

McEWAN’S ALE.
“GAELIC” WHISKY
1 1. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Street, Sydney,
—FOR—*
Mining and Contractors* Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS ASl> GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
:
JEFFREY
Boiler, Stsel and Special CHAINS
HOBART.
—
fiddleys Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
I feELTIWGI i
EVERY
J. £. Ludowici
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
SOLE -A-GKEZCTTS FOE
Labor-Saving Appliances manufactured by JEFFREY MFG. CO-, Ohio, U.S.A*
Chain <& Cable Conveyers, Bucket Elevators, Rock, Lime & Cement Crushers, Ore Htmdling Machinery,
Vibrating Screens for Screening Ores, Quartz, Portland Cement Clinker, Chemicals, Coke, Coal &c„
1
**>
rAlways order
Pinc-Apjpk Brand HAMS® BAC(
The Master wont cat any
other! ”
CHUB* 8
m
Tlationgl)
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security .
Prompt Settlements.
Nsw South WalM Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society) - IT. A. GIBS, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
CO
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
m
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
GHOOM
m
_,A
DAILY
TREAT!
m
m
m
IS
FOR_
L'
TOOHEYS LTD
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
anti CORDIALS.
DAViD STORER » SOWS*
Registered Trade Mark
in Throe Colors—
BLACK, RED, <& BLUE.
"X'OE 3LX&
X^-EtJE IPBOT BSCSHSP-BCiLEtSKft.
Is THE ONLY Absolutely
SAFE Wool-Markina
OR 9
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by All Merchants and Storekeepers.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
ON* THE SCOPS
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever Issued ia Australia.
Three Hundred of " Hop’s ” Pictures, superbly produoed.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
HEL!DON SPA —“Stands ore-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1335. J
[Thursday, September 14,1905.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


new books George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd,
Marriott, Miss Allmere’s Elopement, 3s 6d, post 6d.
M'Lennan, The Highlander in Anecdote and Story, Is,
post 3d.
Brooke, An Eye-Witness in Manchuria, 6s, post 6d.
Thome, Guy, A Lost Cause, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Barton, Sporting Dogs and their Management in Health
and Disease, 9s, post Bd.
Myrtle Reed, Lavender and Old Lace, cheap ed., 3s 6d,
post 6d.
Praed, Maid of the River, 3s 6d,.post Cd.
Dawe, The Grand Duke, 3s fid, post cd
The English Lakes, painted by A. H. Cooper ; Black’s
Beautiful Books, 245, post is.
Borrow, Romany Rye, pocket ed., 2s 6d, post 4d.
Agacy, Correct Bridge, and How to Play It, 2s Cd, post 4d.
Barton, Dentition of the Horse, 2s Cd, p. 4d.
M'Pherson, Meteorology, or the Weather Explained,
Is 3d, post 3d.
tt Cas tlereagh-street, Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London,
THE BULLETIN BOOKS (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughou l
Australasia, or will be forwarded by post (with postage added) from Tiik Bolletik Office, 214
Svdnevj in return for P. 0.0,, postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland.- Editions de luxe of ON THE
HOP (a splendid collection of pictures), and PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“ his best work,” says The AtWum),
2is. each ; boxed and posted, '23s. (A cheaper abridged edition of the lattfer-only, 2s. 6d. , posted 3 . 5 -.
AND GRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTS OF GOLD (cloth, ulus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ,
posted ft*"— —AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. 6d. rposted SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, with portraits), verses by R. Qi*inn, .1. Hebblefchwaite, L. Mack, H. < Ch urc h > ■ ODo vd, j
posted 5s - Trtt BULLETIN RECITER (cloth, illus.), the best Australian recitation-book, 4s. 6d. , posted ss.
MAORILAND (cloth, with portrait), verses by A. H. Adams; 4s 6d. ; sa- —HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, verses by W. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. fid. (posted 3s. od.), paper 2s. 6d. (posted 2s. •)•
THE RED PAGAH, by A. G. Stephens, cloth 6s. (posted 6s. 3d.), paper Ss. 6d. (posted 3s. M.).
OH OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by ‘‘Steele Rudd” (best books of Australian hutpour
cloth illus., 6s. each ; posted, 6s. 6d. THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. M. .posted
SUCH IS LIFE, a real Australian yarn, by “ Tom Collins,” cloth 4s. 6d. ; posted ss. CABTRO 8 LAST SAC
MENTamI u her Steriesby A. Dorrihgton, cloth 2s. 6d. ; posted 3s.—BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H- Morants
Hfe and verses)! Is. ; posted Is. 3d.— A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J. Edmond 6d. ; POsted &L—
-THE LAST OF SIX, stories by E. Favenc, 6d. ; posted Bd. THE BULLETIN POST-CARDS (three new series u
eolLrs) Series lA, PHIL MAY. Series II A, “HOP.” Series IV BACKBLOCKS. Eac h senesmakes ap<*<* of
Twelve assorted cards. Price, Is. per packet; posted Is. Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Street, Sydney, Australia.
mm
FOR INFLUENZA .BRONCHI
ASTHMA,& ALLAFFECTIONS
THETHROAT&LUNGS.ikPR&VA N
Registered.
S OLD By ALL CHEMISTS, //$.
m
CONSUMPTION.
AN IDEM.RENEOY.
Con lain no Cocaine
Or other poisonous aruj
THE GREAT
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY.)
FOR COUGHS . COLDS , SORE THROAT. LOSS OF VOtCE^
Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free on receipt of scamps from the Sole Manufacturer, C. lIUDMH, Zealand.
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States S rie
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W.
THE RED PAGE .
“You got that out of a quotation-book.”
So spake a Sydney Editor to a struggling would-
be author, who, in his fondness for Herrick, had
put three verses of that poet on three different
pages of his work.
“Nobody ever reads Herrick,” continued the
Editor, decisively. “If Herrick were to come to
me to-morrow with a bundle of his verses I would
return them to him right off. .. . What did he
ever write that wasn’t a repetition of something
he had written before ? And, anyhow, what sort
of stuff do you call this?”
Here he closed his eyes behind his spectacles
and began to drone out.
“Some ask’d me where the-er-er the-er-roses—
No. Rubies. Yes, that’s it.
“ Some asked me where the rubies grew,
And nothing did I say ;
But with my finger pointed to
The lips of .J uU-ay.
“And soon —and so on—and so on—it’s always,the
same.”
Thus it was that he bowed the would-be author
out, who, nevertheless, oh going, was in no way
disappointed, seeing that the same fate would
have as certainly befallen Master Herrick.
J*
“ You got that out of a quotation book.”
“ O, man,” answered Dr. Southey in reply to a
similar accusation— 1 ' O, man, whose diligence is
little, whose reading less, and whose sagacity least
of fdi.”
But the aforesaid Sydney Editor is not the only
one; and the next definition of Herrick that I
(it’s no use saying “ Would-be-Author ” any longer)
met with was, “ O, a nice little garden poet.”
And really this was worse still to me, because it
came from a yery acute braid—clear and polished
like a knife.
Still, to dub Herrick merely a garden poet is
altogether against reason. Chaucer, Shakespeare,
Milton, Byron, Swinburne, etc., etc., all make
their allusions to flower-beds and parterres, but X
do not think that any of them can be fairly apos-
trophised as garden poets —and no more can
Herrick.
Perhaps the ornamental inoffensive Ivalendar
may have something to do with it, where very
often the choice of subjects is, of modern neces-
sity, polite, and also with a view to-the display of
a “pretty-pretty” picture in the three-colour
process rather than the actual verses themselves.
Besides, certain minds are only capable of hold-
ing and retaining such rhymes as are of the
“Juli-ay” order, and the sweet little jingling
sound is the only one that will ring out thus
does the clapper fit its metal to the sides of the
bell.
£
People who have read Herrick as thoroughly as
1 have, cannot fail to have enjoyed him—his sim-
plicity, his kindness of heart, his mirth, his
wonderful command of language, and, above all,
bis vitality, that would need a whole battery of the
opposite qualities to keep them in anything like a
■state of subjection.
Who that loves a woman does not feel his blood
leaping in his pulses at lines like these :
See where she comes : and smell how all the street
Breathes vine-yards and pomegranates ; 0 how sweet !
As a fir’d altar is each stone,
Perspiring pounded cynamon ;
The Phoenix nest,
Built up of odours, burneth in her breast.
Hymen, O Hymen ! tread the sacred ground ;
Shew thy white feet and head with Marjoram crown’d:
Mount up t-h.v Flames, and let thy Torch
Display the Bridegroom in the porch,
In his desires
More row’ring, more disparkling than thy fires :
Shew her how his eves do turtle
And roule about, and in their motions burne
■Their balls to Pindars : haste,
Or else to ashes he will waste.
There is very little of the Garden-Poet in that,
and absolutely not a jot of “ Juli-ay.”
Such a picture of Impatience has seldom been
held up to the eyes of the world as the Bridegroom
“ In Itis desires, more tow’ring, more disparkling
than thy fires.”
Modern poetry can’t do; it, and the only nearest
sensation to lie got is in certain kinds of Music
played by especial people.
There is a grand amourous piece I have heard
(composed for the violin by a.Genius whose name
I am unable to spell) in which I think tile whole
of. this delicious agony is again resuscitated.
That man can feel liis way to your .soul and
make-it quiver with the little black dots that h.e
puts on paper. And it is the same, with Herrick.
But, as I said before, the power has passed away
from the present-day poet and only remains with
the musician.
S
Herrick’s imagery is always quaint and beautiful.
This for example—
• Reach with your whiter hands to me .
Some Christ all of the Spring ;
And I, about the cup, shall see '
Fresh lilies 'flourishing,.
Or
Dew sate on J ulia’s haire,
And spangled, too,
Like leaves that laden are
With trembling dew :
As when the beames
Have their reflected light
Daunt by the streams.
Yet neither of these are so good as Spenser when
he says—
And troubled blood thro’ his pale face was seene
To come and goe with tidings from his heart
As it a running messenger had beetle.
Herrick had as well, uncommon with most Eliza-
bethan poets, the particular faculty for picturing
the folk of his time, their habitations, their
dresses, their custofns and superstitions (Now
old enough to be our own true calenders, as Pusses
earc washt are, to tell what change is pcare): just
exactly as he found them, so that, "to-day, if we
were to only go by what we read,' and not use our
eyes when we travel abroad, vve would (for all
that we might find in the pages of our contem-
porary authors) know more of everything about,
people of that period than of anything’of our own.
His well-written description of the open house
commonly kept by richer people in those days,
though too long to give here, is a perfect example
of what I have just stated—The panegerick to Sir-
Lewis Pemberton—. But if the reader will
trouble to look it up, he will arise again from it
with liis lingers at his throat to see if his ruff ’is in
position.
s
The poet's character sketches, told in that
peculiar language which was used in the transla-
tions of the Bible, are always excellent.
Take, for instance, the picture of the scurvy
groom, who, '
(Yirkt with corns) sayes, Sir,
Y’ave dipt too long'd’ th’ vinegar ;
And with our broth, and bread, and bits ; Sir, friend,
Y’ave fared well, pray make an end ;
Two days y’ave larded here ; a third, yee know,
Makes guests and fish snsell strong ; pray goe
You to some other chimney, and there take
Essay of other giblets ; make
You lherry at another’s hearth ; y’ are here
Welcome as thunder to our beere.
What a mixture of vigour and ambition and
love of luxury is there in lines like these :
X sho’d delight to have my Otirles halfe drown’d
In Tyrian Dewes and Head with Roses crown’d,
And once more yet (ere I am laid out dead)
Knock at a Starve with my Exalted Head.
Then again I find a wonderful motion in some
of his -verses -a kind of literary cinematograph.
As in
That flow of gallants which approach
To kiss thy hand from out the coach ;
That fleet of laekeyes, which do run
Before thy swift postilion,
&c., &c., &c., &e., &c., &c.,.&c., &c.
His farewell to Sack is as good!as anything Roman
or Greek, and the man who will set out-to write a
better has got a big task before him—even though
he be a Sydney editor.
Robin was the Poet of Myrtle and Vine-leaves,
and, if lie sang garden-songs, it was only inciden-
tally. But the variety, of subjects and the clever
way in which he accomplished them puts’him in
the very forefront of English lyrical writers, and
it is wrong to stand him in any especial niche
(such as the Garden-Poet). It- is too muoh like
the especialisation of the groeer, the draper, and
the bootmaker, who are all tradesmen, but in
different departments.
Herrick is not a tradesman but a poet, nor is he
a poet of any individual department.
He has written Bacchanalian songs, love songs,
marriage songs, faery fantasies, verses political
and patriotic, pious pieces and 1 even dirges.
Indeed, the collection is so large that it can
hardly fail to be unequal, though, on the whole, it
makes as admirable a book as«could be wished for,
Herrick’s confidence in himself, so evident in
his poetry, and the curses with which he has
endowed his deteriorators, are both common to the
time-at which he wrote,, and Jonson and the rest
are- in the same boat.
Whether they were justified 1 remains, for pos-
terity to say, though it may be that the intellects
judged are far and away superior in every sense
to those that are holding them on trial.
Goe perjur'd man ; and if thou,ere return
To see the Sinall remainders in my Urne :
AVhen thou shalt lauglvat my Religeous dust; ,
And ask, Where’s now the colour, forme and trust
Of Woman’s beauty ? and'with hand more rude
Rifle the flowers which the Virgins strew’d ':
Know, I have pray’d to Furie, that some wind
May blow my ashes up,.and;strike thee blind.
N.S.W.
M. McC.
SPASMS
?
Know ye the land where red hats and red houses
Are emblems of needs that are felt in their clime }
Where beetroot with lobster insanely carouses-
To melt ye to moaning', or madden to crime ?
!
OSUBtTRBS whose sins are as scarlet!
0 city encritnsoned with crimes !
What vile and monotonous varlet
Has fashioned the hats of your times
llow can you he soothed by the slumber
That broods on a time-payment bed,
Whose architects roof you numher-
Less crude shades of red ?
! !
Seven colours the sages give rainbows,
And their tints too are seveuty times seven.
Yet you would Ikivo damsels to gain beaux
By one hue of all under heaven :
Your sanguine outshining the sunset,
Your carmine stained deeper than blood, '
Make incomprehensible onset:
—I don’t think they should.
!! ! '
Aurora Australis, the maiden
Whose blush was so modest and meek.
With horror her headgear has laden
And ceased to be green (so to speak):
No milliner frightful affrays her,
She flames to th’ incarnadined sky,
And angrily bids the rash gazer
Again wipe his eye.
Ml! -
By tarantulas ruddy that bit you.
And crazed you, and left you for red ;
By tomatoes ripe, squashy, that smit you
And showered their pulp on your head ;
Ry the Woman of Scarlet, whose glories
Appear as a prevalent pest,
O tempora ! O astra l O mores 1
O give us a rest.
ACROSS THE HARBOUR.
WHEN first I came. to.live in North Syd-
ney, I felt that I had changed my place
of residence for the better. The noise
of the eastern suburb, from which I had
moved, was no longer in my ears. Then, too, I
had got away from the groove. Every man falls
into the groove sooner or later. In the morning
he goes out of his house and into town. He
catches the same tram, sees’the same faces, passes
through the same streets, and comes in time to sit
in the same office which has been his abode for
years. In the evening he reverses the routine.
In time, he becomes a machine, moving automati-
cally through life, and listless of any desire to
vary the tame, drab mill-round in which his feet
seem to have been immutably set. At times,
however, and before he reaches the utterly stag-
nant stage, he does some wild things, perhaps. It
is the desire to assert one’s individuality, as much
as it is anything else, that makes one a Bohemian,
a speculator on the Stock Exchange or at Tatter-
sall’s, or a hustler hustling around the world. Every
man loves to prove to himself that he has a body
and soul of his own, and that that body and soul
are something different from those which make
up the spiritual and physical composition of
John Smith, his next-door neighbour. It is not
because John Smith is anything that is not admir-
able and worthy of imitation. It is because one
objects to being a pea in a dish of peas.
Jt
It was some such thought as this which impelled
me to cross the water. I had grown tired of the
sameness of things, tired of seeing a car-load of
John Smiths every morning on their way to the
. city, and tired of seeing them again on their way
home in the evening. I confess that the monotony
of the daily process so afflicted me that I took
various means to escape from it. Some mornings
I would let the tram go by and ride on top of a
’bus. On other occasions 1 would breakfast early
and walk-in all the way, taking different streets at
different times, so as to introduce the element of
novelty into the proceeding. Nevertheless, Custom
lay on me as heavy as lead, and do what I might I
could not escape the grip of the Groove. At
length it dawned on me that an escape was pos-
sible. What if we saw a thing of beauty—beauty
that never remained the same, but changed morn-
ing after morning and evening after; evening,
giving out a new light and loveliness at every call
of the sun—what if we saw this ? Would life he
still a tame round of sameness ? Surely not.
And here, within reach of me, the thing of
oeailty, with its saving influence, lay. I decided
to put the harbour between me and the city ; for
though a man’s feet may wear a groove in a pave-
ment, he cannot leave any trace of his going or
coming oh the face of the water. To free one’s
self from a groove is something, and I think most
people who live across the harbour will agree with
me that no trip on/the ferry is altogether like any
other trip ; that,some incident or scene, novel
or interesting Or beautiful, is offered upon every
fresh journey to those who have eyes to see. Some-
times it is a great incoming or outgoing ocean
liner that provides the novelty. Sometimes it is
a school of porpoises at play. Often a sunset
endows the water with ruby and opal light. Some-
times swirling smoke, caught and rifted by the
wind, screaming whistles, and a “southerly”
tossing the waves till their white sides show,
make the scene a frantic one. One blue morning
I saw the face of the harbour covered for acres with
a host of white butterflies. It looked like a field of
fluttered pansies.
Then, too, night is not without enchant-
ment. As the ferry-boats pass in mid-stream
their lights, flashing in the intervening
water, make it a heaving, rippling bosom of
sparkling jewels. Sitting on the upper deck, one
may see a ruby or ap emerald gliding through the
darkness around some point, or down some
bay. He may know it for the light, star-
hoard or port, of a moving steamer, but
that knowledge will not make it seem, any
the less beautiful than a ruby or an emerald.
Is there need to say any word in praise
of those nights when the moon is full? The
silver on the water and the .mystery of white light
on the foreshores make the harbour quite another
place than that which we see by day. Even the
black wharves and the shapely coal-ships partake
of the weirdness and wonder with which the white
magician up above has clothed the scene.
It.is on dark nights, however, that the element
of weirdness has fullest play. Perhaps the whistle
of your boat is sounded, and you wait for an
answer. A cine is gi veil, and presently another blast
is blown. Then out of the night, to port or star-
board,, comes a reply, inarticulate at first, but
presently broadening into a roar, fierce, minatory
and reckless Your skipper is a careful man, and
is taking no chances* and immediately the bell in
the engine-room sounds, and your boat slackens to
half-speed. You go forward and peer into the
night. At first you see a white light. It looks
to. your unaccustomed eyes like a lamp on one of
tiie “ Sfior.e” heights, or like a star near setting.
Then you see a green light or a red light, and
know that it is a mast-head lantern and no star
that you have been looking at. Presently you
come close, and are able to make out the low,
black hull of a collier inward or outward hound;
I(s captain may be the most humane- man in the
world, careful alike of life and property, but that
does not apply to his ship, f t will seem to you
that the low, black hull creeping along with its
lack of lit ports, and seeming to carry the dark-
ness with it, as an assassin carries his cloak, is
bent on no honest mission. It may be you will
remember an old picture of an Italian city by
night, and of a hireling, disguised in a domino
and armed with a dagger, stealing down its streets.
&
In Studying the difference of temperament in
the people of Sydney and Melbourne, I do not
think that anyone has taken the influence of
Sydney harbour into consideration. Melbourne
is Said to be a more business-like centre. There is
an alertness, a hurry, a feverish movement in the
streets of Melbourne which one looks for in vain
in our own streets. Melbourne has a climate
which is not comparable with that of Sydney.
She is frequently a City of Dreadful Night.
Therefore, the superior energy of her people
cannot be attributed to a superiority of climate.
Melbourne has few places of rest and recreation,
where men may breathe in ozone and energy, such as
those which Sydney possesses. Melbourne is emi-
nently a commercial city. Sydney is a commercial
city, but it is a home as well. Melbourne, with
her broad streets, her rectangles and' her Yarra,
is not a city in which one can dream and be easy.
On the other hand, Sydney, with her narrow
streets, her curves and her harbour, imposes the
moo'd, of Italy on even the most matter-o Mart of
her citizens, and makes him sluggish and not a
trifle lazy. Of course, this may he all fancy, but
I have seen stolid, dry-as-dust city men put down
a paper where they have been reading of the
operations of the stock and share market in order
to gaze across the Harbour at. a sunset sky. One
may not eat the lotos and be other than a dreamer,
and it seems to me that the Harbour is slowly en-
riching the souls and colouring the natures of those
who dwell around it. A sight of it, morning and
evening, leads one out of the land of Egypt and
House of Bondage.
N.s.W.
R.Q.
ROR RT HERRICK.
Then shall he read that flowre of .mine
Enclosed within a ehristall shrine :
A primrose next ;
A piece, then of a higher text:
For to beget
In me a more transcendant heate'
Than that insinuating' lire
Which crept into each aged Sire
When the faire Hellen from her eyes,
Shot forth her loving: Sorceries :
At which I’le reare
Mine aged limbs above my chaire.;
. . And hearing it,
Flutter and crow as in a fitt
Of fresh concupiscence, and cry
No lust there ’& like to Poetry..
RORERT HERRICE.
Garden-Poet.
THE SACRIFICE.
White for the grave, strange-dyed and sable-dressed,
Is this my love so quietly doth lie ?
The sunlight of her - sweetnessher dear love,
All that she gave falls to the earth to die.
Love’s utter sacrifice, life’s old long pain...
Lost, lost 1 and shall this ever live again,
O. God of pity ?
White for the grave—all grace, all glory gont-l
My lore was young, my love was sweet and warm,
And so wc dreamed as quiet voyagers...
Most hateful wreck ! too cruel strife and storm l
The grave will cry its hunger every hour ;
But oh, to spoil the glory of a flower !
Why, why, 0 God of pity I
Yet in. her rest she shall not see grey hairs
Nor children trampling on the holy, things-;
Though every day be dark, still in the dark
Love looks for light, the old hope climbs and. clings
Up through all tears... In the black gloom and pain
My torn heart shrieks, ‘' Give me my love again,
0, God. of pity!”
VIC
S.N.
An accidental omission spoilt last week’s refer-
ence to the “ God-forgotten election.” It was
Pat M‘Dormer who, proposing W. Blasses for
Parliament,, said :
I don’t, nay that William Blazes is a perfect out-an’-outer,
I don’t say ha have the lapiin’, for he never had the luck ;
I don’t say he have the logic, or the gift of gab, like
Spouter,
I don’t say he have the practice—vm I say he hate ths
ri.mi 1 : .
Now, in relation to local Art Reform, it appears
that Minister O’Conor have n’t the pluck.
“Spring Poems” afid other outstanding matter*will
be settled in next issue.
A.G.S.


m
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
STrXJONrESY.
FUR
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, -ml
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., it*.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS for SPORTING COODS and TOBACCO
Postage on 1 Bat,
Is. N.S.W. ;
Is. Bd. iriter-State.
MICK
SIMMONS.
m,
MICK
SIMMONS.
MEN’S BATS.
BUSSEY’S All Cane, ss; Cane and Rubber, 6s 6d ; DEMON' DRIVERS, 2is, 25s _
CLAPSHAW’S All Cane, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s Od ; Cane and Rubber, 15s 6d ; Spiral
Spring-, 21s
AYRE’f ' "
WISDEN’I
EXCELLER, 21s ; Selected, 25s . ■
COBBETT’S All Cane 10s 6d,11s Cd ; STAR DRIVER, 20s ; JUBILEE DRIVER, 22s Od
WARSOP’S All Cane, 12s 6d ; Cane and Rubber, 16s, 18s 6d ; IMPROVED CONQUEROR,
20s 25s
SYKE’S All Cane, 8s 6d; “ Al” Cane and Rubber, 14s 6d; YORKSHIRE DRIVERS,
21s, 25s
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S All Cane, 8s 3d, 8s Od, 11s, 14s 6d ; Cane and Whalebone,
18s, 19s, 19s Od
BARTLETT’S All Cane, 12s Od, 15s ; “ ALL ENGLAND,” 18s; REPERCUSIVE, 19s Od
DARK’S All Cane, 10s Od ; LORD’S DRIVER, 17s 6d ; CORK HANDLE, 24s
NICOLL’S Automatic Handles, 15s 6d, 18s 6d ; Rubber or Chamois Covered, 22s
BRYAN’S “ PRESIDENT,” 18s ; “ PRESIDENT ” SELECTED, 21s
G. G. HEARNE’S All Cane, 14s Od ; “ QUICK SPRING,” 22s 0d ; Selected, 27s 6d
GUNN & MOORE’S All Cane, 8s 6d ; “CANNON,” 21s; W.G. Selected, 255; “AUTO-
GRAPH,” 27s
STUART SURRIDGE All Cane, 13s 6d, 17s Od ; RAPID DRIVERS, 16s 6d, 21s
LILLY WHITE & FROWD’S All Cane, 16s 6d, 19s ; SPECIAL DRIVER, 22s 6d
SPECIALLY SELECTED CANE and DOUBLE RUBBER, 12s 6d
Sizes 3
HALF CANE .. 3/0
ALL CANE.. ; .. 4/-
SELECTED .. 6/6
YOUTHS’ BATS.
4 5 6 Sizes
4/- 4 9 5/3 PLAIN ..
1/-
5/3 6/-
9/6 10/6
POLISHED 1/- 1.3
3
1/3
1/6
4
1/6
2/-
5
2/-
2/6
7
4/-.
SIX SEAM
LEATHER BALLS.
PRACTICE, s Joz., Dd ; MATCH, 6£oz., Is 3d.
Standard Match, 6Joz'., 2S 6d.
Extra Special, Gut Sewn, 3s 6d.
The above Balls are good value for use on
turf wickets.
“M.S.” Special Match, Gut Sewn, 4s 6d, 6s 3d.
For use on hard wickets these Balls cannot
be equalled in price or quality.
DUKE’S Practice, s|oz., 5s ; P.K.D., Gs 3d.
Match,. sJoz., 5s 6d ; Best, 7s 6d.
WISDEN’S Match, 4s 3d ; Crown, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
COMPOS. Bovs, 3d, 6d, 9d, 1/- each.
Men’s, 1/-, 1/8, 2 3, 3/-, 3/6, 4/3 each
Postage on 1 Ball, 3d.
■
STUMPS WITH BAILS.
Men’s Brass Top, Steel Shod, 5/9, 7/9, 8/0 set
Men’s RevolvinyTop, Steel Shod, 10/0, 12/6 set
Men’s Ash and Blackwood, 2/-, 3/-, 3/9 set
Youths, Cd, 1/-, 1/6, 2/6, 3/-, 4/6 set
I»EG GUARDS.
Men’s White Canvas, 4/6 pair
Men’s Tan (continuous straps) 5/11, 7/9pr.
Men’s Skeleton Tan, 10/6 pair
Youths’ White, 4/6 ; Tan, 5/- pair
GAUNTLETS.
Men’s Buff, 3/11 ; Tan, 5/-pair
Men’s Gold Cape, 6/6, 9/6 pair
Men's, with Black Rubber, palm, 7/6, 9/0 pair
Men’s Black Rubber, padded finger tips, 11/-, 14/6 pair
BATTING GLOVES.
Men’s Buff, felt protection, 4/0 pair
Men’s Buff, rubber protection, 5/0, 6/0, 7/0 pair
Patent Surry Shield, 4/- each
•FTTT.T. illustratkd list free.
5 10
1
The Great
MONTE
CARLO
GAME.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments ■ (tested by
expert).
Price—■
10/6
POST
FREE.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
m
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7 s 6d,
11s Gd, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, ISs
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best),; 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
2s Gd, 3s 6d each
be&&>
36
Hi
MaNSICAP>
5/-
STANbAftb
7/3
Ascot
2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. Is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size . ,6s6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s Cd
A 1 .. ~. ... 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung' .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Eenshaw .. ..13s Cd
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s (id
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger's grey reg-. 9s Od
Slazenger’s cov. .. 10s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. Ss Gd
Ayres’ cov. reg-. .. 11s Gd
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s Gd
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.VV. ; Is Sd Inter-State.
Boys’ doth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Soz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Soz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “ O.B.B.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, Its 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set: 60z.,
l~2s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Soz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 215,.25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Soz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
lllustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free
£3
Bn
mm
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
m
Folding Orchard Cun,
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g. side lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length over all 38Jin,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9 N.S. W.;
3/2 Interstate.
35s
We can now
supply these
g-uns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
The Celebrated
fitted with Sporting- Bear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Actio”, lSiri. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
ho t 2 hort, Long-, or Extra Long- Oartridg-es.
m
"THE MAINE
Pifle
<Sheu/ing Pif/e A parr.
PRBCE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
lteal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
m
“The Reliable,”
SSiss £6 12s 6d
HOLLIS & SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “Siemen’s” steel barrels, both choke, side
lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeiey-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
Greener cross-bolt, neatlv engraved, chambered for 2jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED EOT?
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States .
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
£l2 12s
MICK SIMMONS.
mm
26, 100 ; 21/-, 1000.
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre, fires 10
shots in four seconds, weight
s * lb •• £4 10s.
Postage: N.S.W., 2/-; Inter-State, 3/8.
MICK SIMMONS.
m
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gaug'e, top
lev.er, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end, Postage:
pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. .. ns W
; Inter-State
MICK SIMMONS.
m
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
15s,
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, about 31b.
Postage : N.S.W., 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V
Sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb.
Postage, Is 3d N.S.VV. ; 2s 2d Inter-State.
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3Jlb. Postage : N.S.W., 1/6 ; Inter-State, 2/8.
18/6
16/6
m
m
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges .
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
$lOO $lOOO
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical .. .. Is Od 9s 6d
22 Short
22 Long 1
22 Long Rifle
22 Extra-Long
.. Is Id 10s Od
.. Is Sd 12s Od
.. Is 6d 13s Od
.. 2s Od 18s 0d
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
XdupXs ‘SNO
I


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
and Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
SINGLE ROOM: For One Guest, 2/6 per day, or 15/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests, 5/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF.
SINGLE RCOM : For one Guest (with Full Board), 6/- per day; or 30/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or JE3 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR, HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance : MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
mmm
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES Tht Bnt £ ™ n * ordy of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id,
Post Free.
ENO’
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sot Capsule marked EMB’S - FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you baro a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fnparad only by J. G. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT 1 WORKS, LONDON, ENO.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists , &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR R ASS MUSS E N^specianst
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure -tine Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Hrain and Nerves*
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. He-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency., and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CUBE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Soros. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
Typhoid's After Effects
A Relapse and a Radical Cure.
Th* Ca.se of
Mrs. T. VAUGHAN,
(By a Local Reporter.)
Probably many who have hitherto
plaved the onlooker’s part have been
sharply taught by experience that the
trials of life possess an arm of far-
reaching propensities, and in such in-
stances, where a personal interest Pas
been aroused, much pleasure will be
found in reading the conversation
which took place between our repre-
sentative and Mrs. Teresa \ augha.ll, of
Mo. 39 Elizabeth-street, Camperdown,
who said . .
“The first sickness I ever had in my
life came to me six years ago,, and it
was a very severe illness, too.
“What was it ?” asked the writer.
“It was an attack of typhoid that
had laid me low, and i had taken a
turn for the better and was getting on
fine when I made the mistake of leav-
ing my bed too soon. A relapse was
the consequence, and, of course, 1 had
to take to my bed again. I believe 1
was worse then than before, for the
pains which came to my head were
frightful. Those in the house told me
that often I was quite delirious, so
that will give you an idea of how bad
1 was. This all happened about twelve
months before I came back to live in
this house, where 1 was born, and re-
sided till I got married at the age of
eighteen, when 1 left it and did not
return till live years ago. Now that i
am getting up in years, it is so nice
to be back in the old place again ; but
I’m going away from my story. Well,
I had been losing and losing flesh till
at last there was no more to waste
away, nothing being left of me but a
portion of my former self. My stom-
ach was so weak that nothing would
stay down. No, indeed. All I could
take was a little water with either
brandy or milk added, and the general
thing was that as soon as it was down
a terrible retching started, and up it
came again.”
“What an exhausting effect that must
have had ?”
“You’re right, indeed ; it did. I was
really as w r eak as a baby, and as for
even getting better—well, it was the
last thing 1 thought of. Everybodv
who saw me thought that my case w r as
positively hopeless, and I’m sure I
thought so, too ; but the old saying
that ‘while there is life there is hope'
proved to be a true one in my case. It
was when I was so ill that 1 couldn’t
possibly have been worse —scarcely able
to move myself, in fact, that a friend
of mine, a lady about seventy, told me
what a grand thing Clements Tonic
was, and that it would be sinful not
to give it a trial. Well, what could I
say ? Nothing had done me any good
so far, so could I expect this one re-
maining rpmedv to benefit me ? I asked
myself. My friend’s persistent ‘Give it
a trial’ answered the question for me,
so I sent for some Clements Tonic that
day. I don’t suppose you’ll believe
this, but it is perfectly true, the verv
first day 1 took Clements Tonic the
retching stopped, and if that didn’t
make me joyful nothing would. Oh ! 1
was so thankful, for-1 knew then that
so long as I persevered with Clements
Tonic there was still a hope for me
left. My friends were almost spell-
bound with amazement, and when I
told them that Clements Tonic had al-
so created a feeling of hunger within
me they could hardly believe their
ears, they said. But T had more still
to boast about, for this latest medi-
cine of mine had brought me such ge-
neral relief from pain that it was as
much as . I could do to realise that 1
was the same woman who so recently
had endured such a great amount of
torture. My chest had been very badly
affected with a weightiness that was
almost unbearable, but in a week or
two I was quite free from it."
“When you had taken some solid
food what were your feel'ihgs like ?”
“Well, at first I did not feel too
comfortable, but after a while, and by
taking Clements Tonic regularly, the
overburdened sensations passed away,
and eventually ray stomach became so
strong that L could eat anything, and
never have the least unpleasantness to
contend with afterwards. Why, the
agony I used to endure from windy
spasms was something terrible ; but
Clements Tonic eradicated them for
good. Several times a day, too, l was
subject to fits of uncontrollable giddi-
ness —the room seemed to be turning
round and round, and then everything
would go dark for a space ; but even
to this trouble Clements Tonic proved
to be my staunch and only friend. My
eyes used to feel much larger than they
should have been—so heavy, and so de-
fective in sight, too —and you only
wanted to catch a glimpse of the
whiteness of my tongue to understand
what a disordered state my internal
organs were in. And what a horrible
taste I had in the mouth ! As though
1 had been drinking gall, even after I
had rinsed it out with vinegar and
water, which 1 often did. But there ;
what a small matter Ch ments Tonic
made of these things, besides which it
soothed me so well that I soon got a
sound rest every night without any of
the fearful dreams that used to ter-
rorise me.”
“Was it long before you were able to
do your work again ?”
“Ah ! some time elapsed before I
could get about very actively : but it
all came in good time. When I got up
first if I went a little way down the
street, or in the park, for a short
walk, I’d soon have to sit down till I
recovered a bit, and then I’d get home
as soon as I possibly could. But the
strengthening influences of Clements
Tonic were so great that by-and-bye I
could walk three or four miles, and not
feel exhausted, and from the time I
was cured I have not had a day’s ill-
health since.”
“¥ou look very healthy, and not of
a nervous temperament, are you ?”
“Not at all ; but that reminds me.
Oh, dear ! I was almost forgetting to
tell you. Why. nervottsness was the
worry of my life in those days, and
would you believe that I actually
warned my people to always speak
when they came in, for if I turned
round and saw anybody standing in
the room, I would nearly drop. And
how my heart used to palpitate? And
there were pains around that organ,
too ; so you’ll see how lucky. I am to
be alive and well to-dav, for when I
started on Clements Tonic. I was as
near to the pjortals of death as I could
stand. I earnestly hope this account
of my recovery will come under the
notice of many delicate people, so
please publish it in whatever way you
think best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, TERESA VAUGHAN, of No. 39 Eliza-
>th-street, Camperdown, in the State of New
outh Wales, - Commonwealth of Australia, do
slemnly and. sincerely declare that I Mve
.refully read the annexed document, cousist-
g of five folios; and consecutively numbered
um one to five, and that it contains and
a true and faithful account of my illness
id cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
ins my full permission to publish in any
ay my ’statements—which I give voluntarily,
itbout receiving any -payment: and I make
lis solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
g the same to bo 'true, and by virtue of
ie provisions of the Oaths Act,. 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown this
fifth dnv of September, one thousand nine
hundred” and four, before me,
C. S. MAT/LETT, J.P.
Ladles’&Oent.’s WATCHES & CHAINS
Birthday RINGS,
Brooches. Curb Chain Bracelets—FßEE. A
Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs from to
£lO. Don’t throw your motley away. If you want
a watch that will equal for time any solid gold watch
made, send 11s your name and address at once, and f
we will send you s boxes ot our famous Mew Life Jtilec-
tine Vegetable Pills to sell at 1- a box—a grand remedy
and cure for all weak conditions of the blood, kidney
and liver trouble, a cure for constipation and weak
nervous disorders, a tonic and a life builder. Out-
pills are genuine, and are carefully manufactured
1 from the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
| Send us your order at once, and we will send you the
8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you send us our
money, 8/-, and we will send you your prize. We are
' giving these watches and other prizes to quickly iu-
| troduce our pills, and when you receive your premium
we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand opportunity to get a fine Watch and
cnain Free. Send us your Name and Address at once. You take no risk,
i ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., Ash St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I **o
I
em
m
m
ARE YOU BALD?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I guarantee that
CAFILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capitxa. 2/6 a bottle,
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 104 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W,


m
Why not loolc
young ? There’s
genuine pleas-
ure in holding
back Father
Time fif-
teen or
twenty
years. You
can do it
' easily with
Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, for it
gives all that deep
and rich look to the
hair which belongs
to young life.
Ayers
Hair Vigor
You know the story—how good
Queen Bess, pointing to the beautiful
hair of a peasant girl, said, “ There’s a
real royal crown. I would trade my
golden one for it.” That was long ago.
Now you can have a “real royal crown”
of your own, simply by using Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It makes the hair grow
thick and long and stops it falling
out.
When your hair is rich and heavy,
and when the closest inspection fails
to detect a single gray hair, you will
certainly look a great deal younger,
and you will be much better satisfied
with yourself, too. Isn’t that so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Tbis
Trade
Mark
AERTEX
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO .
75 King Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
NIGHT
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says : " ‘ Viyella ’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
m
CONGREVES
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
OP ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price Oca.. Poet Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
e
RothwelTs lw?
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane*
Manufacturers of Masonlo
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £1 is. [B.
a'
“For
I have used Bonningtok’o
Ir.isH iloss for Coughs
and Golds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINGTON’S”
m
VISITORS TO SYDNEY.
TECIE
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, Government House,
Circular Quay (the landing-place of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and within two minutes’ walk of
G.P.O. It is most elegantly furnished
\throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted ihr ugh-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies’ Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF
BACK ROOMS - - - from £2 2s. Weekly
FRONT ROOMS - - from £3 3s. Weekly
JAHES JACKSON, Proprietor iLate Western Australia and Queensland).
9
m
IS
tftO
{/
md -/add d/ia&tt d
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
September.
There’s a clarion call in the brightening days
When the north wind wakes the city—
An echo of magpie roundelays
Preluding the season of love and song,
And winding the river banks along,
There’s a summer sunshine of wattle haze
When the north wind wakes the city.
There’s an undertone in the wind that tells
Of a far-off fairy summer,
In the streets where the dust cloud whirls and
swells
It murmurs of brown leaf-scented ground,
With the sweet blue shadows scattered round,
Where flax flowers dangle their dainty bells
In the far-off fairy summer.
And the king o’ the winds, exultant, free,
New born to a life of beauty,
Sweeps down from the north in a savage glee
Grown mad with the joy of its mighty wings,
And still of the distant hills it sings,
New called from their winter sleep to be
New born to a life of beauty.
Young blood leaps hot to the fever height
When the north wind wakes the city,
Life’s cup brims o’er and the wine is bright—
O sweetheart mine ! drink deep with me
Of our life—drink deep and fearlessly,
A draught to the Spring—to the year’s delight
When the north wind wakes the city !
VIC.
MACM.
Rubaiyat of Fame.
In youth I dreamed most splendidly of Fame,
And worshipped this or that exalted name ;
My spirit soared’above the loathly world,
And oft in frenzied glory leapt like flame.
I vowed I’d be a soldier-knight of old—
My sword would never for base pelf be sold ;
The white rose of a blameless life I’d wear;
The Right would find in me a champion bold.
Statecraft anon within my firmament
Hung like the bow Which God in Heaven hath bent,
Or like the sun that scorns all lesser lights;
An orator I was from Heaven sent.
Then wandering still in fields of fair renown,
As journalist I hoped to win a crown ;
The Press through me new dignity should gain—
And Wrong should shrink and wither at my frown.
My soul’s desire to Poesy arose—
In strenuous verse I’d fight Truth’s cunning foes;
My winged words would be a clarion call,
And kindred souls round me their ranks would
close.
Alas ! my poor illusions all have flown,
And Pessimism claims me for its own ;
The world has lost for me its roseate hue,
And I am sadder now, but wiser grown.
Our glaring sun has tarnished all the lace
That once for us the soldier’s coat did grace,
And at our doughty knights men dare to smile ;
These old-time idols are in parlous case.
The glory in like manner fades away
From statesmanship in our degenerate day;
Blatant, banal, our politicians strut
The public stage in asinine array.
And literature ? Why swink in lonely den,
Unknown, unseen, mistrusted of all men ;
The thorniest gradus ad Parnassum this,
To chronicle small beer with weary pen ?
And finally, dear brethren, Poesy—
Ah well, some day, perhaps—it yet may be;
But up to date my fame is all go come,
And my best years are falling fast from me.
VIC.
LIONEL COLLONNA.
The Preaching Devil.
When I lay sick and lonely,
With hot and throbbing head,
There came a Preaching Devil
Who sat beside my bed.
His voice at first was gentle ;
He spake in accents low
Of dear old friends forgotten,
And days of long ago.
And softly, very softly,
The fiend reminded me
Of broken vows and pledges,
And bygone infamy.
A spell of evil magic
He cast upon my brain,
And, in a glowing vision,
I saw my youth again.
My youth that swore, high-hearted,
Some day to plant sublime,
Its banner on the proudest
And tallest tower of Time.
My youth with its ideals,
Its heart so fond and true,
And all its foolish longing
For gallant deeds to do.
And then the Fiend relentless
Another vision showed—
A fair ideal shattered
And trampled on the road !
Whereat he whispered softly :
“ Repentance is in vain.
The chances that have vanished
Will never come again.”
Then, when my soul seemed sinking
Beneath its load of sin,
An angel drew the curtains—
And let God’s morning in.
N.S.W.
V.J.D.


Senator Higgs
is the guardian of Australia’s
interests ; and the people who
use
Argus Sauce
are the guardians of its repu-
tation, and will not allow any
other brand to be palmed off
on them.
Argus Sauce is made in
Australia—that should make you
try it. Once you use it you won’t
have time for any other sauce.
Send for Free Sample to—
BLOGG BROS.,
24-38 Spencer St., Melbourne.
w
THE HAPPY MEDIUM.
m- Not Too Strong, but Just Strong Enough,
LAXATINE
THE PEERLESS
APERIENT.
THE LOZENGE
LAXATiV*.
If you are feeling run down, depressed, and out of sorts generally, try
LAXATINE before anything else. The result be a speedy
restoration to good health and happiness. LAXATINE is not a
violent purgative, but a mild aperient. Pleasant to take. Made up
in lozenges like lollies.
All Chemists sell Laxa+ine. OH-IE SHILLING Per Bex.
\"3NI
& DIGESTIVE TABi
VE6ESALIB
| TABLE SALT
I WHICH IS SALT
= With Vegetable Virtues.
| DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
E USE IT WHEN COOKING
E VEGETABLES instead of
E OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Of Leading Storekeepers
Wholesale:
E VEGESALIS Co., 2, Tower Royal, London, E.C.
Z ENGLAND.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines 4ft Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, 4c., do*
Sole Aoent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St, Sydney.
NESTLE’S MILK S
THE WORLD’S STANDARD QUALITY.
41 Nestle’s Milk Food
FOR. CHILDREN.
~The ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHERS* MILK.
4?h-
-& I?
■**&&*■' .'M
®s&
iSt
%*»»
jt
*
r4B
MM
<§s
H
M
VtOHKs
yIWXX.
55?: -gs-M :
Goodlet and Smith’s Cement, Brick and Terra Cotta Tile Works, Granville, N.S.W., two buildings of
which are roofed with Ruberoid Roofing.
RUBEROID ROOFING has never been sold under
any other brand than the one so well known to
the world. Ruberoid Roofing has no connection
with any other roofing. The genuine is stamped
RUBEROID every 4ft. of the roll.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
Sydney and Brisbane.
MELBOURNE -
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE -
LAUNCESTON ■
IHBART - -
IN OTHER STATES:
Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
A. W. Sandford & Co.
- J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
The Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency Co., Ltd.
- - - - - - William Crosby 8c Co
Messrs, Goodlet and Smith's
... OPINION OF ...
RUBEROID ROOFING,
%
Granville, Sept. 3rd, 1904.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —We have much pleasure in informing
you we had occasion to re-roof one of our large
sheds in connection with our Cement Works at
Granville, and decided to try Ruberoid. This
proved satisfactory, so that we have commenced a
second one almost as large. We consider this a
good material for roofing purposes, and predict a
large business will be effected, not only in N.S.W.,
but throughout Australia, owing to its superior
qualities for roofing and being easily applied.
Yours faithfully,
GOODLET & SMITH, Ltd.,
A. Copeland. '


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yon. 26.-No. 1335.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1905.
Prick 6d.
OPENING THE MISSION.
Speaking at Sydney City Mission, the other day, Mr. G. H. Reid suggested that “missions should be sent to the fashionable quarters of Darling Point, where they are much wanted.” —News Item .
G.H.R.: “Dearly beloved sistern, for my discourse at this gathering to-day will be: ‘And Ananias fell down.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office’ Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
llow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Marti and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson A Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brevier and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai .— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. xlUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“ Posters ” will be attached to agents’ parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they will be displayed.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1905.
SOME ASPECTS OF THE IMMIGRATION
QUESTION.
The announcement made by ex-Premier Watson,
leader of the Australian Labor party, that he is
prepared to agree to a modification of the law
which prohibits the introduction of immigrants
under contract, is the most interesting political
event of the week. Presumably in this matter
J. 0. Watson speaks for the Labor party in
general, and, assuming that to be so, there is
naturally some wonderment as to what is coming
next. The anti-contract labor clause in Australian
legislation is a mild and toned-down replica of the
law of Canada and the United States, though if
it is a bad clause that fact doesn’t excuse it. It
has been declared by the crowd of blatant Tory
ruffians who scream about the alleged “exclusion”
(sometimes they call it “ imprisonment”) of the Six
Hatters, who were neither excluded nor imprisoned,
to be such a clause as is to be found nowhere else on
earth, which statement only tends to show that
the lamented Ananias left a large family behind
him, and that SAPriiiRA was a mother in Israel
and kept up the birth-rate. It is familiarly
alluded to as a disgrace to Australia, and, in a
sense, it is. Australia requires at all times a law
which will annul every contract by which any
person is imported to work for less wages, longer
hours, or under worse conditions than pre-
vail in this country. It requires a law against
the influx of colored people, lunatics, diseased
persons, arid individuals of bad character. And
if Australia is going to remain as it is—a low-
tariff country, which imports nearly all its
manufactured goods, which has few skilled
industries, which lives by exporting raw mate-
rials and borrowing, and which is dominated by
that Foreign-trade gang which regards every
Australian manufacturer as a criminal and every
Australian manufacturing industry as a thing to
be suppressed by all the lies, slanders and mean
devices that can be invented—if Australia is going
to remain what it is, then it probably also requires
a general law against the importation of contract
labor. For the kind of Australia that J OE Cook
and Bkuce Smith aim at is not likely to com-
mence new manufacturing industries, and any
pretence that it requires to import skilled men
under agreement to found new industries is mostly
hypocrisy in that sort of country.
But if there is to be a new Australia—a live pro-
gressive Australia, building up new industries by
Protection as Canada, the United States, Japan,
Germany, and Argentina are doing—then the con-
tract labor clause should go. It is provided, of
course, under the present statute, that men may be
brought into Australia under agreement for the
purpose of starting new manufactures, or for
service in existing manufactures where the local
supply of skilled artisans is insufficient ; but if
this country intends to be the live community it
should be, it requires to import about 200,000 new
white artisans to establish several hundred new
industries, and that kind of Australia would
hardly have time to fill in the papers required
under the present statute. Moreover, if Aus-
tralia is prepared to adopt High Protection, and
manufacture for itself instead of importing—if it
goes in systematically for breaking up its big
estates so as to make all its good land available for
settlement, and if its legislation is systematically
directed against land and money monopolies
—in such a case it should be hundreds of
years before it requires to shut its door
against any white man especially any
white man of British race—who is decently
educated, intelligent, willing to work, and sound
in mind and body. Provided Australia becomes
a self-supporting land, there is as good a chance
of work, wages, and comfort for the toiler
if there were 120,000,000 consumers to support
120,000,000 producers as if there were 4,000,000
consumers to support 4,000,000 producers. And
in the former case the country could defend itself,
whereas in the latter it couldn’t. In the former
case the present Australian debt would be about
£2 per head, while in the latter case it would be
£6O. Also, in the former case, the cost of govern-
ment would be much less per head ; 1000 people
on 10 square miles require far less expensive
government than 1000 people spread over 1000
square miles. As regards the supply of food, clothes,
and the comforts of civilised life, the increase
of population should, in a decently-governed
country, make things no worse, while, in other
respects, it should make things infinitely better.
All over the world there is the same invariable
proportion of one producer, or possible producer,
to one consumer. If only the Australian producer
determines to produce, and to do it under rational
conditions, then it will be better for him in every
way that he should number 120,000,000 than
4,000,000. But if he is going to keep on import-
ing instead of manufacturing, the situation is dif-
ferent. Australia’s present 4,000,000 people may
live by borrowing money, and growing wool, and
digging up gold, and by a few crude industries
like that, but 8,000,000 people probably couldn't,
and 40,000,000 would starve in a horrible fashion,
and 120,000,000 would be a world’s tragedy,
and would probably fall back into cannibalism.
If the Federal Labor party is going to be the
party of High Protection, then it can’t abolish
the contract labor clause (retaining the proviso
that the contract must be a fair one made with a
desirable white citizen) too soon. If it is going to
remain the old fiscal-sinking party it can’t leave
the contract labor clause alone too suddenly. To
abolish that clause, and yet leave the tariff as it is,
would be merely a useless abasement before the
mean crowd of Tory Foreign-trade slanderers, of
the type of Fitchett, Cook, Conroy, Kelly,
Wilks, and the two Smiths.
* * * *
It is a common delusion that density of popula-
tion necessarily means poverty. Rather, accord-
ing to all the evidence, it means wealth. It is
only a question of making sure of something
like the fair distribution of that wealth, by
rigid laws against land monopoly, trusts and
similar evils ; a question of securing to labor fair-
wages, reasonable hours, and decent conditions of
living; and, above all, a question of making sure
that there is work to do so that the fair wages are
possible. Our own land, young as it is, points
this moral. Maoriland has private wealth
equal to £267, and Victoria equal to £256 per in-
habitant, yet these are the two most densely
peopled States of Australasia. Westralia, with
£216 of private wealth per head, and one person
to four square miles, is the poorest of the States;
Victoria has 56 times its density of population,
and leaves it far behind in affluence. In 1838, when
Australia had only 200,000 people, the wealth per
inhabitant was estimated at £130; now, with
twenty times the population, there is twice as much
wealth for each. Comparing the almost unpopu-
lated N.S.W. of the ’thirties before the boom,
with the much more densely populated N.S.W. of
to-day after the boom—the boom period was so
wholly abnormal that it affords no criterion—it
will be found that wages have risen about 50 per
cent, with the increase of inhabitants. In Europe,
as in Australia, it is the most thinly-peopled
countries that have the least wealth per head. In
the United States it is the less populated States
that are the poorest (the nigger-infested States
are the poorest of all), while Rhode Island and
Massachusetts, the most densely peopled of all,
and about the most exclusively white, stand at
the top in the matter of average wealth. And as
regards the progressive increase of wealth, the
United States went through the same ex-
perience as Australia ; when there were only
4,000.000 Americans their wealth averaged £33
per head ; now that there are nearly 80,000,000,
their wealth averages about £3OO per head.
All the evidence goes to show that an increase—
a huge increase—of desirable white population not
only increases the total wealth of the country, but
also adds immensely to the average wealth per
individual, always provided that the community
provides abundance of profitable employment for
its new population in self-supporting industries.
And any country which has a fair amount of
sense, a strong democratic sentiment, and not too
much Bruce Smith can find the employment. To
supply every ten million or hundred million people
there is enough profitable work to be done to
support ten or a hundred million people, if we
only decide to do the work.
* * * *
But the population we require can’t be obtained
by “settling the people on the land.” Agricul-
ture is the worst paid of all occupations. It is
especially ill-paid in a country of frequent
droughts and great land distances—a country, too,
where much of the produce, when it reaches the
sea-board, has to pay freight over 16,000 miles of
ocean so that it may be sold to the people who
make our ironwork at Birmingham, instead of
being sold, as it should be, to the people who
make our ironwork at Lithgow. Moreover, there
is a limit to the amount that a country can spend
even in the purchase of desirable population.
Importing the impecunious iron-worker, if we
have work waiting for him at his trade, means
paying the passage of a man who becomes a self-
supporting citizen and taxpayer a week after
landing. Doing the same thing with the impecu-
nious agriculturist means importing a man who
must have land given to him, and who must
often be supported, along with his family,
for at least 12 months till his first crop
appears above, ground, and who must also be
excused from paying taxes for at least two years.
Again, in the importation of immigrants this
country desires, for national reasons, to give the
first prefe: ence to people of the British race. And
when it is considered that in England and Scot-
land the artisans number 9,548,00(k while the
persons engaged in agriculture and fisheries only
amount to 1,390,000, the absurdity of trying to
acquire purely agricultural immigrants from a
country which has hardly any agriculture becomes
apparent. It is hardly worth while to devote
ourselves almost wholly to non-British immigra-
tion, and to try to defend our country with a
polyglot army in which th& word of command has
to be given in eight languages, merely that we
may also confine ourselves to the poorest and
most precarious of *
In this matter the example of Canada
has been thrown at us (id nauseam. Canada,
the land of immense wheat fields—Canada,
the granary of England—Canada, which is
alleged to give a farm on the blizzard-stricken
prairie to each newcomer —Canada, with its
grain ships going out on every tide—we have
heard of all these things from Foreign-shoddy
orators, and have been urged by Foreign-shoddy
papers to go and do likewise, till the subject has
become almost exhausted. And to get down from
mere loose eloquence to actual fact, this is the
real position of Canada (as shown by the States-
man’s Year Book), and the result seems to sug-
gest that Canada’s alleged reliance on agriculture
is wholly a myth : —-
Exports op Canadian Produce.
1880. 1904.
Agricultural Produce
(all kinds).. .. 22,294,000 dollars 37,139,000 dollars
Manufactured goods 16,197,000 ~ 48,034,000 „
Canada’s great boom came with its resolve to
become a great manufacturing country, and it
adhered to that resolve till its exports of manu-
factures far exceed in value the exports from
all its boasted wheatfields. In doing this it
shows Australia the road to be followed. This
country requires more white population. To get
desirable immigrants it is necessary to do more
than advertise the country and supply assisted
passages; the great essential is to find work
for the newcomers on arrival. To put them all on
the often-drought-stricken land (whether they
know anything of land or not), with no reliable
market for any extra produce nearer than Europe ;
to give them land ; to keep them till their crops
come up—if the grasshoppers allow the crops to
come up ; and to subsidise them for ever by carry-
ing their produce by rail at less than half the cost
of carriage—all this is impossible. And if it were
possible, it would only result in making this the
same beggared kind of land as Russia, or any other
mainly agricultural country. But if it is proposed
to leave off sinking the fiscal issue, and to
take the road which has lifted, or is lifting, the
United States, Canada, Germany, Argentina, and
Japan out of the old rut of stagnation, the posi-
tion is different. Then a huge and immediate
influx of desirable white population is possible,
and with all the scores and hundreds of new in-
dustries which may be created, it will be neces-
sary to import whole armies of skilled workmen.
With that end in view, the importation of labor
under fair contract conditions should be allowed
in the largest possible fashion. But if the tariff
is to remain as it is, and the lack of work is to con-
tinue, and the great importing disease is to be
unchecked, and the fiscal issue is to continue sunk,
there is very little in J. C. Watson’s proposal.
QUEENSLAND’S FINANCIAL PROSPECTS.
The fact that will have to be glued in front of
Queensland Parliament, and especially the
nominee part of it—the part that still has a vague
but fading notion that PhilP is the State’s only
safe leader—is that the Government’s extra taxa-
tion proposals are amazingly modest. There is an
idea up north that the State is out of the bog,
whereas the real fact is that about all Morgan
and Kidston have so far been able to do is to stop
it drifting any deeper into the bog. It is true
that Kidston wound up last financial year with a
surplus of £13,995, whereas Piiilp’s deficit
in 1901 was £528,189, and in 1902 £431,940.
But if it had not been for three
things in particular, even this Ministry,
exercising all its care, would not have been able
to avoid a heavy deficit. First, there was the
special retrenchment in the public service. Last
year, though it was not as severe as it was in the
previous couple of years, that retrenchment still
amounted to £56,942. The surplus allowed only
two-fifths of this special service taxation to be
remitted. Then there were the larger receipts
from land sales. In 1902, the so-called revenue
from this source was £39,958 ; gradually it crept
up till last year it was £124,175, a growth of
£84,217 in three years. The present Government
is far too honest to be satisfied with a surplus
made up, not from revenue, but out of the
conversion of assets into cash. Therefore,
though the sins of its predecessors com-
pelled it to do what it does not attempt
to defend, except on the poor ground of
expediency, it proposes now to earmark all such
“ revenue” for public works. In other words, it
will merely change the form of the assets, giving
the State a pound’s worth of works for every
pound’s worth of land it takes. If the sins of its
predecessors had allowed it to do this last year, it
would have shown a heavy deficit of over £lOO,OOO.
Last year practically nothing was spent out of
revenue on works. The total amounted to only
£20,819. True, even £20,819 provided for works
out of revenue was bette • than Philp showed in
his last full year, when the total was only £19,818.
But what Philp did is no standard of what Mor-
gan and Kidston have set themselves to do, or of
what political honesty requires.
• * » *
The plain fact is that, if Premier Morgan and
his colleagues had last year given back to the
State as much in works as they took in lands, a
deficit of £89,361 would have been unavoidable,
even with the special public service retrenchment
in full blast. And even this very gloomy result
was only arrived at with the help of something
extra in the way of railway revenue. Take the
past five years’ record :
Interest Net Receipts Taxation
on from required to
Loans. Works, &c. pay Interest.
1901 .. £1,415,180 £358,667 £1,056,513
1902 .. 1,480,376 481,516 998,860
1003 .. 1,509,183 548,533 900,650
1904 .. 1,547,331 693,271 854,060
1905 1,547,091 814,051 733,040
Under Morgan’s progressive policy it is almost
impossible that things can ever be quite as bad as
they were under the rule of the incompetent and
careless Philp Ministry. But even Morgan can-
not guarantee Queensland good seasons. Last
year there was an increase in Queensland cattle
from 2,481,717't0 2,724,340, while in the five years
from 1895 to 1900 there was a steady loss, which
brought the totals down from 6,822,40 i to 4,078,191.
In the matter of sheep there was last year an
increase of 29j per cent., instead of the persistent
loss which had occurred for many years before.
To a large extent these things are beyond a
Government’s reach; and the drought disaster
that struck Queensland before is liable to strike it
again. Already there is a report that the coming
harvest is imperilled by want of rain.
* * * *
Undoubtedly, if Morgan gets proper support,
the State will move ahead now in other directions.
With a progressive land-tax to force into better
use the areas in the more favored districts, the
State will be less at the mercy of the drought.
But without that tax the chances of Queensland
being able to go on doing eveA as well as it did
last year are small. It will be liable to be landed
again any year in a heavy deficit. For this current
year Treasurer Kidston, while ear-marking land-
sale receipts for indispensable public works, can
only show a mere thimbleful of a surplus by taking
credit, not only for the new land-tax, but also for
another £Bl,OOO of net railway revenue—and.
how much better last year’s railway revenue
was than that of preceding years has been
shown already. Kidston knows that he is
skating on fearfully thin ice; it is a question
whether Queensland knows it. If it does, then
there shouldn’t be two words said against
the new land-tax proposals. Also the appearance
of Kidston’s poor little surplus, produced
last year in the way described, shouldn’t have been
sufficient to set the whole State pounding at the
Treasury door for concessions of one sort or
another. And, finally, going outside State
politics, if it really recognised the size of its finan-
cial difficulties, Queensland wouldn’t show as
much disposition as it does to tolerate the Free-
trader and the low-tariffist. The change from the
State’s high tariff to the Commonwealth’s low
tariff has cost it about £400,000 a year; and if it
only had that amount now, it might feel a lot
more comfortable. Its poorly paid public ser-
vants wouldn’t have had to submit to special taxa-
tion, a fairly vigorous public works policy could
be pursued, and development of the “great
natural resources ” could go along side by side
with a gradual reduction of the Greatest Debt per-
head on Earth.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Trickett wants to Secede.
In reply to a disgracefully silly old politician -
It’s not everyone who can write three-quarters of a »
column to a newspaper without making one solitary intel-
ligent remark, but W. J. Trickett, M.L.C. (of N.S.W.), .
achieved that difficult feat in a letter to Sydney Tele-
graph, of Sept. 5. The letter was headed “Secession
from Federation.” Not only did Trickett, M.L.C.,
manage to avoid showing any signs of knowledge or intel-
ligence, but he managed also to say as much that was
ignorant and foolish as could possibly be got into the
space. The letter in question proves him to be such a
very foolish and ignorant person that his opinions would
be hardly worth commenting on were it not for the fact
that he occupies a somewhat important position in the
Upper House, and his utterances may therefore be
received with a great deal more respect than they deserve.
He begins, of course, with a recital of the cruel wrongs
which are being inflicted on the “humiliated” State of
N.S.VV. It is quite true, by the way, that N.S.W. has
been humiliated since Federation. Its humiliation has
consisted in being represented in the Federal Parliament by
persons like Conroy, Neild, Wilks, Willis, Kelly, Sydney
Smith, Lonsdale and co., w ho have been put there mostly
by people who think like Trickett. But we can hardly
blame Federation for that.
When we look into Trickett’s recital of wrongs, which
he assigns as reasons for seceding, we find they are all
evolved purely from his ignorance of the meaning of the
Constitution or of recent political history’. As far as the
capital business is concerned, for instance, Trickett
doesn’t appear to know that every effort which has been
made to fix the site has been made by the Commonwealth,
and blocked by N.S.W. As the thing stands now’, a site
has been chosen, and the only reason why the capital is
not now being built in N.S.W. is that the State Parlia-
ment stands in the way. And when, in response to the
State Premier’s suggestion that the matter should be
referred to the High Court, Prime Minister Deakin
offered to facilitate the matter in every possible way,
Carruthers ivhined about the “evasion ” of his request,
and did nothing.
Another of Trickett’s reasons for seceding is that “Aus-
tralia as a whole, and the individual States, w’ere never in
so defenceless a condition as they are to-day.” This
statement is mere ignorant absurdity. No one pretends
that the defence system of Australia is all that it should ;
be. But everyone who knows anything about it, knows
that the defence system is in every way more efficient
than it was before Federation. To start with, we have a
single defence system for Australia, which we never had, ,
and never would have had, without Federation. Whether
our system is good or bad, the mere fact that we have it
puts us into an infinitely better condition with regard to
defence than we could have reached under the old State
regime.
Trickett’s other reasons for seceding are all about as
intelligent and forcible as those already referred to. He
talks of the Braddon clause “ with its complications and
extravagant exactions and payments, especially as regards s
this State.” One might safely bet that if he were given a.
copy of the Constitution and asked to point to the:
Braddon clause, he wouldn’t know it when he saw it.
For his information, and for the information of hundreds ■
of people who talk like him, without knowing what they
are talking about, it may be mentioned that the Braddon.
clause (section 87 of the Constitution) has not affected the'
finances of N.S.W. in the slightest degree, except possibly
by limiting the expenditure of the Commonwealth, and.
so securing a larger return of surplus revenue to N.S.W.-
There has never been a hint of any “ complication ” or
“ exaction ” resulting from it, at any rate as far asN.S.W..
is concerned. It merely provides, as Trickett will learn.
(apparently for the first time) if he reads, that of all the:
eustoms and excise revenue collected by the Commonu ealth •
at least three-fourths shall be returned to the States. Up.'
to the present the States have received not only the-
three-fourths to which they are entitled, but more than:
£4,000,000 over and above that amount. N.S. Wales has:
received £1,535,000 more than it is entitled to. It is:
almost trite to say that the Braddon clause, so far as it.
has affected the Commonwealth finances at all, has
operated to the advantage of the States. But perhaps:
people like Trickett could hardly be expected to know
that.
He also “ thinks he is right in saying that all our
N.S.W. patent records have been bundled over to Mel-
bourne.” If he had taken the trouble to inquire, he
would have known he was wrong in saying any such
thing, for the patent records still remain in N.S.W. He
says that the question of giving N.S.W. another member
is being treated with indifference, and that the poor old
mother State is being flouted. He doesn’t appear to know
that the Deakin Government has introduced a measure to
provide promptly for the accurate ascertainment of the
number of members to which each State is entitled, and
to grant them that number of members —and Joe Cook, of
N.S.W., immediately wanted the Bill postponed. He
complains that the railway gauges of Australia have not
been made uniform, and that riparian rights have not
been adjusted, apparently in happy ignorance of
the fact that the Constitution doesn’t enable
the Federal Parliament to deal with these matters.
Nothing, he says, has been done, or even attempted,
“ concerning the con solidation of the various State debts.”
It’s difficult to imagine anyone so comprehensively
ignorant of recent political history as this statement
proves Trickett to be. Has he never heard of the Hobart
Conferences, and of George Turner’s proposals ?
These are specimens of the grounds on which Trickett
wishes the heroic Joseph Carruthers to take the lead
in a secession movement. Now if Joseph Carruthers
would only start a secession movement to include him-
self, Trickett, and several others whose names might be
mentioned, all patriotic New South Welshman might well
wish the movement success, provided, of course, that they
seceded far enough. No other secession movement is
likelv to prosper very much, unless better reasons can
be found for it than Trickett has discovered. Anyhow,
it’s a disgrace to N.S.W. that a person capable of writing
such a letter should occupy a place of importance and
distinction in the State Legislature.


A Stinking Fysh. Question.
In the House of Representatives last week Philip
Fysh, of Tasmania, merchant, Freetrader, and
one-time member of the Barton and Deakin
Ministries, broke out in an unexpected locality.
The mild old gentleman with the prolonged beard
said that “the legislation passed during the last
five years had been most detrimental to Aus-
tralia” ; also that “the legislation that he (Fysh)
as a member of past Governments had assisted to
pass had been in the last degree mischievous.” It
was such a staggering announcement that the
House had a spell of dead silence, but at last
Mauger recovered his breath sufficiently to ask
Fysh why he helped to pass all this nefarious
legislation, and Fysh beamed at him over
the cataract of his whiskers, and said he
did it because “he had to be loyal to
his colleagues.” As an example of the depths
of political degradation to which a wealthy
merchant can descend, this merchant is something
the average. Fysh was bound, no doubt,
to be loyal to his colleagues, or else give up office
as Kingston did. So long as he was willing to
give up office he couldn’t be compelled or required
;to support any Government measure of which he
disapproved, and he need not be loyal. There-
fore, by his own showing, he gave up his con-
science for the sake of office. He told shameful
'.untruths, by defending measures in which he dis-
believed, for office. He dragged his political
(honor in the mud for office —and a man’s political
and personal honor are very hard to separate.
.And by his own declaration he basely and dis-
■gracefully set to work to injure his country
ffor office;; he believed that certain measures
'were injurious to the country, yet he voted for
’them, and voted to injure the country, rather than
;give up office. And ail this time he was a com-
iparatively rich man w)io didn’t need office—not a
wery poor man, as Kingston was when he threw
cup his portfolio and salary rather than depart,
even in a very small matter, from what he re-
garded as the right course. All these assertions
care based on Fxsh’s own needless and superfluous
description of himself, given with; the air of a man
•who saw nothing disgraceful in his description of
himself. If Fysh describes himself accurately, he
iis an awful specimen of political degradation,
and a most unsavory sample of the very unsavory
; mercantile class, which poses as the political salt
..of the earth in this country.
-- -- •» V
The Persecuted in England.
' Tub Bulletin awaits with some anxiety the utter-
ances of the Australian daily press on recent inci-
..dents in connection with the persecution pf
■ “ Passive Resisters ” in England. The local news-
i papers, which so freely abused ( their own country
• on account .of the imaginary .wrongs of the Six
. Blind Hatters aud the Immigrant Petrianas, will
ssurely have something to say as to the shocking
itreatment Of Miss .Johnston, daughter of tjie
■ Rev. John Johnston, of Stoke Newington, Eng-
i land, even though her atrocious ,ca,se is only pi)e
: i among hundreds. In Australia an enlightened
1 public sentiment decrees that the people shall be
; taxed for the dissemination of only secular [ edupa-
t tion. Smith, who is a Presbyterian, cannot
i'be; forced to pay for the up-keep pf schools
. where; they teach tbut episcopacy is a Heaven-
< .ordained institution. Und BlLLlNGfON, yvhp
■is ,an Evangelical Anglican, is pot levied
'•upon . to ; teach the children ,pf O’Rourke
■..that the Pope is an infallible guide pn religious
i matters. The education taxes are spent wholly
• on the teaching ,of matters ,qf fact,'such as,that
'!Tasmania is an island and three times four are 12.
(England hasn’t y.et reached that stage pf political
..enlightenment and persists in levying .rates for the
nup-keep of denominational schools, so that Moses,
.who is a Jew, has to pay for tlie dissemination of
"Christian doctrine which says his faith is dam-
unable, and Jones, who is a Particular Baptist, Sub-
sidises the preaching of the importanpei of infant
• ibaptism, which he doesn’t bplieye in. Against
uthis law many thousandsof citiz;enshave protested,
Ufrom conscientious motives, in the pnly way
-possible, by refusing to pay the rate. Miss
• i Johnston, and her father, the Key. J. Jqhnston,
\were among the prptestants. As they had no
i .property to distrain upon, they were arrested
'.and sentenced to imprisonment, though the one
v was a .woman and the other a weak old U ia U-
So in free England, on a matter of conscience,
- Miss'-JOHNSTON was taken to HqI] oway Prison, hpr
f father to Wormwood Scrubbs. At her gaol she —
' though, so t. to speak, a political prisoner—was
searched;; ,as she was cleanly she was spared a
. compulsory hath. In ,her cell,she was refused
"writing material, and had to eat the meals provided
ijher with, her fingers. If this happened in Russia
i to sectaries, with 14 consonants in their names,
i how the British press would haye howled ! Or if
. .Australian, legislation inflicted such indignities in
, the effort, to make one religious ' sect support
■ another, what screams, of protest frotn the Aus-
i tralian,press, re-echoed fr.on Jjondon, and repeated
again from here with increased vigor, of cursing !
I If .Australia, instead, of admifting.the Six Hitters,
irhad shut out a. hundred hatters, it; wouldn’t have
gat down to England’s level in the m ( attpr of out-
; rage on British subjects.
♦ r
“Look at Our Exports.”
I’Every little while somebody rises (usually with a
wine-glass in his fingers), to remark that Aus-
- tralia must be a great country, because, in propor-
! tion to its population, it exports ever , so much
. more than auy other country on earth. Governor
Talbottle, of Victoria, has j ust added himself to
' the number of these foolish persons; he built a
Melbourne speech on the text that Australia’s
exports last year, valued at £‘55,000,000, repre-
sented £14 per head, which was almost double
; that of the richest country in, the world ; where-
fore, of course, Australia is.twice as rich as the
; next richest country. Probably this sort of talk
would do. as much good as harm if there
1 were not , another crowd . which argues from
; it that Australia is doing so well that
• it couldn’t possibly do any better, and
i that its proper course is to go straight ahead on
• the road it has been, travelling; that, in short, if
>it is twice as rich as any other country, it would
bbe a fool to turn round and do something which
i might leave it only half as rich. Therefore the
•bald yarn that Australia is rich because its exports
."are great is comprehensively cursed for these
"reasons among others :—
(1) Its exports are unusually large, because its, foreign
■ debt is unusually large. No other country jn the world
. has to send away one-fifth as much interest per head.
. Even when other countries (France, for instance) are
■ heavily mortgaged, they are their own Cohen.
' (2) Its exports are phenomenal because its imports are
, phenomenal. Hardly another country in the world is so
helpless, and leans upon the foreigner for. go vast a
proportion of the manufactured goods it wants. Aus-
tralia even imports most of the manure it uses. Though
tit has millions of acres on which to run cows, it imported
dast year JS200,000 worth of milk. It imports practically
every iron tool and utensil it uses. It imports every
yard of cotton and silk, and nearly all its woollen goods.
It grows millions of cattle, and yet last 3'ear imported,
•apart from boots, shoes;, and. sa Idlers! goods, £306,768 of
leather. It is one of the greatest lead and zinc producing
countries in the world; yet it imported £268,514 worth
of paint and putty. The reason, then, why it ex-
ported the £55,000,000 worth of goods that
Gov. Talbottle mentions was because it had to do it
in order to pay for the £35,816,994 worth of mer-
chandise it imported and to pay interest on its foreign
debt. But it would have been a vastly richer
country if at least £25,000,000 had been lopped off each
side of the account. It is simply exporting vast quanti-
ties of goods to pay for the support of factories and popu-
lation in ocher countries instead of in this country, and it
is throwing away millions of pounds in dragging goods to
and fro over the earth —in shipping hides and bark to
Germany, for instance, and getting back the leather
which should have been made out of the hides and bark
in Australia.
(3) Its exports are phenomenal because it is tearing
the eyes out of the country; and every country has a
strictly limited number of eyes. Of the £55,000,000 of
exports last year, £5,563,865 was gold ; and there is a
difficulty about digging up the same lot of gold twice.
Copper represented another £1,654,591 ; and the place
Where that came from is now a hole in the ground.
Another £3,093,464 was in silver and lead ; and the hole
that that came out of is just as useless and unproductive
as the other hole that the copper came out of. Timber
stood for £827,903 ; and there is the same difficulty about
chopping down a tree twice as there is about digging up
the same gold twice. Of the rest, £17,115,334 was wool;
and the wool business consists of turning sheep into
a paddock and waiting for a few months. It is
the most primitive business in the world, and until
the fleece gets into the factory, gives less and more
precarious employment than almost any other industry
of the same size in the world. And in Australia it gives
even less employment than almost anywhere else; here
no shepherding is required, and very little in the way of
fencing and other improvements ; and the policy of giving
every possible job to a foreigner instead of to an Aus-
tralian is carried to such an extent that of the £17,115,334
worth of wool, only £3,975,393 worth was even washed.
The other £13,139,951 worth was sent away with the dirt
still in it.
Instead, then, of being proud of the fact that its
exports are twice as great as those of any other
country in the world, Australia ought to feel
mightily ashamed of it. The figures are the signs,
not of its greatness, but of its improvidence. They
are proofs, no doubt, of wealth, but of wealth sent
to criminal waste.
The Maw of Melbourne.
“ Meliora ” sends this story:—
The praiseworthy attempt which is being made by
Premier Bent to make Geelong-' a real Seaport, by deepen-
ing the passage through the bar, and improving the fore-
shore, is not smiled upOh by' Melbourne. Even as it is,
Geelong is handling a steadily-increasihg amount of wool
and wheat every year ; and during the’ past 12 months
quite an imposing list of deep-sea ships have loaded up at
its wharves. And everything’ that is likely to prevent the
overgorged metropolis from growing- larger until it
bursts, shoulcf'be warmly encouraged. Melbourne just
now contains’ five-twelfths of the inhabitants of Victoria,
which is both ridiculous and an evil. There is no doubt
that if Victoria, like Maorilahd, had half-a-dozen equally
large towns scattered oyer its circumference, as Dunedin,
Christchurch’, Wellington .and Auckland are', the State
would, be very much better off. But Melbourne has
become, so big that no other town' has much of a show
against it, and every year the country industries keep
moving Melbournewards. 1 1
During my residence in the Western District, which is
perhaps the wealthiest in the State’, this dj'in'g or shifting
process has been going on all the while. There were once
flour mills . at Mortlake, Terang, and Warrnambool
(the latter town had either two ' Or three); now
there isn’t a mill along or’ near the coast
between Geelong and the South Australian border.
Warrnanjbool used to have a woollen mill, a meat
preserving works, a rabbit preserving works, a farina
mill, . and a pearl barley factory. Every one of
them is dead. It had the best windmill maker
( Vlston— the free ad. won’t hurt him) ; but he shifted to
Melbourne three years ago ; and it had a good oven-
maker, who followed suit. Now its two industries are a
boot-factory and a butter-box-maker’s shop, while two or
three tanneries just eke out an existence. Hamilton had
a butter-factory and a rabbit and poultry preserving
works—both gone under. Port Fairy has still a rabbit
and fish preserving works, which just manages to keep
its head above water ; and it does this chiefly because the
humble barracouta is so plentiful. Warrnambool used to
have a flourishing steamship service of its own, but
M‘l i, wraitii, M’Eaciiahn and Cos. own it now. An enter-
prising Penshurst man ran a eucalyptus oil factory for a
few years—making bis oil in the Victoria Valley, behind
the Grampian ranges, hue the oil made in Oollingwood
drove him out of the business. There used to be a brick-
works between Terang and Camperdown, and another
near Warrnambool, but Bent’s pals at Brunswick closed
them both up. And so the desolating game goes on.
Warrnambool, Port Fairy and Portland should be great
flourishing ports—like Invercargill and Port Chalmers—
doing a direct oversea trade, and with busy factories
supplying the prosperous dairying country at the back ;
but, instead, they are all three going steadily backwards ;
and Portland, which—being furthest away from Mel-
bourne —was the most progressive town of the three,
lately sold its freezing works to Bum,. All three ports
depend more and more on the tourist trade—the tourist
being usually the Melbourne importer or manufacturer,
who should be living and working at one of the three ports
the whole year round. The spectacle of three fine seaside
towns, which should be hives of industry, struggling for
the patronage of the Melbourne tourist, who isn’t half
numerous enough to go round, for three months in the
year, and then dozing drearily through the other nine
months, is both pathetic and deplorable. But while the
railway system and everything else converges on one
bloated metropolis, what chance have they ?
♦
The Angry Jap.
According to the cabled reports, the alleged
peace-loving Monkey person grew bitterly angry
at the mention of peace, and a considerable
section of him dashed things about. For a day or
two there were tales of riot, bloodshed, attacks on
foreigners and the destruction of their houses and
churches, martial law, attempts to slaughter states-
men supposed to be in favor of peace, and threats
to wreck and loot the premises of foreign ambas-
sadors. Japan seemed to have, for the moment,
lost the run of the garment of polite and affable
disguise, and in the upheaval even the old pro-
found reverence for the Mikado appeared to grow
frayed at the edges and a trifle deteriorated.
Apparently the Japanese rulers overdid things.
In their desire to put a good face on the position
and deceive the enemy they deceived their own
people without deceiving the enemy. The Jap
knew of the great victories that had been won,
and considered that he was invincible and had
only to name his own terms. He didn’t
realise fully the enormous number of men lost
in gaining these victories, or the fact that
the country was nearly bankrupt, and that
the Russians, on land, were nearly as strong as
ever. He apparently didn’t realise that after two
years of victory he hadn’t even driven the
Russians out of China, and that at the current rate
of progress it would take about twenty years of
war and a thousand million pounds before he could
strike the Muscovite in a vital spot. He only
knew of his successes and shouted “ Banzai.”
All the time the Russian was not deceived by the
good face which Japan’s rulers put on things. He
realised that his victorious enemy was in financial
straits, and that time, and distance, and snow, and
frost were all elements on his own side, and when
he demanded peace on easy terms he got it. As
the bluff had failed, there was little for Japan to
do save grant easy terms. But apparently the
Jap people were so completely deceived that to
many of them the treaty of peace was a gigantic
treason, and in the first moment of stupefaction
they had to break something.
High Court decision in Factories Inspector Mar-
tin v. Beath, Schiess and Cos. shows the restric-
tions which hamper Vic. Factories Acts. Beath,
Schiess and Cos. contracted with Mrs. Rogers, a
factory owner, to make 200 dozen aprons at Is',
per dozen (afterwards increased to Is. Id. per
dozen), for which they supplied the material. Evi-
dence showed that this rate did not permit of the
payment of the legal minimum wage—4d. per hour.
The District Court was asked to fine 8., S. and Cos.
as the real employers. It refused. The Full
Court, appealed to, granted an order to review
that refusal. The High. Court dissents from that
and rules that “ the relations of the parties are
those of two independent contractors ; ... it was
perfectly lawful for Mrs. Rogers to make a con-
tract to do work at any rate she thought fit. If
she could riot carry out the contract without
breaking the law, so much the worse for
her.” But she might do it and yet keep
within the letter of the law by the
employment of the maximum number of appren-
tices and improvers (in a large factory an abnor-
mal number of these could be temporarily
transferred from one job to another), or by the
■institution of the heart-breaking, body-wrecking
i ‘‘ task ” system ; wherefore if it was lawful for her
'to make the contract, it was equally lawful for
i 8., S. and Cos. to do so. It is a legally sound pro-
• position. The trouble is that it allows sweating,
! price-cutting, the undue employment of hard-
driven, unskilled child labor, and other evils.
Probably half the white-work factories in Mel-
bourne, are worked by such improvers and appren-
tices—the Act puts no limit on the employment
of these, at stated wages, in this trade—toiling at
cheap stock lines for “ the warehouses.”
Whilst in Sydney the Telegraph and in Brisbane
the Courier have been foolish enough to raise the
direct cry of secession as an indication of their
bitterness of spirit because Australia won’t have
G. H. Reid as Prime Minister, Melbourne Argus
has contented itself with showing its dissatis-
faction with Federation by an attack on the High
Court. The fact that the Court has been unfortu-
nately obliged to differ frequently from the Vic-
torian Full Court is advanced as a reason why
“ steps should be taken ” and “ earnest considera-
tion given” and “due weight accorded to these
facts.” It is presumed, for purposes of unfair
argument, that it was never discovered that the
Full Court was sometimes a Fool Court before
Federation. But the fact is that, both in N.S.W.
and Victoria, reversals of Full Court decisions by
the Privy Council were painfully frequent and,
tabulating the cases so far, it does not seem that
the High Court has shown a greater capacity for
being in disagreement with the Full Court than
the Privy Council. The truth seems to be that in
each of the States, the judicial mind has got into
something of a groove. The Bench, recruited
always from the same Bar, was nur-
tured always on the same _ tradition, and
various legal fallacies won to a position in which
common consent glossed over their unsoundness.
The High Court came as anew broom, and it has
swept many cobwebs away. The sweeping has
' caused some annoyance, People get to love their
cobwebs. But that annoyance Will -soon fade
away, and in a very short time the successful
appeals will become rarer, because the State
Judiciaries will see more clearly. What will then
have to be guarded against is the dropping of the
Federal Judiciary into a groove; If it is recruited
from the strongest men of the various State
Bars, that should be easy. Very soon, from
present appearances, recruits will be necessary,
and The Bulletin hopes then to see men of the
stamp of Isaacs (Vic.)-, A. I. Clark (Tas.),
Higgins (Vic.), or B. R. Wise (N.S.W.) ap-
pointed. A Bench of five is really necessary to
cope with the growing' work, and to prepare the
way for the inevitable disappearance of the State
Full Courts sitting in appellate jurisdiction.
4,
Victoria’s “self-reliant farmer” had a cold time
for his Agricultural Show in Melbourne—hail,
sleet, and wind on the ground and in the
city, and snow on the ranges all around —but it
was nothing to the chilly days he spent outside
the public offices and on the Treasury doormat.
A long procession of deputations pestered Premier
Bent and Works Minister Cameron, at the rate
of 15 and 20 a day, until Bent at last utterly
wearied of the wretched cadging business, and a
brief and decided “No ” became the order of the
day. The assistance asked would have mopped up
Bent’s surplus twice over. One shire asked £3OOO
to make a few miles of road—in a district so
thickly populated that all over it a stone could be
thrown from one settler’s house to another. Four
self-reliant councillors appealed for a “ poor far-
mer,” of whose 320 acres 18 had been taken for a
railway, without compensation. Seeing that this
land had originally been sold with the “no com-
pensation for railway resumption ” contingency,
and that the line had greatly enhanced the value
of the remaining 302 acres, Bent’s “No ! ” in this
case was specially emphatic. But why are not a
whole lot of these farmers run in under the
Vagrancy Act for begging in a public place ?
♦
The S.M. Herald (6/9/’OS) published an article
on “The Best Class of Immigrants” which,
strangely enough, hardly mentioned the British
person, but called loudly for Austrians and Italians.
The German Austrian is certainly a good enough
immigrant, but much of the debris which makes
up the rest of the Austrian empire is dirty,
ignorant and brutish, and neither the non-German
Austrian nor the Italian can compare with the
man from the British Isles as a desirable citizen.
But to secure a large immigration from Britain it
is necessary to create manufactures, for the British
immigrant is mostly an artisan ; whereas if we
stick to the policy of importing our manufactured
goods, while our own people lead an impecunious
existence “on the land,” we can get the Austrian
—the worst type of Austrian, from the south and
east —who is mostly “on the land ” himself. Also
we can get the Italian, who is mostly either “on
the land ”or on the barrel organ. Even the bonds
of Empire and the “crimson thread of kinship”
have to take a back seat in order to keep Aus-
tralia a poor miserable country devoted to the
production of raw material and full of people who
are “on the land.”
■ ♦ '
The latest contribution to the discussion re Aus-
tralian defence is this motion by Kelly, member
for Wentworth in the Australian House of Repre-
sentatives :
That whereas the command of the seas in time of
war is essential to the security of the Empire’s vast
interests on and beyond the seas, and whereas this com-
mand cannot be assured by separate squadrons acting
independently on behalf of each section of the Empire,
and whereas the United Kingdom, which has hitherto
borne practically unassisted the burden of Imperial naval
defence, will sooner or later be unable to continue to
make sufficient provision against the rapidly-increasing
naval armaments of foreign Powers, this House is of
opinion (1) that all naval expenditure by the Common-
wealth of Australia should be towards the Imperial navy,
on the efficiency and adequacy of which in time of war
will depend her security from serious danger ; and (2)
that the Commonwealth of Australia’s contribution to
the Imperial navy should be doubled.
The Kelly theory is that Australia should not be
ready to fight in its own defence when difficulties
arise, but that it should pay Britain £400,000 a
year to fight for it. Yet it is pretty safe to bet
that Kelly doesn’t know of any country that
saved itself in time of real trouble by paying any
other place £400,000 a year to fight for it. To an
affluent trifler with a motor car it may seem
easier and safer to pay £400,000 a year than to
build our own fleet and face the enemy personally,
as a capable and militant section of the British
empire. But though it may seem an easier device
it isn’t nearly so manly, nor is it nearly so
efficient.
The latest report from the State Rights cranks is
that some of the States will decline to hand over
their statistical departments to the Commonwealth,
and refuse to let it save money and secure greater
efficiency by doing all the statistical business of
Australia from one office. Truly, the Common-
wealth has a hard row to hoe with most of the
grumpy little State Premiers of this great country.
When it proposes to establish a Federal statistical
office or to appoint a High Commissioner, as it is
ordered to do by the Constitution, certain can-
tankerous State Premiers reply that they will
keep on their State statistical offices and their State
Agents-General just the same, and then they will,
of course, grumble because Federation doesn’t
reduce expenses. They keep up their twelve
State Houses of Parliament, and their six im-
ported State Governors, and all the rest of the
old pomp and ceremony, and again they curse
because Federation doesn’t reduce expenses.
They demand such impossible subsidies for
carrying mails by the State railways that in some
cases the Commonwealth has to send its mails by
coach, and does this at about half, or less than half,
the rates demanded by the ill-mannered State
cormorants. They complain because the Federal
Government doesn’t spend more on the Governor-
General, so that he may hang out in two palaces at
Melbourne and Sydney simultaneously, and again
they want to know why expenses are not reduced.
Then N.S.W. denounces the Federal Government
for not selecting a Federal capital site, and
refuses to give up the site when it is selected;
and an incredible old political ass like
Trickett, M.L.C., calls on his State to secede
because the Federal Parliament hasn’t sup-
plied a uniform railway gauge, though he
should know well that the Federal Parlia-
ment has no control whatever over railways. In
its dealings with some of the State Ministries —
that of N. S. W. especially —the Australian
Government is in the position of a person who
tries to deal on rational principles with a cargo of
dangerous lunatics, or a considerable quantity of
intoxicated monkeys.
Light was thrown upon the Monkey’s climb-
down, in connection with the peace negotiations,
by recent London financial journals. It was
pointed out by one that Russia’s apparent difficulty
in raising loans was not exactly what it seemed to
be. Japan was resorting to the hard-up system of
pledging specific revenues in support of its loans,
the last one being secured, for example, upon the
tobacco monopoly. On the other hand, Russia
was holding this method in reserve. Had the
Bear, for instance, pledged his highly-profitable
drink monopoly he could have raised enormous
sums very easily. Again, in order to gain the
investors’ confidence, and to put a brave face on
things, Japan floated “internal” loans between
each foreign loan ; but, when the last foreign loan
was being floated, huge parcels of the last internal
loan were being privately hawked about London,
The British Investor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The sole design of Labour in Australian politics
would appear to be to make capital timid, and scare the
British investor from Antipodean investments.”—Conser-
vative Paper.
Oh, hush, you rash Australians, and be careful
where you’re going,
Be also very cautious what you say.
He’s lurking round the corner, and the softest
Zephyr blowing
Takes scent of what you’re thinking, and, ’fore
heaven, there’s no knowing,
The lightest thought may frighten him away.
The noblest work of God is he, the generous
Inyestor.
Be eager, then to humor every whim.
The wealth he has of Crcksus, and as wise is he as
Nestor,
But so timid, that trembles at the whisper of a
jester, '
And, brothers, we owe everything to him !
He has kidney sts reflecting on the aims and acts
of Labor, * ' 11
Thinks democratic sentiment a pest.
You might just as well assault him with the rifle
and the sabre '
As make laws to bar our black, or bronze, or
coffee-colored neighbor,
Or refuse to take the leper to your breast.
Do nothing that you want to do, leave all your
legislating' ' '■ lv “ 1
To Bat, who knows and honors all his views.
Yop must stifle each refoMnei- ’g&inst his Order
fulminating, 1 1 1 '
The socialistic politician’s pestilential prating
Makes the shy Investor shiver in his shoes.
The toilers must bo taught that any measures of
their making '
Arp'a sorrowful, demoralising blight,
And startle the Investor, set him quivering and
quaking, :
And 1 may lead to Austral finding one fine morning
'on awaking • ; ' 1 ‘ '
He’s fled her shores in horror in the night.
Tet’s eat the bread of humbleness with just a little
dripping,' ’ ' ' 1 • • 1 • ■ is- ,; . . .«■
Step softly, be subservient and meek,
Be deferent to Capital, to Business, and to
Shipping, 1
Lest some day you should see, them o’er the sky-
line go a-skipping . > •; i
And you will all be dead within a week.
The Investor is a monstrous thing, insatiable, a
glutton, ii..:,.
Omnivorous, and cavernous of maw,
He devours a daily tribute of our wheat, and wine,
and mutton,
Scoffs wool, and hides, and tallow. Slips a lower
waistcoat button,
Then swallows herds of cattle in the raw !
The milk our babes should have is his, a tithe of
all our fruit is.
He ravages the factory and the store.
Of all we grow, and fake, and find, a moiety his
loot is.
Pray Crpb t that we may not forget how timorous
the brute’is,
Or scare away the wolf before the door !
VIC.
EDWARD DYSON.


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
'i? If you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the Mortgagee 7
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society*
Equitable Building* Sydney
(or Nearest Branch of the Society).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowments
I was born
Ifame
Address
m
a
Q
o
u
mm
♦Tobacco
(N avy Cot.)
MINS
™ CVCRY tIMC
on account of its natural
aromatic flavour*
GALL-AHER L J? BELFAST- -BELONG TO N° TRUST of? CWBIrtE
which was a very significant commentary upon the
state of the national exchequer. When the Peace
conference was opened, the Monkey was a very
hard-up Monkey indeed, while the Bear had
still a few loose coins in his overcoat —if that is
where he carries them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum Belle Crome Co.
Her Majesty’s “ Elizabeth, Queen of England.”
Theatre Royai« “ Between Two Women.”
Criterion “Beauty and the Barge.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “In Town.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “TlieJ.P.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Cingalee.”
Theatre Royal “A Woman’s Hate.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall The Great; Thurston.
v ~—
There was something seriously the matter
with the world 12 or 15 years ago. The boil—it
was evidently some sort of a boil—had been
“working up” for years before that. While it
was “working up,’’the world was feverish. On one
side of the globe the fever showed itself in silver
legislation that ran up the price of the metal that
’Arriet’s ring was made of—till she got it gilded—
from half-a-crown to four-and-ten; this side, it was
revealed in Dunky Gillies and Jimmy Muriro, and
the wildest boom Australia ever knew. Then the
boil burst—burst in dockers’ strike, and shearers’
strike, and miners’ strike, and seamen’s strike,
and busted banks, and busted silver legislation, and
heaps more things of the same sort. It all made the
would feel very sick. Half of it, or thereabouts,
decided that it would have to be a much better
world in future; some of this half hired a ship
and decided to live a new life in Paraguay. Some
more of it sent John Burns to the House of
Commons. Another part of it started rushing
after theosophy, and sat at Mrs. Annie Besant’s
feet when she got back from India and published
“From Storm to Peace.” Some more of it
bought Stead’s Refuse of Refuse and read about
the spooky Julia. And some more of it bought
“Trilby’’and read about Svengali. Tha,t dirty,
unkempt, impossible person was first cousin to all
the others ; they were all just the consequences of
the nasty sick feeling that came over the world
when the great boil burst.
* * * *
It has taken the world a good while to
come to see that it was a very sick devil when it
regarded these things so very seriously; but by
this time it has dropped most of them. The Para-
guayan experiment has fizzled out. The village
settlements in S. Australia have wilted one by one*
Queensland’s “Socialism in our Time” is being
put on the shelf and slowly forgotten. We don’t
hear from Julia any more. But somehow there
are people who think that “Trilby” has still a
kick left. McKee Rankin is evidently one of
them; for, with J. C. Williamson aiding and
abetting him, he revived the phantasy at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday night. There
was a big house—a crowded house, in fact
—to see it; but it fell flat, in most places
horribly flat. The devil is sick no longer,
and couldn’t enter into the spirit of the thing.
It is only Miss Nance O’Neil’s big personal
following that could possibly pull even a brief
“Trilby” season through; nobody, for instance,
would dream nowadays of going into a bookshop
and asking for Du Maurier’s book. And Heaven
only knows why a star actress should be given the
part to show herself off in. It gives her no scope
at all. “ Trilby ”is a colorless young woman, who
never exhibits two-penn’orth of brains, and
most of the time is but one remove from a
lay figure. There is hardly more than one
moment when she has a chance to show
much depth of feeling—when she finds out that
Little Billee and the others disapprove of her
posing in the altogether; and just then Mis*
O’Neil happens to return to the worst of her
old and mostly-discarded mannerisms—the chop-
ping of her remarks into short lengths. It would
be unfair now to judge any actress by her
“Trilby,” and least of all this one, whose strength
lies in other directions altogether. For the rest
there are two good character studies, and a host
ranging from fair to very amateurish. John Glen-
dinning’s Laird lives ; he might be a real person.
And though Gaston Mervale’s Svengali is not
such a finished performance as Fax’s, of old, the
death scene is, nevertheless, much better than was
expected. That was the one point in the whole
performance at which Saturday’s house showed
any real warmth. Little Billee is at the other end
of the scale of merit —the poorest Little Billee
perhaps yet seen, and perhaps also the last, unless
the whole thing be revived some time as a curio-
sity and an interesting relic of a year or two when
the world felt bad. The present revival will last
for this week only; “Elizabeth,” of the days
when England did things, will arrive on Satur-
day night, and that should give Miss O’Neil and
the co. something extra in the way of oppor-
tunities.
#* * *
Packed houses are built up nightly under
the “Walls of Jericho” at Sydney Criterion.
All the racehorse owners, all the fleecers and the
fleeced, all the mere onlookers at the game of life,
are going to see the smart set take life in Mayfair,
London. Next Saturday night “ Beauty and the
Barge” will succeed the “ Walls” and the falling
thereof.
** * *
“A Sailor’s Sweetheart,” which has been
attracting good houses during race-week at Syd-
ney Royal, gives place on Saturday to “Between
Two Women.” Probably it will turn out that the
hero of this new drama finds himself between two
women in a pretty English lane, with honeysuckle
painted on the O.P. side, and a village church for
a back cloth, and sundry gaffers smoking clay
pipes and laughing through the frequent gaps in
their teeth, while an old goody or two trot around
in mob caps; and that between them—the two
women, not the gaffers or the goodies—he falls
into the middle of Zanzibar or Tierra del Fuego,
where he meets with many astonishing adventures
and is finally rescued by the Union Jack and mar-
ried to the heroine, who is English and named
Miss Eugenia Duggan. The Bulletin forecasts
this with some confidence, though it has no tip
from the stable on the matter.
** * *
At Sydney Palace, Mr. Philip Lytton’s
“Players” have been drawing the public with
that fascinating musical comedy, “In Town” —
the very best thing the “ Players ” have done up
to date. Taking it all round, the acting is better
than the singing. Miss Kathleen Beattie, Miss
Jean Maclurcan and Mr. Hubert Lewis deserve
to have their names printed in red ink.
** # *
The Belle Crome Co. opened at Sydney
Lyceum on Saturday night, but the odor of
sanctity that has permeated the theatre since
Mr. Vickery ebenezerised it was responsible for a
rather thin audience. A Derby night crowd
feared lest it should hear “ The ’Oly City ” through
someone’s nose, and see lantern slides of souls
salvaged in London slums. The bellringing of
the co. is a melodious achievement, and the
humorous duet, “ After the Honeymoon,” partly
sung, partly scolded, and partly spoken by Miss
Crome and the Comic Specialist Saunders, would
relieve a case of chronic melancholy.
#* * *
There is more variety at the Tivoli than
there has been these many months, and more
novelty. Added to the one little French couple
who do the quaint gymnastic “turn” is now
another little French couple who do some juggling
with billiard balls, and put on some remarkable
clothes to do their strikingly deft business in.
And for a third importation, showered out of
manager Pickards’ cornucopia, is still another
couple —one twanging melody from the harp, the
other blowing it out of the saxophone.
On further consideration, the writer will
admit that “The as played at Melbourne
Princess’s last Saturday, could be brought nearer
to date—it is very old in design—by cutting out
the majah and introducing a few songs and dances.
One very half-hearted song and dance item in the
2nd act is received with gratitude. The rest
is received with kindness rather than hearty
encouragement. “ The «T.P.” is a farcical comedy
of enormous breadth and no depth whatever,
remarkable for nothing beyond the pleasing per-
formance of Miss Florence Lloyd as an imi-
tation young man. Miss Lloyd in her proper
womanly guise is not so happily placed, but
in her false character she takes Uncle down
at Nap with graceful assurance. Her stage-hus-
band, openly concealed under the card-table, sup-
plies her with straight flushes and other victorious
“hands” for the plundering of her victim—and
this is the acknowledged funniest situation in the
play. Undoubtedly it belongs to the nigger
comedy order of architecture. J. J. Dallas, a good
comedian, seems rather too quiet for the name
part, whereas GreganM‘Mahon, as the mad, melo-
dramatic husband of Miss Maud Chetwy nd, strikes
the top note of absurdity and strikes it very well.
Miss Chetwynd, plumper than of yore, dances
prettily for a minute and acts likewise all the time.
Aubrey Mallalieu, a first appearance, does very
well as the nephew ; two or three other people do
not so well, and the scenery is limited to one set.
“ The J.P.” is merely asked to prosper for a fort-
night at the Princess’s, and perhaps a fortnight is
not too long a task for a piece that displays an un-
sober uncle in the act of fleeing from the wrong
bedroom, pursued by the nightgowned Suzette,
who throws her pillows at him. JPresumably, the
damsel expects him to return with the pillows.
They are essentially coquettish missiles under
such circumstances.
*# * *
“ The Cingalee,” at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne), is said to have brought more money—£2oo
more —into the theatre last week than ever came
to comfort the management in any previous six
days since J.C.W. put his name to the lease.
This is a great testimonial to the continued efficacy
of musical comedy treatment, and an unanswerable
excuse for “ The Cingalee. A dozen other good
excuses might be offered, buc when a show can lay
its hand upon its heart and swear that it has just
beaten the record for cash receipts in a common
canter, there is no immediate need for further
apology. The matter can stand over until next
week.
## * *
The slaughter of the Port Arthur garrison
and the sinking of a Russian warship in Brunton’s
Bay will cease this Friday at Melbourne Royal.
Bland Holt’s war drama ranks among his successes,
and he hopes to award himself a medal for valor at
the close of the campaign. Baker, Styan, Mrs.
Holt, Miss Ross, and the disfigured Brown will
also receive the Monkey Cross, but Albert Norman
and the Russsan members of the co. can hope for
nothing more than salaries, as usual. “ Woman’s
Hate” is the bill for Saturday. Melodrama
managers are very rough on Woman these times.
She is displayed at her Worst and Wickedest. A
special feature is made of her Vengeance. She is
associated with Wine in a disreputable manner.
Formerly she was a rather over-rated angel, with
extreme tendencies to Love and Self-Sacrifice, but
a reaction set in, and for the present the drama-
tists have got her on a bad wicket.
** * *
Thurston the Great has revived the faded
glories of the Athenaeum Hall. Sundry defects
in the lighting arrangements marred the magical
charm of Thurston’s first night show, and it was
not until the middle of last week that his Great-
ness revealed itself at full length, so to speak.
The lady who merely rose into vacancy is now a
revolving body when the spirit moves her. The
illusions in general shine to the best advantage,
and the biographic part of the entertainment,
with a new series of pictures on the sheet, gives
the audience a lively quarter of an hour, whilst
the wizard lapses into slumber behind the scenes.
** * *
Melbourne’s musical circles, likewise the
outer circles of the community, will soon be
agitated by the re-appearance of Miss Maggie
Stirling, one of the most likeable of singers before
she went to Europe, and now an artist of greater
magnitude. A mezzo-soprano the last time she
warbled at the Town Hall, the imposing lady will
come back in a contralto capacity, according
to the advt.. which is otherwise calculated to
make Miss Maggie Stirling a highly interesting
Eersonage when she arrives. The date of
er first is not yet fixed, but it will be broken
gently to the public as soon as possible. Mean-
while there are other things on the Town Hall
board. Reginald Ford, late of the Antarctic
Ocean, lectures there to-morrow (Friday) night,
and on Saturday afternoon the Ormond Professor,
whose paternal name is Peterson, will give an
orchestral concert. Also, Hal Cohen, a tall and
beauteous tenor (who ought to be a better man
than Louis Arens in opera one day, but makes no
earnest endeavor to get there), is to give recitals
to-day (14th), and Thursday next, at Glen’s
Concert Hall.
** * *
A trio of wonder-workers who meant to
appear at Melbourne Opera House last Saturday
were unavoidably postponed owing to the illness
of their leading man. In their absence Miss
Florence Ghallis had her name in larger type than
the other and older members of the fleeting co.,
but it is understood that the recent arrivals from
the Old World will be able to start their miracles
this week.
#m * *
The Gilbert and Sullivan Co. has been
doing good work and good business at Adelaide
Royal with two or three nights each of the famous
operas. The casting varies greatly among the
men ; but a co. that can do justice to “ The Gon-
doliers,” with its two funny men and three each
of heroes and heroines, can manage many things.
Vernon is always prominent, Kenningham and
Frank Wilson drop into and out of leading parts,
and John Ralston is a highly ornamental person
with a sense of humor that the good-looking sel-
dom possess. At the Tivoli, Sheridan works hard
and successfully. He apologises with “ I beg your
pudden,” and the house roars ; he dances a minuet
and falls down, and it yells; he imagines wild
monkeys biting him, and it rocks with laughter.
But the bill has been changed to “ Mrs. Dooley’s
Joke,” and John F. is to be seen as a man mas-
querading as a woman, who is masquerading as
another woman. The Conservatorium has brought
itself right up to date by producing Elgar’s
“Banner of St. George,” and the public insisted
on its being repeated. Frank Clark’s variety co.
has gone into the country towns, where Dan Barry
is also reported to be shedding as much gore as
local taste will stand ; and it can stand a lot.
“ Janny ” Leahy said some things worthy
of him during a recent speech in the Queensland
Assembly. Said the sour man of the Opposition:
“We’ve heard lots about the possibilities of sisal
fibre as a crop lately. It is said it will yield a re-
turn of £2O per acre. Why doesn’t the Govern-
ment plant the 400 million acres of Crown Lands
with it,, and in one year they would thus earn
£8,000,000,000?” The House was too disgusted at
Leahy’s idiocy to even smile.
“THE J.P.”
There’s the bacheloric Uncle, gay and giddy on the sly
(You know that grey-haired sinner very well),
And the nephew who expects to get his riches by-and-by ;
Lo ! We find them at a wonderful hotel,
Where the bedrooms are located off the foyer, left and
right,
And the staircase is theatrically set,
And the boarders meet together in the morning, noon and
night,
As no mortals, save in fiction, ever met.
The strangest disorders
Occur among boarders
Concerned in a farcical comedy plot;
The fall of the curtain
Leaves nothing quite certain,
Except that what could be was certainly not.
The nephew being married, dreads the wealthy Uncle’s
rage,
So his wife adopts a he-minine disguise ;
And she fools the gay old rooster (comic Uncles on the
stage
Have an easily deluded pair of eyes).
The matron in the trousers gets a frisky little Kate
To carry on with Uncle, which is sad,
For Kate has lately taken to herself an actor mate
And her conduct sends that actor raving mad.
How oddly presented
Are bridegrooms demented—
How simply outrageous in method and mien !
No person distracted
So madly has acted
Except in a farcical comedy scene.
There’s a majah, and a maiden, and a waitress now and
then,
And a baby with an automatic yell,
To intensify the troubles of the women and the men
At the Lunatic Elysium Hotel.
And when the storm is over, and you call it back to mind,
You know what all the crazy people lacked.
They gave you “ situations ” of the nigger-minstrel kind
But they"didn’t have their countenances blacked.
The one thing that’s lacking
Is burnt-corky blacking
Which Christy, the Minstrel, so artfully planned.
Burnt cork (thinks the writer)
Makes humor seem lighter
In show's of the shoot-about farcical brand.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A Melbourne weekly vaguely remarked of the recent
“romantic farce” played by Nellie Stewart and co. that
“ the dressing was of the Louis period." There would be
just as much information in the statement that the period
of an English historical drama was in the time of the
Edwards.
Launceston is just recovering its equanimity after two
nights of riotous dissipation, consequent upon the one-
third-of-a-week season of the Nellie Stewart Company. It
is over six months since the dirty little Academy of
Music was last enlivened by anything more than a variety
show or an amateur performance—the kind of thing to
send one home in a sad, meditative frame of mind. Con-
sequently when “Sweet Nell” was announced all Laun-
ceston that isn’t Methodist turned out to witness the
gallantries of Charles Rex. In some cases the wild young
rakes of the town started quite early in the afternoon,
indulging, en route, in the wildest excesses in the way of
tea and cakes at a sixpenny tea-room. Launceston
doesn’t often let itself go, but when it does—oh, it’s a fair
devil ! Mentally, it has been comparing itself with Paris
or London, or something equally naughty and gay. And
this is quite natural, it being the kind of place where the
customary excitements of the day are to attend the dog-
show, or watch the goods train shunting.
One local product, at any rate, is encouraged at Col-
lingwood (Melb.), as witness this announcement
“SOMETHING FOR THE GIRLS.
“Mothers, Read This!
“ The Director of the Wednesday Concerts at the Col-
lingwood Town Hall, in response to many requests to
Think of the Girls, has decided to give a prize of Ten
Shillings to the girl who has the best head of hair. It not
being necessary that a girl should have long hair, but
that judged to be the best. In order to give a fair award,
the Director has secured the services of two experts in
hair to be the Judges, and their decision will be final.
Three Entries, for which No Charge is made, or no Com-
petition. Age of girls, between 10 and 14 years.
“ Bring Your Girls, This is a Genuine Competition.”
After all, the public will suffer less from a competition of
this sort than from hearing 15 infant phenomena recite
in turn “ Curfew Shall Not Bang To-night.” And the girl
who wins will not think it absolutely necessary to have a
benefit, and then go to Europe to have her hair trained.
“ K.” : I see it stated that “ Edna Slay, the young
American girl, who for the past few years has been one of
the most popular actresses on the London stage, has re-
turned to New York.” For how many more years is the
fair Edna going to remain “a young American girl”?
One of her recent appearances was made in the Divorce
Court, where she successfully petitioned for a dissolution
of her marriage. The term “ girl ” holds good for a long
time, like the term “ boy,” which women have artfully
adopted for describing men of uncertain age. But
“young girl” is ordinarily accepted as a definite state-
ment of youthfulness.
Tom Fitzgerald’s success with the circus in Java seems
to have attracted a wild rush of circuses to the island.
Recently there were six companies spreading their tents
on Java soil, and the local aristocracy, who are more often
Chows than Dutchmen, complained that the piebald gee-
gee with the spangled siren on its back was growing
monotonous.
A travelling showman struck Auckland (M.L.) lately
With “ two of the smallest calves in the world.” They
were preserved in a bottle, and were valued at £lOO. A
small boy stole the bottle, but was apprehended, and the
frantic showman almost wept for joy on recovering his
miniature dead beefs.
At a recent “ At Home,” given at Sydney Art Society,
a local musical celebrity undertook the entertainment
programme. It included a piece by Tschaikowsky, another
by Massenet, and all the rest by the musical celebrity
himself. The condescension of the local celebrity in not
insisting on composing the whole of the programme is to
be admired.
Melbourne Age notice of Thurston’s first appearance at
the Athenaeum Hall contained a crushing, but quite
unconscious, indictment of the local water supply.
Touching Thurston’s wet gii'ly illusion the Age man said
“ A glass tank is half-filled with hot discolored water.
The tank is covered with a cloth and almost instantly un-
covered, and the young woman aforesaid is seen basking
at the bottom of the tank, while nobody has seen her
approach.” Which suggests that the water is discolored
for the purnose of concealing the mechanism of the trick,
or for keeping the girl dark what time she reclines
serenely at the far side of the tank. The absurdity of the
suggestion would strike anyone who remembers that no
fluid less black than ink could serve to conceal a body
from view in a limelit tank. It is ordinary Yan Yean
water.
Nellie Stewart acts the Marquis de Treville. He was
the handsomest man in France. Marteau and Tourbilly
were walking on the Boulevard, when Marteau wagered
four louis that he would kick any gentleman pointed
out. Tourbilly accordingly designated a stranger. Mar-
teau went and kicked him. When the gentleman turned,
Marteau said, “ Beg pardon, I took you for my friend,
the Marquis de Treville.” The stranger bowed, smiled a
smile of vanity, and passed on.
That most ladylike of tenors, Walter Kirby, is a made
man in London if he can keep his health and his head.
The duchesses have claimed him for their own dear
Walter, and Tit Bits Newnes, after cruising the young
man on his yacht, declared that the Australian voice had
given him “ mad delight ” upon the rolling deep.
Whether the madness of Newnes is an entirely genuine
emotion, or merely the result of Walter being adored by
duchesses, it will be an equally valuable newspaper force
for the singer. All this goes to show that the little crowd
of Melbourne society women who swore by little Kirby,
and worked up a benefit concert for him, were not swearing
in vain. The men almost unanimously under-rated his
voice because they disliked his effeminate, ultra-senti-
mental style, with its half-subdued affectation of sighful
airs and graces. Probably Melba, having a decidedly
masculine frame of mind, took the men’s view of Walter
Kirby, but her expert ear was not to be prejudiced.
When he sang to her she said, “ You’ll do—you have
some beautiful notes. How much money have you got ?
Walter stated the amount, and the diva, pursing her lips,
said, “Yes, that will do.” And apparently it did.
Firstly, he went to Europe ; secondly, he procured further
voice-tuition; and then he “arrived.” The thing is to
arrive.
There are so many 7 Tait brothers associated with music
and other show business in Melbourne that the latest
member of the clan is appearing in print under an alias.
“ Frank Stetson,” who figures as manager (for Mr. Tait) of
the Jessie Maclachlan concerts, is the most recent lait
acting for one of the previous Taits. The next two or
three brothers who come along will presumably repeat
the name of Stetson, with distinguishing initials, leaving
the third, fourth and fifth detachments of the intermin-
able brotherhood to adopt new aliases. Up to a certain
number, a well-known name is a good trade-mark for a
family of such identities, but beyond that number it
creates confusion. The line in this case has been drawn
at Tait the Fourth, treasurer at Her Majesty s, Melbourne.
Tait the First—the Napoleon of them —is the one in Allan
and Co. Taits the Second and Third are partners in con-
cert management, and have just now a promising spec, in
the Maggie Stirling Concert Co.


“Melb.”: What a delicious little genre Miss Stewarts
“’Op o’My Thumb ” is. And what audacious trash she
makes to go in the “Marquis de Treville.” “’Op o’ My
Thumb,” however, embodies good thinking and writing as
well db acting. It is better than Swiveller’s Marchioness,
more truthful. The idea of staging such a chip of real
life, without any nonsense of conventionality, or happy
ending mullock, comes partly from Ibsen but more con-
siderably from the productions of M. Antoine, at the
Parisian Theatre Libre.
The Australian singing girl who thinks of going over to
England with £5O or £lOO in hand should (writes a London
correspondent) bear in mind the case of Melbourne soprano
Mary Conly. That tuneful lady has just the voice that
English oratorio societies require, full, facile, and of a
beautiful velvet quality. She can sing music that the best
of the English sopranos cannot touch, and she has consci-
entiously wiped out her early faults of interpretation. On
her very first appearance in London her name was coupled
with that of Clara Butt for the honors of the evening, and
she has since scored a bundle of notices that very few
singers could rival. Yet, after three years before the
public, she is only just beginning to get within measur-
able distance of the big festival work for which her voice
and manner are so well fitted. Madame Conly had at
least enough money to see her through a year or two in
Fogtown, and if her really fine vocal stock-in-trade is only
now developing in favor, what is to become of the small
suburban singers who so constantly rush off Europewards
with £2O or £3O over and above their steamer fare ?
Miss Florence Lloyd, just arrived with the “ T.P.'
Comedy Co., is somewhere referred to as “the original
‘Gaiety Girl’ who visited Australia in 1895.” The descrip-
tion is confusing. Miss Lloyd was a member of the com-
pany that played “ A Gaiety Girl,” but she didn’t take the
name-part in that early musical comedy Blanche Massey
was the Gaiety Girl. Miss Lloyd made her mark in a sub-
sequent piece—“ In Town”—as a handsome young
johnnie, and the she-male line of character has been suit-
ing her ever since, seemingly. She plays a boy part in
“ T.P.”
“Petramos ” : The late “ Pete ” Hughes was beloved of
pressmen, and he seemed to love them in return. At
Adelaide one night a scribe attached to one of the dailies,
who had been consuming liquid beer, zig-zagged round
the town, gathering lady acquaintances as he went. He
collected seven altogether, and trotted the bundle of
blushes and curls to the Theatre Royal. And Pete just
smiled and passed the whole lot into the four-shilling
seats.
Any lady who thinks of writing plays should first get a
“ personal ” journalist for husband. T. P. O’Connor, the
eminent soft-sawder expert, does not hesitate at printing
this about his wife’s claims as a dramatist: —“The most
remarkable quality in the very remarkable mind of Mrs.
O’Connor is its lightning-like rapidity of observation....
This quickness of observation makes her an ideal critic.
She can tell offhand the merits of a book, the qualities of
an actor, the beauties or weakness of a voice, of a play, of
an instrumental performance ; and this after a very brief
examination. Next to this extraordinary rapidity of
observation comes her sehse of the humorous and the
dramatic. She will, one day, I hope and believe, take her
place among the brilliant dramatists of her_time.” _
Madame Bauermeister, an old identity of the Grand
Opera stage in London, had a farewell matinee at Covent
Garden the other week. Bauermeister dates back as a
performer to 1866, when she appeared in “ Dinorah” with
lima de MUrska. A German girl who got her musical
education in England, she was “ taken up ” by the famous
Tietjens, and, although she hadn’t a fine enough voice for
star parts, she made a solid reputation as a secondary
-soprano in the best of company. Probably she earned
more money at 50 than at 25, not because her
voice had improved, but because prices had gone up in
the meantime. For instance, her patroness Tietjens was
a supreme attraction when Bauermeister was a young
singer. Well, Tietjens, at the height of her reputation,
leased her services to Mapleson, the manager of Her
Majesty’s Theatre, London, for a salary of £l5O a week,
appearing two or three times a week in opera during the
London season, and elsewhere, at other times, as he might
arrange. No American tours. A guaranteed income of
£7BOO a year under a contract which made the prima-
donna quite subservient to the manager. Twenty years
later she might have earned a lot more money with half
the trouble.
A recent auction of Mrs. Brown Potter’s household
effects put some interesting items on the catalogue. A
lovely Chinese screen had been given to the lady by Li
Hung Chang. A full length portrait of herself as Miladi
in “ The Three Musketeers ’.’ was a valuable painting, and
among her books there were some very desirable presen-
tation copies and rare editions. A fashionable actress
with a useful circle of acquaintances is worth a good deal
when she comes to be “ sold up.” But, alas ! she doesn’t
accumulate a second lot of possessions as a rule.
Among the “ turns ” engaged by Rickards in his present
quest of “ the very best talent, ladies and gentlemen,”
the. re-imported Jackson Family should be particularly
interesting. The clever musical Jacksons are young
people who gave promise of rapid development in their
work—individual and collective—the first time Australia
heard them. The elder of the two brothers is under 30,
and the two girls hardly out of their teens —a quartette
of musicians ripening on the Family tree, with nothing to
learn in the art of playing down to music-hall audiences.
After much persecution from the stage villain, Beatrice
Holloway and Robert Inman (both in the bellowdrama
business) have at length succumbed. The two are now
ill. The bad actor and actress season is now on. The
Royal Comics had hard luck in Adelaide with its stock of
invalids, and Aggie Thorne and Kenningham have both
been sick and out of the caste of the Reportoire Co. since
it has heen in Tortoise Town.
“P.S.”: Howard Vernon in his old age reaps a new
crop of popularity from being the Australian original of
characters which have become classics since the younger
half of the public was born. The revival of Gilbertian
opera created a demand for the re-engagement of Vernon.
He has the name and he continues to act up to it. He
even succeeds in singing up to it—but the warble is of
minor importance, anyhow. He’s the Australian original
of all the Gilbertian characters he plays, except the Lord
Chancellor in “lolanthe.” Robert Brough was the first
Chancellor. And Frank Thornton took the part in
Melbourne before Vernon had touched it.
“ Mofussil ” : With Thurston about one recalls Indian
juggling. A baffler is when the Wizard pours water on
the floor, and yet the floor is not wetted. Another trick is
making a handful of coins, given by any spectator, dance
on the floor. The necromancer does these things at your
house, or anywhere. He must have the skull of a sacred
monkey as a charm. One would think the great jugglers
hypnotise their audiences.
J. J. Dallas, of the Strand Theatre Comedy Co., has had
prominent parts in London musical productions for the
last 25 years. He was associated with Nellie Barren,
Kate Vaughan, Royce, and Edward Terry in Gaiety bur-
lesque. Later, he was in the original casts of “ The Old
Guard,” and other musical plays, and created Gilbertian
parts in America. Dallas has also collaborated in the
writing of various plays, including “The School Girl”
and “ The Wishing Well.”
It is not often a man sees in print, after an interval of
half a century, the love letters and sweet nothings he
wrote to his girl a Jubilee ago. A Sydney paper has
resurrected the tender epistles of the stage patriarch,
George Coppin, and the then leading lady, Fanny Cath-
cart. Just before her marriage with Robert Heir, Mr.
Coppin made proposals, which were rejected, and the lady
broke her engagement as leading lady to G. V. Brooke,
married Heir, and went to play at the Theatre Royal,
Melbourne. Coppin succeeded in getting an injunction
from the Supreme Court to prevent her playing anywhere
but under his management, the judge holding- that his
offer of marriage was not a ground for breaking the
engagement.
“ J.A.C.” : Re cat yarn in “ Poverty Point” (8., 7/8/’O5).
Actor No. 1 and Actor No. 2 are probably both correct.
In the pantomime in which the team of cats figured there
were two clowns —the two named, Darbyshire and
Lewis. It is, however, an error to say that
Darbyshire, in conjunction with Stanley, took a
juvenile co. to England. The company in question
consisted in a great measure of ex-members of
Mr. G. B. W. Lewis’s original Juvenile Co.
They were trained by Darbyshire, and not long before the
Pollards were heard of, either. Stanley, who had been
an actor, and afterwards a panorama lecturer, joined
Darbyshire in the venture, and there was a third partner,
named Farmer. The co., which included Flora Graupner,
toured Australasia, and afterwards went to India, but, if
I remember rightly, Darbyshire died before that. Darby-
shire was a Melbournite, and originally a tailor. He
learned dancing, and became, after a fashion, a ballet-
master, and was also a member of W. S, Lyster’s chorus.
Thistle Anderson, since her accident, has been going
about Adelaide with her arm done up elegantly in a sling.
Had it been Shylie Blue (Sammy Way’s step-daughter),
all social Adelaide would have broken its arm, or anyhow
gone about with one extremity in a siing.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth has a permanent naval
force of 175 individuals (Victoria supplies 108,
Queensland 42, S.A. 22, N.S.W. three , and Tas-
mania and W.A. none), and it has a naval militia
of 1104 persons. And S.A. has thrown into the
pool the aged and humorous gunboat Protector.
Maoriland’s New Liberal party, consisting
of four members and a dog, was nicknamed the
New Libel party when it went on tour, and the
name turns out to have been prophetic. Jeremiah
Twomey, the peppery Irishman who runs Temuka
Leader, went for the crowd bald-headed, and
“Tommy” Taylor, Fisher, and Bedford are
asking Jeremiah for £lOOO apiece as libel damages.
Taylor is also proceeding against Dunedin Even-
ing Star for a like amount. There is an unusual
amount of sulphur in the Maoriland air just now.
Thus Labor member Maughan in Queens-
land Assembly :
Something must be done to provide work for our young
people, and land settlement is not the only solution,
although it will do a great deal to solve it. We talk about
our wonderful resources ; but what we should pay some
attention to at the present tithe is the manufacturing of
those articles which can be made in the State. There are
commercial travellers from Maoriland going round to
firms here, and surely what Maoriland can do we can do !
They are selling agricultural implements, and are able to
place them on the market in Queensland, and whenever
I see the truck loads of these articles going up to the
Darling Downs and West Moreton, it makes me think
there is something wrong with the system which tolerates
it. That is work that could be done by our boys and
girls and young men and our artisans, instead of walking
idly about the streets and blocking up the footpaths in
Brisbane. We call ourselves a Labor party; let us be
Labor in deed as well as in name !
How long is it since any member of the N.S.W.
Labor party has spoken in tones like these 1
Mr. Spruce Myth struck a snag the other
night. He was announced to give a lecture before
the Women’s Empire League on “Immigration,”
and he was not very long on his legs when he
strayed into ad vocacy of the importation of niggers.
Then Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., took a hand and gave
the lecturer a bad quarter of an hour, presenting
the case for a White Australia much to the satis-
faction of the majority of his audience. He was
followed by P. J. Macnamara, who told the meet-
ing that, if the Australian people were determined
on anything, it was to keep their breed pure and
fill the waste places of the continent with white
people only, and that, if necessary, they were pre-
pared to fight for a white continent. The climax
was reached when Mrs. Dixson (president) declared
that she would be horrified if a daughter of hers
proposed to marry an Asiatic. B. Smith took his
rebuff with a very bad grace. Where is he to
expect sympathy if the Women’s Empire League
turns on him and rends him ?
Australia is still waiting for information
on two points : In the first place, it wants to hear
that Premier Morgan, of Queensland, has com-
pelled Agent-General Tozer to supply particulars
of the “ £20,000,000 or £40,0Q0,000 ” which he said
would have been invested in Australia but for
Socialistic legislation—it wants to know who owns
the money, what it was going to be invested in,
and what particular legislation prevented it being
invested ? Secondly, it wants to hear that the P.
and O. Co. has been called to account for inform-
ing its passengers that, when the vessel arrived at
an Australian port, “even a single cigar or
cigarette found in the possession of any passenger
or member of the crew would be interpreted as
evidence of an intention to smuggle.” If the P.
and O. Co. is not responsible for that malevolent
slander, then it must be the work of some unautho-
rised person in the company’s employ, and the
company should be called upon to explain how
long that person is going to remain in its employ.
If he is going to remain permanently, then the P.
and O. Co. should be told to go elsewhere.
From the Australian Parliamentary lobby :
You miss the gem of tKe whole collection in your
“ Souvenir of Federation ” (31/8/’O5). Lyne having cabled
Chamberlain a piteous appeal that Hopetoun should
reside in Sydney, repeated the cable to Barton next day,
adding (in effect), “Ram it in for all you’re worth.”
Barton, hampered by some federal scruple, cabled back
(in effect), “ There’ll be the devil to pay unless I tell my
fellow-delegates. The Agent-General had better do this
job.” To which Lyne replies (in effect), “ Tell anyone
sooner than the delegates. If you can’t move yourself,
lay the Agent-General on instead.” So the Agent-General
calls on Chamberlain, but Chamberlain lies low. Then
Lyne falls back on his reserves and cables (in effect),
“ Whip in Lord Jersey; this is very urgent, and fake a
cable.” The poor Agent-General cables back (in effect),
“ Can’t fake the cable because they have the original, and
Jersey won’t be seen with me.” The curtain drops on
Jersey and Barton sooling the unfortunate Agent-General
on to a job they daren’t disclose to the other delegates ;
and Chamberlain with a sardonic smile asking for “a
unanimous decision from the States.”
President Chas. Atkins lately gave Melb.
Chamber of Manufactures a few solid facts about
how Britain built up its industries. So recently
as early in the late Queen’s reign Britain levied
Customs duties of 6d. a lb. on wool; woollen
goods, 50 per cent. ; tallow candles, £3 3s. 4d. per
cwt. ; wax candles, 2s. 6d. a lb. ; linen, chequered
or striped, 172 J per cent.; glassware, 80 per cent. ;
earthenware, 75 per cent. ; straw hats, £6 16s. per
dozen ; dressed hides and leather articles, 75 per
cent. ; ships, 50 per cent.; starch, £9 10s. per
cwt. ; oil (English catch) £8 6s. 3d. per ton,
(foreign catch) £33 ss. per ton ; sugar, £8 Bs. per
cwt. ; wrought iron and steel, 50 per cent. ; and
most of these duties were doubled and even
trebled if the goods were imported in foreign ships !
Moreover, Britain prohibited the export of any
wool, cotton or silk-making machinery—penalty
£5OO and confiscation of the ship—and it was
also a criminal offence to encourage or entice any
artisan out of the country ! Britain may be Free-
trade to-day, but it didn’t build up its industries
under Freetrade.
Mr. E. A. Pollard, whose skill in keep-
ing “juvenile” stars before the public until they
are old enough to be grandmothers is recognised
in Australia, has been talking politics to a
Canadian paper ; and he evidently hasn’t even a
juvenile knowledge of Australian politics. Some
extracts from his yarn :
Australia is in a most deplorable condition. Trade is at
a standstill, commerce paralysed, and the country is
rapidly becoming depopulated . . . The Melbourne station
(presumably the railway station is meant, though Mel-
bourne hasn’t as yet got a railway station of any more
dignity than a chain of sheds) was built much too large
for the requirements of the country and scores of its
rooms, fitted up at enormous expense, are empty . . •
The baneful influence of the Labor agitators has had the
worst effect upon the country.
And so on through a series of ridiculous false-
hoods. But Mr. Pollard is at least to be thanked
for this : he didn’t mention that in Australia all
hatters were drowned on landing—by the Prime
Minister in person with the assistance of the Labor
party.
There are now in Queensland 221 regis-
tered white-labor and 88 black-labor cane-growers.
“ San Remo ” : Now that Australia has
definitely retired from the cricket business, per-
haps some attention will be given to defence !
“Mary G.” : Be the tropical labor ques-
tion, and the statement that degeneration sets in
for white folk after a generation or two in the
tropics, the same thing is said of London. But
we do not hear any shuddersome cries against a
“white London.”
Chow Africa pays dearly for the privilege
of supporting Cohen’s 40,000 Chinese slaves.
Some time back, several of the coolies “broke
compound,” raided a farm, killed the proprietor
and brutally maltreated his wife and child. The
murderers are still at large. A little later, an-
other batch looted a farm and got clear. Now
the whole country goes about its business in
ghastly terror of roving bands of yellow mur-
derers and bandits, and every other week the
white population gathers together to clamor for
more police protection. Matters have got so
warm about Witwatersrand that High Commis-
sioner Selborne, the other day, granted permis-
sion to all whites in the locality to keep fire-
arms for the defence of themselves and families.
Since then, it is reported that some Chinese who
had “escaped from the mines” killed a black
man and cut him to pieces. “Escaped from the
mines” sounds like either slavery or imprison-
ment, or a little of both. Nobody says of a free
citizen that he escaped from his office, for in-
stance.
A letter from Westralia :
Westralian Assembly has tied itself in a tight knot.
Elected over a year ago, its 50 members found themselves
about equally divided ; so four of them, under Charlie
Moran’s leadership, formed a section of their own, and
started skirmishing on behalf of the Labor party, which
was thereby enabled to bump out the James Ministry.
Daglish, a gaunt, dreary person, managed to get the leader-
ship, and so stepped into James’s shoes. His first official
act was to appoint James Agent-General at £l5OO per an-
num for three years, which cleared the field of an awkward
opponent and deprived the Opposition of its best fighter.
Then Daglish sat down to do as little work as possible,
and he succeeded admirably. His mark-time policy
•gradually became a dead march, and the country has
withered and dried up. In caucus his following at last
broke into mutiny, and some exciting scenes were enacted,
the culmination of which was the wholesale desertion of
his party when the proposal for the Midland Railway pur-
chase was tabled. Then Daglish resigned, and Rason, in
his ravenous hunger for office, started to form a Ministry
as though he had a majority at his back. As a matter of
fact, Rason is in a far worse position than Daglish.
Rason’s force nominally consists of 23, but he has no
assurance that they will follow him. Nothing short of a
dissolution will untie the knot.
Thus the irrepressible Owe’Sullivan in a
column-long, grateful tribute to the Reform party
for keeping up his borrowing policy :
The non-borrowing faddists are now seldom to be heard
in our public life. Their misstatements and their cry
“ Retrenchment or Ruin ” served their purpose very well
during the recent general election, but they appear to be
forgotten by those who were elected to Parliament on
them. The electors must now perceive how little sin-
cerity there was in this movement for economy, and that
it is utterly impossible for a new country like New South
Wales to. do without a fair amount of loan money for re-
productive works.
Where, indeed, are those whose solemn promise
to the electors that they would battle against the
loan disease won them the way into Parliament ?
By the way, if the non-borrower in public life is a
faddist, what does the Owe’Sullivan call the non-
borrower in private life ? Is he a faddist, too ? If
not, why not ? Why should the pawnshop be the
natural and desirable haven of refuge for the
nation and not for the individual?
Victorian Attorney-General Davies, M.L.C.,
isn’t troubled by any foolish etiquette about the
Ministry speaking with one voice. As Minister
in charge of the Water Bill in the House of Land-
lords, he enthusiastically denounced the clause
providing for the payment of 7s. per day to men
engaged in building irrigation works, and helped
to get it thrown out by 17 votes to 5.
When Tory Philp was denouncing the
Morgan G overnment, during the financial debate
in Queensland Parliament, he was asked to say
what he would do, the interjector reminding him
that any fool could pull down a house. In a
moment of desperation he exclaimed : “I would
sell all the land in Queensland. At anyrate,
enough to pay our £40,000,000 of national debt;
getting rid of £10,000,000 worth every year.”
Philp did nothing while he was in office save
borrow and vegetate and have vast deficits, but
the things l Wj thinks he would do if he got back to
office beat 1 -on Munschausen hollow, and leave
that noble 1. •, Bishop Poiitoppidan, panting in
the rear.
R. J. Alcock, boss of a big Melbourne
firm, and a conspicuous Conservative influence,
made a cheeky suggestion to the Minister for Cus-
toms the other day in connection with the Com-
merce Bill. The Bill demands that all packets,
tins, bottles, etc., containing goods are to be
marked with the correct weight of their contents.
R. ,T. Alcock suggests, however, that it would be suf-
ficient for the law if the manufacturer states frankly
to the shopkeeper that there is only 14oz. of jam
or butter or pickles in his alleged lib. tin. The
idea is that the manufacturer must tell the middle-
man there is only 14oz. in the tin marked 160 z.,
but the confounded consumer can be left to find
out for himself. As the Bill is mainly to protect
the consumer, and the consumer is the only person
really victimised by short weight, the Alcock
notion of business ethics is not likely to commend
itself to any but the good kind gentlemen who
wish to be paid for 2oz. of nothing.
(“Political Points” continued on page 22.)
Paddington (Sydney) municipal council has
disfigured one of the dials of its new town clock
with the absurd and ignorant inscription' ‘ Edward us
the VII." When an alderman wants to advertise
his “Majesty” in a decomposed language, he
should at least see to its accuracy.
Left to themselves, the black-and-tan aliens
in Chow Africa would soon paint the situation
red, seemingly. The other day, a band of Chow
coolies “ escaped ” from the mine “compounds,”
and attacked a party of Hindu hawkers, with a
view to reducing the population. One of the*
Hindus was disembowelled before 20 of the Chows
were captured and taken back to servitude. The
next thing to expect in the kingdom of Goldstein,
whereof the capital is Jewhannesburg, will be a
murder of Kaffirs by the yellow newchums. After
which the Kaffirs will storm the compounds, and
the blessings of British rule in the Transvaal will
be more pronounced than ever.
ART GRITIO.
“ Why, he's got'is
fiddle hupside-
down!”
At the current Melb. Agricultural Show
they have 20 girls each working her sewing
machine, and showing how she devotes her ex-
istence to making the twentieth part of a boot.
E. C. Kempe, who died in S.A. recently,
suffered from cancer. Learning a few months
ago that it was impossible for him to live, he
fixed up all his business matters, and even made a
700-miles journey to Peak Station with his death-
warrant in his pocket, so to speak, to arrange
matters there. He made all his preparations as
methodically as if he were going for a long holiday.
Rev. Bleeds Fitch ett, since he went to
England, fills two columns of the Argus every
Saturday morning with impressions of his trip,
and runs into curious maunderings like these
(Argus 2/9/’O3)
We are looked at through the lens of the Six Hatters.
■You deliberately shut out even your British fellow-
citizens, as witness the immortal Six Hatters.
The business of the Six Hatters was no doubt a blunder.
Australian politics (in regard to the Six Hatters) are
sorely perplexing the imagination of Great Britain.
There are few lessons which Australia has more need to
learn than the disastrous effect which political follies of a
certain type ( i.e ., Six Hatters) have on its political repu-
tation and its commercial credit with the outside world.
That makes Thirty Hatters in ten lines—three
Hatters per line.
The divorce suit of Brighouse v. Brighouse,
(husband’s petition), heard at Auckland (M.L.),
disclosed that petitioner was a Salvationist, who
blew' the cornet o’ nights, while his wife was his
antithesis, being a worldly woman, addicted to
dances and midnight shivoos. His work in the
bush took him away a good deal, and his wife gave
parties to the elite of Kaeo in his absence. As his
screw of 50s. a week wouldn’t stand that racket,
he resolved to leave ungodly Kaeo and build a
home elsewhere. His wife was to follow, but
didn’t, sending him nasty correspondence instead.
Being a bit of an artist, the lady also forwarded a
cartoon of her husband mounted on a box, and
blowing a cornet in front of a curious-looking
crowd. Appended was the following, set to
music:—
Oh, ’tis true, ’tis true, I’ve got a billet in the Army,
For, strike me fat, I say, that I have changed to-day
From a Mollie into a Saliy ;
Oh, ’tis true, ’tis true, I blow like blazes in the Army.
His Honor granted a di oree nisi as soon as he saw
he poetry.
Died recently, August Englehardt, founder
and last survivor of that queer set of cranks, the
“ Sun Brothers.” In 1901 Englehardt, a German,
purchased the island of Kabakon, in the Duke of
York Group, and started out to demonstrate a
theory, with two followers. Max Lutzrow and
Heinrich Enkens. The “ Sun Brothers ” wore no
clothing, lived solely on cocoanuts, and spent their
days in the sun, and their nights on the beach
sand. The chief aim of the sect being to “ over-
come sickness and death, and become like God him-
self,” the propagation of the race was Considered
unnecessary. Marriage, therefore, was prohibited.
The theory got a rude shock when the nude
Enkens, weakened by cocoanut diet and “open-
air treatment,” died of malaria. Next, the un-
dressed Lutzrow was swept out to sea in a boat,
and was dead when the craft was recovered. This
calamity was too much for Englehardt, and he
just sat down on his empty island with nothing
on, and slowly faded away from loneliness and dis-
appointment. The Government medical officer
from German Papua went over, the other day, to
bring him back to civilisation, but as the launch
left the island the first and final Sun Brother took
a long, lingering look at his kingdom, and passed
away.
“ 0.K.” from Melbourne :
The latest case of assault and robbery in Bourke-street,
Melbourne, was surprising to such as are not familiar
with the character of that central thoroughfare at night.
A harmless middle-aged citizen, making his way up the
Bourke-street hill from Elizabeth-street, at 11.30 p.m. on
a Saturday, was knocked down, kicked into a state of
insensibility, robbed of his overcoat and boots , and left
lying on the footpath to be eventually discovered by a
“ constabulary patrol.” The strange part of the story lies
in the fact that the discovery was made by the police.
The east end of Bourke-street always appears to
be haunted at night by scores of lounging, skulking
young ruffians from whom the police have care-
fully hidden themselves. What time the respectable
public are going to the theatres thereabouts, and
again when the theatres are disgorging their audi-
ences, pedestrians provide their own security. Their
numerousness protects them. But at all other times
after 8 o’clock the heart of Melbourne city, especially the
part above Russell-street, is a likely spot for deeds of
violence, owing to the prevalence of expectorating black-
guardism, and the scarcity of the constables whose duty
it should be to keep the ugly loungers moving. A year
or two ago a jeweller’s shop was robbed, and the shop-
keeper bound and gagged, in Bourke-street at 9 o’clock.
There was a newspaper outcry on the subject, but the
outcry ceased, and the ill-looking night birds of Bourke-
street East have maintained their hold of the locality.
They are never moved on, nor in anyway molested, by the
police. Molestation is reserved for decent people in other
streets, where police officiousness is uncalled for, and
where nobody gets robbed of his clothes on the footpath.
The management of the Force, and the average moral
quality and intelligence of the individual constable, were
never so unsatisfactory as now, but—as though by way of
bluffing the disgusted public—a Police Carnival was held
at Melbourne Exhibition last week, Agricultural Show-
week, in order that visitors from the country might l,e
amazed and instructed by mimic captures of bushrangers
and totes.


DJ PETTICOAT.
White Madapolam,lndia
Linen Flounce,tucked and
trimmed. Cotton Torchon
Lace and Insertion.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS
IN THE COMMON WEALTH.
m
i a
f
« Jms
(biJSET.
EXQUISITE MODELS. J* PERFECT FIT,
# GUARANTEED WEAR. # *
THE NEW —.
P.D.
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY
OUT-GROWN.
KIT: “So you've chucked up jockeying, Nipper ?”
NIPPER: “ Yaas! It was all right while I was
a lad, hut I've out-growed it."
In S. Australia Mr. Public-house and the
Cold Tea Party are strenuously preparing to get
into holts over the liquor traffic question. The
fifteen years time compensation allowed to Mr.
Public-house expires at the end of 1906, and the
Cold Tea-ites propose to close down a large num-
ber of city hotels, but the licensees have other
views, and there will be beershed before all is
over. The Temperance Alliance is calling, in an
anxious voice, for the sinews of war, and its women
collectors are doing a house-to-house canvass in
the suburbs what time the bread-winner and beer-
drinker of the household is away. The collector
enlarges upon the ’orrors of der-rink,- and many
suburban housewives, remembering the last burst
the old man had, or—if he doesn’t drink—the
hypothetical burst he might have had, subscril e
sixpence or so to the encouragement of drought;
From a man who isn’t pleased by Tom
Roberts’ picture of the opening of the Federal
Parliament
It’s a wilderness oi ugliness and of impossibilities,
dotted here and there with a few oases of decent portrait-
ure. The Spook of York stands forward on an impractic-
able dais, faked up to an impossible physical altitude, and
reading a large crimson document to an audience which
was partly elsewhere. The Yorklet, with all the faking
that it was possible to introduce, merely looks like a
small apostrophe in the midst of a long and laborious
dissertation. Behind his very small nibs a horde of gold-
laced nobodies are placed, with the most careful atten-
tion given to the passementerie on their clothing. This
part of the canvas agony, where the people whose gar-
ments matter more than their intellects are depicted, is
very funny. The fussy, inconsequential Madden stands
out in the vanguard of Nobodydom, with all his millinery
in full blast. Dick Nevill, in a violent red coat, is also
thrown at the eyesight with much cruelty. The Men Who
Did Matter, the members of the Senate and the Reps.,
are thrown together in a dishevelled heap in the right-
hand corner. Viewed casually, their heads look
exactly like a shower of potatoes rushing down a
steep place. Reid and Mahon, neither of whom was really
present, are both given prominent positions, the coun-
tenance of the former being tinted a shockingly libellous
red. B. R. Wise is stuck cheek-by-jowl with Sammy
Way of South Australia, whereas he was very much
elsewhere in point of fact. The best legislative portraits
are those of Isaacs, I.yne, Symon, Deakin, Glynn, Mahon,
Bruce Smith, Knox, and Simian Phraser. Barton looks
unreal—a slim, idealised, fictitious kind of Toby ; and
Kingston’s portrait is villainous. John Forrest beams
violently behind Barton, and looks like the incarnate
blessing of Westralia, or language to that effect. Rady
Hopetoun, standing by the Spook’s right hand, is the best
thing in the picture. Her face is handled excellently,
but her ladyship’s legs (is this sedition ?) appear to have
been prolonged too much. Lord Hopetoun is painted-m
passably enough on York’s left hand ; and the other
people on the dais look as interesting as a herd of cows.
There is a fine group of portraits in the left hand lower
corner; those of Archbishop Carr and Greek boss
theologian Athanasius being extra good. Apart from
these few redeeming points, the whole affair is tawdry.
*•* * *
“ Two Seas ” complains :
N.S.W.’s Reform and Economy Government appears to
have given the police strict orders to keep a weather eye
upon all the old-age pensioners on their beats, for scarcely
a week passes without some poor old derelict being
brought up before a P.M. to have his pension cancelled
for wetting his “ draw ” with a beer. It’s a mean, scurvy
trick to strike the ancients off the rolls, even though the
process may lighten the annual deficit. If it is unlawful
for an old-age pensioner to “ give it a name,” why is the
civil-service pensioner allowed to breast the bar un-
molested ! Many of the old-age characters are so decrepit
that if you threw a beer-excise stamp at them they would
fall down, whilst a solitary beer crumples them up like a
wet sock. The other day a publican was fined for serving
an old-age pensioner with a beer. He was not drunk-
even the police didn’t charge him with that—so, after all
the gush in Parliament when the Act was passed about
the pension not being a charity, but a well-earned right,
it has come to this : For the purposes of the Licensing Act
a publican must regard all old-age pensioners as aborigi-
nes ! At the back-door of the pub. they must linger
together, waiting for a friendly agent to purchase a beer
for them —a sweet forbidden beer.
* * * *
“ S.S.” : I have discovered one woman
capable of taking a sensible view of the great
servant girl problem. She was a stout, com-
fortable-looking matron of about 30, and she
and two others, all in evening dress, were
helped into the south suburban (Melbourne)
railway carriage in which I was sitting by
a big, handsome, blonde savage who fled to
the smoker. The women started talking
servant girl, and the opinion of the other two
was that the average domestic is a special
creation of Satan’s, and possessed of many
devils. “What rubbish !” said the matron.
“When you do get good girls you can't keep
them. Why ? Because you’re so abominably
jealous of them. A pleasant girl is nearly
always rather attractive, and you’re all
frightened to death your husbands will find
it out. If you catch Tom or Harry being
ordinarily polite, off they must go. I never
have any trouble with my girls, and I insist
on Jack being nice to them. He must smile
on them, and pay an occasional compliment,
and perhaps give them a kiss or two. Bless
me ! It’s very little to give in return for
excellent service and a comfortable home.
Girls won’t stay because they like me, but
they will stay because they like Jack, and
when a nice girl leaves I always blame him.
It makes him more attentive.”
* * * •
“Reformer” : What turned the
Jews from farmers to financiers ? Inability
to get land in Babylon.
“Beau S.” : Adelaide is just now overrun
with folk connected with the medical profession;
they are here to attend the medical conference.
Top hats and frock coats blacken the streets, and
the other day, when a drunk reeled out of a
Rundle-street pub, and fell into the gutter and
lav there asleep, no less than 37 medical gen-
tlemen stepped forward to diagnose the case, and
after consultation pronounced him drunk. All
day long I am introduced to men with stetho-
scopes bulging on their persons, and last night it
was quite a relief when I met a friend accom-
panied by a stranger, and the latter proved to be
just Jones. These learned men who meet
periodically to swap germs are a weary lot.
* * * *
A colossal bronze statue of Christ has now
been standing for a year at a spot 14,000 ft. above
the sea near the Trans-Andean railroad, and on
the boundary between Chili and Argentina. The
figure holds a cross in one hand and points the
other to Heaven. The statue was made from
cannon contributed by the two nations. On its
base is an inscription stating that the Andes shall
crumble before Chili and Argentina go to war
with each other. The idea of this remarkable
appeal for peace came from Archbishop Benavente,
cf Buenos Ayres.
A NUDESCRIPTION.
“Do you mean the man on the right?" “No; the other. The man with the decollete' head! ”
Memories of an almost forgotten Tasmanian
tragedy were revived lately when a man named
Beckett accosted a Melbourne constable and de-
manded to be locked up for having slain someone,
or else he said he would destroy himself immedi-
ately in a great hurry. This being insulting
behavior within the meaning of the Act his request
was granted, and he was remanded for medical
examination. Investigation of his yarn shows
that it is quite possibly true. In November, 1897,
Beckett and one R. W. Small were making love
to the same lady at Avoca (Tas.), and when, on
November 25th, Small’s body was found in a
waterhole, with several large holes in the head,
Beckett, his fellow-worker on a station, was tried
at Launceston for the murder. The defence
chiefly relied on the plea that it was impossible
for the accused, a man of 9st., to drag a heavier
body 1J miles over fences and scrub, as was shown
to have been done. Anyhow, Beckett was
acquitted—to the disgust and disapprobation of
Sleepy Islanders. Now, Beckett Says he did
actually slay and kill Small, and wants to be kept
under restraint to save himself from the conse-
quences of remorse, or beer, or something.
• • • •
It is alleged that the S.M. Herald has
never, in its three generations of existence, de-
clined the publication of a letter beginning—“ The
Herald deserves the best thanks of the com-
munity for,” &c., &c.
The proposal to reconstruct the Chinese
quarter about Wexford-street, Sydney, where the
blessings of Asiatic cheap labor are so manifest
that it will cost a large sum to clean up the
heathen’s dirt, is an excellent one, but it is a pity
that it doesn’t go further. The scheme will pro-
vide a wide, clean street instead of a narrow, dirty
one, and it will certainly reduce the lamentable
death-rate of the locality, but it will do nothing to
repair the fact that Sydney looks oil the map like
a cobweb spun by a very incompetent spider in
reduced circumstances. A scheme is required for
the complete reconstruction of the city as a
metropolis of long, wide, straight avenues and
immense distances, and something should be
done every year towards working out the scheme.
Even if it took 30 years to finish the work it ought
to be going on all the time. Thirty years may
seem a long while to look forward, but if a Legis-
lature can’t see that distance ahead it should buy
a telescope.
A German who has just made a name for
himself in Victoria is Herman Schieblich. He
was caretaking on an orchard 20 miles out of the
city. While driving home in a spring cart he met
a woman —apparently the kind of woman that
everyone meets everywhere in Melbourne about
midnight. Schieblich took her out with him “to
do de vash und iron—noting else,” he explained
afterwards. But she never entered on her duties
as laundress of his one-room ed shebang. Schieblich
poured about five rums into her on the way. _ He
got stuck or bogged or something at a bad pinch
on the road. So he took the horse and the woman
out of the cart, and prepared to lead them
both to Diamond Creek township. The woman
was too drunk or too cold or too something.
She said she’d stay at the cart till he got
assistance. Schieblich gave her a cornsack
and with that over her she lay down and
waited. There were other cornsacks in the cart,
but they were wanted to keep the tea and sugar
dry. Schieblich had paid for the tea and sugar.
He trudged to the township, leading his horse,
and found the baker up making bread. He told
the baker some of the circumstances, but not
enough to properly agitate him. Bakers seem to
have tough nerves at one in the morning. Any-
how the baker said that he couldn’t leave his
bread. So Schieblich put his horse in the stable
and sat down in front of the fire. That particular
night was the worst there had been round Mel-
bourne for years. It rained, hailed, snowed, froz e
and blew. Next morning the German led his
horse up the road, hoisted a helpless, speechless
woman into his cart, and drove her to his humpy.
There he tried to give her hot tea. The reason
why she didn’t drink it was that she was dead.
* * * *
The struggle for the snatching of Adelaide s
teeth is desperately keen. Opposite the Ex-
change, in about the finest business site in the
city, there are, within four doors, the “British-
American Dentistry,” the “Dental Co. Limited,
and the “Dental Institute Limited.” Three
buildings along is the “ London Dental Institute,
and in between nestles a plain “ Dentist.”
THE SHAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peace has been declared between Russia and Japan.
Grief falls to-day on Russia not alone ;
Where’er the lamp of Europe lights the way,
The shade of shame upon its rays is thrown,
The light is dimmed by falling tears to-day ;
The traitors to their race may, chuckling, cheer ;
And urge the dupes to yelp in wild delight.
Yet both, alone, to face their thoughts sincere,
Feel in their hearts they are disgraced to-night.
The land that carried Europe’s banner first
Into the world’s wild ways and made them white,
Stands ’midst its people as a thing accurst,
Its glowing past lost in the black of night.
Judas among the nations, hear it raise
Its paeans of pretence to every clime ;
But, shrinking ’neath the mask, in sorrow prays
Forgiveness as accomplice to this crime.
The lands whose kinsmen reel beneath the blow,
The land whence Freedom came, the sunlit strands,
Which watched the baby Europe thrive and grow,
The mighty West, all held their forceful hands.
They saw, by alien hordes, their race beset,
Dragged down and slaughtered, racked in limb and nerve,
Shamefaced they were and sick at heart, and yet
Stood by inactive, when a blow would serve.
Grief falls to-day on Russia not alone,
Not for her loss the tears of nations flow ;
They mourn humiliation of their own,
Their treachery and cowardice they know.
Each nation seeks its infamy to hide ;
Each nation knows the blot upon its name ;
Each nation envies Russia still her pride ;
The loss is Russia’s ; Europe’s is the shame 1
vio.
H. GLUBB.
DIVORCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Melbourne Divorce Court, lately, Justice a’Beckett
remarked : “ I will grant the decree, but I doubt very much
if any other Judge would do it.” Future applicants will
take care to patronise Justice a’Beckett, in preference to
the remaining members of the Supreme Court bench.
Step this way, step this way,
This is where a’Beckett, J.,
Under Shiels’s famous section
Gives you freedom evermore—
And, remember, no connection
Has he with the Court next door.
Little costs you have to pay
When you have a’Beckett, J.
Wifey is a frisky fay,
Hubby has a whisky way;
If you’d part, your proper course is
To support the record Judge;
He will give you prime divorces,
Measure full he’ll never grudge.
Hasten then without delay
Off to see a’Beckett, J.
If your partner will not stay
From your home three years away;
If she’s smart enough to dodge a
Private D. who lies in wait,
And you cannot land the lodger,
You can much facilitate
Matters if your case you lay
Then before a’Beckett, J.
VIC.
C. N.


SHORTHAND
i
is the Stepping'-stone to the Best Positions
in Business Life. We can teach you Short-
hand at home, and save your time and
money. An easy, speedy, and practical
system. Write for a FREE LESSON and all
particulars. Send at once to
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [2
JRMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
kiktg street,
The Most Comfortable ard Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
m
NATURE and ART
PURE WOOL and
FINE TAILORING.
♦
Spring Suits
TO ORDER,
THREE GUINEAS.
——.—
Patterns Post Free.
R. C HAGON,“,
KING ST., SYDNEY.
; f!
THE CHEERFUL HEIR.
PARSON : “ I'm sorry to hear you've lost your son.”
SHE : “Ah I we miss him so. ’E would say ter
me, ‘Mother, yer cow, give us a feed;’ and
’e’d say ter his father, 'Father , yer swine,
give us a sprat;’ and if I wouldn't give him
a feed and ’is father wouldn't give him a
sprat, 'e’d start and smash everthing 'c could
grab ’old of, 'e was so cheerful like.”
After much consideration, and following
many futile attempts, some of Adelaide’s clerks are
making another effort to form a union. Present
move seems to have a decent show of success,
although it is sure to be bitterly opposed by Tory
employers, who, as things are now, have no diffi-
culty in picking up a clerk, who has passed the
accountancy examination, for 30s. a week. The
Adelaide clerk, especially in the larger ware-
houses, is, all round, a shockingly underpaid and
overworked individual; but there is still a vast
quantity of him that considers the wearing of a
faded black coat, and a faded greenish-brownish
hat, and the privilege of talking of “ our pawty ”
as of much more account than securing decent
wage conditions. The Adelaide clerk is usually a
literary society young man, and the literary
society young man usually has designs on a “posi-
tion” in stodgy society, which position consists
mostly of being allowed to sit on a hard chair in
the draught at an occasional function given by the
boss. Hence, the average quill-driver’s politics
and his failure to organise. But he is growing out
of it, slowly.
• * * *
“It is better to be healthy and wealthy
than wise; but if you cannot be any of the three,
the next best thing is to be an English peer.”—
Zangwill.
In Melbourne Insolvency Court, the other
day, the law, having first picked clean the bones
of a victim, handed him its condolences. John
Jack was a grocer who, in August, ’O4, had £2OOO
liabilities and only £798 assets, not including a
spirit license. He filed his schedule and his
creditors were about to divide the 7s. 6d. in the £
when the trustee recollected the license, and for a
whole year a great battle raged over it. Jack and
Mrs. Jack appeared no less than ten times in the
Insolvency Court, the lady finally getting a deci-
sion that the license was hers. The trustee then
went to the Eull Court and again several expensive
lawyers and three learned judges considered the
matter at great length—Mrs. J. being defeated on
this occasion. The squabble went to the High
Court next, and it upset the Full Court’s decision.
When the law granted grocer Jack his certificate
it could not refrain from congratulating him and
Mrs. Jack on having been a leading case in three
courts. But Mrs. Jack’s license is pretty well
mortgaged for years to come, and the hapless
creditors, who were quite willing to take their 7s.
6d. at first and let the license go, will now collect
barely 6d. in the £l.
* * -Jr *
“Ferosfcag ” : The Council’s recent refusal
to change the name of Wolloomooloo augurs well
for the preservation of historic designations
around Sydney. ’Tis a pity that the same con-
servative instinct was not in evidence when
Charlotte-place was re named Grosvenor-street.
In 1810 Gov. Macquarie issued an order whereby
the street, variously known as Serjeant-Major’s-
row, Spring-row, and High-street, was to be
named George-street in honor of George 111.
This was the first street
named by Macquarie. The
second street was called
Charlotte after the King’s
consort; the removal of this
name has left George-street a
widower. The proclamation
reads: “ The open space of
ground, or area, whereon the
Church of St. Philip now
stands, and which is hereafter
intended to be formed into a
handsome square (the street
hitherto known by the name
of Church-street forming the
west side thereof) has been
named ‘Charlotte-square’ in
honor of Her Majesty, by
which name only it is hence-
forth to be denominated.”
This square, it will be seen,
comprised all the land now
bounded by Clarence, Gros-
venor, Jamieson, and Lang
streets. The Church-street
referred to is the present
Clarence-street, which then
only ran from where the
Grosvenor Hotel is down to
the Barrack wall. Some in-
teresting persons had leases
fronting Charlotte - square ;
three of them were “first-
fieeters ’’—Lucas, Prior and
Sidaway. John Harris had a
block on the S.E. side, and
Colonel Paterson another on
the east. John Macarthur’s
lease adjoined Paterson’s, and
became a bone of contention
between him and Gov. Bligh.
Bligh forbade Macarthur to
build on this lease, offering
him land of equal value else-
where. Macarthur then selec-
ted three other sites, none of
which Bligh could or would
give, and Macarthur concluded his last
letter to Bligh by declaring his inten-
tion to retain the lease near the church. It is
interesting to note that Macarthur was offered in
exchange land at the end of Pitt’s-row, and de-
clined it, his reason being that “It was situated
at the end of Pitt’s-row, a place where the com-
mon gallows had stood, and which was surrounded
by all the vile and infamous characters of the
town of Sydney.”
■ir * If H
A couple of Melbourne detectives struck
a sudden sort of criminal lately. He was walking
quietly along when detective No. 1 spotted him.
When No. 1 had finished grabbing handfuls of air-
he discovered that the wanted had disappeared
up a back verandah post, and was clambering over
the roof. The wanted took an 18ft. drop over the
side wall into the adjoining yard. Detective No. 2
was waiting for him there, and clutched unsuc-
cessfully at his coat tails as he clambered up a 6ft,
fence. The suspect continued his flight through
back yards and over fowl-houses with the detec-
tives tearing along the path outside, and came out
on the cross-roads an easy winner. A blown D.
rounded the corner in time to see something
vanish over another fence, but when the officer
rushed that fence there was nothing on the other
side save some grass, which couldn’t well be
arrested.
* * * *
The recurrence of the big Agricultural
Show at Flemington revives memories of the
inauguration of the first thing of the kind in
Victoria —the Pastoral and Agricultural Society
of Australia Felix, which was formed on 15th Jan-
uary, 1840, at the Lamb Inn, which stood where
Scott’s Hotel now is in Collins-street, Melbourne.
The proceedings took the form of a dinner—a very
wet one—where grace was said by Melbourne’s
first Scotchbyterian Minister, Rev. Clow, and such
old-timers as Dr. M‘Orae, Hugh M‘Kenzie (in full
Highland rig), Donald Fletcher, J. Yaldwin and
Angus M’Crae proposed the toasts. The objects
of that society were numerous and extensive —the
offering of rewards for success in agriculture, &c.,
also “to obtain a greater degree of justice
generally; also a Supreme Court; the suppression
of felonies ; resistance to monopolies, and the cog-
nisance of all matters bearing upon the develop-
ment of provincial resources.” Even in those
early days they seem to have begun blathering
about the ‘ ‘ great natural resources. ”
The recent
discovery, during
repairs to Spen-
cer-street (Melb.)
railway station,
of a stone in-
scribed “Mel-
bourne, Mount
Alexandra and
Murray River
Railway Offices,”
recalls some early
Victorian traffic
matters. In 1853
the M., Mt. A.
and M.R. Rail-
way Co. ob-
tained Parlia-
mentary au-
thority to con-
struct lines
from Mel-
bourne to
Bendigo and
Echuca. The
co. built offices
on the site of
the present
Spencer-street
station, and made
some sort of a
beginning at the
lines, but in 1856
Parliament had to
come to the rescue
of Private Enter-
prise. The Minis-
try was authorised
to buy the co. out,
and the lines were
completed by the
State. The Ben-
digo line was
opened in Octo-
ber,’62 ; that to Echuca
in September, ’64. Private
Enterprise was also authorised to build lines
from Geelong to Melbourne, and from Mel-
bourne to Hobson’s Bay. Geelong line originally
ended at Greenwich pier, at the mouth of the
Yarra, and passengers completed the trip to
Melbourne by boat. In ’59 a junction was formed
at Newport with the State line to Williamstown
pier—the first State line opened in Victoria.
Flinders-street to Port Melbourne line-opened
in ’s4—was the first completed in Australia. St.
Kilda line was opened in ’57, and Richmond in ’59.
» ■* * *
An Australian woman in Africa writes a
Bulletin man re the Ohow bandits now at large
in that misfortunate country
They are certainly not new hands at the bushranging
business, and go about their nefarious practices in a
systematic manner that makes the Kelly gang’s records
look like a list of blunders. John the robber doesn’t
want to fight, and takes cunning precautions to avoid the
necessity. There is nothing vainglorious about him. He
is out for loot, and wants to get it in the easiest possible
and least dangerous way. His plans are always
well laid, so that if there is any killing to be done he is
not likely to be counted with the slain. This system
denotes experience in villainy, and there is no doubt he
has played the game often in his native Mongolia. In
short, it is plain that not a few Chinese and Mongolian
robber gangs have been imported into Africa with the
rest of the Yellow Agony, and it is believed here that the
Chow Government seized the opportunity to foist a few
thousands of China’s undesirables on to the Band just to
save the expense of beheading and burying them.
* * * *
“ Hamer ” : The lie of piebald Australians
■about the deterioration of white people in
equatorial regions is mainly
founded on the fact that most
white people who go to tropi-
cal countries go as overlords
of a race of serfs, and live in
indolence and brandy and
soda ; and indolence and
brandy and soda will deteri-
orate any people in pretty
nearly any country. The
soldiers and hunters who
have fought and hunted hard
—more arduously than la-
borers often and lived
moderate lives in India, have
reached robust old ages. A
working white population
has little to fear, given decent
wage conditions and sensible
attention to dietary. Alcohol has been the bane of
the tropical white.
* * * *
Those who grew excited over the recovered
anchor of the old first-fleeter Sirius are sadly
disappointed with the object of their affections.
The mass of iron, corroded and salt-stained, was
to adorn the statue of N.S.W.’s first gaoler,
Phillip, but it is such an eyesore that the idea has
been abandoned. Possibly a depleted public
exchequer may be enriched by its value as old
iron. F. B. Suttor, a sort of relative of the
anchor, wasted some of his good money on the
recovery of his beastly-looking friend.
* * * *
Maiden, Curator of Sydney Botanic Gar-
dens, is very proud of a certain Ficus Benncttii
which came from Fiji in the fifties, and which now
flourishes in Farm Cove, and, so far as scientists
know, nowhere else in the world. Repeated
efforts have been made to re-discover it in Fiji,
but without success. Foreign botanists would
give almost any price for a young plant, but it is
very difficult to propagate, and N.S.W. is not in a
hurry to deal; it has a corner in Ficus Bennettii,
and the price keeps going up till it threatens to
become one of the State’s great natural resources.
TWO
CHARACTERS.
BLANCHE: “ I've got an offer to go on the stage."
MABELLE : “ Whatever as—a walking lady or a
standing joke? ”
A recent number of Adelaide Chronicle.
contained a wildly exciting picture of a palm tree
being carried into Sammy Way’s garden to be
planted. The next week’s issue had a still moie
exciting picture—the tree planted, and Sammy
standing beside it.
* * * *
“ Australis ” : It may be somewhat late in
the day to refer to the Broadford (Vic.) murder,
for which Jones was hanged, but a healthy rumor
is going about the Wangaratta (Vic.) district of a
confession by the real murderer. The yarn is that
an Assyrian hawker recently cremated at Wanga-
ratta with great pomp, sent before his death for Ser-
geant Simeox, who, being busy, detailed a mounted
constable to call on the man. The expiring nigger
is alleged to have confided to the constable that
he, and net Jones, was responsible for the Broad-
ford outrage. The police show a huge, dark re-
ticence when questioned on the subject.
THE DYING MAN SPEAKS.
“Ah, sir, how can I thank you? You her done
me more good with them blessed words than
all the doctors in Australia .”
“ Believe me, it is vewy gwatifying to hear you
say so.”
“ Yus, yus! It's the fust sound sleep I've had
since ever I was took bad.”
“THE REMORSE OF CAIN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tfre picture bearing the above titles by Mr. Jack
Sommers, is one of the most imaginative shown in the
iSxhibition of the Victorian Artists this year.
The fear is over, the amaze is fled
That followed on the deed of wrath,
When Gain beheld his brother dead,
And saw his dripping hands deep-dyed in red,
And red the uncharted wilderness —his path.
His feet are set among the solitudes,
His face towards the primal strife
Of uncouth beasts ; where savage Passion broods,
And the new Hell of barbarous Nature’s moods
Yearns for his blood, who spilt his brother s life.
Around his melancholy loins is hung
The girdle of a wild beast’s skin ;
His child-like features, old, yet young,
. Are downward bent. Despair hath clung
About his naked form, and entered in.
He recks not that the whelps of God’s first pairs
Of deep-toothed brutes crouch near his side,
That Danger from a thousand lairs
Shows bloody menace in her carnal glares ;
He only sees and knows how Abel died.
He sees it not, the desolation round,
For that within of iron force
That holds his sense to one long sound—
His brother’s cry, and the encrimsoned ground ;
He stands a lonely figure of Remorse.
VIC.
MARY E. FULLERTON.
SENT TO THE DEVIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Ask papa,” the maiden said.
He knew that papa was dead,
He knew the life papa’d led —
He understood her, and fled.
J.D.C.


m
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
IF INTERESTED, write
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.
64 PITT=ST., SYDNEY. Helbourne Office: 504 Little Collins=street.
A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian State finances :
State Revenues for August,
Aug-., 1904. Aug., 1905.
N S Wales .. £871,550 £896,178 Inc. £24,628
Victoria .. 549,741 670,666 Inc. 20,925
Queensland .. 232,496 285,035 Inc. 52,539
Westralia .. 279,432 271,696 Dec. 7,736
Tasmania .. 67,492 65,470 Dec. 2,022
And for the last couple of months
State Revenues for Year so far.
July-Aug., July-Aug.,
1904. 1905.
NS Wales ..£1,664,169 £1,652,777 Dec. £11,392
victoria .. .. 1,141,921 1,175,653 Inc. 33,732
Queensland .. 478,330 548,122 Inc. 69,792
Westralia .. 615,388 468,124 Dec. 47,264
Tasmania .. 131,639 133,470 Inc. 1,831
Host notable feature is the improvement in Queensland.
The new policy which was to kill the northern sugar busi-
ness has been accompanied by a splendid revival in that
industry ; the butter and dairy produce export business
is feeling more cheerful than it ever felt before ; and
population is steadily moving up to the State which has a
Labor Treasurer and a Liberal-Labor Ministry, and from
which therefore, according to all the rules of the daily-
paper’ offices and the bogus-Reform politicians,
pretty well everybody should be ■ fleeing, after
grabbing all their ‘ portable possessions. N.S. Wales’
deficiency on the two months operations is
due wholly to a fall in land revenue ; otherwise the State’s
figures are fair. A tremendous effort was made in the
closing month of last financial year to get in land revenue,
so that Joseph the Reformer might crow over a surplus,
and the receipts for July (the first month in the new year)
shrunk in consequence. As to this alleged land revenue,
the N.S.W. Auditor-General’s report, lately issued, shows
that of the £1,757,902 received last year, £937,815, or 53£
percent., was the proceeds of land sales, and wasn’t there-
fore revenue at all. The same fraud is, of course, going
on still. Apart from Commonwealth balance, which
comes from customs, the Victorian position isn’t as good
as it was. Railway revenue in particular is tailing off.
Westralia keeps on going down hill, and is at present the
boss tax-dodger of the group. S. Australia continues to
make up its figures only once a quarter—standing in that
respect, so far as revenue is concerned, absolutely alone
among the States.
Expenditure returns are as usual scanty :
Expenditure for Year so far.
July-Aug., ’O4. July-Aug. / ’O5.
N.S. Wales .. £1,903,214 £1,814,224 Dec. £88,990
Queensland .. 327,275 349,978 Inc. 22,703
Westralia .. 604,724 509,496 Dec. 95,228
Westralia seems to have done something to put the plug
in at this end. But, then, there was a tremendous jump
in the matter of expenditure in July of last year ; a gene-
ral election was hovering around at the time, and no
further explanation seems necessary. Even with the plug
in, the State’s expenditure in the past two months ex-
ceeded revenue by £41,372. This is not so awful as the
position was this time last year, under the exceptional
circumstances just mentioned, but it is much worse than
it was in 1903, when the two months’ deficit amounted to
£22,335. Queensland has £198,144 put by towards paying
its current interest; the bill for that runs into £128,920
per month. The careful Kidston, by the way, actually
had to pay a trifle less in interest last year than in 1903-4 ;
his total was £1,547,091 against £1,547,331 the previous
year. In two years Philp and Oribb (if anybody remem-
bers that there ever was a Cribb) added £141,227 to the
annual interest charge ; Kidston last year managed to
scrape off £240. Under an Act of 10 or 11 years ago
Queensland pledged itself when it got a surplus to pay off
some of the public debt with it. The State was just
then having a spree on borrowed money, and the Act was a
cheap and easy way of announcing that it was really a
very virtuous drunkard. And now, when Kidston has
managed to produce a microscopic surplus, he can’t use it
to be virtuous with, in the previously-specified way at
any rate; for under the Special Retrenchment Act the
money has to be divided among the public servants whose
screws were cut down, and it pans out a dividend of Bs. in
the £—that is to say, they get back Bs. of every £ that was
cut off. Nevertheless, by retiring some of the Savings Bank
3£ per cents., Kidston estimates that this year his interest
bill will be down to £l,s46,BB3—another little saving of
£2OB. A saving of a poor little £448 in two years ; and
Philp and Cribb found it as easy as fishing to add
£141,227 to the interest bill in the same time ! N.S. Wales
last year was £239,045 to the bad on the first two months’
transactions; this year, £161,447. And its loan expendi-
ture, though still at the rate of nearly two millions a
year, shows up £24,772 better than it did 12 months ago.
• » * *
The amazing Owe’Sullivan writes to Sydney
Telegraph, whooping for his old policy of squander, and
says that “ it has not only proved an enormous success,
but was carried out without adding one penny to the
taxation of the country.” During 1903 the Owe’Sullivan
opened the Gundagai-Tumut line. It' cost £216,148,
and the interest bill is £7742 a year; and last
year the line only earned £1719 towards the bill.
The other £6023 had to come from somewhere; and
the Owe’Sullivan might explain where it came from
if it didn’t come out of taxation. Owe’Sullivan also built
the Temora-Wyalqng line with Cohen’s help. Cohen calls
for £4BBl as interest on the money put into that line ;
and last year it only earned £2lOB. If the other £2673
wasn’t paid out of taxation, Owe’Sullivan might explain
where that amount came from likewise. Also there is
the Lismore-Casino line ; working expenses ran last year
into £4412, and the total earnings only amounted to
£3429. Not only did every cent of Cohen’s interest have
to come out of taxation, but the line called for a State
subsidy of £lOB3 to even keep it running. Where
this money came from if it didn’t come out of
taxation, Owe’Sullivan might explain at the same
time as he explains where the other money came from.
There doesn’t appear to be one single Owe’Sullivan line,
in fact, which doesn’t demand a subsidy out of taxation.
Owe’Sullivan is particularly proud, it seems, of the tram-
wavs. The Manly tram is a sample of the sort of thing
that he is proud of. Here is its three years’ record
Gross revenue .. .. .. .. . - £1352
Working expenses 2559
Deficit (without interest) .. .. £1207
This line hasn’t earned a farthing of interest, and barely
half of the working expenses. Where the other half of
the working expenses and the whole of Cohen’s interest
have come from, if they haven’t come out of taxation, is
therefore added to the other items that are awaiting
Owe’Sullivan’s explanation.
Owe’Sullivan admits that he not only hustled
the State into spending an enormous amount of borrowed
money, but that private persons were also hustled into
spending more millions. “In one year alone (1903) no
less than £3,000,000 was spent upon buildings in Sydney
and its suburbs, thus benefiting suburban property-owners
and contractors.” The Works Department had a disease,
and the ex-Works Minister reckons he was an enormous
success because he passed the disease on to others, thus
benefiting the people with burial-lots to sell and helping
undertakers. What the Owe’Sullivan did to fill the
£3,000,000 worth of new premises that were put up while
his boom was on he doesn’t mention, yet that seems a
matter of some importance. If he simply promoted a
boom, and didn’t add to Sydney’s capacity to pay more
rent, then he merely rushed £3,000,000 more unremunera-
tive debt on to Sydney’s shoulders. And that, as a matter
of fact, is precisely what Owe’Sullivan did.
* * * *
Tasmania is now in a constant state of tears
over the falling away in its share of the customs and
excise revenue—a falling away which leaves the urea-
surer in a desperate strait to make ends meet. Jbut
Tasmania itself is largely responsible for this, though it
doesn’t seem to realise that very obvious fact. In the
old separate days the island had the heaviest tariff in all
the States. It wasn’t a scientific Protectionist tariff, for
it fell heavily on some things that a Protectionist Govern-
ment would let in free because they couldn’t be locally
produced, and it bore lightly in cases where, for the sake
of local industry, it should have been heavy. But in the
aggregate it was a heavier tariff than that of Victoria,
S?A., or Queensland. Yet most Tasmanians really
thought they were Freetraders, and they sent a number
of Freetraders into the Australian Parliament. These in-
dividuals thought that their mission was a serious one,
and helped to cut down the Federal tariff and to knock
Tasmania’s customs revenue to perdition. And Tasmania,
whose press still mostly preaches Freetrade, and which,
to a considerable extent, voted Freetrade, is now weeping
because it got a little of the thing it asked for.
* * » *
The Melbourne Permanent Building Society :
Business Loss on Total Dividend Re-
July, Profit. Property. Loss. 2J p.c. serves.
1896 .. £BB4 £ll6B £284
1897 .. 1220 3010 1790 16,437
1898 .. 1523 7718 6195 10,242
1899 .. 1913 7122 5209 5,033
Profit.
1900 .. 2614 603 2011 7,044
Profit.
1901 .. 3423 841 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4723 16,031
1903 .. 4460 485 3975 20,006
Capital written down from £177,164 to £70,866,
of which £257 was added to reserves .. .. 20,263
1904 .. 4012 4012 24,275
1905 .. 2617 2617 £1741 25,151
On the written-down values a profit was made, according
to the directors’ statement, on property sold, but it is not
shown in the above. The position apparently is that pro-
perties of an old book-value of £6228 were sold for £4803,
thus reducing from £103,615 to £102,190 the provision for
losses made by writing down capital. When the capital
was written down provision was made for a slump of about
30 per cent, in book values ; the present realisations have
shown a loss of only 23 per cent. This surplus (the
difference between 30 and 23 per cent.) is not, however,
shown as profit, but is added to the provision against
deficits on future realisations, so that the latter may pan
out worse than anticipated without requiring a further
writing-down of capital. Of course, if future realisa-
tions don’t pan out any worse than was antici-
pated, then there will be a surplus m the end.
The div. now paid follows hard upon an increase
of interest payable on debentures to 4 per cent. ;
before the last reconstruction, debentures only carried
2* percent., but were liable to go to 5 percent. Now
they stop at 4 per cent. The reduction in business profit
shown is due wholly to this increased interest; the extra
1J per cent, makes a difference of close upon £2OOO in the
bill. The dividend is the first paid in 14 years. On the
written-down value of properties (that is, their book-
value less the provision for losses made by writing-off
capital) the net rentals show a return of just about
3f per cent. ; and, in spite of the profit alleged to have
been made on realisations this past year-, 3J per cent,
isn’t a high enough return to suggest that the society can
rely upon continued surpluses from sales. A satisfactory
feature is the steady repayment of debentures ; debt
under that head has been reduced from £175,576 to
£168,718 during the year. When properties are bringing
in 3J per cent, and debentures cost 4 per cent., the latter
seem a good thing to get rid of at every opportunity,
though the hurry to pay a div. will delay the shifting.
* * * *
The Excelsior Land, Investment and Build-
ing Co. and Bank (Sydney)
Interest paid
Business. Loss on Total to De- De-
July, Loss. Property. Loss, positors. ficit.
1895.. £5189 £5,189 Ordinary £13,963
1896 .. 1375 £13,937 12,562 Nil 26,525
1897 .. 3833 10,240 6,407 Nil 32,932
1898 .. 449 - 2J per cent. 32,483
Loss. „
1899.. 1939 - 1,939 2} „ 34,422
1900.. 1987 65,208 67,195 2* „ 101,617
1901 .. 342 342 2J „ 101,959
1902 .. 30 2J „ 101,929
1903 .. L B2 82 2J „ 102,011
Profit.
1904.. 58 2J „ 101.053
1905.. 214 2J „ 101,739
The directors’ report is brief and vague : The troubles
the State for some years past has gone through in con-
nection with industrial and other matters still exist,
therefore, until a change takes place, your directors do
not expect an improvement in the affairs of the com-
pany.” Well, the Excelsior was suspected of being a
corpse which should have been buried long ago, ana it
isn’t the way of corpses to improve with age. And it
wasn’t present industrial troubles, anyway, that made it
a corpse, if it is one. The co.’s disasters date from the
time when this country was flooded with foreign capital;
the co. sailed in on the top of that boom, bought proper-
ties, and lent money on boom values, arid then found
itself a stranded whale when the tide went out. In
1893, before there was any Labor legislation (presumably
the directors’ report refers to that), the co. was utterly
unable to pay its way without meeting its creditors.
More than that, supposing the directors refer to anything
that has happened during the past five years, this paper
throws these few figures at them. From 1895 to 1900, in
order to reduce the liabilities by £95,335, the co. had to
get rid of £174,691 of assets. In the past five years, in
order to reduce the liabilities by £40,765, it has only been
necessary to realise £40,460 of assets. In the first period
the assets were assisted by £B3OO of calls ; in the second
period by only £427. Therefore, while in the first period
assets brought 10s. in the £ of the boom values which
the absurd co. paid for them, in the past five years they
have brought practically 20s. in the £. And yet “until
a change takes place the directors do not expect an im-
provement.” Evidently the directors can’t tell an im-
provement when they see one. It is quite possible that
some of the creditors have been accepting payment in
properties at above their real values ; but that doesn’t
alter the fact that, so far as the co. is concerned, the
improvement has taken place.
Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Sydney)
Bonus to
Consignors
and Added
Profit. Dividends. Share- to Re- Re-
holders. serves, serves.
June,’o2 £2,157 sp.c. = £lOB2 £lOOO £75 £257
Reserves unaccountably reduced by £56 .. 201
Dec., ’O2 569 643 127
Loss. Deficit.
June, ’O3 2,810 2,683
June, ’O4 15,787 18,470
Profit.
June, ’O5 1,305 17,165
This is a good deal better ; but it is not at all certain that
it is as much better as it looks. When the co. was landed
in trouble mainly through disastrous deals in wheat, it
issued £20,078 new preference shares—6 p.c. cumulative.
There is no hint anywhere that the 6 p.c. has been paid.
And if it hasn’t been paid, then the amount due absorbs
practically the whole net profit, leaving the deficit at
£18,370—a reduction of only £lOO. The charges against
revenue included £534 depreciation, and apparently £344
for bad debts, though the latter item is uncertain ; there
was a reserve of £925 twelve months ago for this purpose,
and it may not have been all absorbed. Plant, machinery,
goodwill, and other items stand at over £12,000, so the
allowance for depreciation is by no means excessive, even
if it is adequate; the goodwill item (size unspecified)
ought to disappear altogether, and that, of course, would
add to the deficit. The capital, including the £20,078
cumulative preference, is £47,772, leaving £-7,694 repre-
sented by ordinary shares ; and, in view of the deficit, it
seems that about two-thirds of this should be written off.
It has been lost, and there’s an end of it. The preference
capital was got in afterwards, and it isn’t likely that that
will be touched. The overdrafts have been further re-
duced during the year from £14,643 (including £5141.
against wheat advances) to £11,120 (including £5113 on
wheat account). Total liabilities to public have moved .—-
1903, £68,102; 1904, £32,058; 1905, £25,705. This is
satisfactory, but it can’t bring much comfort to ordinary
shareholders, seeing that it is mainly due_ to the issue of
the cumulative pref. shares. So far as ordinaries are con-
cerned, the greater part of the debt is simply changed in
form —against them it is now a fixed debt carrying 6 per
cent. So far as creditors and customers are concerned,
however, the position has undoubtedly improved enor-
mously. Expenses have also been cut down severely,
which will go a good way towards helping a lame duck
into safety. But the lame duck has yet far to go.
The N.Z. Farmers’ Co-Operative Association
of Canterbury (M.L.): — , .
Unexplained
Addi-
Writ- tions
Visible ten to Re- Re-
Hav, Profits. Dividends. Bonus, off. serves, serves
J £ £££££
1900.. 16,459 lOp.c. = 5674 7164 260 30,364
1901 .. 14,169 91 „ „ 5799 6207 258 843 33,112
1902.. 8,091 9 „ ~ 5859 5188 1535 777 29,398
1903 .. 16,632 91 „ ~ 6185 7240 466 250 32,389
1904 .. 13,747 9 „ „ 5868 6788 1548 31,932
1905’.. 22,539 8J „ „ 6560 9000 450 93 38,554
Figures in the last line may be right or they may be
wrong, so far as they relate to the amount of dividend
and bonus, and consequently to reserves. Whether the
dividend declared (10 per cent.) is per annum or for the
14 months isn’t mentioned ; but it looks as though it is
for the 14 months, seeing the amount is put up 1 per
cent. Also the amount of the bonus and of
the writings-off have to be guessed at; no figures,
apart from percentages, are given until the
following year. The business is large, profitable,
and expanding. To a considerable extent it is, how-
ever, carried on with borrowed money; deposits (in-
cluding £81,242 on current account) amount to £162,153.
The liquid assets (including “ investments,” character un-
specified) total £17,185—£17,185 in the till (including
“ investments”) to face £81,242 which may be called for
at any moment. You wouldn’t think, after that, that
there are nearly a dozen Scotchmen on the board ; yet
there are. Apart from the disproportion of current
deposits to liquid assets, the position is strong ; an annual
10 per cent, is written off plant, &c. ; and moderate pro-
vision is made for bad debts, though the “sundry
debtors ” item has moved from £29,287 in 1901 to £45,624
in 1905, which is something considerable in the way of a
leap. Working expenses seem to be moving along pretty
rapidly ; in 1900, on a gross trading profit of £31,131, they
amounted to £14,209 ; now, on a gross trading profit of
£49,097 (for 14 months), expenses have gone to £25,977.
Thus while gross trading profits have increased 57 per
cent., expenses have increased 76 per cent.
* * * *
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney)
N«t To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
June, 1900..£7,727 6p.c.=£6000 £1727 £24,364
Dec., 1900.. 10,307 6 „ „ 6000 4307 28,671
June, 1901.. 4,305 {o£d!' 5 ” ” 3750 } 27,726
Dec., 1901.. 8,844 6 ~ „ 6000 2844 30,570
June, 1902.. 2,147 Nil. 2147 32,71/
D. 0., ,9®.. 2,,«{sri;;:: X} - ».«»
June, 1903.. 6,859 6 „ „ 6000 859 28,729
Dec., 1903.. 5,516 6 „ „ 6000 28,245
June, 1904.. 7,438 6 „ „ 6000 1438 29,683
Dec., 1904.. 5,685 {j*f « ” ” 435 30,118
June, 1905.. 6,102 5 ” ” 3750/ 852 30 , 970
This co.’s reserves see-saw without explanation ; this
half-year they have had an addition of £9Ol from some-
where unspecified, and, in the table printed above, that
amount has been added to profits. Probably these move-
ments bear some relation to uncompleted contracts.
Following profit and loss account the profits have been :
Dec., 1900 .. £8493 June, 1903 .. £6392
June, 1901 .. 5354 Dec., 1903 .. 5971
Dec., 1901 .. 6149 June, 1904 .. 4868
June, 1902 .. 4410 Dec., 1904 .. 6169
Dec., 1902 .. 2859 | June, 1905 .. 5201
But, in the bulk, the figures in the first table give the
correct view of the situation. On them, the past 12
months would show a profit of £5 2s. 6d. per cent, on
shareholders’ funds. Whether, however, ample provision
is made for depreciation it is impossible to say. In addi-
tion to its own funds, the co. has £150,000 of debenture-
holders’ money in the business, and that doesn t
improve the situation, from a shareholders’ point of view.
For them it simply means so much first-preference
capital, and there isn’t much margin even now, under
fair conditions, between what the money earns and whac
it costs, and it would cost just as much under less
satisfactory conditions. Mort’s Dock shareholders might
therefore feel a good deal more comfortable under a
policy which would stimulate Australian industries and
call for Australian machinery. If that policy didn’t bring
so many ocean vessels to the harbor (and occasionally,
though not often, to Mort’s Dock), it would add enor-
mously to inter-State trade, and that’s the trade that
Mort’s Dock is most likely to get.
* * * *
Pitt, Son, and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen :
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
-lUQ7 4*l «41 £1,841 £7,500
1898 2 731 2,731 7,500
1«99 4043 - 4,043 7,500
1900 6’, 555 - 6,555 7,500
1901 5,569 5,569 7 > 500
1902 12 299 - 12,299 7,500
1903 6 319 6,319 7,500
1904 6’,438 5 per cent. = £2500 11,438
1905 3,523 5 „ „ 2500 12,461
It is stated that, for the past year, something has been
provided for bad and doubtful debts (“securities have
been written down to what is considered bed-rock ”) ; but
the amount isn’t mentioned. Therefore, for purposes of
comparison, the year’s figures are not worth much,
if they are worth anything at all. The disastrous
Western N S. Wales holdings with which the co.
found itself left, and all other such securities, have
been written down to £45,267—the way in which the
co. has stuck to this dead horse, and sent all its profits to
the deplorable animal, is one of the most cheerful
features of drought-recovery finance. Just at present,
however, the co. is building up more debt, having re-
duced its liabilities (mostly overdraft) from £72,117 in
1899 to £15,731 in 1904, it has in the past year run up the
total to £21,097, mostly as the result of purchasing a
Darling Harbor block for a wool store ; and presumably
there is more overdraft to follow to build the store with.
Still Darling Harbor isn’t a district where the rabbit is
liable to break in and bite 50 per cent, off the top of an
asset.
* * * *
The Adelaide Co-operative Society
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off serves.
Feb 1902 .. About 8 p.c. =£2332 £384 £I6OO
Aug.’, 1902 ..£2511 „ 8 „ „ 2351 308 1452
Feb., 1903 .. 2427 „ 7f „ „ 2181 329 1369
Aug.’ 1903 .. 2286 „ 7| ~ „ 2179 242 1234
Feb., 1904 .. 2433 „ 7f „ „ 2152 254 1261
Aug. 1904 .. 2529 „ 7| „ „ 2104 364 1322
Feb., 1905 .. 2680 „ 7| „ „ 2208 299 1495
Aug., 19051 2307 2108 251 1443
(approx.) J
As usual it is impossible to give anything but an approxi-
mation of the last figures. The appropriation of one half-
year’s profits is not disclosed till the next half-year is
ended ; and even profits are not shown net —that is, less
such expenses as directors’ and auditors’ fees, taxes, &c.
Presumably it is impossible to show what the dividend
will be, since some of it is in the form of bonus on
purchases ; but nevertheless it ought to be possible to
tell what the other expenses are, and thus simplify the
published accounts to some extent. The society, which
is now over a quarter of a century old, trades upon no
fixed capital: the shareholder can, on short notice, draw
out not only his deposits (which now amount to £16,655,
carrying 4 p.c.), but his capital (£41,889) as well. In
order to provide for any sudden rush, the society has
raised £4500 on mortgage, and maintains the amount in
easily-converted State securities, which is, perhaps, the
next best thing to building up a substantial reserve fund
of its own. Apart from its loans from members, the
society works on a strictly cash basis. And as Premier
Price is one director, and some other Labor members are
other directors, that looks hopeful for S. Aus. politics.
If this solidly successful concern can be run on G.O.D.
principles, and spread out in 26 years from half a bag of
potatoes to a universal providery, running most things
from a tailor’s shop to a dairy farm, what’s wrong with
trying the same policy in connection with the State ?
Westralian divs. for August were Golden
Horseshoe, £90,000 ; Golden Pole, £7500 ; and Fremantle
Smelter, £SOOO. Eight months’ divs. total £1,559,001, as
against £1,356,806 for same period of last year, again of
£202,195. Divs. so far for September are—Great Boulder,
2d. per share, or £65,626 ; and Golden Pole, 9d. per share,
or £7500. Perseverance and Oroya-Brown Hill usually
pay in September. « * *
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie, is now one of the best
handled mines in the world. Recent tests with a Wilfley
slime concentrator have proved so successful that 11
more are on order. Total costs of treatment have been
brought down to Bs. 9d. a ton, and the extraction is 86
per cent., which are the best results for sulphide ores on
the Golden Mile. At 1200 ft. both the middle and east
lodes are opening up well. Plats have been cut at 1270 ft.
and 1370 ft.: in the latter the middle lode was cut worth
7oz for Ift. wide. Although mine has been working for a
good many years, only the two upper levels have been
worked out. Some of the ore even m No. 3 level has not
been blocked out, and is consequently not included in
reserves. Yet reserves are estimated to be 3$ years ahead
of mill, taking output at 17,000 tons monthly.
• * * •
Golden Pole (W.A.) is now on the pay shoot at
400 ft., and the reef is 18in. wide, worth 30dwt. It pitches
northwards away from main shaft. At No. 3 level there
was 25ft. of a blank before it was reached ; since then it
has been followed 250 ft. north, in pay ore. South drive
at No. 1 level is in about 4Soft., and has only about 20ft.
to go to reach the point, where pay ore was cut beyond
the crosscourse. Tailings plant, which ceased work in
March has been re-modelled, and a slimes plant installed ,
both are practically ready. Cause of former failure of the
treatment of residues was that sands and slimes were not
separately treated. There are 20,000 tons accumulated.
Estimated ore reserves are 25,000 tons, worth 20z., and
from October monthly divs. of Is. are promised; yet
shares continue weak because tonnage of reserves is
doubted. ■
The 11 leading mines of Kalgoorlie—Associated,
Horseshoe, Perseverance, Boulder, Northern, Kalgurli,
Hainault, Lake View, Oroya, South Kalgurli, and Star-
are now using a shade over 200 gals, of Mundanng water
per ton treated. Price of water is ss. per 1000 gals.,
which works out at Is. per ton.
* * * *
That ancient wild cat, Kalgoorlie Amalgamated,
is to be reconstructed with (hold tight!) 1,200,000 shares
of a nominal 3s. each. Holders of old scrip are to receive
share per share, with right to subscribe for three shares
paid up to 2s. for each old share. Of the Is. assessment
2d. is payable on application, 2d. on allotment, rest in
calls of 2d. at intervals of two months. Scheme is utterly
absurd. Properties concerned include old Block 45, on
which first telluride on Golden Mile was found. Since
last reconstruction, in November, 1901, practically nothing
has been done on the mine except by tributors,
and they were debarred from working on the likeliest
places. The £6250 then raised has apparently been spent
in directors’ fees and London exes. Scheme should be
left severely alone, and holders of old scrip should cut
their loss and be done with it. The chances are .not
worth the risk.
* * * •
Euro, Laverton (W.A.), which was condemned
last year by Bewick, Moreing, is apparently not an abso-
lute'duffer. The whole surface outfit, which cost over
£50,000, was sold for £4OOO. The 40-head mill was pulled
down and transferred to the Lancefield, where it is now
working. After the ground was abandoned, it was re-
pegged by working miners, who have had 600 tons treated
at the public battery for 6050 z. Party has now purchased
a 10-head mill. It seems incredible that B. M. and Co.
should have counselled pulling down machinery from a
20dwt. mine and shifting it to one worth little more than
sdwt. But those are the figures.
* * * *
Crosscut at 280 ft. level of the Waihi, Davy-
hurst (W.A.), has been driven east 300 ft. without meeting
anything payable. This looks as if none of the reefs live
down. The* new reef discovered by manager Watts is
300 ft. east of the shaft on the surface, and, unless it is
underlying very strongly east, it must have pinched out.
The next few feet of crosscutting will decide this. The
ore from this lode is being underhand stoped to keep up
the average of the crushings. Were it not for this, re-
turns would be unpayable. Looks as if this show is to
peter out like Mt. Callion, Mulwarrie, and others in same
district. Such is quartz mining in W.A.
• ♦ * *
From a man who should know: —Westralia
Mt. Morgans was registered in April, 1899, and, although
working continuously, has sunk to 650 ft. only. Sons of
Gwalia, under Bewick, Moreing, since 1901 has been
developed to 1850 ft., and is profitably treating 9000 tons
of 8 to lldwt. ore, whilst Vivian (10dwt.), Cosmopolitan
(6dwt.), and East Murchison United (4Jdwt.), under same
management, have shown similar development. Great
Boulder is behindhand in some things ; yet Hamilton is
working at 1950 ft., and has 12f- miles of, work-
ings, in addition to 5£ miles of diamond-drilling.
Present unprofitable returns of Westralia Mt. Morgans
(remembering that it did pay well, and is probably not
paying now simply because exploration was not pushed
on) point to incompetent management somewhere. A
system which allows influence to appoint totally incap-
able men to responsible positions should be rooted up. R.
B. Nicholson, of the Ivanhoe, in his recent report to
London directors on Mt. Morgans, impresses the necessity
of immediately undertaking vigorous development by
sinking a further 150 ft. and opening up the lower levels.
He says the main shoot dips sharply 43deg., and the early
rich values which paid handsome divs. have been lost in
consequence. Recent returns show a stage of early
paralysis, and the directors of the co. should consider it
imperative to adopt Nicholson’s advice. Directors A. E.
Morgans and Gilbert, who own the majority of shares,
appear to be reluctant to make a call, preferring to
scratch away, in the hope of something turning up. And
in a deep mine does anything ever just “ turn up t No ,
it has to be dug up.
» * * •
Marble Bar and Nullagine (W.A.) are still con-
tributing a fair amount of gold, but scarcity of firewood
and mining timber keeps this promising field in the back-
ground. With only a couple of batteries working, over
4000 oz. was obtained for July. A feature of the Pilbarra
is that, with one or two exceptions, all mines are worked
by the miners who own them. There is a reasonable
prospect of a railway from Port Hedland, which is certain
to cause a jump in this district’s mining.
* * * *
“ Warr ” writes : Lennonville, which, a few
years ago, was one of the show places of the Murchison
(W.A.) goldfield, is now a desolate mining town of the
past, and a standing ad vt. of that field’s rich but short
and shallow shoots of gold. More than half of the popula-
tion has drifted to other places. The batteries on the
Long Reef, Burra-Burra and Express mines are closed
down and for sale —40 head of stamps altogether. Fiea-
mont’s 20 head have been gone some time. The state
battery is going about half-time on low grade ore.
* ■» * *
Broken Hill Block 10 has its new slime dressing
plant just about ready ; and it badly wants something to
improve the look of its mill figures. In last half-yearly
report (to March 31st) directors stated that the null was
getting out 65T8 per cent, of the lead and 37'29 per cent,
of the silver, and they expected much better than that.
As a matter of fact, in April lead recovery went to 68-4
per cent, and silver to 36 - 5 per cent. Since then not only
have lead contents tailed off about 1 per cent., but
recoveries have got worse as well. There is less lead in
the ore, and, of what there is, less is being got
out. Latest figures show recovery of only 62 per cent,
lead ; of silver 34-2 per cent. A unit of lead is worth
about 2s. Bd. ; so this loss is a serious matter, especially
if costs have not been much reduced. If the
3154 tons of ore which were treated during the last week
in August were 15 per cent, lead, like the stuff which was
going through up to a couple of months ago, instead of
the actual 14 per cent., and if 67 per cent, instead of 62
per cent, of it were recovered, it would make a difference
of 43 tons of lead in the weekly output; so that about
represents the extent of Block 10 s recent falhng-away


Joint Stock Co. s Journal (London) July 20,
1904, writes :—“ One of the offices which are in the happy
position, that they can look back upon a distinct advance
in the year of leanness —1903—is the Colonial Mutual,
which, as the title states, is an office whose profits are
shared to the last farthing- by participating policy-
holders.”*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King-streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting; it consists of a twenty horse-power gas-engine
belted to a “ Ganz ” twelve kilowatts dynamo, a “ Ganz ”
switch-board containing all the measuring and controlling
instruments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The
generating machinery runs continually during the day
time at its full capacity and highest efficiency, the surplus
current being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies
all necessary electricity required during the night; and it
forms also a substantial reserve in case of accidents.
Compared with the previous method of working, a saving
of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant, the
contractors for which were the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh-streets,
South Melbourne, as sole Australian agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.*
* * * +
The Waihi Mine management (M.L.), is making
extensive additions to the milling plant in order to be
in a position to deal more effectively with the sulphide
ores which will for the future be the product from their
lower levels. Concentration will be a special feature in
the treatment, and the company accordingly, before
deciding upon the tvpe of concentrator to be adopted,
made exhaustive tests of the different machines pro-
curable in the market and finally decided to adopt the
Wilfley Concentrator, and have placed an order for 25
tables with the Austral Otis Engineering Company, South
Melbourne, sole manufacturers for Australasia. This
firm has just completed and shipped the machines to the
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock arid Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange; for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriotion of cast or wrought iron work.*
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Cov. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 25001i.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factorv work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
Queensland Smelting Co. now holds the
Pinnacles, the best Barrier claim outside Broken Hill.
Four or five co.’s struggled with it and mostly tripped
over the dressing of the ore, though the co. that hung on
longest and dropped most money was a tribute co., and
was pulled up by royalty. Every mining field seems to
need one shocking example ; the Barrier got what it
needed in this claim, and no other tribute co. has ever
been formed there since. Pinnacles’ old trouble was
pyrrhotine ; present owners don’t seem to worry about
that, in view of the high percentage of silver and the
absence of zinc. They are making money out of the
mine, which is showing some first-rate faces of ore.
DHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
» Cornsacks, Woolpacks, (Hue, Shellac, ‘‘Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
Correspondence Invited.
hy. markwald,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
Slimes treatment will, no doubt, help the recovery figures,
though it won't put any more lead in the ore ; on the
other hand, it probably won’t add much to profits, for
slimes re-treatment is, on the whole, the least profitable
branch of B.H. milling work. The only crumb of comfort
is that last half-year, with lead not as strong as it is now,
co. macfe a profit of £20,438 on a recovery of 63 - 3 per cent,
of the lead and 35 - 26 per cent, of the silver, and with an
Output only two-thirds present size. It seems certain,
however, that the enormous improvement which the
market said was certain to follow the starting of the new
mill hasn’t materialised, and isn’t likely to ; while the
great variation in the grade of the ore throws a dark
suspicion on the estimate of ore reserves.
Disappointing results from treatment for lead
and silver may have had a good deal to do with Block 10
accepting an offer for 100,000 tons of its “ tailings,” Great
deal of tnystefy about the deal; it was put thyoitgh by
the Commercial Bank of Australia on behalf, it is said, of
one of the acid-process syndicates. This syndicate,
which ha's art option over another 500,000 tons of
the “ tailings,” will put up works somewhere along
the railway line handy to Broken Hill. It will, no doubt,
keep its eye glued on the silver alnipst as hard as upon
the zinc. To call this stuff “ tailings” is almost humorous.
The metals in a ton of Block 10 ore are worth, at market
value, £8 12s. 6d. ; and of that a trifle tinder £2 is got out
in the concentrated (excluding the' zinc, of course, which
isn’t paid for). Almost the whole Of the Other £6 12s. 6d.
is in the “ tailings’’—including two-thirds of the silver
and one-third of the lead. As far as can be made out the
co. will get about ss. 6d. per ton for this. It looks like
giving money away ; but a pound in the hand is worth
more than two in a tailings dump.
* * * *
New Aus. Broken Hill Consols, the oldest Bull
concern now working on the Barrier, lately decided on a
new issue of 600,000 pref. shares at Is., offering 150,000
for a start. Co., which owns a property east of the
Broken Hill lode, from which some nearly-pure silver
slugs have been taken, hasn’t paid a div. since 1891—in
fact, the div. paid then was by a co. of which the present
co. is a reconstruction. Lately it tired of the hunt for
rich slugs in the old mine, and took up a couple of blocks
on the south end of the field, on the flat country where
the South Blocks and White Leads are ; new issue is to
test these. Except at the top of a metal boom prospects
there are just about as sick as they are at the original
mine.
• • * *
Mount Boppy (N.S.W.) continues to be known
as a good sound mine that keeps its 60-head mill on good
average-grade ore and its monthly returns on the respect-
able side of 3000 oz, Up to past few months milling ores
have been reasonably amenable to battery and cyanide,
but the fly in the ointment now becomes such an unpleas-
antly large insect, notwithstanding the Wilfley tables,
that a roasting process for the refractory sulphides is
urgently required; Recovery from sulphides has never
been move than partly satisfactory, and accumulation of
payable tailings, when the smelting process comes along,
vti 11 be formidable'; Ore bodies at lower levels are developing
satisfactorily, and Mt. Boppy has almost the unique record
o'f seridirig everything that’s" broken to the mill; Develop-
ments ort surface, by Ariglo-Australidrt Oo;, which holds
the Boppy South and WeSterri leases under Option, also
begin to look interesting. So far an offsho'ofc from main
reef, of apparently valueless manganese quartz, has been!
opened into the optionist’s property ; the following of
this is either a serious admission that Mt. Boppy main
lode cuts off 1200 ft. south from main shaft, or that there
is a persistent policy of avoiding the extension towards
Mt. Boppy South property. Indications in any case are
that Mt. Boppy Southern leases will shortly pass in,to
the possession of the Anglo-Austral people ; and thus will
the pups be let off the chain.
* * * *
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), consequent on the
purchase of its neighbor, the Western, and some interest-
ing developments in its own ore-bodies, makes some en-
thusiastic remarks in its half-yearly report. Introduction
of Moore slimes treatment process takes pride of place
amongst mine’s efforts at gold-recovery, and cyanide
manager Chappie gets decently near to the estimate he
made before installing the Moore. From 2292 tons of
slimes there was an extraction of 2dwt., at a cost of 4s.
per ton ; and when things are going smoothly, Chappie’s
former estimate, of a profit of ss. per ton on the 85,000
tons, won’t be much out; Occidental, however, hasn't
been consistent in dividends, and with an estimated ex-
penditure t 1 come of £4OOO, divided amongst renewed
stamps, rt>ck-breaker and boilers, there doesn’t seem
enough profit in this year’s output to justify encouraging
remarks. All the same it’s interesting to note that mine’s
profits are paying for its new plant, and that for 1906
there are bigger possibilities for the Occidental than for
most mines.
ft ft * *
Occidental’s half -year showed a profit of £2664 ;
of this £2IOO was divided. Net overdraft stands at £l7lO,
and the Western’s £100!) purchase money is paid. Direc-
tors’ own prophecy as to future divs. is 3d. in Oct., ditto
as an Xmas box, ditto monthly after that,
■K it ' * *
Mt. Boppy South (N.S.W. ), a mine struggling
along on a slender capital and doing its best to become
another Mt. Boppy and take some of the unemployed off
the market, gets its application for State aid refused,
without the papers being even submitted to the local
mines inspector for report. On the other hand, aid has
been granted to a couple of copper shows in the vicinity,
one of which, to writer’s knowledge, has been showing re-
turns of 18 per cent, to 20 per cent, ore from smelting
works, and keeping a couple of men for past four years.
Also it might be pointed out that aid has been granted
continuously to a gold-prospecting sho w that started with
a color or two on the surface, and got not evert that much
throughout the sinking of its shaft and in crosscutting
therefrom. Administration of N.S.W. prospecting vote is
weird, If the Board can’t trust reports of its resident
officers, latter should be replaced. If it can, then they
should .be followed. This ce.utralised, secret administra-
tion gets on a geuuine.prospector’s nerves,
* * * *
Premier, Cobar (N.S.W,), which has been men-
tioned before as a prospecting show of promise adjoining
The Syndicate’s phenomenally rich “ Peak,” should decide,
oy present crosscut, whether the “ blue lode ” lives into the
property or not. Indications in shaft point to proximity
of lode formation. Great Peak Extended, which joins the
“Peak” on the other end, shares with the O.S.A. in
unearthing a silver lead deposit. But the difference is
that, though Peak Extended really has a defined silver
lode, it is quiescent, while 0.5. A., which hasn’t quite the
same thing, is boomed till you can almost think you hear
the roar of molten silver rushing through the universe.
August effort of Queen Bee (N.S.W.) is 50 tons
copper, and equals previous month’s, and in consequence
another 3d. div. is ahead; also reserve will benefit.
Generally speaking, Queen Bee’s development (particularly
in length of shoot) looks more like the makings of a sound
mine than it has done hitherto ; and if the next level
opens up to expectations, there is no reason why output
shouldn’t be increased. In 50,000 shares of 10s., Bee is
not over-capitalised ; and as there’s almost enough already
reserved from profits to make additions to reverb3 and
other things, shareholders are not likely to be called upon
for small liability due on present issue, for some time to
come, anyway.
* * » *
The unfortunate Stockton colliery, Newcastle
(N.S.W.), has struck more trouble ; on notification by
Mines Department, the men have been ordered out of
“Garrett’s” section, cutting off about half the coal-
supply ; but they have been given faces by working two
shifts instead of one in the rest of the mine. Trouble
doesn’t, however, strike the co. quite unawares ; for a
year or so tests of the strata between the ocean bed and
tbe workings have been proceeding, mainly under
iiydrographer Halligan, of the Works Department. There
is about 200 ft. between bed and workings, but it is found
that only 80ft. of it, in places, is sandstone ; other 120 ft. is
porous alluvium, which, the Mines Department holds,
can’t count in the minimum cover of 126 ft. required by
Coal Mines Act. Parts of the mine—notably “ Duncan’s ”
and “ Wilson’s ’’—had been previously abandoned; even
where the cover is 230 ft. crushes have occurred, sand and
clay coming into the fallen bords. 00. barricades these
workings; but the danger is that, while these 10 or 12ft.
barricades, made of debris, hold back sand and clay, they
wouldn’t stop a rush of water. Minimum cover under
the English Act is the same as in N.S.W., but under
leases from the State a greater cover is often prescribed ;
several workings under the German Ocean, where the
headings are as much as 3J miles out beyond high water-
mark (the Seaham and Ryhope, for instance), have to
keep from 300 ft. to 360 ft. overhead. Workings under the
Irish Sea come right up to the minimum, and in the
Whitehaven colliery, run out 3£ miles (though the White-
haven is a deep mine); but, for the most part, the Irish
Sea has an unusually good bottom. Generally, it ha,s
been found that it is very little use prescribing a mini-
mum; what is safe enough in one place would be
desperately dangerous m #
The bi°* diamond found atMt. Werong, Bathurst
wav (N.S.W.), and valued at £2OO, is not, according to
Sydney jewellers, quite so rare a specimen as Government
Geologist E. F. Pittman indicates. Very valuable dia-
monds, admittedly of Australian origin, reach the trade
in Sydney and Melbourne from time to time, and are no
more heard of as Australian products. It was by a mere
fluke that Donaldson and Williams held on to their Mt.
Werong find ; had they parted with it for the £2 or £lO
which was offered them, it is unlikely the stone would
ever have been credited to a mine in Australia.
* * « *
Directors of Brilliant Extended, Charters
Towers, notify holders that £12,500, being half the pur-
chase-money for the mill and cyanide works, has been paid,
leaving £I4OO in hand. They have decided to pay the
balance (£12,500) in three months. Last month co. turned
out and treated 8120 tons for gold and concentrates worth
£7963, Return from 2650 tons treated by cyanide was
£1240; total of £9203 for four weeks. Costs, working
them out from last balance sheet, are £2 ss. 6d, a ton ;
this would leave' a profit of £2105 for the month. Costs
may have been reduced, but hardly sufficiently to pay
£12,500 iri three months on last month’s returns. Output
will have'to be doubled,- and no difficulty should be experi-
enced ini getting stone, as the deep ground is looking well,
especially in the main underlie at No, 9, where the
pillars are being removed. Haulage is troubling
management; 31 million gallons of water a month from a
vertical depth of 2000 ft. takes some shifting with tanks.
Stopes and drives from the bottom level (No. 12) up to
No. 9 show from 18in. to sft. of mineral stone. Why
sampling has not been done in such a forward show is a
mystery. Dividends are in sight; possibly one for
Christmas. There is also a lot of expenditure ahead that
should eventually reduce costs. Capacity of cyanide
works—already five 100-ton vats—is to be doubled. . This
will necessitate new conveyors and elevators—practically
a new plant on the old site. More economic power for the
mill is asked for. Presently the whole of the haulage
should be through what is known as the Bonnie shaft.
No. 2 stope, which keeps the Extended shaft going, will
be beaten out this term. But then there is the water.
No. 1 shaft is unfit, on account of a twist, to handle
31 million gallons a month. And it will be expensive to
travel stone up two underlies, along two drives, a total of
about 1900 ft., to No. I'shaft, when the Bonnie shaft is
within 500 ft. of where the stone is broken. Manager
MacLeod has a lot of ideas that will reduce costs ; but if
he wants a new barrow, he has to notify directors that he
intends to move at the next meeting that one be
procured. #
Marshall’s Queen, like some other Charters
Towers (Q.) shows, is in a bad way. Co. started half-year
that ended in Feb , 1904, with £134 in hand. After treat-
ing 3092 tons for 18630 z., and selling residues that
brought total value to £7314, there was a loss of £1334.
Next term Up to August, 1904, showed no improvement;
3994 tons for 23360 Z,, worth, with residues, £8909 ; again
a loss of £1052. Half-year ending Feb., 1905, tonnage
slumped to 1992 tons, which gave 14220 z,, worth, without
residues, £4680, This time there was a loss of £539,
though the crushing averaged 14dwt, During last term,
e'ridirig August, 1905, Co. started concentrating and call*
making- ; 1560 tons were put through for 7580 Z, ; this,
with sands and concentrates, was Worth £3497 ; ag-ain a
loss of £155. Overdraft is now over £3OOO, and there
seems no immediate hope of reducing it. The 41st, 42nd,
and 43rd calls brought iri £938 ; arrears amount to £862,
so some long-suffering contributing- holders are evidently
full up. No. 5 east and west from the new* underlie
carries 18 inches of well-mineralised stone ; but somehow
it fails to stand the battery test. No. 6 has stone, but it
won’t stand inspection. Other parts show, by the report,
up to 20 inches, but it never finds its way to the hopper.
All that the co. can do is wait for something to arrive, as
it did for Ah Pong to move the vote of thanks for the able
manner, &c., &c., at the last meeting.
* * + *
When people from all over the place were rush-
ing in applications for “permits to search” under the
Mining on Private Property Act at Coppabella (N.S.W.),
Warden Gibson began to ask for a deposit of £1 along
with each application. Apparently he reckoned that
that would stop the rush of purely speculative applica-
tions (anybody can apply, whether he has ever seen the
field or not), and give the bona-fide prospector a show.
But it looks as though the Department wasn’t consulted
first; anyhow, a day or two afterwards the men on the
spot, who had willingly paid the £l, had it refunded to
them. Meantime the department has had a surveyor
laying off the blocks, many of which will certainly never
have a pick driven in them, and for this work the State
doesn’t get a penny. A lot of people who think that such
indirect State subsidies are quite the proper tiling in the
wild-cat promoting business would be horrified at the
mere suggestion that the State should subsidise a factory.
The amiable floater is floating very well in Mel-
bourne just now, under new conditions. Formerly the
practice was to put on the market cp.’s with good-sized
registers, say, 20,000 or 30,000 shares, and to seize a big
block of paids-up. The market now scorns paid-up shares,
especially if such scrip represents the payment made to the
original holders. Hence it is no unusual thing to see such
Stock offered in vain- at a solid reduction below the
figure at which scrip bearing a liability is trafficked in.
The holding of the vendors in this way becomes less valu-
able, While the gentle broker and his pals float out on the
market they make for the contributing scrip. The later
type, however, is modelled on other lines. Take the
Annan River Tin Mines, a Bananafend tin show of
hitherto unknown merits, but just floated in Sinellbourne
—capital £30,000, in 5000 shares of £6 each. No prospectus
published ; but there are reports by two or three men
who, for all the world knows, may or may not know some-
thing about alluvial tin, and £6OOO goes to the credit of
working account, so it seems fair to assume that 1000
shares, representing that amount, have been placed.
There are 500 shares to go to reserve, leaving 3500
unaccounted for. In the derelict condition of most
Queensland alluvial tin mines, one could imagine
that 2000 shares have gone to the vendors,
leaving 1500 shares to be cut up between the promoters.
At £6 per share this works out at £9OOO. There is some
assumption respecting these fig-ures, due to the non-issue
of a prospectus, but that does not matter, as all that is
sought to be done is to show how little-co. floats go.
The point now to be cleared up is whether the show has
ever been worked before ; if so, why was it abandoned,
and how has the drift been tested by the reporting
experts? Till data on these points are forthcoming, the
best thing is to let the floaters hold the ir float.
* * * *
Vulcan (N.Q.) has just finished its best half-
year. Tin realised £35,095 ; profit was £22,790, or just
under £39 per ton of black tin. On a paid capital
(£28,233) £15,400 was sent back to shareholders, making
£26,400 in the 12 months, or more than the whole capital
within the last 18 months. Total to date (14 years) 7645
tons black tin from 72,865 tons ore ; gross value,
£389,306 ; divs., £105,563. From first to last co. has
averaged £SO 18s. per ton for black tin ; past half-year’s
average was £59 125., so about £5150 of the profit was due
to recent abnormal price of the metal. There are many
years’ reserves in sight; last six months, in consequence
of developments at 900 ft., have about doubled the quan-
tity. There is ore still standing right away down from
200 ft., though down to 500 ft. it is of under average
qualitv. At 600 ft., present main workings, it runs to 12
or 13'per cent, black tin. It is a great little mine,
handled very cheaply (directors’ and audit fees last half
totalled £4O 45.), and able, on account of the rich patches
it has, to face a tin slump that would knock out almost
every other mine in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
The people who have rushed O.K. copper mine
(N.Q.) to the front have got hold of something in tin
that they are going to rush also. Dalzell, a pros-
pector out from Irvinebank, found it; he and his son
struck a tin boulder in a creek, and poked about till they
found where it came from. What they did find they called
the Great Boulder. They got on to a big body of lode tin
stuff in a steep hill, and opened up a face 20ft. wide. But
as thev had to pack the ore 16 miles to Irvinebank, they
would rather have had less of it and richer. It ran from
4to 8 per cent, and in a few patches up to 10 per cent.,
black tin ;it took 6 per cent, to pay. Then a syndicate
of three, all O.K. men (John Moffatt, the big man in N.Q.
mining; E. B. Torpv, O.K. director; and W. J. Munro,
first manager of 0.K.) bought the Dalzells out, for, it is
said, £4500; and made a co. Shares were rushed—any-
thing with Moffatt’s name is rushed in N.Q. just now—
and three times over-subscribed for. Oapital, 75,000
shares, 10s. each; vendors collared 30,000 paids ; 30,000
contribs. were offered at 4s. application, 4s. allotment.;
other 15,000 reserved. Vendors also collared £sooo—
Moffatt is beginning to learn how to open his mouth.
Name first proposed, Dalzell’s Great Boulder, has been
wisely altered to plain Dalzell’s.
In some points Dalzell’s is like the 0.K. , first
southern news of which, by the way, The Bulletin
printed; and that mine is doing all that was promised
about it. Both of them are big surface shows, and that
is as far as anybody can go at present. There are two big
cuts in Dalzell’s, the top of one 45ft. above the floor of the
other ; lower cut shows a 30ft. body at the floor. Tin has
been followed some distance up the ridge. Whether it is
a surface body or a lode that goes down, is another
matter. Nobody who knows tin and N.Q. will be too
sure that it will go down. If it doesn’t, there is good
picking in it, anyhow. Average showing is about sor 6
p.c. black tin ; and the stuff can be worked up to over 70
p.e. New co. doesn’t propose to put up a battery of its
own right off ; arrangements have been made with Irvine-
bank Co. for a mill (probably 20 head) a mile and a half
away ; a light tram Will join mill and mine. New co. will
at once start probing the deposit with a vertical shaft
dropped from the mouth of the lower tunnel. Railway
station is within about four miles of the mill site,
* * * *
Abdul Wade’s attempt to shift O.K. matte over
the diabolical N.Q. tracks with camels hasn’t panned out
too, well, though the keen Afghan has 330.0 t the beasts on
the job. His contract is to shift 400 tons a month ; last
month he did 500 tons from the mine and 200 tons back-
loading, but still it is ahead of him to the extent of 700
tons. Seven traction-engines have therefore just been
put on the road, which is worse than vile in places, and
there are six teams also at work. Present output from the
phenomenal surface stuff is worth £20,000 or thereabouts
per month, and just on half of it is profit. Wade himself
is o'rte of the biggest #
“Platmati”: In a recent Bulletin saw Mt.
Molloy (Q.) described as a big low-grade mine. Big
medium grade would be better, as ore put through
averages over 10 per cent, copper. No, 2 North drive,
170 ft. from shaft and in maiden ground, shows 10ft. of
stone, averaging 13 per cent. It stopped in poor grade
stuff, but a crosscut west showed that the lode proper had
been left on the footwall. One furnace puts through 60
to 70 tons a day, resulting matte being worth between 40
and 50 per cent, copper. Decided now to instal a con-
verter to produce blister copper, thus saving carriage.
Generally, however, the co. is opening up big ore reserves
before increasing the plant. Smelter is erected on Rifle
Creek, which comes out of the mountains back of Port
Douglas, where rain falls 12 months in the year ; so the
water question will never be a trouble. There is any
quantity of good timber around. Altogether Mt. Molloy
is one of the best copper shows in N.Q. so far as present
developments go, which must be pleasant reading; for the
old shareholders in the Melbourne co. that let it slide.
Still, there seems to be nothing else of any consequence in
the vicinity; in fact, only two shows are being prospected
—Sweet William, four miles north, and the W. 8., two
miles east.
* » * *
Roma (Q.), while sinking the artesian bore
whiph gives the town a splendid water supply, struck a
stratum yielding natural gas. This gas has been running to
waste so long now that Roma believes it will never give
out, and is preparing to bottle it to light houses and
streets. Also Roma argues that, if there is gas so handy,
petroleum oil can’t be far off ; so a co. has been told by
the Government that if it spends £2OOO in the search, the
State will put up another £2OOO.
*■»*;*
“M.C.”: German ore-buyers are worth watch-
ing, Recently, wolfram slumped, yet the Hamburg
people seem anxious to get ore, and invite quotations
per medium of Q. Government. Guess there is something
about Queensland wolfram ore that gives it value besides
its . tungstic acid. A Q. miner hunted round specimen
cases in Geological Museum, and found ore branded
*< Titanium ’’—very much like specimens from Q. wolfram
mines. Small quantities of radio-active minerals in wolf-
ram ore would make it very valuable.
# * * *
Once more lift the hat to an old friend. 11 The
reef is going strongly (not strong this time) underfoot.
The operations of the co. are being regarded with
considerable interest by Ideal residents.” This co.,
with its 24ft. of reef going “Strongly,” is the Pound
Hill, of Smythesdale (Vic.), a patchy district where a
dredge has been struggling along for months, and
where there isn’t a quartz reef worth the name
nearer than the Jubilee and the Birthday mines at Ber-
ringa. Pound Hill consists of a shaft and a 60ft. level,
from which this “ strongly underfoot ” stone is dipping.
00. is not taking too much risk about the shoot living
down, as it is opening out at 100 ft. By the same token,
it is putting up a 10-head battery, which no doubt will
bring in revenue one way or another.
When Bryant’s brother went from the Main
Leads North, Maryborough (Vic.), to the Glenfine South,
a few people smiled, among them M’Crory ; but
when Wills went from the Duke and Main Leads
Consols to the Spring Hill Leads, Creswick, the smile
went on the other side. Wills’ forte is cheap
mining work, and as Browne has done all the graft Wills,
no doubt, will reap the reward. But it’s a pity the new
man will not be able to do more in the Spring Hill Leads
than prove that the Berry lead runs into the Berry
United, as there isn’t enough ground ahead in the lease
to return shareholders a fraction of what they have sunk
in the mine in the past. Still that’s nothing new in
alluvial mining in Victoria.
* * * ♦
South New Moon, Eaglehawk (Vic.) shares have
fluttered to below the £7 mark, and there isn’t too much
certainty that thev will get above it unless the ’co. hustles
out more stone. The best quartz has been coming from
the 1060 ft. level north and the 1250 ft. level, but the way
in which recent yields have been shaping has been making-
people think that there mayn’t be a long continuance of
the high yields that have enabled 2s. a fortnight to be
paid, It is this doubt about how the mine will shape
when the good-grade dirt at the two levels stated is
beaten out that causes the market to look flabby.
*** * ,
Tasmanian Copper, Ltd., is a Bull show, *
floated with a capital of £325,000 when it wasn’t worth
325,000 pence, ore being so intractable as to practically
defy treatment. In the prospectus 1,700,000 tons of ore
were said to be in sight, whereas that estimate to-day is
cut down to 170,000 tons. Taking the ore at the esti-
mated worth of £6 ss. per ton, it ought to show
a profit on treatment; but it is such a
delectable blend of zinc, copper, lead, silver, and gold, as
to pretty well defy economical handling. A chance
exists with magnetic separation. So 40,000 tons have
been bought by the German customs works chemists at
Zeelian, who, small blame to them, won’t let too much
of the £6 55., if it is recoverable, pass their palms.
00., to even up matters, not long back bought the Blin-
man copper mine, Port Augusta w'ay (S. Aus.). In seven
months it knocked out 750 tons of 50 per cent, matte,
and netted £6500 out of the first six months’campaign,
despite poor water supply, long cartage, and difficulty of
obtaining fluxes. The Blinman in old times was a notable
copper producer, and it may be that Bull may get his
money back from it. He hasn’t much chance of doing
it with the Rosebery, the original show.
* * * *
Blue Tier tin (Tas.) will be liable to bite some-
body in the end if the ore, as is reported, does not average
more than 4 per cent. tin. Allowing that 4 per cent, was
recovered in a concentrate (60 per cent, and upwards), the
value even at present prices would only be about 14s.
But 20s. per unit is a very high average for tin ore, so the
Blue Tier people must reckon on mining, milling, etc.,
under 10s. per ton. Bischoff costs are so low that any
comparison with a proposition like Blue Tier would be
likely to land confiding speculators in the soup.
* * * *
A S. Aus. Government boring party is again out
in the Northern Territory. This party is looking for
reefs at Yam Creek that have been lost through the
Choivs turning the ground upside down. After boring at
Yam, Brock and Pine Creeks, the borers go to the Victoria
River to try for coal. Geologist H. Y. L. Brown says
coal is pretty sure to be found there at about 200 feet or
so. This will give an impetus—to the Chows or some-
body.
* « * *
Ah Sin is gradually but surely getting the
upper hand in the Northern Territory. Yellow miners
now demand seven shillings a day. They are the tributors
everywhere, the whole industry being in their hands,
And what does Australia get out of it? Just nothing.
■tt ■M- #
“ Quidam”: Trans-Pacific Dredging Co. (Brazil),
which had a lot of derision hurled at it when co. w’as
hatched in North Queensland, on account of Brazil being
so far off and fantastic a field, has developed into the
Matto Grosso, a company of £200,000 5-peso shares
(about £1), and shares have lately been sold by writer in
Charters Towers for £2 7s. 6d. net. A considerable
amount of Melbourne and Ballarat capital has got into
the new co., Ballarat sellers now standing at £3. Tran--
Pacific owes its origin to the report of David Simon, an
old North Queensland prospector, who was one of Lane’s
New Australians, but got off “ on his own ” prospecting
up the Paraguay, and eventually worked his way back to
old Australia. Apparently David’s good opinion of the
dredging prospects in Matte Grosso are now shared by a
good many others.
"** * e
Big firm of Dalgety and Go., after some year®’'
hesitation, has gone into the stock agency business
in Adelaide. It has bought out Barker Bros., which
was controlled by John Barker, a versatile gentleman
who was one time judge for the Adelaide Kacing Club,
and is still greatly interested in church matters. Some
years ago Dalgety and Co. made a bold bid to buy out
Elder, Smith and Co.’s business. Stated by those who*
know that the bid was very nearly bold enough, for the
stock industry wasn’t booming at the time.
* * * w
“Redcap” asks: “Could you settle a large
argument in these parts by telling us the record deep-
shaft sinking for one month in Australia and S’Africa ? ’
Who knows?
* * » *
The taste for Australian wines seems to be
steadily growing in England. In the face of a continuous
wail from dealers that the nation is becoming more
temperate, there was an increase of 87,813 gallons in the
imports from the Commonwealth in the first half of the
present year. Imports from foreign countries decreased
by 258,989 gallons in the same period, France being the
greatest sufferer.


HEALTHY GIRLHOOD.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
Give Color, Strength and Vigor.
HEALTHY girlhood is the only path to
healthy womanhood. The merging of
girlhood into womanhood lays a new tax
upon the blood—-and nothing can pay
that tax but Hr. Williams’ Pink Pills, for they
alone contain the elements that go to make new
blood. It is the overtaxing of the scanty blood-
supply that makes growing girls suffer from all
those headaches, backaches and sideaches—all
that paleness, weakness and weariness—all that
languor, fainting spells and nervousness—the per-
verse appetite, the despondency, and the constant
ill-health.
Unhealthy girlhood is bound to lead to unhealthy
womanhood and a life of misery. Isothing but
the blood-building qualities of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills can save a girl when first she undertakes the
tasks and trials of womanhood. Ihat is the time
when Nature makes new demands upon the blood-
supply. But Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually
make new pure, rich, red blood which meets those
new demands with ease. In this simple, scientific
way, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills fill a girl with over-
flowing health and strength. Without them, no
young woman can be fully fitted for the duties and
delights of wifehood and motherhood.
“ Soon after I turned 14, my health began to
fade,” said Miss Roughley, 422 Jones-street,
Ultimo, Sydney. “My face was pale and sickly,
and my lips and gums were almost blue. Round
my eves were heavy, black rings. When 1 held
my hand up to the light you could almost see
through it. I had hardly any blood at all. My
feet used to swell up dreadfully. Everyone said
it must be Dropsy. I was too weak to dust a
room. Someone had always to be kept m the
house to do the work that I should have done, 1
always wanted to be lying down. I couldn t be
bothered with anything or anybody.
“ I grew to hate the sight of food,” Miss
Roughley added. '‘Every mouthful lay on my
chest like a weight of lead, and gave me a terrible
cuttin o - pain. Night was what I dreaded most.
would lie awake till daylight. When it
was time to get up, 1 had not the energy to dress
myself. I sat on the bed for an hour or more, try-
ing to struggle into my clothes. I was afraid of
my life that I was going into a Decline.
“ At last I got so bad that I had to go to the
Hospital in Sydney. After swallowing dozens of
bottles of medicines there, I came home as bad as
the day I went in. I was more nervous and irri-
table. I couldn’t bear the least sound. I would
cry my eyes out for nothing at all,” Miss
Roughley went on. “If I walked a bit fast my
heart felt as if it were coming up my throat—and,
for two or three minutes, my breath was gone. If
I went as far as the grocers, a terrible pain caught
me in the back, and a horrible faint feeling came
over me. I felt so weak and dreadfully ill that I
used to wonder how ever I would get home again.
“As the weeks slipped by, I grew worse and
worse. I thought I would never be strong again.
Then one day I read how Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills had cured a young girl suffering almost the
same way as I was. I sent straight to Pattinson s
for some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. After a box
or two I felt a little better and picked up heart
Miss Roughley concluded. “Every day i
noticed the difference in my appetite, boon 1
was eating as well as anyone in the house.
Gradually, the blood came back to my bps and
cheeks. ‘My old energy and spirits returned, and
I gained in weight. I have been.well and strong
ever since I finished my last box of Dr. Williams
Pink Pills—and that was three or four years ago.
Since my cure I have not had one hour s paili or
sickness. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills saved my life.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually make new
blood. That is why they are the surest cure for
all blood diseases like anaemia, biliousness, indi-
gestion, rheumatism, lumbago, kidney and liver
troubles, and skin troubles like pimples and
eczema. And for just the same reason they are
the greatest help in the world for growing girls
who need new blood, and for women who are
troubled with irregular health, especially those
of forty-five or fifty, when the blood becomes
deranged again. But vou must get the genuine
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—price
2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d., from all chemists
and storekeepers, or direct by mail from the Dr.
Williams Medicine Co., Sydney.
D? WILLI A MS*
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
James Nolan, who died recently at
Warrenheip (Vic.), aged 87, was one of the Eureka
Stockaders. There can’t be many left now unless
they are like the pensioners of the U.S. war of
Independence.
“ Adelaide ” : The late W. E. Spark e was
not “ the richest Australian who died in his own
country since Tyson.” Sparke’s estate was worth
£423,777. J. H. Angas, who lived and died near
Adelaide, left about £750,000 when he passed out
last year.
Ex-Lieutenant Witton, formerly of the
Bushveldt Carbineers, threatens to publish a book
on his South African experiences. But war liter-
ature has slumped below zero, and there is no
prospect of a rise.
“ You think me a funny old chap, and I
think you cheeky young chaps,” said his Excel-
lency Bedford, of Westralia, to a public school the
other day. A N.S.W. Governor of the early
days ordered the arrest of a Sydney citizen who
accosted him with “Hullo, old cock !” Times
change.
Mrs. Kemp, a great-granddaughter of
Philip Gidley King, one of Australia’s very early
Governors, died at Burwood (N.S.W.) the other
day. The Kemps and Kings were closely con-
nected from the beginning of N.S.W. history.
One Kemp jumped the position of Judge Advocate
because, as he informed the Britisli Government
after his deposition, the gaol was full of untried
prisoners and there was no judge in the territory.
He had to stand an action for some of his amateur
judicial proceedings.
The will of H. J. Blake, who was so
strangely dynamited in Westralia (son of Henry
Arthur Blake, a former Irish police magistrate,
whom Queenslanders would not have as a
Governor at any price), has been proved at £248.
Blake's liabilities amount to £5331, so that the divi-
dend looks somewhat small. There are six life
policies amounting to £7OOO, but they were not
included in the application for probate, and in
some cases the work of collection may be difficult.
“ F.R.” : Paragraph in last issue as to
Alfred Deakin’s early days errs in some particulars.
Heakin pere, out of his small salary, paid for the
education of Alfred and his sister ; he had no help
from Robertson or anyone else. Alfred Deakin
was never teacher at the 0. of E. Grammar School,
though he taught at two others. His first debating
society was the University Union; contempo-
rary members were Higgins, Alex. Sutherland
Theo. Fink and Frank Duffy.
Mr. E. A. Petherick, an erstwhile Aus-
tralian bibliophile, now resident in London, has
made a special offer to the Federal Government,
through the Agent-General, of his library of GjJOO
volumes, chiefly on early Australian discoveries,
etc. He asks in return for some post in connection
with a Federal Library when such a thing is
established. The Petherick collection is a most
valuable one and has taken the owner, who
enjoyed special opportunities, quite 25 years to
compile and is only second in importance to Mr.
Mitchell’s unique library.
The way in which parsons of the same
brand butter each other is pathetic. As, for
instance, the London Methodist Times on Brother
Fitchett: —
When l saw him last, five years ago, I compared him to
the captain of one of our great ocean liners. Now I
should rather liken him to an overworked statesman, one
of the weary Titans who hold the world aloft upon their
shoulders.
All that Brother Fitchett has had on his shoulders
lately is a basket of badly-decayed fish, which he
was hawking for all he was worth. The Methodist
Times, by the way, throws some light on the
duties of a Titan by its remark that Fitchett
“confessed to suffering much from social func-
tions.” The Titan who has time for social func-
tions is a loafing Titan.
Joseph Carruthers takes a smaller size in
souls than any previous N.S. Wales Premier.
Premier Tom Price shocked people of
pomp and dignity on September 1 by walking
with the United Masons in the Adelaide Eight
Hours procession.
Mr. P. A. M‘Anulty—lately Taxing Officer
to the Vic. Supreme Court, ont of whose enforced
retirement from that post there were some curious
developments—has been remanded by a Vic. police
court for medical observation.
This remarkable announcement was lately
handed in to a paper in the out-back mud district
of Taihape (M.L.): —
TM undersigned John Clarke 13 not the John Clarke
executed in Darlinghurst Gaol, Sydney, on June 25, 18(i7.
(Signed) John Clarks.
“Melb.”: In a shop I note that long
series of notabilities caricatured by the Weekly
Times 30 years ago. The generation has rolled.
The principal were: Bedney, Barry, Berry,
Casey, Clark, Coppin, Duffy, FitzGibhon,
Francis, Gemmel, Gunst, Harwood, Kerferd,
Lyster, O’Slianassy, Sturt, Tait.
Sydney’s modest citizen, Mr. Alban Gee,
has been elected honorary member of the London
Bulldog Society. As Mr. Gee is the first Austra-
lian thus elevated, his case may be referred to as
Gee Up, and the letters H.B. (for Honorary
Bulldog) should never be forgotten when address-
ing the envelope.
In Tom Roberts’ Commonwealth picture
George Jenkins merely displays the back of his
head for inspection, his lovely whiskers being lost
to view entirely. Senator Styles asked him what
he thought of it. “Well,” said the man who
did things handsomely, “it’s very good, but don t
you think there’s something missing ? Where s my
face ? ”
A schedule of witnesses’ expenses paid by
NSW. Lands Commission shows that neither
Willis, Crick, Carruthers nor R. D. Meagher has
charged any fees for attending and giving evidence.
Which shows astounding moderation on their
part, seeing that Crick and Carruthers are
Dwyers, and R. D. Meagher was a lawyer, and
Nicholas Willis doesn’t seem a gratis sort of man
in a general way.
VETERAN NED HOLLOWAY, the oldest actor
in Australia , as a thorough villain.
Speaker Jenkin Coles, of S.A., is a stickler
for pomp and ceremony. One day Coombe, M.r
when introducing a Bill, failed to get right back
to the bar of the House, as is the custom when
announcing A Bill, Mr. Speaker.” He was
sternly censured, and ordered “as you were.
He repeated his lesson meekly. Later on m the
day Cohen was guilty of a similar fault. He, too,
was pulled up and ordered to do it properly.
Then Cohen, who is a No. 5 man with a No. 19
voice, overdid the business. He got back about
five yards behind scratch, took a long, long breath
and trumpeted like a herd of wild elephants,
“ A Bill, Mr. Speaker ! ” Then the ancient mem- r
bers woke up and wanted to hear about the
earthquake; the pressmen scrambled after their
fluttering notes ; the Speaker adjusted his blown
horsehair —and the dignity of the chair was
satisfied.
The Australian can do other things than
play cricket and bet on horse-races. Whilst the
ERIC BYRON MOORE
(son of V.R.C. secre-
tary), assayer to the
Wild Goose G.M. Co.,
Klondyke.
Foreign-tirade press of
the Commonwealth
constantly represents
the Australian as a
poor creature, incap-
able of any manufac-
turing or engineering
ingenuity, exiled Aus-
tralians are pioneering
in all parts of the
earth. A portrait on
this page shows an
Australian on the
Yukon. The Bulle-
tin sends quite a num-
ber of papers to ex-
Australians in China
and other parts of
Asia. S. Anierica is
sprinkled with Aus
tralians developing its
mines, such as Teddy
Elburn, who intro-
duced the first mining
dredge to Brazil, and
Ernest Dunfee (of Kal-
goorlie, W. A.). The
Australian is all right.
■yic. Premier Bent/'s State motor-car has
twice broken down under him. The Age abuses
Bent for charging the State with the cost of his
vehicle, and reminds him that there are cabmen
anxious to earn an honest living. Cabby does not
thank the Age for this. He never appeals for the
custom of Tommy, that person being the cham-
pion cab-smasher of Melbourne. When a cab is
seen rushing down the street with one side up in
the air, people always suspeot Thomas as the con-
tents. If he would sit on the floor in the exact
centre it wouldn’t matter so much, but he won t.
W. P. Crick, while giving evidence at the
police court in the case of Charles Bath, deposed
that he made things “ very warm for the Com-
mission” on one occasion, so warm that the
Commissioner was glad to get away. -Not to
put too flue a point on it,’ said W.8.C., J-had
six bottles of champagne in me, and I made things
hot for them.” Which recalls a 1 arliamentary
incident. Pious Joe Cook was talking about
revenue when Crick said that the dry and holy
one contributed nothing to the revenue, whereas
he (Crick), who drank three bottles of champagne
a day, was one of the financial props of the State.
Harold George Parsons, who recently died
at Lagos, West Coast of Africa, where he was
District Commissioner and acting police magis-
trate, was formerly of Melbourne. He was edu-
cate.! at Melb. and at Wadham College, Oxford.
He was called to the Bar in 1893, and became a
member of the Legislative Council of Westralia
In ’97 he founded the Kalgoorlie Chamber of
Mines, and was its first vice-president. Also he
served in the Boer war in 1901-2, and was a con-
tributor to Blackwood and the I ortnightly
Review. Altogether he crowded a good deal into
a short life, for he was only 36 when he died, and,
in addition to the matters enumerated, he made
and lost a big fortune, and was once a mayor.
No doubt in private life N.S.W. District
Court Judge Gibson is a mild and amiable person.
But on the Bench he is a tempestuous character,
and those who frequent his Courts have to face a
frequent dust-storm from the Bench. His impa-
tience sometimes goes beyond all tolerance. 1
know what I shall do in this case, he observed, in
a quarter-deck void, the other day. M hen the
Crown case is closed, I shall direct the 3up to
acquit.” And this before the principal witness
had been called 1 The Crown smiled a sickly
guide and strove to bear up, but the Judge carried
out his promise. During a brief experience as a
second Judge in the Arbitration Court, Judge
Gibson's methods came very prominently up tor
public criticism. That was because a new stage
gave him greater prominence, rather than because
of any departure from his District Court manner.
A t indignant Tasmanian writes :
Tasmanian Treasurer Stewart, who, in his Budget
speech spoke of “ the incapacity for work of the majority
of the members of the Commonwealth Parliament, is
prouably the dullest intellect that has ever P over
portfolio. He has introduced one Bill into the House of
Assembly, and muddled it so hopelessly that the Opposi-
tion took it out of his hands and passed it for him. If a
member asks him a question as to a clause, he rubs his
nose on the Bill and mumbles inarticulately, watching
the while over the corner of the paper, until the member
laughs and sits down. Then he tries to dodge the clause
through without replying. He is simply incapable of
conducting five minutes business in committee, and is the
butt of the whole House. He is hopelessly ignorant of
the ordinary political facts of the day. For Heaven s
sake publish to the world that Stewart is a political
accident, and does not represent Tasmanian opinion.
Adelaide’s cleverest surgeon is noted for a
vocabulary long and strong. The nuns at a pri-
vate hospital in the city mildly objected to his
luridness, and fined him threepence for every
hasty swear. The Professor cheerfully paid ; and
when, in a surprisingly short time, enough fines
had been collected, the little sisters ordered a gold
medal with a bad, bold “ Damn ” writ large on the
face of it, and presented it to him. He proudly
wears it now on his watch-cham—the token ot a
vocabulary famed and unconquerable.
“Gall”: Knox, Tory M.H.R. for Koo-
vong- (Yic.), is more plump and portly every time
the Reps. meet. Looking at him, one realises
how hopeless was the attempt of the frog in the
fable, who tried to puff itself out to the dimen-
sions of a Knox.
George M‘Nair, Willis’ chief clerk, has in
his career played many parts. He was once
manager of Sydney Tkuth when it was first
launched by Willis, Crick, Kinnane, J. D. Young,
and A. G. Taylor, the one-time Giraffe of
Mud gee.
W. R. Antill, who died at Picton (N.S.W.)
recently, was a native of the place, born *8 years
ao-o. His father, Henry Colden Antill, was a
captain in the 73rd regiment, who arrived with
Governor Macquarie in the end of the year 1809,
and he became A.D.C. to the Governor. When
Macquarie left, Capt. Antill decided upon
remaining. He got the usual Government grant,
and settled “beyond the Cowpastures,” and
named the place Picton after the general of that
name with whom he had served in the Peninsula.
With Antill came Capt. Thomas Sadlier Cleave-
land, Major of Brigade, who built Cleaveland
House, Redfern, lately the headquarters of the
Unemployed Bureau. In Cleaveland paddock, as
it was then known, was turned the first sod of the
first Australian railway in July, 1850, though the
first train on the line did not run until September,
1855.
Thomas Bent tried to act as peacemaker
on the first occasion when members of the Vic.
Assembly came to blows in the House, and suffered
the usual fate of peacemakers. Fergusson,
M.L.A., had dyed his grey beard a sweet shade of
brown during the Christmas recess of 18i9. A
few days after the Assembly met in January, 1880,
Fergusson made frequent interjections while
John MTntyre was droning a speech. One of
them brought the retort from MTntyre: “We’ll
give you a wig, old man, to match your whiskers.”
Fergusson rose in wrath, and tried to grab the
mace as a weapon of offence (the same old mace
that went astray a few years later). Being pre-
vented, he seized a ponderous book of statutes
and swiped wildly with it at MTntyre. but only
succeeded in landing the volume heavily on the
head of T. Bent, who had rushed to intervene.
Then Fergusson, with a partially-stunned Bent
still hanging on to him, dropped the book and
tried to pull MTntyre’s whiskers out. Before
more than four handfuls of beard were on the
floor Thomas received a large reinforcement, led
by the famous white waistcoat of Zox. The com-
bination dragged Fergusson away, but MTntyre’s
beard was irreparably injured. Never again did
it attain the pristine pride of the days when l.e
used to act Bailie Nicol Jar vie on old Bendigo.
MR. PETER CLOSE , a N.S.W. Land Agent.
Photo, by Falk & Co., Sydney.
Governor Le Hunte, of S.A., who advo-
cates the introduction of nigger labor into Aus-
tralia, would be better employed advocating the
introduction of grammar among Governors. Mere
are some samples of his style :
Tropical products cannot be grown to pay in any large
quantity in the Northern Territory without the introduc-
tion of cheap labor, suitable for the climate and suitable
for the industry for which they would be required.
I very much respect the love of the Australian for his
pure blood, and for his determination to keep it so.
I truly believe that he need be under no apprehension
of a polluted race, of subjecting the colored races to any
form of slavery, or to being kept out of employment by
unfair competition with them. .
I have treated this difficult question with the same
frankness that I hope will be accorded to it by those who
read it.
A NATIONAL CATASTROPHE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Commander of the St. George’s Rifles, Sydney, Senator-
LieuKenant-Colonel John Cash Neild, has been placed on
the retired list of the military forces, with permission to
retain his rank and uniform.” —Daily Paper.
Hark ! a sound of lamentation rises from this stricken
nation,
And a throb of agitation heaves and hurtles through our
soul;
While the military forces (first of all our great resources)*
Rank and file, and men and horses, have forsworn the
flowing bowl.
Half-mast high hangs every banner, in a very mournful
manner,
And the drill-hall grand pianner sounds no martial strain
of war,
There is crape on every portal—for the only and immortal
Senator-Lieutenant-Colonel John Cash Neild has left his
corps!
Yea, the Commonwealth is stricken, and its perils soon
will thicken
(Though the scoffers murmur “ Dicken ! ”), we have lost
the only man
Who could save us from invasion, on some terrible occa-
sion
In the future, when the Asian shall perfect his little plan,
And fall on us like a tower. In that bitter, bitter hour
We shall pray to every Power—but in vain—to be our
shield,
For the question they’ll propound us, to astound us, and
confound us
Will be : “ What made you sacrifice the great and only
Neild?”
That heroic scarlet figure will loom bigger yet, and bigger,
When we have to fight the nigger and the Brown Man
for our life.
’Mid the gunshots and the gashes we should see his fierce
moustaches
As we battle for the ashes of our father’s brother’s wife.
And his voice should praise and cheer us, and his feathers
should be near us,
And the enemy should fear us, as we follow where they
shine ;
But, alas ! without his leading we shall very soon be
speeding
For the centre of Australia or the Equatorial line !
Woe is us ! For one thing worse is to be added to our
curses,
We shall hear no more his verses to encourage us to fight.
And his forceful speech and laughter we shall vainly
hanker after,
Which aforetime shook the rafter of the Senate House
each night,
Yet, when exiled with the Burman, or the Japanese, or
German,
Or when dwelling with the worm and caterpillar in the
field,
We shall say—“ Ah, they disrate us from our ancient
lofty status,
But they cannot separate us from the memory of Neild ! ’
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


What turned the microbe out of home
And drove him far o’er earth to roam,
Of all his race the last!
What harries him from day to day.
And drives those colds and coughs away,
He manufactures fast ?
Ancestral spirits cry “ en masse,”
Woods’ Great Peppermint Gere, alas !*
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching', Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing-, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new' discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.O. England.*
TWO OLDSMOBILES RACE—3SOO MILES.
Two 7h.p. Oldsmobiles started from New York, May
Bth on a race for $lOOO across the American Continent,
3500 miles, to Portland, Oregon. The winner arrived at
destination June 21st, making the trip in 44 days. This
is a most wonderful record, considering the fact that the
roads were in very bad shape, due to washouts, rain, mud,
sand and mountains. The machine traversed the entire
distance under its own power, except where the drivers
had to pull it out of mud holes by hand. The Oldsmobile
enjoys the distinction of being the only light car that has
crossed America going from East to West.*
The State Excellencies.
So far, despite all the demand for a simplification
of the public machinery of this over-governed
country, nothing at all has been done. Certain
States have reduced the number of their legis-
lators, but that isn’t a simplification, though it
may be something of an economy. The machine
remains just the same. There are still the 14
Houses of Parliament, the seven imported Gover-
nors, the seven third parties, seven Speakers,
seven Presidents of the Upper House, 14 sets of
officials, seven Addressek-in-Reply, and all the
rest. The natural tendency, in the way of throw-
ing some of the cumbrous machinery overboard,
was to begin by the abolition of the six full-blown
State Governors, and the adoption of the simple
Canadian system whereby the imported Gover-
nor-General nominates a cheap local deputy
in each Province to serve all purely Pro-
vincial purposes. The Australian States spend
so much of their time, in between Governors, with
a mere local deputy, and get on so well under him,
that it seems reasonable to suppose they could get
on well enough with him all the time, and the
experience of Canada endorses the idea. But
every time a proposal is made in that direction
some heavy old person, like Mr. Hugh Nelson
of Queensland or Mr. Thomas Bent of Victoria,
suys that “it is necessary to maintain the connec-
tion with the British Crown, ” or some heavy old
remark like that, and the proposed reform fails to
the earth like a burst egg. Presumably the
remark is made from sheer force of habit, for it
has in it nowadays no sense or meaning whatever.
The mere State Governor, though he may be
imported from England, no longer maintains
any connection whatever with the British Crown.
He isn’t even allowed to speak to the British
Crown, which only recognises the Governor-
General. If the State Governor even wants to
inform the British Crown that he is alive he has
to do it through the Governor-General, and so far
from the humble State Ex. maintaining a connec-
tion with the British Crown, the Crown has
deliberately severed all connection. It refuses to
know of his existence save at second-hand. In
fact, there appears to be every reason to believe
that the British Crown regards the finding and
supplying of State Governors as a bore and a
nuisance. No man of ability and ambition wants
the little sawn-off sinecure unless lie is driven
to take it by absolute penury. There never
was much work attached to the pos.tion
of State Governor, even in ante-Eederation
days ; now there is so little that to profess that
the billet is sufficient employment for a grown
man has become impossible. Nobody who is im-
portant enough for the British Government to
seriously desire either to placate him or to get rid
of him really wants a State Governorship ; and the
constant job of hunting up six amiable and rea-
sonably presentable old has-beens who don’t drink,
to fill six posts in which there isn’t even the
dignity of sending a post-card directly to the
British Government, is a wearing business. But
the British Government is a courteous institution,
and it doesn’t like to tell old gentlemen like
Hugh Nulson, who babble about maintaining the
connection with the British Crown what, in all
probability it really thinks of them— viz., that
they are buzzing and embarrassing fogies.
The Alien.
“L.E.” speaks some words of wisdom :
Australia is the country of the alen. He is a curse
like mice and bishops ; hut he is mighty and prevails, and
Fat is his prophet. In proportion to population this
young country, with its pinny of “natural resources”
blowing vaguely in the breeze, owes more, and is more
alien, than any other portion of the map. And the alien
and the public debt are alike a national catastrophe.
This is the fault of the native, for the native insists on
being the exception. He is very unpatriotic, and allows
the alien to practise the three-card trick without a license
and pile up much ill-gotten gold. Thus it happens the
alien sprawls ali over Government House, Parliament,
the press, the pulpit, the pawn shop, the theatre, the
p.cture gallery, the bank, and the sock and sardine
stores ; and he gracefully dangles three balls on his watch
chain. But the native keeps on hacking stiff-uns at the
alien’s advice, instead of talking to him quietly with a
circular saw.
The alien is as subtle as the Serpent, and comes in
divers disguises. There is the Asiatic Alien. Poo Wing
grows Cabbages, boils shirts, gums together cheap side-
hoards, and spends mighty little in this country, though
he sends away much to China. A laundry man, Lo Sam,
with a hag of socks and stale cuffs over his back, cheer-
fully announces he has had three trips in four years
to the Flowery Land. The celestial has an exclu-
sively commercial interest in this part of the globule.
Sam’s wife and his Joss and his ancestral spirits
happen somewhere along the Pi-lli-Ho. Sam doesn’t care
for this country, and we don’t care for him. He wouldn’t
fight for Australia in time of need ; he would rather spit
blue dragons and fireworks at us. Then Dam Chambuddy
Ram, Gunga Singh, Abdul Mahmud, and varied Hindu,
Cingalese, Arab, Turkish, Assyrian and other racial relics
of antiquity—this little lot is perhaps worse. Ling Poo
at least works ; Ram only cheats, and he lias a pretty
method of exploiting this guileless land. He first visits
tiie Temples of his Cods—the Flinders-lane emporiums
o.vned by the great and good Fat —gets a bag of soft
goods, scarfs, ribbons, scented soap, nick-nacks, and
other items that nobody wants, and then travels
oer and infects the landscape on behalf of
his high priest, Fat and Co. Part of him
is said to form a bulwark of the Hempire, but he isn’t a
bulwark here—only a vagrant and a stench.
The various brands of European alien resolve themselves
i .to two ; those that become native and those that remain
a ien. The physically, mentally, or morally unfit must be
c-sentially alien in a country that needs pure and vigorous
blood to push it along, so General Booth’s selection of
the scum of degenerate Europe must be kept back with
great enthusiasm. We find the decadent Greek of the
Islands in fried fish and oyster saloons. He doesn’t work,
and doesn’t give a stale ’couta for the Common-
wealth. "We don’t seem to have much use for him.
The town Dago, who sells flowers and ice-cream, or
plays the harp and violin, is not violently useful ;
but the Dago in the country —in the vineyards
and orchards especially—usually sticks and becomes a
true Australian, and would defend his new country, and
his vineyard, and his fowl-run, and his bee-farm, as an old
Roman ought to do. The Scandinavians, Danes and Ger-
mans also stick, and they or their families become useful,
hard-grafting Australian natives. The Hebrew is hard to
classify. He seems to be alien everywhere. He gives us
tickets on crook horses and watches and old clothes, and,
though his hard brilliancy would be useful, it seems diffi-
cult for him to become anything else except Hebrew.
Then we have the Brixton alien, who doesn’t seem
capable of driving out of his alleged intellect the notion
that Australia is nothing' more than a large, scattered,
unfinished replica of Fogland. He brings his kids up to
the old faith, but they mostly depart from it and become
good Australians, therefore the final result is good. The
Scot and Irishman are more radical, but they are often
cursed with a weird, unwholesome sentiment that the
country they abandoned is immensely superior to the
country that adopted them; and with distressing fre-
quency they burst into “ The Blue Bells of Scotland ” and
“TheWearin’ o’ the Green,” and bark their patriotism
up the wrong tree. Still, in essentials they pan out all
right.
But the worst of aliens is the Australian alien. There
is nothing more fearsome than the Australian youth, who
has never been out of Australia, but who reckons his
country is no blanky good, spits against a fence, does
nothing, and cares for nothing under tiie sun. And the
swell youth, who boasts he patronises only imported
goods, Scotch tweeds, Yankee boots, Chinese pyjamas—
who drinks French wines and English ale and smokes Nile
weed—he, too, makes life very wearisome.
APROMISE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
*HE hours
§ are loaning,
M good - night,
good-night.
I promised Sue to
be home by nine ;
A sacred promise,
though arn her
wine
Sparkled and laugh-
ed in the crystal
bright.
But the hours fly
by with an eerie
flight
When friends grow
mellow and glasses
clink,
And I venture not
to the tempting
brink
When the hours are
waning good-
night, good-night.
No, not another;
the hop and vine
May wilt and,
wither like western
grass ;
Oh, well, if I
must, in a final
glass,
I will drink a toast
to a girl divine —
I will drink a toast
to a wife of
mine,
A queen, enthroned
in the hearts of
men!
Eh, what’s that
striking! It can't
be ten.
For I promised Sue
to be home by
nine.
Pshaw ! Sue is tucked in the sheets, I guess,
And Toiozer guards at my outer gate.
With a sleepless eye doth the old dog wait,
Gruel and callous and pitiless.
Then what of a night the more or less !
Come, fill top the glasses from heel to brim,
Till daylight nears and the stars grow dim,
And the new day wakes from its drowsiness.
For Lives are merry while hearts are true,
Thouyh the sun may wink through her window-pane,
And she'll say to me, “ You, are drunk again,"
With a languid tear in her eyes of blue ;
But I’ll stroke her hair of a flaxen hue,
And I’ll kiss her lips of rose-bud red, -
Then harness and all I’ll flop to bed,
A nd dircam of the promise I made to Sue.
VV.A.
J. O. B.
South Africa’s Colored Curse.
R. L. OurH watte from London :
A considerable advantage is likely to accrue to Australia
out of the agitation against the introduction of Chinese
into the Transvaal, as it has had the effect of revealing
to the people the justification for the anti-Asiatic policy.
The people of England are learning their business as
regards Chinese labor, but the belief still remains that
the Indian coolie, as a British subject, should have free
admittance into any colon}'. Later on the Transvaal is
destined to provide Great Britain with a painful lesson in
that respect. The greed and shortsightedness of the 3000
landowners who divide Natal amongst themselves have
turned that colony into an Asiatic warren. To-day the
Indians outnumber the whites. They have driven almost
every white trader out of the up-country townships, and
are rapidly acquiring the ascendancy in Maritzburg and
Durban. 'Latter town they now own.
Our colored fellow subjects are rapidly ousting the
white traders in the Transvaal as they have done in
Natal. A decision of the Supreme Court has nullified
certain restrictions on trade which the Government at
first enforced. Mass meetings of protest have been held
by the whites in the country townships doomed to be
submerged by the coolie invasion ; and a “ national con-
vention ” On the question has demanded restrictive legis-
lation. But the Colonial Office stands firm and is uphold-
ing “the rights of our fellow subjects”, and there is
serious trouble ahead.
The struggle that is impending will not be between
Dutch and British. As brethren in a common affliction,
the Trades Unions of the Transvaal and the British
Responsible Government party have united with Het
Volk, the great Dutch political organisation, for a
common purpose—to wrest the Transvaal out of the
hands of the Randlords and the Colonial Office dominated
by them. Botha is to-day the virtual leader of the
Transvaal Labor party, and the only hope for freedom
rests in the Dutch. Out of the Chinese Labor system
revolutionary conditions are certain sooner or later to
arise.
England’s eyes are being opened to this, and there is
every evidence of a great increase of sympathy for the
“White Australia” policy. I have noted a remarkable
change recently. To gain a full measure of sympathy
from the British public it is necessary to put the matter
in its broad aspect, the preservation of race purity and
the impossibility of maintaining democratic institutions
when one section of the community is denied’ equal
rights with all others, as must occui if a colored race is
introduced into a land. To that argument now the
British democracy is responsive.
W hat you see on Australia’s back-door step :
When you strike Port Darwin you might think you had
struck Singapore. Cavanagh-street—the main street—is
inhabited solely by Chows, bar one white man, a saddler.
No restriction here. The “ shops ” are kept open all day
on Sunday and half the night. Fantan is played on the
sidewalk. Liquor is sold by the bottle in nearly every
hovel. Young gins can be seen any time in filthy opium
dens. A still is supposed to be working amongst all this
filth and degradation ; anyway, a “ squareface ” is sold to
the blacks and Malays for 2s. A paddock is given up to
the blacks, where they openly prostitute tlieir lubras,
and hold midnight orgies. A poor place this for an Aus-
tralian. The white population give all the work to Chows.
At the cable station there are two Mongolian engineers.
A butcher has a Chow delivering, and others slaughter-
ing. The baker employs Celestials to knead his dough.
All servants are heathens. Wharf-lumping is done by
half-dressed coolies. Tailors, shoemakers, watchmakers,
dressmakers, washermen—all hail from the Land of the
Dragon. Chows work on the road, do council work, are
clerks for white men, and the Territory Times has a Chow
comp. Not a job a white man can get; and God help the
poor devil who is stranded !
The jetty is a splendid illustration of what the white
man can do in the tropics. It cost £lO,OOO, and equals
anything in the Commonwealth. The harbor is good,
hut luggers, manned by Malays, lie upon its waters.
Chinese junks and sampans carry passengers to the tin-
fields. A pearling schooner is manned by Malays. Fish-
ing boats are manned by Chows. On the beach, a blacks’
camp is converted into a bagnio for the scum of Asia.
Here the crews congregate at night with the black-
fellow’s lubra. No one interferes.
Colored-labor advocates should look at Darwin, and see
what the Yellow Curse does for a country. How does this
alien business benefit Australia ? The money all goes to
China. Even the steamers are owned there.
The Growth of British Sense.
What is the “selfish disloyalty of Australia” to-
day is the “enlightened British statesmanship”
of to-morrow. For some years now—with special
insistence since the “ White Ocean clause” of the
Postal Act came up for discussion— The Bulle-
tin has claimed that, as a matter of plain horse-
sense, Australian coastal shipping should be
reserved for Australian sailors, and the Austral-
Britisli mail lines for white British sailors. The
economic and defence advantages of this policy
were sufficiently visible. But the Tory press saw
nothing but disloyalty to the Empire’s nigger,
and refused to countenance any more tangible
encouragement to the boy of the bull-dog breed
than a music-hall song. And now it is cabled -
Mr. Joseph Chamberlain, in a letter to the press, says
that it is foolish, and inimical to the national interests,
to encourage the officering of British ships by foreigners.
The whole subject of the manning of the mercantile
marine, he declares, demands re-consideration.
In a year or two, probably, the White Ocean clause
of the Australian Postal Act will be an integral
part of British naval policy. Britain begins
to realise that to “think imperially” one must
think a little about the preservation of the white
Anglo-Saxon race which made the Empire, and
which supports the Empire, and the decay of
which means the end of the Empire.
■ —♦
“Roma” writes: —
Re the population question. The people in this part of
South Gippsland (near Western Port Bay) have nothing
to blame themselves for. They have done their duty to
their country. Seven farmers within a radius of 3£ miles
have an average of 12 children each ; the smallest family
numbers nine. As in the South of Ireland, a large family
is looked upon as an asset. As soon as the youngsters
are able to lisp they are taught to feed calves, pigs, and
fowls, and a little later on they rise at 4 or 5 a.m. to take
part in the milking. But in spite of hard work, wrestling
with scrub and timber, &c., the farmers have been unable
to keep" their children on the land. Nearly all the daughters
have been forced to go to Melbourne as servants, and
the sons have gone elsewhere to more successful farmers
as laborers. Something must be wrong with the land or
the laws of a country when a man, after slaving for years
early and lafe, cannot keep his sons and daughters to
help him when they reach the ages of 14 or 15. There are
three or four farms here untenanted ; they cost years of
hard labor to clear, and now they are nearly overgrown
with scrub again. Yet it is splendid potato and onion
country, to say nothing of its excellence for fruit-growing.
Evidently something is wrong, but nevertheless the facts
remain.
The Bulletin has a theory as to some of the
things that are wrong. If the country had more
Protection and a more definite and vigorous sys-
tem of encouraging local industries, there might
be a larger manufacturing population for the far-
mer to sell his produce to, consequently a better
demand and better prices. Next, if the railways
didn’t all converge on Melbourne, and every pos-
sible effort were made to build up other ports and
other manufacturing centres, some of that extra
manufacturing population might be located in
South Gippsland. Then, with more ratepayers,
there would be the means to make more and better
roads, so that the farmer could get his produce to
the next town more cheaply, and when he could
sell it direct to the manufacturing population in
the next town, instead of having to send it to
Melbourne, and perhaps from there to England,
he would save railway freights, and sea freights,
and commissions and swindles. In short, the
essentials are more Protection, more manufacturing
population, a better diffusion of the manufacturing
population, and a heavy graduated land-tax which
will break up big estates where there is good land,
and make the good land available to the farmer at
a reasonable figure.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name ami
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ‘will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
W.E.W. : “ Happiness” is rather heavy moral-
ising. No moralising that weighs over 561 b. has any
chance.... Aballona : Well-meant but ordinary Alf :
“ Breeze that Stirs the Bracken ” is good in places only
and the comparison between town and city has been
battled out already by bards of great calibre Neula :
“ Afterwards ” threatens to be sublime and becomes only
grotesque M.M.S.: “Cloudy Spring” hardly good
enough. Have two or three better spring poems already
on hand....J.S. : When the old man starts musing in
verse to the old horse or the old dog the result is seldom
satisfactory.... Maxim : A girl with toothache isn’t a good
subject for verse. Nor would a girl with a broken
leg be much of a topic. “ Mournful Bards ” is good
subject indifferently handled... .J.A.L. :No verse-skill...
L.S.B. : An unskilful hand L.F. : Mere truism to
those who know, and mere indecency to those who don’t.
Gil Roden : Rather raw and unfinished Paul
O. : “Jim B.” is unsatisfactorily placed between fact
and fiction. As regards pars, get rid of the notion that
the more you circumlocute the funnier you are... .Tyro :
A promising first attempt... ,J. De’.aney : Humorous but
fallacious. Young children are practically savages ; and,
being consequently inaccessible to moral considerations,
must be coerced into ways which afterwards become
habitual.... Darby : You have plenty of self-confidence,
but little to justify it.... Sam. 1). : Painfully inconsecu-
tive. .. .T.W.H. : Tim Bulletin has .b alt with the subject
frequently.... W. P. : “Uncle’s Eye” shows decided pro-
mise. .. .Wogger : Yes, with more experience. Item sent
has good material inadequately treated... .L.C.O’D. :So
Well-worn a theme needs stronger treatment... .W.N. :
Preceding remark applies also to jim-jam yarns V.B. :
Thanks. Always pleased to have such items... .Rory F. :
Lacks life and lightness.... W. A.T. : The more important
the personality, the closer should be the characterisation.
.. .D.J.M.: “ Token,” “ Woolslted Parson,”and “ Deserted
Claim” rather below par. Also have doubts about
“Bush Track.” Other accepted... Jingler: Sorry, but
it is so well-known that lying on damp grass in the spring is
unhealthy that the fact is hardly worth mentioning....
Mac. : “ I Ask But Little ” isn’t a big enough idea. Only
a reflection, in four verses, on the beastly virtue of con-
tentment... .G.N. : Duly note that you followed the bee
two miles to its hole in a big tree, and when you cut down
the tree it was the only bee there and had just started
housekeeping... .Sweater : A daily Hansard wouldn’t
meet the case. The public is interested in a good deal
else than Parliamentary news.... A.C.R. : Obituary notice
of a man “ who was 20 years a rate collector and a leading
light among friendly societies” disrespectfully declined.. .
A. Stark : Radium is extracted from pit< ablende (it is
also found in other ores). There is but .in infinitesimal
portion of this very precious element even in that ore,
and the process of extraction is very expensive... .N. 5.0.:
Your verse marked N.S.F. —not sufficient fun....C.S. :
You open—
When I see the Southern Cross arise
Lazily lighting the summer skies.
That is mere word-stringing, and doesn’t mean anything.
Did you ever see the S.C. “ rise,” and \vhy should it
“lazily light?”... .Alf B. : Only scores two. The'“ last
card’’count is not allowed under the circumstances....
J. B. L). : Would have printed your “ poem ” for the reason
that the good little boy with the golden locks doesn’t fall
in the sea and get drowned —as was foreshadowed at
first; but, excepting that surprise, it was too du11....
Frank A.: Idea doesn’t appeal to us... .Meo: “Flamma
Amoris” is a neat little bit of love verse, but gallons of
such things come to hand D.W. : The verses probably
hadn’t any meaning. That’s the beauty of them. You
furnish your meaning and take your choice... .0.C.H.:
Same subject so often dealt with before... .S.T.S. : No,
stick to “ Australia.” You can’t have too much of a
good word... .J.K. : Mathematical yarn smells of mouldy
chestnuts Nicholas: Soiry you miss the mark
C. A.D.: Hughes, M.H.R., proposed a citizen defence
force in a series of amendments when the Defence Act was
before Parliament. Tne amendments were not carried, but
the credit for bringing the idea forward in Parliament is his.
... .N. 5.0.: Spirited, but ill-finished.. .Lokalu: Not enough
made of the picturesque setting Mac. : Funny in de-
tail, but has no proper coherence.... W. Neal: Reads like
truth, but lacks vital interest... .T.P.D. : Too turgid and
bombastic... .Garrick B. : Needlessly circuitous and rhe-
torical. Straight hits are the most effective .. .W.McR. :
Too shapeless and incoherent... .Liz : Rather good, but
much too long for Bulletin H.G. : “ Sandy ” almost
caught on. Get rid of your conventional phrasing, and
you will do good work.... Hofky (or something like that) :
Painful scribble... .Frenchy: Your shearing verse is
mostly a catalogue of names, like some of Homer’s lists of
chiefs, and Tiie Bulletin hasn’t space for that sort of
thing.. ..A.J.J.: You have a literary career ahead of you—
as a writer of songs for the music ha 11... .General: Hardly
suitable... .Resurgam : Too long-winded. Please arise
to a quicker tune..,.l.S. : Will look into the matter of
that co Nix : Not enough in them... .Mac. F. : That
opinion wasn’t given editorially. “ The Pirates of Penz-
ance ” is certainly more humorous than, say, “The Yeoman
of the Guard.”... .Pro Bono Publico: Good old Bono!
Haven’t met you for years in this column. How are you?
And how is little “Fiat Justitia,” and “Paterfamilias,”
and the rest of your family ? Good-bye. (By the way,
your plea to abolish payment of members came to the
wrong shop. We’d pay members more—and see that they
earned the money.) Unsuitable: J.P.W., C.S.K.,
J. 1.0., Bend.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.T.Q.: Hopeless... .Berry : The boss bad sketch of
the century... ,T.P.M‘G.: If you consider the pictures
that appear in The Bulletin you may begin to realise
why yours don’t appear.... Jep :If we owned a wife with
a leer like that we should divorce her, t 00.... .F. James :
Figures are like no human being on this earth....
P. : “ Misinformed ”is too labored a joke... .Dick R. :
Picture not extra good, and no joke, gag, excuse, explana-
tion, name or address on back.... Robert M. :“A Fair
Cow” and “Son Shine” quite unsuitable. No name or
address on back of sketches... .J.P.: Drawing good
enough, but it isn’t caricature—only two men making a
remark (which might be any remark) to each other....
H.B.L. : The germ of an idea, but not a large, full-grown
idea M.O’D. : Drawing not humorous. Joke not
humorous either.. . .E.K. Something Unintelligible (Ing-
ham) : Cow joke used in pane of pictur s. Would
have sent payment, but nobody could decipher name.
, ...W.J.O. : Further consideration knocked the idea
out... .P.K.: Sorry, but subject anticipated last week.


•Honey n«rJ gently A'
*s better of-f JV '
in dlfe |>ocKds of-ttfe f^/
N
11/Con f€
mmSmm
cWwlfc ——
y
lJjen, looK f)|ea,s^ht!
yer leAVe
in a. b o «Xet'j’ ■ If || 'Always
> wfjen you w V>t if ,
Vic - Q<*h ' A ll '*9«se ere- p
==_ in % £
The Conser^e^ 1 £Lf e *o M U
H*" **• S T'
if if COuW Q|d (7 W „V "1 >' f
I * t T => ? *’
" H*llo! drinK AsA'n
- ! !
'lll
A PiAbrAn
dilute led lb a
lively Sirups*l*
J betWeri njernbewj
|K©n ‘Hie cburcVj
jjj'kMefs'f'o'Hjor
X i 7
■^Cod
f^W
fa drevo of XYoMvzhy"]
"o»ic would Haye expected Stacie Judg*)enfe
-fr njevt with A respectful recognition At~
Ibe bAnds /of High C°««+• n /\ts/i
va / i .
" Dje Me lb Gm>l Ho4f>i'tA.l
to be j
t> gef drmnKs
Af+er & S|>nea
"Aje "
-%cWm
Agriculture afliie'/ffr 7 eb-r©j :
eve© in Sound endurn^
b«>d‘ c s' A^°s*
I?rJc
/ Vi
bridle
f© \|Onte<l C*T_
VICTORIAN VIEWS.


% The Tantanoola tiger has picked «P a |
mate. Two have lately Been seen by a |
sawwiiPi
Philip Fysh says that the legislation
which he, as'a Minister, advocated and’
helped to originate, has been “ most';
detrimental." He also says he never
believed in it, but only advocated it.tor ,
the sake of office as he puts it, through ’
“loyalty to his colleagues."
P." Pysh : “ I ask hon. members just to .
smell this Pysh.”'
_ ____ ‘ 111
| Are we on the eve of a tlger-pest?!
f Who says tinned tiger f A
Baron Kaneko says that
if Japan has lost the ex-
pected indemnity It has at
least gained a seat In the
Council of Nations. .
; problem before tlte Lairds Commission :
| Where did this money go to ?
cT /
mii-'NKW RABBIT PROBLEM.'
Now that the rabbits in Australia irom a 1
pest have become a source of national wealth.
there is a movement on foot to improve the breed. Shall we have stud
.-abhif sales ?
THE PASSING SHOW.


What is it banished Coughs and Colds
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure !
Equally good for young and old—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ;
Better than Plasters, Drugs, or Pills,
Killing the germs of a thousand ills,
Saving a fortune in doctors’ bills—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure !*
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
m
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
&
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHiMiR Y
Wf. would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
.9
Genuine Swiss Milk
Chocolate.
VVRITb to-day for free sample,
and particulars of our
GREAT PRIZE
COMPETITION.
CAILLER’S, Mutual Life Building,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
“ Dave H.R.” : “ Timbarra,” with a help-
less air, flops aimlessly round again, and spreads
froth and malice about in a promiscuous fashion.
He thinks he sees an inconsistency—just like the
Foreigngraph thinking it sees a danger in N.S. W.
building itself some locomotives. “ Timbarra s>’
spasm is caused this time by his discovering (fou r
months after it was printed) a par. of mine wherein
I mention the decease of an emu. There is no
space to quote. Let all who wi ;h turn to that
par (B. 20/4/’O5). We kill elephants for ivory, and
oysters for pearls,'and emus for skins. The man
I mentioned wanted a skin, and my par. stated
that he fired at the head—which would have been
a merciful death, better than bashing against hard
substances ! When the shot miscarried and only
wounded, was it not the more merciful way to
follow the bird and dispatch it ? Evidently “ Tim-
barra ” is the kind of person who goes about in
naked simplicity, so that the sheep should not be
robbed of its clothing, and lives on atmosphere
carefully strained to avoid swallowing mos-
quitoes, and gnats, and horse-flies, and tuatara
lizards, and other circumstances ; and occasionally,
when it gets monotonous, rises and seizes a few
jackasses -and men bigger than himself, and whirls
them round the universe, banging them against
the stars with much fervor and eorybantic
enthusiasm.
“Roma” : The struggle for existence in
parts of South Gippsland (Vic.) is astounding.
As an instance of the hard work and small returns,
the following will give some idea : —A man bought
a farm for £O5O, which money he had saved by
quarrying. His wife selected land adjoining the
farm. He has rung timber, cleared, burnt, fenced,
grown feed for cows, milked, separated cream, and
carted produce to station, some miles away, over
rough, unformed roads. All this work has been
done with no other assistance than that rendered
by his wife and two daughters—the daughters
aged respectively 14 and 15. He bought the farm
seven years ago, and during those years he has not
l>een able to bank one penny. As money came in
it had to go towards improvements, seed, and
necessary machinery. He proudly shows his Sun-
day suit, which has done good service for 15 years,
and is likely to last his lifetime. Neither himself
nor his family have had a holiday in seven
years, and not one penny has been carelessly spent.
Now an accident has rendered him unable to work,
and he is offered £750 for everything. Going on
the land is a great game in South Gippsland, and
yet, while the rich Western District is locked up
in big estates, and land can only be leased on
almost impossible terms, there is practically no
other place for the new Vic. farmer to go to.
* * * *
“ Manuka,” from Maoriland :
Whilst ruminating on a log one Sunday, a sportsman
approached me carrying a she pheasant and much ammu-
nition. By his manner of speech I soon concluded he
was fresh from England, and he appeared surprised when
I told him the hen bird was protected in Maoriland.
Whilst he was “ hawing ” to me, some 20 wild duck flew
towards u». Up went his gun, and I felt certain every
quacker would be killed and myself mutilated by the
falling feathers. As if by second thought, however, he
gazed inquiringly at me—still keeping his gun pointed at
the celestial firmament —and then Englished : “Is the —
haw—female bird—haw—protected ? ” By tiie time I had
looked up the Act the ducks were gone.
“ I'alder ’ : I know as much about dingoes
as most people, having reared them frequently
from pups. For color, the pure dingo may run to
any shade, but he should be thick and low-set,
yellow with blackish muzzle, black hairs along
back, white tip to tail, all paws white, and white
blaze on chest. The only place I know of where
the pure sort can now be found is at the heads of
the Richmond and Tweed in N.S.W., right under
the New England range. One test of purity is
that the unmixed article can’t bark —can only
howl. I have never known one to bark, however
much kept with my tame dogs. I cross them
with cattle-dogs for “heelers.”
* * * *
“ Nulla ” :
Re eradicating prickly-pear by electricity (B. 24/8/’O5).
The moisture in the pear would, no doubt, offer such
resistance to the flow of an electric current as to generate
heat, and so destroy the plant ; but I’m very doubtful as
to whether the process would pay. Keeping railroads
free of weeds, which by binding the ballast tend to preju-
dicially affect the resiliency and durability of the perma-
nent way, is a heavy iteiii in railway expenditure, and
some years ago an American co. made exhaustive —and,
’twas claimed, successful—experiments with electricity as
a means of coping with the trouble. Method was to fix
on the engine bundles of heavily-charged wires, which,
sweeping the track like a broom, dealt out sudden death
to all plant life encountered. But the waste of current
was enormous, and I believe that the cost rendered the
idea useless.
* * * «
“Wheeler”: Re par (24/8/’O5) on Aus-
tralian wood for spokes. For a light buggy wheel
blue-gum would not last as long as it took to put
it in. The tenon that goes into the rim snaps off
like a carrot the first bump it gets. Blue-gum has
not the fibre in it that hickory has when they are
both well seasoned. For a heavy wheel, such as a
wool waggon, I think Australian wood is the best
in the world. Ironbark spokes, red-gum felloes,
and grey box hub—l have seen wheels 40 years
old running yet, made of these timbers. But that
wood is too brittle for a light wheel for fast
travelling, so they use hickory because it is
tougher. As regards oak, I never saw it made
into a spoke in this country, and I have worked
from one end of Australia to the other.
* * * *
“ C.X.G.” : Re intelligence of camels. On
Mount Lyndhurst Station (3. A.) we had a young
camel calf, “Dick,” which was reared as a pet
There were a lot of young niggers on the station,
and they used to take a great joy in teasing the
calf in every way imaginable—such as throwing
boomerangs at him, pricking him with needles,
etc. Dick was eventually drafted to a station
further north, and returned to Lyndhurst some
years later a full-grown bull. His first perform-
ance on seeing the niggers was to do a corroboree
all over them. When he had finished you could
see niggers flying wherever you liked to look. He
repeated the performance once or twice later on,
and we had to shift him away again or go without
black labor. As shearing was approaching we
shifted him; but I heard later that he would
always chase a blackfellow on sight, although a
very kind-natured beast with whites.
QUARTS.
JAKE: “Dick tells me you're makin’ your pile with a quartz mill, Tom.”
TOM : “ Yes. I’m running a brewery.”
“Itan”: Can any Bulletin scribe give
the reason why citrus trees, chance-grown, in
scrubs do not contract scale pests, even in country
where orchards of cultivated trees are black ?
(But is it so ?—Ed. B.)
“ AND SOME HAVE GREATNESS THRUST UPON THEM."
“ S.H.” : I know of a liberal reward being
offered the blacks to bring live eels from eastern
waters for introduction to a western stream. They
point blank refused, and the only explanation
offered was “No good that pfella.” The distance
to be travelled was only three miles, and my in-
formant, who offered the reward, attributed the
attitude of our colored brother to superstition.
* * * *
“A. Zel.” : About ten years ago, living
under the same roof with a wood-cutter near
Inglewood (Vic.), and closely observing this man’s
phenomenal natural powers, 1 came to the con-
elusion that the word
‘‘ ventriloquist” should
he dropped for “mi-
mic.” I have seen
this wood-cutter send
a new mate off the
same log into the
scrub looking for an
imaginary intruder,
abusive and pro-
fanely uncompliment-
ary. Partners at a
game of euchre in the
little roadside, pub.
would leave their cards
in response to a call
from the bar “ to come
and have a beer.” This
was always a success-
ful lure, but failed to
secure popularity for
the perpetrator. Drov-
ers, accompanied by
their dogs, were cer-
tain victims. The man
of stock, his canine
adherent crouching at
his feet, would be
challenged to a wager
for drinks that his dog
would go outside and
bark when there was
no one there to call it.
A drover is touchy on
his dog’s merits, and
the bet was nearly
always made. Then
from afar the faint
hoarse yelp of a fox
would steal in, bring-
ing tin-drover's dog to
its feet and out into
the night barking;
while the house dog
would simply open its
sleepy eyes with a re-
proachful look at the
deceiver, as much as
to say, “At it again,
are you ? ” To it, and
to the persons in the
know the sound did
not appear to come
from outside, but from its true source. A new
dog brought to the house would be taken in a
dozen times or more, but soon it came to know,
and thereafter no deception—either by word,
whistle, yelp, or squeal —was possible.
“ C.X.Gr.” says it is a true bill:—
Re niggers’ insensibility to pain. Some years ago a
drover from Queensland, after delivering his cattle at
Hergott Springs, went on to Adelaide and took his black-
boy with him. The black bad a good time in Adelaide,
and to show his gratitude, or for some other reason, killed
his boss on the way back, and placed him in a waterhole.
Suspicion was aroused by the nigger appearing alone at
Birds ville. The police investigated, and finally came up
with the nigger at Cadelgo station. After securing his
man, the constable chained him up overnight to a heavy
log. In the morning the nig. was to all appearance dead.
Constable and station manager tried, without avail, to
restore life; but no sign of life did that nigger give,
although prodded pretty freely. Later an old gin
strolled up and demanded the body for burial in the sand-
hills adjacent. The trooper was not satisfied that his
man was dead ; so he got a six-inch hat-pin, and poked it
into the nigger’s leg. Still, never a muscle did that
aborigine move. “ He’s dead all right,” said the manager.
“ Well,” said Bannigan, the trooper, “ to Hergott he goes
all the same, and I don’t care if he decomposes on the
journey.” Then the dead nigger, awaking from his trance
or whatever it was, sat up and spoke : “ You bin give it
my plurry breakfast.”
* * * *
“J.W.”: The vagaries of N.S.W.’s
Western flood-water drains commonly called
rivers—are very funny. During the ’93 flood—
only 2ft. less than that of ’90 —I travelled from
Brewarrina to Walgett per river “ puffing billy.”
Ihe monotony of water and gum trees, the slow
progress, together with the “talking” of the
exhaust pipe, got on our nerves, and made welcome
the change when we lost our way in the bush. It
was the second night when we found ourselves
blocked by trees ; we had in mistake gone up a
“ billabong,” and were benighted on the plains.
After backing and filling a considerable time we
got back to the river. On arrival at Dangar
Bridge, near Walgett, the water was too high to
go under, too low to go over, so we went round—
over paddocks, among stumps and logs, a black-
boy acting as pilot. After sundry incidents we
managed to scrape back to the river, and in a
couple of hours reached Walgett. In returning
we bumped round the bridge again, and three
times during the downward journey the cross-
current ran so strong that it jammed us against
the gum trees, and we had to fasten a warp on
the opposite bank to get a fair start. It was the
first time I ever knew water run across a river
instead of down.
* * * *
“ Yarrab ” : The coast black, of whom
I’ve had a fair personal experience, is a most re-
ceptive individual, capable of quick study and
mastery of the mathematics, and endowed with a
pronounced gift for music ; but a highly developed
animalism invariably causes him or her to revert
to the wild state. Several of the Hunter River
tribe were taken in hand when piccaninnies, and
astounded the old hands by their capacity for
learning. The Mantons, an old Hunter River
family of long standing and fine reputation,
obtained a girl-piccaninny, aged two years, from
her parents, and gave her an academy training.
She was taken to England before she reached the
age of 10, and there spent a couple of years pur-
suing her studies. For sometime after her return
she remained with the Mantons, and was quite
a revelation to local people, who marvelled at the
dusky maiden’s erudition. She spoke French
well, was versed in English literature and history,
and was an adept at music. Ere she was 20 I saw
her, with a piccaninny of her own, living with the
blacks at Salamander Bay, Port Stephens, where
she was wasting her knowledge of history in the
pursuit of ’possum, and subsequently I saw her
with a tribe on the Karnah River. She was quite
wild, and had no yearning for further intellectual
research.
A BALLAD OF BEELZEBUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Give the Devil his due.”— Old English m axim.
To Corelli and Co.
Many titles I owe,
But I’m commonly known as the Devil !
And I get all the blame
Of the sin and the shame
Of the whirligig, riot and revel !
When you worship a Being far higher than I,
Who is Lord of the earth and the sea and the sky,
1 am lost in amazement in wondering why
You ascribe all your ills to the Devil!
You are grossly unfair to the Devil !
And your conduct is wholly uncivil !
’Tis a world full of woe—
But who fashioned it so ?
How the deuce is it due to the Devil ?
In a chapel or church
It is useless to search
For a preacher whose judgment is level 1
Though Omnipotence still
May do just as It will,
Your misfortunes are caused by the Devil !
The Omnipotent Ruler is never to blame
E r the sorrow and grief, and the sin and the shame !
He could change it at once ; but it goes on the same,
And you sa} r it is due to the Devil !
This is certainly rough on the Devil !
And your brains must be built on a bevel !
If no power I have got
To enliven your lot,
How the deuce is it due to the Devil ?
Do I lead you astray,
As your clergymen say
In their regular habit of drivel ?
Am I really the cause
Of ridiculous laws,
Which have been so prolific of evil ?
You have pra se for a Being far out of your ken !
You have prayers for the King and his Consort, and then
You will pray for “ All Sorts and Conditions of Men ” ;
But the devil a word for the Devil !
You have only one rhyme for the Devil!
One rhyme that’s correct —and that’s “ evil ” !
Though I can’t make you good—
Even s’posing I would,
You ascribe all your sin to the Devil!
Now, the fact of it is,
I’m a scapegoat in this,
And a very unfortunate Devil !
And I feel I could swear
And could tear at my hair
Till my ebony curls I dishevel!
You are all built alike, from the Smith to the Guelph,
In greedily grasping for power and for pelf,
And your doctrine is always : “ Each man for himself,
And the hindmost can go to the Devil ! ”
’Tis the poor who can go to the Devil
That the rich in their riches may revel!
You may blame it on me,
But I’m Mowed if I see
How' the deuce it is due to the Devil !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
I*“ Buy Whole Bottles. *9l
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
Candle
Sticks*
m
OITR STCCK
OF THESE
IS LARGE
IN BOTH . .
Heavy Electro plate Charnbe.
Candle-Stick,
12/6
Heavily Electro-plated on
waite hard metal,
10,0 each.
Solid Silver and Electro-plate Chamber Candle Sticks,
Piano Candle Sticks, Pillar Candle Slicks, Candelabra.
Our Prices are the Lowest in Australia. We only stock Hitch-Grade Electro-
plate that is plated on white, hard, Nickel Silver.
Electro-plated Piano
Candle Sticks, 6£in.
high, 27/- pair.
Plain Figures
C.trictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“Pr.”: A land agent showed me, the
other day, a letter that told a sad story of shrill
female voices yapping, and female hair flying, and
men called Bill and Jim and Joe lying dog-tired,
trying to get to sleep, while lean women clacked
sharp-tongued complaints that kept them awake.
The letter was from Bill, who placed his farm in
the hands of the agent for sale. Bill ran over its
advantages—“ 20 acers under wheet, so many
cowes, so may sheap,” good land, good rainfall—a
veritable little Happy Valley. The small upset
price demanded seemed suspicious till I read the
last sentence of the letter— “ the reeson for soilin’
been, three brothers marri’d, and all liven’ to close
together.” Then I and the land agent knew—for
he and I are brothers, and we both have wives—
why Bill was becoming estranged from Jim, and
why James went unhappy for a week after being
polite to the wife of Joseph. Also, why Joseph
told Bill to go to heaven when Bill came oyer to
“ borry a horse f’r the ploughin’.” It is a mistake
to suppose that Cain killed Abel while they were
living with the old man. It happened after they
got married and took up adjoining selections.
And Abel’s wife was a “stuck up Thing, with
nothink at all to be proud of, and Cain ’adn’t no
proper self-respeck runnin’ round f’r a woman that
treated ’is own wife like dirt.” Unlike Bill, Cain
had no land agent to help him out of the trouble.
So Cain’s wife gradually completed her work, and
one day Cain met Abei at the fence, and hit him
on the head with a hoe.
» * * »
“Thurla,” about what bushmen will eat: —
At Moonbi (N.S.W.), the groom at the pub. had hung
on the kitchen fire a cauldron containing a half-dozen
bullocks’ feet, with hair on legs, just as cut off the beast.
This was to stew all night, as he wanted the resulting oil
for softening harness, &c. A trio of bushmen, who were
on a howling bender, found their way into the kitchen
after close-up time, and, seeing the pot, concluded
it contained something eatable, so they got bowls
and had a great feed of soup. Early next morning- they
were roused by the cook, who found them asleep, and
apparently happy, amongst the gluey bowls and cow ha r.
One praised the’excellent soup, until enlightened, when
he became violently angry. His mate had considerable
difficulty in freeing his whiskers of the glue before express-
ing his views, which were also forcible. The unhappy
third bushie had his curses sealed up, owing to his heavy
red beard being gummed over his mouth, but his rolling
eyes had murder in them.
Hearing a voice, in the bedroom adjoining mine, at a
New England pub., I became sort of curious to know who
the owner was, owing to his repeated expression, “I’d
die fer a sheep’s kidney.” A beery-looking old chap was
holding a raw sheep’s kidney on a knife-blade over the
flame of a candle, and shortly afterwards Set to work to
make a meal on the smoke-blackened fragment.
REVENGE.
MISS. O'HARA (worsted in an argument with her
husband): “I don't want to gaol 'im for it,
sorr; but and ye mind stheppin’ inside and
bindin' 'im down to kape the pace while I
dale wid 'im in my own way? ”
“ C.M.” ; Opened an egg the other morn-
ing, not a “shop-’un,” but a clean-bred station
egg, and discovered a melon seed right in
the middle of the yolk. How did it get there ?
Seems to me the fowl that laid the egg couldn’t
have swallowed the seed and choked so that the
thing got down the wrong passage or anything of
that sort, because in that case she would have had
appendicitis and gone to a private hospital.
Besides, what’s a melon seed to a bird that is wont
to swallow chunks of gravel and blue metal as aids
to digestion ? Then I thought of the stories I had
read of people sitting on needles and pins and
things, and the weapons working out years after-
wards under the left arm-pit; and it seemed to
me the hen might have sat on the melon seed.
But I don’t believe that would account for the
seed getting inside the egg.
ART CRITICISM.
BENNO (disgusted): “Shall I ’cave a rock at them?"
CHINNY : “ No, leave the pore cores alone. They ain't done us no 'arm."
“ Ku Klux ” : Before the last rabbit dies
of thirst I would like to contribute my pint of
kerosene to extinguish the blaze that threatens to
drown him. Down past Port Albert is a small
island, about 200 yards long, which is swarming
with rabbits ; and the orily water they get is when
it rains. And often it doesn’t rain for weeks. I’ve
never seen them or the island, but my authority is
moderately reliable.
* * * *
“Kaira”: The insect is a human sort of
beast. Was sitting by a ditch watching the
antics of the smell therefrom, when a huge spider
emerged from its unfinished meat trap and gave
chase to a strange specimen with long legs. They
raced along the upended board-kerbing, the spider
gaining on the awkward alien, and looking a
certain devourer. But when he was close on the
heels of the pacemaker the leading article swerved
suddenly to the off, and, Standing upon its front-
quarters, started kicking vigorously. Overwent
the spider wallop to its foetid f te. The alien
scraped its legs for a few seconds, then with one
hand to its nose, it looked over the kerb to see its
outmanoeuvred victim. It turned its back on the
spider, and shook with emotion—actually gloated.
Then with the firm tread of the successful football-
barracker, it went home and fell on its missus’
neck and beat her.
* * * *
“ Paul Pearson ” : Be par. on Queensland
attracting population from N.S. Wales (3/8/'O5).
It is a curious fact that 50 per cent, of the
men employed by drovers, who come down
from the far North of Queensland, never get
nearercivilisation than Wilcannia. “ Too far
in already,” they say, and, after a week or
two’s spell, make back to the land of freedom and
easily-earned cheques.
“ The Prooshan ” : Once was mates with a
chap named Tom, on pad near Swan Hill (Vic.).
We called to inquire the temperature at a pub.
at Lake Charm, mostly known then as “ Murder-
ing Lake.” Incidentally we had a drink, and
Tom said he thought a certain stage was thirty-
two miles. A wild-looking Irishman, who was
spreeing there and looking for fight, called Tom a
sanguinary perverter of the truth, and started
peeling off. Tom, looking at me, said, “I don’t
want any mullock of this sort. Well shove.”
“Right you are, Tom,” said I; and right there
entered a black drink-cadger, who had caught his
name. “ Baal you tighten him, Tom, better mine
tighten him ” —and, before we could speak, or the
Irishman look up, the nigger landed him a crash
from a waddy with a vast knob on the end.
Down went M‘Ginty like a falling crinoline,
and in ten seconds he had a lump on his head as
big as an emu egg. It took twenty minutes and a
bottle of brandy before he knew whether he was
an Irishman or a Cherokee, and on the first glim-
mer of returning life, we lifted our blueys and
“made.” Mackenzie, the nigger, left earlier.
Five years later 1 struck him near Wagga.
“Hello,” he cried; “’member that bloke Tom
longa pub. ? ” He had only heard my name
dropped once during the row, but he had kept it
in his head all the five years. Niggers seldom
forget.
* * * *
“ Vigilans ” : I got a shock recently.
Visited the Botanic Gardens of the Northern
Territory at Palmerston. A cocoanut plantation
going to ruin ; a dilapidated, uncared-for aviary ;
a patch of vegetables, likewise tobacco, with about
a chain of cotton. Goats and buffaloes prowl
over the place. Gates and fences have long since
fallen into decay. Rubbish lies about promis-
cuously. There is a no caretaker but a non*
communicative Asiat r ip,; no names of trees or
shrubs are to be seen. I believe the S. Australian
Government allows £3OO for the care of this place
and this is the result.
“A. Borig”: More of our unsuspected
“ great natural resources.” The most intelligent
young Chinaman I ever knew lived on Monaro.
I often called in to his hut to have a yarn. Hang-
ing up in the chimney were three or four plucked
crows, well smoked, and, through the time they
had been hanging, as hard as wood. Thought he
had them for purposes of worship, but asked him
one day what, he wanted with smoked crow.
“Oh! welly good." Me getem too •muehoe belly-
ache ; welly bad alonga inside. Glind ’em up
welly fine, makem soup, dhnk um ; all li’ nex’
day. You tly ’em.” Any bushman who wants to
try this remedy must start smoking the crow at
once ; it will be too late when he gets “ welly bad
alonga inside.”
* # * •
“ Reily ” : Small wonder some bush
people die of snake bite. Here is a case. Damp,
dark night. Woman and girl
alone in house. No close
neighbors. Girl, sent to put
up slip-rails, ran back shriek-
ing, “I mbit.” Woman tired
off a gun or two, took lantern,
and rambled out to investi-
gate. Found death-adder at
slip-rails, killed it, and went
back to house. Girl dead.
Been dead ever since. Re
maximum length of snakes.
Table land and flat country
folk reckon lift. Gin. a “ bos-
ker,” and,l2ft. Gin. a violent
extremist, but on Clarence
River writer’s uncle shot a
reptile (carpet) 14ft. Gin. in
length, and the slaughter of
another (also carpet), stretch-
ing 17ft., was reported from
the same place. The size of
serpents is pretty much a
matter of the country they
grow in, and who sees ’em.
Knew a man who used to tell of a place in Queens-
land where the local serpent was used instead of
a hurdle at steeplechases, and foot-races used to
be run from one end of him to the other. This
man drank.
* * ■* *
“Wiljar”: “I kin always tell,” said
Dick’s ma, “when my Dick’s going on th’ tear.
First, ye kin smell a glass ov rum on ’im, then
two glasses, then t’ree glasses. Next day ye kin
smell a bucketful ov rum on ’im, and th’ next day
two bucketfuls, an’ the day after ye kin smell a
tank ov rum, and a few days after that—well, he’s
on th’ spree.”
* * *
“ L.C.” : I am not much of an agriculturist,
but I think that, in view of the proved suitability
of our soil to the cultivation of the rabbit, and the
great market available, the farmer should leave
off planting hayseed and grow bunnies. I approach
the subject with some diffidence, as I don’t really
know what time of the year rabbits should be
sown, or how long they take to come up; but it
seems to me that, being so numerous in a wild
state, the cultivated crop should prove very
abundant, besides being of a better quality. I
am afraid the bucolic intellect is somewhat obtuse.
I began to explain my theory to a farmer the
other day, but he said “Damn!” with such
emphasis that I dropped the subject.
Unless the culpable habit of
giving dogs small nobblers is stopped, it will be
necessary to provide a canine inebriates’ retreat.
There is a small dog belonging to a public house
in Woolloomooloo who (commonly on the verge of
d.t.’s) spends his days chasing creatures of his dis-
ordered imagination off the premises. This is due
to the frequenters of the bar parlor (with whom
he is on terms of raffish intimacy) indiscriminately
nipping him with the dregs from their glasses.
Saw the dog early the other morning sitting at the
door, looking miserable after an overnight’s de-
bauch, and apparently watching for someone. A
bloated-looking individual hurriedly approached
and entered. The dog, with a glad bark of recog-
nition, excitedly rose, wagged his tail and followed
the man to the empty bar. At the uncorking of a
bottle of soda-water the dog yelped hoarsely, and,
sitting down, looked up eagerly. When the man
had drunk, he stooped and poured down the
animal’s throat what remained of the liquid.
Without a word the refreshed toper departed,
and the dog—after coughing—slunk to a coriu r
and curled himself up for sleep.
* * * *
The landlord of the “Swagman’s Rest” at
Geebung was a fairly artistic liar, and had a fine
declamatory st le when spurred to oratory. He
was a strong Orangeman, and was a good deal
prouder of the institution than the institution
was of him. It was by way of a joke, when funds
were being raised for additions to the local R.C.
Church, that Father O Reilly and Father Murphy
called at the hostelry and bluntly asked him for a
subscription to the church fund. It nearly took
his breath away. “What!” he exclaimed ; “ ask
me to—gentlemen, I will becalm! Show me a
Catholic widow in distress or a Catholic orphan in
need of food or clothing, and I will, poor as I am,
and Orangeman as I am proud to be, donate imme-
diately one golden sovereign, and one silver
shilling, making together the sum of one guinea,
towards the relief of that needy widow or orphan.
But, gentlemen, do not, I beg of you, unless you
wish to hear language that would make a bullock-
driver shudder—do not ask me for a subscription
to the funds of a church against the arrogant
domination of which my forefathers fought and
bled ! Will you join me in a glass of wine? ’
And the priests laughed, and drank the glass of
wine.
■* -< * #
“ Snowy ” : One way the aborigine catches
the wombat is by crawling down the hole with a
rope, which he ties to womby’s hind leg, if he
happens to be at home and facing the right way.
Then our black brudder crawls out, and the rest of
the proceedings are easy. One brudder I knew
made a mess of the thing, however. He crawled
down the hole, not dreaming, in the innocence of
his heart, that womby wasn’t at home. Just
when he was well in, and filling up the narrow
part of the passage, his dog rou ed the animal
from thc'adjacent jungle, and it made fast time to
its lair. It didn’t know that Binghi was leav n ;
his card on the premises, so when it fled down the
hole, and brought up against the back part of
something warm and the color of midnight, there
was trouble. Binghi yelled numerously. The
wombat threw itself up against the obstacle in a
most excited manner, and every time it collided
the obstacle bellowed something awful. In the
end, it managed to scramble over Binghi, who
backed out angrily, and threw clods at his dogs in
a most dement' d fashion. [The Bulletin doesn’t
go bail for the truth of this story.]
THE MORNING AFTER.
“Periwinkle” (Vie.): Witnessed a fine
example of canine sagacity at the time of t e
Campaspe floods. I went down to a paddock on
the river where the rise was finding its level. Two
dogs were there—rouseabout canines of the collie
stamp from the farm on the rise—killing rabbits
that had been flooded from their low-lying tree-
root burrows. This done, the canines followed
me, saying, in tail-language every experienced
bushman understands better than his catechism,
that they knew where there was further fun. I
followed to a burrow, into the main hole of which
the water would trickle if I scraped a short chan-
nel. There were seven entrances to this burrow
other than the flooding one, and to see those two
dogs settle down to the graft of covering over
those escapes, with their hind paws, was wonder-
ful. In two minutes they had covered the holes,
sitting on each violently and dumping the earth
well in. Then the doggy sappers waited till the
trickle found its level. One after another the
bunnies ventured into daylight, and there was
carnage.
GRACE BEFORE MEAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Ben M'Pherson’s fencing camp,
The fellows were a decent stamp,
And tried to live like men ;
They said their grace as all men should,
Although their cook was not too good,
And grieved them now and then.
As it was hot, and flies were bad,
The cook a big dish-cover had,
Which no one moved but Ben ;
They never knew, till grace was said,
What dainty dishes had been spread,
Those pious fencers ten.
One day, when Ben had said, with zest,
“ For what we are,” and all the rest,
And finished with “ Amen,”
He raised the cover for a look,
And shouted, “ Damn the blanky cook,
Cold rabbit pie again ! ”
N.S. W.
HENRY E. HORNE.


Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRV
w V>
FINEST EXTRA Q?
FALIERES’ PHOSPHATINE
HAS PRECEDENCE OVER ALL OTHER
SOOOJ
FOR INFANTS
& INVALIDS.
// Chemists and Grocers, “a®
m
Dress
Shields,
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
Luxury. The higher and more refined ideals associated with Dress
demand DRESS SHIELDS as a necessity. If you'Want DRESS
SHIELDS that are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for—
KLEINERT’S.
HIGH-
BUCHANAN
WHISKY
CLASS COMFORTS.
* OTARD-DUPUY
BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE .
m
Dress FABRies
Are
Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
varnished board"
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 12, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
The Week of the Horse. Horse talk, horse
laughs, horse faces, clothes-horses. Out of Psalms
(read on a recent night of insomnia, due to losing
half-a-crown in a sweep) I got the tip that Jehovah
has no sympathy with the A.J.C. or any other
race club. “He delighteth not in the strength of
a horse : He taketh not pleasure in the legs of a
man.” (N.B. —The bare-legged Highlanders who
sat round Jessie Maclachlan at her last conceit
will please note the second clause). Writer of
Psalms either couldn’t ride (and blamed his mount)
or the brumbies he backed in Jerusalem with Me-
phibosheth, the bookmaker, ran stiff, for he makes
several other contemptuous references to the horse
as being “a vain thing for safety,” and blames
him for “not delivering his great strength.” If
you despise the spring carnival, you do so in
august, if rather ancient, Hebrew company—that’s
one consolation.
The talent of the A.J.C. officials for ensuring
unpleasantness of some sort amounts to positive
genius. All around the grand-stands at Randwick
on Saturday hung a choking cloud of dust. The
lawns should have been hosed in the morning, or
the day previous, or any old time within the last
week. They probably got a wetting last May—
we have not had a good downpour since.
Thousands of feet beat the long-dried soil
to powder, and the sight of delicate black
and white dress fabrics, after an hour’s dusting,
was bad to behold. Talk about going on the
land ! The land came on us, and I inhaled a
whole improvement lease without paying a
deposit, consequently I am liable to be summoned
before the Lands Commission at any moment.
The A.J.C. should make up its mind definitely as
to whether it wishes to run a race-course or a
hennery. For poultry, I believe, dust-baths are
soothing and wholesome. For expensively-dressed
women they are exasperating.
At the races were some world-girdlers—a son of
Noel Paton, the artist, and his wife (they are rela-
tives, I believe, of Dr. Paton, of this city), and the
steamship people, the “Jaok” Potters. Mrs.
Potter, in the black of the raven as to gown and
the blue of the sky as to toque, is artistic-
looking—a tall woman, long-necked, bright-
eyed, and with an undeniable figure. Cottrell
Dormer, A.D.C. to the Governor of Apple-
Land, was there. The (Essie Jenyns) Woods,
both in bad health and just returned from
Canada, were around with the Steads. Latter’s
horses swept the course. Baronet Clarke was
a big loser, but one of his two brothers stood by
the island steeds and won. Two very recent
brides of two doctors, Kelly and Waugh, showed
up respectively in shimmering blue and pink.
Mrs. “ Longueville ” Mackin’s russet gown was
the first out here of that curious textile fabric, the
ramie, “ invented ” by Mrs, Ernest Hart, the
artist and designer of London. Numerous painted
muslins, chiffons and embroidered linens got an
airing.
Miss Nance O’Neil in grey, with blue prefaces
and a white leghorn hat tied under her round
chin, was shown round by Mrs. J. C. Williamson.
I don’t know any beautiful woman whose por-
traits more belie her than those of this artiste. In
them she looks a stupid, chubby girl trying to put
on a tragic face. The original is a woman's face,
soft, innocent, but alive with power and intel-
ligence.
On Metropolitan night, the Criterion seemed
to have been given over mostly to our country
cousins. Noticed, however, in the circle, Rector
Carr Smith, of St. James’, with his latest curate.
The two ate sweets in boyish fashion as they
digested the moral of the play. How it must
make the clergy envious to hear Flemming, as
Jack Frobisher, declaim his sermon against the
smart set. They can’t have the advantage of good
stage-setting for their denunciations of wicked-
ness, nor can they get the dramatic advantage of
putting before them in the pillory a fair and
representative sinner to point their moral. The
church would do much better if it had the scenery
and the limelight, and if the preacher had autho-
rity, when he preaches against clothes and vanity,
to order some fair sinner to come forth from her
pew and stand up as an example of the thing he
meant, and remain standing till he was finished
with her as an illustration.
By the way, few of the Criterion audiences seem
to drop to one of the smart little cynicisms of
“ The Walls of Jericho ” —that about the conveni-
ence of a wife in Mayfair having her husband “ in
parlibus .” The dialogue doesn’t even finish the
phrase, “ inpartibus infidelium ,” to give those who
are not up in church lore the tip that it means in
foreign parts —very much in foreign parts.
One of the side-shows at the Australia is McKee
Rankin’s negro servant, beautifully tailored and
smoking an obese cigar. Baronet Clarke’s icy
stare at haughty Sambo puffing smoke in the
vestibule of the hotel would befit an old-time
planter from Louisiana. Mention of the popular
Rupert reminds that he almost lapses into purple
patches of poetio description when telling of the
island scenery inside the Barrier Reef, Queens-
land way.
Another side show was provided by two prelates
of the R.C, church seeking money to pay a cab-
man, One wore a long red silk garment over
another long black garment over the usual tubular
things, and Avhen he yanked up his red skirts and
his black underskirt and dived into his pants’
pockets, he didn’t look quite as sacred as pre-
viously.
At the Euryalus dance, with its stacked rifles
and trumpetings, the pink-dressed women looked
the best. Miss Clara Manning and Miss Doris
Blomfleld—latter in baby-rose petal-shades—took
the eye. Miss Von Arnheim towered a beautiful
pillar of womanhood, all in St. Patrick’s Day
green. Mrs. J. J. Smith’s pink gown was a
triumph of silk tracery on silk muslin and
wreaths of roses, over a white underskirt
with Greek-patterned ruchings and blush roses.
Miss Edo Macdonald, a squatter girl from
Singleton, had the prettiest white frock, and
looked like an ice maiden under a shower of
moon rays. Opal swallows were on her shoulders,
and the same kind of winged thing gleamed in her
hair.
Mr. T. H. Kelly and his wife have had narrow
escapes from having a daisy quilt growing oyer
them. On Friday evening they were dog-carting
home at a great pace when the cart skidded on
the tram-line. The horse went on and over-
turned the cart, and the pair were dragged 30
yards or so. Mr. Kelly is undergoing alterations
and repairs, but Mrs. Kelly turned up bright as
the day at both race meetings.
Miss Alexia Bassian, writing from on board the
Omrah, says that her throat is steadily improving
and that she has won the prize for deck billiards.
Mention of a singer reminds me that a corres-
pondent writes to ask what has become of that
handsome contralto, Maud Dalrymple, who went
hence for study over a year ago. The Lonsdales
were falling over each other, so eager were they to
help her to climb up and up over her own top
note. Latest news is that Miss Dalrymple is to
appear at Wood’s prom,made concerts at the
Queen’s Hall, London, and has large prospects.
fi'everal Sydneysiders are going on the land in a
small, flower - bordered - landscape - garden way.
Land is not more than a few hours’ journey by
swift motor from town —land with blossoming
orchards and a clear view right away to the sun-
set ; where the salad grows already beautifully
dressed, and the Jersey cows always wear the blue
ribbons they won at the Show. The Oswald Watts
(he is something warlike at Victoria Barracks, and
distinguished himself by marrying a Melbourne
beauty—a daughter of Mr. Justice Williams) are
going on the land at Picton. The Waleys, a Point
Piper family, the head of which is general
manager of Bellambi Coal Co., are also going
to the same district, where they have bought the
show stationette known as Mowbray Park.
Extract from the letter of a rich Australian
mother who took her 14-years old daughter to
England to have the young idea trained in the way
of the smart set: —
What do you think of the fees at school where we
have sent Belle ! Three hundred a year ! I shall leave
her there for two years. Her clothes will come to quite
another hundred a year. But in addition to the
usual lady’s schooling she will be taught everything
—even to bridge. Dances, dinner-party-giving, driv-
ing and riding in the park and chat on current
novels, pictures, and the lighter side of politics and reli-
gion (!). Tiie pupils act in amateur theatricals and get
quite used to the wearing of long - , trained dresses, and
are not rigorously separated from the society of gentle-
men. When Belle “ comes out ” there ought to be no
gaucherie about her.
Byron called a girl’s coming out—“A virgin’s
first blush at a rout.” Nary a blush will Belle
have in her debutante outfit, if she takes kindly
to her training.
Mrs. Reginald Quesnel shows good generalship
in the foiees she has mobilised for the concert in
aid of the Girls’ Realm Guild on September 19, at
the Y.M.C.A. Hall. The committee includes a
leading ecclesiastic or two, some Judges, a few
leaders of society, and a bunch of literary, musical,
and military persons. Object of the concert is
remarkable for its worth and modesty. The Girls’
Realm Guild helps financially poor maidens who
give promise in musical or artistic work. Miss
Grace Burrows (who represents the G.G. in Syd-
ney) and the indispensable Southwell will business-
manage the concert, at which Miss Eva Champion,
Miss Arline Thackeray, Mr. Bryce Carter and
others will assist. The Darleys, and Archbishop
Smith, with a couple of Smithereens, will sit in
the front seats.
A gilt-faced card, carrying a medallion portrait
in violet tones of Miss Violet Mount, was hand* d
to guests attending the “at home” given the
.soprano by her .concert committee at Paling’s
rooms. Miss M&y Summerbelle, whose “ Pop
Corn ” Cakewalk is having a good, tuneful run,
lurked successfully in the doorway and gave out
the pretty mementoes. An extensive musical pro-
gramme was then inflicted on Miss Mount. Very
good music, most of it, but she had heard all the
performers, and their performances, frequently,
and —how these musicians must wish for variety,
if only in the form of a troupe of performing dogs!
Recent production, by conductor Asprey, of
“The Bohemian Girl’’.discovered to Sydney
public two good male voices—New South Walers,
both ; and the possessors, Messrs. R. L. Neild and
W. F. Wilkinson, are in merchants’ offices in the
city. They have been offered concert platform
engagements by a local manager.
Miss Jean Maelurcan and Miss Kathleen Beattie
are the two gems in the setting of “In Town,”
now being played by Mr. Lytton’s “Players,” at
the Palace. Former girl, who has a small voice
of sweet quality, played Kitty Hetherington, and
is as graceful on the stage as Grace Palotta, but
she can dance, which Grace Couldn’t. Miss Beattie,
as the young lord ling, is the most fascinating of
“boys.” A foreign visitor who was in the audience
compared her to Vesta Tilley, and I’m not sure
that the comparison was not to Miss Tilley’s dis-
advantage.
“ Have you got your divorce costume yet?” will
soon be a natural query to put to smart women
who desire to be unmarried again. A barrister,
writing to a prospective divorcee, advised her to
go to court well dressed
Don’t go in colors. It you appear to be making a holi-
day of it you will get little sympathy. Dress for the
court as if for one of the necessarily saddest incidents of
life. Black is not necessary. Deep black would be
absurd. If you wear colors, let them be sombre and
unobtrusive, but be anything but dowdy.
Advt. of the near future : Messrs. Blank and
Blank are now holding the second of their bi-
annual exhibitions of divorce court costume
specialities. These gowns are so contrived that m
coloring and decoration they express different
sentiments. Gown one : A silk voile of dull grey
with deep border round foot of skirt showing a
design of broken rose-buds on a ground of tender
green. Expressive of “ Has Sorrow Thy Young
Days Shaded ? ” Toque of grey and green turned
up with pink bird with broken wing. A decree
nisi, with large alimony and the custody of the
child, will be ensured by the wearing of this
confection.
A few weeks ago the Sydney Ferries Co. put up
a red-roofed waiting-room at the Point wharf,
one of the Mosman stopping places, and as soon
as the dolly little building was finished, it
was tarred with the name of a patent pill.
The disfigurement was allowed to remain for six
clear days, and by the time it was painted out
all the Moswonien and their husbands believed
it had been done with S.F. Co.’s permission. Now
that the Ferries Co. has laid up large treasure on
earth, it is time that some less primitive means
than a plank were devised whereby passengers
can get on and off the eo.’s steamers. Noah him-
self didn’t use anything more crude when he dis-
mounted from the Ark. And the way the cum-
brous, narrow board is pushed on the boat is at the
oblique angle of a bad squint. Some day towards
the end of this century a ferry shareholder will
suggest that as much care be taken in the dispatch
of ferry-boats as is exercised to-day in railway
management, and then men in uniform, not youth-
ful deckhands in rags, will have charge of jetty
traffic.
What an ugly habit is growing among Austra-
lian women—those who are otherwise gentle-
women —of using expletives ! “ I won’t go to that
dressmaker again. She keeps one waiting such a
h— of a time.” The speaker, or rather swearer,
was one of Sydney’s best girls—young, pretty,
travelled, all-advantaged, in fact. She used the
whole name of the glowing place, not merely its
initial letter ; and her companion, another girl
whose lips looked fit to say only angelic things,
replied, “ Yes, besides that, she lives such a devil
of a way out of town.” Once, on the dais at &
ball, among the personal friends of a Governor’s
wife, a lady, speaking to a group of gentlemen,
condemned something as “damnable.” If one
of the men had used the phrase in her presence
she would certainly have turned her back hair
and the tail of her gown on him in indignation.
An American artist has been complaining that
he can no longer get suitable models for his female
figures because all the women of to-day have heads
too large for their bodies. This is due, he asserts,
to modern culture. Another critic replies that
the Greek woman’s head was too small. The
fault lies there, not here. The Greek girl never
swelled her head through cultivating her brain.
“Artists will have to remodel their ideas about
models.”
A “ Society ” dressmaker who used to build up
elegant bills in an Australian city (two guineas for
making and 15 guineas for extras) writes from
Paris to a friend that the Faubourg Saint Germain
is wearing paper hats at garden parties and at the
seaside. “Chapeaux d’un jour” are they called,
for their freshness lasts but a day. White, pale
green, heliotrope, and other delicate shades of
crinkled paper form the basis of the garment, and
the trimming consists of ox-eye daisies and flower
buds, also of paper. A summer or so ago hats
plaited of colored paper were worn by the thousand
in Sydney, but the Faubourg de Darling Point
and Quartier Point Piper would have none of them.
Paper hats were left entirely to the “lowah
ordahs.” Our domestic misfit made one for me —
it was a lovely thing like a Whistler sunset with
faint strains of music in the distance, and I wore it
through the dog star month. But from the way
mv friends spoke and wrote to me about it you
might have thought I had run amok through the
Decalogue, and wounded at least six command-
ments so. seriously that faint hopes were enter-
tained of their recovery. On a day one of the
commentators absent-mindedly hung the hat on a
lighted gas jet, and the smoke of the sacrifice, etc.
Mr. Reginald Ford, the iceman, or rather the
man who was with the Discovery party what time
that vessel went breaking ice in the Antarctic,
takes himself and his teeth (the kind of teeth that
are worth money to a person who has to smile
from a platform at an audience) to Christchurch
(M.L.). The M.L. Government evidently
looks upon him as a desirable immigrant,
and is going to give him a “stiddy job.” Christ-
church is a City of the Plain, and you can see
teeth a long way off there. At his first lecture
here Mr. Ford spoke for two hours and ten
minutes. Then his manager handed him a card,
on which was pencilled “ Dry up.” Much against
the wish of the audience he dried. I had this
story on the most incompetent authority.
You may track the Gaiety co. through Australia
by picking up papers containing Miss Marguerite
Thomas’portrait as Nanoya in “ The Cingalee.”
There she is smiling out at you, her quaint little
nose in its usual place, up between her eyebrows,
and her brown eyes giving, even in the pictures,
the idea of moistness. Most men rave over this
artiste’s love-making, but women don’t care for it.
Too slobbery for them. I have heard a base
person say “ It is much too natural for the stage.”
A still baser person said “ A lady should not lick
the object of her affections in public,” but it wasn’t
Miss Thomas that she was speaking of.
Two Australian girls recently married in London
—Miss Gladys Broomfield, one of an old Balmain
family, to a man-of-war named Arthur J. Mae-
Kean ; and Evelyn, the second daughter of Mr.
George Shenton, President of the Westralian
Legislative Council, to Mr. James A. Mactear.
The habit people named Mac have of acquiring
articles of great value thus asserts itself once
more.
A lady, whose looks are not small potatoes m
her own or anyone else’s estimation, was, the other
afternoon, passing by the side entrance of a Potts
Point mansion when its cook was leaning out of
her kitchen and discussing someone—probably an
unpopular missus—with a neighbor’s housemaid,
standing on the footpath. “Look here,” ex-
claimed the sauce-maker, “if I had a face like
hers, I’d draw it on a slate and then rub it out.
“And so would I” was the housemaid’s hearty
response. At that instant the cook’s eye met the
lady’s upturned glance, and in a pained voice she
explained, “Oh, madam, I assure you we was not
talking of your face.”
An Albury correspondent, with a taste for read-
ing the “Almanac de Gotha,” tells me that
“Count d’Argentan, whose patent of nobility
dates from 1500,” has recently left the German ton
district, where he had been staying for some
months collecting materials for a book, to be pub-
lished in Paris next year. I don’t know what
material the Count could get at Germanton but
rabbits, and perhaps a wild cat from Coppabella.
Also, my correspondent informs me that this dis-
tinguished gentleman is handsome and unmarried,
and that some Australian girl is letting slip the
chance of becoming Countess d’Argentan.
Lady Bedford and Miss Bedford, of Westralia,
are very fond of the theatre, and everything con-
nected with it. Miss Bedford, it is said, aspires
to go on the boards.
Hope our artist Longstaff won’t learn to say
“ haw.” He’s been staying as the guest of Lady
Anstruther in Lanarkshire, at Castle Something,
and a fellow guest was the Duke of Connaught.
Hostess is a daughter of our Chief Justice Darley.
One of the young male artists in the Belle
Crome Co. is a disappointed youth to-day. He
does a rare kind of skirt-dance, wearing a robe
containing 170 yards of silk. But the police
regulations shut down and prevented him skirt-
dancing in all these innumerable chiffons at the
Lyceum. That place of “amusement,” now that
it is under Mr. Vickery’s halo, is no longer
licensed as a theatre. The “coon” turn done by
Miss Crome and her brother was also interdicted.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKENEHI.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 11, 1905.
My Dear Yarrie,—
It isn’t always the recalcitrant groom whose
non-arrival hinders the Voice that ought to have
started to breathe o’er Eden. Recently the parson
wasn’t there. The couple to be linked were up
to time. The millinery was up to the occasion.
The choir w&s up to beat. But the parson had
gone astray. The pair waited. Messengers were
despatched. The manse was visited without any
luck. The parson’s missus asked in alarm what
she could do. The messenger snorted out that she
could do nothing, unless she could locate her holy
man. She suggested vai’ious places where he
might have been paying parochial calls. ’Phone
bells started to ring. Every place suggested was
the subject of hot inquiry. Meanwhile a greatly
embarrassed couple sat and thought out an ex-
pedient. After a long, trying, feverish wait, a
sympathetic guest suggested that the pair should
go and get hitched minus the Voice and the floral
bells, by any willing marrier in the neighborhood.
So they drove round the populous suburb, seeking
for a hitcher and eventually ran one to his lair.
The lost parson is said to have been either playing
golf or ministering to a dying parishioner.
“Be a brute; woman likes strength”—that’s
the moral of the story which the American-Ger-
man butcher who married and murdered 50 wives
told in gaol to the interviewers. His method of
courting was “to hurt a woman, to squeeze her
hand, crush her foot, or half-strangle her,” in proof
of the strength of his emotions. And a blushing
“ yes,” he said, almost always followed this rough
wooing. It is the same philosophy as that of
Mordernilyj in “Tales of Mean Streets.” He
knocked her head against the wall, “ and she was
happy, for she knew that this was love.”
Society ladies are not the only ones of their sex
to go in for the beauty cult. Back in the South
Gippsland bush, where the women and girls are
unable to leave their homes for six and seven
months at a stretch on account of rain and bad
roads, the mania has intruded, so I am told by
visitors down for the show. “No meat, no tea,
no coffee : they are awful bad for the skin ” is
heard on all sides. One rosy-faced damsel, the
other day : “ I don’t mind the milking, ’cause
it makes yer ’ands white, and I always washes
me face with some uv the ‘ strippin’s.’ ’’ Besides
“strippin’s, ’ country lasses use buttermilk and
fresh cream from the separator as cosmetics. The
hair is worn in long plaits, “because the sun-
shine is good fer the ’air.” It is further encour-
aged to grow by yolk of egg, etc. One lady
“ loves washin’-day, because being over the
copper steams yer face, and steaming is splendid
fer wrinkles.”
Since the reprimand meted out to certain hos-
pital nurselets for putting on trousers and playing
larks in a ward where a child was dying, matrons
are on guard and vigilant, and “larks” are off.
Among the girleens anxious to don the nurse's,
uniform there is a reasonable protest against the
rich novice. In one Melbourne hospital the-
daughter of a wealthy western squatter pats,
the pillow and administers the draught. On.
the same staff is an orphan of some pro-
perty. At St. Vincent’s are two moneyed girls..
And this while there are shoals who haven’t two.
tram fares to jingle in their purselets, and who.
can’t get a post in any of the big institutions for
the sick. The girl of grit bluntly says she’s after
a livelihood combined with the best matrimonial!
chances, and she thinks it jolly hard to be kept out.
while heiresses, for sheer lack of ideas or with %
notion of mere fun, get the preference.
Still more of hospitals. I have met the cham-
pion strong girl, with absolutely no nerves, but
any amount of nerve. She was in for something
highly respectable. The morning of the operation
three nurses hove in sight, with tender words and
sympathetic touch, to envelop her frail form in the
winding sheet prescribed for the table. She
jostled herself into it. Then the Nightingales
grouped round to take her up in their strong
arms. She insisted on walking to the operating
theatre. Arrived there, she nodded cheerily to
sawbones, and, asking which was her bunk,
despised the ladder and climbed up, had her


Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
m
To His Majesty
The King.
GUARANTEED PURE.
“MOIR’S”
WORCESTER
SAUCE
Quality & Flavor Unsurpassed.
“rvsom’s ”
GENUINE
“SCOTCH" OATMEAL
It is the strongest Meal obtain-
able, Packed in hermetically
sealed tins, and is very fattening
and nourishing.
JOHN MOIH AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
Missing Friends.
ADAMS, CHARLES, now about 50 years of age, a
native of Windsor, N.S.W., left Windsor about'the
year 1888, and anyone knowing his whereabouts, or, if
dead, date and place of his death, please con municate
with HOUSTON AND BARNES, Solicitors, 10 O’Conriell-
Two Business Men
In Sydney, Tell How Quickly Mother Seigkl’s
Syrup Cured Them op Indigestion.
“ Like thousands of others in this country, I was
for years greatly troubled with chronic indigestion,
which m its turn brought on insomnia, heart
trouble and general bodily weakness.”
That is the way Mr. John Doyle, of 32 Bellevue-
street, Surry Hills, Sydney, wrote on December
10, last. “I was treated,” he says, “by my
doctor for months, but the most he did was to
afford a little temporary relief. After reading
some literature in regard to Mother Seigel’s Syrup”
I resolved to give it a trial some months back. I
was more than pleased with its prompt action on
my weakened and distressed digestive organs, and
after taking a few bottles I was thoroughly restored
khe best of health. I still remain quite well.”
Mr Doyle is a well-known business man, who at
one time kept an hotel at Paddington. He is now
a valuator in a prominent financial house in
Lliza bet 1 1 -street, City.
Now hear the testimony of another business
man, Mr. William Lee, Little Norton-street,
ourry Hills, who is an active, bustling salesman
for one of the large Sydney tea houses. Writing,
on December 30 last, he says : —“ I was for a long
period a great sufferer from indigestion and
rheumatism. The rheumatic pains frequently
rendered me helpless for days, and the effects of
the indigestion reduced me very much in strength,
weight and every other respect. I went to much
expense in buying patent and other medicines;
but did not derive any benefit worth speaking of
from any of them up to three years back, when
I was lead to make a trial of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. After taking it for some little time my
food began to nourish and strengthen me, the
rheumatic pains decreased and I felt quite a new
man. I can now attend to my work with ease,
and an occasional dose of the Syrup serves to
maintain me in the best of health.”*
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
THE BROUCH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY
in the Great London Success,
THE WALLS OF JERICHO .
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 16, BEAUTY AND THE BARCE.
SJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* ■ Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
the Eminent Young American Tragedienne,
Miss 3XT ance O’Weil,
in
TRILBY.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 16, ELIZABETH.
Box Plan at Paling’s. I®"* PRICES AS USUAL.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
A SAILOR S SWEETHEART,
Presented by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 16, BETWEEN TWO WOMEN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
The Celebrated Musical Artists, the
BELLE CROME COMPANY,
VOCALISTS, COMEDIANS, MUSICIANS, and
UNRIVALLED BELLRINGERS.
PRICES—2s, Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Gigantic Success of LES BRUNIN, Billiardistes Modernes.
Brilliant & Artistic Success of DIAMOND & BEATRICE.
STAVE, the Indian Electric Comedy Artist.
A Wonderful, Novel, and Brilliant Speciality, PAYEN,
L’Enigmatique Pierrot Gynmaste.
The Two Champion Dancers of the World, FRANK LEON
and BELLA PERMAN.
LES WARTON. FRIEDA NIEMANN. IRVING SAYLES.
HARRY ROCHFORT, HARRY HART, FRANK YORKE.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FLORENCE CHALLiS, Actress and Vocalist.
LEEDS and LE MAR, Sketch Duo.
TOM DAWSON, Comedian and Dancer.
WALTER KEEN, Monologue Entertainer.
LULU EUGENE, Song and Dance Artiste.
HARRY COWAN, Comedian.
FRANK LEON, World’s Champion Dancer.
KELLY & AGNES, Sketch Artists.
McAULEY SISTERS, Comedy Sketch Duo.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of BESIECED IN PORT ARTHUR.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 16,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Combination of
Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites, in the New
Powerful Drama,
WOMAN’S HATE.
XW PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan's.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
Phenomenal Popularity of the
STRAND THEATRE COMEDY CO.,
including Mr. J. J. DALLAS and Miss FLORENCE
LLOYD, in London’s Laughing Limit of Fun,
THE J.P,
Plan at AIIanMATINEES, WEDNESDAYS.
RJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
, GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE O i IMG ALE E,
the Latest Daly Theatre Success.
Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
ATHEH/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Edwin Geach.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
THE GREAT THURSTON,
in his Entertainment of
MAGIC, MUSIC, MIRTH and MYSTERY.
tag- PRICES —35., 25,, Is. Plan at Glen’s.
4 POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Lm 1 l
ether, lost her appendix —or whatever it was tha*
needed obliteration—and awakened in good spirits.
In a sister State, a Society beauty is consult-
ing specialists on the matter of her avoirdupois.
Her girth measurement becomes alarming. The
hot-water fad has only rendered the charmer more
plump. Fast and abstinence and anti-fat pills
are now the rule, and the lady grows melancholy
on the low diet. Her family grieves, but the fat
has to be reduced at all costs. A round girl sub-
sisting on half a meal a day is a sorry spectacle.
“ The Walls of Jericho,” when first played in
London, nearly caused a society fuss. In the
original version, the titled she-sharper, who makes
a practice of “ running away to meet the Duke,”
whenever her opponents at bridge show symptoms
of starting to win back their losses, bore the name
of the “Duchess of Matlock.” Now, Matlock, in
England, marches with the Devonshire estates,
and the Duchess of Devonshire is known as a
bridge devotee. First night of the London
production, some of the Devonshire dame’s chums
were in the stalls, and they were good
enough to identify the stage “Duchess of Matlock ”
with their “poor, dear Louise.” Next night
King Edward saw the play, and when the bridge
harpy was in evidence he discussed the situation
in tones so loud and indignant as to draw atten-
tion to his box. Next day, ’tis said, he sent for
Arthur Bourchier, and commanded him to change
“Matlock” to any name he liked, so long as he
avoided fluttering the birds on the top perch of the
hen-house of aristocracy. The offending name
was dropped, and “Jericho ” now affronts nobody
in particular, unless it be Bananalanders, who are
depicted as ignorant of dancing till they take
their first lessons in Mayfair. The average North
Australian is a born dancer, unlike the Brasseys,
Talbots, and other fairly important Britons,
who can’t get in touch with the poetry of motion.
A comic incident arose out of talk at a tea-
se-ramble t’other day. The males present refused
to believe in the fatigue of woman’s dress-fitting.
A hot discussion followed, and, to settle it, a saucy
dame dashed in with a*suggestion that any one of
them might come and see the whole ordeal, and
be convinced.' Three males leaped at the offer
like kangaroos. “Let ’em all come,” laughed the
dame, and fixed a day and hour. An appointment
was made with a Collins-street dressmaker, and
the male trio marched in at the heels of the lady.
“ We are having a dress-fitting scene in some pri-
vate theatricals next month,” she explained, “and
these gentlemen want to get all the points of the
stage business.” Madame gaped, but on seeing
the dame starting to unhook and unfasten her
outer rig, gulped down her shocked feelings and
helped in the partial disrobing. Then she set to
work with scissors, pins, and linings, while the
men looked sorry that they happened to be there.
It wasn t too good a joke. They felt as unneces-
sary as cats in a hath ; and the ordeal was much
longer and much more trying than they had
thought. _ They left converted to the view that
trying-on is a long, long weariness.
The hockey season has closed in fierce
rain and mud to the ankles. The Dunraven
and Egoleen teams wrestled for championship.
The half-backs of the swagger Dunravens (the
Misses Fairbairn, Russell, Purves, Clarke, etc.)
proved too strong in the shin for the Egoleens and
hockeyed themselves into the championship.
A man, who signs himself by the coarse pen-
name of “Glubb,” sends me this :
I went to Hawksburn cricket ground last week to see
the Egoleens beat the Dunravens for the girls’ hockey
premiership of Victoria, and spent a pleasant afternoon.
The Egoleens were all Tight, and so were the Dunravens
for that matter. I wanted hard to barrack for the
Dunravens, on account of a plump, eager-eyed blonde
who played back; but, whenever the ball came
near me, there .was a tall, lithe, shapely
brown-eyed Egoleen follower, who turned all my
sympathies to the other side. The girls varied
from 16 to 23 years, and the Egoleens probably
averaged a couple of years less than the losers.
Both sides were equally fetching sets of damsels, and at
first sight anyone would think they had been chosen
solely for show purposes. They were all pretty, they were
mostly tall, they were all rosy and well-built, and they
had an air of healthiness about them that smote the male
onlooker on his fifth rib. The ground was slippery and
falls were frequent, exposing more leg, and much better
leg, than is to be found in an average musical comedy
Strange to say, their play was no make-believe!
but serious, hard, ding-dong work from start to finish.
The Egoleens and Dunravens played in skirts, as befitted
a sassiety function, but before many seasons of hockey
are over, some wild scrimmage will terminate in a muddy
but beautiful damsel emerging from a tangled skirt like a
Modern Milo, and thenceforward knickers will probably
be adopted. Considering that hockey, shinty or hurling
—they are all practically the same—are about the roughest
games in the sporting calendar, there seems to be nothing
wrong with a girl’s football premiership in the near
future.
A daughter of the late Robert Reid is vigor-
ously pursuing her role as vet. Besides nag
pilling and poulticing, she has a knowledge of
what is good for side dogs and makes a specialty
of dog-breeding. At the recent show, she had on
exhibit a wonderful litter of prize pups.
The factory inspectors have been hustling
hatters and dress-builders out of inaccessible lairs
to bigger and better places, where the fire-escape
can prove of advantage and the bulkiest machinist
can pass down the Brigade tube from any im-
promptu blaze. Two of the most vliio and popular
makers in Collins-street top storeys have had to
pass out with all their staffs to another and safer
thoroughfare where the sun of fashion shines not
so brilliantly, but where there will be a reasonable
chance of avoiding a roast when the fire-bell
clangs.
Miss Elsie Moore has left for ’Frisco. She had
for a chum a little Melbourne florist, of some
fascination.
The engagement of Miss K. Mahony and Dr.
Jones is to be sweetly brief. There’s a likelihood
of The Voice breathing o’er them in early October.
A delicate liegira was made from the Grand by
Miss Mahony and her mamma as soon as the con-
tract was ratified by the golden hoop of affiance,
leaving the doctor (who is Inspector of Lunacy) in
possession there. The Mahonys are sticklers for
etiquette, which forbids any engaged couple bein<>*
neighbors in the same hostelry. In the extremely
smart set the same prohibition applies to husbands
and wives. But that is another story.
The registry offices warn mistresses in search of
maids not to call on Wednesday afternoons. That
afternoon all the broom and bupket ladies are at
the theatre matinees. That isn’t the only trouble.
The matinee habit is so strong* in these young
persons that it survives a domestic engagement,
and they stipulate for every Wednesday off, and
are not taking any billets unless that can be
granted them.
Fashionables frocked up to first-night expecta-
tiom-at “The J.P.,” but they weren’t in it with
the dressy mummers scattered about the Princess’
boxes and circle. Mrs. Maesmore Morris did her
brightest hour of shining since she got her decree
nisi, in the Melbourne Club pen with the two
prominent male swaggerers of the co. The fair
languisher wore black and cream chiffons of the
most elaborate build and cut, and exhibited to an
admiring house a profile of cameo perfection. In
a lower box, Mrs. Norman Menzies fluffed and
In the circle, the chic of Miss Amy Willard got
home on the audience by means of a tricky black
thatch and a Bond-street frock of sinuous velvet
and lace. After these, the local dashers had but
an unconsidered say.
“Sweet Nell” had a great farewell house,
mostly with hayseeds in its whiskers and ill-fitting
rustic_ sets of molars (this country is shockingly
weak in its false teeth), on Agricultural Thursday.
Bill from wayback interjected frequently, and
now and then the intense house “Oh’d” and
“ Ah’d ” as the Gwynne jewels and frocks flashed
on the scene. Miss Stewart was delighted. She
declares she never played to a heartier Melbourne
house, and she has played to a few. Some fare-
well baskets (oranges and roses) and a roar of
applause went up after Charles Rex had been won
over again to his best girl.
Miss Florence Lloyd shows little outward change
after an absence extending over a long string of
Australian summers. She still plays the high-
shouldered, long-toothed, lithe masquerader in a
nice cut of tailorings and with the approved
Jolinnie brand of manners. When she switched
on in a down-the-river muslin frock on Saturday
night, the brimful house smote the floor hard with
its boots. Later, when she did a jaunty stride on
as a boy, it gave her lots more applause. Miss
Maud • Chetwynd was also cheered on her way
from the start. The Chetwynd frocks were not
samples of Big Smoke quaintness or grandeur, but
they had the air of cheeky smartness that the
nimble wearer always got out of her comic-opera
dressing.
Manager Musgrove has been sporting in
Melbourne the latest of colors in vests, cuff-links,
and theatre expressions. One Big Smoke fashion
he has advertised is the wearing of pale lavender
cotton gloves. King Ned’s notion, he says.
Other arrivals with the alleged latest conceit
glue their faith to the champagne suedes and the
chiffon scarf. The latter is a girly taste for youth-
ful mashers. Cotton gloves suggest old-girl ideas.
The spinster who, at forty or thereabouts, garls
her sad paws in cotton has led a blameless life.
Miss Lucy Rowe is the latest to mount the
platform for a vocal recital. Still they come.
A few of the public are still buying benefit or
debut tickets for rising stars, but they are mostly
the next of kin. One day even the next of kin
will tire, and the star will sing her concert
numbers to the snoring door-keeper, and then the
folly of overmuch tootle will come home to others
training in this State.
A stout warbler with an engaging accent
stipulates when signing on for an “At Home”
that he shall be well and duly fed after the execu-
tion of his top C. He explains to any hostess
who doesn’t mention supper: “When I am
engaged for a little song in the evening, I eat no
meal. I must preserve my notes—keep them
fresh and pure. But after my little song, well,
there is my Little Mary ! You understand ! ”
A son of Deputy Post-master Outtrim flings a
tuneful leg and raises some beautiful notes in song
at “The Cingalee.” On the Sabbath he strikes
out the heavy chords of organ anthems at the
Church of England Grammar School. Young
Cecil Outtrim is the best-looking and most suit-
able he-recruit Williamson’s chorus has had for a
long time.
Mrs. Ross-Soden started September on its
blithe course by giving a party for the youthful,
just out of knickerbockers and pigtails, at Man-
dervilli Hall—which is a more commonsense
building than it sounds. The widow has three
sons, and youthful flutterers take to them kindly.
Swagger hotelkeepers are chuckling over Show-
week returns. For five years there has not been a
fuller complement of visitors. The crowd was not
only bigger, but its average spending capacity had
improved. Shopkeepers rejoice likewise and tell
of colossal cash receipts from day to day.
The Cumloden Old Boys had a hop the other
night—a gay go-as-you-please kind of affair. The
Old Boys are mostly bald, or getting that way.
Nevertheless they enjoyed themselves heartily.
Melbourne's Mayor is an enthusiast over sculp-
ture and art generally, and gives tangible support
to beauty views by helping city-park improve-
ment all he knows. At present, St. Kilda-road
is being extra-decorated with tropical palms of the
hardy order, and Mayor Pleasance casts a glad
eye on the improving features of that imposing
boulevard. It is a comfort to have a Mayor who
does something more than offer a glass of wine to
a visiting pugilist or pour butter over a new
footballer.
Mrs. Talbot, the Tasmanian, who has been
sporting a few bright and particular chiffons,
returned to the Flyspeck last week. She leaves a
sense of loss by her going. The ordinary Slow-
bartienne is a feeble frocker and of no account in
the ranks of the dashing, but she was an exception.
Quite a number of feminines are dangling canes
and swinging cherry-wood sticks in Collins-street
these spring days. Some young Yank tourists
started the idea.
A marriage with an extra amount of splash,
last Wednesday, was that of Miss F. Anderson—
a Clifton Hill beauty— to Mr. J. M'Grath, a
wealthy orphan with an interesting history and
sandy hair.
This hub is warmly interested over a coming
laundry match—a hard-ironing competition with
much play of the-feminine funny-bone. The match
is booked for the Exhibition Building and is to
last over four steamy days starting on this
Saturday (16th). Harper’s Silver Star or Golden
Planet starch must be employed in the show, and
the local white woman is to demonstrate that the
iron has entered her soul, and that she is game to
polish a shirt front or handle a neck-frill against
any yellow Chow in the Commonwealth.
The suburb of Essendon received a heavy blow
in its calculations on the last dav of August, when
its most reliable and most wealthy bachelor
medico took unto himself a wife without a word
of warning. Dr. Dickenson was for 20 years the
pet of all the old ladies and elderly spinsters of
the sportive suburb. His escape from their
custody has interested the whole neighborhood.
The lady is a widow—Mrs. J. Hearn—and her
family is mostly out of pinafores.
The strenuous she-Yank is learning to do a
sprint of twenty miles without tiring. Great dia-
grams and charts of the perfect pedestrienne are
published by the New York papers. The lady
is shown in various stages of progression
and hip movements. There is a rest-
ing step, a drag step, a stride, and two
se . ts ? of racing steps. Each method operates
with different muscles ar.d joints, so that the per-
formance is distributed evenly among the peram-
bulating parts of the frame. The ideal of flexi-
bility is attained by the long loose forward glide
•aid to be the feature of negro dancing. The Mel-
bourne girl is a strideful walker, when she gets
going. At present some of her are about the
rural roads and the suburban highways with a
stick and a terrier. She strides long' and fast
till she meets Him, when the drag-step sets in,
and this slows down in sympathetic company to
ON THE TRACK OF THE MISSING LINK.
One of the members of the Newtown Council gravely
asserted that in one part of the ward he represents the
residents were “walking about on four feet.”
A bride-elect, who has had three rings of
approval marked down by repute to her (the gems
having occurred consecutively, not spontaneously),
was forwarded an “Engagement Book,” the other
day, by a scratchy pal, who hasn’t had one engage-
ment ring to her credit yet. The much-engaged
charmer laughed cheerfully, admired .the gift, and
professed not to see the claws in it.
The sisters Greig have their brass plates
blinking side by each in Fitzroy. The fresh legal
sign hangs in all its new brazen effrontery besfde
the older one of the doctor.
Yours,
TRYTHENA.
Tlie alleged “scoop” of Brisbane Daily
Mail in printing Kidston’s Land Tax Bill the day
before it was ready in Queensland Assembly led
to some “ tall ” explanations. Kidston traced the
missing copy to the Parliamentary draftsman.
He said he was sure he tore up his second copy
(the published copy was one of the four marked
“Secret”). The angry Treasurer thereupon sus-
pended the draftsman. Next week Member
Cameron said he found the Bill in a room
in the Assembly, didn't notice it was marked
secret, and passed it onto “Janny” Leahy, who
said he passed it on to a prominent business man,
who said he thought it his duty to publish it in
the Daily Mail (Leahy’s paper). He meant to give
a copy to the other paper, but said he was acci-
dentally prevented. Premier Morgan said Parlia-
mentary practice compelled him to take Cameron’s
word. And that completed the sayings.
“ Guide To Beauty ’’—Free ! We will be glad
to send this book free to any applicant. It tells
all about the wonderful Yalaze. Valaze works
with a magic power on the skin. It cleanses the
pores and nourishes them with the most perfect
combination of ingredients ever incorporated to-
gether in one jar. That makes beautiful com-
plexions. Price 3s. Gd. and 6s. jars; Posted Gd.
extra. Valaze Soap 2s. (lasts six months);
Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. Gd. packet; Valaze
Skin Tonic, most cooling and refreshing 3s. 6d.
bottle; Valaze Face powder 2s. box, (3 tints) to
dust on the face. Ask your chemist or write
Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Coll ins-street, Mel-
bourne.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. _ fid. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
A. G-. Hales, back in London from the
Australia that bore and bred him, begins screech-
ing in the English papers about the things that
Australia has done to the Jap, and the thing that,
in return, the Jap won’t be long before he does to
Australia: —
The Australian people, through their Parliaments,
closed the doors of the continent to the Jap. He made
no protest, uttered no threats ; to protest was beneath
his dignity, to threaten was opposed to his policy. He
does not threaten, he strikes. He smiled and waited, and
he is waiting now.
And the truth is that, so far from closing the
door, Australia left it so much open that last year,
when every Nipper or thereabouts was supposed
to be fighting for his Nippon, Australia admitted
390 Japanese, while it only admitted 94 Russians.
The whole difference, in fact, between Australia
and Japan is that Japan pretends to admit the
Australian and the Briton, and in effect shuts them
oiit; while Australia pretends to shut the Jap out
and in effect lets him in.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE; STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
There’s the sneezy cold, the wheezy cold,
The tickler in the glottis ;
The chilly cold, the killy cold,
The cold that burning- hot is ;
The tearful cold, the fearful cold
The one that a’l the lot is -
Yet these be colds that none endure
\V purchase Woods’ Grkat I’kppkkmixt Ourk
The smart girl is never anxious for her
best boy to obtain the D.C.L. degree. Book-
learning does not necessarily make him any
brighter, whereas D.C.L. whisky does it every
time. And the S.Gr. notes the effect, bhe keenly
appreciates the fact that D.C.L.-the whisky, not
the degree—taken with proper regard to quantity,
gives her boy the best chances m life. iIJ oy
is all right,” remarked one of Sydneys cutest
spinsters to her enquiring aunt, “my boy is all
right —he’s a D.C.L’er.’
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best m the world.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 4S samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work,'s/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. OENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
pit
GS-O TO HELL'
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr«d. Hagei?, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Sought. Price Lists Gratis.
Somebody suggests, as a neat and humor-
ous way of nailing down a silly lie, that one of the
Six Hatters should be hired to lecture in England
on “How I wasn’t refused admission to Aus-
tralia.”
The Bill of Toutcher, M.L.A., for the
abolition of the Victorian Agent-General consists
of 21 words and of nine figures, viz.
This Act shall come into force on the Ist day of
Ja The' Agent-General's Act, 1890, shall be and is hereby
repealed.
Hugh Nelson wants an invitation to be
extended to British journalists to come and see
Australia, with a view to counteracting the Stink-
itig Fish party’s lies. Better, though, to invite
some local journalists to come to a quiet spot and
be clubbed into insensibility. It is chiefly the
Australian Tory who fouls the Australian nest.
In the last three years before Federation,
Australia and Tasmania sent away 8043 more
people than they received—a loss of 2081 per
annum. In the first 4i years of Federation depar-
tures exceeded arrivals, according to Treasurer
Forrest, by 4446, a loss of 988 per year Ihe
improvement under Federation is possibly due to
the Six Hatters.
It is time his own followers asked George
Reid what was behind the remarkable move that
his Government made when it attempted to confine
the sittings of the High Court to Melbourne.
Reid’s late Attorney-General, Symon, of S.A.,
has now introduced a private Bill with this end m
view, so apparently the curious job is still above
ground. What is the job, anyhow ?
Into the clubroom of a Melbourne hotel
the other evening wandered a bare score of repre-
sentatives of the metropolitan and suburban
branches of the “Reform League, all that re-
mained —the draggled tail feathers, as it were
of the ’Pootra. They were few, but full of courage,
and resolved to “resume active operations forth-
with and fight Socialism to the last ditch.
DETERIORATION OF THE BRITISH
LION.
The Anglo-Jap alliance has been renewed.
S. Australian Governor Le Hunte seems
to have been deceived by bis State Jenkins into
drawing up that report advocating colored labor
for the development of the Northern Territory.
But, whatever his excuse, the Federal Govern-
ment cannot afford to let the matter pass without
a protest to the British authorities against this
unwarrantable irruption of a mere imported rubber
stamp into Federal politics.
Mrs. Barrington, lecturing for the Victorian
Woman’s National League, struck a nasty snag at
Nagambie the other night. Farmer Derum rose
to remark :
It was the height of absurdity to think that an in-
experienced woman should dictate to practical farmers,
and advise them what to do. It was a piece of imperti-
nence ; and the same might he said of the youthful
organisers the Property Owners’ and Producers’ Associa-
tion were sending round.
The sugar question has put the Tory press
in a curious situation. First it says that the
abolition of black labor is ruining the industry and
sugar is doomed for want of the nigger. Secondly,
it points out, when it is thinking of the other side
of the case, that the sugar industry has grown so
enormously of ltite thcit A.ustr<ili<i will h&ve to find
a market to which to export its surplus, and how
can it hope to conduct an export trade considering
the blastiferous restrictions laid upon commerce
bv “ a Labor-ridden Government,” &c. ? (This line
of argument dies away gradually with a low
rumble of curses in the distance.)
It is said that little Cohen, ex-Mayor of
Adelaide, is anxious to replace ex-Premier Butler
in the leadership of the Conservative Opposition
in S. A. Assembly. He is an ambitious personage,
with a small body and a big voice, who, despite a
certain bumptiousness of manner, is pretty popu-
lar with his brother members. The only other
Jew in the Assembly is Sudden Solomon, who
acts as Whip to the Opposition.
The Deakin Government last week intro-
duced a Bill to give N.S.W. an extra member, the
measure providing for a readjustment of member-
ship, according to population, every fifth year.
And after all the denunciation of the Sydney
Foreign-trade press and of N.S.W. Foreign-trade
politicians about the delay over this matter, the
first trouble was to suppress Joseph Cook, ol
N.S.W., who wanted the matter postponed.
A certain Lord Avebury, addressing some
remarkable English combination called the Indus-
trial Freedom League, recently told it that, m
Australia the Melbourne Atmos tells us that the
State servants already constitute a clear majority
of the names on the electors’ roll.” On the whole,
it sounds very like the sort of thing that the
Argus would be likely to tell. This writer didn t
see it in the Argus, but there is a familiar ring
about it somehow.
A wail :
Wanted, at once, a measure to limit the time a man
may talk in Parliament. One day, lately, the House of
Reps, was doomed to inaction while .Joe Cook drivelled
for hour after hour on nothing- in particular. Simul-
taneously, another Joe held up N.S.W. State Assembly
for 31 hours while he expounded his views on locomotives,
and his followers were reduced to coma in their efforts to
keep a quorum. If Democracy won t go the whole
hog of a time limit at once, a Bill to silence persons
named Joseph might be introduced as a beginning.
Arthur Griffith has a valuable Bill before
N.S.W. Parliament which seeks to enact that a
deceased person’s estate is liable for the mainten-
ance of the sorrowing widow or widower. A man
may not disinherit his wife, nor a woman her hus-
baud. Despite any will made, the surviving life
partner is to have an interest equal to what he, or
she, would have if the deceased had died intestate.
But a court may refuse the benefit of the Act to
any person whose conduct or character is bad.
The annual pow-wow of the Women’s
National League, held last week in Melbourne,
evolved a brilliant discovery—that Premier Lent s
Motor Oar Bill, “ is a specimen of the dangerous
trend of existing Socialistic legislation.’ the
phraseology seems somewhat familiar, but fancy
calling a trifling Bill for registering and regulat-
ing motors, so that they can be traced when they
run over old women, all those hard names ! 1 re-
sumably the dog*-license is also a specimen of the
dangerous trend, &c.
In Maoriland, where they have got into
the habit of doing things, the Government has
already purchased, and cut up for closer settle-
ment purposes, 136 estates containing 7 16,224
acres, and three more estates (180,087 acres)
have been bought but not yet taken over.
Maoriland finds land for the people and so
gets agricultural immigrants ; it finds work for the
people by building up its industries under Protec-
tion, and so gets artisan immigrants. It is a
simple idea, but it appears to answer.
S.A. will probably be the first State of the
Commonwealth to abolish the insidious cigarette.
Tucker, M.P., has a Bill before the Assembly
to prohibit the manufacture and sale of cigar
ettes, cigarette tobacco, and cigarette paper
within the territory colloquially known as
“South Oas.” Proposed penalty is £2O on farst
conviction, and on second conviction not less than
£2O and not more than £lOO. The second reading
of Tucker’s great moral effort is due on Septem-
ber 20.
Melbourne Board of Works gives a hint
of what might be done with those miles of rich
Werribee and Keilor Plains under the disruptive
influence of a graduated land-tax, and of the popu-
lation they might be made to support. In the
last six years, on 3000 acres, the Board has made
£40,161 profit by fattening sheep and cattle-over
£2 per acre per annum. Which means that a
family might easily be settled on every 200 acies
or so,' instead of the land carrying, as at present,
one boundary-rider to a good many miles.
A cable • . , .
Drives arranged along the Witwatersrand by the
Transvaal constabulary have resulted in the recovery
of 300 Chinese coolies, who had deserted from the mines.
There is no slavery in S’Africa under the British
flag But when the coolies escape from the mines
“drives” are instituted for their recovery In
Australia we have hare drives and cattle drives
and kangaroo drives. So far no coolie drives.
They will come if ever the Tory is able to break
up the principle of a White Australia.
The greedy landowner again ! Of late
years the waters of Lake Terang (Vic.) have been
steadily receding, and the local park trustees, who
control the puddle, now want to plant trees
and form a drive around this strip, but the
adjacent soil-owners claim the belt, and sav that
even if the whole blessed lake dries up the bed
thereof is theirs right to its centre. They put
their claim before Minister Murray during Show
week, and that weak individual promised to try
and arrange an amicable settlement, instead of
rushing them through the door in a violent hurry.
From the Evening Journal, the evening
squeak of the Tory Adelaide Register
In parts of Australia, where the average rainfall is not
more than 10in., a square mile of land will support only
eight or nine sheep,
A fine Stinking Fish yarn. There is no country in
Australia with a lOin. rainfall where 80 acres are
required to feed one sheep. Land with an average
rainfall of lOin. might easily run one sheep to
three or four acres. When Australian papers pub-
lish such lies about their own country, can it be
wondered that the London sheets do likewise ?
The tram lines which the Qwe’Sullivan
dotted over N.S.W., when the Labor party was
encouraging him to go ahead with permanent and
reproductive works that would pay. interest and
1 per cent, over for sinking fund, must make that
party blush, if it has a blush about it. The Manly
line was one of those investments; in the
last 12 months it earned a whole £463,
which would have returned 3| per cent, if
the employees hadn’t to be paid or the
horses fed,"or axle grease bought. As it was,
working expenses took all the revenue, and 58 per
cent. over. The Parramatta to Baulkham Hills line,
another of them, didn’t pay working expenses,
let alone Cohen’s interest or the Labor party’s
sinking fund ; and there are more in the same
list. In fact, it doesn’t look as though there is
one Owe’See line that isn’t in the list.
AT THE STREET CORNER.
If any persons decry the materlal advantages and the great resonres of Australia, and its capacty for
wealth production, we have not heard of them and it would be well for Mr. Forrest to point them out for
pablie reprobation,- Melbourne ARGUS.
THE OLD ONE (to her pals): “Hof course , here’s nothin’, I'ates more than scandal, y' know
that. But did you ’ear about that hawful a fair, &c., &c.
Even on such an absolutely formal arid
unimportant matter as Prime Minister Deakms
motion that M'Lean, M.H.R., should be allowed,
at his own request, to resign from a Committee
Mr. Joseph Cook asked for a postponement of the
debate. , „ , „
Mr. Dbakin : “ It’s only formal.
Mr. Joseph Cook : “ It’s not formal. „
Mr. Dkakin : “ I am doing- it at Mr. M Lean s request.
Mr Joseph Cook : “ This is an important matter. It
affects the whole House.” He went on to protest against
the Government pushing this through without giving an
opportunity of debate, &c., &c. _
The litter impossibility of doing anything without
Mr .Joseph Cook starting a debate threatens to
paralyse all government in Australia. Ihe sup-
pression of J. Cook must come. Australia is of
more importance than .1. Cook.
Simon Fraser, the boss Orangeman of Vic-
toria, gave some valuable information to a Womens
League meeting, the other night. Simon warned
his hearers against putting their trust m bocialists
and so forth, but he exhorted them to have a
mighty fine regard for Australia s past and pre-
sent, and a solid faith in its future. As an anti-
Stinking Fish party old man J raser is able to
speak feelingly re the comparisons drawn between
this country and Canada. He was born in Canada.
He knows all about its soils, its snows and its
frost-bites. And apropos the agricultural position,
he remarked that, whereas Australia loses millions
of sheep and cattle through droughts, the trouble
with Canada is that stock don’t get born there in
any considerable numbers.
S M. Herald, the other day, spoke m
great praise of the benefit the Canadian Pacific
Kailway had conferred on Canada m binding that
disjointed bit of the map together, and giving it
nationality, and s -ttlement, and various other
desirable things. Then, almost m the same breath,
it denounced the extravagant ideas of the federal
Legislature in dreaming of a similar railway across
Australia. The whole difference, of course, is that
the C.P.R. is a company concern ; the Australian
Transcontinental would be a national concern.
So it seems that, after all, dividends for ‘ 1 rivate
Enterprise ” are really of much more consequence
than nationality and settlement and the rest. In
fact, without dividends all the other things are
vanity.
The N.S.W. Electoral Bill, introduced by
the Carruthers Government, proposes that the
State should straggle back to the old idea ot re-
quiring a £25 deposit from Parliamentary candi-
dates. " If nobody, save a person with £25 to
spare, had been eligible when the Apostles were
heiuo- elected, the only visible candidates would
have° been Pontius Pilate, Judas, Barrabas and
Herod Antipas—unless Joseph of Arimathea
and Moreover, the dog that licked Lazarus, had a
few pounds about them. In any case, what is to
he gained by the deposit system ? .Nobody asked
Carruthers for a deposit when lie began to show
signs of aiming at the Premiership.
Broughton’s Amending Bread Bill, before
NSW Legislative Assembly, proposes to substi-
tute a bulk penalty on conviction for short weight
instead of ss. per oz. of short weight, as under
the present law. The bill fixes a minimum of £5
and a maximum of £2O. It would pay many a
baker to risk things on the £5 basis, as he might
run half a year without being caught. When the
nresent Act was passed an excited Tory rose to
point out that if - a baker sold a lib. loaf that was
Ifioz. short in the weight he could be fined £4,
and it is a pity to disturb an Act which deals so
effectively with the man whose lib. loat is lboz.
short.
“Fifty years ago,” said Burgoyne, ML. A.
(of South Australia), “when the first Legislative
Council was elected, I had a vote for it though i
only occupied a three-roomed cottage. Kents
were high in S.A. when the £25. annual rental
franchise for the Council was devised, and almost
every occupier of a three-roomed cottage, and
many occupiers of two-roomed cottages, had a,
vote Then rents dropped. The two-roomed
people were all disfranchised. The three-roomed
people next lost their votes. Then the four-
roomed people began to be shut out. Ihe foolish
old franchise kept narrowing all the time. Vet
this shifty arrangement is defended by Conserva-
tives, who say they want to keep things steady.
Always being alleged by the Tories that
Australia has no claim to keep the Northern .ter-
ritory from the Asiatics, because ‘ it does not
effectively occupy ” that part Suppose the same
argument were applied to Ireland, which isn t
effectively occupied by the British now—as shown
by the dwindling population ? Or suppose it were
applied to the county of Sutherland (Scotland),
with its population of 10 per square mile .
The N.S. W. Liquor Bill refuses compensa-
tion to dispossessed publicans, yet Premier Car-
ruthers has consented to place upon the Estimates
£7OO to recoup the Bathurst Race Club for the loss of
its racecourse. In a recent speech Joey denounced
both the publican brotherhood and the racing
fraternity as ruinous to the public. W here does
Joey’s consistency come in? _ The Bathurst race-
course was State land, let to the club for no fixed
term. The club took all the risk of expending its
money in improvements, just as the publican does
on his hotel, and the Moses business receives com-
pensation while the beer business gets none.
Australia has, all told, 36,000 rifles (which
cost £l4o,ooo— and many of the rifles aresaidto
be of dubious value), though it spends £550,000 a
year on defence. If the object of the military
system is really defence, it would be good policy-
if that were the only way to get rifles—to disband
all the forces for a year, and devote whole
defence sum to the foundation of a factory to turn
out 100,000 rifles. With the rifles in the country
and the means of making fresh ones, the inhabi-
tants could at least put up a guerilla fight.
Without the rifles thev must knuckle down to any
white, brown or yellow person that may effect a
landing in respectable force. Bricks and bottles
are of no use in modern warfare.
Even the British Australasian, which
is supposed to give English people expert and
reliable information about Australia, re hashes
this old falsehood :
Australia has learned many lessons from America.
There is vet another to be learned. With open ar ms the
great Republic welcomes the white immigrant oj any race.
The great Republic commenced shutting out the
undesirable white immigrant about 12 years before
Australia did, and Australia’s immigration re-
striction laws are only a pale reflection of those
of the U.S. Yet the earth is trodden flat by the
hoofs of ignorant fools who tell the twaddlesome
old tale quoted above until the repetition is more
numerous than the figure of the Beast in Revela-
tion.
Hot times prevailed in Maoriland Parlia-
ment at August end, when long sittings had had
their usual effect on members’ tempers On
August 31 the trouble pot overboiled, and Matilda
Bedford rose in her five-footed wrath and said
things to Seddon, for which she was removed from
the Chamber. Next Wi Pere, a Maori member,
spoke in indignation, and expressed his desire to
fio-ht a pitched battle with the Parliamentary
myrmidons. Wi Pere had 2000 Maori braves at
his back, and with them he was willing to skirmish
with anything Seddon brought along personally or
by proxy. Then remembrance of British inter-
vention surged through Wi Peres memory and
he stipulated that Seddon must undertake
not to import soldiers to help him. All these
observations were faithfully done into English }
a red-haired interpreter, but when Wi Pere ex-
pressed a desire to see Seddon sizzling on hell s
hob the interpreter’s tongue failed him. I hen
one of the infuriated Maori’s waving arms
smote severely on the interpreter’s nose ; and the
offices of sundry messengers and members were
needed to prevent Wi from running amok in the
place of bunkum.


THE CALLAGHAN
i -
BOOT FOR MEN
Black French Calf, 22/6
Tan Willow Calf, 23/6
~ POST FREE
including West Australia,
Black, 23/6
Tan, 24/6
r
■
, 1
i.
■
:
■■
i liil WBm
>
f
■f I
It takes something
besides a piece of
leather and a few
stitches to make a
GOOD BOOT.-
The Callaghan
Boots are Started
Right, beginning
with the most care-
ful preparation of
the leather before
their manufacture
on the latest im-
proved machines by
the most skilled
workmen.
The Lasts are constantly modern-
ised as Fashion dictates.
For over 50 years the Callaghan
Boot for Men has held the highest
place in public opinion
That position is still maintained.
Send Postal Order
for One Pair.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St., Sydney.
Our ILusfrated Style-Book sent Post Free for asking*
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Harry Morant
His ’Ventures
and Veises.
Price 1/1
Post
Free.
V
By FRANK RBNAR.
V
Dunlop & Co., Sydney
A y A Exhibition of Australian
#!■ Ilafta Manufactures $ Products
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS, SYDNEY, DECEMBER, 1905.
Australian Made Goods, by Australian Workmenj
for Australian People.
For particulars apply to the Organising Secretary, A. Me GUI Ft 134 Pitt Street,
. Sydney.
e ephone 1499. /V 7. A. MARTS*, Goner ai Secretary.
m
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St. Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS
A WORD TO
the wise is better than a wink to a
blind horse any day. You can per-
suade a wise man if your argument’s
good, but a blind horse can’t see the
point.
THE WISE
man is he who makes use of the best
material available for his purpose.
The best Roofing for your purrose is
Malthoid Roofing. Send lor booklet.
“ ,fl4 18 not seem, y« d 0 14 not : »>* is not true, speak it not. '’-Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Aust. Rep.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. S. FRIEND & CO., Sydney, N.S.W. JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
Wellington, N.Z. WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W A.
Adelaide, S.A. G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N Z*
Townsville, Q. EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.z!
Launceston, Tas. JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic'
THOMPSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTd'., Brisbane, Q.
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
-“'■a
Waltham
Watches
Better than ever—
the best watches in
the world. Behind
them are half a
century of high
reputation and a
strong guarantee,
good for all time.
The “ LIFE ” WATCH
The nearest instrument in Horology to per-
petual motion yet invented.
The PitICE IS 255. POST FREE.
Cent’s Cun Metal Cases.
We guarantee them for a lifetime and keep
them in order for five years without charge
(breakages excepted).
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
WALTHAM WATC I EXPERT,
96 King StSidney*
m
m
6
. «
m
m
m
WILL ANDRADE
FOR
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is : post Is
3d. LOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hardcovers, im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donkllv’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and ail Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.’
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels. 6d each’
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. M fadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Roccaccio. Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with ful directions, ts; posted 1/3.
No
4
x/t
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring 1 Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—300: s for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Malonev, 6d, post Bd.
God and Mv Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Siianty Entertainment, Is.
Bothnkr’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk,'2 tli
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over ini
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappiio,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.’
Midwives’ Handpook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats,ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is6d. Stolen Sweets, is (id
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d’
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 16s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingkrsoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts. Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend. I>v Dr
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush’-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is -?d
Self Instructor., Is.
and any boor you want.
Above prices include postage to anv address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
StaiSMBS? ta,?n "aiC W M,il J® E '? ition V F "S D»I. with breedi,*
how tno|
breaking*
them and
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
ME BALLET GIRL
m
Her Theatrical and
Domestio History.
Post Frts, It
Ths Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a.
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Pott Frat, la.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Uafs.
L~.L~.ISB
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond,
enoe.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-58 Elizabeth Street.
CUEENSL.iMD BRANCH—
Colonial Mutual Building - ,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building - , Perth..
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT’
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might he improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER I
IT COSTS NOTHING TO>
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write -for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney-
Sole Australian Agent


Dreadful Sores
Yield to the Marvellous Blood-Purifying
Properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
No person can be afflicted with a greater mis-
fortune than having a running sore that will not
yield to ordinary treatment. The sore may
originally be caused by accident ■or otherwise,
but if it does not heal it is because the blood is
impure. The foul humors, instead of being
carried away through the regular channels, burst
through the skin, causing suffering and humilia-
tion. The case published below is that ot Mr.
Henry Bramble, of North Broken Hill, who met
with a serious accident, causing a wound that
would not yield to either internal or external
remedies, and which nearly cost lnm Jus me.
“Nearly eight years ago,” says Mr. Bramble,
“ when working on the New Chum Consolidated
Gold Mine, Bendigo, Victoria, a rock-drilling
machine fell on me, making a large wound in m
back, exposing the kidneys. After twelve wee
in bed two doctors operated on me, and then it
was eighteen months before I was able to wort,
the wound refusing to close. In spite ot all t e
medicines I took internally, the oils and ointments
used externally, the wound never closed up, ana
I had to go to work with a large towel tied round
my middle. For the past four years I have been
employed on Broken Hill mines, with the wound
still refusing to heal, until nine months ago, when
I started using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills with
great results. They improved _my blood so
rapidly that the wound healed quickly, and now
it quite closed, only leaving a large scar, i
thoroughly believe that the Pills are the sole
cause of my cure, and can honestly recommend
them.” Mrs. Bramble endorses everything her
husband says about the Pills.*
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment)
TTia Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. Ho Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
A.J.C. Epsom Handicap was a complete boil-
over, all the cracks being beaten right out. Sleeper, an
alleged commoner, was well backed by a few' people, but
in general was not considered class enough for the com-
pany ; and Rosemead and Truce, about either of which
50 to 1 w’as available, filled the other places. Sleeper got
away w'ell at the first, and remained in front from the
end of the first furlong to the finish. Maniopoto s
miserable failure is beyond human comprehension.
Sleeper is an aged moke that has always been a last
galloper when wanted.
***■*■
Maoriland owner G. G. Stead was determined
there should be no mistake about the Derby, and his Sun
God w’ent out from the first and made the pace a hurri-
cane all the wav, with the same owner’s Noctuiform run-
ning close ready to come with a rush and cut down any-
tliino- that showed its heels to Sun God. At the St. Legei,
Noctuiform put on full power, and going past the pace-
maker won easily by eight lengths. It was a beautiful
race, and the time (2min. 32Jsec.) is a recoid.^
Metropolitan Day at Randwick saw Maoriland
horses make a clean sweep of the programme-an event
for which there is no parallel in Australasian turf history.
The Shorts went to Price’s Machine Gun. Mr. Stead had
only three horses present, and every one of them won a
race, Isolt taking the Spring Maiden Stakes Sun God the
New' Stakes, and Nightfall the Squatters Handicap ; and
Good’s Maniopoto won the Metrop. with ridiculous ease.
All this on top of Noctuiform and Sun God first and
second in the Derby. Also, there are fears that the end is
not yet. , *
* * *
Maniopoto’s win of the Metrop. staggered the
public, but the fact that he was backed from 50’s down to
15 to 1, and that the bulk of the money went into the
pockets of a comparative few', proves that the boil-over
was expected by somebody. The nag s showing in the
Epsom the previous Saturday suggested that he had not
done enough practice, but the suggestion that the severe
gallop ” in the Epsom brought him right up to
form 1 is a theory to be scoffed at Of the 31 left in
when this paper went to press last week only
started. Maniopoto went to the front early, but was
displaced by Fashoda, who led till near the turn for
home. Then the great Maoriland galloper went past with
a bound and streaked down the straight clear of eany-
thing. The pace increased as he flew' along, and he
passed the post seven lengths to the good, in tune that
equals the new record made by Noctuiform in the Dei by
on Saturday. What Maniopoto would have done had he
been pushed is hard to say. Warroo and Famous were
second and third, and a completely demoralised held
struggled home at irregular intervals.
Consider the running of Maoriland horse Manio-
poto in the Epsom and Metropolitan. On Saturday in
the Mile handicap, with Bst. 41b. up, he finished some-
where about eighth, and the winner’s time was limn.
39sec. On Monday, in the Metropolitan Stakes, Manio-
poto, with 41b. less weight, went to the front at the three
furlongs, and stayed there till the 1| miles had been
traversed in 2min. 34isec. In the Epsom the price was
7to 2 against; in the Metropolitan they were offering
16 to 1 against the brown Maorilander. Now what the
deuce was wrong with Maniopoto on Saturday or did the
extra 41b. really make all that difference in the shorter
race? * , * *
Maniopoto’s astounding reversal of form in the
Metropolitan is not altogether without precedent.
Reviver shared favoritism with Dandy in the 1900 Epsom,
and was badlv beaten. Next day he won the Metropoli-
tan after starting at 50 to 1. Marvel Loch carried ™
enormous swag of money in the Epsom of 1903, but shaped
so badly that 100 to 1 was laid freely against her when
she romped home in the Metrop. In fact, reversal of
form in connection with the Epsom and Metrop. is a v c
that needs drastic treatment.
* * * *
The liberality of the tote. Blue Rock (second
in S A.J.C.’s Camden Steeple, t’other day) would have
paid £245 for every £1 speculated had he won, and the
machine odds were £lOOO to £1 against Sedan, who ran
fourth in Morphettville Plate. The Noses would hardly
lay that against a ’bus horse straight from the shafts.
How much a Tattersall’s sweep on a race
means to a Sydney suburban club is evidenced by the fact
that 52 entries have been received for the Demonstration
Handicap, to be run at Canterbury Park on Eight Hour
Day. The prize is only £lso—£so of which goes to secon
and third—and yet many high-class nags have been
nominated. Usually about half a dozen or so line up for
the principal event. Number of starters, of co . ur ®?; d , e 0
pends on 1 how many owners get the expected bit to
nothing. # •
The interesting Emir seems to be a thoroughly
consistent performer as regards his temper. A rebel,
rather than a rogue, the big fellovv invariably shows
temper on the course—either at the post oi in the race,
or all the time. *
* * *
“ O.” : How absurd is the system of tipping win-
ners adopted by most papers with a sporting department.
Take for instance Melbourne Australasian. When the
weights aJ e issued for any big race both the chief tipster
and his understudy review the list, giving a good " ord to
nearly every horse, and winding up by each selecting
from y a dozen to a score as likely winners. Similar
processes occur after each acceptance, and the final
selection ” of one man usually consists in naming about
fifteen hdrses he has a liking for, and then saying .
“ Finally, my choice will rest with—
Hippomenes or Atalanta .. 1
Hot-and-Floury .. •• 2
Pre-Raphaelite or Stodge .. 3
Racoon 4 ,
Bandicoot and Little Buttercup are good outsiders. In
another column the other man seleets his eight oi ten If
any one of the numerous horses named fromUime> time
as possibilities manages to scrape home, it is a triumph
of tinning.’h But to the puzzled public the wonder is
that? in so many attempts, the propheits*so
to miss the winner. I would suggest that all oi tnem re
place the usual introduction to their forecasts with some
such formula as this—“ As far as we know, all the horses
engaged in Saturdav’s races have excellent chances. The
following names were the first picked out of a hat wherein
the entries were jumbled. We are determined that no
expense shall be spared in thus acquiring exclusive in-
formation for our readers.”
* * * *
Bookmaker Jack Wren, who runs the OoUing-
wood Tote under police sufferance was advertised in the
Melbourne press as a contributor of £5 to the local Polme
Charities Carnival Fund. If tda . fc . thenolice it
the whole of Wren’s annual contribution to the police it
would be a very poor return for the hcence he enjoj .
But he has many ways of ingratiating himself * the
law’norder brigade. One of his handsomest tips to
the Foorce last year was his horse Murmur for the Caul-
field Cup An Irish policeman, standing near the winning
post when Murmur did the trick, jubilated with great
candor—“Shure it was a good tiling, sez he . Jack
Wren told us it couldn’t lose.” A morose bystander, who
evidently hadn’t backed Murmur, offered the cynical sug-
gestion that the Tote man was a blanky fine law-
breaker.” “He is so, an’ I’m a moighty fine jaw-breaker,
said the joyful policeman in a tone of sternl authoiity. It
isn’t safe to speak disrespectfully of the King of Col mg-
wood within the hearing of the police. #
There is more bookmaker to the square mile in
Westralia than any otherpart of the Commonwealth. The
Tre six racing clubs within a radius of a dozen miles of
Perth there six more in agricultural villages along
The Southern fine, and every town and mining camp on
I The^ < tote < is^everyvvhere^i > n l full C blast. et One of the
sensible magistrate remarked that the bookie could earn
a couple of pounds a week by cracking road metal for tne
City Council and advised him to take a spell at it, ana
made an order for payment of regular instalments, or
seven days gaol.
* * * *
Last week a streak of blue sky showed in the
gloom that has hung over the tour of the Australian
Rugby XV. in Maoriland, when a combined team repre-
senting Manawatu, Ninety Mile Bush, and Ilawkes Bay
was comfortably beaten by seven to three. But none of
the three districts represented are strong in a footballing
sense of the word. Then there was another streak.
Taranaki and Wanganui are cow-walloping districts, and
the sturdy yeoman of the small farm flourishes there ;
the district has a great football history, and there was a
time when Taranaki could wipe the floor with any team it
met. Only a fortnight ago the district had defeated
Auckland, which had previously beaten Wellington for
the Ranfurlv shield, and it was at Wellington that the
Australians did that great downfall, 23 to 7, when they
first landed in Pig Island. Yet on Saturday, the Aus-
tralians met the formidable Taranaki-Wanganui crowd at
Havvera, the centre of the cow-walloping districts, and to
the stupefaction of everybody the Maorilanders were
beaten by 18 tb 13. The first half ended with the
district team leading bv seven to four. But, to the sur-
prise of all, the Austral back division came away with a
series of fine passing charges, and brought the score up to
10 all The Taranakis felt dazed, the Austral forwards
smothered beautifully, and the struggling cow-men were
unable to get their back division going. Right through
the tour the Austral scrum work has been decidedly good,
and at Hawera it was better than usual, with the result
that the backs got plenty of opportunities, and put the
score five points ahead of that of the Taranakis. Then
over-eagerness on the part of the forwards the Maoii-
penalty kick, from which they managed to score,
and the Austral lead was narrowed down to two. Finally,
just on the stroke of time, the Australians hurled them-
selves on the Maorilanders’ line and Colton struggled
across, and although the shot at goal failed, the 'match
was won by 18 to 13.
* * * ♦
Saturday was a day of surprises in Sydney
Rugby. To begin with, South Sydney's paladins
only just managed, by the skin of their teeth, to avoid
defeat bv the hill-climbers from North Sydney, the game
beinv won by five to three. The Northern forwards put
up a”fine struggle, and the men from the sandhills looked
stale off-color and depressed. Had the Northern backs
only come with a few good passing rushes, South was
beaten. That was startling enough, and South’s position
in the premiership made it most important, but the sen-.
sational match of the day was that between Balmain and i
University. When the despised Balmain bucked up
to such an extent as to beat University, the;
barracker was struck dumb, and when he recovered the
power of speech he inquired dazedly if visions were about.
Glebe, with its head down and its tail up, charged oyer,
and through Sydney like a team of bulls, heating the City;
by 17 to nil. ‘ Newtown, as expected, crushed Western;
Suburbs by 10 to 3. Unless something startling happens;
to South Sydney in the match with Balmain next Satur-
day South will'have won the championship. If Balmain
can’do the unexpected, and Glebe only scores a draw with
Newtown, there'll be a lovely match between the two,
leading clubs to settle the supremacy.
The struggle for the Gardiner Cup by the lead-
ing Soccer teams of Sydney is now in its semi-final stage,
and on Saturday Balmain got a leg in by defeating Glebe
—two goals to nil. On Saturday next Pyrmont ant)
Rozelle will decide which of them will meet Balmain in
the final. „
* * * *
As none of Saturday’s games could alter the
positions of the clubs in the Vic. League—the results of
the previous week’s play made a certainty of Colling-
wood Fitzroy, Carlton and Essendon fighting out the
semi-finals—little interest was taken in the arguments ;
nevertheless, glorious weather tempted fair-sized crowds
out to see if the beaten clubs, playing their last game
this season, could buck up for a fierce, final kick. But
not one bucked worth a cent. South, which once had
hopes of getting into the final, was romped over by Wood,
whose continuous pot-shots at the goal-posts became mono-
tonous the score at the finish being 118 points to 40.
Carlton made an even worse exhibition of Melbourne-
-125 points to 38 ; while ’Roy ran over Essendon, notching
80 points to 37. These two meet again next Saturday m
the semi-final, when the scores are likely to be a good deal
less lop-sided. In the Association, North, Richmond,
Wiiliamstown and Ports are the four to play off—the baby
club, West Melbourne, having just failed to get into the
semi. The incompetent Preston men went down to
Footscray by 55 points to eight.
* * * *
“B.B.”: The winning of the Great Public
Schools football premiership by St. Joseph’s College two
years running has made the Rawson Cup the absolute
property of the College. Fortunately Viking Harry is re-
turning, and will, no doubt, replace the bauble. If he
doesn’t it is just possible the haughty collegians may
have to accept a cup from a mere Australian—which would
be a fearful thing for boys whose ambition is to some day
gain honors at Eton or Harrow.
Fatal accidents happen at Rugby when the play
is as mild as milk. Footballer Bailey, who was knocked
out in the Otago-Southland match, and died subse-
quently, blamed nobody. And nobody noticed how the
affair happened. „ * *
In spite of drizzling rain, Adelaide emptied
into the Oval to watch the final game of the Premiership
struggle between North Adelaide and the Port clubs.
With the exception of one draw and one defeat North
had won right through the season, and the Port had nary
a hope, scoring only one goal and six behinds, while the
North had six goals and eight behinds.
* * * *
“Hamer”: I met the Bashville football team
the other day. They opened the game with their battle-
crv “Yah, Gi’sabumper, Ooyah, Ooyah, Gissamatch,
Ooyah, Ooyah, Stoush’im, Brain’im, Ooyah Ooyah, yah !
which is unique in its way. I didn t stay long. The
sphere flew my way. Behind it came a rushing wall of
big feet and iron jaws and wooden countenances, and I
ran for the Zoological Gardens to shake hands with the
monkey. + * * *
The World’s Cycle Championship meeting at
Antwerp did not provide any laurels for Australian rider
Georjre Farley, whose best exploit was to run second in
some non-championship 10kilometi e race. In the \V orld s
Sprint Championship contest he was outed in one of the
preliminary heats. So was Butt, but that handsonie
Teuton got into the final through winning the loser s
heat The final was really a contest between Ellegaard
of Denmark, Mayer of Germany and Poulain of trance
As usual, it was a dead slow crawl and a wild rush at the
finish, in which Poulain beat Ellegaard by half a wheel,
with Mayer close up third. Evidently, as was suspected
while he was in Australia, Ellegaard is not the marvellous
sprinter he was when he won the world s championship
three times running, yet he is not a back number, as was
argued by some Australian wheelers.
The 100 kilometre (62 1-10 miles) paced profes-
sional championship went to U.S.A. per medium of R.
Walthour, who got over it in Ihr. 18min. 54sec. The
world’s motor cycle championship went, unexpectedly,
to Italy, being won by Anzani, a well-known crack
. * * *
Odors of fish are already rising from the pro-
fessional cycling quarters, and G. Ilorder and O. H. Brook
were disqualified for teaming at the Australasian ten-
mile championship at Sydney Cricket Ground week before
last This hit both gentlemen where they lived, and kept
them out of the Austral 50-miles championship contest
over the Parramatta-Kingswood road on Saturday. Brook
was the holder of the title, but, owing to the mark of the
beast, could not defend it. Thirty-one started, and five
finished in a hunch, with R. Arnst, the Maonlander, right
in the forefront. The dust-covered road was very severe
on the machines and made fast travelling almost lmpos-
' gjbie However, there was only one smash ; Goodwin,
the Eskbank man, broke his front fork, and in falling he
brought down Farley, who badly hashed his elbow. The
time, 2hr. 58min. 33see., is not fast for the distance, but
it was fast considering the state of the road.
* * - *
There are 100 acceptors for the Dunlop Goul-
burn-Sydney cycle road race on this coming Saturday.
Svdnev has now two schools of motoring, where
the young idea is taught how to make the flying car jump
over the dog that did and the cow that wouldn t.
The first automobilist to nominate for the
Dunlop Melbourne-Sydne.v Reliability Test, was Captain
Pursey Chirnside, who will drive a '5 h.p. Panhard.
Brighton, England, has just treated itself to the
luxury of an automobile straightaway racing track along
its esplanade. The length is 1J miles, and the surface is
composed of a substance known as tarmac, which is,
presumably, a sort of asphalt. Anyhow, some amazing
times have been put up, and the wrecks of the world s
records were scattered all round. A distance of 1 kilo-
metre (1093 yards) was covered in 2Gsec. by a motor
bicycle weighing less than 1101 b. This awful speed was
equal to 86 miles an hour, and made a new world s record.
The flying mile was done in new time, 40 l-ssee.
The mile from a standing start was reduced from
64sec. to 63 l-ssec. The car speeds were also terrific .
A 6-cvlinder Napier car beat everything and did the Hying
kilometre in 23 sec., which means 97 miles an hour.
This was done by Clifford Earp, and lie drove the same
car with which McDonald made a dizzy world s record on
the wet sand of Florida Beach, when he did his kilometre
in 21 2-ssec. or 104 J miles an hour. A feature of the
Brigliton meeting was a number of kilometre races
between motor cycles and automobile cars. A lOOh.p.
Darracq with running engines got off a standing start all
in a bound and was 20yd. away before the motor cycle got
firin<>\ In 30yd. the motor bike was travelling at the
rate" of 50 miles an hour, and came up close to the
automobile, but failed to make good the 20yd. lost
through the bad start. The time was 35 4-ssec., a world s
record for the standing start kilometre. A second motor
bike autocar race was contested by a 120 h.p. Mercedes
car, but the bike won, the time being a few yards a second
less'than that of the Napier car.
* * * *
Maoriland will have 12 representatives in the
Goulburn-Sydney Dunlop race on Saturday.
F. S. Jackson undoubtedly has a charmed toss
this season. Skippering the unofficial All England
Eleven at Scarborough last week, he won the toss from
Darling for the sixth time in succession. Jackson s latest
performance against the Australians must have bee' l ®
record in A 1 cricket, the match being test in all but
name. He scored 123 out of a total of 282, and the next
highest scorer on his side was “Sundries, 28.”
The remarkable Sturt lacrosse team, the pre-
mier team of S. Australia, which has broken two w-orld’s
records, met St. Kilda, champion club of Victoria, at
Fitzroy Cricket Ground on Saturday. The Victorians had
no ghost or semblance of a hope from start to finish, and
Sturt won by nine goals to four. And St. Kilda felt that
it had done itself proud to throw four goals in such
company. * m *
A score of crack pigeon shots murdered 180
pigeons the other day in an attempt to decide who was
the champion birdicide of N.S.W. These 20 planked
down £5 each, which entitled them to compete for a gold
medal and the “ honor ” mentioned above. Neither the
token nor the pomp of being the person who did murder
most fowl would have led to £lOO being risked had not
each competitor had the chance to make a bit by backing
his gun against the unfortunate pigeon. It was a great
day for the bird-killers, and the air was full of blood and
misery and feathers.
* * * *
The fact that George Towns has put up a
deposit of £25 for another match with J. Stanbury is a
practical admission of the charge that he held his big
opponent too cheaply, and failed to prepare properly for
the recent race. Stanbury, however, does not intend to
accommodate Towns till he sees definitely what Canadian
sculler Durnan is going to do.
Ford and Artie Towns have arranged to row a
match on the Hunter River on November 11th. It is
said, but not sworn to, that the contest is for a stake of
£4OO. Stanbury is to pour wisdom into Ford, while
George Towns gives brotherly assistance to the other
fellow. In fact, there are numerous signs that sculling is
going to be a popular caper for the coming season.
* * ■* *
That match between old Peter Kemp and
ancient Bill Beach has fizzled out. Kemp was as frisky
as a two-year-old to the very last, but William got a
sudden attack of intelligence, and the thing was declared
right off. * * •»
Cabled that, at Southport (Eng.) last week, swim-
mer Keiran propelled himself over 500 yd. in 6min.—which
would, if accepted, easily lower his second world’s best
(6.7.) created a week before, but as the latest perform-
ance was in the open sea, it doesn’t count, according to
English Swimming "Association record rules, which bar
tidal waters. Still the swim was a remarkably good one.
English papers tell that in her recent Channel
efforts and Dover to Ramsgate swim, which occupied
4h 20min Miss Kellermann was fed every half hour, and
floated so high that her food was never spoilt by the
water. The fair Annette gets her buoyancy through fane
chest development and a liberal coating of fat.
* * * *
Like Belshazzar of Babylon, and M‘Ginty, and
Napoleon after Waterloo, Mr. McCall, last week champion
heavyweight pugilist of Australia, is now numbered with
the men who have gone under. He met his fate at Sydney
Gaiety Club last Saturday night, and it wore the shape
and form of Timothy Murphy, Esq., who scaled only
list. Oilb. to the late champion’s 11st. 101 b. The betting
was 5 to 2 in favor of McCall. It was a gruesome fight all
gore and violence. McCall attacked with the concentrated
fury of a school of tigers ; and Murphy, skilful of foot and
quick of fist, evaded and avoided till the vim of the
attack slackened somewhat. Then he would suddenly
shoot his left to the face of the champion, and swing his
right savagely for McCall’s left ear. From start to finish
he battered at that ear with grim persistency whfle
McCall landed where and how be could. At first the twit
seemed to belong to Murphy, but he became somewhat
demoralised as it wore on, and the pendulum swung
towards McCall. But Murphy’s recuperative powers were
astonishing, and although apparently just able to stand,
he seemed to be always capable of hitting one more blow
oil the same old ear.
McCall is a sturdy nut-brown, and compared to
him Murphy looked pale and lank. As they entered the
ring it seemed impossible for Murphy to have any chance,
so inferior in physique did he appear. As a matter of
fact the phvsical advantage was all with Murphy. He
had a longer reach than McCall, and was several inches
taller and in the scrap he used his additional length m a
truly remarkable fashion. Whenever he found himself in
difficulties he just leaned over, fell on McCall s shoulders
and breathed on him, staying there till McCa pushed
him off The number of times poor old McCall had to
tmsh off the hot, breathing mass must have been a
severe tax on his strength. Murphy’s longer reach was
deadlv, and enabled him to plug McCall on the face every
time the champion tried to close in to kill, and ever and
alwavs after the left had landed on the front of McCall s
beauty the right came at his ear..
Narrow escapes were frequent on both sides.
In the very first round Murphy rushed McCall to his
knees, and, after some heavy deliveries on both sides,
Murphy uppercut the champion on the forehead, then hit
him on the jaw, and laid him out. But for the gong.the
fi«fat would have ended then and there. The second
round saw a melee in which Murphy seemed to have
the champion at his mercy, • and he was about
to finish him when McCall made a swipe, which
landed on Murphy’s throat and nearly knocked
him down. The dazed Murphy spun round the ringjab-
bing and sparring wildly at the universe, but he recovered
before the staggering champion could finish him, and the
end of the round found McCall clinching- for safety.
Mostly when McCall clinched Murphy hit him on the hack
of the head. In the third McCall aimed a body blow and
hurled himself at the Maorilander, who promptly re-
moved himself. It was a knock-out had it landed, hut
Murphy wasn’t there, and McCall revolved on his own axis
till the floor stopped him. In the ninth round McCall
seemed so exhausted that a collapse was imminent. Put
he got through, and with a right jolt on the chin laid
Murphy out. The hell saved Murphy that time. In the
10th Murphv was down twice, and narrowly escaped
being counted out on both occasions, but when he did get
up he rushed in, and with his right sent McCall down.
Again the bell brought respite. The 11th saw Murphy
again aim for the invariable ear. He struck the jaw in-
stead, and down went McCall once more. When he rose
he was no longer champion—he had overstayed the ten
seconds. _ .
The crowd hooted Murphy for the way he lay
down on McCall’s shoulders and breathed on him. Once
he clung* so close that the referee had to get into the ril |£
and tear him away. He was as full of tricks as a land-
agent’s monkev, and McCall got the benefit of them all.
He is a Maorilander and a younger brother of the world-
famed Torpedo Billy, and lias fought in many lands, and
more than held his own in all of them. Seven years ago
he was middle-weight champion of this continent, and lie
still wears the scalps of the heavy-weight champions of
South Africa and Honolulu. He uses his feet and brains
equally well, hits like lightning, and shows excellent
judgment all the time. ,
There was a battle of big men at Mick Nathan's
hall in Melbourne on September 4, when Bill Lang, a fine
specimen of the human animal, met Pat Farley, who
looked tubby and very vulnerable by contrast. * arley,
however, is an experienced pro. and a vaunted South
African champion, and Lang a comparative novice, but it
was the latter’s fight from the first clang of the gong till
he struck his opponent a left hand punch in the bulge.
Parley fell with his face to the floor, and his various
seconds threw in their towels. The white flag was wholly
superfluous, as the South African was as limp as the
collar the cow had chewed. Farley did not seem in the
best nick, and had a sore right hand. If he meets Lang
again, his new-found respect for that person will probably
induce him to be quite well for the occasion. Meanwhile
Lang is to battle with Squires’ recent victim, Fennessey,
the biggest man at the game in Australia.
* * * *
Melbourne’s John Wren says he’s going to set
pugilism in its proper place as a show business, which is
on top of the heap. His first essay in this direction was
the Squires-Kerniek fight, at the Exhibition Budding last
Thursday, and he had bad luck with it. The- building
holds 14,000 people. John reckoneq to get 10,000, but it
rained and hailed and snowed, and he only got about
4000. The fight was mostly all Squires. He used a
heavy overarm hit that thoroughly sickened Kernick.
He opened with it in the first round,- and was only an inch
and a-half off a knock-out. In the second round he
sent Kernick down four times with this blow. The
Victorian, apparently, then received some good ad\ ice, for
in the third round he kept his right up and dodged his
head away in really clever fashion This was the only
round in which Kernick had a look in. He countered
heavily on to Squires’ face half-a-dozen tubes-
fourth round saw Squires as fit as possible, while Kermc
was a hit rattled. Squires went into it like a bull-dog,
and one of his powerft.il half-arm jolts landed flush o
Kernick’s point. Both men went down with, a crash.
Kernick’s head bounced on the floor like a fallen brick,
and he saw his lOsec. out. In this writers opinion
Squires is much the best man who has put in an
appearance in this part of the world for many a l°ng Wj
and despite all that is said about Jeffries, Squires will put
up such a fight that the American will need all his form
and skill to stay the same old Jim.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : The palmy times of English pugilis-
tics were in the first half of the nineteenth century.
Here are the dates when the most celebrated men he
the championship : Mendoza, 1792 ; Harry Pearce, the
Game Chicken, 1805; Gully (afterwards M.P.), 1808 ,
Tom Cribb, 1809 ; Tom Spring, 1824 ; Bendigo, 1839 , Ben
Caunt, 1841; Perry, the Tipton Slasher, 1850, Toni
Savers, 1857; Mace, 1861. Mace donned the boxing
gloves for a little bout in London only a few months ago.
“Jab”: Ex-champion Billy McCall was un-
lucky in his fearsome scrap with Murphy/ William really
won twice in the tenth round, through Murphy being
down too long, but timekeepers, seconds, and referee we
all off their heads and crazed with excitement He was
more unfortunate still in the final round, when he was
declared “ out,” although erect and veady to go on, and
though he had been down barely ffeec. Also on thre
different occasions Murphy dealt it out to McCall afte
the round had officially ended.
* * * -ji : - *
The Boy of the Bulldog Breed is beginning to
show up in the pugilistic ring once more, and the end o
the present year will see quite an invasion of the U.b.A.
by British bruisers after fame and n °hes—especially the
riches. In spite of all the booming of the Uncle Sam
press, boxing does not seem to be at a very high Bitch in
the States at present; and the fact is impressed bj t
now almost universal practice anionfcU
of publishing re-hashes of the gory fights of the days of
Fitzsimmons, Sullivan, Jeffries and Slavin.
* * * *
A just-returned Maoriland footballer has corro-
borated former statement that vast crowds do not, as a
rule, follow the Rugby game in England. Soccer, n C
“ rugger,” is the main attraction to the populace, m
opines that the outward-bound Maorilanders will have to
scintillate in no ordinary way to rake in a Ligdividend,
while an initial failure or two might easily make the tour
a financial ruin.


NICOLE UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records
will fit any and every disc talking machine. ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE*
NICOLEPHONES
Two Sp3cial Instruments,
“ The Colonial ” and
“The New Standard
. ID®- ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application. “Wg
IV. G. KING , Sole Agent, 316 GEORGESTSYDNEY .
A Talking machine Given Away
955. GRAMOPHONE for 455.
The Best and Strongest
Talking Machine
VERY LOUD AND CLEAR
Reproduces Songs, Recitations,
Instrumental Solos, Band
Performances,
Orchestral
Selections,
&c., See.
SEE OUR
SPECIAL OFFER
mm
With FREE
RECORDS,
and we pay
carriage.
i UNBREAKABLE
DISC RECORDS.
Thousands to Select from.
You may have one of
these Machines and
Records Free
'T'HE Gramophone is now so well known and acknowledged as the loudest, clearest and most durable talking maohine
A that nothing more need be said about its good qualities. This machine has never before been sold for less than 955.
(carriage extra), but as we now hold the exclusive right and have imported a very large number at a greatly reduced
rate, we have decided to sell them at less than half price to secure customers for our other goods, of which a 200 page
Catalogue will be sent with each machine. This offer holds gooH for only two months from the. date of this paper. If you
mention this paper when ordering and send the names and addresses of three friends to whom we may forward our
Catalogue, we will include without charge two really tip-top Records, one 7-inch and one 10-inch. We will also issue
with each Gramophone a SPECIAL OFFER by which you may have the whole of the purchase money returned to you.
Do not delay. Order at once. Send remittance by Postal Money Order or Cheque (crossed London Bank of Australia) to
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY
359 and 361 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
m
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Do you -want to know how to utilize th«> xnost
' powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you vaiue control, over others ? Do you value the
! means of securing friendship, love and personal influence? Do you value the power to conquer
' pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize* Why not? Mo other accom*
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has jus t
| issued In book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
| covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely i’lustrateo, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, end shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
| and uses of thi< mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perforin astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mmm
FIRST PRIZE
....IN TIIB
8-hour^-
ART UNION.
WHO WANTS IT?
£5OO for is.
SECOND PRIZE, value .£lOO
THIRD ~ „ JE6O
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 28th.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Early.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this pape.'
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Bo|
ill
£
DDD
1
T?OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “Ellis’ King 1 Street Coffee Palace,” “ad
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS,
TTnttrn
BE AN AD WRITER
THE PROFESSION OF AD.-WRITING.
IP you have had a common school education
you can earn big money writing ads. for
advertisers. A new profession with an un-
limited field.
LEARN TO WRITE ADVERTISEMENTS.
Send for my Booklet, “How to learn Ad.-
Writing by Mail." I am doing the largest
ad.-writing business in Australasia. I will tell
YOU how to do it.
The Miller Course of Advertising 1 Instruc-
tion by Mall, THOMAS A. MILLER, Director,
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A 11 Friend ” Owes You a Debt ?
HpHEN let us collect it for you. Nobody else can if we
* can’t. No need to employ a solicitor at tremendous
expenses. Doesn’t matter where you are or where your
‘•friend” is. Charges : If under £1 remit 6d. with'first
letter; up to £lO remit Is. This includes Letter of
Demand and full report. If we fail to collect it costs you
no more. If we do collect, we charge you only 5 per cent.
Write to-day, enclosing account for collection, to the
most successful D?ht Collectors in Australia,
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street, fydney.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice
(England) made in the Matter of the Estate of
Anne Humphry deceased and in an Action
wherein Fanny Bray (the Wife of Frederick
Bray) and Mary Ann Palmer (Wife of Herbert
James Palmer) are Plaintiffs and Ann Sarah
Box (Married Woman) is defendant 1905 H. No.
521. The persons claiming to be entitled by virtue
of or according to the Statutes of distribution of
Intestates Estates or otherwise to the Estate of
Anne Humphry deceased late of 12 Handley
Road South Hackney in the County of Middlesex
(England) who died on the 25th December 1904
living at the time of her death or to be the legal
personal represent itives of such of them as are
now dead are personally or by their Solicitors on
or before the 23rd day of November 1905 to come
in and prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr.
Justice Buckley and Mr. Justice Warrington at
the Royal Courts of Justice Strand Eondon
England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order.
Friday the Ist day of December 1905 at 12 of
the clock noon at the said Chambers (Room No.
315) is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this Fourth day of August 1905.
CHAS. HULBERT,
■MftstGr
NOTE.—The said Anne Humphry was a daughter
of Thomas Humphry and Anne Humphry, whose
maiden surname was “Dixon” (or “Dicksen”)
Thomas Humphry was a native of Beckington
near Frome Somerset England. He is said to
have had two brothers and three sisters viz :
William, Michael, Jane, Winifred and Mary.
The said Michael and Winifred Humphry
both emigrated to Australia many years ago, they
would (if living) be aged about 91 years and 89
years respectively and entitled as next of kin. It
it not known whether the said Michael and
Winifred ever married but if they did their
children (if any) living on the 25th December
1904 would (if both the said Michael and
Winifred should then be dead) be entitled as
next of kin.
Anne Humphry, formerly Anne Dixon, the
mother of the above named Anne Humphry was
a native of Farleigh Hungerford, Somerset, Eng-
land, she is said to have had three brothers and
six sisters viz James, Thomas, Richard, Betty,
Sarah, Maria, Jane, Eliza and Mary.
SYRETT & SONS, Solicitors of
45 Finsbury Pavement,
London, England.
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Government Advertisement.
Postmaster-General’s Department,
4th September, 1905.
TENDERS will be received by the Deputy
Postmaster-General, Sydney, until noon on
Monday, the 2nd proximo, for the performance of a
large number of Mail Services. For full particulars
see “ Commonwealth Gazette ” of the 2nd instant
AUSTIN CHAPMAN,
Postmaster-General.
A POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd; Posted, Sd.
E. T. WALSH
PRACTICAL TAILOR
EXPERT CUTTER
NEW SPRING SUITINGS.
Stylish Patterns .
m
Samples, Measure Forms and
Fashion Plates sent Anywhere.
A3T Experienced Cutter from Bond-street, London, employed.
THE LARGEST HIGH-CLASS TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
NO FACTORY WORK.
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
8
DS BAGSHAWS
VITAL FORCE TABLETS
THE BEST
NERVE
TON
IN THE
WORLD
m
m
0
Jb-
&
%
% f
EASY T0 X
CARRY
2/-
Per Box
EASY TO TAKE
of 50 TABLETS.
ATALLCHEMISTS.
OR POST PAID f=ROM
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG C? SYDNEY:
JL
VeryOldVatteA
LiqueurWiiisky.
Distilled&Bottled by
'em
CL
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
To Mine Managers, Engineers, &c.
1 ❖ 1... IV 1
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
is more efficient than
leather belting for Out-
door and Wet Work.
Its advantages are as follows! ■
It wears longer. It is more uniform In'
width and thickness. It can be used in
damp places where other belts would rot.
Its original cost is less.
Made any length (endless if desired);
and ply, up to 60 inches wide.
Quality and Workmanship Guaranteed,
SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION,
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO
OF AUST. LTD..
108 Flinders St.. Melbourne: 150 Ctnrenee
St.. Sydney: It? Grenfell St., Adelaide:
268-270 Adelaide St., Brisbane ; 617 Hay
St.. Perth; 128 Lichfield St.. Christchurch.
N.Z.
Don’t forget that by purchasing “ DUNLOP ” GOODS you keep your
mfitjey in this country—which is to your own benefit indirectly.
It seems possible to hoax any Australasian
daily paper With a block of gibberish* provided it
is put together speciously enough. Lyttelton
Times (M. L. ) gravely printed this on liquid air
Liquid air is no new factor in chemical science. Iti the
year 1878, when the writer was a studeht at the tlhiver-
sity of Nancy, Professors Sansverite and Titejambe [surely
these names should have held a finger up in warning !]
conducted a series of experiments before us enraptured
students that were at least remarkable. The situation of
Nancy, being, as it is, on the shore of the Gulf of Lyons,
is specially favorable for experiments with liquid air,
owing to the remarkable presence of oxygen, nitrogen
and hydrogen, and the absence of pliocene elements,
unfavorable to such experiments. I had the honor to be
present at some of these experiments by MM. Sansverite
and Tirejambe, and their modus operandi was unique.
An efuscated [what about the obfuscated editor ?J glass
tube, containing the air, which had been compressed into
it by hydraulic pressure, by means of the Coquelin
method, was first heated to white heat, then allowed to
cool slowly in a solution of chloride of sodium and water.
When it was perfectly cold, the tube and contents were
submitted to the Oassiopeian test, by being plunged into
a bath of aqua vitae, and then again heated to three
hundred degrees (Celcius). While at this ttemperature it
was plunged into a barrel containing fifty kilogrammes of
a mixture of carbon, saltpetre and sulphur gunpow-
der], and after the somewhat unpleasant effect of this
scientific experiment was over, the tube (which was
lightly cracked) was seen to contain liquid air.
Ex-Mayor Baragwanath, of South Mel-
bourne, joining in a chorus of Tory indignation
Over the iiitrusioii of Labor representatives in
municipal politics, shrieked after the annual
mayoral election the other day : “ How any body
of men could have the audacity to bring an
opponent against Or. M‘Arthur after the good
work his wife has done amongst the poor is more
than I can understand.” Charity with the public
personage is often an investment than is expected
to return cent, per cent. A lady bestows a few
buckets of soup and a tract or two on the impover-
ished, and that fact is supposed to prove that her
husband is the best man to conduct public affairs.
Thus the soup becomes a bribe and an act of cor-
ruption. In Victoria there is a law forbidding
Parliamentary candidates to give the electors
beer, and yet a disgusted Mayor reviles the rate-
payers for opposing a council candidate whose wife
had given the electors victuals. A new statute
is needed to suppress the candidate, Parliamen-
tary or municipal, who throws his own or any
other candidate’s beer or soup, or his wife’s beer
or soup, at the public in this fashion.


NO BETTER VALUE IN WATCHES
OFFERED BY ANY
OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gnlti Pin Chain
and Roller Charm,
7s 6d.
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Slipper
and Mouse
Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart
Forget-Me-Not
Spray Charm,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2 Bar Pearl Set
Spray Brooch, 17s 6d.
A Pretty Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Wishbone
Links, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 355.
Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Charm, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open Face Keyless
Watches, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s,
£2. Our “Nurses” Watch, 255.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Design Scroll
Brooch, Set Pearl and
and Rubies, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Set
Heart Charm,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Chased
Oval and Bar
Links, 20s.
loct. Gold. 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted N.Z.
Greenstone Battleaxe
Pendants, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm
Set Pearls and
Ruby or Sapphir
17s 6d.
A.' SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin, Chain,
and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d.
Larger, 7s 6d.
fflSf
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Double Cut Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire
Bracelet, £3.
15ct. Gold, £4 10s.
Fitted with Extra Strong Safety Chain.
SHOPPING
BY POST,
We ensure
you
]ust as
much
satisfaction, as
if you
shopped
personally.
Everything is
exactly as
represented.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Crescent and Moon Brooch,
Fine Pure Double Cut Diamonds, £6O.
Sapphires and Diamonds, £35.
In Silk-Lined Leather Case.
THE
LATEST
designs are
illustrated in
our Catalogue.
Over 15000
illustrations.
Write for it
now.
We send it
Post Free
to any
address .
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Choice Gold Bracelet, Diamonds and Rubles
or Sapphires, £3 15s.
15ct. Gold, 5 Pure Double Cut Diamonds, £7 10s.
\H7
&
£4:4:0.
£4 : 4 : 0.
A. SAUNDERS.
l.adies’ Solid Gold Half-Hunting Keyless
Extra Heavy Oases, High Grade. Plate
Fully Jewelled. No. 1, £4 4s;. No. ;
No. 3,18 ct. Gold, £C, 6s. Guaranteed 3,4,
Watches,
Movement,
2, £5 os;
and 5 Yrs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made Wedding
Rings, 9ct. Gold,
7s 6d, 10s 60,
loot. Gold, 15s, 2Es;
lSct. Gold, 20s, 30s,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hnnd-Mhde Keepers,
9ct. Solid Gold, 7s 6d,
l(,'s, 12s (;d;
15c t. Gold, 17s 6d, 20s;
ISct. Gold, 22s 6d, 30s,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISot. Gold, 6 Pure White
Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphires, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold Claw Set
Pure Double Cut
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
‘Railway” Watch, f-Plate, with Jewels, Latest Model,
Keyless Duplex, Extra Strong. Dust and Water
Tight Screw Cases, 20s. “The Guard,” a similar
Watch, 15s. We repair for 2 and 1 year Free.
“GUARD,"
15/-
‘KAILWAY,”
20/-
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird, Pearl Set Spray,
and Greenstone Heart, Bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
3
a
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl Set
A Neat Design.
Brooch, £5 10s. Larger Size, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Key Ivy Leaf Scroll Brooch
Set Pure Diamonds, 20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 1 iamond,
Half-Hoop Ring, £5.
Larger, ' £6. £7 10s,
£B, £lO.
m
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Bamboo
and Heart
Charm, 3s t>d.
A S MINDERS.
18ct. Gold Scroll Brooch, Set 5 Rubies and
Pure Double Cut Diamonds, £8 10s.
A SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell Links,
12s 6d, 20s;
15ct. Gold, 355.
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Pearl Set
Pendant or Brooch,
£3 10s.
NOTE!
IN REMITTING
MAKE YOUR POSTAL NOTES,
POST OFFICE ORDERS,
AND CHEQUES.
PAYABLE TO
A. SAUNDERS ONLY.
A
WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
OF FREE REPAIR
FOR THREE YEARS
GIVEN WITH
v EACH WATCH.
fV
/
s
m
i
REDUCED
PRICE.
£2:15:0
USUAL
PRICE,
SPECIAL REDUCTIONS
IN PURE SOLID SILVER, HUNTING, KEYWIND
ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES.
REDUCED PRICE, £2 15s. USUAL PRICE, £4 -S.
They are specially made English Levers, full
covered cap, chronometer balance, extra
jewelled, .ceywind, double cases, dust proof,
perfectly regulated and adjusted.
Scientifically constructed to
stand rough riding and
hard wear.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2 Bar Pearl Set Buckle
Brooch, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Claw Set
3 Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £l2 10s.
Nickel,
20s.
A SAUNDERS.
Non-Magnetic, Strong, Reliable, Knockabout
Watches. Our “Unrivalled” Dust and
Waterproof Oases, 20s. London Lever, 255.
Extra Jewelled, 30s. Cheaper Lines, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s. All Guaranteed.
Silver,
30s.
a SAUNDERS.
Gold Horse Shoe
Motto
Charm, 5s 6d.
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Ruby,
or Sapphires and Pearl Set
Scroll Brooch, £8 10s.
A SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval Links,
17s 6d, 20s, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Initials, Is extra.
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Set
Pure White
Pearls, £5.
Smaller Size, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, & OPTICIAN.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ High Grade Keyless Watches, Solid Silvei
Hunting Cases, Beautifully Chased, 255, 30s, £2.
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s, £3. Guaranteed foi
2, 3 ••••> ' 1 Nears.
£2:10:0
£3:10:0
18ct. Gold, 3 Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£3.
Diamonds nrl 2 Rubies,
£2 10s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18c-t. Gold. Dure
Double Oul Diamonds
and Fine White
Pearl,
£2O, £25, £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Diamond
and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, 30s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Floral Ring
Set 4 Pure Double Out
Diamonds and
Pear]
or Turquoise, £5
n
1
Solid
Silver,
£2 : 10 : 0
Gold
Cased,
£4:4:0
A SAUNDERS.
Waltham Watches, Solid Silver Hunting Oases, Extra
Quality Movement, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s. Solid Gold,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25. Guaran-
teed for 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Charm and Pearl Set Spray
Brooch, 255. 15et. Gold, 355.
A SAUNDERS.
Gold 3-Bar Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire Set Scroll Brooch, 21s.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-ST.,
Opposite
Railway
Station.


■
m
-V:
- ?.
m
i
tm
«:
Nr
r.
m®.
iff;®}
J;; 1
mm
&
Hi
*T
...
Kl
H
Hi
r v:
■. .
THE
RABBIT O’ SAYS :
“Fust thing in the morning I starts my pipe with CAPSTAN,
and I smokes it all day. I smokes it dark ; other toffs prefers
it light.”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE_ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
[Tons
WILCANNIA 4953
♦GEELONG .. .. 7954
♦Commonwealth 66ii
Commander.
Sails.
W. G. Lingham .. Sept,22
J. E. Ilbery .. , .. Oct. 27
H. G. Thomas; R.N.R. Dec. 8
, *Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON v .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN diid NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3i 10S.
ROUNH THE WORLD TICKETS from £lis.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney'.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
■—TI f 15—. '
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. G. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.Ck, M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461 - assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction ad td
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eouitably distributed;
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET*; MELBOURNE-
Leslie j. parkj J.P., A.I. A.; Gelieral Manager.
national Bank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. Y. RALSTON.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. I 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) / £370,000
HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : lion. A. YV. Mkkks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Skk, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. J lessor, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, 1). Olynk ; Adelaide. \Y r . N.
M‘Fablank ; Brisbane. A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
' —THE— ~~
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Business Announcements.
C. Stratmann s <
FINE...
Made on xiie
Premises
CHOCOLATES »»«
SWEETfIEATS
124- PITT STREET, Fresh Ever y Da y
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room. ]
DEAFNESS CURED
m
THE AURO PHONE,
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the RELIEF and CURE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address :
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
14 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
THERE IS SOMETHING
YOU WANT TO BUY,
BUT possibly you don’t know just where to send for it
to tret it at the cheapest price. Then you should
make use of our BUYING DEPARTMENT. Oar com-
petent buyer has a knowledge of all the stores, shops and
warehouses in Sydney, and we can get you any thing at
all you want, and at the cheapest price, too. OUR ON LY
CHARGE FOR BUYING is 2J per cent, on the value of
the goods dispatched (minimum charge 6d.). State
requirements clearly and distinctly, and enclose money
in full to cover cost of goods and postage or freight, plus
our charge of 21 per cent. Our Buying System has proved
a blessing to hundreds of country clients. Write for
pamphlets with the fullest particulars.
A J SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street, Bydney.
— Wvfs CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
nermanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 ..
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT A POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prenared by I. W. Nieholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
Prepaiea Belfast> h . eland .
snipping.
IST. Jl_J. T ■,
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD,
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt; Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
“Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA "and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 23th OCTOBER.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 25th NOVEMBER.
“Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-Street, Sydney.
niTry It *
The Only Certain
Moustache ProduOtt.
Qapiliarine
Posted (under covet
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS.
.
im. \
Thi Result.
CRAIG &. AITKEN. N.S • \V. Barber’s Supply
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
m
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
And DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12, 000-ton Stciuners.
MEDIO, to Sail on dr abdut
6th OCTOBER,
AFRIC; SUE VIC, PERSIC;
ahd RUNIC to follow;
FARES—Capetowii
London
New York, &c.
£l4 i 4 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Palyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
ABERDEEN
NINEVEH
♦MARATHON
H, A. Schleman
A. Robb ..
N. Allan ..
Noon, Sept. 29
Noon, Oct. 20
Noon, Nov. 10
•Twin Screw.
FARES 5
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 £lO Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dal yet y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
03 3Es a. nxr i o s.s. 00. jk..
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS, SAILS
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA,
EUROPE and ROUND THE
axicl A.. LI3\TE,
THREE WEEKS.
IVi ONDAf, OCTOBER 2.
FRANCISCO, &c„ &c.
CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, ?SYDNEY.
Through
Pic turesque
islands.
To Singapore, via Torres
Straits and Dutch East In-
dies ! A truly delightful trip,
and one that can now be made
with perfect comfort. The
steamers Airlie ar.d Guthrie,
which are fitted with all elec-
trical and cold storage con-
veniences, leave Sydney alter-
nately every month. The
total cost for the roun l trip
is £4O, or £25 single to Java
or Singapore.
m&m
■sm:
BURNS, PHfLP & GO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY,
CJpon - all - Classes - of
Security. ■W
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
m
Bill "L *3
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
Txr.s.^w.
Iflont de pete D.4I.C*mGM.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J 1,1 lllTICl). “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FusD(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., YV. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George .'Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
OGT. 2, OCT. 30, NOV. 27.
Geography made Canada the
Natural Route Between Aus-
tralia and the Motherland.
There are Six Ports of Call be-
tween Sydney and Vancouver,
the Islands of the Pacific being
Visited.
It is Acknowledged the World Over
that no other Country Compares with
Canada for the Grandeur and Variety
of its Scenery.
f3T WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Illustrated Pamphlets furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNC. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character—very
superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard's Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of trie North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New Vork Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
YOUR DWELLING IN DANGER!
It’s ALWAYS in danger. A Policy in this
Company would ease your mind !
Capital, £1,903,000.
Paid-Up Reserves exceed £430,100. Annual Revenue exceeds £300,000.
SOUTH BRITISH
Manager : GEO. H. MOORE.
Fire and Marine Insurance Go.,
12 Bridge StSydney .
Asst. Manager : CHAS. T. METCALFE.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian}
Victorian and Queensland Ports«
FOR MELBOURNE; x
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS;
ESPERANCE BAY;
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE;
Transhipping afc Fremantle
to all North Westerrt Ports,
v
S.S. AlLnga, September 15.
S;S; Kanowriaj Sept. 27.
BRISBANE, 'l
MACKAY, I
TOWNSVILLE, j
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, September i 6.
S.S. Alling-a, September 22;
Jiest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries lVlaritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LA IDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will he dispatched MONTHLY as follows: -
PASSENGERS hodked td Bombay, India, Cninj
Batavia, and Japari. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including tab'e wines.
RETURN TICKET'S AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISII
SPOKER ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English liiterpireters nieefi
the passengers for London and give them every adsistarioS
in landing and passing their luggage,through the OuStOtiidl
etc., and also acebhipany tliem to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company dffioesi
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIEIt DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TIIE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUI ENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CON VENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the IJ.S. America.
Forhandlionks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. 00. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
■JJENVLY decoi-ated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and Will be
found one of the best appointed and Up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney, The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position ill
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of tiie Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. rioderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every counor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions., ‘i to 5 Beaconsfieid Parade.
S I . KILDA.
rnilF Largest and ue*i-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L tlie Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE i d MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLVS GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


The Victorian Women’s National League
appears to have its artillery in readiness for
stormy times. The East Melbourne mansion of
its president (Janet Mrs. Clarke) has two big guns
on the verandah, one each side of the door. So
far, no misguided Socialist has dared to pass them
and break up the ’ome, nor has any one left in
them a document reflecting on the sanctity of the
mariage tie.
“ W.D.” : When the reluctant Butler was
pushed out by Price, I ventured to jubilate in my
humble way before my wife and family, and inci-
dentally our domestic help. Next day, my wife
was approached by this domestic lady, and had to
listen to a tearful protest “that Mr. had sym-
pathy with that horrid Labor party.” Never before
had she accepted service in a household where
such things could be, and really, much as she
regretted it, she would have to leave.
“F.” : A few months ago S.M. Herald
opened its columns to a controversy re golden
horseshoes at the Ovens (Vic.). No one seemed
to have known who the Mr. Cameron was who
rode the gold-shod horse. The Illustrated
London News, of March 26, 1856, has this para-
graph :
Mr. Daniel Cameron, late Assistant-Superintendent of
Police in Glasgow, went some years since to Australia,
but left the police and went to the diggings. He has
been elected a member of the Legislative Council, and
the Melbourne Argus says : “ A private letter from a resi-
dent on the Woolshed has been shown to us, in which it
is stated that Mr. Cameron, the newly-elected member
for the district, had the compliment paid to him by his
supporters of having the horse he rode at the time of the
contest shod with solid gold. A more sensible proof of
the cordiality of Mr. Cameron’s supporters is furnished
by the efforts they are making to furnish him with due
qualification for taking his seat in the Legislative Coun-
cil. At a meeting of the committee at the Woolshed no
less than £l5OO of the £2OOO required was subscribed on
the spot.”
Recent S.M. Herald advt. :
~XXT ANTED, 2 Waitresses, wait on table, bloomer
T ' costume. Railway Din. Room, .
Mr. James!
An anecdote of a late KT.S.W. Minister.
He had been opening a bridge, or something,
shortly after the death of Queen Victoria, and the
banquet in the evening was nearing its close when
an idea struck him, and he brayed : “ Genelum,
find there’s been important ’mishun in toasht
lisht. Let’s drink the health of the late Queen.”
Seems somehow to recall the old Highland toast-
master, who announced to the crowd waiting
outside the hotel where a big dinner was going
on: “The King be drunk, the Queen be drunk,
and all the Royal family be drunk.”
“ O’Fipp ” : Be E. T. Smith, Dr. L. L.
Smith’s father (B. 27/7/’O5). In his day E. T.
had a lot to do with the furnishing forth of
London laud mayor’s show—the annual proces-
sion that puts a badly-needed bit of color into
the grimy streets of Fogtown. In “Carols of
Cockayne,” Henry Leigh sings
It conies ! the wished-for pageant comes. Observe the
mailed knights.
Observe the squires who follow them (in somewhat seedy
tights).
Observe the noble chargers, too. Methinks I’ve heard it
said
That E. T. Smith doth furnish them at three-and-six a
head.
When he leased Drury Lane theatre, father
Smith was not particular as to the variety of show
he gave, and followed up the season of “ that
unparalleled tragedian, Mr. G. V. Brooke,” with
“Tom Barry, the deathless and renowned clown,”
and “the champion vaulter of all the world,
Arthur Barnes, who has accomplished the unpre-
cedented feat of throwing 91 somersaults in
succession.” Some of E. T. Smith’s advertising
genius lived after him.
m
m
m
WHY
NOT
vV uVS
NO MAN SHOULD BE WEAK!
No man should suffer the loss of that Vital Element that renders life worth
living. No man should allow himself to become less a man than Nature
intended him. No man should suffer for the sins of his youth, when there
is at hand a certain cure for his weakness, a check to his loss of strength.
Most of the Pains, most of the Weakness of Stomach, Heart, Brain, and
Nerves, from which men suffer, are due to an early loss of Nature’s reserve
power through mistakes of youth. You need not suffer for this, you can
be restored. The very element which you have lost you can get back,
and you may be as happy as any man that lives.
Oup ELECTRIC BELT, with ■pedal Electric Attachments, will
Restore your Strength, will Check all Drains, and will
give you back the old Vigor of Youth.
We have cured thousands of men who have squandered the savings of
years in useless treatments. Our Belt is easy to use; you put it on when
you go to bed ; you feel the glowing heat from it (no sting or burn as in
old-style Belts), and you feel your nerves tingle with the new life flowing
into them. You get up in the morning feeling like a two-year-old.
Mr. L. Arrowsmith, of Wongo, via Manilla, N.S.W., writes:
“ I wish to report to you the Marvellous Cure which the Electric Belt I obtained from
you has effected in my case. I wore the Belt for three weeks, applying it when going
to bed, and taking it off when riling in the morning. Before I obtained your Belt I
thought I would never be cured. I aould not sleep at night for the pain in my back,
but after wearing your Belt for one week the pain left my back, and since then I have
not lost one night’s sleep. I can now record a positive cure through your Belt.”
It Cures Rheumatism, Sciatic Pains, Lumbago, Kidney Troubles,
Weak Back, Nervousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Gout,
Varicocele, and all Liver and Stomach Troubles.
Mr. Fred. Fox, of White Cliffs, N.S.W., states: “After wearing one
of your High-Grade Belts for four months, I am glad to say that I am perfectly cured
of Bad Back and Debility, after suffering for fifteen years. I have had some rather
severe tests since leaving the Belt off, but have felt no ill effects. I would advise any-
one suffering with a Bad Back to wear one of your Belts, which is a sure cure.”
What ails you? Write and tell us, and no matter where you are, we
think we can give you the address of someone in your town who has been
cured. We’ve cured thousands, and every one of them is a walking
advertisement for our Belt.
Every man who ever used It recommends It, because It is honest.
It does great work, and those whom It has cured are
all the more grateful because it costs so little.
FREE.
Write us to-day for our Beautiful 96-page Book, with Illus-
trations showing how the Belt is applied, and lots of good
reading for men who want to be the “ Noblest Work of
God”— A MAN. Write for this Book to-day, and we will send it to
you, closely sealed and Postage Paid, by return mail.
WRITES FOR PARTICULARS of our System of HOME CURES.
ABSOLUTELY FREE ADVICE AT OUR OFFICES OR BY MAIL.
the McLaughlin go.,
lOOW. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
And at 167 E. SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford
Harry Joseph Crawford
e
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Oure for Grout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DiNNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
m
Co-operating Wool & Produce Co., Sydney.
A BONA FIDE PASTORALISTS’ INSTITUTION.
MELANCHOLIC MEN
The Director & Principal of Institutes,
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN.
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.-All
who have lost will-power, either by con-
tinually committing themselves to habits of
dissipation or by neglecting the opportuni-
ties to amend, become unfitted for any of the
walks of life. Now 20,000 men and women
have overcome their feelings of reserve to
such an extent that they have openly
endorsed the methods of
AND
Weary Women
Will you allow yourselves to
remain /.: a miserable state
of Nervousness or Debility,
when a Cure is at hand?
The Physiciatrin-Chief of Institute,
DR. RICHARD WALLACE.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE.
They restore sufferers to a perfect, healthy state. This is not the confession of merely one person, but o^
TWICE TEN THOUSAND ITEN TALKING TO YOU.
These have been Restored to Health by the world-renowned Specialists, and if they are willing: to
sacrifice all reserve to prove to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to
make careful investigation.
The Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical Treatmant
brings back VIM, VIGOR, and ENERGY to men and women who have wasted their strength and
energies. Those who have wrecked their health MUST certainly suffer. Remember that, and be warned
in time.
DR. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.M., has Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and
Registration open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms. His medical staff comprises FOUR DULY-
REGISTERED, FULLY-QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS, as well as Experts in the special ailments of
MEN. Registered chemists dispense his prescriptions.
You have suffered long and seriously. Why not let us assist you in the realisation of rapid relief and
complete cure? THIS WE CAN DO WITHOUT DOUBT if you will confide in us. Read the following
description or Keynote Symptoms, and if you have any of them you may rest assured you require the
remarkable treatment that has won name and fame for the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
Institutes of Health and Healing.
FAILING- VIGOR.
When this begins to go, you
will twitch and show signs of
premature weakness. Fol-
lowing are some of the symp-
toms :
Your facial nerves twitch,
You are all run down,
Spots before your eyes,
The muscles twitch,
Pains in small of back,
Pains in head,
Shooting pains,
You feel fatigued,
You are weary,
Your head swims,
Your knees knock,
Your hand trembles.
NERVOUS TWITCH
INOr.
A nervous person easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitching.
Here are some symptoms :
Your eyes twitch,
Your hands tremble,
You feel shaky,
You walk haltingly,
You are melancholy,
Ringing in the ears,
Blood is poor,
Your eyes weak,
Your eyes bleary,
Your head swims.
DEBILITY.
This affliction destroys ambition,
organic strength, energy, and
hope. Following are symp-
toms :
You feel weak,
You feel cold,
Your back aches,
You lose flesh,
You sleep poorly,
Are low-spirited,
Your e3 7 es sunken,
You have hot flushes,
Your memory impaired,
No real vigor,
You have sick headaches,
Nausea after eating,
Hands or feet moist,
Brightness leaves the eye.
DO NOT DELAY. —Delays are at all times dangerous. You would not throw away a grain of
gold ; neither would you discard a pearl of great price ; yet health is more to you than any of these.
What is the value of a million of money, doubled fourfold, to a millionaire, if his arteries are aneurised, or
his brain softenened beyond all hope of cure? The moral of these facts lies in the proverbial truth—Do
not delay. PROCRASTINATION IS THE PRECIPICE BELOW WHICH YAWNS THE AWFUL GULF
OF DEATH. AVOID IT !
LOSE NO CHANCE. —Every man knows it is dangerous to trifle with disease. You might as
well stand at the mouth of a loaded cannon. While you have time, write to the SPECIALISTS at the
INSTITUTE; state your symptoms, act according to their instructions, and you will soon be your old
self again. Their record is a series of professional triumphs. THEY HAVE THOUSANDS OF TESTI-
MONIALS TO PROVE THEIR UNEQUALLED SKILL.
SURE
We publish here two testimonials out of the
thousands which we possess. They are from
gentlemen whose names are familiar in the commer-
cial and athletjc spheres of Australia. They are
now strong and able-bodied men, happy in the con-
sciousness of renewed health and vitality:—t
CURES.
MR. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., of Sydney, after a brief
course of our medical methods, writes regarding
our Electro-Medical Treatment:—
“ I am satisfied it gives health and vigor to the
system. For some time my nerves Were out of
tone, but now I am perfectly well, and have regained
my usual strength.”
MR. RALPH WELLS, of Melbourne, a Professional
Pugilist of very high order, and who recently
fought Jim Corbett, writes to us on October
Ist, 1904, thus
“It gives me pleasure to state I have been under
your methods, being run down and suffering from
poorness of blood, with its complications. A brief
course of treatment at your hands has had most
satisfactory results and I am myself again.”
FREE MEDICAL BOOK! ! —During the Summer Season.our great medical treatise, “Clinical
Experiences,” may be obtained FREE on application. It contains 600 pages, 150 medical illustrations,
and 31 chapters, replete with valuable information. The best Book for Men with Serious Ailments.
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating thousands of cases annually, and is it not reasonable to suppose that we under-
stand such cases better than those who are treating' only a few hundred? Practice makes perfect in
any line, and it is none the less true in the treatment of disease. You get the benefit of Experience
when you place your case in our hands. Do not despair. Order your treatment at once, and let U 3
add your name to our long list of cures.
******
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will not cure you, it is a duty you
owe to yourself to write to some of the references we herein publish, and send an addressed envelope
for reply. Ask any of the attendants who have given their testimonies to us if they think we can
benefit you. We court the closest investigation. Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick
men living in centres far from medical men and aid. Thousands of men would now be in their graves
had we not reached and treated them by our Parcel Post System. Remember! we do not charge for
advice by letter.
The Freeman and Wallace
Electro-6V!edsea! & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director. AND AT MELBOURNE.
DR. WALLACE, L.R.C.P., L.M., Physician-in-Cbief.
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.


DEAH BOY:
AUSTRALIA :
“ I always import my clothes.
“Yes ! They speak for themselves ; mine are made in Australia
of AUSTRALIAN TWEED manufactured at ITARRICKVILLE !
Our Trade Mark, “ THE
WARATAH,” tells the tale:
Hade in Australia of Pure
Wool ——>
INSIST ON
YOUR TAILOR
GIVING YOU
nARRICKVILLE
TWEED.


-
mi
m
»Ws«i*itsemw
S 5?
s««*
mm
SSWSW
Mm
ffl
mm
SSSfc
D:
*
? r i i
I mm
<
Ig
i
; m
a
kii
~WS#«W^«ra?
:#...
"Tf ,
M•; W'-w K V, *&£ V, ffe
1*
sasss™
i~aa
| 5. ,
VI
*i V
fl
I
":•■■:■
Sf 1
* $8
®s^s®SK®:w
:$S*
Ss®?s
>-■
msm**
i m
&
mm
c-\->* : *
m
m
11
m
■:
*
|h
IK
■
Ml
;'f j
I
HR
wewsW*
=ieoW*#?'
f Hf
gMSfSSS®?
■
I
1
■X-v
■
a«:
■
We have been honored by the personal presence of, and have received ENCOMIUMS upon the FACTORIES,
the SYSTEiT OF CONSTRUCTION, or the TONAL QUALITIES, from :
Their Excellencies Lord and Lady NORTHCOTE.
Her Excellency Lady DARLEY, New South Wales.
The Hon. ALFRED DEAKIN, Prime Minister.
The Right Honorable GEORGE HOUSTON REID, ex-Prime Minister.
The Hon. JOHN CHRISTIAN WATSON, ex-Prime Minister.
The Right Hon. CHARLES CAMERON KINGSTON.
The Hon. Sir WM. JOHN LYNE.
The Right Hon. Sir EDMUND BARTON.
The Hon. Sir JOSEPH WARD, Treasurer, New Zealand.
The Hon. Sir JOHN SEE.
The Hon. Sir ARTHUR RUTLEDGE, Queensland.
The Hon. WALTER HARTWELL JAMES, ex-Premier, Western
The Hon. J. G. JENKINS, ex-Premier, South Australia.
The Hon. EDWARD W. O’SULLIVAN, ex-Minister for Works, N.S.W.
The Hon. THOMAS WADDELL, ex-Premier, New South Wales.
The Hon. JOHN PERRY, ex-Minister of Education.
The Hon. JOHN KIDD, ex-Minister for Mines, N.S.W.
The Hon. Sir FRANCIS B. SUTTOR, President Legislative Council,
New South Wales.
The Hon. JAMES HAYES.
The Hon. ROBERT REID.
The Hon. J. B. NASH, M.D.
The Hon. A. W. MEEKS.
The Hon. Senator HIGGS.
The Hon. Senator PLAYFORD.
The Hon. Sir LANGDON BONYTHON.
The Hon. Mr. KINGSMILL, ex-Minister for Works, W.A.
And Many Other Legislators.
His EMINENCE CARDINAL MORAN.
His GRACE the COADJUTOR ARCHBISHOP OF SYDNEY.
The CHAIRMAN of the CONGREGATIONAL UNION.
The PRESIDENT of the METHODIST CONFERENCE.
And Many Other Clergymen.
The PRESIDENTS of the TRADES and LABOR COUNCILS,
And Other Labor Bodies Throughout the States.
The PRESIDENTS of CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE.
The PRESIDENTS of CHAMBERS OF MANUFACTURES.
The Right Hon. the LORD MAYOR OF SYDNEY and Many Mayors
and Aldermen.
PROFESSOR MATHEW ENNIS, Doctor of Music, Adelaide Con-
servatorium, and Many Musical Authorities.
The CONSUL for the UNITED STATES, and Many Others.
The COMMERCIAL AGENT for CANADA.
PIANO MANUFACTURERS from GERMANY, ENGLAND
and AMERICA, who visited us, gave GENEROUS
PRAISE.
At the opening of the Arts and Crafts Exhibition at the new Post Office, Hobart, on Wednesday, November 2,1904,
his Excellency the Governor (Sir Gerald Strickland, K.C.M.G.) made the following eulogistic reference to Beale’s Pianos :
“ I have been deeply interested in an Australian exhibit of pianos made on the other side of the straits, which are strung
on beautiful steel castings. I refer to Beale’s Pianos. I recently had the honor to serve his Majesty the King where no
piano could be kept in tune. Here an example is given how mechanical instinct can be perfected by trade ; that here
lias been produced for a sub-tropical country pianos which will certainly stand the test of the worst heat in the tropics.
I sincerely trust it will, both here and there, meet with the success it deserves.” —Verbatim Press Report.
And, beyond all, we hold 5000 TESTIMONIALS from
Actual Buyers, stating UNBOUNDED SATISFACTION .
Why don’t YOU purchase, upon your own terms? And we will
give you Twenty-five Years’ Guarantee.
BEALE & COMPANY, Ltd.,
SHOWROOMS at FACTORIES, TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, and at
474 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, opp. MARKETS.
207 KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
28 HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE.
GEORGE STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET, GOULBURN.
101 BRISBANE STREET, LAUNCESTON.
107 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
127 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, HAY STREET, PERTH.


lIPHI
1111111111 l
""
lliiuiiM iniMiumimuiimu
IBSrr:
inillllll
Hi", •:: ,ii 'iiii
iiuiiil
Ill'
iiiiiii
m
Hi
i 1 «•****'•
llllllllii|ll'l|
HuuMI'JII'
immtiHiillliii
mlm
Mini
HU
■n
$ ,
■
■
■i iSSi
IP
nin
m
mm
pm- j:...
h ifjJlw ifljijj
'iiitwlWii fill flliiilSlSl III! ill
■■ ■
• !i
1
mm
warn
as
HR
111
lll
iiiiiH 11 !!:
CITIZENS’ LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY, Limited
FUNDS ... ... £1,500,000.
Head Office : Citizens’ Building, Gastiereagh & Moore Sts., Sydney.
Brandi Offices: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Wellington (N*Z,)


C7C7
0
o
0
/
L
/
'K
m
[
1
//.
\
r (
mi.
THE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “ It’s an
1 Honest Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you
never find it mislead you. If you want just such a Watch we can
recommend for your perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest
Watches, prices for which range from 14/6 to £7O. We will be
pleased to post a copy to any who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watches, any of
which we will send free and safe by post, together with our
written guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
B * J ** U msr^
4/2 GEORGE S 7
SYDNEY.
m
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance.
The movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring,
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases are of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
m
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full plate Watch. The balance wheel being: situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance, En-
glish Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
w
A Special Dust
Protected Watch
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, g-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it to-
gether with our war-
ranty, for
W MAKERS PRICE
m
i
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
gurchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
ase jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
m
m
m
An Ideal Lady’s Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved,. Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, arid is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
uri<»iualled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
#5
Get a Gold Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure, buy
it now when you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Go. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring' Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this exception-
al one, with full
case and movement
guarantee, for
(ft
HEALTH
m
STRENGTH
KUTNOW’S POWDER is one of the most beneficial remedies for the improvement of health and the prevention of disease ; in fact, it is the one remedy
which enjoys the support and approval of the general body of medical practitioners. The reason for the recognition of its value by such distinguished
physicians as PROF, LAWSON TAIT, M.D., SIR MORELL MACKENZIE, M-Di, SIR SPENCER WELLS, M.D., and SIR ANDREW CLARK,
M.D., is not difficult of comprehension. Kutnow’s Powder is appreciated by doctors because they know that it contains nothing which is injurious, no
mercurial poison, nothing painful or drastic, and nothing but what is beneficial. The most delicate person can take it, even very young children and
invalids find it agreeable ; moreover, its action is so gentle and soothing that insensibly to the patient it efficiently does its work. It clears and flushes the
entire system of all noxious debris and poisonous liquids, which action is invaluable to both sick and well. It gradually changes certain morbid conditions
of the system, and establishes healthy tissue, which alone is able to bring about a sound constitution. It stimulates the vital processes to renewed
activity, and enables the kidneys and bowels to remove waste matter which ought to be eliminated, one of the most important of which is URIC ACID.
In this way Kutnow’s Powder alters, corrects and purifies the fluids, gives tone to, and re-establishes the healthy function of, all the digestive and other
organs of the body. It cleanses and lubricates the human machinery. Kutnow’s Powder is an alterative which possesses tonic, laxative, stimulant,
and diuretic properties. It is a mild aperient which flushes the whole alimentary canal. It is a stimulant which has the power of increasing the vital
activity of the body. It is a cholagogue which never fails to make the liver act properly. Its alkaline action neutralises excessive acidity in the stomach
and bowels. It is an antiseptic which prevents putrefaction. These are the qualifications of Kutnow’s Powder, and, needless to say, they never fail
to assist in the maintenance and re-establishment of Health.
H. A. G. ROEDERj Esq.,
writes
“113 Gower-street, London, W.C.
'* I consider it only fair to apprise you of the
remarkable beneficial results obtained by the use
of Kutnow’s Powder. I purchased a bottle, and
continued with a dose for several mornings before
breakfast. For a long time past I suffered from
severe mental depression, due to an inactive liver
and kidney trouble, with excessive uric acid.
Thanks to your efficient remedy I no longer fear
these distressing attacks, as I find a single dose
corrects any mistakes in diet and removes the
injurious poisons. In the hope that my letter
may lead others to try what has proved an in-
valuable boon to me, you may make whatever
use you please of my testimony.”
lfi)portai?t CaOtioo
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but the?®
are others, who, for the sake of a little extra profit, will
attempt to foist upon you some cheap imitation of their
o\rn. It is well known that these cheap concoctions as©
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive)
persons capable of inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s.
Ponder is pure, painless, palatable, free from sugar, and!
absolutely harmless. See that the fac-sitnile signature;,
“S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,.
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the carton int
which the bottle is packed, and also on the label on the'
bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure)
your obtaining the
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder
THE DOCTOR’S ADVICE.
“ 2 Percy-road, Wrexham, July 6, 1904.
“Sirs, —Some five years ago I had an acute
attack of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney),
and my doctor advised Harrogate waters. After
faying them for some time with very little result
the (doctor suggested giving your Powder a trial,
with .'such excellent result that in a short time I
felt -very much better. I continued taking it
■regularly every other day for two years, and con-
sider it worked an entire cure. I never go to a
patient without a bottle in my possession. Many
■of my patients have tried it with excellent results.
I think the wonderful good done in such cases
should be widely known for the benefit of other
sufferers.
“ Yours sincerely,
“MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).”
ERFECTS DIGESTION, REGULATES EXCRETION
Proprietors :S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C. Proprietors In U.Siff.. : KOI now BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York. [1 — 7].


HAVE
YOU
A
i. V
BAD
LEG
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
■never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
submit to amputation; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don’t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisno reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a ce tain cure of
BadLegs,Housemaid’sKnee,UlceratedJoints, Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street. London, England. Purchasers should
look foe the Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
•n a green label on each box. (Registered Copyright).
w'#' ■im / ////'///// ■"'////////"/////' '/////'///////„
* OR. SHELDON’S
MAGNETIC
LINIMENT
CURES
Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Lame Back, Neuralgia,
Chilblains, etc.
Dr. SHELDON’S
MAGNETIC LINIMENT
reflects its virtues
wherever used.
HEALTH
BRINGS
BEAUTY
35
(1
A WOMAN
full of
bounding
life, healthy
and happy !
A woman
from whom
the little
troubles o f
life seem to
slip like rain
from a roof!
A woman
beloved by
all! Who
would not be
she? badies,
it is within
the power of
all of you!
Throw off
your diseas-
es, maladies,
depressions,
which en-
feeble the frame
and spoil the tem-
per, by taking
Scott’s Emulsion
the best of all compounds of cod
liver oil mixed with glycerine and
the life-giving hypophosphites of
lime and soda. Consider the expe-
rience of Miss L. M. Graham, who
on November 12th, 1904, wrote
us this letter from Sunny Dell,
Grenfell, N.S.W.
“ Since birth I have suffered from a
most irritating, hollow cough, and al-
though I tried several so-called remedies,
I did not obtain any relief. I commenced
taking Scott’s Emulsion last July, and am
now quite a different person, and I am
certain that I am completely cured. I
Strongly advise any persons suffering
from any complaint of the chest or lungs
to take a course of Scott’s Emulsion, as I
am confident, from my own experience,
that they will find relief and cure.”
In cases of anaemia, eczema,
wasting, lung, throat and blood
diseases, or weakness of any sort,
all of which prevent a woman from
looking her best, Scott’s Emulsion
is a sure means of restoration.
Write at once for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d. for postage and mention-
ing this paper) to SCOTT & BOWNB,
Etd., 483, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
IT TIE
FIRST SIGN
Of Disfiguring Humours
Use CUTICURA
Every child born into the world
with an inherited tendency to tor-
turing, disfiguring humours of the
Skin and Scalp, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not
only because of its suffering, but
because of the dreadful fear that
the disfiguration is to be lifelong
and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the
duty of mothers of such afflicted
children to acquaint themselves
with the best, the purest, and most
effective treatment available, viz.:
warm baths with Cuticura Soap,
and gentle anointings withCuticura
Ointment, the great Skin Cure.
Cures made in childhood are
speedy, permanent, economical.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 6
Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; Bos-
ton, U. S. A., Potter Drug & Clietn. Corp., Sole Props.
SSrMailed tree, “ How to Cure Inherited Humours.
Missing: Friends.
KEANE, THOMAS, last seen at Mary-
borough, Queensland, 10 years ago; sup-
posed to have gone to Sydney and worked with a
contractor named Neville ; thought to have been
in Plague Hospital, Sydney, in year 1900. Father,
Michael Keane, of Derould, Kilrainona, Co. Clare,
Ireland, inquiring. Anybody knowing where-
abouts, or evidence of death, please communicate
with Gavan Duffy and King, Solicitors, National
Trustees’ Building, 125 Queen-street, Melbourne.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
'S-IB'i
W.DUMRUHC
MELBOURNE
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
IS LIFE WORTH LIVING?
(BY “ PHILO.”)
To almost everyone there occur times when the question whether life is worth living thrusts
itself upon them, but there are, fortunately, very few who come to a negative conclusion and decide to
anti To a thosein't oSoytnt health the question occurs but seldom but there are so
many people who are never in thorough health, and others who suffer from pain and sickness, that to
them—the far larger class—the vital question is apt to intrude itself with persistency.
It is remarkable how many people suffer from pain and sickness which they could readily be cured
of if they w“re aware of the cause of their trouble. Of course there are diseases which cannot he cured,
but such SXrs as rheumatism, gout, neuralgia, lumbago, backache sciatica blood disorders
anaemia indigestion, biliousness, jaundice, sick headache, general debility, gravel, stone, bladder
troubles and Bright’s disease are all curable. One and all arise from a diseased or inactive condition
of the kidneys and liver. When the kidneys and liver are working actively and m harmony, uric and
biliary poisons are thrown off from the system in a natura manner and as it is the presence of these
poisons in the bjood which causes the suffering entailed by any of the complaints mentioned, the
removal of the poisons means the subsequent cessation of pain ana sunenng. . , .
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce If the kidneys are working freely and healthily all this solid matter leaves the body dis-
solved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properlv a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins,
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning, such as
Rheumatism Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, , Gravel, Stone,
and Bladcßr Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some
urine passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If
Sis then cloudy shows a sediment like brickdust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating
about in it the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be taken to restore their
iisror or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning wil result
g The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes
suear from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to.be able to again supply it
to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is msolub e,
into urea which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
lived tlieir life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or Diseased we suffer from some
form of biliary poisoning, such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice, Sick Headache,
Gen So a iisrmate J is a tht Satkm between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys the liver becomes affected in sympathy, and
vice versd It was the realisation of the importance of this close onion of the labor of these vital
organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warners
Sale Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine
could be found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an
exhaustive search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success m
compounding a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner s afe
Cure exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys-
and liver and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all
complaints due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of
the kidneys and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons.
cease. Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent, simply because they are natural. [6
Beautiful Home Decorations
m
easily and economically obtained by the. most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“StPOEIN” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“BAPOLIN” ALI MIM M ENAMEL, gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made ot' metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver nmsn,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOIiD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory. ....
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENBORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE'’ GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
“ Wanderer” writes from Leipsic University,
Germany :
Apropos of a White Australia policy. One meets many
Americans in this part of the world, and all, with one con-
sent, curse the nigger as a present pest and a future
menace. Met a young Harvard doctor of philology here,
and asked him his opinion on the negro question. He
said : “ Fact is, most Northerners don’t know anything
about it. If the niggers come up they are kicked back,
and if they stay they die. Was a rank pro-nigger myself
till I went South, and came back converted. You see
book-niggers, not buck-niggers ; and I can tell you that
the average buck-nigger out-stinks any skunk in the
States. They take a fiendish fancy for white women ; so
that in many quarters no decent white girl goes out alone
after dark.”
A young Southern parson and his wife admitted that,
theoretically, the nigger was their brother, and cursed him
all the more for it. They worship Dixon, the author
of the “ Leopard’s Spots,” and say that such a picture is
far truer of the average negro than “ Uncle Tom ”, wiiich
may have been true in its time, but should now be rele-
gated to threepenny Town Hall barnstormers. “ Some-
thing will have to be done,” said the parson, “ and that
quick, or there’s g ing to be trouble.”
On my questioning another American, an inhabitant of
Dixie, he said : “ Talk about the times of Nero, sir 1 Do
you know what’s happened in my country not long
since ? They tarred and feathered a nigger and burnt
him alive, and when his bonds burnt and he writhed
himself out of the flame the crowd kicked him back."
It’s not our business to discuss the rights and the
wrongs of the nigger-question in the States. But the
point is, they’re there ; and when a people naturally
generous and warm-hearted (as the Southerner is well-
known to be) can, in sheer desperation, resort to such
gruesome barbarity, it gives one pause. Coiien is plant-
ing the seeds of a similar fester in South Africa, and in
Australia you can’t do better than hang on to your anti-
color policy with a clam-like grip.
♦
The “ other side ” of the picture of the State that
is paying £2,000,000 a year in mining dividends :
If some mineral phenomena do not spring a surprise on
us, a reactionary exodus must take place from Westralia
before long. At present, it is sad to see a splendid class
of men tramping round “ the Circus ” in hundreds —from
Perth to Southern Cross, on to Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie,
through the Arrow, Menzies, Leonora, Lawlers, Darlot,
Murchison, Geraldton, Walkawajq etc., back to Perth.
One who is not “posted” has no idea of the hardships.
There are plenty of men “shaking,” whose average is about
4dwt. a week ; but they tackle it in desperation, for they
say the chance of a slug is greater than the chance of a
job. If they don’t get a slug, and the storekeeper stops
their credit, there is nothing for it but the barrow ; same
vehicle serves for a bunk, chair, table, tucker box, shaker
and tool truck, etc. When they have it all on it tops
3cwt. The Italians monopolise the “ chop et the vood ”
industry. The average at this is £1 10s. per week over
and above tucker. Men are coming down from Marble
Bar per saltbush express, tapping for graft on the way ;
pass on to Norseman ; and many face the weary track
along the Bight into S. Aus. Yet the steamers come in
crowded. Poor beggars; they’ll need pity soon, some of
them.
+
The Tasmanian Government remains dead to the
deplorable destruction of the State’s timber.
Every year licenses are issued to scores of indivi-
duals who industriously pick the eyes out of the
best forests in the State. Private saw-mills are
erected on Crown lands wherever a few good trees
can be conveniently hauled in, and coun-tless
strong young saplings are destroyed for the sake of
a few feet of their butts. Timber rights over large
belts of country, and whole islands, are granted to
syndicates and big mill owners; and this is called
the “ Timber Industry.” What little benefit it is
to the State, as a State, isn’t worth speaking
about. Belts of timber which were reserved
years ago have been thrown open to selection and
the trees ringed by the selectors. With a few
miserable exceptions, the Government can’t call
one tree within hauling distance its own. Added
to the mill and syndicate scourge, thousands of
tons of magnificent young timber up to two feet are
yearly destroyed in the interests of the Axemen’s
Association and the scores of tuppenny-ha’penny
chopping pushes all over the island. No replace-
ment is attempted, and in a few years all the
timber worth anything which remains will be
growing high up on the ranges, out of reach of
syndicate and Government ; and this out-of-reach-
ness is the only cheerful aspect of the matter.
Then a Select Committee will rush out of the
House to inquire into the melancholy and extra-
ordinary dearth of good timber on the lowlands ;
and will draw up a report suggesting that the in-
accessible mountain tops be reserved for State
milling purposes. And if such report be foolishly
allowed to reach them, the mouldy old images in
the Upper House will put their gold-rimmed
glasses on their noses and proceed to give it Slops
by heaving it into the Drain.
“Only two classes in Australia remain
absolutely untouched by culture—the larrikin
class and the squatter class ; and various processes
are being brought to bear on the larrikin class.”—
Walteii Murdoch (lecturer on English at Melb.
University), in an address on Australian litera-
ture.
Bathurst National Advocate follows the
grimy Reid through his Yes-Noes on the Iron
Bonus question. In view of his present frenzied
opposition to the bonus, this extract from his
speech in the Reps. (Hansard, 15/10/’01) is
interesting:—
I have always been one who would like to see the iron
industry firmiy established, but my method of effecting
this would be by giving it direct encouragement from the
national exchequer. My reason for doing this would be
that, as it is a national industry, the nation should pay
the expense of encouraging it. ... A national benefit
should be paid for out of the national funds. ... A
national advantage should be paid for out of the national
exchequer, and not out of the pockets of a particular
individual who happens to encourage the production of a
particular article
Probably the oldest sky-pilot on active
duty in the Commonwealth to-day, and not on
any superannuation list, is Rev. Thomas Beecher
Swift, of Alexandra, a decadent mining town in
Victoria. Ordained in 1871, after many years of
amateur preaching, Dad Swift was first appointed
to Murchison. About 13 years later he opened
the Alexandra Presbyterian Church, which had
been dead for over six years, and it has remained
in his charge ever since. At 84 years of age this
fine old pioneer preacher officiates three times
every Sunday, and every fourth Sunday he drives
from 25 to 38 miles to conduct service. After all
these years at sky-piloting it is sad to find rev.
Swift posing in the Age patent medicine adver-
tisements as an example of the efficacy of some
pill or other.
H. J. Blake, the Westralian company
manager who was lately blown up with dynamite,
was a son of Blake whom the British Government
once named for the Queensland Governorship.
But MTlwraith, then Premier of Mongrelia, dis-
liked Blake, and threatened, if the gentleman
came along, to send him out-back ringbarking for
his salary, and Blake, senior, stayed away. Blake,
junior, at that time held a billet in the Queens-
land Civil Service, which billet he afterwards
threw up for something better in Westralia.
When the steamer in which he took passage was
out of sight, the Civil Service Board gathered
together and for some days amused itself “in-
quiring ” into him. What it found out about him
the public never knew. Perhaps it didn’t find out
anything, but rumor said that in the way of drop-
ping ink-blots on his accounts and having dog’s-
ears on his documents young Blake was unrivalled.


KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA,
m
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not pi rfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.W to £S
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Huts, Dunlop
or l lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
1 .0 any port in the world. We guarantee sale
delivery.
200
all makes,
Rood as new,
Second-Hand Cycles
£1 to £2AO
Groat factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
IT A DAI A PVm C taking orders from sample
Crtn'M H OTuILEL machine. Active Agents
wan ed in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines; Phonographs, he.. hal r prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Depf. 833
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing' to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the VVaverley Pen."
m
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separafe'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
Hi* 1 ” BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~m
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAH.
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 26, Posted 29. Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 38 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,; The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 38 years’ proven efficacy,
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicccele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for suStreis o under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure, It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation.
WRITE TJ-T.V'.
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S
Eng-.
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
1849. p or pjf e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
has money to lend
On Security or Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Debentui Bs nd m«‘o , !- , ih«H n l* ine i. C,) Pa6toral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
ui es, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
con *- a ' ns a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fne.
DUe Eso rß -len a ?nfrul' E^-> ohai ™; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy. Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. , Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E Winchoombe, Esq
nßln ~™T^L ene I al ManasiPr and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. 4
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY, ROBERT B, CAMERON, Secretary.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
jfc^-^riELBOURNE.
AH Suburbs, and Ballarat.
No . 271 H.
Special
Gentlemen's
"Zephyr” Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 H.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d
Robert Hurst
MELBOURNE, all , . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
'
The ONLY Rupture Specialist I
/ AM THE ONLY RUPTURE SPECIALIST
iN AUSTRALIA MAKING THIS OFFER.
m
A REMARKABLE
OFFER !
/ will refund money to any patient who,
after a month’s treatment of the
Sherman Method of curing Rupture, is
not absolutely satisfied.
THIS
DR. J. A. SHERMAN RUPTURE CURE
is a radical cure for all forms of Rupture no matter how old
the sufferer or of how long standing, jj
It cures and cures to stay cured, and is the only treatment
that CAN cure.
I have testimonials without number from people in all
walks of live who have been absolutely cured by the Sherman
Treatment. If you have tried other so-called “cures” and
received no benefit from them I want you to test the Sherman
Treatment at MY risk.
TWO BOOKS
—FREE .
Fill in this form and post to me and I will send you
two remarkable books on Rupture.
Nome
Address
HOURS—Daily (Sundays excepted) from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
EXTRA HOURS—Tuesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
12.30 noon.
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 Hunter-st., Sydney.
m
Medicated
TABLETS.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing stamps, to
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin!
BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GOUT
IS OUR heritage, and what
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
/?’s
GOUT
PILLS
Is tlie Great Englis;. Cure for GOUT, and all
RIIEUMAIIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
BO restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. IJd. and 2». 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies,
Don't
waste time in
expenmen ti ng.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increase
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
to be the WO ULUS CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can bi obtained from
any Chemist or & tore,
and Sayes Many
Lives.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
mm
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If tiiis inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
' he sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism.Sciutica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingukstkr & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemista
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy!
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdisstrb & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by th it justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL VERVOUS TROLBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all. who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDUEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
"imperial.” Umperial
chemists ft stores.
* *
©intment
r Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
cpmplete without it. Pots 2/-.
Post 2/2 from Proprietary.Melb.
Making Money
I was bom on a Maine farm. I have made some"
threat successes in business. My greatest through
Co-operation.
I took $1,500 f j£306:2:6) capital, supplied by
Farmers, Women, Physicians, Clerks, Clergymen,
etc., in Belfast, Maine, and in an honest, but very
profitable business, earned and paid them through
BELFAST NATIONAL BANK, $5,000 (£1,020:8:2)
in Cash dividends in the first six months, $25,000
(£5,102:0:10) in cash dividends, ■within the next
year, and in 18 months I paid them in round
numbers $330,000.00 (£67,346:19:2) CASH.
Every 4s. Earned £ 44:17s
lE. F. Hanson, Ex-Mayor
of Belfast, Me..TJ.B.A.
Ex-Pres. B. & M. L. B. B,
This is HISTORY. Reads
like a fairy tale but it is
TRUE. I made poor
people rich. They helped
me earn the riches. Just
read that over again. I
had $1,500. I earned
and paid my stockholders
$330,000 In cash In IS
months. Every stock-
holder got their share.
That’s my Way of doing
business. You must be-
lieve this statement is
TRUE, for, if I were lying,
I wouldn’t tell you the
place where I earned the
money, and the BANK
where it was paid.
I have learned,the great
Value of the right kind of
co-operation, learned how
to make money fast in an
honest, profitable busi-
ness from which millions
are made every year.
I now have a new busi-
ness of the same kind,
only my field is the World.
It is incorporated under
the laws of the State of
Maine and the U. S. Gov’t. The Stockholders are
absolutely protected from any liability. They are,
safe guarded by law. My plan one of extended co-
operation. Stockholders everywhere who can give
me information and lend their INFLUENCE. The
dividends must be large.
I already have 4,000 stockholders in the TJ. S.,
Canada, England, Cuba, Mexico, Sandwich Islands,
Gibraltar, etc. I want a few more. The shares
are going fast. You can invest 4s. or £IOO.
Monthly payments, if you wish. It will be safe
and we will make it grow. This is no gambling
or “shady” scheme. It’s legitimate business.
You will be treated squarely and honestly.
I place 30 years of untarnished business record
behind that statement. I only ask you in your
own interest to INVESTIGATE. You shall have all
the Proof you want. References, Bankers, Bus-
iness Men, Church and Public Officials, etc. Send
your address on a postal card. It will pledge
you to nothing. It may mean your fortune. I
will send a 24-page book,
“A Guide to Full Pockets,”
FREE. I will pay the postage. Don’t be “A Brother
to the Ox.” Stop plodding. Lift your head long
enough to ask me to prove every statement in this
ad. This is your opportunity, don't miss it. Don’t
Wait if you want something betterthanyouhavegot.
E. E. Hanson, 142-160 W. Madison Street,
Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
MILLER’S FREE GIFT
to advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS.
Feather Ends Free with Every Order under 5/-, enclosing this Advertisement.
FEATHER ORNAMENTS, VALUE 1b, GIVEN FREE WITH EVERY
MAIL ORDER OVER 5b—FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
CUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT and Post with your Order.
KJ
MILLER
OSTRICH
Black, White, Creami
Natural, or Black
tipped with White.
6/
Length, 12 inches.
Post free.
The Feathers we offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Buy to-day, or write
for one. Send Postal Note or Money
Order to John Miller.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE.
m
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Farms of Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length 10 inches..
3 for 10/-
There’s a charm about
Miller’s Ostrich Tips no
other trimming can impart.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length 1J yards.
PLUMES
m
From the
Famous Farms
of South Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, Natural,
or Black aud
White mixed.
(15 inches)
10/6
Post
Free
There is practi-
cally nothing
more becoming
to the average woman than the
soft sotting given her face and
herd by really good feathers.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY.
mm
This New
Fashionable Mount,
2 Tips with Osprey,
Black, Cream, or
Black tipped with
White.
3/
The Bunch.
Post free.
We make this SPECIAL
OFFER to advertise out
Ostrich Tips. Write to-
day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Corner Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNEY
Also at Cor. Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne. Mention The Bulletin.
AN AID TO BEAUTY.
OSTRICH TIPS—
Black, Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
Post Free any address
3 for 6/-
(Six Shillings).
m
No woman who cares about her appearance can afford
to be indifferent to Ostrich Plumes—an aid which helps
to her attainment of beauty.
BIRTHDAY PRESENTS.
m
I L
Black, White,
Oream, Natural,
or Black and
White mixed.
(18 inchei)
21A
As a trimming
nothing can
equal a good
Ostrich Feather
in a Lady’s Hat.
They look soft and graceful, therefore
eminently becoming for young and old.
AN IDEAL GIFT
w
FOR THE LADIES.
Natural Boas
(Length, 1£ yards)
42/-
The Finest we have ever
shown, beautiful quality,
thick and heavy. Boas equal
to ours cannot be bought for
twice the money in any other
house.
Fasteners Free with
every Boa.
jY°i Y[o~o-. JeJC, 400 §.
Che Bank of Prosperity, Limited
(Q
cf - ( p £e_M_-
5 i-ucf-. cJ /La-£-o-/c.
46-/6-6
W- O- *<-
13
YOUR
CHEQUE
FOR
£46-10-0
Will make the first payment on a 36 m. x 60 in. “Niagara
II” Thresher.
The Thresher can easily be made to earn the balance of its
ayments before they fall due.
The “Niagara II” will thresh 2000 bushels per day, which
is nearly double a usual day’s work, making it an
exceptional money maker for threshermen.
It makes a good sample and wastes surprisingly little grain.
We can refer you to plenty of satisfied users.
USP’-Send for catalogue now, and get one of these
Threshers in time for coming season.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Launceston, and Christchurch.
Cockle’s Rntibilious Pills.—*
*' Ido not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of L
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
Jl\e Xarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
27?* British jfiedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
w
V
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
»nd tKe AGED.
Benqer's fooD is sold in Tin 9
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
Premier Bent, in ’62, was an unsuccessful
applicant for the position of secretary to the shire
council of Moorabbin (Vic.) at a salary of £4O per
annum. As rate collector for the borough of
Brighton he subsequently made his election to the
Leg. Assembly a certainty by frequently paying
out of his own pocket the rates of impecunious de-
faulters.
Some American papers publish a romantic
yarn about Edward Vll.’s unmarried daughter.
The lady has lately been cruising in the 1 loyal
yacht, and travelling in Scotland, ostensibly for
the good of her health. The Yankee story goes
that, eight years ago, a young English bookbinder,
earning about £2 a week, fell in love with the
Princess on seeing her, for the first time, in the
street. He went searching for photographs of
her, wrote a poem about one, put it in an elabo-
rate binding, and sent it to her. A letter of
thanks encouraged him to send another beauti-
fully-bound poem, and he continued to dash off
poems till the Princess fell ill a few months ago.
Queen Alexandra then took charge of her cor-
respondence, and through opening a mailed parcel
containing a new poem became acquainted with
these facts. She informed the King. The young
man was arrested, and now languishes in a lunatic
asylum, or a dungeon, or a hencoop, or some other
square substance, while all the documents at his
lodgings, including his wash-bill, have been placed
under seal. The Princess, it is said, has never
seen the bookbinder, but his poems have had a
great effect on her feelings. This is not surprising
in view of the samples quoted. For instance,
this is about the photo :
Princess in the quiet nook,
Eyes of brown and manner tender,
Pray what are your cozy thoughts—
With your feet upon the fender?”
The great Amurrikan press reckons that King
Ned ought to take the poet out of the Tower of
London, or the coal-cellar, or wherever he is.
knight him, and “ place him in the true rank to
which he is entitled as a man of great talent.”
Embling, M.L.C. (Vic.), who married a
rich wife, made money out of a big medical prac-
tice, and owns shares in half the financial concerns
in Melbourne, remarked airily the other evening,
when the question of youths’ wages was under
discussion, “ Pooh ! A boy has to learn his busi-
ness. My son only got £lO a year when he went
into Sargood’s warehouse first.” Whereupon
Evans retorted that it was a good thing young
Embling had a rich father to buy his food and
clothes. By the way, the infinitesimal wage of
the youthful Embling directs attention to the
fact that warehouses and other glorified shops
get a great deal of cheap labor by investing
their concerns w’ith an air of mystery. Anybody
would think that selling socks was a learned pro-
fession to hear some of these stout persons dis-
coursing on “ The Trade,” with a big T, and the
idea is spreading. The time may yet come when
some enterprising contractor will set forth that his
brilliant system, extracted out of the dead lan-
guages, of carrying bricks up a ladder can only be
mastered after five years’ hard study, and he will
take apprentices at a shilling a week during the
first three years to teach them the profession. He
may even demand a premium.


Perspiration and Dust,
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
weather, can easily be removed by using
CARBOLIC
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Garbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
THE LONDON TREATMENT
FOR THE
inebriety# grog Addiction
17TVERYONE interested in the work of
1 J Reclaiming Victims of DRINK or
DRUG- HABIT should be familiar with the
Treatment used at the London Institute.
Full particulars sent Post Free on appli-
cation. Address —
H. W. BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, Master ton,
New Zealand.
BOOKS
SOLD
SIR ROBERT!
i
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1901 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is (id. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
WoitKSiior llandybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Od. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s (id. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s (id. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Drganier's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
OIHNIQI Y'S PIiIXKT, WOMAN, AND THE CONFESSIONAL,
Is (id posted, Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave. ls; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Yam? on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made E.t'sy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cel.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man-
-11 is Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s (id. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure. I s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is Gd. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established SO Yean.
h!o Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, lij.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, ls2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s Od post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll's Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, is post. Tiie.
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. N ervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary; 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, niv price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound,‘los Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete). Is Od posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
f>s Od posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Pleptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Od each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d > dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
R ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
WEAK I¥SE!N! CURED FREE.
&
I
\ \
\
WE have the most powerful and practical cure
ever yet invented for the positive, certain, and
radical cure of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak
Back or Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and
Stomach troubles, and all other weaknesses of vital
Earts ;in fact, all chronic diseases. In 20 years we
ave cured 50,000 weak men and women. Our method
cannot possibly fail. No matter what other treatment or belt you
may have used, WE WILL CURE YOU, and we are so positive of
the tremendous therapeutic properties of our latest improved Belt
that we wdll send our Latest Model Full Power No. 8 Belt complete,
with all attachments, to any person writing us, and you can wear it
for ninety days, and you only
FAY WHEN CURED-
This is the most generous offer yet made, in order thoroughly to
introduce throughout the State this splendid Belt.
Our Belt Generates a Powerful Vitalising Current of
Electricity, which can be felt the instant applied.
You can wear it at night. It cures while you sleep. If you are weak
or ailing in any way, if you are not the man or woman Nature intended
you to be, then try our Belt. It will cure you. If not, it won’t cost
you a penny.
We have just published a New and Beautifully Illustrated Medical Book,
which is absolutely
FREE TO AXmlm
writing-to us. It will interest and help every adult reading-it; so delay no
longer, but write to-day for our FREE BOOK and Powerful Belt. Write to-day.
The Dr, Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept, w
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.JB, —New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
V\'e are receiving' Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
\sm£m-
m
m
v
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will forward Free 24 Packets of our
“ Enamel Tcoth Powder and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominal price of Gd each , and
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
m
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free . The continued systematic use of this
Powder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth,
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard and healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the Breath.
We don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders , and we will at
once forward you Free ciny prize you may select from the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we send with the powders, This offer , made for a
limited period to extend our already large connection , is surely the most liberal ever
made try a Reliable Firm. Remember , our Prizes are not Rolled Gold ’ Gold Filled,
or Gold Pattern , but
(hall marked.) SOLID GOLD , (guaranteed.)
Free. wmc ,o ' dav
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
A G PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AITD
RESTCPES EYFLPSHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
I\i EVER F"AIL-C.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
««
CURED
“Crackajack
Mouth Organs
The “ Crackajack" illustrated below presents not only the very latest improvements,
but is unquestionably the best and most beautiful toned Mouth-Organ made.
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. The frames
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the retd plates are solid
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
in volume? and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through-
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass,
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed. It is impossible
to fully describe these
instruments and their
musical qualities.
They must be seen
and used to be
appreciated. We
can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
f&MM.
0
H
tm
j fO|
$BBBlB
% K mmm2 tjCF® «X»p
m
0
I ‘fib> :
i
-fv**
G^'
.o*
p*°'
ft*'
,S'°
AO
.O*
31*
Made in Four Styles
POSTED TO ANY
ADDRESS IN THE
World for 4d.
EXTRA.
No. 1 Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds 31-
No. 2 Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds * 27-
No. 3 Grackaiack Junior, 20 Reeds - 1/6
No. 4 Boss Cracker * • *l/-
ALLAN & CO., 276=278 Collins 5t., Melbourne.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
THE
‘PLUM’
m
THE
‘PLUM’
/GENTLEMEN, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. Od. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in Ivorj' Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
SOLE AGENTS:
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
DC - Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
S YDiXTE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SH EPSKXNS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SEI2IS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers tor tree storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.


GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART, TASMANIA.
The TRUSTEES will carry on the businesses under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and
Special Supervision of a representative of the Government, WIIHOUT ANA" lIS 1 EI!MISSION, and under the same
management as during past years. .
The Trustees in the Estate of the Late GEORGE ADAMS still continue his BREWERY and other Businesses in
HOBART, and money may be paid through any BANK in Australasia to the credit of the TRUSTEES in the Estate ot
the Late GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, and any EIRM regularly communicating with
Hobart. Depositors, when doing so, will please request the BANK to advise the TRUSTEES of amount, with their
name and full address.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
m
14 1 firmly believe that if the children
were well fed our workhouses, gaols and
asylums, would soon be empty.”
-Sir JOHN GORST, M.P
ONE CUP
D2licious OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Equals in nutriment |-lb. Beef or Ten Cups of
ordinary Cocca.
And is absolutely free from all chemicals.
Aids Digestion. Braces the Nerves.
Invigorates the System.
‘•lt is able to support Life.”— The Lavcct..
KEEP YOUR.
BILLS DOWN
Py
Purchasing
YOUR CLOTHING
FROM
ttricoln, Stuart
$ Co.
Ctd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
1
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Wri e for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
TUB
FA. MOXJS REMEDY FOD
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence.
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate^ relief
forting
never been
ami ,i Complete Cure BEWARE OTP COTJGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT. AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION
Pain or
ondertui influence. tlie Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
iss in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relict ; and to those wlO aie su >ji o > Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
;in allaying irritation in the tbroat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough IA. be willlou t it as taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with tins medicine. Iso house should be without it, as,
TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—ln 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds pf chemists,
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me’ to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to neatly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of vour Bron'chitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River —three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine y but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to trv your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and dowp a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
CONGESTION OF TH i LUNGS.
A BAD CASE QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED. ;
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Sir, —Will you please send me some medicine for the
following illness A fortnight ago I had Influenza, and
it settled on the lungs.. I now have congestion of the
lungs ; the doctor says so, but his treatment has not done
me any good. My breathing is short, and I have a short
cough and a frothy-white spit; my sides are sore to
the touch, and painful. It hurts me to lie down. I
am very weak, and I perspire a lot at night, and my body
and lungs feel burning. lam getting worse. I feel
worse to-day. Please post the necessary medicine to
Sorrento, and I will send you the money, and oblige,
M. J. BOXELL,
Relieving Postmistress, Sorrento, Victoria.
The treatment sent effected a complete cure, as the
following letter testifies :
Mr. Hearne. ...
Dear Sir,—-Many thanks for the medicine. I herewith
enclose postal note in payment. lam much obliged to
you for sending the medicine so promptly. It has done
me a lot of good ; in fact, I have quite recovered.
M. J. BOXELL.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great'many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
•J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir,—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“ VV. TR EM ELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a g'reat many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883-fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states:— I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.”
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to • use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS, WOOTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
.- F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,— Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottles of it, as
I would not" like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
DarLnghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE —Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- Q ffice . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


A Melbourne pawnbroker entices passers-
by with the notice : “For the convenience of cus-
tomers we will take small pledges at threepence
each, the interest thereon being one penny.” And
the thirsty morning wayfarer promptly pawns his
waistcoat or something to provide the price of a
foaming pint at the pub. opposite.
Be good
to yourself
by using
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
FOR MAKING TIN LIKE SILVER.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical SEedicine at tie University, writes—
Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipa-
tion, venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose.— A tv.'neglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a similar quantity
of hot or cold water .
m
Mots the name “ Hunyatli Janos,” the signature of tho proprietor
ANDREAS SAXLEHfi’EU. and the Medallion, on t.’:o Red Centre
Part of tho Labe’.
SEVERE
D
D
REMEDIED.
A BAKER PRAISES ZAM-BUK
BUHNiS and scalds may vary
from the merest scorch-
ing or blister to ex-
tensive injuries. In all
such cases the application of
Zam-Buk should be made with
the least possible delay. By so
doing the heat will be drawn out,
the pain subdued, and a new
natural layer of skin will be
quickly formed. Mr. J. Andrew,
a baker, of Cohuna, Victoria,
says : —“ I received your sample pot of
Zam-Buk at an opportune moment. I had
just finished a heavy night’s work in the
bakehouse, and whilst at the oven was
burnt severely on the arm. I applied the
Zam-Buk, and its soothing influence was
wonderful. After a second application on
the following day all the soreness had been
removed, and two days later my arm was
as sound as ever. I have never before
used anything that approaches Zam-Buk
in its healing capacity, and I feel sure it
will prove to be ‘The Baker’s Friend.’
Personally, I will never be without it, and
can confidently say that when Zam-Buk’s
value is generally known amongst the
trade, no bakehouse will be without a pot.”
Burns and blisters are everyday accidents in the household, and in such
pot of Zam-Buk kept ready to hand will save much suffering.
cases a
:\
\
Ik
fl 7 - it
s$
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUIL
mm
THE home “first-aid.
Retrospective.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
man who arrives in the trim, spick-
and-span town of Balclutha to-day won-
ders why the place ever became the pioneer
prohibition district of Maoriland, but had he
passed through it from 15 to 20 years ago, he
would have marvelled that it did not adopt the
blue ribbon of a grogless life long before it did.
Prohibition was only the natural rebound of pub-
lic opinion in the place where the drink traffic
showed its most appalling demoralisation.
And yet drink was only partly responsible for
the depravity of Balclutha in the dark ages.
Much of it was due to the character of the early
settlers of the district. The gold-seekers were a
wild and fast-living crowd, and the euliest
settlers on the land seem to have been thoroughly
bad specimens. The small farmers, of course,
married, and brought up large families of long,
gaunt, raw-boned lads and slatternly girls. The
district always seemed to be peculiarly deficient in
people of any refinement, and the squatters were
mostly dour old Scotch by terians, like the Carsons
of In vergary—red-haired, blue-eyed savages whose
whiskers consisted of isolated tufts of coarse,
sandy hair. Donald Carson never wore trousers
in his life, and in death he and his kilt
were not divided, neither was his “ bonnet taken
from him. Colin Carson did become sufficiently
civilised, through rheumatism in the knees, to
wear what he called “short clothes,” which were
just big, baggy knickerbockers.
Neither of these typical old reprobates ever
married. Their home was a rambling wooden
house, all gables and detached verandahs, over
the doors of which were painted in letters of
Seotchbyterian blue the words, “The Auld
Hoose.”
Their housekeepers consisted of a long preces-
sion of “lassies,” chosen from the surrounding
farms—unkempt females, who spoke with an
accent ; and they not only milked the “kine,”
made haggis and kail-soup, but also provided the
Carsons with a family till there were nine
children romping and fighting about The Auld
Hoose. The only thing to the credit of the Car-
sons was that this unlawful family was kept at the
home of its fathers, and had its creature comforts
properly looked after. Also, it was taught to
skirl the pipes and dance reels, and was thor-
oughly educated by a tutor, specially brought out
from Scotia for the purpose.
In those days to be, or have been, a barmaid, or
even a waitress in some of the hotels of Balclutha,
was to have the finger of scorn pointed at a woman
for the rest of her life, and the place was a fester-
ing sink where the sly-grog shops were infinitely
more respectable than the licensed hotels. After
dark the streets were not safe for respectable
women and girls to traverse unprotected. Some
foul-mouthed drunkard was sure to ome reeling
round dark corners howling and swearing, and
ready to grab the first object that had the slightest
indications of femininity about it. At night all
the rooms, even private bedrooms, in the hotels
would be filled with a drinking crowd, playing
either Yankee grab or euchre for a shilling a throw
or r i l “ fi°b ” a corner, every third one a wet one.
The only other pastimes that received the
slightest attention were lawn tennis and horse-
racing. Politics were unheeded, and even football
a neglected art.
Balclutha, as its name implies, is on the Ciutha
or Molyneaux River, and the first thing a child is
taught in the schools in that district is that the
Ciutha discharges more water per day than even
the Nile, and the Nile is held up as something
stupendous in the way of water dischargers. By
reason of the river, evening arrives at Balclutha
m company with a fog so thick that a man’s left
hand doesn’t know what liquor his right is lifting.
Also, it gets down one’s throat, stops up his ears,
and makes grass and shrubs vast reservoirs of
water.
* * * *
The last night I spent in Balclutha Colin Carson
arrived at the hotel where I was living just as tne
fog blotted out the river and the town was going
aj'j-*' o c^nner \ Tn that foggy climate everyone
b&d dinner at night. I had just sat down when a
red-faced, aggressive Scot lurched into the dining-
room and crashed down partly on the chair next
me, but mostly on me.
t 1? j U . rse d him in Gaelic, in which awful language
1 had learned to swear fluently. He wriggled off
on to the chair, stared at me in amazement, and
replied :
‘ Why, ye dam-ned rat, a could ha’ swor-un ve
were Southron ”
Wlmt else he would have remarked was cut off
by the arrival of the waitress, who inquired would
he take soup. _ He swung himself round and
roared, “ Haggis, wench ! ”
She explained there was no haggis—haggis was
off ; had never been on, in fact. Colin wriggled
turther round to make remarks and saw that the
girl was tall, broad-hipped and wide-shouldered,
and was struck dumb for the moment. She cer-
tainly was Junoesque. Her complexion was all
cream and roses, her eyes were grey, and
although she weighed 12 stone she was so splen-
didly proportioned, she had the dignified grace of
a vast liner among harbor ferry boats.
Carson rose groggily from his chair, breathed
on her, and extending one hand as though about
to a benediction, burst out:—
“ Ma conscience, lass, but ye are the right sort
tne draw custoom tae a hoose. Say the wor-ud,
an Colin Carson will tak’ ye this nicht tae
In vergary and mak’ ye head hoosekeeper ! ”
Ihe poor girl was only a few days in the place,
but she had heard all about the Carsons of
Invergary. ;She flushed red at the brutal insult,
and the more brutalroar of laughter which greeted
it from the table. Still there was none of the
shrinking fawn about her, and she drew a back-
hander across Carson’s gray-russet-fringed mouth,
which sent him to the boards with an awful
smash.
The crowd shrieked, but as the old man
scrambled to his feet, a bank clerk entered and
informed the startled company that Tommy Ah
Poo had won £9O from Barden, the commission
agent, at Yankee grab, and actually got the
money.
After that there was no more conversation.
Every man ate in haste ; he was anxious to get
away quickly and find Tommy Ah Foo before
anyone else cleaned him out. Even Colin Carson
forgot all about the Junoesque waitress, and
wolfing his food rushed to the bar in a hurry.
'* Whar’s yon pagan wha won the ninety poond ?
A 11 ‘grab’ wi’ him,” he shouted.
that Tommy Ah Foo was up at the
Maori and the Moa,” the company rushed
wildly out, Colin well in front.
I was just preparing to follow when Tommy Ah
Foo walked in, accompanied by the Resident
-Magistrate, the Inspector of Police, the senior
sergeant, Dr. Pryke, bank-manager Kirk, the
I ostmaster, and the Railway Station-master.
The Pagan was dressed in a light check suit;
his trousers were skin-tight, and his boots of the
Cook bain variety, with enormous wide welts, and
polished like a mirror. His check suit was adorned
with mother-of-pearl buttons ; his"collar lifted his
ears ; and his straw hat had a red, white, and blue
ribbon round it. He banged the gong loudly,
and with authority.
The tall, handsome waitress floated in. Her
cheeks were flushed ; her eyes had a glitter in
them.
“ Bling ’em basin, and sammypane, you know,
go pop, fizz—by Cli, me wiunem hundred twenty
pong t’ni’—you welly fire gel, by gob.”
The waitress tossed her head and sailed out.
The landlord brought the champagne himself and
carefully collected payment before uncorking it.
Then Juno appeared with a wash-hand basin,
which she bumped into the middle of the table
with a giggle.
“ Hi, Mistier, bling em more sammypane, rnissie
dlink sammy pane.” To J uno :“ I wiunem ninety
pong t’hi’, rnissie.”
“Here, this isn’t a mashing match, Ah Foo,”
said the R.M., roughly. “ What is it —a crown a
pop ? ”
“I no care. Any plully thing you like. I play
em one pong a pop, you like ! ”
“ All tight, make it a crown !.” said Manager
Kirk, putting down two half-crowns.
“Better you make it one pong, I think; me
very great hurry.”
The rest of the superior race put down two half-
crowns each, and the Pagan grabbed the box and
rattled the dice.
There was a yell from the R.M.
“ Put down that box, you idiot ! Curse your
impudence ! Do you think gentlemen of our posi-
tion are going to ‘grab’with a Chinese cook in
a public room ? ”
“No matter. Evelybody know you alleesame
damn logues.”
The R.M. walked to the door with the basin
under his arm, and the rest of us followed him up-
stairs, to a private parlor, where a fire burned
brightly, and the table was covered with cushions.
“All li’, this welly much better ; me thlow ? ”
He threw 21, but the Station-master tied with
him ; they threw off, and Tommy won.
It was a silent, deadly-earnest gamble and even
the drinks were ordered in semi-whispers. First
of all Tommy won furiously and wanted the
stakes raised from a crown to a sovereign a throw.
The whites steadily shook their heads. Then the
Station-master sailed in and won pool after pool
till the Postmaster took a hand at mopping up
the lucre for half an hour. After that his "luck
turned and he fell on the floor, gnashed his teeth
and tried to bite everybody who went near him.
The doctor kicked him heavily in the ribs :
“Get up, you howling fraud; get up and put
up your stuff like a man.”
“Yes, by gosh, you can’t sneak out like that,”
said the sergeant, trying to grab him by the neck
and getting bitten for his trouble.
“ Oh, let him go ! ” snarled Kirk.
The Postmaster threw his head back and
howled like a dog. To stop the horrible noise the
landlord poured the contents of the water-jug
over him, and the saturated wretch went out on
all fours, taking his bogus epilepsy with him. At
the same moment Colin Carson rushed in with
a whoop :
“Stop, ye pagan, A’m in this, ye ken. Hoo
mooch—-a croon; the guid Lord defend us.
Doctor, ar’l bet ye a poond the heathen
doesna throo ower 15.”
“Done!” yelled the doctor. “Throw, you
yellow chimpanzee, an’ if you don't beat 15 I’ll
operate on you with me pocket-knife.”
“ All li! ” said Tommy, scoring 21 at a throw,
and gathering up the money, while the Scot
impugned the purity of his descent.
At 10 p.m. Carson threw down the box in
disgust. He had shared the losses with Kirk and
the R.M.
“Mis new dice we want, A’m thinkin’. Pe
tatnned ! what luck could we hae —whoever lieerd
o’ gamblin’ in a dish ; ’tis the nakked back o’ a
wumman we require ! All no play more till we
hae a wumman table. Yon wench who serv-ed
the soop we’ll hae, an’ none other.”
The landlord was doubtful. The lass hadn't
been long enough in the place to know the customs
of the district. Truly, she was drunk, but not so
drunk as all that. He would place their offer
before her.
“Only if she is in a proper state of mind to
transact business, you know !” said the R.M., in
a legal way.
“No; we’re here to defend the public!” said
the sergeant.
The landlord went off, looking serious.
In two minutes he returned with a piece of
steak on his eye, We knew she had refused
emphatically. Play was resumed in the “dish.”
Tommy Ah Foo won again till 11 p.m., when
there was a diversion. The landlord announced
that Juno had changed her mind and would
accept the terms offered, and had authorised him
to collect the money. Tommy Ah Foo, as chief
winner, paid over the sovereign, and a few
minutes later saw Juno, stripped to the waist,
carried in by the groom and the landlord and laid
comfortably among the cushions. She was in a
state of torpor, and introduced a new element of
uncertainty into the game by rolling occa-
sionally. Tommy’s luck went out bang. Every
time he threw 21 Juno would roll over or move,
and as the rules were that the dice must stop roll-
ing, Tommy went down every time.
He wanted to go back to the “dish,” but Car-
son scouted the idea, although he said the
“ nakked back o’ the wumman ” hadn’t brought
him any luck. At 1 a.m. he retired and sat down.
At 1.30 a.m. Tommy sold his ruby scarf-pin to
the Station-master ; twenty minutes later he dis-
posed of his opal sleeve-links to Kirk; and a
quarter of an hour afterwards borrowed a crown
from me for a last chance. Then he proposed that,
as he had paid for the table whose coming had
changed his luck the company should make it up.
The company refused ; we were afraid his luck
might change, and the weeping, cursing Tommy
was quietly dropped outside by the landlord. The
game dropped. Juno was fast asleep now, and
was carried away.
The landlord said it was “up to him,” and
brought in some more champagne, and the conver-
sation turned on physical beauty and running-
ability. The bank manager bet the sergeant he
was more like Apollo Belvidere than the limb of
the law. The betting became fei-ocious, and
Tommy Ah Foo's money threatened to roll. The
publican offered to act as referee, and, when the
pair had undressed, he decided in favor of the
bank manager. After that the R.M. bet the
beauty candidates they weren’t game to run a
race down the street as they stood.
They took him up enthusiastically, and, in spite
of the protests of the landlord, proceeded to the
street to settle the bet.
The R.M. backed the sergeant. He said he
had so much practice chasing malefactors that he
must win.
The Doctor backed Kirk, and said he knew that
magnate was in constant preparation against the
day that opportunity to sprint with the contents
of the safe should present itself.
Then the landlord closed the front door with a
bang, and, as I rushed to the upstairs parlor
window, I saw it was a clear moonlight night, and
two white forms were streaking down the road
like lost souls. The belated drunks ditched
one another and knew they’d got ’em again, as the
Apollo-like bank manager shot past the sergeant
and disappeared round the corner; and then
trotted back under the verandahs. The worst
noise in that noisy street was the voice of the
B.M. cur.-ing the sergeant, first for having taken
him up, and second, far losing the race when his
Worship had backed him.
I left Balclutha next morning. Most of that
night s company also left it shortly afterwards—
some of them for Her Majesty’s gaol, for embezzle-
ment Shortly after, Balclutha sobered up, and
went for Prohibition, straight and undiluted.
THE RAKE.


HAVE YOU
KIDNEY TROUBLE?
until Tfl TCI 1 Does every cold affect the back,
iIUW I U 1 CLL causing chilliness, uneasiness,
or pain
? Are there urinary
troubles, sediment, "ravel, pains in the sides or loins ? Do
you suffer from dizziness, rheumatism, headache, neur-
algia ? Is the skin sallow, the flesh swollen and flabby,
the sight dim? Are you easily worried or tired out?
Do you get depressed and hopeless ?
Health depends on the kidneys. Look after them, and
when you do not feel as well as you ought give vour kid-
$
\
I
- -j
ZZS
8?
KJ
/
“Every Picture Tells a Sco.
neys help, in
Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney
Pills. This
medicine is
special kidney-
help ; all its
healing powers
go to the kid-
neys. It aids
the kidneys in
their great
work, it soothes
and heals the
tired kidney
merabran es,
dissolves crys-
tallised uric
acid, and keeps
the body free
from kidney
poisons. Your
neigh bors—
Sydney people
—have been
cured to stay
o u red b y
Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney
Pills. Head
the following
testimony :
Sydney People Cured.
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this
city, says:—“For about three years I suf-
fered with kidney derangement. The worst
symptom was a constant backache, which
became more painful whenever I stooped
much. I tried many remedies'for this com-
plaint, and the results were anything but
beneficial, but lioan’s Backdche Kidney Pills
permanently cured me. It is over twelve
months since I used these pills, and I’ve had
no return of the old pain.”
Four years later, Mrs. Mullins informs us
that she is still well. “ I have never had a
sign .of . the complaint since,” she . says.
“ They are splendid pills, and have made a
great difference in my health. The per-
manent cure in my case speaks for itself.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. Sd. per box
(six koxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Cc., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. W. James, Tobacconist, Manly,
states :—“Five years ago I took a course of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they
cured me of pains in the back, and strength-
ened my kidneys, I had been suffering with
this trouble a good while, and it was the first
medicine to do me good. T’ve been quite
free of the ailment ever since. I’ve never
taken a pill or had any treatment for the
kidneys whatever. It is solely Doan s Back-
ache Kidney Pills which cured me. Any-
body who suffers with the kidneys should
use this remedy. I can recommend it. Five
years is a good test.”
m
'
tMU
I
■ i
•i . . .
ECZEMA.
Nothing spoils a good disposition quicker.
Nothing taxes a man’s patience
Nike any irritation of the skin.
Piles almost drive you mad.
All day they make you miserable.
All night they keep you awake.
Just the same with Eczema.
Such miseries are daily decreasing.
People are learning they can be cured.
Learning the merit of Doan’s Ointment.
Plenty of proof that Doan’s Ointment will
cure ...
Piles, Eczema, or any irritation of the skin.
Read the tt stimony of a Sydney woman
Mrs. E. Fitch, 36 Wattle-street, this city,
says:—“ Doan’s Ointment cured my little boy
of” Eczema about three and half years ago,
and he has remained free of this terrible
complaint ever since. For eight months he
was suffering with this complaint it was all
over his body, and it was worse about the
head, under the arms, and down the legs.
But, as a matter of fact, it was bad all over
him, and very itchy. The hair came off his
head, and we had to keep him covered up all
over to prevent him from scratching. Medi-
cal treatment did him no good, nor did the
various remedies which we tried, ihe neigh-
bors said that nothing would ever do him any
good. But lam glad to say that Doan s
Ointment started to relieve him as soon as L
applied it, and in three days a very great im-
provement could be seen. We used five pots
to effect a cure, and he has not had a blemish
on his skin since.” , „ . ,
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists
and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by T oster-
McClelian Co., 70 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S. W. -.--g
Remember the name —DOArs S.
The Secret Stink.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Suggested by (1) Victorian Butter Commission dis-
closures, (2) N.SAV. Land Scandals.
f is a Smell that lurketli within its
I secret lair —
A Smell which sleeps below, us with reptiles
in its hair !
An Aged Fragrance snoring beneath our careless
feet,
W e tramp around it daily upon our business-beat.
We circum-ambulate it in unsuspecting glee—
When that Stench breaks from its moorings where
will our humor be ?
When that awful Perfume rises, as it is bound to
rise,
The boom in disinfectants will tower unto the
skies!
In silent hours creep pilgrims—they journey to
the Stink —
Fat men whose feet are balanced upon Perdition’s
brink !
They creep at night to worship within that fearful
shrine —
They fill its lair with incense, they burn their
candles nine!
“Dear Stink,” they pray, “sleep soundly—wake
not till we are dead ;
Great Odor, lie and slumber upon thy dreadful
fc bed 1
fyVake not, O Ancient Horror; dream on, Almighty
Smell,
•Lest we who pose as Righteous should slump to
depths of Hell! ”
With reverent hands they touch it and soothe
their secret Stink;
“Keep us immune,” they murmur, “from death
and printer’s ink !
Let death come first if need be —keep off the
awful Peti
That strips the reputation from pious aldermen !
They pat the prostrate Odor (it turneth in its
sleep);
They speak unto it kindly down in its cavern
deep ;
And to the dust in reverence they bow their fore-
heads thrice,
And burn the bogus invoice in hiimble sacrifice.
But there are nights of horror, when life like
Hades seems,
When Commercial Stench ariseth and'walketh in
its dreams.
Its owners smell their property upon the highway
drear—
A lying affidavit protrude,th from its ear.
Its eyes are wide and glassy'; there are reptiles in
its hair.
Back to its cave they guide it with terror and with
care,
But one night it may drift afar, and, sunrise
breaking red,
May show those merchants dragging their lost
Stench home to bed.
VIO.
GRANT HERVEY.
Christmas Day on the Warrego.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FIRST thing to be done is to jump out
of bed, seize the basin of soapy water and
throw it over the dipsomaniac, who, for the
past hour, has been clucking to himself like a
broody hen. The water reaches him just as he is
saying : “ Now, if I had the makings of an Adam
and an Eve.” The shock doesn’t stop his discourse,
but it gives me a certain satisfaction.
It is 112° coolest part of the town. The
little children have their heads sewn up in mos-
quito-netting, as protection against the flies;
horses go mad; men, women and children have
swelled lips and bunged eyes ; the skin is quite
tender with fly bites. Almost everybody is
“ boozed ; ” half are “ paralytic.” We are mainly
scrub-cutters in town—called sheep-caterers, be-
cause the scrub is to keep alive the flocks and
herds. There is plenty of mulga, enough to feed
millions of sheep for many years, so good cheques
have been cut out in that alone. Then there are
cheques from the stations ; fully a third here are
station hands —drivers, teamsters, and also dealers
in fellmongery. The publican says ho never saw
such a time for many years. It is his harvest
from the drought.
The early morning light shows human forms
lying about"anyhow and anywhere ; some huddled
with their chins between their knees, some
stretched out as though they were dead. Nearly
all of them are half naked and bootless. They seem
thickest nearer the bar, because when these men
drink they drink and fall like the British soldier
of the story, who dies right on the battle
spot. None of them are featherbed men ; bare
boards or hard, dusty ground is nothing to
them. Now and again one moves and
crawls and staggers to the bar, to tremblingly
seize the glass with both hands and spill most of
the beer in the effort to drink. It was a busy
part of the town this end last night, though
another publican up the road had engaged the
local brass band to play at his door.
A number have dry scales of blood scattered
over their faces ; they had been fighting just for
the honor of the thing. In these drunken fights
they do not hit each other much; the damage
is done through falling on chaii’s or against
rough walls and corners. Eyes are filmed
with blood ; no one has washed since lie
passed his cheque over the bar for the pub-
lican to mind. They look like demons, which
they are not—only poor, decent fools, good mates,
sunny-hearted, staunch fellows, who have led hard
lives, and who have in them the feeling that every
woman should wear a halo, and her little shoes be
as sacred as the Holy Bible; but they have thirsted
and have much to forget.
Strange how Christmas stirs us. Even here they
have decked the posts with pine saplings and
gidya boughs, and the children blow through gay
trumpets and month-organs. Last night the waits
came and sang “Come all ye faithful” and
“Christians Awake,” and the cheques stopped
bursting awhile to listen. A girl’s voice wasm.dst
beautiful. There was a bush man in the back-shed
who became jealous and started to howl the “ Old
Gray Mare ” and “ The Wild Colonial Boy,” and
kept right on to daylight. He was too far away
for water to reach him.
All day long men are lying about in drink
stupor—not always the same men, of course. In-
doors is a hum like a swarm of bees, only louder ;
every man talks and nobody listens. Now and
again one voice starts above the ruck. “Don’t
turn dog on me, boss. I’ve got a few bob left
yet.” .
One man, a new-comer, walks about with his
right arm a bit shortened—like the Sydney larri-
kin who wishes you to know that he is good
for a “willing go,” without the bad form of
putting it into actual words. This is the bush
“ bluffer ” who comes to the surface in every crowd
of bushmen. He is invariably bush sneak, bush
thief, bush cur. “ I’ll fight any man for 20 quid,”
he says. “It’s easier to fight than work,” he
explained. Later on I hear him, “ You’re a Bel-
gian, you cow ! If you was a Russian Finn, do
you know what I’d do with you ? Why, I’d serve
you like the bloke I did in Westralia. We was
playin' cards in the train, and he pulled out his
knife on me. ‘ Open the blinded door, Mick,’ 1
said to Mick Tierney, what’s dead now. Biff !
When we reached Perth a demon says to me,
‘You was with that Russian Finn when he com
mitted suicide, wasn’t yer?’ I said ‘ Yes.’ ‘How
did it come about?’ says he.. ‘Oh, he just
throwed himself out, and I gave him a little help. ’
‘ Serve ’im right,’ said the demon.”
If you pass a remark on the filthiness or swinish-
ness of one particular person, the bushman may
inform you that he is a barrister, a doctor, or a
derelict aristocrat. They venerate the reputed
scholar most, however. Birth is nothing to them,
but learning is something to be worshipped,
especially learning in rags and degraded. The
most degraded man there is an alleged surveyor.
Sometimes a man will pretend to learning. An
Irishman is sitting by himself studying, and,
suddenly arising, he says to a group.. “ The rule
A is never to be infringed unless it is spoken in
the Grammarian language.” A puzzled silence,
and then “Eh !” said one of the group. “So as
ye may grasp it better, I’ll repate —‘The rule A
is never to be infringed unless it is spoken in the
Grammarian language.’.” “I don’t know that
language,” says one serious fellow. “Well, if it
comes to that, it’s very little anybody knows of it;
but it is simply the language of grammar, The
language of grammar is divided into three persons
—the first, the second, and the third. Now, say
your name is John —well, you’re the first person.
This man may be your son, or Johnson (it don t
matter much), and he would be the second person ;
John, first person, and Johnson, the second
person.” “And who is the third person, Pat?
“ Oh, that’s where the beautiful part of comes
in, and shows the power of religion. We have
the Father, the Son, and consequently the third
person is- the Holy Ghost.” And every man
seems to think hard. ...
The publican has a busy time of it. His wife
and daughter and a girl and the rquseabout are
busy behind the bar. His time is taken up
watching that the police don’t grab any of his
customers. When a bootless, hatless, reeling
wreck rushes into the street he chases him up and
hustles him back into the hotel. Then he watches
for the police when a fight is on. Instantly lie
sees the men in kharki (Queensland police color in
uniforms) coming he stops the fight. He watches
the thieves as well. There is the “ bush bluff ”to
be watched, and others who talk less —men who
pretend to be drunk, and who drop alongside
other paralytic forms as if to sleep. .
What strikes me most is that there is no sing-
ing, no jollity. Everybody is in dead earnest.
Card playing is indulged in, the players sitting
cramped because there are dead-to-the-world indi-
viduals underneath whom they don’t wish to tread
on. The ‘ ‘ bush bluff ’ ’ staggers up to the door and
whines to the cribbage players, ‘‘ I’ll fight any man
fora quid.” “Whisper it, or the boys will hear
you,” says one fellow. “ That’s right, me lad—
that’s right,” says the extinguished, “bluff,” and
stumbles over a man who is talking about the
Gordon Highlanders with his head swaying like a
dahlia on a withered stalk.
“I’ll have to be getting along,” says a man
sitting on the floor, making an ineffectual attempt
to stand up. “ Well, good-bye.” “ I’m not going
yet,” he says; “I’ll let you know when I’m
going,” and he falls asleep across the door, so that
everybody steps over him for the next three or
four hours. There is one genial fellow going
round saying “ Haw, haw, haw.” He is so drunk
that he cannot think of anything else to say.
For Christmas dinner there is roast beef, roast
and boiled fowl, roast and boiled duck, and roast
turkey; followed by stewed apricots, blanc-mange,
jellies in colored glasses, and boiled custard in
white ones, and plum pudding,? and after that
fruit—apples, mangoes,' pineapples, peaches,
oranges, water and rock-melons, and besides that
jugs of beer, lemonade, and ginger-ale;' and tea if t.
you want it. Those who are sober enough come
in on their toes, and sit with their hats jammed
between their knees, or else they put the
hats on the floor under their chairs. The
flies buzz and commit suicide a great deal,
and otherwise seem to enjoy themselves, but
we are too hot, too worried and irritable, and in
almost every case too drunk to have much appe-
tite, so the dinner doesn’t amount to much after
all; the busy folks might have saved themselves a
lot of poultry-plucking and given an equal amount
of satisfaction.
Through the day I drink lemon-squashes only,
and when the darkness hides us from each other I
get into a lonely and cool corner of the balcony
and sit thinking. A boy of nine comes up smok-
ing a cigarette, and he sits down by me and says :
“Well, Mister, have you busted your cheque
yet? S’pose you feel sick and sorry now? You
usually do feel no end of a fool when it’s all gone,
don’t'yer? Was it you lumbered on Monday
night? Was you ever lumbered? The cops
lumbered 17 to-day. Always say a beer or two
does a man good, if he’ll only stop at that. Are
you going to shout, Mister?” Then he goes
away, and I throw myself on my bed and gasp
the hot breathless night away.
ROBERT BROTHERS.
Adelaide is a cold and weary place for the
really enterprising visitor. At the recent Grand
National meeting, three complete strangers were
seen together on the lawn—a suspicious circum-
stance in itself. When a valuable watch was
missed during the afternoon, the police knew just
which boarding-house to go to, and an early Sun-
day morning visit found the three in bed, with the
watch in the room. One man escaped; and at
seven next morning, when he got out of a subur-
ban train at a wayside station, a constable was
waiting on the platform for him ! Whether this
last was a gigantic fluke or a well-planned coup is
uncertain ; but, anyhow, Adelaide is too sin all
and too well-watched to make offences against
property worth trying. The man with a stolen
Watch wants to lose himself in the crowd, and try-
ing that in Adelaide is like a camel trying to mix
'himself up with other camels in a tea-cup.


All Bushmen Use It
Loss of Appetite and General Exhaustion Quickly Corrected. Even
Scurvy is Quickly Cured. A Great Blood-Purifier.
m
Mr. Granger Ward, of Ferndale
Estate, Brisbane, Queensland, sends
us bis photograph, and gives this
very strong testimonial:
“ Some years ago while in America
I had fever and ague, which left me
in a most weak state and quite done
up. I took some of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla and it soon put me to rights,
and my strength returned. I can
safely recommend it to others. I
also in this country had, while in
the hush, an attaok of scurvy, and
I soon got rid of this complaint
through using the same remedy.
For cleansing the blood, and for
eruptions of the skin, I do not think
it can be beat. All bushmen use it. ”
Of course you know very well that the way to cure a disease is first to
nmove the cause. Hence, you say, there is no sense in using ointments and
washes for rashes and eruptions. Neither is there any sense in taking
stimulants for weak nerves. First of all, go down deep to the cause of all
the trouble. You will find it in the blood. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out
all the impurities from the blood and makes it rich and red. Then good
health returns.
Ho other Sarsaparilla is like “Ayer’s ” Sarsaparilla. Do not forget that.
Look out for imitations. They are everywhere. Carefully avoid them.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies, Enriches, Strengthens, Builds Up.
Tak« Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other*
Prepared by DU. J. C. AYBX 00.. I<ow*n. Xaia.. W. S. A.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10AS. wte. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls £ e “ abl * Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
AMUSE THE CHILDREH.
AND YOUNG.
MAGIC LANTERNS.
No. 21, with 12 Slides, If inches wide, 4 views on
each, wiU show a good clear picture, 12/- post
free, anywhere; others, 2/-, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6,
7/6, 30/-, 35/-, 60/- each.
THESE ARE REAL GOOD VALUE.
STEAM and CLOCKWORK ENGINES, All Prices.
Send for Circular No. B.
J. & A. BOYES, IRONMONGERS,
241 & 243 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
m
Easily,’ Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
D*. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
•raring for ail intoxicants will be destroyed, the
serves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing'sleep ensues. My sure will
surprise and delight you.
ONB OF many:
Rarensthonpc, W.A.. 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
• cure. I here no desire for drink, in fact hare a
mpugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully, il-O.
■Write far Treatise, No. S, Posted FREE.
Address •
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S . 6ng.
12D COLLIN* STREET, MtisaosKt.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
m
The only Infallible Remedy TEr WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
end Vitality feo the most weak and shattered
constitutions, send stamps for free pamphlet.
Prioe 125., "VlJur quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and, is. 6d.
Agent*, for Australasia — PEßßY & CO., 47 Quean Bt.,
"»'.albourne; N.S.W.— Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell
•t, Sydney j Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility,yancoce e, etc., no matter how severe
the ease may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Reined'-
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not mqre than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS g
Write To-dav.
Address ;f#ARI/ARO REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth street, Sydney.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPYHE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodjne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWH€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
" If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely- to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
“Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success.’’
—J. Hall, School-house, E. Markham
AGENTS,
ELLIOTT BROTHERS & Co.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
Try Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
m
Price TWO GUINEAS.
T Animates the sluggish
JL circulation, Stimulates
the Brain to Activity.
and fills the body with
Life, Ambition, : and En-
durance. It furnishes the
Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving- instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
■how long; standing. Are the same
* to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes; Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address -A. M. NAST. 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PILLS
IiOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaoh
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Lreath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &C. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and obey will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.” . , _
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, w quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of tae system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, iness
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have Ike LarfftH Sale «f any Patent Medtetne in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, Si. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, is lid, and 2s 9d each.
BIG GAME CARTRIDGES
ARE furnished in all calibres. In hunting
t/1 big game few shots comparatively are
to be had and each must count. It is
the hunter’s ideal to “drop the deer in its tracks.”
.38-40 W. C. F. and .44-40 W. C. F. are popular.
They are hard-hitting, your game does not run
miles to die a lingering death if your aim i 3
true. Demand U.M.C. of your dealer.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
>4
■
m
There’s SECURITY In
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
wSmmHM
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter's
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price is.
rIM ,WrWt.
A CARD .
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Edm.,
L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.5.0.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh; formerly Member of, the Royal Me<hcal Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University Of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s Hospitals ; Surgeon-in-Charge of Troops, South African War; Author of " Mmd Over Mat-
ter,” “ The Diseases of Men and Women.” etc., may be consulted personally or by letter, FREE, at his consulting
rooms > « ELM LEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confidential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in all Diseaae*
of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Urinary Complaints,
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. Also Specimen
Copies of “ The Diseases of Men and Women,” posted FREE to any address on receipt of six stamps.
Consultation by Letter— FßEE.
A Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients received at Dr. Martin’s Private Hospital, and special attention
given to all cases that have failed to get relief elsewhere.
DR* MARTIN, M.D
Elmley
(Please
” 151 Elizabeth-st, City*
paper when writing.)


sypNcy
Robber Works.
fIANUFACTURERS OF
SHEET RUBBER RUBBER RINGS
WASHERS ROLLERS
VALVES BUFFERS
GAS TUBING, and Every Description of
MECHANICAL RUBBER GOODS.
«
WORKS:
Gary St., Off Birkenhead Road.
CITY OFFICE:
Go.
Ltd.
270 George St., Sydney.
Beautiful Designs^*-
in RUBBER STAMPS.
BALLERUM & CO.
ENGINEERS & BLACKSMITHS
195 Kent St. Sydney.
THIS DESIGN,
any matter,
2s, >6tf. Post Free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore Street, Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
99 «
\mt \FIED\HO
k Ho Motto; stoi\4 be v»ftbo\ft ft ~ \ sebb V ox\ xeauest.
a
£
vJft^-tgWa
8 i
WMii&?:4
1
*• • '^»v.'A*'
m
dp/sgress/ve d/'cta/y adapted to c/>e g/ow/tg d/gest/Vepowers
Milk Food N?l
f/vm£MAto3mo/!Ms.
N? 2
from 3 to 6 months
Malted Food N°3
from 6 mo/Ms vpmn/s
m
m
“ Independence ”
IS THE BRAND OF
PERFECTLY BALANCED
Wood Split Pulleys.
SOLD BY
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET ,
SYDNEY.
All sizes in stock . Write for Prices .
KNOWLES
STEAM PUMPS
of all kinds.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills
. and Air Compressors.
Morris Centrifugal Pumps.
ENGINES AND BOILERS,
Horizontal and ‘Vertical.
Engineers Fittings.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd,,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
“UTOPIA”
. SAVES .
MONEY, TIME, LABOR.
It is the name of an
AUTOMATIC VYCE
that no joiner or fitter should
be without.
Descriptive Catalogue on
APPLICATION TO
PARKE & LAGY GO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
<wo th»
Sou
BT Ali
First-Clam
Storm
w Australasia,
8160.
1 Blade.
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
STDIXTETST.
1
WWW
i-;
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
—' STOVES
Manufacturers in IST. S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Run die St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
NOVEL PRESENT.
)
■See
AN receipt of P. 0.0.
V forward to any
our HANDSOME
0U N D WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
9ct. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with either
Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed the same
quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct.
G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illus
traced Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully addressed
to R. SIMS, Cold Wire King:, Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne, Vic.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
"w. o. elubidge & co.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by poxt from all the colonies promptly
63
@233
Suse, 6J"xBJ" *f".
are
Importers
m
m
(all sizes
for sill
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, V ire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
s
g 7 GLA.HEKTCB STREET, SYDNEY.
CARD CONCENTRATOR. RAND AIR COMPRESSORS.
Slugger and Little Giant Rock Drills. Imperial Pneumatii Tools.
Pulsometer Engineering Co.’s Pumps of all kinds.
Lister Electric Motors and Dynamos. Panklast Dry Crusher ,
N
IT Bond Street, Sydney,
486 Collins St., SVlelbourne.
Manufacturers of RACKAROCK.
Dealers in MINE MACHINERY and Supplies
