

McEWAN’S ALE.
“GAELIC” WHISKY.
*
107 Kent
ttinin
Street,
—FOB—
and Contractors* Plant, Engineers’ and
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS A»D GENERAL IRONMONGERY
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Hieqnisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
LARGE STOCKS OK HAND.
WHITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
Radley s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
belt!
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED
J»C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
sole aqents_for portable and FIXED
■/:
ħ
SIMPLE
INSTANTLY STARTED
ECONOMICAL.
l
"Always order
HUTTO
Brand HAMS® BA
The Master wont eat any
other! -
SA
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Sut scribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A qjbß, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. Tfc®
C /?
'tnju
/
? <*>
//
ASK
GROCER FOR
os
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
h
u
1/9
DAILY
TREAT!
ĥ
Rg
Du
ħ
is the Queen of all Cocoas
F°*V
Aroma,Strength t-Puritjc
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
x.ta.
SYDNEY,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SH EP3XINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff ml highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished On application.
h
ĥ
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
HELIDON SPA
(tOLLIN & Co., AGENTS.
The Bulletin
Vol. 26. —N0. 1339. ]
[Thursday, October 12 1905
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a N^wsoansr.


THREE SUCCESSFUL NOVELS-
JACK LONDON’S THE GAME,
A TRANSCRIPT FROM LIFE, by the author of “ The Call of the Wild,” “ The Sea Wolf,” etc., etc., with illustra.
tions Sind dccorjitionb I Icnry Hutt 3<nd T» C« Lawrence. Cloth 3s 6d, postage (id.
THE CLAIM JUMPERS, by Stewart White, author of
“In Silent places,” “ The Blazed Trail,” etc.; cloth
%i 6d, postage 6d.
A CAPTAIN IN THE RANKS, by G. O. Eggleston,
author of “ Evelyn Byrd,” etc. ; cloth 3s 6d,
postage 6d.
Special importations for sale in the Commonwealth, each one a facsimile of the edition sold in America
at a dollar and a half.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY'
ħ
-SsC'Ss&tC'
theGkeat
A/ITISEPTIC Remedy
' -A-
st&recC
for Influenza, Bronchitis,Asthm& f &&ll mfecrions.o
the throat & lungs, & for prevention of Consumpriot?-
Sold in Tins 1/6 or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist,lpswich,
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand,
' LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 32QRegent Street VV.
THE RED PAGE.
PAID TO DOODLE KINS, W.A.
Roll a red tongue that riots in the pride
Of vowels strong, sonorous as the sea ;
Gorge a rich ear that will not be denied '
Its ravishment of royal melody ;
But Aspromont and Montalban no more
Vie with Morocco or with Trebizond,
And Charlemagne on Fontarabia’s sho’re
May know his syllables no longer conned :
Their glory and their majesty are thine,
And thou art ours, heroic Doodlekine !
That blessed word Mesopotamia,
In Whitfield's mouth, made even butchers weep ;
Atchafalaya has been murmured far
And wide by devotees in poppied sleep ;
But what avails the immemorial noise
And outcry of Castille and Aragon ?
Can Connemara give us former joys?
Can Oonalaska still demand the bun ?
As stars before the Day their light resign,
These yield and worship thee, O Doodlekine 1
Many go hence upon a glittering quest,
Leaving the cherished girls, the friendly home;
Their hearts beat high with Youth (young men go West)
And sickly they affront the roaring foam :
They pass the Lioness, Rottnest they spurn,
Then vanish down the vista of the' years.
We mourn in vain : they never may return ;
For thou hast poured thy spelling in their ears •
The magic of that spell is like strong wine—
Would thou wert East, delirious Doodlekine I
ETHICS OF JOURNALISH
WHO hurts Australia hurts every
Australian. The ordinary man
who lives here, marries here,
makes his home here, is injured
by every false or scandalous statement that
depreciates his country’s credit. If not he,
then his children, to a greater or less extent,
but assuredly to some extent. And the
injury is no mere affair of sentiment.
Beyond question, the future of the ordinary
man’s children is bound up with the future
of Australia. If Australia prospers, his
children in all probability will prosper ; if
Australia undergoes “bad times,” that
greatly increases the chance that his children
will have a bad time. National interest is
self-interest.
Now, journalism is so free, the methods
of journalism are so obvious, and the circula-
lation of the material of journalism is so easy,
that irresponsible journalism has become a
public danger. Once started, a lie is never
caught. Even if contradicted, it is impos-
sible to provide that every person who reads
the lie shall read the contradiction. And
unfortunately, inevitably, many people give
full credence to statements printed as state-
ments of fact. If, as appears from Sydney
Telegraph of 4 October, Lond. Daily Mail
“stated significant and sustained exodus
of [N.S.W.] population to Chili,” it follows,
as a matter of course, that “ statements
have already had injurious effect.” The
Daily Mail is not the most reputable-
of London journals. One may hold the
opinion that it is among the least reputable.
Nevertheless it survives and succeeds by
being in the main trustworthy in matters of
fact, or by convincing its readers that it is in
the main trustworthy. * If it were common
knowledge or belief that any newspaper was
wholly untrustworthy, that paper could not
exist—as a newspaper. Besides, to the
credit of The Daily Mail goes the credit of
all the good things written in it by anony-
mous contributors. Lacking information of
origin, almost every reader transfers to a
paper’s credit the credit of every sound or
brilliant passage he finds in the paper. To
buttress the lie of “sustained exodus of
[N.S.W.] population to Chili” (always pro-
vided that the reported statement be correct)
comes every reader’s impression that The
Daily Mail is a clever or an enterprising
newspaper—the totality of impressions that
impel him to buy and read The Daily Mail
in preference to other papers.
Such journalism then, traducing Australia,
it is every Australian’s duty to resent as the
personal injury it is. National reputation is
a delicate thing abroad. At home, we know
and contemn the libel ; but abroad it is not
to be contemned. Now that the time is
judged fit for encouraging immigration, the
reported statement will discourage immigra-
tion. If a time should come for renewing loans,
the reported statement will in its degree
help to raise the price of a renewed loan ;
so raising unproductive Australian taxation.
Not one such statement should be permitted
to go uncontradicted. But more than that :
the responsible correspondent, or the irrespon-
sible newspaper, should be brought to book,
and pilloried and punished as a libeller. The
N.S.W. Lands Minister said that the Mall
correspondent is known. In that case, it
should be publicly demanded of him whether
he cabled the lie. If he did not, public con-
tradiction should be given. If he did, he
should be driven out of Australia as a public
enemy. If he refuses to answer, he should
be exposed to public contempt as a man
living in Australia who sees Australia libelled
by his employers, and will not disavow com-
plicity.
The Daily Mail is no less within reach. It
is an important paper, but it has not the
highest status among London papers; and
neither it nor another can a fiord to disregard
English public opinion. If, when the facts
have been ascertained as fully as possible,
the N.S.W. Agent-General will set forth the
facts in a just remonstrance addressed par-
ticularly to other. London and British
papers, and to the Athepoeum Club', the,
Press Club, and other clubs (to go no fur-
ther), he will find that there is an Eng
lish opinion in favour of honest journalism
which will do much to prevent the recurrence
of national libels. (A precise statement of
previous Lond. press libels on Australia
would signally aid such a memorial; and the
N.S.W. facts should be attested by the
Governor.)
Upon The Daily Mail correspondent,
editor, and proprietor, the doctrine of per-
sonal responsibility should be pressed right
home.
The Sydney Telegraph is in another case—less
serious, more curious. The Telegraph published
the original news that several persons were leav-
B)g N.S. Wales for Cliili, in consequence of the
N.S.W. land muddle. Question : Should The
Telegraph have refrained, contenting itself with
communicating the news to the Minister?
Remember that we are at war industrially ; that
there was a strong presumption that, once pub-
lished, the nows would be used (as the Minister
foresaw, and as it was used) to Australia’s injury ;
and say if The Telegraph is in the position of a
citizen who has . left open to a military .enemy the
plan of a weak point in his country’s defences.
The verdict must be Guilty, with circumstances
extenuating and possibly justifying.
(That the publication was “ good journalism ” is
no defence; for journalism must be subordinate
to patriotism.)
in justification there is this : here was fresh
evidence of a public ill, and experience shows
that the best means of healing public ills is
publicity. In its light they shrivel and die like
lupus-growths in Finsen-rays. If a Minister
could be depended upon to act as promptly and
strongly without publicity as with it, then it would
have been right of the Telegraph privately to
communicate the facts and. hold its pen.
But experience shows that, whether he will or no,
it is the rarest thing for any Minister to follow
with decisive action the need of action. Depart-
mental inertia can scarcely he moved unless a mine
is exploded beneath it. Therefore, to an honest
Minister the Press can and does give powerful
aid by force of public opinion. And just at pre-
sent it is of the greatest importance that every
blot on N.S.W. land laws be illuminated, Ail
possible evidence, and all possible publicity, will
be needed to mend matters. Every stick thrown
on the fire of Reform helps a blaze which there
are many influences to extinguish. The Telegraph
chose the probability of the lesser evil; and this
is its justification.
But there is no justification for heightening and
colouring the statement, as the Telegraph did,
beyond the importance of the fact. And that is
not “ good journalism in the long run. Tn the
long run, the journal that pays is the journal
whose readers regard it as a Bible up to date.
The trouble is to get both the Bible and the date.
THE TWILIGHT PEOPLE
IT is the title of a little book of verse by Seumas
O’Sullivan (Dublin, Whaley; 2s. (id. ) — a
little book that rings with the melancholy
lin-lan-lone of evening bells. The Celtic
poet admits nowadays his faintness, his farness,
his dim aloofness—perhaps by dint of the con-
tinual assurance that he has these qualities ;
and writes, it may be, to suit his ac-
credited atmosphere. As revered “ Eva, of
The Nation ,” .may ponder in Brisbane, gone
are the stirring war-songs, the appeals to
awake and arise, the clarion calls to tread the base
Saxon beneath the bloody heel. Ireland is apathetic
—and harder at work; malcontents are in a
minority ; and current poetry is grey and twilit.
On the whole it is better poetry—less vigorous,
more artful, less superficial; though one would be
glad for a beat of Ferguson’s pulse now and again,
and even a dash of crimson might not be amiss.
O’Sullivan’s verse is poetry, and fine poetry
too, most worthy to be cherished ; though his
mood falls in despair even before he goes forth to
the battle. There are some forty short pieces,
and scarcely one of them is without its sad
message, sung sweetly. The work is more even
than Yeats’s : it does not wander altogether into
the wood beyond the world and return at inter-
vals with a magic phrase ; but the interest is none
the less because it is lucid. Here is
THE PILGRIM.
A myriad golden suns have burned
Into my heart and left it cold,
And all the old time seems but a tale
To some half-listless hearer told,
Some drowsy half-Articulate rhyme
In this dim ingle nook of time.
0 fiery-hearted days of old,
In vain you flowed a burning tide:
In vain you poured your spendthrift gold;
The vanishing splendour of your pride
Lives but a flickering torch to light
My feet into a deeper night.
There is an impression of white sheep wending a
wet road in the grey evening; a symbol and finely
said. And
CHILDREN OF KINGS.
Listless the world dreams on with heavy lids;
All beauty lives but in dead carven stone ;
Gh'andeur is shut into the pyramids :
Our love repeats some ancient singer’s moan :
And all our striving can but bring again
A life wrought oat and perfected,by ancient men.
0 miserable race to Uve so late,
We can but worship that, which taught the Greek,
Knowing that great perfection, ’I is our fate
To lose, by very knowledge, that %ve seek;
Save where an instant only, through some dream
Of the world’s passion the white linibs of Helen gleam.
And
THE FAUN.
Tell me, 0 happy wandering shade, who knew
Our earth in gladder times, before that horde
Horse-hearted, lust-embittered, heavy-eyed,
Trampled the golden fields of Arcady
With leaden hooves. 0 happy, happy shade,
When the hours went light-hearted, and the earth
Had still a music for their dancing feet.
O happy shade, speak, speak to me of days
Sated with golden hours that leaped at last
To glorious consummation on the pyres
Of their oivn dying splendour; and of dusk
That led to life anew with new delight ;
When voices, sweeter than the breath of dawn,
Sang, mellow-throated, through the evening woods ;
Or Pan himself, low breathing melody,
Made all the listening woods with slumber glad :
Until the moon in her far quiet world,
Grew pale ivith envy of your forest joys :
0 wandering shade, what joy of all your joys
Has drawn you ivith its very memory
From Lethe’s ways to peer with wistful eyes
Upon the threshold of a-world grown grey ?
All wistful, all wanly white the verses : with
colour lost in odour, and strength become a
shadow of vague regret. It is not the most
poignant kind of poetry, but it has its value
nevertheless, and when the banners have passed
and the bugles ceased its quiet voice may be
heard long.
COPYRIGHT
f | has become a permanent subject, appar-
B ently. Because it is important.
It is important to all people who read
books, go to plays, are interested in
painters’ and sculptors’ and similar arts. We
want to put them as far as possible on the best
world-footing—to give them every chance of read-
ing and hearing and seeing the best work obtain-
able ; so that to live in Australia will no longer be
to live in a backwater of the artistic current.
It is important to writers of books and plays, to
painters and sculptors—-who want the profit of
their labour, and protection in its enjoyment.
It is important to paper makers, ink-makers,
compositors, printers’ machinists, printers’ engi-
neers, type-founders and machinery-makers,
joiners, bookbinders, book-cloth-makers, and a
score of other trades. Trade unions and asso-
ciations' are deeply interested -in the Copyright
Bill. Here are valuable privileges; and Senator
Keating says : Give them away. We say: Sell
them : as little as possible for nothing, and as
much as possible for industrial.return.
Copyright is important to fathers of families —
fathers of good boys who will make good artisans.
Canada has brought a considerable part of the
foreign book .industry to Canada. Australia,
with similar legislative rights and powers, can do
as much for Australia.
Copyright is important to every Australian. It
can be used to plant in Australia, and not else-
where, an additional tree-of national life. Sooner
or later, one is pretty sure that this country will
have to fight for its freedom, possibly for racial
existence. When Armageddon comes, we shall
need all our men and money. We shall need
them right here —not in any other part of the
British Empire, however friendly. Then let us
take every least chance of establishing industries
that will bring them here and keep them here.
J*
The Senate is debating copyright in committee
—not without tears. Senator Keating is referred
to as “the father of the Bill.” “But,” said
Senator Symoji, “ I also have a paternal interest in
it.” “ And I too !” said Senator Drake.
That makes one Bill, three Fathers. (Too
many fathers spoil the child.)
Jt
It is not certain that Griffith, 0.J., may not
again have to complain of draftsmanship ; though
the Senate is taking pains. We have to complain
of other things—as many things as space will
permit. Clause 29, for example—a clause passed:
Where a translation of a book into a particular language
is not made within ten years from the date of the publica-
tion of the book by the owner of the copyright or by some
person by his authority—
(a) Any person desirous .of translating the hook into
that language may make an application in writing to the
Minister for permission so to do :
(b) The Minister may thereupon by notice in writing
inform the owner of the copyright of such application
and request him to make or cause to be made a transla-
tion of the book into that language within such time as
the Minister deems reasonable or to show cause why
such application should not be granted :
(c) If the owner of the copyright fails to comply with
such notice the Minister may grant such application.
The complaint is that Senator Keating has gone
out of his way to limit the right of translation
given by the Berne Convention. This attitude is
typical of Senator Symon’s Bill. Senator Drake
desires apparently to lay upon Australia burdens
even more grievous than those which international
copyright imposes.
Take this case. That delightfully Parisian
author, Willy, has recently published Les Egare-
ments de Minne, In 1915 I may think that Aus-
tralia is sufficiently enlightened to read about
Minne’s divagations, and may desire to translate
her into English. Now, Willy’s rights in 1915,
under existing international law, accepted by
Britain, and in force in Australia, are these (Art.
1/3, Act of Paris): —
1. If Minne has been translated into English with
Willy’s authority, I cannot lawfully publish another
translation during the original copyright term.
2. If Minne has not been so translated, I can lawfully
publish my translation and secure copyright.
But if the Commonwealth Bill becomes law, I
may have to reckon with that too. For all I know,
Willy may have sent a copy of Minne to Doodle-
kine for sale as soon as it was published in Paris,
That gives Willy Australian copyright under.
Senator Keating’s benelicent £-Bill. I have no
means of ascertaining whether Willy did send a
book to Winninowie, for Senator Synion’s 3- Bill
does not require registration of copyright within
the Commonwealth. So, not to risk the alarm
that (under Senator Drake’s 3-Bill) a constable
with a search-warrant (signed by any .T.P. !)
would cause in my boarding-house, I take for
granted that Willy has sent a copy of Minne for
sale in Coonabarabran, and—l apply to “the
Minister ” for permission to translate Minne.
Now, why ?
Why should I have to apply to the Minister for
a right which under international law I have
already ?
Why should the Minister thereupon notify
Willy regarding a matter in which by inter-
national law there is no need to consult him ?
Why should the Minister request Willy to make
a translation to destroy in Australia the value of
the translation which international law authorises
me to make ?
Why all this unnecessary bother ? Why should
my international right be limited or abolished by
the Commonwealth ? Why should the Common-
wealth impose upon the Australian translator a
burden that no translator elsewhere has to bear ?
I don’t know, I’m sure. Possibly the Senate
knows. The Senate passed clause 29.
MEMORANDA.
“Ah,” said the Italian painter, “y- -do not
know what trouble I havea when I come to Aus-
tralia. I speaka no word of Etigli&h. Makea
things very hard. The lirsta week I go into a
hotela for a drink. I pointa to the beer, and the
man say “Beer?” “Isay, “Si! Si/!” He take
a longa glass— longa, and fill it. I say “Basta!
Basta!” —which meana “Enough l Enough!”
“Eh?” saya the man. “What yo; saya?” I
say “Basta!” again. He runa round the bar
with his fists up—thisaway—and say : “Do you
want to fight ? VVliat you calla me those names
for ? ” I not calla him any names ; I not knowa
what he mean. Just then another Italian come
in ; and he explaina. Then the man laugh and
say, “ Talcea your beer for nothing. It is a joke ! ”
In the Commonwealth Parliament on 28 Sept.,
discussing copyright in “ reviews,” Senator Pearce
spoke as follows ( Hansard , 2911):
I 1 ;tve here a copy of Life, a so-called review which is
published in Australia. From cover to cover it is nothing
But a theft of the copyright of other persons, and a theft
with the very barest acknowledgment. In the name of a
review, the editor of this publication practically takes
articles without payment from all the journals of the
\Vorld. He is t hus able, without cost to.himself, to take
advantage of the product of the brains of writers through-
out the world. lam afraid that this clause will perpetu-
ate such a state of things. 1 have marked a number of
these thefts in the, August number of this publication.
Here is a sample of the “review ” of these pirated articles.
In connection with an artiole on “ Imported Fun,” this
is the sole original matter published by the editor of
Life —
“Agnes Deans Cameron, Principal of South Park School,
British Columbia, contributes to the Century a paper on
school-child humour. We quote some examples that have
come under her personal notice. ”
The editor then proceeds to appropriate practically the
whole of this artiole for his publication. I contend that
this is not in the slightest degree a review of the article.
The same thing applies to almost every article appearing
in this number of this so-called review. Two or three
words of introduction are given, and then the whole article
is put in. With very few exceptions, the review in ques-
tion is practically made up in this way.
But, if they did not buy Life, the people who
prefer that kind of thing probably would buy a
foreign scraps-publication ; and if scraps are de-
manded, they may as well be clipped in Australia,
and provide employment for local clippers and
printers. The ' local beef of Steele Rudd's
Magazine, honestly paid for, may suit Senator
Pearce better than the foreign sausage of Life ;
but readers with a taste for sausage must be left
to learn by experience that beef is more whole-
some. Our complaint against Life is merely that
the scraps are not well compounded : it is not a
good sausage; and some recent issues apparently
would have been better called Death.
It can be urged, of course, that scraps-magazines
depress the local writer who wants to do Austra-
lian work and be paid for it; but as long as
they are made in Australia the local writer must
accept the task of convincing the public that his
work is better worth paying for. He _ has a
majority on his side already, and competition for
the minority will sharpen his talents and improve
his work. We breed good horses in Australia,
but nearly all of them are better ridden with a
spur.
Odette D'Antrevernes and a Study in Tempera-
ment, by Arthur Eirbank (Lond., Elkin Mathews ;
2s. net) are the titles of two slight sketches con-
trasted in a little book—apparently youthful ex-
periments in precious prose. The • interest and
art are sufficient to justify a hope of something
more substantial. ,
A Practical German Grammar, Reader and
Writer, by L. Lubovius: Part I, Elementary
(Edin., Blackwood; 25.) An excellent book for
beginners. The method is good (grammar follow-
ing lessons in language, and taught gradually), and
the form and typography are admirable.
No. 1 of The Australasian Decorator and
Painter, a new monthly, is published in Sydney
to represent the house-painting and decorating
trades. Generally, the style and matter are good ;
though in this issue the examples of decoration
are not especially attractive. The editor, J. E.
Bishop, writes :
More than merely copying natural lorms is required in
decoration :
and that is true. A decorator is necessarily
interpreter, not copyist. But it is added :
Resemblance to natural form... is generally, in reality,
a sign of want of taste :
and this is too wide a statement. It is literal
imitation that is to be deprecated. A design
based on natural form of course r esembles that
form.
A.G.S.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FUR. SKINS
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. "W
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS for SPORTING COOPS and TOBACCO.
Postage on 1 Bat,
Is. N.S.W. ;
Js. Bd. inter-State.
MICK
SIMMONB.
CRICKET
MICK
SIMMON3.
MEN’S BATS.
BUSSEY’S All Cane, ss; Cane and Rubber, 6s 6d ; DEMON DRIVERS, 21s, 25s .
CLAPSHAW’S All Cane, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d; Cane and Rubber, 16s 6d; Spiral
AYRE’S All Cane, 13s, 15s; Cane and Rubber, 17s, 18s ; Special C. 8.8., 18s 6d ; Standard
Driver. 19s ; INTERNATIONAL, 20s ; INTERNATIONAL IMPROVED, 24s
WISDEN’S All Cane, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d ; LORD’S DRIVER, 17s 6d ; CRAWFORD
EXCELLER, 21s ; Selected, 25s , •
COBBETT’S All Cane 10s 6d,11s 6d ; STAR DRIVER, 20s; JUBILEE DRIVER, 22s 6d
WARSOP’S All Cane, 12s 6d ; Cane and Rubber, 16s, 18s 6d; IMPROVED CONQUEROR,
20s 25s
SYKE’S All Cane, 8s 6d; “A 1 ” Cane and Rubber, 14s 6d ; YORKSHIRE DRIVERS,
2|q 25s
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S All Cane, 8s 3d, 8s 6d, 11s, 14s 6d ; Cane and Whalebone,
18s 19s 19s 6d
BARTLETT’S All Cane, 12s 6d, 15s ; “ ALL ENGLAND,” 18s; REPERCUSIVE, 19s 6d
DARK’S All Cane, 10s 6d ; LORD’S DRIVER, 17s 6d ; CORK HANDLE, 24s
NICOLL’S Automatic Handles, 15s 6d, 18s 6d ; Rubber or Chamois Covered, 22s
BRYAN’S “ PRESIDENT,” 18s ; “ PRESIDENT ” SELECTED, 21s
G. G. HEARNE’S All Cane, 14s 6d ; “ QUICK SPRING,” 22s 6d ; Selected, 27s 6d
GUNN & MOORE’S All Cane, 8s 6d; “CANNON,” 21s; W.G. Selected, 255; AUTO-
GRAPH,” 27s
STUART SURRIDGE All Cane, 13s 6d, 17s 6d ; RAPID DRIVERS, 16s 6d, 21s
LILLYWHITE & FROWD’S All Cane, 16s Od, 19s ; SPECIAL DRIVER, 22s 6d
SPECIALLY SELECTED CANE and DOUBLE RUBBER, 12s 6d
YOUTHS’ BATS.
Sizes 3 4 5 6
HALPOANE .. 3/6 4/- 4 9 5/3
ALL CANE.. .. 4/- 4/9 5/3 6/-
SELECTED .. 6/6 8/6 9/6 10/6
Sizes 1 2 3 4 6
PLAIN .. 9d 1/- 1/3 1/6 2/-
POLISHED 1/- 1/3 1/6 2/- 2/6
6 7
2/6 4/-
3/-
SIX SEAM
LEATHER BALLS.
PRACTICE, 5 Joz., 9d ; MATCH, s£oz., Is 3d.
Standard Match, sJoz., 2s 6d.
Extra Special, Gut Sewn, 3s 6d.
The above Balls are good value for use on
turf wickets.
“M.S.” Special Match, Gut Sewn, 4s 6d, 6s 3d.
' For use on hard wickets these Balls cannot
be equalled in price or quality.
DUKE’S Practice, s£oz., 5s ; P.K.D., 6s 3d.
Match, s£oz., 6s 6d ; Best, 7s 6d.
WISDEN’S Match, 4s 3d ; Crown, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
COMPOS. Boys, 3d, 6d, 9d, 1/- each.
Men’s, 1/-, 1/8, 2 3, 3/-, 3/6, 4/3 each
Postage on 1 Ball, 3d.
h
STUMPS WITH BAILS.
Men’s Brass Top, Steel Shod, 5/9, 7/9, 8/6 set
Men’s Revolving Top, Steel Shod. 10/6,12/6 set
Men’s Ash and Blackwood, 2/-, 3 -, 3/9 set
Youths, 6d, 1/-, 1/6, 2/6, 3/-, 4/6 set
LEG- GUARDS.
Men’s White Canvas, 4/6 pair
Men’s Tan (continuous straps) 5/11, 7/9 pr.
Men’s Skeleton Tan, 10/6 pair
Youths’ White, 4/6 ; Tan, 5/- pair
GAUNTLETS.
Men’s Buff, 3/11; Tan, 5/-pair
Men’s Gold Cape, 6/6, 9/6 pair
Men’s, with Black Rubber, palm, 7/6, 9/6 pair
Men’s Black Rubber, padded finger tips, 11/-, 14/6 pair
BATTING GLOVES.
Men’s Buff, felt protection, 4/6 pair
Men’s Buff, rubber protection, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6 pair
Patent Surry Shield, 4/- each
LIST FREE.
FULL
5 ID
The Great
MONTE
CARLO
GAME.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
Price—
10/6
POST
FREE.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Nextshipmentdue
in about 6 weeks.
7T
*>■
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging 1 Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Bed Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels —Is 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s 6d each
3/6
Handicap
51-
STANbARb
7/3
warn
Ascot
2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S. W. ; Is 2d incer-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s
Full Size
Sandown
Handicap
A 1
Cork Handle
Champion ..
Central Strung
3s 9d,
6s 6d,
4s 9d
7s 6d
8s 9d
12s 6d
14s 6d
16s
19s 6d
24s
BLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw •• •• 13s 6d
Demon .. • • 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. .
doz.
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
I 4
W
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, IZS 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
£3
m
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ĥ
Folding Orchard Gun,
4iogr.
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g. side lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length over all 38£in,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock
Postage on X Gun, 1/9 N.S.W. ;
3/2 Interstate.
35s
We can now
supply these
guns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
MAINE
RIFLE
The Celebrated
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long-, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2|lb.
ħ
■'THE MAINE
Pifle
3
h
Sheunng Pifle Apart.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gan, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding' Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
ĥ
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
£l2 12s
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS.
ħ
h
2 6, 100 ; 21/-, 1030.
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre, fires 10
shots in four seconds, weight
silb
£4 /Os.
Postage : jNT.S.W., 2/-; Inter-State, 3/8.
MICK SIMMONS.
ĥ
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end,
pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ..
40s
Postage:
N.S.W.. m : Inter-State. : 5/2.
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
MICK SIMMONS.
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, about 31b.
Postage : N.S.W., 1-/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
15s.
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V
Sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
Postage, Is 3d N.S.YV. ; 2s 2d Inter-State.
18/6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.P., 20in.
barrel, weight 3Jlb. Postage : N.S.W., 1/6 ; Inter-State, 2/8.
16/6
CONICAL BALL
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
AMMUKTITIOKT,
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is Sd ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
- -y, 22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle .. ...
~ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
ls’Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
gpßgr- illustrated Sports, Fishing: Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.“9SS
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freshold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribe Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors- Thomas Littlejohn, Esq., Chairman; The Hon. A. \V Meeks, M.L. C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E Winchcombe, Esq.,
. General Manacrer and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F. A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WWCHESTER
Thumb Trigger Model Rifle
sSa
SOMETHING NEW
SOMETHING NOVEL
A novelty in .22 caliber rifles. As its name indicates, the trig-
ger, located upon the upper side of the grip at the rear of the
bolt, is operated by pressing down with the thumb, thus obvi-
ating ** pull off” in firing. Simplicity and quickness of action
are its features. It is a take-down, and has the widely imi-
tated Winchester bolt action. Notwithstanding its low price,
its quality is the same as that of all Winchester rifles.
IiTITTT
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIi
h
ENO’S
FRUIT
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
SALT.
The effect of Eno’s 1 Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Cap suit marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT.' Without It you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prapartd only by J. C. BNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, ENGL,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
Specialist
In ail Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
Weak Men
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
~Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43s. 6d.
BtuiOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 43s. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23,6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
VIVID ACCOUNT
FOR YOUR BENEFIT.
The Case of Mr. S. SHAW.
(Bv a Sydney Reporter.)
A vivid account appears below of
the extraordinary experiences of Mr.
Samuel Shaw, of No. 2UB Liverpool-
street, Sydney, where he has been liv-
ino- for the past fifteen years,
“It is over half a century ago since
I came from Manchester to this coun-
try." Mr. Shaw observed to a report
“and up to a certain period J had
nothing- to complain of about my
health." Then my luck changed. and for
fully ten years T had an annual visit
from a complaint that seemed to have
got hold of me for good."
“What was the nature .of it ?' en-
quired the pressman.
“It was neuralgia that paid me
those yearly attentions, but in addi-
tion to that I was greatly troubled
with indigestion. Indeed, 1 blame the
latter for causing the former, as it
was when I became unable to digest
my food that I first noticed how sad-
ly my general health was falling otf.
My system seemed to go to piecesbit
by bit, and then my nerves had just
about broken down altogether, when
my physical tortures) were at their
worsit. The pains in my head were so
terribly severe that the softest pillow
felt as if it were filled with sharp
edged stones that cut right into me.
All about my jaws and gums 1 was
so sore and tender that 1 could not
bear anything to touch me, and 1
would flinch from the application of
a piece of wadding as though it was
a hard, rough substance of a pene-
trating character."
“I suppose your sleep would be
greatly interfered with ?’’
“Oh ! don’t mention anything about
sleep, for 1 positively dread to recall
the numberless nights that T put in
without getting any at all-simply
turning from side to side in suen
agony that often I wished myself dead
instead of existing in such misery.
Sometimes tho pains would take one
side of my head and face, and on other
occasions the opposite side would be
affected. My eves, round the back of
my neck—goodness ! 1 don’t know
where the pain did not exist. It was
awful, and you can easily imagine how
much suffering can make one’s lifo a
burden to him. I know mine was, for
I was dreadfully melancholy. There
was always some fearful thing going
to happen, according to my mindi.
Trouble in every direction, and the
strange part of it was that, although
the calamities did not occur when I
imagined they would, still t could not
help worrying over the saint notions
on subsequent days. That will show
vou what an unhappy frame of mind I
found myself in owing to my excessive
weakness, and it was surprising how
irritable the least thing- used to make
me. The slightest noise coming sud-
denly threw me into a state of excite-
ment and caused my nerves to shake
quite visibly, and if I exerted myself
a little bit the trembling was just as
bad. The trouble was that the longer
my sufferings continued the worse
they became. My organs of digestion
were getting more incapable of doing
their work every day, and although,
owing to the poorness of my appetite,
1 took but very little food, still it
was always enough to greatly increase
the torments 1 was already enduring."
“You had made efforts to overcome
those afflictions, 1 expect
“Repeatedly I had tried, but it all
seemed useless. Years ago 1 had
consulted a doctor in Victoria, and
again in Svdnev I had placed
myself under the care of seve-
ral medical experts, who could not
cure me, and naturally I thought
ray load of suffering would eventually
drag me down to the grave. My at-
tempts to get better did not cease
when the doctors’ medicines failed.
No ; I tried many others, only to be
again doomed to disappointment, for
the heavy foelings in the chest were
still there after taking a little food,
the annoying’ pains between my shoul-
ders had" not moved an inch, and the
aching: sensations across my loins
were just as troublesome as ever. I
still got up with a coated tongue and
a nasty tasite of a morning, the sud-
den giddy turns had not yet been
checked, and the appalling sense of
utter feebleness and dejection was
bearing down upon me more forcibly
and more alarmingly than ever. One
thing was certain —that a change one
way or the other would soon take
place, and it was a decided change for
the better that came, and the cause
of it all was nothing but Clements
Tonic, and that is the reason why I
have since recommended that remedy
to hundreds of other people, who have
always thanked me for my advice af-
terwards. Do you know that 1 had
cpiite given up hope of ever being
cured, and had lost all faith in medi-
cines because of having tried every
one of them without any good result-
ing, and would never have taken
Clements Tonic only that 1 happened
to pick up an old paper and saw in
it the names of some in~\ lential peo-
ple, friends of mine, who were testify-
ing to its efficacy. That day 1 got
some Clements Tonic and the very
hrst night 1 obtained a little ease/'
“How long ago is that V'
“eight veal's or more, and I am in-
deed grateful to be able to say that
ever since my health has been all that
J. could wish, for by continuing Clem-
ents Tonic for a while 1 succeeded in
throwing ofi all the ailments that had
made me thoroughly sick and tired
of my life. Tittle by little the neural-
Sic pains that for years had nearly
riven me mad abated. it rea.ly
seemed too good to be true, but there
was no doubt about the complete
manner in which Clements Tonic cured
me. Wot only did my head pains ul-
timately die away and never occur
again, 'but 1 gained in health all round,
it was something new for me to fall
asleep soon after settling down in
Led and not wake again till breakfast
time, and didn’t I feel the better for
it ! Truly, it is only fair to say that
Clements Tonic made an entirely
new man of me, for in every way I
felt different, in a few weeks I waa
taking food as heartily as ever, but
what i appreciate more was being able
to digest all i ate. ¥es ; Clements
Tonic put my digestion right and no
mistake, and I often think whait a
wonderful medicine it must be in view
of my many previous failures with
other so-called remedies. My doctors
told me my liver and nerves were out
of order, so I am sure of not making
a mistake when 1 adviso my friends to
take Clements Tonic for those com-
nlaints, as it cured me thoroughly.
After all I had endured it w>as delight-
ful to again feel fresh and vigorous,
to forge ahead and lind enjoyment in
everything that I came in contact
with. So different from being _ weak
and shaky, melancholy and irritable,
like I hau been ; but 1 soon had every
cause to bo cheerful, for Clements
Tonic had driven away each pain and
discomfort that had clouded my life
so Jong. My system was splendidly
toned and strengthened throughout,
and ever since I have enjoyed good,
sound, robust health ■; so you may pub-
lish these facts in any way it pleases
you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, SAMUEL SHAW, ol 208 Liverpool-
street, Sydney, in t'he State ol New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
•'■areiully read the annexed document, consist-
ing; of five folios and consecutivelv numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
Is a true and faithful account of my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
vay my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment : and I make
his solemn declaration conscientiously btliev-
ng the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this
fourth day of November, one thousand ninfc
hundred and four, before me,
WALTER J. GROGAN, J.P.
FREE
Ladles’ & Qent.’s WATCH ES & CHAINS
Birthday 1 RINGS,
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets—FßEE. A
Solid Gold Ladies’ or Geut.’s "Watch costs from £5 to
£lO. Don’t throw your money away. If you want
a watch that will equal for time any solid gold watch
made, send tis your name and address at once, and
we wilt send you s boxes ot our famous New I.ife Ulec-
tine Vegetable Pills to sell at i/-abox—a grand remedy
and cure for all weak conditions of the blood, kidney
and liver trouble, a cure for constipation and weak
nervous disorders, a tonic and a life builder. Our
pills are genuine, and are carefully manufactured
from the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send you the
8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you send us our
money, 8/-, and we will send you your prize. Weare
giving these watches and other prizes to quickly in-
troduce our pills, and when you receive your premium
/ Kr^°
V.
m
m
e
ĥ
we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand opportunity to get a fine Watch and
Cnain Free. Send its your Name and Address at once. You take no risk.
ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., Ash St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ħ
ARE YOU BALD ?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Cafilt.a. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.


/
r <7>.
When thej
thermome= I
ter is low
We get careless and dress as if
it were summer. Then come
chills, colds, coughs. Keep
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
on hand. A dose or two at
the beginning will stop the
chills, break up the cold, and
prevent serious trouble. Look
out for cheap imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Fills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass.,U. S.A.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
h
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TEY THEIR . . .
11 Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a ia Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR, AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Vivella’
+/ (Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
Ew^iilKZfiK
DAY
HKQ|tnjK
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyj amas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: ** ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all. the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
ĥ
BALSAMIC
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
L COUCHS. COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Pries 6c!., Post Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peokham, London, S.E., England
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
does not forget when ordering the household goods to include a bottle of *' BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS." She knows it is advisable to have this medicine in the house, as it is »
certain remedy for troublesome Colds, Bronchitis, and Chest affections generally. It never
fails to cure if you obtain the genuine article,
BONNINSTON’S IRISH i^OSS
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
%
f=4
WALTHAM
WATCHES
12,000,000 of these
watches now in use.
All Waltham
watches are guaran-
teed by American
Waltham Watch
Co., the largest
watch movement
manufacturing
concern in the world.
The “LIFE” WATCH
The nearest instrument in Horology to per-
petual motion yet invented.
The PRICE IS 255. POST FREE.
Cent.’s Cun Metal Cases.
We guarantee them for a lifetime and keep
them in order for five years without charge
(breakages excepted).
L. I. FLEGELTAUB,
WALTHAM WATCH EXPERT,
96 King St ,, Sydney .
9
Mjp/M't/’ffyfat&k) ■fc'
3 m ®
a//-'/ JaJfd tirnM p
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cigar Ash.
Oh, great and small are the things of life,
And jumbled up in the queerest way,
There stirred in my heart a forgotten strife
At the whiff of a good cigar to-day.
It floated up where I sat and sewed
A tiny frock in my window seat ;
Some careless passer along the road
Had knocked at the door of my heart’s retreat.
I dreamt of an old October night,
The long verandah stretched dimly lit.
And the waltzes falling from fingers light
Stole out to us in the cool of it.
And I was wearing my first long gown,
And the music played for my birthday treat;
And you were up for a week from town,
And the dream of it all was very sweet.
And overhead was a sky star-set,
And a black line marking the plain’s edge far,
And I had half of a cigarette,
And you had the whole of a big cigar.
Ah, memory wakes when we sit alone,
And tears will rise to my eyes like these
That spring at the thought of a girlhood gone,
Because of a scent on a vagrant breeze.
QUEENSLAND.
K. SMYTH.
The Deepest Depth.
I lived in the Hovels of Squalor for a year and a
month and a day ;
I was cheek by jowl with vagrants foul, who
gloried in their lot;
I felt the ease of slow disease, the opiate of decay
That lures into the gaping grave the harlot and
the sot.
I dwelt in the Halls of Horror, where only devils
dwell,
And the souls forlorn and the sins unborn grope
through the clammy air.
And preachers preach with silver speech about the
pains of Hell—
Their Hell was bright as Heaven to the Hell of
my Despair.
I left the Hovels of Squalor, from the Halls of
Horror fled,
And I joined the good old Brotherhood of those
who prayed—and stole ;
I chose to write for the hypocrite, and dwelt with
the living dead.
Squalor and horror I survived, but these will slay
my soul.
N.s.w.
C.R.
Evergreen!
So the summer comes again,
And a thousand flowers expand
Red and purple through the land ;
What a time for maid and man,
Heart to heart and hand in hand !
All the winter west winds blew,
And their beauty lay concealed,
Sap of tree and flower of field,
Till the sun with searching hand
Warmed and melted and unsealed.
All the winter, could it be
She loved him, and gave no sign—
Till what happened ? Some divine
Chance was sent whereby he saw
Love-lights in her eyes ashine.
O the shame if it were so !
To waste a whole long winter time!
So many months, with such sublime
Red kisses waiting to be plucked,
Fruit hanging low —no need to climb.
When the bright news made him wise,
He bent down and said, “ My Queen,
Red like this I may have seen
In sunset skies or autumn leaf,
But never on maid’s mouth I ween.”
Yet the summer shall take wings,
Folding all his robes of gold,
And a west wind blowing cold
Fill the woods with echoes like
Some dark burial bell slow tolled.
Then her mouth shall burn no more,
And no more her glamor thrall,
But, while leaves in legions fall
Red like flames, her charms shall pall—
There’s the pity of it all!
Yet, if he be rightly souled,
He will bend and say, “ My Queen,
Though the beauty that hath been
All is gone, in loyal hearts
Love is evergreen.”
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
On the Ferry Boat.
Upon the ferry boat I viewed
The distant town, the lively streets,
The little pier, the landing rude,
The yachts, and tugs, and white-sailed fleets,
The clouds which far above us flew
Reflected in the billows blue.
Nor did my roving eye forget
To note the giant ships which lay
Beside the wharf ; the small fort set
A sentinel above the bay ;
The flag that fluttered in the breeze
Like some bright bird above the trees.
I loved it all; ’twill never die —
That harbor scene, that summer day—
But live a lovely memory
Till I myself have passed away.
Town, fort, and sky, the billows bright,
Are all about me as I write.
VIC.
DOROTHY MoCRAE.


ħ
“I firmly believe that if the children
were well fed our workhouses, gaols and
asylums, would soon be empty.”
—Sir JOHN GORST, M.P
ONE CUP
Delicious OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Equals in nutriment |-lb. Beef or Ten Cups of
ordinary Cocoa.
And is absolutely free from all chemicals.
Aids Digestion. Braces the Nerves.
Invigorates the System.
“It is able to support Life.”— The Lancet.
LAXATINE
The Peerless Aperient.
The lollie-1 ike Laxative.
The gentle Regulator.
Not a violent purgative.
The Favorite Family Remedy.
Equally good for Adults and Children.
Sold by all progressive Chemists.
One Shilling a box of 25 Lozenges.
LAXATINE
m
LLLj
I
m
& DIGESTIVE TA^'
VEfiESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
j DOES HOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
\ USE IT WHEN COOKING
E VEGETABLES instead of
E OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Of Leading Storekeepers
Wholesale:
= YE6ESALIS Co., 2, Tower Royal, London, E.C.
; ENGLAND.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, do., Ac.
Sole Aoent for Australasia:
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
5
Jls
THE WORLD’S STANDARD QUALITY.
h
stle’s Milk Food
FOR CHILDREN.
The ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE for MOTMERS’ MILK.
x
&
Wz
m
%
TESTING ANCHOR FENCE.
NO fence on the market will stand so many or such severe tests as the ANCHOR
FENCE. It is the strongest fence made. Stock cannot injure it, nor can it
injure stock. It never sags, and if a large tree should fall across an
Anchor Fence the wires will not be damaged—remove the tree, take a few turns with
the ratchet strainer, and the fence will be as good as new. Lastly , it is the cheapest
and most durable fence you can buy.
IN OTHER STATES:
Melbourne —John Sanderson & Co.
Adelaide— George Wills & Co.
Fremantle —J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Launceston— The Tasmanian Wool-
growers’ Agency, Ltd.
Hobart —William Crosby & Co.
rnmz
I
'/77a
ETfci
.zz
Uluk
■*siU
•'/
5*5
if»s^
nr
2*%-^
am
sv-
i£>.
E. RICH & ,CO,, Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1339.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1005.
Prick 6d.
N.S.W. ARBITRATION.
BABY-FARMER WADE: “No. child, I’ll not kill you. That would be cruel. I'll let you die from inanition."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A nutralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
t The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fomvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Made, and While.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Is Co.', 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
HonoKon q,.—Brewer and Co., 22 Queen's Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
A gents 9 Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“Posters" will be attached to agents’ parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they will be displayed.
Tj^^xzlleZztfi.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1905.
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY-A GREAT
ASSET AND A GREAT DANGER.
That limited section of the community which is
for Australia first, and for some particular State
only second, still hopes that something may yet
be done, either this session or the next, about the
taking over by the Commonwealth of the Northern
Territory. This paper fully recognises that there
is a huge difficulty in the way. The resurrection
of that lost province, and its conversion from a
bankrupt wilderness into a great asset, is a work
of the first importance to Australia, but it won’t
directly and immediately benefit any State, ex-
cept perhaps, in a small degree, South Australia.
It would make a new State —probably a grand
and prosperous one—and thereby make Australia
stronger, richer and better, but to the mass
of nonentities who only represent States, and do
even that badty, and who represent Australia
not at all, this is a fact that counts for just about
nothing. Yet to Australia it counts for a great
deal. The taking over, by the Commonwealth, of
the Northern Territory, the completion of the
transcontinental railway to open it up, and the
establishment of a good land-settlement policy
there, are worth more to this country than the
Commerce Bill and the Union Label twenty times
over, and yet The Bulletin regards both of these
as measures of very great importance. It is a
hundred times more urgent than the row over the
Australian capital, and twenty thousand times
more important than all the mean, shabby little
sham grievances of Cook and Fuller and Conroy
and Johnson and the rest of the purely local
obstructives. The Ministry that takes up this
question will make a new departure, and will do
something to give a higher tone to a rather frayed
set of politics, by endeavoring to do something that
is purely Australian —something that is for Aus-
tralia as a whole, and for its people as a whole,
and for no State in particular. But to do that it
will have to ask Parliament to cease for a while the
grinding of the parish axe, and to leave off for a
time the nursing of the parish grievance, and call
upon it to think in continents for once, if it has a
think large enough.
* ♦ * *
What The Bulletin hopes for is that the
Australian Government will arrange :
(1) To take over the Territory as it stands, with all its
debts and deficits, also its scrap of unprofitable railway
and its other misfortunes —to take it over in a large, off-
hand spirit, without any sordid bargaining about the odd
twopence, and without any close calculation as to whether
the other six States might not, for the time being, lose
ljd. per inhabitant or some other fraction on the deal.
(2) To purchase the whole line of railway from Adelaide
to Oodnadatta-in-the-desert, or, if that can’t be arranged,
at least to purchase the line from Port Augusta to Oodna-
datta ; and to complete this line to Pine Creek and thus
make a Federal railway across the continent.
(3) To expel those big land-syndicates in the Territory
which can be expelled, their leases being forfeitable for
non-fulfilment of conditions, and to buy the others out
under a compulsory purchase law.
(4) To start a great Federal immigration and land settle-
ment policy in the Territory.
(5) To set about these things this year, even if Parlia-
ment has to sit till New Year’s Day to get the business
fairly started.
• * * •
Australia is in urgent need of good white immi-
f rants, but though the Australian Government can
ring in immigrants it has done very little as yet
at finding them work in manufacturing indus-
tries, and it has, at present, no land of its own
to offer them. Therefore it appeals to the States.
Tasmania has less than seven persons to the
square mile, and is a fertile and well-watered
island, yet so hopelessly cursed is it by great land
monopolists who block settlement, and by a senile
Parliament which allows them to do so, that for
over 40 years it has been exporting its own people.
It can do nothing with immigrants under present
conditions. Victoria has less than 14 people to
the square mile, and its most fertile region is
almost a blank, except for a big landlord every
ten or twenty miles—and sheep ; but so oppressed
is Victoria by monopoly that for 13 years it has
been exporting its agricultural population at an
average rate of about 14,000 a year. Apparently
it can do nothing as things stand to-day. South
Australia has about one person to the square
mile, yet by reason of the twin curses of
drought and land monopoly it has been
exporting population almost continuously for 25
years. New South Wales is in better case than
these three States, yet already a decided move-
ment of its farmers has set in towards Queensland,
and the reasons they assign are exorbitant land-
prices and extortionate rents. Unless something
drastic is done, New South Wales is also almost
up against the dead wall of monopoly. Westralia
has little good land, and what there is was mostly
jobbed away under the unspeakable Forrest and
his predecessors to great syndicates. Except
Queensland, there seems to be no place to
which the Australian Parliament can send immi-
grants, and Queensland has also the land-
monopoly curse pretty badly. Of course
the Commonwealth could, and should, make
room for 30,000,000 new settlers in New
South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Tasmania
alone, by breaking up the great estates remorse-
lessly with a ponderous graduated land-tax ; but
even if it did so there is no reason why it shouldn’t
run its own immigration scheme in the Territory
at the same time.
» ♦ * *
The Northern Territory has a larger extent of
well-watered country than any of the six States of
the Commonwealth —except possibly Queensland.
It has the only genuine great river in Australia,
for the Murray-Darling, though long enough, is
only at best the Big Trickle that the river-
dwellers call it. The Territory is splendidly
fertile in a great part of its area ; in short, there
is nothing wrong with it except Chinamen and
hopeless isolation. When the isolation is broken
by the construction of the transcontinental rail-
way—with branches to be built in the future
into Queensland, N.S.W. and Westralia —the
spell of ill-luck will be ended, and there
will be added to Australia a new State, full of
agricultural, pastoral, and mineral possibilities.
The speculation, if worked on intelligent princi-
ples, should be an enormously profitable one for
Australia. At present the unfinished transcon-
tinental line hardly pays for axle-grease, because
the failure of the money supplies left the terminus
in a waste of sand. The line crawled almost through
the desert, and then the undertaking broke down
when the good country was well nigh in sight.
Oodnadatta —the present terminus —has an annual
rainfall of less than sin. Across the border in the
beginning of the Territory the fall is llin., and it
steadily increases with every mile till it reaches
70in. and 80in. When the railway is carried 300
or 400 miles further it will be in a garden instead
of a desert, and after that every stage northward
will take it into better country. The unfinished
transcontinental line will never pay ; the finished
one, when the Australian Government had poured
in its immigrants, might be a magnificent asset.
If the Australian Parliament took over this enter-
prise the present bit of mostly desert railway from
Adelaide to Oodnadatta could be paid for by
taking over as much of the S.A. public debt as
would represent its cost. This liability, together
with the liabilities of the Territory, would then
comprise the Federal public debt, and if this debt
were consolidated, with a sinking fund to provide
for its extinction, it would be a very small burden.
As for the means to finish the railway, there
are many ways in which money could be raised.
A temporary export duty of £1 per bale on wool,
even if the Commonwealth could only retain one-
fourth of the amount under the Braddon clause,
would supply the funds to complete the under-
taking in a very few years, comparatively
speaking. The profits of a Federal tobacco
monopoly would help materially. The pro-
ceeds of a Federal graduated absentee-tax
would go a very long way towards the work,
besides having the incidental advantage of
breaking up great land monopolies and making
room for immigration in the old States. To a
strong Federal Government, with a party behind
it that was a really Australian party—which had
learned to think in continents—there would be no
great difficulty either in doing the work or in find-
ing the means.
* • * •
On this basis, the Territory would not only be
opened up—it would be opened up by a railway
which had no interest-burden to carry, and which
could, in consequence, convey freight and passen-
gers at a very low rate and still be a paying
undertaking. Then the Commonwealth could
survey the good land of its new possession
into farms, with a rigid law against any one
individual holding more than a certain area ; and
it could pour in its immigrants by thousands. It
could give away the land if it wanted to, and trust
to land-tax, customs, excise and minerals for its
revenue, with something in the way of an income-
tax later on. And if it got the right kind of
settlers their prosperity would be certain. The
Territory is eminently fitted for the production
of cotton—a crop which yields far better returns
than wheat; and now that the mechanical cotton-
picker is ready to take the place of the human one
and do four times the work, only the most viru-
lent liar can profess that the lack of nigger labor
stands in the way. Maize, sugar, indigo, tea, coffee,
and Indian corn are all calculated to flourish, and
in the way of gold, silver, tin, copper and lead
there are great possibilities, though the shiftless
and incapable Chinese miner does his best, by his
antiquated methods, to bring them into discredit.
So far, howeyer, the curse of isolation has destroyed
all possibilities of progress. The desert separates
the Territory from South Australia and again from
Westralia. An enormous stretch of miles shuts it
off from any place- of importance in Queensland.
It has practically no roads leading to its own fine
seaport at Port Darwin. The sea voyage from
Port Darwin to Sydney, Melbourne or Adelaide
runs into thousands of miles. So the Territory
has mouldered, as Western Canada and California
did for many years, waiting its opportunity.
* * • •
And while it moulders it is a positive danger.
Britain’s yellow ally, Japan, points to it as a place
into which Japanese colonists should be admitted
because Australia isn’t using it, shows no
intention of using it, and has not the claim of
“ effective occupation.” And Britain may some
day lend an ear to its yellow friend, and begin
to talk to us about the necessity for letting the
brown trouble into the land which we are not
using. Our own title-deeds as regards this region
are a shade less certain than they might be. South
Australia held it, so far as the series of very loose
agreements can be traced, as a bit of British terri-
tory which it administered, in a loose sort of way
on general principles. One of the conditions on
which it was held is understood to have been the
construction of the transcontinental railway which
has not yet been fully constructed. Unless the
line is built and some kind of effective white occu-
pation set up, the Commonwealth’s claim to the
Territory may yet be called in question by Britain
itself, if Britain finds it convenient to appease its
brown ally by finding him a new country to emi-
grate to. Certainly if Britain ever strikes a
day of serious trouble, the Territory is liable to
be occupied by the nearest enemy. There are
practically no white men to defend it, and while
the great railway is unfinished it can’t be succored
by land, and until Australia has a navy there is
still less hope of doing anything for it by sea. In
its present condition it represents a danger to the
White Australia policy, a danger to the integrity
of the Commonwealth, and an appalling neglect
of the greatest and richest opportunity in Aus-
tralia. It represents a vast area of about the
richest soil, the best pasture, the best rainfall, and
possibly the best mineral possibilities going to
waste.
• * * •
If there were strong men in the Australian Par-
liament, who loved to tackle great undertakings,
there would be a fascination about the idea of
recovering this lost province and making it a live
State, like Queensland or New South Wales, but,
unhappily, such men are still very rare. The
Federal spirit hasn’t grown sufficiently yet. The
small, sour State jealousies are in the way, and so
is the sleepless watchfulness lest “our” State
should get the thinner half of the split hair. There
is among a large section of small politicians a tend-
ency to attempt to build up a reputation for a
miserable kind of parochial patriotism, by finding
out imaginary wrongs done to “our” State.
The small yapping member, who never had a
large idea or a patriotic impulse in his life, seeks
to improve his chance of re-election by posing as a
wakeful guardian of “local interests,” and in
doing so he helps to make his constituents as
mean, as parochial, as suspicious, as unpatriotic,
and as un-Australian as himself. The proposal
to take over the Northern Territory, however
essential it may be to Australia’s progress—
even to Australia’s safety—will bring to their
feet most of the representatives of at
least four States to yelp in chorus, “What
does MY State get out of this ? ” And
just for this reason a strong and patriotic
Ministry, which loved to do big things for their
own sake, would attempt this work. The taking
over of the Northern Territory, the construction of
the two transcontinental railways, the acquisition
of all the State railways, the consolidation of the
State debts and the establishment of a sinking
fund for their extinction, the creation of a Federal
issue of paper money, the breaking up of the
great estates by Federal legislation, the inaugura-
tion of a large system of desirable white immigra-
tion, the building up of our industries by a high
Protective tariff —these are the sort of national
undertakings that would have fascinated a Seddon
or a Kingston in their best days. But Australia
is suffering just now from a narrow outlook and
an eruption of small men and small things.
Among the “great dailies” of Australia, the
Melbourne Age may be quoted as the only paper
with a wide, national, patriotic Australian outlook,
the only one which looks beyond its own State
limits. And its vehement demands for the
Federal resumption of the Northern Territory, for
a capable Australian army and navy, for the
Federalisation of the public debts, for the build-
ing of the transcontinental line, and for immigra-
tion, Protection, and land settlement are generally
set down in other States as being in some way
connected with that “ Victorian Conspiracy”
which has been so often mentioned.
SECRET MURDER IN LEGISLATION.
The Carruthers Government in New South
Wales, with the odor of land-agency thick around
it, and half-a-dozen awkward questions gibbering
ever in its face, seems to cherish the hope of con-
tinuing in office on the strength of its evil deeds.
It can do little useful work. But it can pour grit
among the wheels of the Federal machinery, and
gratify a monkey spirit of destructiveness against
the democratic legislation of its predecessors.
By these means it keeps its Tory press supporters
sweet, and evidently reckons that the “busi-
ness men ” of the community will condone its bad
reputation for the sake of the destruction of
progressive laws. Possibly if the Labor Party had
shown a greater degree of complaisance over the
Lands scandals, and had not flogged the Govern-
ment into a tardy ventilation of the customs and
methods of its friends and patrons, the present
proposals to damage the Old Age Pension Act and
to destroy the Arbitration Act would not have
seen the light of day. But the Labor Party
having gone into direct opposition on the question
of purity of administration, the Government has
thrown itself into the arms of the Tories, hoping
to keep in power with their aid and that of the
hush it-up brigade; and the chief price paid to
conciliate the Tories is the strangling of the
Arbitration Act.
* .♦ * •
Open to the gravest censure any Government
must be that seeks to breaksuch a solemn agreement
between the Legislature and the workers as the
Arbitration Act represented. That Act was ex-
pressly limited in term to seven years, with neces-
sarily the strongest of implications that it would
be in force for at least that time. Under its terms
the workers have organised into industrial unions,
and have abandoned, in most cases, their old
machinery; and now it is proposed to break faith
with them. Shameful as such an action would
be under any circumstances, the Carruthers
Government characteristically surrounds the
crime with such circumstances as to make it
politically infamous. Attorney-General Wade, in
introducing a Bill to kill the Act and substitute
for it a miserable arrangement of Wages Boards,
cynically stated that the arbitration system was
not to be destroyed, but was to be left “ to die of
inanition”; not to be beheaded but starved to
death. In view of that definite pronouncement
of the Act’s death by slow processes, Minister for
Works Lee, on Eight Hours Day, had the impu-
dence to state:
It had been said that the Government wished to destroy
the Arbitration Act. (A Voice : So you are.) They were
exaggerating.
That shows either a degree of ignorance as to the
purposes of the Cabinet that seems impossible,
even in Mr. Lee, or a brazen attempt on the part
of the Government to deny the obvious. Probably,
it is the latter.
• • * •
Briefly, Mr. Wade’s Bill provides that the
jurisdiction of the Arbitration Court is to be
absolutely destroyed. Cases cannot be referred
to it except when all parties to a dispute agree,
and when no Wages Board has been constituted
or applied for in the industry affected. That
means that no cases will go to the Arbi-
tration Court, since the objection of any
party affected —the employer, the union-
worker or the non-union worker—or the
appointment by the Government of a Wages
Board in the industry affected, will prevent such
reference. Further, in the case of awards already
made by the Arbitration Court, or to be made, the
Wages Boards have power of review, and may vary
or cancel all verdicts. Thus, not only is the Arbi-
tration Court destroyed as to the future, but,
by viciously breaking the tradition against retro-
active legislation, the Government subjects to
destruction all its past work.
* * * *
The Wages Boards which are offered as a sub-
stitute for the Arbitration Court are simply
farcical as industrial tribunals. They can fix
a minimum wage and hours of labor, and
can also give leave for the minimum wage
provision to be dropped in case of aged,
infirm or slow workers, which amounts to
declaring that the minimum wage provision
will mean very little. The Wages Board cannot
lorce anyone to produce books or to disclose any
trade “secrets,” or demand evidence revealing
the profits or financial position of anyone. There
is no provision by which the Wages Board, sup-
posing, with its limited powers of inquiry, it de-
cides on any award, can enforce its decisions. The
Board, composed half of employers and half of
employees in the trade affected, may be shocked
to its very soul by evidence of sweating
(though it is fair to suppose that one-
half the Board will be generally quite proof
against such shock), and order a revision of hours
and rates of pay. But it has no means to enforce
the order. The worker may, within 12 months of
his under-payment, sue, in a court of law, for the
difference between the amount of wages he was
paid and the amount the Wages Board said he
should have been paid; and that is all. Since
to sue he must inevitably face “the sack,”
and on suing can get only the bare difference,
and what he gets may not cover the cost of
getting it—there is no mention of interest or costs
or fine—it is safe to say that not one in a
thousand aggrieved persons will ever sue. Mr.
Wade’s Wages Boards would, in short, throw
the trade-unions back on the old remedy of the
strike, and that at a time when, acting on the
solemn promise of the Legislature, they have
abandoned their strike machinery, and prepared
for an era of peaceful settlement of industrial
disputes. The passage of the measure will
be an act of repudiation almost unexampled in
Australian law-making.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Very Poor Farmer.
Taking him in the bulk, the Australian is not
much of a farmer. The S.M. Hekald wouldn’t
think of teaching that it is only necessary to camp
on its doorstep to be a journalist; yet the Herald
and practically every other Freetrade paper have
encouraged the idea that it is only necessary to go
on the land to be a farmer, though there is quite
as much to be learned in agriculture as in journal-
ism. Further, even the Australian who was born
and bred on a farm has mostly left it too soon to
learn much; the horrible craving to be a bank-
clerk, or a school-teacher, or to sell four-penn’orth
of imported tape in a city shop, has called him
away from the cow and the plough before he
knew much of either animal. And even
when he stayed he hasn’t, in heaps of
cases, learned very much more about them.
His father mostly wasn’t a trained farmer to begin
with ; the farmer is a conservative, stay-at-home
person, as a rule, and didn’t rush out in over-
whelming numbers to the Australian gold diggings
or to make money out of a land boom. If he
drifted “on the land ” later on and made money,
it was chiefly because he got an early choice of
{josition, and made up in size of holding what he
acked in knowledge of his new business. Also,
he had new ground to work; and he could and
generally did make money, but only, in his dense
ignorance, by pauperising the land. When he had
filled his pockets that way, and found that his
own land wouldn’t yield at the old rate, he was
mostly in a position to absorb a neighboring sec-
tion or two; and so the double curse of big farms
and poor farming spread. In some districts,
where the real farmer—the man who knew his
highly technical business —settled, things are
different. You can generally tell such districts,
even though you only rush through them. The
cow has a well-cared-for look, and the scarifier
isn’t used to fill up the hole in the fence that the
poley cow’s calf made two years ago. Next to a
decent rainfall and soil and a handy market, abso-
lutely the best asset of a farming district is a
handful of real farmers who know their business
and practise it. Such men “ set the pace ” —they
are the beautiful line and the unimpeachable
moral precept at the top of the copy-book. On
the other hand, next to an absentee landlord,
about the worst thing that can happen to a farm-
ing district is to be over-run by untrained, inex-
perienced men who have been told to “go on the
land, ” and have gone accordingly. They aren’t the
copy-book’s beautiful moral precept in copperplate;
they are the rotten fruit in the apple-basket, that
spoil the whole lot. From their occupation
farmers incline to leave off thinking for them-
selves ; they are the boss imitators of the world.
They will live up to their neighbors, or down to
them, but they will tend towards a dead level
somehow. And it is just at this point that the
danger of introducing a horde of untrained immi-
grants from England or anywhere else comes in.
Jesse Collings, who, more than any other man
in the House of Commons, represents the English
small farmer and agricultural laborer, attacked
Booth’s immigration scheme the other day on
the ground that England couldn’t afford to lose
-its farmers. Booth’s son Bramwell, who, it is
understood, is to reign when the old man is
gone, replied that Collings was wrong—it was
only proposed to ship off the unemployed. That
made the scheme better for England, but infinitely


worse for Australia. What Australia really does
need in the way of agricultural immigrant, is a
sprinkling of well-trained men ; it is already
handicapped with far too many who don t know
the business, and haven’t any fixed idea that there
is any business to know. It would pay Australia
to import and scatter model farmers, British,
German, or Danish, who would make model
farms; it would be a positive curse to import
cockney unemployed to lower the already low
level of Australian farming.
♦
“Only 30,000.”
The financial authority of Sydney Telegraph set
out recently to explain how it was that the INew
South Wales working man was in so many in-
stances fool enough to be a Freetrader :
The manual laborers of New South Wales number over
half a million, but there are only about 30,000'who com-
pete against imported goods, and the other 470, uuu are
interested in obtaining the articles they consume as
cheaply as possible.
The statement is true enough—much more so than
many things which appear in the Telegraph.
And that it should be true is a disgrace to Wew
South Wales, and about the worst thing that could
be said about the crazy semi-Freetrade policy
which New South Wale 3 has followed so long.
That State has a considerable pastoral industry ;
it lives on the fact that there is no serious compe-
tition, because the world’s wool supply is barely
up to the demand. Therefore, given the area and
the climate, the laziest and most shiftless race on
earth can produce and sell wool. Also, N.S. W.
has a considerable agricultural industry, lhat
industry lives to an enormous extent on borrowed
money which supplies it with roads, bridges, cul-
verts and railways ; on the indirect subsidy it gets
through being exempted from local rates its local
works are charged to loans instead of to rates;
and on the indirect subsidy it gets through having
its produce carried by rail at a quarter or so of the
real cost of carriage. In fact, on every 10s. worth
of produce which the farmer raises he gets an
indirect subsidy of about 4s. Then N.S. W. has
those industries which every civilised country
must have and which represent the things that
•can’t be imported—horse-shoeing, sawing and
splitting wood, quarrying, building houses and
railways, repairing ships which are too badly
strained to go away for repair, building vessels
which are too small to sail out from Europe or
America, making clothes and boots for people who
can’t go to England to be measured for their
clothes and boots, ice-making, baking, supplying
gas and electric light, and so on. All these are
things which the worst fool of a country
hardly avoid having, and they all seem to have
about reached their limit. The pastoral country
is all taken up ; the farmer is going to Queensland
in search of land because it is hardly possible
under present conditions to get any more in
N.S.W.; and the demand for gas and horse-
shoes can only increase very slowly as population
Increases. But, outside the industries that a com-
munity of Anglo-Saxon descent could hardly help
having, N.S.W., under its semi-Freetrade policy,
has only found work for 30,000 people out of a
population of 1,400,000 —that after about 120 years
of alleged progress. Even of this handful the
great majority owes its employment to Protec-
tion ; the beer, tobacco, sugar, confectionery and
jam industries have always been protected, and
candles, galvanised iron, sawn timber, cement,
cheese, “soft drinks,” hams, wire-netting, and a lot
of olher things have been protected continuously
except during one period of about five years.
The finding of employment for about 2000 people
out of 1,400,000, after nearly 120 years of growth
and development, represents the whole of N.S. W.’s
success under Freetrade conditions in the great
battle of industrial competition. _ Otherwise it has
failed, and has gone on the principle of giving no
work to its own people that it could give to people
outside, making nothing it could buy, knowing no
industry that it could avoid knowing,, never
getting to the front when it could remain in the
absolute rear. Yet it is in the pursuit of indus-
tries that are exposed to competition that the only
hope of rapid progress lies. There is no prospect
of indefinite increase in the pastoral industry.
The country can’t do very much more in agricul-
ture while it has to look to the remotest part of
the earth for a market, and the people are suffi-
ciently taxed to subsidise the agricultural industry
already existing so as to make up for the lack of
a local market—they could hardly subsidise in
the same degree an agricultural industry of
twice the size. There is no room either for
indefinite expansion in the making of gas and the
repairing of broken-down tram cars. Where there
is, in N.S.W. alone, a chance to do (even for the
supply of the present small population) some
£12,000,000 worth more work per annum is in the
industries in which it is necessary to fight foreign
competition—in the production of iron, steel,
brass, zinc, woollens, cottons, linens, silk,
machinery, ships, spirits, chemicals, paints, paper,
manures, and almost every finished article, large
and small, from dredges to billiard balls. The
Telegraph is proud to say that New South Wales,
having in great measure adopted its policy, has
been utterly licked in almost every industry where
it had to compete with the outer world —that it
has failed, collapsed, gone under, and proved
itself unfit. And the Telegraph says that it is
the sort of State which does such things
which naturally votes for Freetrade. This reck-
less and unexpected telling of the truth must be
bad for the old ’Graph.
The “Blind Tourist.”
Just when Rees, M.L.C. of Victoria, was asking an
Unpleasant Sunday Afternoon crowd in Melbourne
whether the United States put up barriers to pre-
vent people coming in, and was yelling blastife-
rously at an inter) ector who said that was just the
very thing America did when the wrong sort of
immigrant arrived, a weary sub-editor was
chopping out of a Glasgow paper the report of an
interview with Australia’s recent “ blind tourist.”
It seems that, after the blind tourist had
been harpooned and towed out into the deep
water of Bass’s Straits and drowned (vide Stink-
ing Fish literature), he took ship to America,
and, on arrival, somebody on board was
suspected of measles, or chicken-pox, or
mumps, or something indefinite. Thereupon
everybody on board was told that it was A matter
either of vaccination or a fortnight’s quarantine—
they could choose for themselves. MTntosh, the
tourist, mentioned that it was only the other day
that he had been re-vaccinated. In that case, he
was told, he ought to be used to it, or words to
that effect, but if he objected to vaccination he
could go into quarantine all the same. When he
said that he would rather be vaccinated, he was
put through an extensive catechism about his
blindness, and asked if he was blind in the right eye,
also in the left, then if he was blind in both eyes,
and last of all if he was totally blind. When he
owned up that he was totally blind, this United
States, that doesn’t put any barriers in the way of
people coming in, wanted particulars about his
means, and lined him up with others, who were put
through the same sort of catechism on the dollar
question. The U.S. Customs seems to have made
every sort of inquiry about dollars short of un-
dressing the passengers and looking for hidden
cash in their clothes. Having proved most clearly
that he wasn’t a pauper, the blind tourist was
allowed in, with his arm in a sling; and appar-
ently nobody preached sermons about him, or
used him for Stinking Fish purposes, or built an
Unpleasant Sunday Afternoon upon his afflictions,
or reckoned that anything out-of-the-way had
happened to him. Yet he had got into Australia
without half the bother, and without having to
put his arm into any sling ; and when he told the
Glasgow Herald of the things that had happened
to him in his wanderings, the things that hap-
pened in America —the place where there isn’t
any Rees, M.L.C., to ask foolish questions and
make more foolish answers —got a lot more atten-
tion and vituperation than those that had hap-
pened in Australia.
Seddon Starts a Building Society.
Seddon, of Maoriland, is putting the Life Assur-
ance Department to another good use. High
rents have become one of the heavy loads on the
backs of Maoriland city and suburban workmen.
As the social legislation of Ballance and Seddon
put up the workers’ wages, the landlord took his
unearned bite. Wages and the cost of living thus
re-acted on one another. Wages put up the
rents ; then the rents put up the wages ; and, as
the tariff didn’t go up with the wages, the
foreigner saw his chance and took it. In the
M.L. woollen manufacturing business profits have
therefore been fading; local stocks have been
accumulating, while the imports of foreign piece
goods have increased steadily from £235,932 in
1896 to £416,340 in 1904. To prevent this
nothing will wholly take the place of
a higher tariff. But a scheme to reduce
the cost of living will do something; and
Seddon’s new scheme aims at achieving this.
By insuring his life with the State Depart-
ment, the worker can acquire his home and be
independent of the landlord. The purchase
money is represented by an endowment assurance
policy, which, issued at age 25, costs 6s. Id. per
week for 20 years for £350. If the man dies before
the 20 years have expired his widow, children, or
beneficiaries get the fee simple of the property.
Alternative schemes are proposed, including
extended payments without assurance. These, how-
ever, are matters rather for the actuary than for
the politician; and Maoriland has in its ser-
vice actuaries whose work has been well
tried, and whose calculations are worth a
good deal more than the vague mumblings of a
very dreary Opposition. The only point that
seems really worth the politicians’ consideration
is whether this system of providing workmen with
ready-made homes, or the S. Australian system of
Workmen’s Blocks, is the better. The idea of the
late George Cotton, the founder of the S. Aus-
tralian Blockers system, was to make the workman
independent of the ground landlord. If a man
could only provide a bark humpy for a start,
Cotton believed that it was wise to encourage
him to do that rather than go into debt to anybody
—and in a country where the tendency to lean
against somebody shows itself in a great many
disguises, there is a lot to be said for the S. Aus-
tralian idea. But if one scheme is better than the
other, they are both good; and when Maoriland
chooses one—it is of comparatively little conse-
quence which—it will have added one more bit of
very practical legislation to its record.
Race Suicide in Britain.
Keir Hardie, the English Labor M.P., lately
told the British House of Commons that there are
millions of acres in the United Kingdom itself
awaiting settlement, and that the country rather
requires to import than to export agricultural
population. The statement seems strange to un-
thinking people who are full of vague impressions
about density of population—impressions which
they never take the trouble to verify, but just
inherit in a general sort of way ; but all the
same it is solid fact. Any good population map of
the British isles shows about sixteen counties
which are uninhabited, except as regards a few
small towns—counties where the rural population
has been wholly swept away; and considerable
areas besides where the population is only a very
very few to the square mile. And the process of
extirpating the country population still goes on.
On more than one estate, every time the lease of
a farm expires the tenants are ejected, the
farm buildings demolished, cultivation abandoned,
and the place where corn once grew turned
into preserves for wild animals and birds, to be
rented for purposes of alleged “sport” to city
magnates. And if the blessed rights of property
continue to be respected, even to the right of the
landlord to destroy all the best fighting elements
of the nation, there may yet be a time when the
United Kingdom, outside the handful of bloated
cities and the mining districts, will be very much
as .Julius Uesar found it. It is a pathetic case of
race suicide—or race murder. The yeomen who
won Crecy and Poictiers and Agincourt are
almost gone. The hardy farming population of
the Scotch Highlands and of a great part
of the Lowlands, which supplied a huge
percentage of the fighting material of the
Napoleonic war-days, is almost wholly gone ;
the population map shows three-fourths of
Scotland as “uninhabited,” though there is
a fringe of population round the coast, and
some much-congested regions—a strip including
Glasgow and Edinburgh and the coal districts in
between, a speck round Dundee, and three other
spots about Fifeshire. A great part of the North
of England, more than half of Wales, and about
20 districts in Ireland—all regions which used to
send out a hardy soldiery in the days when people
didn’t cry out that the empire was in danger, be-
cause it had gone to war with a little nation that,
all told, wouldn’t make a fourth-rate English city
—are. also on the uninhabited list now, and are,
painted white on the map to show that they have
gone back to savagery. The sailor class, which
won Trafalgar, is diminishing fast—driven out to
make room for the Dago and the Lascar. There
is room for much agricultural immigration to
Great Britain if only that country would kill off
its great landlords before its great landlords kill
off the best elements of the race; but it seems as
if it wouldn’t kill off its landlords in time. And
there is also room to re-import a great deal of the
lost sailor population that was driven out by the
Lascar and the Dago—two kinds of men who are
never likely to win for Britain another Trafalgar.
The White Man’s Shame.
Francis McCullagh, of New York Herald, who
was with the Russian Army up to the battle of
Mukden as war correspondent and then was
captured by the Japanese, in his impressions :
In the afternoon I was brought to the station, and on
the way I saw a sight that moved me more than anything
I had seen during the whole war. In front of the Liao
Yang railway depot there is a large fenced-in space, and
this space I found to be crammed with Russian prisoners,
who had passed the whole night there on the bare ground
without any kind of covering. They Wire cold, hungry,
dirty, and miserable to such an extent that their worst
enemy might weep for pity ; and, all round, Japanese and
Chinese pressed against the railings and grinned at the
unhappy captives inside.
There were eight tents for officers. For a time I
occupied one of them, but as far as I could see there was
no latrine, no decent privacy. The unfortunate
“ Russkies ” were exactly on the level of a collection of
gorillas that had been captured, and this resemblance was
increased by the way the people stared at them. Poor
devils, they had hardly room to turn! They had not
washed for weeks, and no soap or water was given them !
Late in the afternoon the Russians were led from their
cage to the railway station : there they were driven like
cattle into open trucks. This long line of tall, patriarchal-
looking, bearded men marched between two grinning rows
of Chinamen and Japanese. There were about twenty
trucks in the train and fifty men in each truck. For
every fifty prisoners there was one armed Japanese.
The Japanese guard in each truck had the task of dis-
tributing the hard biscuits, and he threw the stuff among
his prisoners as a man throws bread to a pack of dogs.
Like dogs, too, the Russians scrambled for the food.
It was an uninterrupted yellow grin all the way to
Dalny. I have never before had such an opportunity of
observing the mirthless Asiatic smile. It was a kind of
noiseless laugh, and conveyed not only an appreciation of
humor, but amazement, keen satisfaction, and scorn sharp
enough to pierce the hide of a rhinoceros.
There was no tribute to bravery, no pity for suffering
in that cruel grin. The Chinese can see nothing honor-
able in captivity. It seemed impossible to sate their
curiosity. They drank in the tremendous significance of
the.scene with their eyes as thirsty men drink water, and
their curiosity seemed unappeasable. Many Chinese, who
had probably supposed the Great White Czar to be God in
heaven, were suddenly petrified when they saw us, and
remained in that condition until the train had passed.
Parents, with an historical prescience that did them credit,
brought out their little children to gaze on the train-load
of fallen white men passing by.
Meanwhile the Russians talked of their capture just as
if they had been captured by the Germans or English or
any other race of kindred. They failed to grasp the fact
that the Germans and the English are their brethren,
while the Japanese are as mysterious and incompre-
hensible as the inhabitants of Mars. They failed to see the
fact, clear as the sun in the heavens, that history had
opened a new account, that the Universe had entered on
an entirely new phase. They were as little alive to the
tremendous nature of the occasion as was Columbus’s
cabin boy when the New World was first sighted.
No such disaster has befallen the white race since the
days of the Golden Horde. Adowa was nothing in com-
parison with it. For two months, according to the
jubilant Japanese calculation, it will take a train like this
one, running daily, to convey all the Russian captives
through Manchuria to Dalny. By that time the Man-
churian peasant may well be excused for believing that
the entire white race is tilling the soil of Japan under the
whip of the Japanese slave-driver.
The shame was so flagrant, so glaring, that one felt
reluctant to regard it, just as he would feel reluctant to
regard the shame of a man dragged naked to prison in
broad daylight, through howling streets. One longed to
shut his eyes. One wished for the darkness to come and
hide the horror, for some natural catastrophe to take
place and distract the universal attention. One wished
to be small and beardless, like a Japanese. One felt
ashamed of being white, inasmuch as his white skin ex-
posed him to some of the unspeakable reproach. It were
nothing if the disgrace had been fictitious, temporary,
but it was real and eternal.
The man who had borne the white mans banner to
the easternmost limits of Asia, was now being borne along
himself by some of the fluttered folk and wild whom he
had come to civilise.
♦
Australia’s Unbuilt Navy.
Ex-Defence Minister M‘Cay lately spoke in
severe condemnation of the idea that Australia
should have its own navy because “ unless it were
equal in strength to the navies of at least the
second-rate naval Powers it would be no substantial
protection to the Commonwealth apart from the
navy of the Empire.” On the same principle
Australia should disband its military forces and
destroy its fortifications because they are not at
present equal to the army or the fortifications of a
second-rate military Power. It might even get
rid of its population because it isn’t equal
to the population of a second-rate Power.
M‘Cay’s arguments, and the arguments of those
who think what they think are thoughts similar to
his, are the theories of lazy men who find it easier
to devise excuses for nob acting than to act.
There is no reason, bar the hopeless attitude of low-
spirited lawyers like M ‘Cay, why Australia should
not maintain a navy equal to that of any second-
rate Power. Of course it won’t be equal
to that at first, but the fact that everything
must have a beginning is not a sufficient
reason why nothing should be begun. If every
one went on the M‘Cay principle then no
third-rate Power would have any defences
because it couldn’t keep them up to the standard
of a second-rate Power, and no second-rate 1 ower
because it couldn’t compete with a first-rate one ;
in fact, only the biggest Power of all would have
any defences at all, and the rest would sit about
and weep helplessly—like M‘Cay. Australia does
not contemplate at present raising a navy that can
fight France or Germany single-handed. That
proposition isn’t visible on the farthest horizon
yet. As matters stand, Australia can hardly, by
any visible possibility, get into war unless Britain
is also at war. If Britain is fighting a naval coali-
tion, Australia is always liable to be attacked by
some outlying force which the coalition has spared
from its principal fleet, Britain having concen-
trated its forces in its own waters. Or some small
Power like Chili might join the anti-British coali-
tion and profitably plunder Australia as its share of
the war. Australia should have a fleet fully able
to deal with any such probable force. By so doing
it might save a £10,000,000 ransom being exacted
to help Britain’s enemies. It might make sure
that that flying squadron, at all events, would nob
be added to whatever force Britain had to meet
later on. And it might save the severe blow
which would fall on the Empire’s prestige by the
looting, almost without resistance, of one of its
richest dependencies. Also, it would gain the
satisfaction of feeling that it wasn’t a mere worm
to be trodden on with impunity. Ex-Minister for
Defence M‘Cay is a moderate kind of lawyer and
a very respectable bridge-player, but as an advo-
cate of the policy of not helping ourselves, and of
lying down to be kicked with impunity, he is
above the average. He is a great deal better at
that than even at bridge. Germany commenced its
navy in the ’4o’s with an amazingly remarkable
flotilla of brigs and whale-boats, and was content
to grow. If it had never begun it wouldn’t have
grown, and the fact that at first it couldn’t face
even Denmark on the water didn’t prevent it
making a beginning. If Australia never begins
because it can’t be full-grown from the first, which
seems to be Mr. M‘Cay’s idea, then it will never
be of much defensive value either to itself, or to
the Empire, or to the White Man’s cause, or to
anybody.
Thrift.
That remarkable man, Dr. Lloyd, J.P., of
Melbourne, lately] told the Federal Old Age
Pensions Commission that indolence, drink, and
thriftlessness are the three great causes of poverty
in Victoria. As regards the indolence and the
drink The Bulletin won’t argue the point, bub
as regards the thriftlessness it _ considers the
ancient medical J.P. as something of an ass.
Thrift is a greatly over-rated virtue. It never by
itself made a nation rich. The individual who is
thrifty among a thriftless race may grow rich as
an economical parasite, and a small thrifty cori-
munity which does a large business with thriftless
communities around it may become rich by the ir
thriftlessness, but universal thiift means abject
poverty. The Chinese are probably tire
finest examples of thrift on earth, and
in China the poverty is terrible, though
the thrifty Chinaman may get rich in
Australia as a vampire sucking the blood of the
thriftless Australian. If Australia took unanim-
ously to intense thrift three-fourths of the large
business firms in Melbourne and Sydney would
close next week. The jewellers, the high-class
drapers, the fancy goods dealers, the places where
they sell elegant and costly boots and beautiful
furniture and pictures, the theatres, the music
shops, and scores of other establishments would
close, for real thrift only buys absolute neces-
saries. Hard, indomitable thrift goes to bed
early, to save gas and ruin the gas company; it
walks, to save tram fares, and ruins the tramways;
it doesn’t take pleasure excursions, and so depre-
ciates the railway revenue. A real bad case of
all-round thrift would not only shut up the most
of Melbourne and Sydney, and throw a quarter
of the population out of work, but it would
burst every bank and financial institution
and life assurance office in Australia by destroy-
ing industries to which they have lent money, and
rendering Superfluous property on which they hold
mortgages. When the ban Its recovered, or par-
tially recovered, from the first shock of thrift,
they still wouldn’t want much in the way of
deposits, because when the superfluous industries
Closed up there would be few to lend money to, so
the country would take to burying its coin in the
back-yard, where it would bring no interest. And
when, by thrift, a man managed to live on ss. a
week, his wages would soon come down to ss. a
week. Honesty and solvency are most commend-
able, but real bitter thrift —which is the art of
doing without things till people become aborigi-
nal and do without civilisation —is a dreadful
circumstance.
The Coming Stake in the Country.
Six weeks ago a Castlemaine (Vic.) farmer re-
turned to his homestead and found that the young
wife he had left alone had been attacked and
outraged by a Hindu hawker. The police were
notified, and Piriam Singh was arrested. The
evidence was too strong for the offender to pleau
mistaken identity, so the black brute crowned his
infamy by asserting that the wife was a consent-
ing party. At his trial it was showily con-
clusively that such a plea was ridiculous. There
was ample evidence that the girl had put up a
splendid fight untilshewasovercome. PiriamSingh
was found guilty and, in accordance with the prac-
tice in rape cases, the Judge recorded sentence
of death instead of passing it. Last week, this
sentence was considered by Bent’s Cabinet, which
indicated that it was very much annoyed at Piriam
Singh’s conduct by commuting his sentence of
death to five years’ imprisonment—just about the
degree of punishment inflicted on the petty lar-
cenist with a couple of prior convictions, or on
Naughton, the ballot-box swindler, who annexed
a little lottery money. Australia is one
of the few countries which nominally ex-
act the death penalty for rape, the reason
being that the immense distances leave women
unprotected and at the mercy of any ruffian who
comes along. That is to say, the death penalty
is provided to meet precisely such a case as that of
our fellow British subject Piriam Singh, who
furthermore belongs to a race notorious throughout
the whole Australian bush for attacking unpro-
tected women. But, instead of looking upon them
as most odious, the Bent Cabinet seems to regard
offences against women and children as almost
trivial affairs. It is only a few months since a
ghoul who outraged his own niece, a child of six,
under particularly revolting circumstances, had
his death sentence commuted to 12 years. The
leniency was attributed to the fact that the offender
was a “ loyalist” fireman on the railways; but,
judging by the Piriam Singh case, it wasn t that.
Had the farmers of Castlemaine known that
Piriam Singh would get off with imprisonment
for years, if he behaves himself in gaol, a halter
and a convenient gum-tree would probably have
settled his career. The stake is not a pretty
accompaniment of any civilisation, and Australia
does not want to see it acclimatised, but it only
needs a few more such decisions and a repeal of
the Immigration Restriction Act, to make every
dweller in the country keep a tin of kerosene on
his shelf ready for the black person caught com-
mitting what Americans call “ the usual offence.
—
Thkrb was a sound of hollow laughter like a
vacant mind in an empty kerosene tin—over the
proposal of Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., that every
Rep. should be in his place at the beginning and
end of every sitting, or be fined £l. The laughter
wasn’t very real, but it was very loud, and it tried
to cover a whole lot of discomfiture. It was the
howl of the thorns under the pot endeavoring to
drown the words of wisdom. Dr. Maloney’s sug-
gestion is one out of several ways to deal with a
very bad evil, and the principal reflections to which
it gives rise are these :
(1) It would tend to abolish the loafing amateur mem-
ber who drops in with a superior expression once a
month, and asks—as the unspeakable Reid had the cheek
to do lately, when he turned up after about eight weeks
absence, during which the payment of his salary was pure
swindle—that a debate should be done all over again
because he hadn’t been there to hear it. This individual
generally blocks business for one sitting, and then drops
out again with an injured expression.
(2) It would tend to replace this loafer with a man who
would really attend to business. . , , , .
(3) It might tend to drive the House into taking severe
measures to suppress the Stonewaller, and the Endless
Member, and the Copious Person, and the Human Inter-
minable. If members had to stay about the House till
Pumpkin Smith was finished, they would either gag
Pumpkin Smith or murder him. ' ,
(4) It would prevent Fuller demanding to know if a
quorum is present, and thus deprive Fuller of the use of
the only bright remark he ever made.
(5) It might create a general movement, not only
towards compulsory brevity, but also towards the
abolition of useless forms and ceremonies. If even the
tiredest member had to wait till the business was over
there would arise a strong party with a devouring ambi-
tion to try everything short of dynamite to hurry the
business.
It is a serious question, however, whether the fine
is sufficient; and if members had to attend, and
had to hear Williemotor Kelly every time he
spoke, the salary is certainly quite insufficient.
An £BOO salary, with £5 fine for non-attendance
or for failure to last out the whole sitting, should
about meet the case.
+
Vic. Premier Bent, after many painful wobblings,
has ended where he began as regards the separate
misrepresentation of civil servants in the Vic-
torian Parliament. When that vindictive measure
was whipped through a truckling Legislature by
Iceberg Irvine, Bent, as one of the Ministry,
voted for it. A general election came, and the
majority of members were in favor of its repeal.
The Iceberg departed from power, and Bent ruled
in his stead. Both Mackinnon and Hannah
tabled motions for repeal. One night, at a smoke


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
|| If you die, who will have the Farm ?
Your Family or the Mortgagee ?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(oe Nearest Branch of the Society).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment.
1 teas born '
Name
Address
KflMf
(N avy Cut.)
ĥ
€VCRY TJM£ •
on account of its natural
aromatic flavour*
GALL-AHER UP BELFAST- BELONG TO N<> TRUSTor COMBINE
ooncert, Bent was smitten with shame, or some
more or less unusual emotion, and declared that
“the time had arrived” to throw this piece of
foolish revenge out of the statute-book. Then the
Iceberg wailed its “ profound astonishment and
disappointment,” and M'Cutcheon, Boyd and
others spoke sadly in the Premier’s ear.
Mackinnon’s motion arrived, and the numbers
were up. But Mackinnon was tricked, or too
willingly persuaded, into postponing the debate.
It should have re-commenced last week, but Bent
just then got the House to declare, by 28 votes to
24, that it would sacrifice private business to
Government business. Then Bent flatly declared
that he would find no place for the motion on the
business sheet again. Though with a majority of
votes on their side, civil servants go without
redress, chiefly because they trusted the bluffing
Bent and relied on the Watery Mackinnon.
The decision of the Labor parties in general to
discourage Salvation Booth’s proposal to deposit
the human wrecks of England in this country is a
most commendable idea, but when the Sydney
Labor Council proposed, in addition, to distribute
circulars among the labor unions in Great Britain
informing the workers there of “ the true state of
affairs in Australia,” it supplied accommodation
for a great deal of hard thinking. Leave out
“Australia,” and consider “the true state of
affairs” in N.S.W. It is a very empty State, not
nearly so closely settled as Maoriland, Victoria or
Tasmania, though it is older than any of them.
Yet it can’t find land for its own people because
of land monopoly, and all the time that the Labor
party has been a power in the State Parliament it
has made not one strenuous effort to get such a
graduated land-tax as would break up the great
estates. It simply accepted Reid’s land-tax for
revenue purposes—a tax which falls practically alike
on the large land-holder and the small one ; and
wholly alike on the man who lives in the country
and the absentee ; on the man who cultivates his
own land, and on the rack-renting loafer who
lives on the toil of others, and on the person who
does neither but simply keeps his land a wilder-
ness and blocks settlement. Then N.S.W. can’t
find work for artisans because it imports almost
everything, and during the greater part of its
Parliamentary existence while the State Legis-
lature had control of the tariff, the State Labor
party did the dirty work of the importer by
helping him to retard local industries for his own
sordid benefit. If any N.S.W. Labor body wants
to send to England a true account of the condition
of affairs in its own State, the best thing to do is to
kill one of its own prominent Freetrade repre-
sentatives, and despatch his remains as a con-
densed statement of the case.
♦
Treasurer Bigjohn Forrest, after looking
around Mildura, the irrigation settlement on the
Murray, said it “showed on a small scale what it
was possible to do. He advocated borrowing in
order to develop the resources of the continent.”
Blundering Bigjohn couldn’t have chosen a much
worse place to sound the loud timbrel in praise of
foreign borrowed capital. Mildura was started
mostly in that way, and, as usual when the money
is borrowed, a huge scheme was entered upon with
a mighty splash, and it looked as though the
great national resources were going to be
developed at express speed. And then the
slump came ; the people who had to make
their living out of the great boom concern
found that the pumping plant wasn’t right,
and the channels leaked, and the settlers
couldn’t get water, and the -plantations were
dying (though that didn’t matter much, because
the wrong things had mostly been planted), and
the borrowed money had run out before the
agricultural college, or canneries, or preserving
works had been established. Finally, the State
had to go to the rescue, and, in order to save the
settlement from complete smash, had to relieve it
of its insupportable load of debt. After that the
settlers turned out to be a plucky lot, and instead
of rushing things with borrowed money, went slow,
and co-operated, and bit by bit dug themselves out
of their troubles ; and what the rush of foreign
money utterly failed to do, the grit and persever-
ance of the settlers have just about accomplished.
And it is there, of all places in Australia, that
Bigjohn talks of the virtues of borrowing “to
develop the great natural resources.”
♦
To the familiar classification of liars add a full
superlative degree—higher than that of the mining
expert—for the clergyman. The wildest yarns
are told by clergymen and bishops. For an
example, the Rev. F. E. Clarke, president of the
Christian Endeavor Union, has been telling the
American papers this about Australia :
The laws governing labor are often enforced in a most
exasperating way. If you are in a barber’s chair after the
clock strikes one on Saturday, or whatever day of the
week may be the legal half-holiday, you are liable to
arrest and fine, as well as the barber who shaves you. If a
poor dressmaker is seen with a light in her shop after six
o’clock she exposes herself to arrest in some parts of the
country, however much her customers may need the
dress or she may need the money. At one time, in some
sections, house servants were obliged to take a half-
holiday whether they wanted it or not, and were com-
pelled to leave their master’s premises, nolens volens,
unless actually prevented by sickness.
A physician whom I know', after a long and arduous
morning of calls upon patients, was driven home by his
coachman, who threw him the reins as they arrived at
the door, saying, “ You will have to take the horse out
yourself to-day, sir ; this is my half-holiday, and I am not
allowed to work any longer.” And the curious thing
about the statement was that it was not the impudent
uppishness of a servant, but actually good law, for the
servant and the master would both have been liable to
arrest and fine if the coachman had unharnessed the
horse. These may be exceptional cases of stringent en-
forcement of the laws, but they are certainly cases that
have occurred.
“ These are certainly cases that have occurred !”
Mr. Clarke is a splendid liar. Not one of the above
statements is true, or has even a nodding acquain-
tance with the truth.
An ex-Australian, who had been with an exploring
party in inland China, wrote a while back that
Australia didn’t know the Chinaman that South
Africa was getting; he wasn’t the smiling,
smirking coolie of the coast, but the sort of yellow
fiend who makes revolutions. And it looks like it.
A recent rough count resulted in these figures : —-
Shipped back (mostly for being incorrigible ring-
leaders in riots), 1500 ; in gaol. 1100 ; roaming the
country as deserters and brigands, 1000. Latter
are -in bands, and all over the land, as far north as
Victoria Falls, as far east as Komati Poort. As in
almost everything else, the vnostly-foreign Jew
financiers of the Rand have shuffled out of their
legal obligations in this matter. They are sup-
posed to guarantee the security of their Chow;
the Chinese immigration law puts a penalty of
£5O for failure to report a deserter. But there
have been at least a couple of thousand deserters
and not one fine.
Premier Bent has alarmed the Trades Hall in
Ballarat with a suggestion that the local prison
population should be employed in reclaiming the
worked-out goldfields by filling in the holes.
Bent’s notion of devoting State-paid labor to the
good of the State, instead of letting it be wasted
as of yore in oakum-picking, is denounced as
“undemocratic.” Some of Democracy’s cham-
pions are awfully illogical. On the one hand, they
rightly complain that non-working members—the
drones of the moneyed classes—are a burden on the
community; and on the other hand, they object
to making other drones cease being a burden
on the community by causing them to do some-
thing really valuable for their keep. There might
be an objection to outdoor work for prisoners as
tending to make them a show for gaping citizens,
but to work itself there can be none. Probably
the best way would be to provide useful and pro-
fitable work indoors and out, and let the prisoners
take their choice. Those who didn’t mind facing
publicity might do good service at levelling the
unsightly, pock-pitted surface of old, dead
diggings, and giving them a chance to become
pasture lands again some day, instead of remain-
ing as man, baby, and cow traps.
♦
The Select Committee of the Representatives on
the carriage of mails struck quite an unusual kind
of primary producer the other day, in the person
of William Barrie, secretary of the Australian
Producers’ League—a different animal altogether
from the Cranbourne Property Owners’ and Pro-
ducers’ League. Barrie’s association has Tory
Levien as its president, and it mostly exports to
England, Japan, and elsewhere fodder, chaff, and
anything else its members send along. Barrie
said his league exported a good deal of stuff, and
its chief trouble was the unreasonableness of the
privately-owned shipping companies, which, for
instance, sometimes charged 15s. freight to
S’Africa, at other times 305., apparently out of
pure cussedness. He was asked what his own
view was, and shocked some respectable members
of the committee by replying
The Government should have a line of steamers of its
own. The £150,000 now given in subsidies would go far
to paying interest. Why should the Government not
carry produce across the seas as well as carry it from
inland to the seaboard? , . . The War Office obtains sup-
plies from Argentina, the Government of which subsidises
steamers. ... If the Commonwealth ran its own line of
steamers and got a subsidy from Britain for carrying the
mails, he did not think the P. and O. Co. could compete
against it. ... It would cost about £4,000,000 to provide
a Commonwealth line of steamers, managed as the rail-
ways were and manned by white labor ; and it was absurd
for Australia —a third of the British empire—to go
to a private company to beg it to carrj' its mails. All the
producers he had spoken to except one approved of a
Commonwealth line.
Probably Mr. Barrie doesn’t call himself a
Socialist, but he is, at any rate, refreshingly frank
and straightforward and businesslike. Also, for a
producers’ agent, he seems to have an unusual
amount of common sense.
One sensation of the N.S.W. Lands Commission
during the last few days was provided by certain
bank officials. At an earlier stage of the inquiry,
an individual who was engaged on the
land in developing the country’s great natural
resources, declared that he paid a large sum to that
thrilling witness, Peter Close, who was to get
him an improvement lease or some similar conces-
sion, and Peter declared that he shared the
plunder with Lands Minister Crick. By way of
corroboration, the bank officials alluded to say
that the primary producer in question drew the
amount in large notes, that the numbers of the
notes were recorded, and that certain of these
notes were afterwards paid into Crick’s
account. After that sensation and the one
supplied by Peter Close there followed a
quiet period in the Lands Commission business.
There wa3 a sort of feeling that some-
thing was going to happen, and a sort of
silent waiting to see what it would be.
Crick made an appearance before the Commission,
where he was very quiet and self-possessed—
almost, indifferent in fact—and said little, except
that he would say a great deal more at the proper
time. The Commission adjourned a good deal,
and said little also. The Government didn’t
say much. The cable didn’t report Nicholas
Willis as having said anything remarkable in
South Africa —for some days Nicholas might
have been eaten by a lion for all the news there
was concerning him. Even John Haynes hasn’t
said so much as usual lately. In fact, all N.S.W.
seemed to have its ear up against futurity, doing a
great listen. And when Crick appeared at the
Water Police Court on Tuesday and was remanded
on bail, N.S.W. took down its ear and wore a
dazed expression. It is a long time since it had
so much to think about all at once.
♦
Theatrical management in Australia flourishes on all-
the-year-round patronage. The capital cities have no
“off” season for theatres, which is the trouble with
managers in most of the European centres. This summer,
for instance, twenty of the London houses were closed at
one time, some of them being closed all the time.
W. E. HAWLEY , winner and fastest timer in
Warrnambool Melbourne Cycle Road Race.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ L’Aiglon.”
Theatre Royal “ Thunderbolt.”
Criterion “ The Bush King.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Davy Garrick” and “Comedy
and Tragedy.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Cingalee ” (last nights).
Theatre Royal “A Sailor’s Knot.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Prince’s Court The Helter-Skelter Co.
*
“The J.P.’s” run at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, is limited to a fortnight; wherein J. C.
Williamson shows consideration for his patrons
and his prestige, for he hasn’t often staged any-
thing less worth the effort. But there is one thing
at least that Sydney ought to be thankful for : the
imported bills represent “The J.P.” in the final
scene,holding twins in his arms, but in the Aus-
tralian production the mechanical squeaking doll
which is supposed to bear testimony to the fact
that the J.P.’s nephew has already moved a
good way upon the matrimonial road is only
a single doll—not twins. Probably the squeaking
apparatus of the other infant got mislaid on the
voyage out; or the twins were reduced to a single
infant by way of compliment to the alleged
Decline in the Birth-Rate; or, by reason of much
Stinking Fish assertion, the imported English
comedian had been led to believe Australia
wouldn’t know what twins were, supposing he
mentioned them. Anyhow, there’s only one infant
on the stage whereas there are two in tne im-
ported bills, so there’s apparently less of “The
J.P.” than there was when it was, so to speak,
tried upon the dog in the Cold Country; and one
can hardly have too little of “ The J.P.” If the
other infant were dropped—especially if it were
dropped 150 ft. on to something hard ; and if the
infant’s father were dropped also, and if his grand-
uncle were mislaid, the loss would hardly be per-
ceptible. But it all ends on Friday night.
# * & *•
“L’Aiglon” returns to Her Majesty’s on
Saturday night, and there’s no doubt of the wel-
come Miss Tittell Brune will get. That tremend-
ously hard worker in tremendously severe parts
has been lately taking a very necessary rest, and
the sprouting Napoleon may be expected to fume
and cough with extra energy during this season.
The new support also will differ from the old
support. Miss Susie Vaughan will be Marie
Louise ; the young Queenslander, Miss Irby Mar-
shall, makes her first appearance with a J. C.
Williamson co. as the Archduchess ; and J. B.
Athol wood, Geo. Majeroni, and Oily Deering join
the co.
** * *
From present appearances William Ander-
son is likely to strike a bonanza in the dramatisa-
tion by Ambrose Pratt and S. A. Joseph of the
“Thunderbolt” bushranging yarn. What this
Australian melodrama is like has yet to be shown
—the first production is arranged for Saturday at
Sydney Royal—but there is no doubt as to the
keenness of the public interest which it has
excited. An astonishing number of small
boys in the community are collecting bot-
tles, with a view to a cheap pistol and
a bushranging career; and grey and grizzled
stock-brokers have been reading the “Thunder-
bolt” fiction and thinking, with a sigh, of the
days when robbing was a healthy open-air
occupation, and you could take your brother man
down under the breezy and stimulating gum-tree
instead of beneath the Stock Exchange roof. The
preparations made for the staging of the piece
have been elaborate and expensive. Charac-
teristic Australian scenery has been painted,
and kangaroos, magpies, land-agents, and
other typical Australian products will be
introduced as accessories. Meanwhile the “Woman
of Pleasure ” is doing her last nights, and enjoy-
ing herself in a fierce, laborious way that must he
more exhausting than hard toil. As a rule, the
hardest-worked female on the stage is the woman
of pleasure ; her job is precarious, and the returns
are very uncertain, and the hours are long, for she
has to battle with lunatics, detectives, and forged
documents at an hour when every pleasant woman
should be in bed getting her beauty sleep. And
on the cash results it would have been better if
she had also gone bushranging.
** * *
“Beauty and the Barge” was due to be
replaced last night at Sydney Criterion with
“Niobe,”and unless something unexpected hap-
pened to the lady from Greece she is there now.
Also, she will be there on Friday night;, and
then, amid public regret, the Brough-Flemming
Co. will wend its way to Maoriland. Some-
how a way is the only thing that any-
body ever wends these times, so “wends ” seems a
rather superfluous verb. Anybody who hasn’t
seen “Niobe,” and who misses this rare oppor-
tunity, will have cause for lifelong regret—tem-
pered by the knowledge that Alfred Dampier
commences his season at the Cri. on Saturday.
* * #
The Bio-Tableau and All Star Picture
Show finishes its career to-night at Sydney Palace,
unless it can be induced to change its mind and
stay longer. It has, on the whole, left a good im-
pression behind it. Compared to other Bio-Flicks
this Flickergraph has been very steady on its foun-
dations, andit hasn’tleaped and shambled and given
off sparks like many Tottergraphs that this paper
can remember. The average Bio-Jump is a misery
to the eyes, and more than one Flyograph that
has come to Sydney should have been indicted for
destroying the sight of the rising generation.
Therefore when a Bio-Tableau comes along that
doesn’t blow sparks at you that Auto-Flick is the
sort of Flutterscope which should be encouraged.
The Maggie Stirling season in Sydney will
mean a financial loss to someone. Very poor, but
very enthusiastic, audiences availed themselves of
the chance to hear the charming singer. Her
songs—English, German, and French—were skil-
fully chosen to prove her fine volume and richness
of lower register. The nearly empty Town Hall,
however, prevented the voice being heard at its
very best. Yioliniste Ethel Sinclair uses her bow
quite prettily on the strings ; all the same, she is
an ungraceful player, but a lot of ungrace would
be forgiven anyone with so chubby and kittenish
a face. Pianist Borsehke’s hair and playing are
good. The hair is mentioned first advisedly.
*# & *
The A.N.A. Exhibition of Australian
Products, at the Agricultural Show Grounds,
Sydney, promises to be a proof that the A.N.A.
can do something besides promote oratory and
such-like useless by-products of patriotism. The
exhibition, from present appearances, will be a
big thing, and will show what Australia can do
and can make. Not only have all the permanent
buildings of the show ground been utilised, but
annexes, costing £5OOO, have been erected. The
display will be of Australian manufactured goods
and of certain manufacturing operations, such as
weaving, engraving, die-sinking, jewellery making,
soap and candle making, refrigerating, box and
case making, and the production of aerated waters,
confectionery, shoes, furniture, upholstery, agri-
cultural machinery, oil engines, machinery for
making tins, &c. The exhibition, in short, will
give a hint to the Australian voter that the Aus-
tralian artisan can make practically anything if
he gets sufficient tariff encouragement to counter-
balance the lower wages, lower rents, and lower
cost of living in other countries.
** * *
Hill and Whittaker were poured out of the
Rickardian cornucopia on to the Tivoli stage on
Saturday; and the lady member of the partner-
ship proved that even a coon song may be
more than endurable. But the new firm does even
better work as harpists, violinists, and banjoists.
These, with the Brunin billiardists, Payen and
Lucie, and Diamond and Beatrice produce a bill
that deserves almost enough respect to be referred
to as William.
** * #
To understand why the original production
of “Our Boys” ran 1000 nights or so in London,
one has to remember the company that supplied
the motive power. They are mostly no more.
David James and Tom Thorne, co-managers, who
played the butterman and the soft-headed Talbot
Champneys; William Farren, a polished old-
school comedian, as Sir Geoffrey; Miss Sophie
Larkin, drollest of “old women,” as the maiden
aunt; Miss Amy Roselle (the ill-fated Mrs. Dacre
of Australian theatrical history) in the leading
girl part. All of them dead, years ago. The two
other principal parts fell also to artists who after-
wards starred in these latitudes. Charles Warner
was young Middlewick, the butterman’s son,
calling the old man’s attention to his dropped
aitches ; and Miss Kate Bishop shone as the second
girl. The cast was excellent, and the comedy,
written for that cast, was 30 years younger
than when Horace Lingard revived it at Mel-
bourne Bijou last Saturday. A melancholy re-
vival. The audience might have been much
larger ; the performance in some particulars justi-
fied the worst suspicions of the public that
stayed away. It had meritorious spots, of course.
Horace Lingard makes Perkyn Middlewick a like-
able old person, not sufficiently vulgar and loud-
voiced to be quite “ the cheese,” but a man who
would seem in perfect harmony with the character
if his name were Buttermilk. Miss Ada Lawrence,
who is a forcible little actress in heavy dramatic
parts, enlivens the third act of “ Our Boys ” with
a low-comedy sketch of Belinda, the lodgin’-’ouse
slavey—an Australianised Belinda, enlivened by a
generous meat diet and full of brave determination
to give the tail end of the show a good shaking.
Hans Phillips, Miss Bryer, and other people who


shall be nameless, represented the remaining
strength of the company. The saddest item ot
all was, perhaps, the meagre young man who
stood for Charles Middlewick, and appeared to
srow dimly conscious of his weakness as time
wore on. It is hard upon an unfurnished
■ ‘ jnvciilielead to have to strike a noble final
attitude and claim credit for not being ashamed
of his stage father, when he ought rather to bow his
head and feel truly sorry for himself. However,
Charles scored a pleasing unrehearsed effect. Me
nearly broke a door in a hasty exit, whereupon
the audience laughed joyously for fully two
minutes.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) they are
getting to the end of “ The Cingalee. I lie
colored Lauri will chase the missing birth-mark
for another week only, and, meanwhile, Miss
Thomas and all the warbling principals of the co.
are singing new songs, borrowed from the latest
London sources.
-* * * *
Bland Holt changes his bill again on
Saturday. Instead of the horsey and military
drama that drifts into S’Africa, he will revive
“ A Sailor’s Knot, ” which is naval and military
and Stirring (with a capital S). It will stir Mel-
bourne for a period as yet unspecified.
** * *
“The Darling of the Gods,” with Julius
Knight as the crimson villain of the piece, and
Harry Plimmer as the misguided outlaw who
wilfully gets himself into trouble, is telling the
gaudy tale of old Japan at the Princess’s for one
week only. The new Zakkuri putshis awful wicked-
nees in the strongest melodramatic light; and
Plimmer also is vigorous enough until he comes to
his hour of death (shortly before 11 p.m.), when
he fails to keep up his average. An expiring
hero in drama is expected to apply the bellows to
his vital spark, so to speak, ere he blows it out
with his last breath, but Plimmer doesn’t agitate
the flicker very noticeably. Miss Maud Jeffries
repeats her clever attempt to squeeze herself into
the part of a little brown Jap. girl; Miss Hamer
presents the rage of Rosy Sky in a thunderstormy
manner, and Miss Unie Russell, who will shortly
leave the co. and quit the stage for good, embellishes
the tragedy with a graceful dance. Scenically “The
Darling ” is even more successful than it was at
Her Majesty’s, and the vaporous illusion of the
First Celestial Heaven reconciles one’s weary soul
to the thought of wading through warm water for
a thousand years of Hereafter. The water must
be warm, for there are convincing flames of fire
glowing upwards from the centre of the rival ele-
ment. A fine effect, which suggests the song of
the Fairy Queen in “ lolanthe. ’ ’ The great love of
Yo San burns like a furnace in the background,
and although a celestial Captain Shaw has turned
the river on it he can’t quench the conflagration.
On Saturday the Co. will appear in a double bill—
Gilbert’s “Comedy and Tragedy,” for the first
time in Australia, followed by a new version of
“David Garrick.”
** * *
At the Athenoeum Hall, where Thurston
was lately producing unexpected girls from a glass
tank, J. C. Williamson’s Bio-Tableau will come
to pass in a new style next Saturday (14th). The
pictures this time include “ magnificent color-tint
tableaux,” and the managerial announcement
thereof is radiantly beautiful. The Banquet of
Visions is to be served twice a day until further
notice.
* sfe * *
Wirfchs’ Circus promises to spread its tents
at the old spot, on Caulfield Cup night—a night
that is seemingly consecrated to re-appearances of
circus. Melbourne has existed for eleven calendar
months without once renewing its acquaintance
with the piebald steed or sniffing the mixed
odors of a menagerie, therefore the advent of
Wirths’ will be welcomed like a corpora-
tion water-cart on a dusty morning. The usual
host of attractions on this occasion are
to lead up to the terrible sensation of the
Death Trap, or the Demon Cyclist on his Mad
Career. A year ago Melbourne would probably
have shrunk appalled from the Death Trap
novelty, but in the meantime it has shot the shoot
at Prince’s Court, and just now it is learning to
Helter the Skelter, so its nerves are equal to any
emergency. Besides, the Death Trap at the Circus
is another fellow’s trouble, and if the worst hap-
pened the public would merely have to attend his
funeral and drop a tear for the entertainment he
was wont to afford.
* * ifc *
A sweeping change in the Leroy, Talma
and Bosco (why not Letalbos for short ?) turn, at
Melbourne Opera House, is partly for the better
and partly otherwise. Some of the conjuring has
been discarded, to make room for a larger propor-
tion of “illusions,” but the chief “illusion” is so
full of incident that the eye of the onlooker grows
tired. It is all very amazing, but it wants snap
and humor. The snappiest of the new tricks is a
striking improvement on Wizard Thurston’s
management of the lady who rises from a slab by
in visible-agency. Leroy places a white sheet over
Miss Talma before the elevation begins, and
the effect of a human form under the sheet
is maintained all the time. Nevertheless Talma
turns out to be gone when the sheet is re-
moved. Evidently, three simultaneous performers
are better than one in the wizardry business. The
Rickards programme was strongly reinforced on
Saturday, and now it is not merely a few inches,
but several yards, ahead of the previous best.
A. G. Spry has recovered sufficient health to carry
him through a couple of songs. Ryder Stone,
who starts with the advantage of music in his
voice, is a somewhat original songster ; and Boy
Glen differs from the ordinary adult singer and
patterer in the fact that he is a boy, with words
to suit him. All the same Boy Glen is not an
improving study for the young. He’s a regrettable
novelty.
*¥ * *
Nellie Stewart farewelled at Adelaide
Royal in her favorite double bill of “ ’Op
o’ Me Thumb ” and “ The Marquis of Treville.”
Public support was rather capricious, but the
season distinctly advanced Miss Stewart’s
reputation in the steepled city as a power-
ful actress in all kinds of strong parts.
“Camille” (mounted with a perfection that
left other recent productions far behind) was
perhaps her best work, but the modern American
girl in “Her Own Way” was another striking
performance. Harcourt Beatty shows himself a
sound actor in '' straight-out ” parts, but not the in-
comparable Beatty of King Charles and his dog, and
similar gorgeously clothed historical characters.
Dudley Clinton and others gave good support.
Thurston has opened at the Tivoli. He was
heralded by a list of superlatives calculated to
make theatre-goers dubious; but he seems to
deserve them, and produces wet maidens from
transparent glass tanks in a sufficiently bewilder-
ing manner. The Ice Rink announces that it is
about to melt itself in view of the approach of
summer.
DRY DAWG-STREET.
In order to abolish the
duplication of street
names, the City Council
has decided to re-name
some hundreds of streets
in the city.
“ Look here , George ,
can’t you use your
influence towards
getting a street
named after
ME?”
AT POVERTY POINT.
Charlie Kenningham’s wife has died in England, after
several years’ illness.
Alfred Hill, the Maoriland composer of “ Tapu ” and the
“Moorish Maid,” has cleared £4OO on tour with the latter
piece. It cost him £6OO to produce, though. Still it is
good profit for a prophet in his own country when he gets
back his own money and £4OO over.
The self-consciousness of the great! A beauty-actor,
strolling through a big emporium the other day, plain-
tively asked a shop-walker, “What do all those girls mean
by staring at me ? ” The innocent sales damsels, who were
merely keeping their eyes open for customers, were
cautioned against gazing too long at the radiant one.
“ What’s the matter with Australia’s gairl ? ” sings Bose
Musgrove (who has never been to England) in “ The Cin-
galee ” nightly. The matter with Australia’s girl is that,
in endeavoring to meet managerial objections to her
native accent, she goes to the other extreme, and adopts
the tricks which Londoners play with the language. In
short, the only thing that’s wrong with Australia’s
“gairl” is her occasional desire to be a “ gairl,” whereas
she was much nicer as just a girl.
The absurd importing disease was recently exemplified
in one of our theatres. A serio-comic was starred as
“ Direct from Fogtown. One of Pimlico’s greatest song
and skirt artistes ” —or words to that effect. The lady in
question was really a Melbourne product, who had never
previously adorned any stage, but had only visited the
Cold Country. Strange how the Imported Fetish—
mainly our own raw material damaged by fog and sea-
sickness —hangs over this deluded land like clouds of
Bruce Smiths, Pulsfords, and Joe Cooks.
ltickardian audiences in Melbourne seemed puzzled
lately when a girl in serio costume warbled sentimental
ballads, and another, in the long-trained dress of the
usual ballad-singer, gave serio songs. Stage conventions
are rocky things to bump against, and the reception of
the innovation was not very encouraging.
“ Glubb ” : Please forward me the address of this White
Australia I have heard so much about. The other night
I went to Melbourne Theatre Boyal, and found Walter
Baker making love to a colored damsel, and apparently
winning the sympathy of the audience in his deed. Left
disgustedly, and strolled round to “The Cingalee,” to
discover a white Australian audience applauding the pro-
miscuous mating of Caucasian women and male niggers.
Went to the Federal Parliament House, and was just in
time to hear a legislator belauding the Jap as if he were a
seventh hatter. But there was some excuse for the legis-
lator. His nose was distinctly Asiatic ; and hang a man
who won’t stick up for his own country.
“Skull”: I wish the time were here when a right-
thinking Australian audience would arise and with one
solid, unanimous howl of execration drive off the stage
the sorry spectacle of a pretty white girl making amorous
advances to a coolie, kanaka, or coon. Evidently in
England they find nothing nauseous in the idea of a nice
white girl canoodling with a nasty Chow, or a coffee-
colored person of any kind, otherwise we should not get
so much of the piebald unpleasantness in our comic
operas. It is saddening to find Australians betraying
no antipathy when little Bosie Musgrove is hugged by a
Cingalee, seeing that we are not called upon to counten-
ance Imperial alliances with the discolored races.
A retired veteran of the boards who, in his day, made a
gallant fight for William of Avon, happened to look in at
a children’s fancy-dress ball recently held in Sydney. He
was pounced on by a gushing committee-woman with :
“ I’m so glad you’ve come. So nice of you, you know.
W T e want some ne to judge the Shakspearian costumes.
Just look. Aren’t some of them just charming?” After
a glance at the nondescript attempts, the imperial mum-
mer answered in that deep voice which used to demand
that the French crown should be handed over right there :
“Umph, I don’t see any.” “Oh, yes, there are quite a
lot. Some of them are splendid. Here’s one—Marcus
Superbus.” The tragic depths of the Moor of Venice were
in the answer. “ Umph ! umph I Marcus Superbus is
Wilson Barrett, madame— not Shakspeare. UMPH!”
Then the great figure stalked down the stairs, and a
minute later there was wafted up one more loud cry of
“ Umph ! ”
According to theatrical man Tom Pollard, the late
President Kruger’s house was converted into a hash
foundry, the proprietress being a Dunedin (M.L.) woman.
Pollard slept in Kruger’s room, and was led to inspect
the walls. To all appearances they were no different
from the plastered walls of an ordinary house, but closer
inspection showed that they were lined with steel.
Kruger’s relatives subsequently induced the tenant to
give up possession for a consideration, and the smell of
the warmed up yesterday’s “stoo” ceased to pervade
the premises.
“ Oxo ”: Anent your par. (B. 21/9/’O5) re mother
figuring in the chorus of an Australian operatic company,
whilst daughter played one of the leads. A like circum-
stance is to be found in a dramatic organisation at
present playing horrordrama in Sydney. Daughter
shines as the soubrette, whilst her ma walks on in the
ever necessary army of supernumeraries.
“ O’F.” : Glad to hear that J. C. Williamson has fixed a
performance of the morality play, “ Everyman,” for
Derby night. It will be just the thing to chime in with
the subdued feelings of punters who have lost at Flem-
ington during the day. Those who have backed winners
will probably prefer the antics of the blithesome serio at
Bickards’s.
The “habitual” up at Forbes recently experienced a
new variety of snake. One of the elephants escaped
from Wirth’s Circus, and, after a pleasant ramble, brought
up before a pub. door, and pleadingly shot its trunk
through in search of beer. The local drunk thought he
had them again, and made a wild swipe at the snake
with a beer bottle, and the subsequent noise sent him into
hasty retirement in the cellar. Then the keeper arrived,
and led the beast beerless and unhappy into captivity.
(This item is put into “ Poverty Point ” because of the
circus.)
“Yarrab”: Why does the juvenile lead, when under
sft. 9in., endeavor to increase his altitude by heel lifts ?
To the critical eye the effect is repulsive. He looks leggy,
has a forward slant attitude, and his pants assume con-
certina undulations from knee to instep. The idea is an
absurd one, for why should heroism necessarily be asso-
ciated with height? Experience teaches that the ’ero in
everyday life is generally an ordinary-looking lightweight,
and not a human Eiffel Tower, as the average horror-
dramatist would have us imagine.
Edward Branscombe, the tuneful lay vicar or ex-vicar
or verger or something of Westminster Abbey, is in peril.
When he was up at Broken Hill with the boys who pro-
bably never saw Westminster Abbey (a couple of them
certainly never saw any abbey further afield than
Adelaide, and Adelaide isn’t rich in abbeys), he warbled
one Sabbath evening, and now an Anglican protest has
gone on to the Bishop of London —“because the} 7 travel
under the patronage of the church, as representatives of
the historic Abbey of Westminster.” The protest doesn’t
mention that Broken Hill is a place of awful dust and
dreariness, and that Sunday is generally the dustiest,
dreariest day of the week, and that, as for the bulk of the
population, Branscombe gave them the choice of liste iii g
for one night to good music instead of playing two-up and
harkening to the street yelps of the Salvarmy, or devour-
ing beer at some of the so-called clubs, which is the usual
Sunday-evening programme on the Barrier.
“Melb”: Eileen Castles tripped engagingly on the
Town Hall stage, and gave us the “ Inflammatus.
Cheeky, of course. In five years she will be able to sing
it. Her voice is better than Dolly’s, and about half way
between that and Amy’s, but as you get up the register
of excellence how every fraction of an inch counts ! Amy
and Dolly are about the same height. Eileen is half a
head taller, an incalculable advantage in stage appearance
for one who means to do aught that is grand. Eileen may
be equal to the best soprano in Melbourne, but beyond
that she will never go. There’s nothing to make you sit
up.
A quaint theatrical story of the time when the Dunedin
(M.L.) Town Council was at odds with the police over a
question of permitting the public to loiter at a certain
street corner. It happened that a well-known comedian
and a lady member of the co. were standing at this par-
ticular corner when a policeman came along and made
himself horribly authoritative in ordering the inoffensive
pair to “ move on.” Seemingly he mistook the actor for
a contentious town councillor (strange mistake !), and
thought he was defying the regulations. The actor, not
understanding what all the excitement was about,
objected to move on, so the constable took his name and
address (also the lady’s) for a summons. Then the actor,
having discovered the real cause of the trouble, thought he
had better go to the police and settle matters amicably,
but the manager of that touring co. persuaded him to
let the case go to court. “Splendid advertisement for
us, deah boy ! By all means go to court, and I’ll pay the
fines and expenses. A mere bagatelle, deah boy, for such
a lovely ad.,” said Mr. Manager. The case went to court,
and the actor was fined £2 for obstructing the thorough-
fare. The lady, being an actress with a winsome smile,
was fined one shilling only. Here was the manager’s
opportunity for a splash. Bustling up to the official fine
receiver, he dashed down the bob with an air of regal
magnificence, and exclaimed to his confiding friend—
“l told you I would see her through it.” That was the
extent of his payment for the ad. The actor’s fine of £2,
plus legal expenses, was paid by himself.
“Jimmie Pannikin” : In wayback Wanaaring I saw a
man between the shafts of his own home-made machine
for carrying his celebrated gramophone. On one shaft
hung the water-bag and tucker-bag ; on the other was
bluey. The wheels were old bike wheels. The ’phone
was fixed to a platform raised about two feet above the
rubber tyres. The proprietor allowed me to secure a
snapshot of his unique vehicle ; but refused, even for 55.,
to be photographed between the shafts. “I am a beast
of burden now,” he said, “ but still I object to be photo-
graphed as such.” He gravely called himself and his out-
fit “ The Premier Paroo Concert Company.” He told me
that he had been working the suburbs of Outerback in
conjunction with a saltbush circus, until he discovered
that his show was doing all the drawing of crowded
houses, and that the circus was a secret drinker.
“ The theatre kills the drama. Actors and actresses
ought to be swept off by the plague. Art is poisoned.
Let us get back to the Greeks, in the open air.”—
Eleonora Duse.
A recent London competition for a lyric opera written
in English shows the poor estimation in which a librettist’s
work is held. The music-publishing firm of Bicordi insti-
tuted the competition. Two hundred libretti were re-
ceived from various parts of the world. Composers of
British birth are now invited to supply competitive music
to fit the winning libretto. The successful composer will
receive £5OO, and “ it will be left to him to settle the re-
muneration of the librettist.” Under this system pro-
bably there will be chosen some wretched Poet Bunn
effort, which is not worth even the few pounds the
grudging composer will fork out. With opportunities
like this flying round loose it is not surprising that the
well-written libretto is nearly as scarce as the moa.
“ E.” : Marshall-Hall is gradually absorbing the Bush,
and he is even trying to express it musically. He has
written one “ Bush Symphony ” that has gone to Ger-
many ; but he hopes to get past it next time. The themes
are huge and heroic enough ; but there is no native music
or dances or folk songs to make the local color obvious, as
in most old countries, though that may not be all to its
disadvantage. Hall is getting more Australian each year.
He reckons he has infinitely greater freedom, and there-
fore a finer atmosphere for art work, in Melbourne than he
would have in London, where he would have to go into
Society, talk politely to the orchestra, write dreary
religious moral respectable music for the Brixton Con-
science, or else conduct at a variety or musical-comedy
show.
“ T.D.”: People have been wondering how an obscure
chorus charmer of Williamson’s Comic Opera co. managed
to screw her way into a part at a London theatre imme-
diately on arrival in the dear Cold Country. This was
her way. She found herself among a hundred or more
applicants day after day for a week, and finally determined
that something desperate must be done. So, when the
manager assured her that he had “ nothing yet,” she sat
down firmly and remarked, “ Well, see here, I’m coming
in everv day until I get something. I must have a show.
You don’t think I’ve come 16,000 miles for nothing.
You’ve just got to take me.” And the manager shrugged
his shoulders, grinned, and said, “ If you put it that way,
I suppose I must.” But stories of that sort spread
quickly at the actors’ clubs, and any plagiarism of the
idea is bound to fail. The next lady must invent her own
way of clubbing the manager into a pleasant frame of
mind.
Bessie Palmer, a favorite English contralto who retired
in the eighties, has published her recollections. Edward
Lloyd’s mother was one of her teachers. She appeared
in opera, and afterwards sang at concerts and in oratorio
with such artists as Patti, Tietjens, Jennie Lind, and
Santle.v, and for years was constantly associated with
Sims Beeves. She notes that Beeves first studied and
sang as a baritone, and was at that time known as “ Mr.
Johnson ” and “John Beeves.” It seems to have been the
fashion in Bessie Palmer’s time for a moral father to
declare that he would sooner see his daughter in her coffin
than on a public platform. One original person varied
the formula by saying that before a child of his should
sing in a theatre he would cut her legs off. Somehow the
daughter thus threatened got through a stage career
without any serious amputation. When Herbert Ingram
started the Illustrated London News (mainly to adver-
tise a brand of pills), Miss Palmer’s father printed the
paper, and was invited to join as partner. His cautious
wife dissuaded him, and so he threw overboard the chance
of making a fortune out of the brilliant publication which
issues each week about eight pictures of Edward VII.
opening something in a top-hat, or patronising something-
in a top-hat, or saying that he is deeply gratified—in a top-
hat.
“T.D.” : The tinkling tenors of Australia who strive
after a heady, pretty-pretty tone should just come along
to Europe and listen to Caruso, now demanding £4OO a
night for singing. Or, for that matter, they would be
benefited by hearing any of the leading tenors, all of
whom pay attention primarily to the development of a
baritone quality instead of that silvery ring which found
its perfection in the voice of Dani, and resulted in that
singer’s eventual undoing. Caruso, at the first hearing,
sounds for all the world like a baritone of the Santley
kind, with a deep emotional throb in the voice that
appeals straight to the hearts of an audience. As he pro-
gresses through an opera, the “ ring” develops, until he
reveals himself an unmistakable tenor. It is at this
point that his voice sometimes hardens a bit, through
reversion to exactly that manner of singing which every
Australian tenor is struggling to get. It is not often
recorded, but it is nevertheless a fact, that Caruso,
through striving after tenor rather than baritone quality,
nearly ruined his voice, and had, in consequence, to stand
down for a whole two years without being allowed to
sing a note. Alvarez, De Eeszke (a baritone until he was
forty), DalmoVes, Anselmi, Van Dyck, every one of them
would have been informed in Australia that he was too
“ baritony,” but that is the voice which counts.
The funniest of the old stock lines in theatrical gossip
is the statement that the So-and-So Dramatic Co. will
“ take a fortnight’s rest,” or a week’s rest between certain
dates. As though any co. ever took a rest! It is given a
“ rest,” and it swears at the unprofitable gift. Actors
are day-laborers, working for what is ironically called a
weekly salary. If they miss one night’s work they miss
one day’s wage.
An English actor confesses that he has never seen any
theatrica! company cross the border into Scotland without
one of the comedians performing an imitation Scotch reel
on the platform, generally with a railway rug twisted
round him, and exclaiming “ Hoo’s a’ wi’ ye?” to the
nearest station official. Some of these mummers are
funny dogs.
At Ocala (U.S.) none of the animals in a great mena-
gerie could be got to perform, and the reason was found
to be that the pitch was over an old graveyard. The
beasts smelt the ghosts and the bones.
American critic Norman Hapgood on the comedies of
W. S. Gilbert, nearly all of which are unaccountably
shelved, in America as elsewhere :—“ Gilbert, wittiest of
living men, nimble and airy, more dramatic and far more
intelligent than anybody else in town. ... In celebrat-
ing the beauty and humor (of ‘Pygmalion and Galatea’)
I might waste pages in the futile effort to express the
feelings aroused by such a wholly masterly work of art.
If Gilbert does not deserve to stand with Sheridan, what
English dramatist since Sheridan is to be in permanent
fame his rival? When that rich man of whom we dream
establishes his ideal theatre, if he is not too patriotic to
allow foreign plays, surely not only ‘ Pygmalion and
Galatea ’—one of the very finest comedies in the language
—but many of Gilbert’s, from poetry to farce, will again
delight us.” Gilbert’s supremacy in everything he has
essayed will perhaps be generally recognised a century
hence; when he has shaken off the drawback of being
alive, his writings will remain, as Zangwill put it of
another’s, “so brilliant that they stand in their own
light.”
“G. Elburg”: Women are very easily moved to sym-
pathy with love’s young- sorrow in the abstract—more
particularly on the stage. Mrs. and Miss Subbubs agree
between tearful sniffs that “-Old Heidelberg” is terribly
sad, yet if their Bertie proposed to marry or even
philander with a domestic, were she the sweetest thing in
caps, their horror would be unbounded and the girl
would be discharged so suddenly that she would take four
front steps at a jump in her departure. I think
“ Heidelberg ” is a particularly stupid sample of the class
of playlet that depicts the hard lot of the fellow in the
King business, and feel no sympathy with Karl H. in the
thwarting of his noble ambition to drink beer and wear
colored ribbons and girl across his breast indefinitely.
Alter the story a very little and it becomes the conven-
tional squealodrama, with Karl the villain who “ roons ”
the trusting rural maiden, amidst the execrations of the
gods.
“Adelaide”: Don’t mummers ever think ? (l)Harcourt
Beatty, in the 3rd act of “Old Heidelberg,” packs his
handbag carefully with all the little things he treasures
most—and goes away leaving It conspicuously behind in
the middle of the stage! (A slip ? Hardly, for I have
seen the play twice, and it was the same both times.)
(2) When Brough was ill in W. A., M'Keown was promoted
to play Hankey Bannister. Then Flemming was too ill to
visit Adelaide at all, and Brough played Frobisher,
M'Keown continuing as before. Miss Winifred Fraser
has to say concerning Bannister, “ I played to the little
man, sang to him,” etc. ; and she said it calmly all
through the Adelaide run of the piece. (Miveown is a
six-footer, and solid at that.) (3) In a third-rate, but pro-
fessional, “Ned Kelly ” play at Adelaide Tivoli this winter,
the gang was being broken up in the hotel at Glenrowan.
Every man who showed at door or window was shot down
by the troopers outside. When the last but one fell, Ned
declared, “ I will yet save you ! ” picked him up, opened
the door, and ir arched out with him ! (4) In the booming
contingent days a war drama was put on at Adelaide
Boyal. Evidently it was a Soudan piece hastily altered to
fit,'and the carpenter had overlooked two lines. Do you
suppose the players saw anything wrong? The soldier-
villain threatened to hand over the heroine to “ those
dusky fanatics yonder ” ; and the comic man’s deserted
wife, turning up to claim him, said she had landed at
Alexandria and walked the rest of the way !
Decima Moore, remembered in Australia as the flutey-
voiced little prima-donna of the “ Gaiety Girl ” co. (where-
of Florence Lloyd was another ornament), was married
the other week to a Major Guggisberg, and Conan Doyle
acted as best man at the wedding. Dainty Decima and
her admirers provided material for a serio-comic story
ten years ago, when she arrived at Wellington en route for
Australia. At that time, there was a tall athletic fianeb
travelling as a minor member of the co. Also,
there was a popular baritone of Williamson’s Opera co.,
who had been a suitor for her affections in England. By
an odd chance, the baritone happened to be at Welling-
ton when his charmer arrived, and he, reckoning himself
quite tall enough to impress any ordinary johnnie, boarded
the boat in a truculent mood, intending to talk business
to his rival. But when the lady appeared with a Oft. Yin.
cavalier in attendance, the warlike baritone felt quite
unequal to his intentions. He merely raised his hat
defiantly to the colossal stranger, and said, “ Mr. So-and-
so, I believe ? ” So-and-so drew himself up until he looked
fully 9ft. high, and replied interrogatively, “ Well l ” The
baritone mumbled a satirical expression of satisfaction at
having met So-and-so face to face, and passed on, leaving
the favored swain to revel in his triumph. In love, as in
war, a plan of attack is often changed into retreat by the
appalling size of the enemy. Even jealousy must be
diplomatic when confronted by tremendous odds.
“N.”: I had an enormously rich bucolic English
relative, named Sims Beeve. The poor noodle used to
agonise lest he should be mistaken for the singer. Like
the servant girl who said her name was “ Shakspeare,
mum —but no relation to the play-hactor of that name,
mum.” Mrs. Tallowfat implored the principal of the
Melb. Presbyterian Ladies’ College not to turn her
daughters into Madame Melbas.
The business manager of Covent Garden Theatre is a
much decorated person. Ten years ago, when he was
master of ceremonies at Drury Lane, the precious Order
of Saxe Coburg Gotha was “ conferred ” upon him for his
unfailing courtesy, &c., to a company of German actors.
He got a French distinction for flunkeying a royal com-
mand performance given to President Loubet. He is
“ Chevalier of the Boyal Order of Isabel of Spain,” be-
cause he made things pleasant for Kings Edward and
Alfonso when they visited the opera, and for all the
reasons aforesaid he has been graciously appointed a
member of the Boyal Victorian Order. Kings, being
mummers, delight to honor the people who stage-manage
their mummeries.
W. S. Gilbert claims to be descended from Humphrey
Gilbert, the old-time navigator who went a-voyaging to
America with his half-brother Walter Baleigh, and in
another voyage took possession of Newfoundland in the
name of Elizabeth the Bampageous and Bed-headed.
Of all the life-members of Maoriland Leg.
Council who wept over the election which brought
Ballance and Seddon into power, only five now
remain in life. They are old and frail, and in
September occurred a calamity that almost
swept them away. A new interpreter had been
sworn in to assist Maori Mahuta to make his
ignorance more obvious to his fellows, and the
new interpreter did not know the first principles
of his duties, for when a discussion arose as to the
meaning of a Maori word he chipped in with his
opinion. This was at variance with other mem-
bers’ opinions, so he got up again and argued the
point. Then while the Five were perishing of
shock on their cushioned seats the interpreter
again broke forth and commenced to make speech.
Here an old marine member —looking fit to drop his
company’s biggest steamer on the offender—asked
in stifled tones, “Who Is The Person Now
Addressing Us?” Explanations followed; and
the Long-lived Five are expected to be soon con-
valescent enough to resume their duties of pro-
testing against Socialistic trends and other night-
mares.
TEMPERANCE
BEER CASE.
A cordial manu-
facturer has been
fined on a charge of
brewing beer con-
taining 2 per cent,
of alcohol without
having a license to
do so. The cordial
manufacturer’s case
was that the alcohol
was produced by
chemical changes
that had appar-
ently set in after
the brew had been
bottled.
“Say, Willy, have
you drunk that
ginger-pop yet?"
“ Sho, Isabelle You, don't suppose any sailor-
man would drink ginger-pop that hadn't been
matured two or three days!"


BOOKKEEPING
Taught by Post. We
have the HIGHEST
SUCCESSES in Accoun-
tants’ Examinations.
Intending Candidates thoroughly prepared in all
subjects. “ Home Study ” post free.
Stott & Hoare’s Business College
MOORE STREET, next Citizens’ Life Building, fl
m
r
:(OESET. ‘ i
EXQUISITE MODELS. PERFECT FIT.
jt J GUARANTEED WEAR. J*
THE NEW
...CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONB.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
SOCIETY
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
A Sydney charitable institution has had
the gall to submit for the approval of the Govern-
ment auditor a balance-sheet containing an item
of half a guinea expended on a wreath sent to
the funeral of the deceased wife of a member of
the committee. The weepful token was bought
out of the funds entrusted to the committee for
disbursement among the poor. State auditors
don’t see everything, but this particular 10s. 6d.
was too “strong” to escape notice, and remarks
were made.
THE RUNNING DISEASE.
“ My motor-bike ran into eighty guineas .”
“ Lucky dog. Mine ran into a brick wall."
The first beginnings of the Children’s
Courts in Sydney were discouraging. As an
example of good intentions the courts are all right.
The small burglar is to be detained kindly under
the care of a matron at a house in Paddington
instead of at a lockup. He is to be spoken to
kindly by an official in a private room instead of
being put into the dock by a policeman and dealt
with by a magistrate. He is to be sent kindly to
an industrial school if necessary, and walloped
kindly if it can’t be helped. The trouble is that
the first three small burglars who were put through
the preliminary processes didn’t take things
seriously. They thought they had fallen into the
hands of an old woman with a tract instead of into
those of the law, and they promptly skipped from
the house in Paddington. The police re-captured
them, and had hardly done so when one skipped
again, and the other two are liable to skip at any
moment. Apparently the private court and the
kind remonstrance are all very good, but unless
the Law goes back to its old practice of locking up
the small offender the trouble will be to find him
when the hour of kind remonstrance arrives.
* • « *
The diamond jubilee of the oldest German
Lutheran Church in Australia has just been cele-
brated at Lobethal (S. A.). The first pastor bore
the sneezy name of Fritsche ; the builder owned
the equally sneezy name of Kleinsnidt; and the
discoursers at the jubilee were named Graebner,
Kriewaldt and Wiebusch. From 1841 to 1843 18
Teuton families at Lobethal held regular Sunday
services under a spreading gum-tree. It took
them two years to build the church.
That grovelling person, C. W. D. Good-
chap, who wrote to Edward VII. suggesting that
Australia should be re-named Brunswick, and its
capital be called Guelph, probably missed the fact
that Edward Vll.’s back name is not Guelph,
and that the House of Brunswick is no longer on
the British throne. Thus do the best-laid schemes
of flattery miscarry for want of a little knowledge.
C. W. D. Goodchap is in much the same position
as the farmer who wanted to do George Reid a
good turn in the early days of the Fat One’s
N.S.W. Premiership—also he probably wanted a
culvert or something—and, not having the least
idea that there had been a change of rulers,
cheered wildly for Dibbs. So far as is known he
didn’t get his culvert.
* * * *
It was inevitable. He was a grubby man,
wearing an exploded hat and a pair of ill-matched
boots, and he was before the Richmond (Vic.)
court on a charge of petty larceny. He grew
confidential in his own defence. “ It’s like thish,
yer ’Onners,” he said, “I’m naturally an honest
man, but I seen these dishes lyin’ out in a yard
where anybody might ’a’ sneaked ’em, ’n’ I carted
’em off ’n’ pawned ’em. Fact is, gentlemen, I’d
been readin’ that ‘ Thunderbolt ’ stuff in the
Argus.” The police looked up seven previous
convictions, and the victim of pernicious literature
went to gaol for three months.
* * * *
Bishop Mercer, of Hobart, lately addressed
Sydney women in St. James’s Hall on the subject
of fantastic dress. He boldly declared that no
one, man or woman, should wear anything which
would draw attention, and that dress should be
devised solely for comfort. Then a lady coughed
with such energy that the bishop looked at her,
and found that she had half-risen from her seat
and was gazing with an intense expression at his
gaiters and his apron and his calves, and there
was a pause that could have been measured with a
yardstick. It was an impressive moment —the
pot on the platform and the kettle in the audience,
and the pot wondering what on earth to say to
the kettle.
* * * *
The Law seems to have an amazing
sympathy with brutality. That bulky 14-year-old
girl named Harris, who abducted a child of six at
Bairnsdale (Vic.), stripped her naked, flogged her
nearly to death, dragged out one of her teeth,
and then soaked her in a horse-trough, has been
ordered to find £lO worth of security that she
won’t do any further horrors for 12 months, and
the father having given £lO security nothing
happens to the small fiend. If Miss Harris is a
lunatic, she should be doing a spell in an asylum
for the insane. If she is quite sound mentally,
she ought to be doing as long a term in gaol as the
law allows, on the ground that she is a public
danger while she is at large. The only visible
reason why she is doing neither of these things is
that, to the average magistrate, the horrible and
wanton torturing of a child is of less account than
the stealing of £1 or so—in fact, torture appears to
come as near as possible to being a commendable
act. How people of such perverted views come to
be magistrates is a mystery, and their continuance
on the Bench is a national disgrace.
* * * *
A lot of frippery and make-believe that
hung round courts and judges is being got rid of
along with the other cobwebs. As for instance :
Melbourne, Sunday.—Eleven applications have already
been received for the vacancy on the County Court Bench
caused by the death of Judge Gaunt.
Nobody was ever supposed to apply for the job of
Judge, just as no barrister was ever supposed to
apply for the job of defending a prisoner or a
business swindle. The robes and the unnecessary
horsehair were supposed to just drop like the gen-
tle dew from heaven, except that the millinery
always dropped upon the man who deserved
it most; and the new Judge was sup-
posed to look up quite surprised, and to
say that, though he never expected it and
knew he wasn’t worthy, yet he would make a large
sacrifice of income and do his best to uphold the
noble traditions, etc. And now the public is find-
ing out that that was all flam, and that there is
really just about as much of a hustle for a judge-
ship as for an inspectorship of nuisances.
* * -v *
A strange epileptic case has happened in the
Victorian tote suburb. A Collingwood constable
found a victim dreaming on a doorstep, the victim
being smitten with a message from the Almighty
re the final football struggle between ’Roy and
’Wood. The prosaic policeman couldn’t make him
out, so of course hauled him up for insulting
behavior. The doctors examined the -case and
pronounced him an epileptic, dangerous to himself
and to the community, so the prosecuting officer
altered the charge to insanity. But the doctors
refused to say he was insane, and the authorities,
after discussion, discharged the football prophet
into a world which he is liable to violently disturb
with an axe at any moment. Formerly epileptics
were sent to the asylum, discharged as they were
not lunatics, then taken to gaol, discharged there
as they were not criminals, sent back to the
asylum, and scattered about generally like George
Reid’s political convictions. Now they are merely
let loose. Bent means to give 100 acres for an
epileptic colony, and it is expected £lO,OOO will be
subscribed to start it. The colony is certainly
wanted.
* * * *
’Tisn’t only the misprints, grammatical
mistakes, &e., of N.S.W. school reading-books
which invite sniffs. The Education Department
includes poetry in the readers, but in the Fifth
Reader one of Burns’ best-known effusions is
given, with the following verse carefully omitted :
Ye see yon birkie, ca’d a lord,
Wha struts and stares, and a’ that;
Though hundreds worship at his word,
He’s but a coof for a’ that.
For a’ that and a’ that,
His riband, star, and a’that,
The man of independent mind
He looks and laughs at a’ that!
With a possible K.C.M. Goose as Minister; a
C.M. Goose as Under-Secretary, and D.S. ’Orrors
as inspectors, the local young idea can’t be allowed
to absorb such sentiments.
• « * «
It looks as though insectarian Woolls
Rutledge intended that yarn about the man who
couldn’t get work in the N.S.W. Public Service as
a Protestant, but was rushed into a £lOOO-a-
-year billet as soon as he became a holy Roman, for
the ears of the yellow pup only; and it looks as
though he never would have said it if he thought
it was going out to the public, where it would be
ripped up and examined. Before he made the
speech he supplied the reporters with a summary
of it. Rutledge took care not to mention the
£lOOO-a-year taradiddle in the summary that he
reckoned he would have to stand by in print.
But, alas for whatever reputation the insectarian
had, the reporters were present on the look-out
for “lively bits,” and so the £lOOO-a-year billet
was interpolated in Rutledge’s own report of his
own speech. And then the trouble started.
AN HEREDITARY LIKENESS.
THE OLD MAID : “ These are all family portraits by old masters .”
THE YOUNG M AID: “ How interesting! This is, of course, you in fancy dress? ”
What may happen to a girl in Australia.
An Adelaide young woman of 21 went out “to
meet a young man ” (name given) on Sunday,
September 17, and did not come back. It took a
fortnight to trace her, and then it was found that
she had been buried under an assumed name in
West Terrace Cemetery a week before. The last
few days of her life were spent in the house of a
suburban “ medical practitioner,” and the
Attorney-General promptly gave permission for
the exhumation and examination of the body.
* * * *
Something in the way of a defence :
Adelaide doesn’t altogether mind being called Tortoise
Town ; it mentions in reply that the Tortoise beat the
Hare. Considering its reputation for slowness, the
number of things it has pioneered is almost amazing.
It introduced vote by ballot while other countries were
merely considering whether the time was ripe ; it
inve'nted the Torrens Title ; it also invented most of the
improvements in agricultural machinery that the Yan-
kees have pirated ; it was the first State to introduce a
progressive land-tax ; also, it was the first to pay its
Legislative Council, and make it possible for that body to
be something besides a chamber of rich landlords.
Further, it has had a public trustee for years ; and
it is the only State that has a State Bank doing
a general mortgage business. It was the first city
to have trams running ; then, true to its tortoise
reputation, it got hardly any forrarder with them, and it
lets the same old co.’s drag through the same old streets
the same old two-decker pie-and-coffee-stalis. And now
all the hullabaloo about the jubilee of N.S.W. railways re-
calls that, though S. Aus. wasn’t founded until 40 years
after N.S.W., it laid the first railway line—six miles of it,
between Goolwa and Pt. Elliott, at the mouth of the
Murray. It didn’t have any engines, but it hitched horses
to the first trains, starting in May, 1854, 15 months before
the Parramatta line was opened in N.S.W. But again,
like a good old tortoise, it has made hardly any progress ;
that pioneer line is in much the same condition as it was
originally, and the trains have to crawl over it, in dread
that one of the ancient rails will fly up and hit the engine in
the rear part. Also S. Australia was the first State to get
the whole of the railways under State control—in fact, it
is the only State in the Commonwealth that hasn’t a
syndicate railway on the premises. It may go slow, but
in most things S. Australia, anyhow, starts early.
The verdict of the Crow’s Nest; (Q.) jury
in the Ryan alleged murder case stunned momen-
tarily even Justice Real, who sat up straighter
than ever, tossed back the tails of his wig, reached
out his long arms, and gasped “ What! ” So the
foreman said again: “We find the prisoner
guilty, but recommend him to mercy on the
ground that no one saw the deed done.” The sour
Judge told them that was a hotch-potch sort
of a verdict, and ordered them back to
make a try to recover their senses if they
•ver had any. Half-an-hour afterwards they wan-
dered in with practically the same decision, ex-
cepting that the ground for mercy was shifted to
the excuse that “nobody saw him do it.” The
Judge accepted this, and turned the twelve loose
in the court with a characteristic snort. So he
pronounced the death sentence. Whereupon the
defending barrister put forward the interesting
Eoint for the Full Court that as the
ones found belonged to a part of the
body which could be lost without neces-
sarily causing death, the decision should be
quashed. Some years ago an Ipswich (Q.) jury
decided that a prisoner was guilty, but expressed
the opinion that there was no evidence to show
that the man was there when the crime was com-
mitted !
HE HAD SAVED MONEY.
SHE: “ You're as mean as you can be. You
won't give me a new bit, though you're only
paying half as much income-tax as you did
last year."
ON THE BEACH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It doesn’t make much difference what part of the
foreshore they get to so long as they get down on the
beach.”— Bailee, Vic. M.L.A., talking of a proposed
electric tramway to Port Melbourne.
Down on the beach
The sky and the sea and the silent sand
Are the same wherever you chance to land
Wherever the murmuring figures lie
The sermon’s the same that the wavelets preach ;
“ Oytherea came up from the foam, and why
Should her face not flush when you whisper and sigh
Down on the beach ? ”
Down on the beach
He must warily walk who would not disturb
Two bolting hearts that have lost the curb,
He must look well seaward who would not mark
Lips clinging, hands clinging, each to each ;
Love lies marooned from discretion’s ark
On the soft, soft sand in the friendly dark
Down on the beach.
Down on the beach,
Little they reck whether near or far
From the place where the band and the bunshops are,
For wherever they wander the white star swings,
And the waters whisper in age-old speech,
While over them Night spreads sheltering wings,
And Love lies promising endless things
Down on the beach.
VIC.
LAM.
THE SONG OF NON-SUCOESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
I sing the song of Non-success,
Of dreams that end in nothingness,
Outpourings of prophetic fire
That only rouse the reader’s ire.
I sing of triumphs never won,
Of battles that were ne’er begun;
I sing of Hope that turned to Care,
Of men and things the world could spare.
I sing of many a halcyon morn
That died in rain ere it was born ;
I sing of fame that ne’er was mine,
Of feasts without the food or wine.
I sing of all the things unborn ;
I sing of loss, defeat, and scorn.
Reviling Fortune’s cussedness —
I sing this song of Non-success.
OWEN PRITCHARD.


JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
king street,
The Meet Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
A Good Thing for the Cup.
A Smart, Cheerful, Well-fitting Suit, by
“R + C. HAGOR ” out of “ Best Material/'
sure of a place in the Great Event*
ĥ
Price, £4 4s.
ħ
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 King SU Sydney,
By way of giving the Victorian Police
Inquiry Commission a reason why the P?“°S
retiring age should be moved on from 60 to bb
years, police boss O’Callaghan cited the case of a
man who, retiring at 68, afterwards drew a £350
pension for 30 years. Reasoning on similar lines,
the retiring age should be reduced on the g rol ) n
that many policemen die before they
chance of drawing any pension at all. The pres,
commission is trying to find out, amongst ot
things, why Victoria’s criminal is becoming
chronically undetected, and one factor (according
to writer’s observation) is the Victorian police-
man’s fatness, general stiffness of the joints, an
an accumulation of years which makes tilings
seem not to matter so much as they did. com-
missioner O’Callaghan’s proposal to let him grow
fatter, stiffer, and accumulate more years will
accentuate the evil.
* * * *
The ex-Governmenfc House footman, who
was lately ordered by a Melbourne suburban
bench to maintain his irregular infant, seems to
have had more than one weak spot in him. Also ne
was painfully considerate, in spots. Lit her
because he failed to find the sureties ordered he
was a comparative stranger in Melbourne—or
because of the besmirching of his good name which
he said the verdict unjustly inflicted—though his
letters to the pantrymaid certainly justified the
court’s decision—he fired a gun through the roof
of his mouth and departed. Probably a good deal
of his action is accounted for by a long course of
butlery and footmanship—he had so got into the
habit of regulating his life according to orders, that
when he was suddenly called on to rely on his own
resources and act on his own initiative, he was
lost. Also the receipt of an anonymous picture
postcard, bearing a figure of a woman leading a
man with a string round his neck, and the words
“ got him,” may have had something to do with it.
But he was a considerate suicide, in some re-
spects. He left a note for his employer—Mrs.
Robert Reid —thanking her for past kindnesses
and incidentally mentioning that he “ would have
gone to a better world last night, only this being
your At-home day, I thought I would wait till to-
night.” Which was distinctly thoughtful of him ;
but his regard for his employer didn’t cause him
to go out into the backyard to remove hisbrams,
instead of doing it in the bedroom. Perhaps
he thought the Chinkie cook would attend to the
removal of the body, though here he miscalculated,
for the moment John saw it he cried out, ' No
savvee” and left the establishment. But a suicide
who had such a tender regard for the feelings of
his mistress’s visitors and so little for his own life is
• too unaccountable a circumstance to build a theory
on.
* * * *
Lionel Terry, who shot an aged and de-
crepit Chinaman in Wellington (M.L.)as a pro-
test against colored immigration, was an illogical
man, a rather inferior poet, and a great pedes-
trian. He was allegedly walking to somewhere
a long way off when thekink in his brain got him
down and cut short his tour, and as he is known
to have tramped from Auckland to Wellington,
he was at least something considerable in the
way of a bootist. It was at Auckland that 1 erry
burst into verse about the evils of Chinese immi-
gration, but his poetry was only moderate. One
verse ran
When our land shall be polluted by the outcasts of the
earth,
When corruption rageth rampant at its root;
When our leaders shun their duty for the halls of reckless
mirth,
And blended blood shall bear its shameful fruit.
The idea of corruption raging rampant at the root
is a flowery arabesque of speech which calls for a
lot of consideration. Having got this poem off his
mind, Terry proceeded to Wellington and shot his
Chinaman, and, most illogically, he selected a
very old Chinaman, whof would soon have died in
any case, instead of removing a young one. He
departed unnoticed ancT unsuspected, so the ob-
vious course was to obliterate a Chinaman each
night till the police dropped on him, and, as the
Wellington police don’t drop readily, he might
have removed a considerable number of China-
men. But, illogical to the last,* he gave himself
up with a copy of his volume in his hand. There
was a rush on his book that day, and it was sold
out before nightfall. Yet the unbusiness-like
man had made no effort to have 10,000 extra copies
in readiness.
• * * *
“ Squidge ” : He doctors and silk hats and
stethoscopes (B. 21/9/’05). The reason a doctor
doesn’t carry a stethoscope in his top hat is that
he doesn’t use that sort of stethoscope nowadays.
The old wooden, double-ended arrangement has
dropped out of doctordom. He now carries a little
rubber arrangement like the first hearing appa-
ratus on phonographs. There are two little ear-
pieces, and they join together in front to make the
flat piece that the sounding is done with. Doctors
therefore, find it most convenient to carry the in-
strument in the hip pocket. Still, it is doubtful
if that’s why they don’t wear silk hats. If, so,
probably when some new stethoscope that can be
carried in the vest pocket is introduced the doctors
will leave off wearing trousers. The fact is that
nobody worth shucks in Australia wears a silk hat
unless he has to, and nobody ever has to, except
when he’s getting married or attending somebody’s
funeral.
* * • *
Many Victorian J’s.P. think it is abso-
lutely necessary now to ask all boys that are
brought before them, no matter on what charge,
whether they have been reading the Argus bush-
ranging story. “ Did you read the ‘Thunderbolt’
tale ? ” sternly says the J.P. to a lad charged with
presenting a prize-packet pistol at Mr. Smith s
dog,land the terrified youth falls down dead and
says “ Yessir.”
* * * *
A use has been found for the long room in
Queensland’s gaudy Lands pile. It is to be
occupied as an Art Gallery, which will be a much
better purpose than the one originally intended—
a banquetting hall for borrow, boom, and burst
revellers. This will also settle the smouldering
row between the inept City Council and the
Government, as to whether the latter should pay
rent for the Town Hall garret where the pictures
are now housed.
A little Methodist tabernacle outside
Bendigo (Vic.) has been driving a bargain. Four
years ago the flock, whose name is mostly
Williams or Tresize and can smell gold at a great
distance, decided to offer up the surface to God
and the bowels to Mammon ; so it gave a 15 years’
lease to its worldly neighbor, the Virginia Cos.,
which was to work the ground on a 7 2 P er cent,
royalty basis. But the 1\ per cent, seems to have
stuck in the throat of the unrighteous company,
which knocked off work in that neighborhood ;
and then somebody else promptly fired in
an application to have that part of the
Virginia’s lease forfeited. After that the taber-
nacle, instead of being devoted to prayer meetings,
was used as a sort of branch Beehive —the main
Beehive being the place in Bendigo where share-
brokers buzz, and pretend to make honey. Ihe
flock pointed out to the man who wanted the
lease that it wouldn’t be any good to him unless
he got some surface rights, and the tabernacle
owned the only surface available; and then it
pointed out to the Virginia Cos. that it was a good
bit of ground, and that another co. had worked
right up to the boundary and got fat on the pro-
ceeds. The co. said that was so, and wouldn t
the tabernacle take a sum straight out ? Of
course the flock ought to have said No with
one voice. But the Williamses and the Tresizes
weren’t taking any risks ; they fixed it up with
the Virginia Cos. for cash down, and now God and
Mammon will divide the block, and the preacher
will toil in the vineyard, and his congregation will
toil in the stope under the pulpit.
* * * *
Thus “ Two Seas ” :
Re that pious palace at Hobart referred to by “ Stony ”
(}> 28/9/’OS). The Bibles, of which one is placed in every
room, were provided by a holy man who, writing; to the
local Mercury from China during the Boxer trouble,
described his narrow escape from death thus: Every
moment we were expecting to be with our Master in
Paradise, but, thank God, we were saved from such a
terrible fate.” . ...
I once saw the manager of the holy home bail _up a
bibulous boarder who was stumbling up the staircase
with a bottle sticking out of his pocket. Sa,id the shep-
herd in charge : “You ought to be ashamed of yourself,
taking strong der-rink into your room.’ The culprit
glared solemnly at him for a moment, evidently thinking
hard, and then retorted : “ You take your Bible out of
my room. You ought to be ashamed of yourself for using
up old Bibles as shaving paper.”
During the Boer war the palace was the official home
for returned warriors, and the sore struggle the manager
went through between piety and patriotism made his
hair retreat to the back of his skull. There was an extra
101 b. of the Word placed on the table of the sir.oking-
room, but the “soldiers” persisted in placing these
Scriptures on top of the fireless grate.
The waitressesat the pious establishment used to sleep
in wooden bunks, arranged, ship-fashion, in a r °°™
lio-hted only by a kylight. Each had something hard
for a pillow, and a sshare in an illuminated intimation
that “The wages of sin is death!” Their wages were
not death but hardly enough to be called life. One ot
them once received a present of 6d. for waiting upon a
directors’ banquet far into the night.
One of the witnesses who gave an account
of the Charters Towers dynamite explosion sup-
plied an eloquent picture :
I saw a huge, dense black pall rise into the sky and then
burst like a rocket. Immediately a rain of iron and bricks
commenced, and lasted for ten minutes.
If a brick is five minutes going up and five minutes
coming down, bow many miles up does tliat brick
K° ?
* * *
“ G.H.” : Walking along Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne, at 4 a.m., I saw a dilapidated wreck
of a man filling a small phial with water at a street
tap. Stopped and had a talk. Discovered that
the wreckage was a morphia-fiend, and that
he was busy diluting his poison for use. He
had education and intellect, and talked remark-
ably well, but his face was a seared
distorted map of the Land of Damnation. He
opened his shirt-front under the electric light,
in order to inject more poison, and his chest looked
exactly like the bottom of a sieve. Thousands of
fine cicatrices were tattooed on his skm, with
scarcely enough room for a pin-point between any
of them. He slipped the needle under the thickly-
scarred epidermis, and then pressed the syringe-
knob. The map of desolation turned upwards for a
minute or so, then he looked at .me and said he
felt better. Asked him how often he injected the
accursed stuff, and he said that he took it on an
average once every quarter of an hour. He slept
for a few minutes in a doorway now and then, but
the morphia-crave always woke him up again.
He had paid a doctor £l5O, in his better days to
cure him of the disease. The medico was killed
by accident, and it was discovered that he was
himself a morpha-maniac. The bald man selling
the infallible hair-restorer isn’t a circumstance to
that tragedy.
Brisbane, not content with “Empire Day,”
is going to make “Trafalgar Day ” another excuse
to leave off work and bray. The Bulletin
believes cordially in celebrating Trafalgar Day or
any other day—by laying in an Australian ship-
yard the keel of the first Australian battleship,
the money for same being provided out of taxa-
tion. It believes, moreover, in celebrating any
number of successive days by working like Sheol
at the building, with Australian-made steel, of
that ship and many succeeding ships. In such a
cause this paper wouldn’t mind if it celebrated the
birthday of J udas Iscariot. But it seems that the
proposed Brisbane celebration is to consist merely
of loafing, flag-flapping, eating, drinking, the per-
petration of wooden-headed speeches on school
kids who are too small to resist, and a special
number of the school magazine. And these things
are dust and ashes.
• • * •
A debt case heard recently in the Ararat
(Yic.) police court threw a pathetic sidelight on
how some people exist in Bent’s State, where a
few miserable human beings are spread over many
splendid acres, and many splendid human beings
are crowded on a few miserable acres. The Mount
William goldfield is now practically only one in
name. The few people remaining there are
reduced to almost the last chance. Recently a
miner’s wife died at childbirth. The case arose
out of an alleged arrangement between a local
storekeeper and a mate of the deceased woman’s
husband, to supply goods “ until he cleaned up
his washdirt.” The man and his wife (she was
barely 21 years of age) were starving, hence the
mate’s action. The storekeeper said he supplied
brandy to keep her alive. At her extremity he
sent his buggy to Ararat (27 miles distant) for a
medical man, who arrived too late. After the
woman’s death a fund was raised to bury the
body. A concert was one means employed; and
a concert which included comic songs, viewed as a
means to raise funds to bury a girl-wife who died
in childbirth, and who was starving before her
death, has elements of the grotesque. The miners
who are stranded at Mount William might go on
the land if there was land to go on, but the big
landlords have it, and will only part (while they
are alive) at impossible prices. And somehow
they seem to forget that they can’t take the land
to hell with them when they die.
* * * *
Anew temperance alliance started under
the auspices of the publicans is one more addition
to the faddy organisations of Maoriland. lhe
Rev. W. Thompson, who has lately been lec-
turing against prohibition at a good salary,
is the prime mover. Mr. Publichouse is join-
ing with great enthusiasm to demonstrate
that he really believes in people drinking
less and being able to take off their
boots before going to bed. The new show
states in its prospectus that it recognises the right
of a man to abstain if he chooses, and to drink in
moderation if he so desires. It opposes prohibi-
tion as an invasion of the rights of the individual,
and because it produces a lower type of moral
character in the community, and results in greater
evils than those it seeks to remove. Further, the
Alliance seeks to raise and improve the moral tone
of the trade, oppose the granting of licenses to
men of bad character, and to see that the pub
beries are conducted without profanity, or stoush,
or too much drinking, or dice-box, or private-
bar lady, or anything of that sort. In short, the
Alliance is going to make Bung a decent citizen,
who. will go to church three times on Sunday.
Someone suggests that it should be called the
Teetotal Drunks, by way of a short, handy name.
SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE.
MRS. BARK-GROUND : “ She must have been very
fond of her husband —pore creatcher!"
MR. BAKK-G ROUND: “ Oh, no. She is only sorry
because she hasn't got anybody to nag at now."
The announcements of funerals are
becoming mere fashionable advertisements for the
jolly undertaker. Something like this will happen
shortly : , ,
A lame funeral took place at the cemetery yesterday.
Six very handsome mourning coaches drawn by jet blac
steeds followed a superb hearse. The hearse was pro-
fusely draped in lovely black brocade trappings (half-
column draperese language). A (half-
wreaths decorated the grave, including those from (ha
column of personal ad.) The coffin was of polished cedar
and (quarter-column of explanation re etc )-
ThP whole arrangement was carried out by Messrs, ivioiu
and Co., whose foreman (the affable Mr Dust) had charge
nf the cortea-e assisted by Messrs. Croak and Raven.
The flowers were from the well-known florists Eveigreeu
and Co. The name of the deceased was Smith.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged, lhe establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Noitheote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
PYGMALION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
Annabel is very fair,
Flaxen is her smoothed hair ;
White her skin as lily bell;
Gold as stone was Annabel.
Annabel was stony cold,
Though I loved her and was bold.
Burned a furnace in my heart,
But no warmth could it impart.
Till that night when Spring was new,
When she sudden mortal grew,
When the life within her shone,
And I was Pygmalion !
S.S.
SPRING POEM
FOR THE
BULLEIN
Or*e. Ev£Nit-»C "WHILST K6XUNWC IN MV EASY CHfvR. HEPiNiNC
TH c UfSCK OF TRO£ KCLI CION IKNO THE. OEMVTH OF COMMON SENSE
V SOLEMN VISAC.ED LAOY WHO WAS SURELY ON THE SHADY
P 1D e op FORTY» ENTER Eo PROUDLY A«D TO OROSH ME D«D —
•'I sent A POEM here S'R!’’ SAIO THE LADY, CROWING FIERCER
LnO THE SUBJECT WHICH J'O CHOTEN. you'll RCMp-IDtE
SiR . WAS SPRING
Q UT ALTHOUGH J'VE SCANNED VOOR JOURNAL WITH A
° PATIENCE THAT'S ETERNAL
tye discovered of that POEM rota SOLITARY thing
4 //
conMfcNtfi.
S HE WAS. MUSCUUAW AND WIRY AND HER HAIR WAS WILD AND FIE.RY
NO T KNE.W TO PACIFY HER X r-WST LIE MOST BlTTERWY
SO T Said with ihwaRO CURSES THAT BEFOREvv£ COT HER VERSES
V*e‘0 RECEIVED JUST FORTY “FIVE oh SPRIHC OF WISH VIS'O PRIHTED THREE
ano T AOOEO-Yvfve oecioto they had setter Be divided
ptfAONC THE YEARS THAT FOLLOW, THREE TO EACH StfCtEDlHC 5PWHC
SO YOUR WORK,lH PUASEO TO HCHTIOH ,WILL RECEIVE Ovfc -BEST ATTEHTIOH
TH THE VEAR of lqfto VYHEN THE BIRDS BESift T9- S»«S *—?-
BILLY.


ĥ
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULACE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS. —Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives — i.e., EVERYTHING.
83 Our CATALOGUE is pours for the asking. TEH
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstein and Kopped, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris,
Branches—so 4 Little Collins st., Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The States’ Treasury reports for the quarter are
in patches rather more satisfactory than such reports
have been lately, though they are not so satisfactory as
they look from the outside. Even the most satisfactory-
looking of them, if they were issued by ordinary trading
concerns, would be received with scorn. It would be
pointed out that nothing had been written off for depre-
ciation of plant, &c., in which their borrowed money and
their own capital is invested ; also it would be shown that
vast sums, derived from the sale of assets, had been
wrongly included as revenue, and the auditors (if any
auditors could be got to sign such statements) would be
told that they didn’t know the first principles of their
business. But, apart from these things, the figures are,
on the whole, a trifle better ;
State Revenues for September.
Sept., 1904. Sept., 1905.
N.S. Wales .. £892,507 £919,253 Inc. £26,746
Victoria .. 542,582 552,867 Inc. 10,285
Queensland .. 502,978 484,256 Dec. 18,722
Westralia 318,013 318,699 Inc. 686
Tasmania 56,335 52,144 Dec. 4,191
The whole of the N.S.W. improvement is in the railway
receipts. Excluding that line there is a slump of £32,255
in revenue. And, since against the railway revenue has
to be set an increase in the interest and other charges,
the position is not really as satisfactory as the figures
look. In what Premier Carruthers calls revenue proper
there is a net decline of £26,248 for the month and £79,358
for the quarter, and that is mostly dead loss, for the ex-
penditure under these headings remains about the same
whether the total receipts are £1,321,899 (as they were in
the first quarter of this year) or £1,401,257, as they were
in the first quarter of last year. The same remarks apply
to a great extent to Victoria and Queensland. The
quarter’s railway figures for these three States show up
in this way :
1904. 1905.
N.S. Wales .. £990,990 £1,085,353 Inc. £94,363
Victoria .. 760,129 787,150 Inc. 27,021
Queensland .. 332,454 381,877 Inc. 49,423-
When the complete revenue returns for the quarter are
compared with these figures, it will be seen that N.S.W.
is suffering a heavy shrinkage apart from railways and
tramways, while Victoria and Queensland are gaining
little outside them. In S. Australia, for which detailed
figures are not available, it is also announced that the
railway revenue has increased by about £lO,OOO ; so there
too a considerable shrinkage has occurred in other direc-
tions. And, as before remarked, the railway increase is
accompanied (in the case of N.S.W. especially) by a con-
siderable increase in interest and other expenditure ;
wherefore the net result is only satisfactory in a very
moderate way. Complete revenue figures follow
State Revenues for Year so far.
July-Sept. Julv-Sept.
1904. i. 905.
N.S. Wales .. £2,543,077 £2,556,477 Inc. £13,400
Victoria .. 1,684,503 1,728,520 Inc. 44,017
Queensland .. 981,308 1,032,378 Inc. 51,070
S. Australia .. 580,603 583,118 Inc. 2,515
Westralia .. .833,402 786,824 Dec. 46,578
Tasmania .. 187,974 186,504 Dec. 1,470
The most ghastly feature is the continued decline in the
Westralian revenue. Certainly, there has been a corres-
ponding decline in expenditure ; but, so far as the past
month is concerned, that appears to have been wholly due
to the political crisis, works, &c., being postponed till
things simmered down. Now that they have simmered
down new-Premier Rason goes to the'country after-a
defeat in the House, with some chance of coming -
back with a majority; and Rason is the awful
financier who says he isn’t a bit disturbed by the prospect
of a £300,000 deficit, and scorns such things* as.
Daglish’s proposed extra taxation to bring itr£6o,o'do 0r-
£70,000 a year, and the retrenchment of probhbly the
most over-manned and badly-officered public service in
Australia. Tasmania still suffers from reduced Common-
wealth refunds, and has only itself to blame, because
it won’t return Protectionists to the Australian Parlia-
ment when it has the chance.
Only three States issue expenditure returns
promptly :
Expenditure for Year so far.
July-Sept., July-Sept.,
1904. 1905.
N.S. Wales £3,030,523 £3,078,079 Inc. £47,556
Queensland 497,086 536,598 Inc. 39,512
Westralia 856,233 ,803,746 . • Dec. 52,487
This, then, so far as these States are concerned, is the net
position :
N.S. Wales is £34,156 worse off than it was this time
last year. At that time its revenue was £487,446 short
of its expenditure ; now the deficit is £521,692. It is,
however, alleged that there is a new item of expenditure
—£87,500 for sinking fund, under Treasurer Carruthers’
Act of last year—which fully accounts for this. Treasurer
Carruthers always talks about his sinking fund as though
it were a brand-new piece of Reform honesty on his part.
As a matter of fact, the annual repayments provided
for by law when Carruthers took office amounted to
£394,413; the Auditor-General vouches for this (p. 154
of his report for the past year). The Reformer’s Act pro-
vides for payments amounting in all to £350,000 a year ;
so that, instead of instituting or even increasing' the
N.S.W. sinking funds, he actually reduced the amount
which had hitherto been provided by £44,413.
Queensland is £11,558 better off than it was this
time last year, and no less than £270,637 better off than
at Sept. 30, 1903, when Philp was in office, and Morgan
and Kidston hadn’t arrived to shut down on more borrow-
ing for unproductive works, more dead debt, and more
drift. To pay the current half-year’s interest bill (about
£773,520) this has been available at various dates
Sept. 30, 1903 .. .. £225,143-
„ 1904 .. .. 484,222
„ 1905 .. .. 495,780
A fine recovery on the position in Philp’s day. But the
margin is still almost too fine to notice ; and, unless Kid-
ston gets more revenue from other sources, a much
smaller thing than the poor season threatened in various
parts of Queensland will send him a deficit.
Westralia has spent £22,831 more than it had received
at this date last year ; this year, so far, it has spent
£16,922 more than it received. And the reason why it
hasn’t spent even more than it has done was mentioned
just now.
N.S.W. loan expenditure in the quarter was
£439,592, which is £188,112 of an improvement on the
mighty bad record of 1904. Queensland’s expenditure
was £62,842, as against £60,124 last year. This is money
which was borrowed long- ago and lias since been locked
up in the Q.N. Bank. The fact is mentioned in mitiga-
tion of an offence, which, however, remains an offence all
the same.
* * * *
Down to June 30, of this year, S. Australia had
got rid of its public lands to the extent of £9,496,998, and
had actually received and turned into revenue all but
£3lOO of the purchase money. In addition to having sold
these assets and collared the proceeds, it has borrowed
£28,727,895, or at the rate of £7B Is. Id. per head of popu-
lation. Of this £28,727,895 of borrowed money the rail-
ways have absorbed only £13,110,909 ; and the railways
have returned 3£ per cent, and upwards in only four years
out of the past ten. The whole position, so far as S. Aus-
tralian debt and the return upon it is concerned, is about
as follows :
Debt to Return for
June, 1905. 1904-5.
Railways £13,110,909 £3l9s. Od. p.c
Post and Telegraphs .. 1,001,756 Transferred.
Waterworks 4,853,564 1 12 5 p.c.
Sewerage .. .. .. 656,422 4 3 7 „
Harbor works, &c 1,810,995 10 9 ~
Purchase of Thrown-up Pas-
toral-lease improvements 1,066,500 1 0 1,,
Land repurchase .. .. 505,527 3 0 0,,
Vermin-proof fencing .. 186,951 3 6 0,,
Roads and bridges “ aid to
revenue, ” buildings, drain-
age, &c 5,535,271 nil
Return on Total Debt .. .. £2 7 6 p.c.
The interest payable on the public debt is £1,079,649 ;
last year, when the railways gave their best return for the
decade, thanks to the volume of the erratic Barrier traffic,
the amount available from works and other undertakings
was £684,218. The other £395,431 had to be made good
out of taxation. Summarised, then, this is the position
that S. Australia ought to be ashamed of: —
(1) Instead of sufficiently taxing itself, it has used
£9,493,897 derived from the sale of assets as revenue.
(2) After saving itself taxation to that extent, to save
itself still further it borrowed for so many things which
ought to have been paid for out of revenue, that now the
interest which has to be made good out of taxation
amounts to £395,431 per annum in even a particularly good
year.
The present generation would have every right to make
highly disrespectful remarks about previous generations
which shuffled out of their obligations, and sold their
patrimony, and passed the bill on to their children for
the roads they wore out themselves and the culverts that
collapsed in their own time—only unfoitunately the
present generation is doing exactly the same tilings.
Ten years ago sales of public lands had almost ceased ;
last year, under the mournful Butler, they amounted to
£33,550, and the “agreements to purchase” ran into
another £128,095, Also the interest on the debt charged
to S. Australia proper has sprung from £913,829 in 1903 to
£950,311 in 1905. This generation can’t curse to any
great extent, because it is practising the same mean
dodges as its predecessors ; but it isn’t pleasant to think
whac other generations will say when the dodges
are exhausted—when there isn’t any more saleable
land to sell, and no Cohen will entertain another pro-
posal. If somebody’s graves are not danced upon, future
generations will be a remarkably forgiving lot.
• * * •
Until the Great Northern line gets through into
the Northern Territory, and opens up the well-watered
country there, S. Australia will have a frightful load to
carry. The droughty nowhere-in-particular that the line
stops at now is called Oodnadatta ; and the total freight
forwarded from that terminus in the last financial year
(to June 30, 1905) was 86 tons; the freight received was
942 tons. Algebucltina, another station of just about as
much importance as most of them on the line, forwarded
5 tons and received 30 ; Blackfellow’s Creek, 70 and 59.
Farina, further south, and reckoned quite a depdt, handled
556 tons outwards and 1081 tons inwards. Hergott
Springs, another depot, from which there are artesian-
watered tracks tow-ards southern Queensland and north-
western N.S. Wales, forwarded 203 tons and received 1753
tons. The S. Australian Railway Department doesn’t set
out the actual loss or gain on any of its lines : if it did the
figures for this Far Northern line would certainly be ap-
palling. Construction from Port Augusta northward cost
about £2,750,000 ; besides the interest, working expenses
are extremely heavy, for every ton of coal used, even as
far up as Oodnadatta, has to be hauled over nearly 1000
miles of line. It is only the Broken Hill traffic which
enables the S. Aus. Department to pull through without
a staggering deficit. This latter traffic, running into
about a third of the whole tonnage on the entire S. Aus.
railways, is one of the most easily and cheaply handled in
Australia. The gross tonnage on all S. Australian lines in
the past year was 1,681,003 tons ; of that, 481,068 tons ran
out through Cockburn (on the border, alongside Broken
Hill), and 165,644 tons ran in. This was practically all
through-loading—full trains sent from one terminus to
another. In addition to that, there is the hig'hly profit-
able passenger traffic on the same line. Granted that, for
a mining town, Broken Hill looks unusually substantial,
still it remain’s a mining town, and its life is limited ;
the same ore can’t be taken out twice, and a vast
quantity of it has been taken out already. The Barrier
, line is a wasting security ; the time will come when it
will only be worth old iron, and the department ought to
provide a sinking fund to wipe out its whole cost. But
the revenue has to make good such a vast deficit on the
Great Northern line that, so far from writing something
off that or any other line, the Commissioner complains
that there isn’t enough available to write anything off
worn-out rolling stock. In other words, S. Aus-
tralia borrowed money to buy rolling stock, and
now it is worn out ; yet in spite of the immen-
sely profitable but highly uncertain Barrier traffic,
it can’t spare enough to replace these assets out of
revenue. The collapse of the Barrier traffic at any
time would make S, Australia reel, even if it didn’t have
any unfinished Great Northern railway on its back ; with
that to maintain, and with interest to pay on the
£3,000,000 which it has cost to build and equip, the thing
would be crushing. Yet nothing is more certain than
that it is only a matter of time when the Broken Hill mines
will be exhausted and the Barrier traffic must collapse.
* * * ii-
Second round in -the rumpus over the Blue Tier
(Tas.) water rights has ended in favor of the Mt. Lyell
crowd, who, through Luke Williams, made a grab at
another valuable bit of the small island. Williams’ cam-
paigning skill and the influence of his backing turned the
rumpus into a political crisis, and Stewart, Treasurer and
Minister for Mines, has been obliged to resign. The Par-
liamentary Select Committee reported :
“1. That the Minister of Mines was personally in-
terested in the Blue Tier mining district.
“2. That, although personally interested, he retained
to himself the right to determine between conflicting
interests.
“3. That he entertained an offer for the purchase of
his mineral sections by a person who had made applica-
tion to himself as Minister for Mines for water privileges.
“4. That he refused an application for the dam site
because he desired to favor a person with whom he had
had a longer and closer connection than with the appli-
cant.”
Committee finds, therefore, that Stewart’s conduct was
“ improper ” ; Stewart owns up that it was “ indiscreet.”
But the Minister’s resignation puts matters very little
“ forrarder.” The position is that there are two grabbing
and competing crowds —Mt. Lyell and the Duff-Maddocks
section. Tasmania wants money spent on water-conser-
vation, but is suspicious of the Lyell crowd, and the other
one doesn’t rush up with the money. The department
got on to solid ground when it decided that “ to grant
any one person or co. a monopoly of the water would not
be to the interests of the district or the industry ” ; and
that is ex-Minister Stewart’s defence, only, unfortu-
nately, he put himself in the position of not being able to
resist the monopoly without having bricks thrown at
himself. It doesn’t look at all as though he were a rogue ;
in fact, if he had been a rogue, all the leases the big co.
wanted would probably have been granted(after the parties
understood one another). He seems to have been just
the dull person that his record as Treasurer suggested.
But the worst disclosures made by the Blue Tier
select committee relate to the manner in which Tasmania
transacts its public business. It seems that people drop
in upon a Minister and they mutually mix public and
private business, and afterwards it isn’t possible to sort
out the two sets of transactions. Other people drop in
and between remarking that it’s a fine day and that the
onion market isn’t what it was, verbally apply to the
Minister for a lease, and if they are refused no record is kept.
“ There was a tradition in the office that No. 1 dam site
was reserved ” ; but nobody knew who was the tradition’s
father, or if it ever had a mother ; according to all appear-
ances, it just grew. “ The Secretary for Mines believes that
it was reserved by a verbal notification of the Minister.
It was not reserved by proclamation in the Gazette.
There had been no proper intimation to the public.
And the State which does its business in this way—m not
quite so good a way as a small parish vestry reckons it
can’t maintain its dignity on anything less than two
Houses ol Parliament.
* * * *
When Premier Carruthers burst up the scheme
for insuring N.S.W. State properties and collared the
accumulated premiums, which apparently have gone into
what he calls “ revenue proper,” he might at least have
established one State agency for attending to this matter
of insurance. At present it looks as though every depart-
ment more or less attends to its own fire and marine
insurance. Some of them farm the business out to agents,
who get their stiff commission, which means that the State
is supporting unnecessarj" middlemen who probably make
more in commissions than an Under-Secretary gets in
salary. Others, which do the business direct, probably
pay commission in another and even more objectionable
form than that. If Carruthers isn’t progressive enough
to run a Fire Insurance Department, to insure the State’s
own properties, he might at least save the State a con-
siderable amount by appointing an officer to deal with
insurance just as, long since, it was found necessary to
appoint an officer to deal with Government advertisements.
Kaiapoi Woollen Manufacturing Co. (M.L.):
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1898.. £21,008
July,
1899.. £10,158 7 per cent. = £5833 £2835 £1490 22,498
1900.. 12,900 7 „ „ „ 7000 3400 2500 24,998
1901.. 9,752 7 „ ~ ~ 7000 3400 24,350
1902.. 13,828 7 „ ~ ~ 7000 3400 3428 27,778
1903.. 13,426 7 7000 3400 3026 30,804
1904.. 11,595 7 „ „ ~ 7000 3400 1195 31,999
1905.. 8,582 7 „ ~ ~ 7000 2000 31,581
Another proof that the M.L. tariff hasn’t kept pace with
the improvement in the conditions of M.L. labor. The 7
per cent, dividend has been maintained, but only by
cutting down the allowance for wear and tear of
machinery, &c., and encroaching on the reserves. The
directors in their report state : “ Steps have been taken
to reduce output and so diminish present heavy stocks.”
“Stock manufactured—wool and material” stands now
at £142,452, an increase of £20,357 during the year. The
foreigner, who isn’t subject to Arbitration Courts, &c.,
has been getting the trade ; goods have accumulated in
the hands of the co. ; and now “ steps have been taken to
reduce output.” The M.L. workman will have either to
be sacked or to work short time until he does one of two
things—throws the Arbitration and similar laws over-
board (which he won’t do if he has half the sense he is
credited with) or shuts out the foreigner by a higher
duty. In 1896 the total value of foreign woollen piece
goods imported to Maoriland was £235,932 ; for 1904 the
total was £416,340, an increase of 77 p.c. in the foreign
trade in eight years. At July 31st, 1901, the Kaiapoi Co.’s
liabilities to the public, including bank overdraft, totalled
£82,010 ; they have, in four years, increased to £110,594.
The co. lias, like the others of its kind, tried to stem the
tide of foreign imports by getting in improved ma-
chinery ; but the rush of the profits downwards proves
that it hasn’t succeeded. And now, with huge stocks
accumulated, the inevitable has happened, sooner even
than might have been anticipated—“ steps have been
taken to reduce output.” Is Seddon going to let the
woollen industry go, or the Arbitration Act, &c., go, or
the insufficient tariff go ? He can’t keep the lot.
» * » *
The Wellington Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (M.L.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900 .. £17,291
July,
1901 ..£8,791 8 p.c. =£4281 £2500 £2OlO 19,301
1902 .. 10,773 8 ~ „ 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premium on New Shares .. .. 1413 23,850
1903 .. 9,065 8 ~ „ 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904 .. 9,130 8,, „ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
£1413 Depreciation Written Off Reserves .. 25,255
1905 .. 3,950 6 ~ „ 4800 587 ~ 23,818
So we bump against the same old trouble. Moderately
high Protection set industries on their feet in Maoriland ;
then Arbitration Courts and other desirable things of the
same sort were introduced, wages were increased, child
and apprentice labor restricted, working hours reduced.
Meantime the 20 per cent, tariff on woollen piece goods
remained just where it was. While the Maoriland manu-
facturer could work on more or less even terms with the
foreign manufacturer, he was able to hold his own fairly
well. But when he. was compelled to pay good
wages and observe fair conditions, and his foreign
competitor was under no such obligations, the 20 per
cent, became gradually less and less effective. In the
table at the head of this the profit for 1901 was made in
10 months ; note that, and then note that in 1903-4 fresh
capital was got in, and it will be seen that, from 1900
onwards, the return on capital invested has been shrink-
ing, with scarcely a break in' the steady movement. In
the' past year the profit, £3950, did not allow of a fair
amount being written off for depreciation; to pay
even 6 per cent, the highly questionable plan was
adopted of providing for depreciation out of reserves ;
and even then there wasn’t enough net profit to pay
the dividend. If a modest 2J p.c. had been written off
plant, &c. —and up till quite recently the co. used to
write off much more than that—the net profit would only
show a return of £2 2s. 7d. p.c. on the shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves) in the business. Even on capital
alone the true earnings, after allowing this 2£ p.c. for
wear and tear, were only £2 16s. p.c. A reduction in the
price of materials might improve matters ; but there is
no sign of that—on the contrary, wool has risen lately*
instead of falling. Meantime the usual thing is
happening. In the unfair struggle to keep level
with the foreigner, favored in the matter of
labor and wages, the co. has been • getting in
more modern plant—something that will take the
place of the work-people it can no longer afford to
employ—and it has had to borrow to do it. In 1902
the overdraft was £11,003 ; now, though £16,930 of new
capital has since been raised,, the overdraft amounts
to £29,973. For the shareholders, unless the tariff is
raised, just as the cost of local production has been
raised, the outlook is just about as gloomy as it can be ;
and it is hardly less gloomy for the work-people.
<9 fr * *
Market shows itself very uneasy about Great
Fingall (W.A.), and quotations see-saw a half-sovereign
with every fresh rumor. The position as to actual results
is as follows :
Tons Treated. Value. Cost. Profit.
s. d. s. d. £
Jan. .. 14,600 80 0 27 10 38,200
Feb. .. 14,000 82 9 24 7 40,800
March .. 16,100 72 2 22 5 39,800
April .. 15,600 74 3 22 3 41,300
May .. 16,800 69 0 22 3 39,500
June .. 16,800 69 0 22 3 39,300
July .. 17,500 66 3 22 5 38,400
August.. 17,900 64 9 22 0 38,400
This makes profit for first eight months of year £315,700.
Say that profit for remaining four months averages
£38,000, total for year would be £467,700. Against this
two 7s. 6d. and two Bs. divs. have been declared, tot-
ting up £387,500. J. Bull’s income-tax and ’Groper
div.-tax would be 10 per cent., or £38,750; directors’ fees,
£2000; 1 per cent, for staff, £3875; London exes,
£2000; total, £434,125. This would leave a sur-
plus of £33,575 available towards further dividends.
Property, buildings, and plant have been written down
to £18,659, so that depreciation is a negligible quantity.
Same items in Horseshoe stand at £1,601,765, in Perse-
verance at £1,378,736, in Ivanhoe at £1,000,000, and in
Boulder at £326,204. As Algernon Moreing said, at last
annual meeting, profits can be divided up to the hilt.
The main weakness of the position, as shown by above
table, is the continual decline in grade of ore; profits
have only been maintained by increasing output and
reducing costs, and there is a limit to that. Ore in sight
is sufficient to keep mill going for three years, and pay
divs. of 935. per share. Long before then it should be
known whether the bottom is out of the mine or not. So
far, the two bottom levels continue very unsatisfactory.
On June 30 extraction values of reserves were given
as 705., and this was practically confirmed by expert
Rolker. The returns do not support this. Any further
decline in grade will not only affect profits, but make in-
vestors suspicious of estimates.
* * * *
Several W.A. mines which publish monthly
returns of revenue and expenditure must fast be getting
into Queer-street. During August W.F. Main Reefs
dropped £3500; Cosmopolitan, £2400; Golden Ridge, £600;
Vivien, £550; Hannan’s Star, £500; Lancefield, £700;
Craiggiemore, £75; while Waihi and Mt. Morgans came
out about square. The profit-earners were —Oroya-Brown
Hill, £39,800 ; Great Fingall, £38,400 ; Ivanhoe, £23,800 ;
Horseshoe, £22,500; Great Boulder, £20,700; Kalgurli,
£14,100 ; Sons of Gwalia, £10,200; Associated Northern,
£lO,lOO ; Perseverance, £9400 ; Associated, £9lOO ; South
Kalgurli, £6000; L.V. Consols, £3500; Ida H., £1800;
North Feather, £1700; Golden Pole, £3700; Hainault,
£2OOO ; Bellevue, £l3OO ; Mertons, £9OO ; Red Hill, £750 ;
Cumberland, £BOO ; and East Murchison United, £2OO.
Ivanhoe and Horseshoe are the only co.’s that include
dividend-tax, income-tax and head office exes, in their
costs, so profits of others are to that extent misleading.
* • • •
That reconstruction of Hannan’s Star (W.A.)
and proposal to double the plant to treat about 4500 tons
monthly, seems an absurd scheme, judging from past
results/ On January 1 co.’s ore reserves were valued at
30s. a ton for 31,000 tons, but this has been wholly falsified
by published returns. April panned out 235. lOd. ; May,
20s. 9d. ; June, 255. 6d. ; July, 255. ; and August, 235. 3d.
As total costs, including London exes, are about 28s. 9d.,
the results may be. gauged. At end of last year ore
reserves were nearly 3000 tons less than at end of 1903, so
that developments did not keep pace with treatment ;and
yet directors propose to double the plant. Where the
50,000 tons of ore, which the plant will treat yearly, are
to come from is not stated. The 4s. assessment on the
212,200 shares issued, if fully met, would produce £42,440,
so directors would have a nice little lot to play
with even after paying for additional plant. As shares
jumped from 4s. to 255. in May last year, at time of
Deep Levels ramp, they are probably worth supporting on
the off-chance of another boomlet, worked up to give
holders an opportunity to pass on the baby. During year
co. acquired New Chaffers Extended, formerly part of
Golden Link, for fully paid shares. Directors of that
co. must b* - feeling very pleasant over the 4s. assessment.
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is still prospecting at
1000 ft., where country is much more settled than in upper
levels. Crosscut west, to try and locate continuation of
the Hainault lodes, has not met with success, and it now
looks as if these lodes do not extend so far. In the
eastern crosscut a continuation of the Kalgurli lode was
picked up, and a drive is now following this. This same
lode carried a narrow telluride vein at 700 ft., from which
a small parcel yielded some s£oz. per ton. Mine has been
such a disappointment hitherto that it is folly to pin
one’s faith to any development. Rich patches, if not
frequent, are not altogether rare ; but they are merely
patches, and soon peter out.
* * * *
Latest results from Cumberland, Norseman
(W.A.), are, on the whole, very poor, and prospects are
anything but good. At No. 4 level lode ranges from Ito
4dwt., which is of little use to anybody. Manager
Fernald tackled a pretty tough contract when he took on
the job, and has probably lived to regret it. Owing to
very poor rainfall this year, all outside centres are
complaining, Norseman among the number ; and as the
rainy season is pretty well past outlook is serious.
* * * *
Finances of Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.),
have been badly managed. Divs. of £45,000 have been
paid since April, while profits, exclusive of div. duty and
office expenses, have been £43,400 only. Div. duty has
totted up £2250, and sundries £lOOO, leaving £40,150 ; so
that an unearned £4850 has been paid away. To wipe
out this deficiency, October div. is to be passed, instead
of being increased to Is., as everyone was led to believe.
To strengthen co.’s position half-yearly meeting decided
to build a reserve fund, and that developments shall be
kept further ahead of mill. Quarterly divs. are to be
paid, but, to give shareholders a Christmas box, Is. 6d.,
or two months’ divs., will be paid on Dec. 11. Some 2000
tons of residues, estimated to contain 9000 z., will be
treated monthly, but it is not expected that more
than two-thirds of the gold will be extracted. Accumu-
lated residues are estimated to yield a net profit of
£20,000; but, as these will be treated with current
residues, profits from them will be spread over many
months. Government is charging co. 7s. per lOOOgals.
for salt water, equivalent to about 2s, 3d. per ton
treated. Original holders have been getting in
out of the wet, as register shows 103 holders
with 120,300 shares in Kalgoorlie, 157 with 50,000 in
Adelaide, and 74 with 29,700 in London. Thousands of
these shares have been sold under cover, so register
doesn’t show real state of affairs. As to mine, North
shoot is dipping so flat that it is to be followed on the
underlay from 400 ft. Unless south shoot, located on sur-
face beyond cross-course, proves remunerative, further
sinking of vertical shaft will be abandoned. Mine looks
good enough if properly worked, but shares will be
subject to wild fluctuations, as controllers don’t live in
Kalgoorlie for the good of their health.
* * * *
Northern Blocks Syndicate (W.A.) will have its
10-head mill on the Leviathan, Southern Cross, jigging by
middle of November, and it is expected to treat monthly
1200 tons of 15dwt. ore at a profit of 255. to 30s. a ton.
A good deal of ore has been opened up since the mine
was taken on option. Under manager Andrew Leahy
mine is being very cheaply worked —there are no silver-
tails employed. Even though there are 700,000 shares
in the concern, round about one shilling there is money
in them.
• * * *
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.),
although making a profit of £l7OO to £lBOO a month,
is not of much account. Reserves of ore are small, and,
unless something new is dug tip soon, there will be a
sudden collapse. The reef at 600 ft, so far as tested, is
valueless, while the 400 ft. is practically exhausted, and
the 500 ft. can’t last much longer. The three upper levels
were depleted before the mill resumed running last
September. Mine is equipped with a 20-head mill, but
only part of the plant was running till lately, when a
supreme effort was made to try to market the shares.
The line of reef on which co. is working is patchy and
broken, and can’t be depended upon, as has been proved-
in the W. F. Main Reefs, Golden Cement, and White
Feather Reward.
* * * #
Vivien, Lawler’s (W.A.), which, according to
Algernon Moreing, was to be one of the coming great
mines, has falsified his prophecies. When mill started
the beginning of last year returns were as high as 12000 z.,
latterly they have dwindled to 7000 z., and shown little or
no profit. Last month, owing to a strike, only 4530 z.
were won, and there was a loss of £560. Average grade
of ore treated has also dwindled from 555. 6d. per ton in
March to 375. in August. Ore reserves on July 1 were
estimated at 73,500 tons, worth 435. 6d. Of course all this
cannot be extracted, and as costs run over 405., there is
practically no margin. A mine of its grade is worthless
to shareholders when worked on such a small scale.
B.M. and Co. are, after all, only mortal.
* * * *
Bay ley’s, Coolgardie, being unable to conjure
any more gold out of Bull-Cohen’s pocket, has been forced
to sell off some of its surplus plant to raise the wind.
As the amount realised is a mere bagatelle, poor old
Bayley’s is likely soon to be wiped off the slate, unless
tributors can be tempted to give it a lingering death.
♦ * * »
Londonderry, Coolgardie, which has not been
heard of for a long time, is to be amalgamated with
Field’s Reward, Yalgoo. Both have been mismanaged,
and neither has had a fair chance. Those who know
Field’s Reward reckon it will be a mine some day, when
the present London crowd is dethroned, or abandons the
property. Same people control Murchison Associated
and East Fingall, and are famous for their gaudy reports.
They are at present issuing glowing reports on East
Fingall. Reef in shaft from 413 ft. to 430 ft. is reported as
being 3ft. wide, worth 3oz. It will be interesting to see
how this pans out.
* * * *
Prices of leading Barrier stocks on September
30 of this year and last, so that people may see what
they’re paying now compared with what they thought
the same goods were worth 12 months ago :
1904. 1905.
s. d. s. d.
Block 14 (pref. A).. Unsaleable 22 6 Rise ?
~ (pref. B) .. ~ 22 0 ~ ?
„ (ord.) .. „ 21 9 „ ?
British (new) .. 911 26 0 ~ 162'2 p.c.
S. Blocks (paid) .. 5 0 12 6 ~ 150‘0 „
„ (con.) .. 1 9 4 2J „ 140-5 „
Junction North .. 5 11 13 6 ~ 128'2 „
British (old) .. 12 6 27 0 „ 116-0 „
South (con.) .. 29 6 60 0 ~ 103'4 ~
North .. .. 22 9 43 9 „ 92-3 „
South (paid) .. 37 6 66 0 ~ 76'0 ~
Sulphide (ord.) .. 6 6 11 0 „ 69-2 ~
Block 10 .. .. 45 0 67 6 „ 50'0 „
Sulphide (pref.) .. 18 0 23 6 ~ 30-5,,
B.H. Prop 40 6 50 6 „ 247 „
Junction .. .. 6 5 5 8 Fall 117 ~
Why? Twelve months ago Broken Hill had begun to
make zinc concentrates, and it certainly was expected
that there was more money in them than the co.’s have
recently realised by outright sales of the dumps. Block
14 was" handicapped by mismanagement; and the corn-


parison, as it affects that co.’s stocks, hardly counts.
For the rest, nothing has happened which hasn’t affected
the B.H. Prop, and the Sulphide Corporation to just
about the same extent as the others. Was the public a
shockingly bad judge 12 months ago, or is it a shockingly
bad judge to-dav? It must be one of the two, or there
wouldn’t be this remarkable difference in the market
jumps. , * , ,
B.H. Block 10 is as hungry for machinery now-
adays as Block 14 used to be ; it has just called for
another helping. Against that, however, rather better
mill returns are reported, though they are still very poor ;
but that isn’t any more the fault of the mill than of the
ore. Block 10 has to go deeper for its spoil than any other
mine on the field, and, though Broken Hill sulphides,
after passing the section immediately underlying the
oxidised ores, don’t as a rule get poorer, they nearly
always get harder to mill. In the last week in September
the plant had 460 tons of lead to work on and it got 302
tons, or 65 "8 per cent. ; of silver 44,4240 z., and it got out
16,1840 z., or 36"4 per cent. The old mill in its final run,
ending early this year, extracted 61"69 per cent, of
the lead and 33"25 per cent, of the silver ; the new
mill, in its first few weeks (to the end pf the co.’s half-
year at March 31st), extracted 65 T 8 per cent of the lead
and 37"29 per cent, of the silver. For the whole half-year
recovery was 63"32 per cent, of the lead and 35"26 per
cent, of the silver. Present extraction is thus 2"5 per
cent, better for lead, and IT per cent, for silver than last
half-year’s average. Most recent mill-additions (slime
plant) were responsible. On present output and at present
prices the improvement on last half-year’s average is
worth £l5O per week. Last half-year gave a profit of
6s. lid. per ton of ore, equal to £llOO per week on present
output; improvement in value of concentrates would
bring this to £1250 per week. Costs ought to have shrunk
a little this half-year, though they will still show up high ;
and metal markets are stronger, so that the estimated
£l5OO a week present net profit ought to be close to it.
This is at the rate of 7s. 9d. per share per half-year.
* * * *
Pinnacles, the Queensland Smelting Co.’s mine
outside Broken Hill, which hand-dresses the best of its
ore and ships it to Aldershot (Q.) to level things up
there, has now 4000 tons of good concentrating stuff at
surface ; and a mill is to go up to deal with it. This will
be about the 13th new or reconstructed mill that has had
a go at an ore which used to be reckoned extra-refractory,
but which the Aldershot people don’t appear to find so.
It was on this stuff that the first magnetic separator was
tried in Australia 12 or 13 years ago, by then-manager
(Idling. But others have reaped where Odling only
ploughed.
* * * *
Lake View Consols’ deal, by which, on Bewick -
Moreing’s advice, it gets half the B.H. South Blocks, and
puts £50,000 in to provide mill and other plant and further
develop the mine, ought to make some despised shows
at that end of the field worth while—for a gamble, of
course. Chief of them are New White Leads and Rising
Sun, both relatives of the Lazarus who was laid in the
tomb but didn’t stay there.
* * * *
For its half of the B.H. South Blocks, Lake
View Consols 00. paid £70,000. This left £20,000 for the
exes and profits of the Baillieus, of Melbourne, and Lionel
Robinson, of London, who held the option.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North proposes to raise
the very necessary wind by selling the Baillieu-Lionel
Robinson-Bewick-Moreing syndicate, 26,000 shares at
12s. 6d., with the right to another 25,000 in six months.
This would involve reconstruction ; proposal is to re-form
in 180,000 shares, instead of present 130,000. The co. can
certainly never make a decent return with existing plant,
and financially it is about at the end of its tether. New
shares will all be issued as paid to £l.
* » * *
Arbitration Court award under which Broken
Hill mines have been working for a couple of years
expires this month. It is almost certain to be extended,
with very few amendments, as the result of conferences
between managers’ and miners’ associations. Latter have
an arbitration committee for this and similar purposes ;
the mines are being represented by general manager
Delprat, of the B.H. Prop., who. gets along better with
the men than any previous B.H. Prop, manager. Yet
when he took charge no end of trouble was predicted,
because he had been used to handling the cheapest sorts
of mine-labor—Spanish, Portuguese, and colored. Like
Kayser, so long manager of Mt. Bischoff, Delprat is a
Dutchman.
* * * *
North Broken Hill’s profit for July was £4875 ;
August, £5368 ; September, £3980. Four weeks in each
case. Figures are exclusive of depreciation, &c. Total
for quarter, £14,223. Reduced profit for September was
due to poorer and more refractory ore. So far as can be
judged, this is not a permanent tailing-off ; co. has simply
got into two or three poor patches simultaneously.
* * * *
Coppabella Prop. (N.S.W.) is getting ready to
send a first 50 tons of hand-picked ore to smelters—
broken from the tunnel and No. 2 shaft; some very good
galena has been got in the latter. The yarn circulated to
account for the slump in these shares a while ago was
that there had been no end of over-selling, and that bears
were at work ; but there still seems plenty of scrip avail-
able in Melbourne. Yet shares went down still lower, to a
shade over £4, last week. Returns from the 50-ton
parcel will probably stiffen the market a bit; but, after
all, this parcel will prove nothing. Everybody knows
there is ore in the mine, and that, for g-alena, it is good ;
but what it will cost to get out and market is another
matter. Off the Coppabella Prop, best development has
been at Mt. Gifford (Irvine’s), four miles away ; same class
of ore is being got there. At Coppabella Blocks, No. 1
and No. 2, former owned by a Sydney and latter by a
Melbourne syndicate, the prospecting shaft is still going
down, and no crosscutting has been done ; after sinking
as far as water will let them they will feel out for the lode,
if there is one. Till then nothing further can be said,
except that the surface show is quite good enough to
warrant spending as much as this wiil cost.
m m * m
Barrier, Wyalong (N.S.W.), a consistent gold
producer since the present owners got it, is likely to be
taken over shortly by a reputedly strong co., prepared to
erect machinery and follow reef down from the 300 ft.
level. North of the Barrier a party is working the
Welcome Stranger, a one-time bonanza ; sinking- is hard,
and the party isn’t too cheerful. In this locality three
shafts are going down in the hard country when one
would suffice. The Golden Fleece owners have purchased
the Forget-Me-Not, adjoining on the south ; and here is
another instance of indiscriminate shaft-sinking, with
poppet heads and machinery lying idle. In the event of
the old Mousetrap being amalgamated with the Fleece,
the co. would do well to continue the shaft on the Mouse-
trap and make it the centre of operations. From the
western reef of the Fleece 100 tons have just yielded
2050 z.
» * * *
“ W.0.L.” : General belief which credits Beyers
and Holterman with being the discoverers of Hill End
(N.S.W.) is wrong ; general belief’s gullibility on the sub-
ject simply shows how people who are phenomenally
fortunate are likely to get credit for other people’s doings
as well as their own. First reef on Hawkins Hill was dis-
covered by Bill Adams, not the man who won Waterloo,
but one of a party of miners working at Red Hill, Tam-
baroora. He noticed a piece of auriferous quartz while
leading a horse up Hawkins Hill, took his party, including
the three Jeffrees, Tallantyre, and others, to the spot, and
the first ton of rubble taken from the surface yielded
8520 z. A second crushing of 6 tons gave I3oooz. The Hill
was then rushed, but little was found, and it was practically
deserted again by all but Adams, Jeffree and party, who
afterwards obtained another patch which produced
another rush. This was the period when the several
parallel veins, of small thickness but of mag-nificent
quality, with one of the richest portions of which the
names of Beyers and Holterman were so favorably associ-
ated, were discovered, and out of them came the famous
Holterman nugget in ’72 —five years after Bill Adams’ find.
To-day, when Holterman is dead, Beyers in W.A., and the
Hill shorn of its ancient glory, one of the Jeffrees, who
was in Bill Adams’ party, still sticks and works in the
old claim in hopes of some day striking another of those
patches which gave the “ Patchy Vein” its name.
* * * *
Gladstone Tin Development (Tas.) has had so
much fatman luck that its backers cut up rough over the
rebuff they got at the hands of Stock Exchange birds in
Melbourne last week. There was no Weary-Willie waiting
about the scuttle-out by one or two holders. Nor was
there any of the sweet spirit of charity displayed by those
who, when floating down on the tide, fully laden with
specking profits, had to pass the bulls overladen with
costly scrip. Gladstones have never been a popular stock
with the specking crowd, and more than ever now they
turn up their noses in dour contempt at him whom they
dub Mr. Sanguine Grayson. The calm face of Grayson’s co-
promoter, Dalrymple, never blanched over the tumble, for
he has been through a dozen such deals, and never loses
his nerve, no matter if the wind be adverse or favorable.
That the bear gun was properly loaded to bring down the
bulls was shown by the course of events. The very clever
crowd started at £37, and when unloaded whispered
words of sweet mis-content about the dredge being
stuck in the clay and the inefficiency of the plant.
But they did not reap many profits till some of the
holders began to flit, no one could tell why. The bull
prop smashed again and again, and it was only when
pr : -es fell to £2O that the news came out thatdredge-
i aster Ryan had not only resigned, but had written
aggressively on the whole dredging project which the
Gladstone and Ringarooma co.s’ father. If anyone had
the ghost of an idea that Ryan intended to quit, of course
it was like shelling peas to make money on a bear deal.
The Gladstone show isn’t either advanced or
damned by the bear raid. Ryan’s assertion that all the
ground is clay and boggy, including the Ringarooma flats,
is sweeping. If he knew the 14 miles of leases were like
this, the question may be put: Did he report to the directors
to warn them ? He has been on the field for months, and,
if writer mistakes not, pegged out a lease or two. The
directors should let the shareholders know if they got any
adverse expression of opinion from their dredge-master
before his letter of resignation. Then it would be
acceptable to more than one if Ryan would disclose
the evidence on which he based his conclusions. Did he
put down bores in the co.’s ground or sink shafts which
contradicted those sunk by Grayson, or does he know of
anyone who did? Other plants are being ordered to work
river flats, and if he can furnish facts to stop fruitless ex-
penditure, he, as a mining engineer, would do a public
service if he would speak out further. Apart altogether
from .what Ryan may or may not do, it is useless to dis-
guise the fact that he has aroused wide alarm. The best
course for the co. to pursue under the circumstances
would be to have a dozen or two check bores put down by
independent persons. If these bear out Grayson’s bores
as to absence of clay and boulders, and as to the contents
of the ground, then shareholders can sit sight. If not,
they will know where they are.
» * • *
The original “East Coast Tasmanian” givessome
further opinions on the tin boom thereabouts :—“ ‘ East
Coast Tasmanian No. 2 ’ (B. 31/8/’O5) evidently holds a
brief for the Weldbrook. Following facts will determine
who is at sea He says old Weldbrook proper was worked
right into centre of township, and hundreds of tons of
tin were won from it. No. He needs to put Waverley in
place of Weldbrook. The old Waverley was a natural
catchment, barred back from the river by a granite bar. Tin
cut out long before Weld River was reached, so it is highly
improbable that Weldbrook co. has that lead. Also, he
says Weldbrook ground is too deep for other than
modern methods. But a tunnel was put in below the
Weldbrook, years ago, to work bed of river by gravitation.
Much tin was won this way ; in fact, all payable wash was
worked. There are high-level races, commanding all
stanniferous ground round Weldborough, so ‘ East Coast
Tasmanian No. 2 ’ should have up-ended his statement;
there is water but no tin. The old Weldbrook Co. worked
a hydraulic elevator from above the races and had enough
pressure to bottom comfortably. There is no ground that
would pay even a very small co. round Weldborough. As
for Sarah Ann claim, it has not paid wages (vide press
report of first meeting of shareholders). The prospectus
of Weldbrook seems to me misleading. There are no pay-
able tributary leads (all are worked out), and no other
minerals beside tin—except titanic iron and black-jack,
which tend to reduce assay of tin. The lead (what is left
of it) is not the old Waverley lead. For reasoris above
mentioned wash was not hand-lifted, but worked by hy-
draulic elevator and breaking-down column.
“The Gladstone Development 00. has had
several breakdowns. Most practical mining men believe
that bucket dredges are unsuitable and will not bear out
estimated capacity—too many rocks and logs in river.
Machinery has had to be altered so as not to bump timber
and big rocks so hard. Consequence, reduction of pace
or capacity. Also there is much doubt about ground
ahead being payable after a couple of clean-ups. Co.
started on what will prove the best patch, or thereabouts,
and I would not be surprised if it got 20 tons per month
for first three or four months.
“ South Mt. Cameron’s last clean up was cer-
tainly profitable ; but it is shifting > lot of ground, and
will soon cut out payable dirt. Last clean up was re-
ported in some quarters as for nine weeks’ run. Wrong.
It was 16 weeks’ run. Which makes a lot of difference.
Same thing with many of the boom shows. They work
three shifts and report one ; also a few report about half
the actual working time.
“The Wyniford T.M. Co. is another recent
float. First two runs may have given half enough to pay ex-
penses, but hardly any more, although it was considered
‘ highlypayable.’ Little chance of this claim ever re-
turning a cent in divs.”
* * * #
“Prospector”: Tasmania Copper Co.’s mine,
Mt. Read (Tas.), is turning out better than par (8., 14/9/’O5)
suggests. Since work started in July, 1000 tons a month
or thereabouts have been sent out, and the returns from
the Zeehan smelter are higher than General Manager
Henrik expectations. No difficulty is met with in treat-
ing it. Same class of ore mined 100 yards or so away on
the Primrose mine has, through the push of a tributor,
been giving handsome returns to Primrose directors for
two years. Same class of ore from Hercules mine, five
miles away so'uth, was paying divs. till the directors tried
to cut wages '.last February, saying the mine couldn’t
pay —and proved it by at once declaring another dividend.
Tasmanian copper-zinc can be easily classed so as to assay
37 per cent, to 44 per cent., with a percentage of silver,
lead and gold. It is the lead sulphide, altogether apart
from the zinc, that is now being mined profitably ; and it
is considerably below £6 ss. in value. Quantity of ore in
sight, though probably much below the originally re-
ported 1,700,000 tons, is a long way above the last
estimate of 170,000 ; half-way between would be near the
mark. I hold no brief for the co., but know the lode
since it was struck in the early 90’s by prospector Tom
M'Donald, and will back it against Blinman, the co.’s
S. Australian mine, given a smelter alongside and brains
to run it.
» * * »
Yulcan, the big little N.Q. tin mine, is run in a
patriarchal way. John Moffatt, of Irvinebank, owns half
the shares, and practically directs operations ; also, he is
the whole, or thereabouts, of the Irvinebank 00., which
does the crushing. A visiting mining man, seeing the
stone being carted by drays from the mine on the hill to
the mill at the water, a few hundred yards away, asked
why they didn’t put up an aerial tramway. “ Ah, yes,”
said the N.Q. sticker, “ they all ask that. But you see
all these men and drays and horses—they are all good
servants ; no, it would disturb so many interests. We’d
better leave things as they are.” And John Moffatt, still,
at 74, a tremendous worker, gets his reward. When he
began at Irvinebank, his first weir was a failure ; where-
upon the whole community turned to and put the thing
to rights. That’s the local yarn, at any rate.
* * * *
If the Mungana (N.Q.) wasn’t tied hand and
foot to the hopeless Chillagoe, it would pull through all
right; but Ohillagoe’s failure will drag it down. The
mines, however, will yet make money for somebody. The
Girofla isn’t opening up anything special, but the Lady
Jane is developing moderate-sized bodies of good ore, and
seems likely to turn out the best property in the district.
Chillagoe Co. itself is going in for drilling in the hope of
striking something that "will pay it better than handling
other people’s ore ; and with T. J. Greenway out of the
general management, the Etheridge railway proposal, in
which he had no faith, is being pushed harder on the
Government. The 2£ p.c. State guarantee is still the
basis of negotiations. Morgan and Kidston don’t like the
scheme, but they know the line is needed. They are
firm against borrowing to build it, and to raise enough
extra taxation to build it out of revenue is difficult at
present, though not impossible. It is doubtful whether
the Leg. Council will even agree to Kidston’s small Land-
tax Bill; if it doesn’t, Kidston, who is very mr-'h in
earnest about that matter, will do something emphatic.
* * • •
“M.C.”: Mungana mines have now about
15,000 tons of ore Atj^rass; but they cannot stand the
stoping of some Hundreds of tons of ore per week
indefinitely from the tw<s shallow levels, 100 ft. and 200 ft.,
so management has decided to sink deeper. There seems
to be a fair show of both, lead and copper ore at the 200 ft.
level, but there are also limestone intrusions, and nothing
settled or defined about the ore body. Mungana is run
nominally as a concern separate from Chillagoe Railway
and Mines, but all the ore is treated at Chillagoe co.’s
works, so it is merely a'question as to which is to have the
biggest cut at the profits—the smelter or the mine.
Chillagoe Co. holds 100,000 shares in the Mungana, or
one-fifth interest; so no doubt charges can be fixed quite
amicably. Chillagoe railway returns show improvement
on last vear ; there is some extra freight, no doubt, from
the O.K.
* « » *
Trouble between Alan Gibb, manager of O.K.
copper mine (N.Q.), and a majority of the directors has
ended in Gibb’s retirement. Directors are not a particu-
lar! 3' happy family ; in some things Wilcock pulls one
way, the local men (Newell, Torpy, and Munro) another.
A new manager is wanted at £BOO ; and he won’t get any
2 per cent, on profits.
* * * *
Some heavy spec.-sellers of Smith’s Creek, the
N.Q. tin-show of dubious reputation, have been anxiously
looking round for scrip. Only the other month it was
about lid. a bushel, and there isn’t proof that it is
honestly worth much more now.
* * * *
Captain Warren’s report on Smith’s Creek (Q.)
is a humorous effort. “ I might say that it might easily
be seen that the co. owns a very valuable property ... I
should say that a sum of from £BOOO to £lO,OOO will be
ample for all purposes, and I have much pleasure in
recommending that this sum should be made available,
believing, as I do, that there is a fair prospect of the mine
repaying it all.” So if the shareholders put up £SOOO or
£lO,OOO more, there is “a fair prospect” of this “ very
valuable property ” paying it all back. What a “ very
valuable property ” it must be !
• * * *
Croydon (Q.) doesn’t know, even now, after
three months, how joyful to be oyer Bennion’s strike, in
the Lady Mary shaft. Pointed out previously (B. 3/8/’O5)
that it would be a better risk to increase the pumping
power, instead of sinking a second shaft in the hope of
dodging the water. So far, the No. 2 shaft has not been
drowned out; but as it is quite likely to be any moment,
pump was kept going on No. 1, and water was
got well in hand. Then another shot was fired,
and the water promptly rose 30ft. over the pump —a
nasty disappointment, because it looked as though
the water was beaten. And Croydon was never
more anxious about anything than the result of these
workings. If the old reefs can be picked up beyond the
intrusive granite, there won’t be a brewery brisk enough
in N.Q. to supply the demand.
Which recalls that, when Adelaide thought it
had missed the chance of making sundry millions by
getting into Chillagoe early, some of it decided to do the
next best thing and supply the place with beer. A co.
was formed, and an up-to-date brewery put up at
Mareeba. But the beer had only just begun to flow when
the gilt began to rub off Chillagoe, and, in the smash that
followed, the brewery shut up, and the co. wished it had
never been born. The works lay idle for three or
four years, till, the other day, John Newell and a southern
speculator bought the whole rig-out for a few hundreds,
and N.Q. beer will soon again be on tap.
* * • *
John Candlish, the boss man of Etheridge gold-
field (N.Q.), has just visited Charters Towers, Ravens-
wood, and other northern fields, on the lookout for points
in ore-treatment. Etheridge ore is a little more refractory
than the bulk of Towers gold stone, and is about on a par
with that of Ravenswood, of which the smelter gets most.
Hence the anxiety of Chillagoe for rail communication
with Etheridge. As far as present developments enable
one to judge, Etheridge is a concentrating and smelting
proposition. Harvey Patterson, chairman of Chillagoe
Co., is quite cock-sure about it, but he will know more
after his co. has had a few years’ experience of the field.
It looks certain that Chillagoe will not make a deal of
profit out of smelting Etheridge gold concentrates. But
they will help to keep the furnaces going, and that will
be something gained.
* * « *
“ Clean up: 2230 z. from 40 fathoms.” This is
like a bit of the real old Madam Berry wash ; but it comes
from Pitfield (Vic.), not from Creswick, where dwts. now
rule instead of oz. It was a coincidence that the old
chairman of the Glenfine South was Joe English* who
piloted the Madam Berry through its halcyon days.' The
old Glenfine South board, under Alcock, had a try to
reach the alluvial from the 210 ft. level, but the water
beat them, and they had not the grit or the cheek to ask
shareholders to pay calls on a gamble, to drive out afresh
a long west level and so get under the wash and mine it
properly. But McCrorey and Francis (Goodall’s repre-
sentative) gave an infusion of fresh blood, raked up old
records, and pushed out west. It was a big risk, and they
have won a bigger stake than they ever estimated. Yet
there hasn’t been a ripple outside a little circle over the
clean-up, for the public has no reason to think well of
Pitfield.
* * * *
. Chairman Sewell, of Star of the East, Ballarat,
is clever. When 12,000 South Star, shares were planted
with the Star of the East, the reason for the co. taking
them was said to be that it was merely another way of
paying for the pumping done by the South. But
with a small share register and no gold worth the
name in the stone, the Star of the East board
finds the 12,000 shares, on which calls are being
made, a drag. To get rid of them a new issue of 12,000
Star shares is proposed, each share carrying a South.
Now this arrangement not only gets the co. rid of its
incubus, but it gives extra shares to call on. A decidedly
neat idea ; and if the Star mine only had gold to buttress
the proposal, instead of “ payable prospects ” and “ soft-
sawdery ” speeches, things might go swimmingly. But •
as folks are sick of the Sebastopol Plateau, it isn’t likely
that they will flock to burden themselves with two lots
of call-paying stocks, when one is a poor risk at the best.
• » * *
Duke United, Maryborough (Vic.), is the Bull-
owned show which Stoneham bought as a sort of catch-
penny to help his Victorian Deep Leads and Junction
Deep Leads shows along. But the lead cut away east
across country and became impoverished, the bottom was
irregular and hard, and so the wash didn’t yield profits.
Pinder, sent out from “ home,” had the luck to cut a run
of reef wash west of the shaft, missed by Body, and it
saved him till the end of his time, when he quitted Aus-
tralia with a farewell curse at deep leads. Pinder’s weak-
ness was that he would poke about instead of cutting
ahead straight for the deep bores and then working back.
Pitt, his sub-manager, then got charge and has had a hard
time trying to make ends meet. In fact, he has had
to draw £l5OO out of the cash reserves. Local directors
see the need to go north, and so are diverting a inain-
reef drive in that direction. As it is, they have a No. 7
branch drive out, which they think will prove that the
turn of the lead from east to north has taken place. But
it is a long way from No. 7 to the shaft, and the manager
cannot afford to take risks, so he goes ahead with great
caution ; and, for the present, the turn of the lead is as
doubtful as Reid’s political career. Well, good luck to
Pitt, who is a son of hard toil and a decent fellow.
» * « *
A queer discovery, with a significant bearing
upon an old, old story, was made at the Union gold mine,
Diamond Creek (Vic.), a few days ago. Present co. has
been hopefully unwatering the original Union Co.’s shaft,
idle for over 20 years, and the water is now 25ft. below
the fourth level, where the first plunger workings were
fixed. In removing these to put in new ones the manager
arrived at the reason why the pumps of yore would not
work, so that the mine came to be flooded, and eventually
abandoned. The wind bore was stopped up. A photo-
graph of this interesting relic shows the holes plugged
with tallow and pieces of wood. The alleged explanation
of the plugging is a libellous story, which has yet to be
substantiated by developments in the lowest depths of
the long-time-flooded Union.
• # * •
A tenacious miner named Trewartha is raising
a cry in Victorian Courts for a new trial in his case
against the Confidence Extended Co. (Bendigo). The old
Cornishman (he has turned 61, and has been grubbing
about down below since he was 16) tried to wheel a truck
into a cage that had departed—fortunately in a down-
ward direction. Consequently Trewartha fell 20ft. on top
of the cage instead of falling 700 ft. to the bottom of the
shaft. Even the 20ft. drop did the ancient no good. He
says there were no lights at the plat, and no gates to stop
possible runaways, and that some of the jurors who heard
his first case were influenced by reason of having an interest
in the mine. The evidence is interesting, and suggests that
the cage wanders up and down like a lost soul, without
any definite system, and is liable to be anywhere at any
time.
* • * •
A partly-Adelaide, partly-English co. was
formed a year or so back to try the Mac Donnell Rartges
(far north S.A.) for mica. Co. for a start made large pur-
chases of goats and seven horses ; then put on about four
men and fossicked around old dumps, getting about"
12cwt. of 2 x 1 mica and a few cwt. of larger sizes, the whole
worth about Is. 3d. per lb. =£los. The co. had £l5OO to
play with, worked 12 months (including three months
occupied in getting the goats), and had the usual clearing
sale of tools and stock the other day. Result, perhaps
£lOO. It has now secured exemption, and is busy
sparring for wind, and preparing to make another attack
on Hingland’s wealth. Though the mine is 50 miles from
Arltunga, and frightfully remote, people who really
understood the business and the country ought to make
a fair thing of it.
* * * *
Prospects of the moderately-new opal field at
Lightning Ridge, Angledool (N.S.W.), are very dis-
couraging ; and only 16 men are left looking for the gem.
A very little first-class stuff has been won, but the bulk
ranges from second-rate to very inferior. The deposits
are small and uneven, and as there are no buyers on the
field, what is marketable has to be sent to White Cliffs.
To the shortness of opal an equal shortness of water has
now been added—in fact, there isn’t much of anything
except rabbits and disappointments.
* * * *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collms and King-streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a twenty horse-power gas-engine
belted to a “ Ganz ” twelve kilowatts dynamo, a “Ganz”
switch-board containing all the measuring and controlling
instruments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The
generating machinery runs continually during the day
time at its full capacity and highest efficiency, the surplus
current being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies
all necessary electricity required during the night; and it
forms also a substantial reserve in case of accidents.
Compared with the previous method of working, a saving
of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant, the
contractors for which were the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh-streets,
South Melbourne, as sole Australian agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.*
• * * •
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* « * *
The Policy Holder (Manchester) July 27,1904,
writes with regard to the last annual report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited: —“ There
are a number of satisfactory features about the report
now presented, for the premium income and funds show
a satisfactory increase, whilst the claims are smaller and
the rate of interest realised has been the same as in
1902.”*
* • * *
A matter of great importance to the mining
community has just been decided by the Supreme Court
of Victoria in an action by the Wilfley Qre Concentrator
Syndicate Limited against N. Guthridge Limited, and it
has held that the well-known Wilfley Patent is valid and
has been infringed by N. Guthridge .Limited by the sale
and manufacture of tables which they call the Card Con-
centrator. The action took 28 days in hearing, numerous
eminent scientific and practical experts being called for
both sides ; the Court granted a certificate of the validity
of the Wilfley Patent and ordered N. Guthridge Limited
to pay damages and costs, and further granted an injunc-
tion restraining N, Guthridge Limited from infringing the
Wilfley Patent. The Wilfley Table is protected by Letters
Patent throughout Australasia and the proprietors wish
to notify all vendors and users that all infringements will
be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.*
'** » *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
i * * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange; for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
*-* * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
A-12 inch Suction Dredging Plant is being built
for the Weldbrook Tin Mines Co. The plant will be
similar in design to those erected at the Pioneer and
Briseis Extended Tin Mines (Tasmania). The engines will
be of the vertical compound condensing type of about
300h.p. fitted with an Edwards type of air pump and
large surface condenser. The boilers will be two in
number, of the marine type, and will work at a pressure
of 1501 b. to the square inch. The nozzle pump will be
centrifugal and directly connected to a vertical compound
steam engine. The barge will be 45ft. square. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, which
is constructing this dredge, has been particularly success-
ful in building these large type of suction dredges and
owing to their reputation have just concluded a contract
for the erection of a plant in the Federated Malay States
which promises to be the fore-runner of many more of the
like.*
* * * *
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The. Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Svdney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne’.*
* * * ■*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
One of the last things that happened to stiff,
starchy old Edward Langton was his defeat as director of
the Mutual Stores, Ltd. Langton had ruled the roost
there for many years, and though often attacked was
never dislodged ; but dwindling divs. at last touched
shareholders where they felt it most, and the emphatic
old chairman was thrown out with great energy in favor
of Chas. Atkins, chairman of the Melb. Chamber of
Commerce. Two or three days afterwards the papers
reported Langton’s death.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH,
h
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
Aboriginalities.
This from “Roma” :
There is a woman down this way. She is a young
married woman with two children, one a boy of 3£ and
the other aged 11 months. It does not matter what sort
of weather it is (there is only one kind in South Gipps-
land), she is out on horseback—riding man-like—with the
two kids. The eldest sits in front and hangs on somehow
by a strap fixed round the mother’s waist. The infant is
encircled by one arm —the other arm is used to hold the
reins and keep in position innumerable packages—bag of
pollard, American broom, etc. The Other night I heard a
commotion outside about 8.30 p.m. On inquiry I found
it was Mrs. Farmer, who had lost herself in the rain,
scrub, and darkness on her way to a ball 14 miles away,
and she had to climb mountains, cross gullies and deep
watercourses, and wade through a morass to get there,
hut she meant to do it. Both infants were present and
howling. She arrived at her destination at 10.15 p.m.,
and stuck the two worn-out kids on some old coats in the
corner of a room with about 25 other unfortunates. Then
Mrs. Farmer danced on the frivolous bush toe till about
4 a.m.
Next morning I met her in the township with the
two infants and several milkeans. She was driving the
previous night’s horse in a dray. When the lady in
question had only one infant such a contingency as open-
ing gates was unheard of ; she cleared them all like a
bird. lam trying to figure out what she will do if twins
arrive.
AN AUSTRALIAN TEAM.
This outfit belongs to a selector in the Moree district (N.S.W.). It is a willing and energetic
team, and pulls 40wt. with ease.
Photo, by Cavanagh, Moree.
“J.T.G.”: Another wombat infliction.
Though of mostly nocturnal habits, this beastie
may,, in secluded places, be sometimes found
abroad in daylight. It takes some digging to.
dislodge him when underground, as his burrow,
generally on a steep hillside, is often twelve or
fifteen feet deep and a chain in length. A dog I
used to own had a mania for wombats. Recently
he met a couple of them away from home, and
pursued one, which promptly made tracks for his
burrow. Dog followed enthusiastically, and close
behind came the other piggy in a cordial spirit.
All three disappeared into the subterranean
gloom, and the subsequent silence was something
terrific. Am still wondering what happened to
Toby, as his return has not been recorded.
Wombats are severe on rabbit-proof fences. They
tear the wire-netting as though it were hessian ;
and they don’t come back by the same road as
bunny does, but make another hole, ..and loud
lamentations in cockydom are the result* Skins
are of little value ; as for eating wombat—ugh !
* * * *
The noble Maori, it seems, takes to
billiards with deadly earnestness. Complained
by the Inspector of Native Schools in a report to
Parliament that “the people in places spend
their whole time at playing cards or billiards,
another factor which not only militates con-
siderably against the success of several of our
schools, but which also, in my opinion, is one of
the greatest curses that has ever come upon the
Maori. The children are often kept up all night
billiard-marking, and are utterly unfit to come to
school or to work when they do come. The
Maoris are pauperised by gambling. I ascribe a
considerable amount of the poverty amongst the
people to the pernicious influence of these billiard-
tables, which are to be seen on the gumfields, in
the kianga, and even on the very roadside.”
• • • *
“Alec Zander”: Travelling with cattle
from Queensland to N.S.W. once, I saw a sight
that very few cattle-men have witnessed—every
beast of 1200 lying down at the same time on the
camp. The man on watch woke me to see it. He
said he had been 43 years among the hornies, and
had never had such an experience before, and
didn’t expect to again.
The Jack-of-all-trades mostly meets with
derision, but in small bush communities the
factotum is a product of circumstances, and a
highly-distinguished and indispensable individual.
He is consulted on most things—from corns to
cornet-playing. He repairs clocks and watches,
grinds scissors, sets razors, makes verandah chairs,
and creates fancy flower pots out of kerosene tins.
He builds your coffin, digs your grave, and plants
you therein. He frames pictures, writes the scale
of fees on the pound notice board, mends the
bucket, the waterpot and lamp, and cuts hair.
He can patch gum-boots. He tells you how many
bricks you require for your oven or chimney,
makes tanks, and shows you how the dampers
work in your new stove. He plaits hide into
halters, bridles and whips, and inlays and loads
stockwhip handles with lead. In addition, he ex-
tracts teeth, makes tennis nets, strings racquets,
and puts new sights on rifles. In his spare time
he takes building.contracts. And in the evening
he is the M.C. at the local “dawnce.”
* * * *
“Orthos” thinks the J.P. an excrescence r-
I travelled five miles in the bush recently to get a J.P.
to witness my signature. Turning the documents every
way, he said: “ I don’t see as how I can do it.” “Why
not?” “ Well, the thing ain’t properly afore me. If I
was on the Bench, of course I’d sign at once. A beak was
fined £5O and struck off the rolls for signing fakements
like this. I don’t take no risks. See Snooker ; he’s just up
from Sydney, and knows the strength of it.” I travelled
five miles further to Snooker, who talked a good deal
about his interview with the Crown Law officials. He
wouldn’t sign either. “ I ain’t got no jurisdiction,” he
said ; “ but if I was on the Ben-—” “ Bench be hanged ! ”
I roared. “If there’s no bench here, get on the table or
the hen-house and sign.” But he wasn’t taking any risks.
He advised me to see a lawyer. I rode another 10 miles
into town and gave the documents to a lawyer. He wit-
nessed my signature without any fee, but for perusing
the papers and advising that there was no necessity to
consult him had the J.P. persons done their duty, he
charged me £l. The only use of the country J.P. is to
advise you to go to some other J.P.
* ■* * *
The number of drinking shops in the
sugar districts of N.Q. might very well be reduced
in the interests of the white workers who are to
take the place of the disappearing Tommy Tanna.
Treasurer Kidston visited one of these milling
centres a few months ago, and found five public-
houses, but no bank of any description. Naturally
the workers’ cheques generally disappeared in the
pubs. Kidston thereupon established a branch of
the Savings Bank, so that there would be some
place besides the beer-factory for the cheques to go
to. Also, he ordered that the publicans’ liquor
supply should no longer be carried up from the
port on the Government tramway. In future,
the.cart with the whisky must take its chance of
being bogged on the dirt road, and every time it
sinks out of sight something will be gained for the
cause of temperance.
“ Huffin-Gruffin ” : Was travelling recently
•on one of Bent’s country railway lines where the
majority of the stations are of the “ Woman-in-
Charge” or “No-One-in-Charge” kind. Which
means that the line runs through big sheep-walks
where there is no traffic to employ men. There
are three such stations in consecutive order on, or
so adjacent to, one property that the owner uses
them alternately for the sake of variety. The day
I travelled he was using the middle one of the
three. He was sending some prize cattle to a
show. The train went along pretty early a.m.,
and on our arrival the prize bulls and things were
ceremoniously led out of the waiting-room on to the
platform by their attendants. Thus do cattle take
the place of human beings in the empty wastes of
Victoria where settlement is forbidden by the
bumptious landlord.
* * * »
“ Bushman” on the Mongol:—
I’ve read Cole’s 20 reasons for a mongrel Australia.
Men like Cole don’t know. The filthy, leprous Chow,
cunning as Satan, possessed of the fascination of the
serpent by virtue of his unutterable and super-human
wickedness, becomes, when the eyes of men like Cole are
on him, the harmless, smoodging “John,” beloved of the
capitalist, the symbol and embodiment of cheap labor.
The converted, scoundrel has much work to do. He has
seen the inner life ; he knows. I have been a scoundrel.
I’ve seen, I know. These Chows, when in China, may have
been good men ; I’m talking of the Chows weget out here.
I’ve seen big Cfiow camps. There are atrocities there to
which murders are as nothing, and crimes which are name-
less. The Chow’s highest idea, save one, of happiness is a
filthy hut, gin and opium, and a white prostitute. There
is one higher happiness, though not so easy of attainment
—to get a young white child (the younger the better), to
get her completely in his power, ruin her body and soul,
saturate her with Opium and disease ; then to turn her
out into the gutter. Heaven save us from men like Cole—
who don’t know.
* * * * *
“ Nyin” from Northern Victoria :
What’s ahead of us in the weather line ? Notice the
ground spiders are building walls round their out-door
orifices, some of them an inch and a half high. Methinks
there is a wet spell ahead! Black duck are brooding
unusually early this season on the plains ; I have rarely
seen their fluffy flotillas in August before, but they have
been round all right this year, likewise broods of native
companions. These birds evidently expected wet weather,
for the nests I’ve come across were built about a foot off
the ground.
FAIR INDUCEMENT.
PHELAN : “ Understand me oust ’n fer all,
Mashter Coolinan, you’re simply got t’ marry
me daughter. I'll make ye do ut.”
COOLINAN ( sullenly): “ Well, you'll have ter
shout!”
“ Vatu” : In Hogan’s store a large tin of
treacle hung over the counter. There was a hole
in the tin, and the treacle dripped on to a heap of
wrapping paper. Hogan was playing cards over
the counter with the customer, and losing. Fi-
nally he lost his temper also. It was not business
to break out on the customer, and he had to break
out on something ; so he said : “It’s this dommed
dhrip, dhrip, dhrippin’ at me ear-hole that’s inther-
ferin’ wid me play.” Then vmlently pushing the
heap of paper to the far end of the counter, he
hissed, “Dom ye; dhrip up there.” Then he
wanted to know what the pandemonium the cus-
tomer was laughing at.
* » » *
“ San Remo” : He characteristics of Aus-
tralian aborigines. In my youth I met and mixed
some with blackfellows, and 1 knew several
niggers who were really fine fellows. When a lad
of 13 I did a lot of shooting with a nigger as a
guide. My favorite aboriginal, known as plain
Billy, was a born hunter, keen sport and enter-
taining fellow. He once warned me never to let
a nigger, even a friendly one, walk behind me.
What he wished to convey was the impulse to
make a clean hit which steals into a nigger’s mind
when a tempting chance offers itself. The impulse
to strike and kill will ofttimes flash through even
a white man’s mind, but his training steadies him.
I have heard timber-getters say that, on occasion,
they were scared at an impulse to drop their axe
upon a stooping comrade. Our Australian nigger,
as a nigger, is not too bad.
A year or two ago a well-known Sydney
clergyman did a tour in Western N.S.W., and
held a service at the station of one of the biggest
men north of the Murray. After the last Volun-
tary, he was invited to the homestead, and
thought it an appropriate time to tap the magnate
for a trifle for the Good Cause. “You don’t get
me giving any o’ my hard-earned blanky quids to
the church,” remarked the host breezily. “ Very
well, very well,” said the Rev.; “ but there’s r.o
necessity to use such language.” “Isn’t there ?”
asked the host. “ But there is. If I use blanky
bad language it’s because you’ve got a blanky lip.
The Lord won’t send down any o’ His blanky rain
to feed my blanky sheep, and He expects me to
weigh out my blanky quids to feed His blanky
parsons. It’s a blanky imposition.”
* * » *
“ Robert Hap ” : Will some aboriginal iar
seriously deny this ? A poultry farmer assures me
that he can make a turkey hen “set” at any
time by administering to her a tablespoonful
of whisky. He says that by this method a turkey
hen hatched 18 duck-eggs—nearly twice as many
as an ordinary duck can cover. Of course, every
abo.-liar knows that if you give an emu beer it
will hatch an albatross ; but is there anything in
this whiskied turkey theory? If so, then the
ruffian who slays a caterpillar in cold blood is not
in it for cruelty with the knowledgable poultry
breeder.
* * * *
“ Roma ” : Only about one house in 40 in
South Gippsland owns a “parlor.” My landlady
has one, but, for the life of her, doesn’t know
what to do with it. A stray hen lately pushed
herself in, and chose the fireplace, with its fancy
paper shavings, wherein to retire from public life
awhile. I called Mrs. Cocky’s attention to the
fact. She said: “Oh, then I won’t disturb’er.
Ther room’s lyin’ idle, an’ she kin git in an’ out
at the hole at the back, an’ it’ll be handy for
feedin’ the chicks in ’ere when they comes out.”
,*•***
Some misguided crank recently released
two American racoons at Rotorua (M.L.) They
were expected to enter the tourist-alluring busi-
ness, but the bear-like animals weren’t on any
entertaining job. They remained scarce during
the day, and the only evidence of their nocturnal
materialisation was the large quantity of dead
poultry about next morning. Now there is £5
offering for their death.
“Paul C.” : Mrs. Brown
wasn’t going to buy any more
microbes from her milkman, _so
she sent Brown to a cow-spanking
friend on the South Coast to pur-
chase a milker. B.’s knowledge
of cow was confined to his meet-
ings with it on a meat-dish, and
when his friend said he cm!ld
have the pick of the yard for £l2,
he chose a paunchy poley old
enough to have a Vote. His
friend Wouldn’t take advantage
of his ignorance, and advised
him to take a three-yfear-feid feoVv
then in the bail. Brown agreed,
but as his friend was just then
called aWay, B. gave a milkman a
shilling and asked him to tell
him anything he knew about the
beast. The milkman knew nothing
against her, but when he went
to bail up another cow, it oc-
curred to milkman No. 2 that he
ought to make something out of
the stranger. He whispered mys-
teriously, “ Don’t like t’ see yer
taken down, mister. Look ’fere ”
(opening the cow’s mouth and ex'*
hibiting the top jaw)-, “ she (asfi’t
got a tooth in ’er ’eat). Old as
the bloomin’ ’ills; not worth
thirty bob.” Brown tipped him
a half-crown, and went indig-
nantly in search of his friend.
They met in the stockyard, and
B.’s eloquence speedily produced
a punching match. When the
combatants had been dragged
apart, Brown scraped the mud
off himself and strode off to the train; and
Mrs. B. still buys bacteria and chalk from her
milkman.
“ The Prooshan ” : “ F.C.” (B, 21/9/1)5)
wants more definite information ‘re “ Old Mail.”
He wants to know its botanical liable, and where
it grows, &c. Well, I told “F.C.” I saw it
growing at Batlow (N.S.W.). I now tell “F.C.”
that it grows in every garden (as far as my expe-
rience goes) in N.S.W. It is an old English
plant, often called Southern Wood, and is about
2ft. high, has a bunchy form, fine of leaf, and is
strong of smell. I enclose a little sprout for the
benefit of the editorial staff. “F.C.” can have
the sprig on application at 214 Bulletin-street—
that is, if wild horses will induce the staff to part
with it. Planted round peach trees it effectually
keeps off aphides.
* * * *
One thing which Victoria badly requires
as regards its Local Government system is an Act
authorising the Works Department to repair
country roads which the local authority has
allowed to go to wreck that the local landholder
might not have his feelings hurt by paying rates ;
to levy a local rate to pay for the repairs ; and to
put the local councillors in gaol for shameful
neglect of duty in the matter. Unless something
like this is done Victoria’s share of the Sydney-
Melbourne main road will yet become a mere bush
track, haunted by wild animals, spooks, butter-
agents, dingoes, hawkers, locusts, and devils.
THE GENTLE PERSUADER.
LITTLE BILL: “I persuaded two little boys to stop
fighting yesterday , gran'pa.”
G RANDPA: “ That’s a good little chap. And what
did you say to them, my little man?”
LITTLE BILL : “ I didn’t say nothin’; just throwed
rocks at ’em, and they chased me all the way
home.”
„
Years ago there was an old man who
camped on the Bathurst racecourse, now the site
of a State farm, and looked on himself as the
owner of that extensive domain. On race days
he would appear, clad in the cast-off belltopper
and other habiliaments of the parish priest, and
armed with a knobby stick, and sternly order the
race-goers off his estate ; but after an appeal to his
sporting instincts and an adjournment to the
booth he would graciously consent to the
Programme being finished, with an injunction to
be more careful in future. He was more severe
°? ob ber trespassers, and as he had a habit of em-
Poising his remarks on the rights of property
with an axe, small boys out hare-hunting never
stood on the order of their £ oin ff> but g ot -
WHEN WILLIAM JAMES COMES TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Expectancy doth smooth the lurking frown
From vendor of the stock called “ hand-me-down,”
Who shifteth oft the misfit suit, and then
Demandeth loud the sum of three poundth ten.
E’en while he gazeth strangely from his door
Ye tipster eagerly his tale doth pour ;
Ye newsboy gaily speedeth out of range,
And speedeth, too, the bushman’s rightful change.
He bounds, or strives to bound, on passing tram,
And scarce hath time to utter more than d ,
And as the blocks arise to smite his head
The very atmosphere seems tinged with red.
But pity for his sudden, sorry plight,
Now moveth She Who Walketh Oft By Night,
Who pointeth out the hard-by domicile
Where he may rest his aching limbs awhile.
He resteth, and forgetteth all his woes,
And She, meanwhile, forgetteth not his clothes.
He walketh forth, with words of burning fire,
And scanty, old, and worn is his attire.
And then for city life he lacketh zest,
He packeth up his swag, and maketh West,
And museth oft, his thoughts, perchance, a sin.
A stranger I, and lo ! they took me in.
N.S.W.
NULLA.


Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body
and there will be no bad after-effects ! We are
talking of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
&
jLS
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT,
IMF- Buy Whole Bottles. *9)
ELEVEN
REASONS
WHY WE SELL SO
MANY RINGS jt
h
Selected Diamonds,
Choice Whole Pearls,
£9 9s.
2 Choice Diamonds and
2 different colored
Sapphires,
£6 6s.
3 Choice Pearls, 2 Dia-
monds, 2 Turquoises,
&3 3Sm
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them in our own workshops.
3. We buy the gems in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are ring setters.
7. We make only ISct. gem rings.
8. We are gem exporters.
9. We carry a large stock cf unset stones.
10. We receive them direct from the mines.
11. We sell at London prices.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS:
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
The burial customs of the New Hebrideans
are of a free and easy sort. Missionary John
Gillan told the Presbyterian Assembly m Mel-
bourne, the other day, ttyit when a man was
understood to be dying the date of his funeral was
fixed, the natives gathered from far and near, and
the funeral was carried out whether the invalid
was dead or not. Sometimes the buried man rose
indignantly from his shallow grave after the
mourners had departed.
* * * *
Foxes threaten to become as prolific as
rabbits in some parts of this virile continent.
T’other day a Vic. cocky wanted the shire secre-
tary to give him the bonus on 12 pups which lie
had just taken from a vixen he had shot. This is
believed to be a record fox birth. The law- an ass
in this as in other things—doesn’t allow a bonus
on pups, only on marketable skins ; so foxes too
young to be skinned are left alone. Vixens, too,
are spared by those who eke out a living shooting
or trapping Reynard.
“ Hamer ” : Chanced upon Murrurundi (if
the name isn’t a curse in aboriginal it ought to
be), and found it one of those disjointed strings of
abiding places that grow from nowhere in parti-
cular towards the railway. Round the station
(which, by the-bye, is Haydonton, or some such
thing, and not Murrurundi) there is a goodly col-
lection of wood and zinc, and then a space of
about half-a-mile to the hall and the newspaper
office—the newspaper, as it were, howling in the
wilderness—-and another half-mile to the post-
office, which is, so to speak,'an outpost-office of
civilisation. The alleged town is drawn out as
far as it can be without breaking, but it is cracked
in the middle with the strain.
WELL CATERED FOR.
VISITOR (approaching township): “ Can you tell
me if any of these houses is a pub? ”
CHORUS OF NATIVES : “Fust six on the right."
“ Wiljar ” : The wood-vandal and his
license—how often the one is found wanting,
and the other not to be found. I remember one
notable case. Wild William and Hairy ’Enery
had only one license between them, and when the
Law rode up one day at a hand-gallop, Bill
dropped his hatchet and made off into the scrub.
Through tree-clump and billabong, over gutter
and rabbit warren, up and down, around and
under, sideways and across sped William, till the
“John,” portions of whose skin, whiskers, and
uniform flapped convulsively from sundry dry-box
limbs, finally cornered him. The Law was angry,
vehement, infuriated. “Yer loicense—show me
yer loicense ! ” it demanded. Bill dug it out of
his bosom and showed it. “Then phwat were yez
runnin’ for ? ” “ Can’t I run when I likes ? ” said
Bill, and the bobby, muttering objurgations, gal-
loped back for ’Enery. But ’Enery, like the indi-
vidual who slides down the verandah-post with
the family heirloom, was missing.
AT THE ELEVENTH HOUR.
MOTHER : “ You Willie , you go that errand at once, or you’ll get a thrashing! ”
WILLIE'S PAL : “ Better rim at once, Bill, while yer luck's in."
“ Nym.” : I have read a lot in “ Aborigi-
nalities ” about the mystic signs Hindu hawkers,
wallaby trackers, &c., leave behind them to signify
the dispositions of residents along the tracks of
trade, truck and cadge, but can anyone tell me the
sign cats give their fellow felines to assure them
of a place where there is decent burial to be
had ? I set a bed of early peas a few weeks back.
Going forth in the frost hours to inspect, a few
morns later, I found a defunct tom-cat spread out
like a dank spectre on my treasures, and I buried
him deep. Now, though those peas are not two
inches above ground, yet I've had a crop of 14
dead tom-cats off them. I buried them all, and
have only one plot left. I would fain know the
reason and wherefore of all these cats.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Between South Comongin
and Ardoch (Bulloo River, Q.) I encountered a
new sensation. I came upon a cattle camp on a
creek, where a
mob of cattle
was rounded up,
an d stockmi n
were cutting out
fats. The latter
were gathered
up as they were
cut off the main
mob, and held a
little distance
away by two
mounted gins.
Two more gins
were at the side
of the main mob
to keep them
from breaking
away. All used
men’s saddles,
were dressed like
men (minus
boots), and rode
like men ; but
only one sported
a hat, a little
pocket felt. It
was a curious
sight to see them
racing about,
shouting and
laughing, in big
trousers and
striped shirts,
and their long black hair flowing in the wind.
They leaned far forward, and when in pursuit of a
beast worked the four tentacles with great energy.
Stock-gins are common on these plains, and often
go out on long, lonely rides with white stockmen
at mustering times. They also do a little boun-
dary-riding. The first stock-gin I saw broke me
up. I was doubtful whether it was an ordinary
man who wanted his hair cut, ora colored poet,
till I saw the strange one drop the reins on the
horse’s neck to do up her back hair.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Paul Cupid ” : A common bush error is
the notion that all snakes are produced from
(deposited) eggs. While nearly all our harmless
snakes come thus into the world, our most
poisonous species bring forth their young alive.
The brown snake is an exception. It lays about
20 eggs, which are hatched by the heat of the sun
acting on the debris in which they are deposited.
Pythons, by the way (including carpet, diamond,
and rock snakes), hatch their eggs by coiling on
them. The tiger snake produces as many as
three dozen young at once, but the black snake is
not nearly so prolific, and the death-adder brings
forth but 12 or 14 young at a birth. It appears
to be a rule of Nature that the most deadly shall
be the least productive.
Kapunda (S.A.) Herald describes a 96-
miles stage without water made by 1250 Strnth-
field bullocks belonging to Sidney Kidman. This
is claimed as a lecord. The cattle still looked well
at the end of the journey.
• * * *
“Ifcan” : Use of gum-leaves as a preven-
tive against fruit tree pests (B. 21/9/’O5) is practised
by a successful orehardist near Singleton (N.S. W.).
He has practically no scale or lice on his trees, and
he declares this is due to eucalypti mulching.
# • * *
AN.S.W. weather curiosity is the Naas
Valley, west of Murrumbidgee, extending fully
40 miles. It never has other than a north or
south wind—due north or due south. The Rev.
T. Druitt, stationed on the Monaro in 1860, was
the first to draw attention to the peculiarity. His
meteorological journal covered several years’ ob-
servations in the valley, and no other wind was
encountered.
* * # w
An English visitor recently asked a native
the meaning of the name “ Pahiatua,” borne by
an inland township. “Dunno,”was the laconic
reply. “Well, its strange that you don’t know
the meaning of your own names,” retorted the
tourist. “ Humph, is it! What’s the meaning of
‘Manchester?’” “Dunno,” said the new arri-
val. “Well, it’s strange” began the Maori-
lander. “Of course it is,” said the globe-trotter.
“Nym.”: There was a lovely “mix-up”
on the Victorian railways on the night of the
recent Echuca Show. Special trains ran from
Rochester and Tatura, different lines converging
to the border rendezvous. The time-table issued
by the show promoters timed the trains to return
to Rochester at 7.30 p.m., and to Tatura at 8 p.m.,
but the stationmaster, going according to the
Departmental time-table, despatched his trains
almost empty to their destination half an hour
earlier in each instance. As the irate passengers
began to arrive, to find their only mode of getting
back to their homes for nearly 24 hours well on
the homeward journey, the ructions commenced
and the ’Chooka staff had a warm time. The
telephone was switched on to Melbourne, whence
the reply came that the show people had
arranged for the trains to be delayed, but
the head-office authorities had failed to notify
the Echuca stationmaster of the change.
Wires were despatched recalling the two
trains from Rochester and Kyabram respectively
to take on the foaming contingents. In the mean-
time about threescore of benighted passengers
sought lodgings for the night, after despatching
wires to their homes explaining the situation.
They were quite unaw-are of the recall of the mis-
timed trains. Many business men whose position
was especially desperate hired cabs for 20-mile
journeys over a bit of the worst road in the State,
and paid 30s. or 405., or more, for the privilege of
being passed when quarter-way on their journey
by the recalled train for which they held return
tickets. That was the last—the very last—straw,
and cabs laden with curses, and with objurgation
streaming out behind them like banners or sea-
serpents, plodded wearily along that long, long,
bumpy road until almost daybreak.
SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the spring-time when the poet
Turns his thoughts to pen and ink,
Others turn to backing horses,
Not a few to love, and drink.
Ravings of the “golden wattle,”
And the “ fern fronds overhead,”
Call to mind the golden guineas
Carried off by Mr. Stead.
“ Nymphs of face and form entrancing
In the scented summer dark,”
Then you take your bit of muslin
Wandering in Centennial Park.
“Sing of joy with theme enthralling
Lilt of thrush by leafage hid,”
Down in Engine-street they’re calling
“ Heads—a bloomin’ half-a-quid.”
“ Waterfalls with feathery foam-flakes,
Limpid streamlets, cool and clear ! ”
Fast within each pub they’re jerking
Gallons of Australian beer.
“ Fragrant is the summer morning,
Breaking perfume from each flower; ”
In my hash-tower pickled onions
All these perfumes overpower.
Oh, spring-poets cease your singing,
Stay your never-ending verse,
Or I know that you will drive me
Straight to drink—or something worse.
N.S. W.
HORACE HALLORAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
I returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Canon Drysbone: Letter received. Cost 2d.
for deficient postage by reason of the crudely humorous
way you fixed up the stamps. Verses gone into basket.
6. M. Smith: Your statement that “ the British arms
were successful ” in the Transvaal “as they always have
been,” is pretty sweeping. England has a fine military
record, but still the English were three times driven out
of France and compelled to make peace, and two unsuc-
cessful wars with the U.S., one with the Boers, two
disastrous little campaigns in Argentina, including the
surrender of a whole expedition at Buenos Ayres, and a
few other trifles, damage your theory. Also your
bit of verse is bad enough to damage any theory....
Philos: “ A Woman ” declined. What is the alleged
vanity of woman to the shine of Bruce Smith’s plug hat?
Nulla: “Scalping” will make an “ Aboriginal” par...
E. : Spoiled by false rhymes. Only a genius at versi-
fying should try that metre Craigy : Sorry, but
couldn’t think of it....Matlo: “Lighthouse” is very
poor description Hugh S. : “Ebb and Flow” rather
below par. It ebbs too much, and doesn’t flow worth
6|d.... J.C.A. : “Violet” and “Gems” both very slim
trifles....Peto : The Bush needs a louder call than that.
It’s no good whispering to so large a thing as the bush.
It’s like offering a peanut to an elephant....W.M. :
“ Interpretation ” hardly suitable. The other is g00d....
James Street: Have no recollection whatever. If the
thing was published send date of the papers you want.
Can’t hunt through a wilderness of back numbers to find
it... .Sherlock : You don’t even say who the politician is.
Trade secret perhaps Barnuin : You say there should
be some trade society that can protect buyers, and add
“when Pyppe the tobacconist tells you he is offering a
prime Havana, how nice it would be to feel sure you
weren’t getting a smoke made in Brickfield Hill, out of
cabbage grown at Waterloo.” Apparently you belong to
hat Stinking Fish class which assumes that any Aus-
tralian-made cigar must necessarily be cabbage and
rubbish, which is wrong. You may be rubbish, but other
Australian products are noc necessarily so Frank K. :
Space left at rail-joints is to allow for the expansion of
the rails under heat. If you laid a line in cold
weather, packing the joints tightly, that line would arch
itself in hot weather like a row of indignant cats....
F. : Thanks for photo of freak, though it wouldn’t repro-
duce clearly Lilydale : The only new item in the rules
at your “darnce” is No. 2: “ Any gentleman drinking
out of another gentleman’s pannikin will be expelled."
The rest we have heard before Q.T.: The paper that
said Tim Bulletin was against the North Coast line is an
a<s. Tiie Bulletin wants to see that line built (out of
revenue), and it can’t lie-started (out of revenue) a day
too soon Guy Mopoke : Wouldn’t stand print
H. 0.8.: Not strong enough to justify its brevity Madge
Hawthorn : Well-written, but too conventional in subject
and treatment C.A.B. : Reads like Dickens and
water Jeach: Good in places, but unequal and
too long. Sculptor : Has poetic atmosphere, but
is too rugged in form and esoteric in expres-
sion Dad: Yes, “Ploughboy” is the best, but
it isn’t best enough Odds: You have ideas, but
your English is inadequate.... Black Sheep: Yes, there’s
promise in your verse, and the prose sketch is pretty fair.
....Psycho: Some strength in them, but not enough
literary finish R.R.W.: Interesting in its way. Sorry it’s
off our track J. Sharkey : Funny, but inconsecutive....
Jake : Reason is that they lack grip, and the humor is
mostly forced.... Karoona : Far-fetched and pointless....
Peggy S. : No ; they are certainly not rubbish, but your
versification is rather shaky... .j.B.C. : Better, but still
below the mark Polstan : The nautical inaccuracies
spoil it Stray: Has good points, but is too unequal.
G.B.A. : Scrappy and unsatisfactory J.P.W. :
“ Dave ” has a good i lea, but neither has quality enough.
..Nemo: Founded on a chestnut Hubert B. : No
thing in that C.H.T. : The only good part of it is
obviously unoriginal... Rory: Stodgy and undistinguished.
A. M‘T. : “Elucidation” doesn’t elucidate worth a
cent Mary H. W.: Graceful, but very watery of idea.,..
Olancie : (1) Can’t trace. (2) Wood-blocks are rarely used
now; the usual newspaper process is the photo-zinco.
Use Indian ink and any stiff good white paper Nym. *
That’s no “ new' ” addition to the pigeon-shooting horror,
but an old trick and quite a recognised part of the
“ sport.” T.M. : Can’t open the “ Abo.’ column to hen
facts E.R.F. : We want new news, bright frcm the
mint. Matter you sent too trivial... .Dawnie : Grafting
idea probably held over for print. Wait a while....
Brindled : “ Swallowed the File ” actor yarn was invented
the same time as files Square Set :If it came to hand
it was either accepted and paid for or answered Bill :
Perfectly aware the rooster in the New Testament only
crowed twice. We made this rooster crow thrice because
it seemed a specially bad case... .E.A.F. : “ Hum Drum
Life ”is a rather hum-drum bit of verse. Read aloud, it
sounds just like a large fly in a bottle Whiskers :
Killed by such rhymes as “come,” “done,” “home,”
which make a very bad treble C.R.A. (or some other
spidery hieroglyphic): “ Paradise Lost ” and “My Queen ”
too Don Juanesque.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Quondong : Rough sketch of caterpillar declined
G. : Difficult to “tell you the faults” when it’s all
faults Hal : Horrible picture of drunken sailor and
two drunken women... .Benson: Sea sickness is not a
pleasant subject, and the jest is venerable Jonas:
Neither sketch nor gag up to the mark J.G.B. : You
didn’t surely expect it to be accepted. ..C.B. : “ Minogue’s
Pub ” just misses the mark both as regards the picture
and the joke C.E..P. (Bournemouth, Eng.): Your
mild suggestion that w'e should urge people, as an item of
news, to send you stamps for your collection is duly noted
—in the waste-paper basket Daisy S. : Not suitable.
Pictures require to be drawn very much larger, so that
they can be photographed down. You can’t do good
detail work on that microscopic scale C.F.A. j Don’t
think you would ever make a pen-and-ink artist, and that
joke was standing on the shore here when Captain Cook
landed.. ..Unsuitable: E.F., W.O’C.
The Victorian Government is considering
an amendment of the recently-passed Act under
which an absconding husband may be arrested in
any Australian State and brought back at the
public expense. Recently quite a number of hard-
up Victorians over in "W estralia have been so hauled
back to meet their responsibilities, but when the
Law comes to deal with them the deserted wife
assures the court that her husband went over
West with her permission, and she only charged
him with desertion because he hadn’t sent her any
money for a week or two. As she further declines
to proceed with the case, the Law has reached the
conclusion that it is being got at; and Bent, as
Treasurer, is bellowing something awful.


THE JAP ALLIANCE: ANOTHER UNHAPPY MARRIAGE.
Britannia and her new colored husband.


~i?ere VC WW-*
H t-ier
A ll '
f J) r UoyJ o"
Old
nte» w|/o
XifinK rfe talj?
cf'tfe f>oor 1$ one
oj- J'
(nissions in
fl r u<7J
fee
On oU
(Q * C)
f G p.o^
| would h dt lew*.
f>o ok in w^hT
UoyJ
'ere -
Quite So. do you me v> Mistir ?”
flfmisferihpAhoel:— " And wl^'t'
your dnnJCs &T Pambles I sorbose —
hvfe you go-r your lines G l * £«e —-
IffteM:-" I slibM ,
\vX if rm*le<l %e
'frufij (Ku^terJ
forfy (Seeing 'fW'Vf»i‘”' e doWr »' t f« Wc J* °f't l
- -ve y oM ' l^re ?
y«! -1 si.>H*‘
Tfe oj 4$t r %4«r*l
H^Tmills i$
P employ 2o hjorc sKilled
Ijactret^." /
lfeid
His bventj h&4 not" \
Ji'oo in Hjeir }>ocKefs When
15« y Cdjne out to
in my I brn?P~
V ' 1/ * *
oh l y^,s 11
(Out Avfaf:.-' Kow 15 >
% remW °t
»y]^ v "
'f.RC \.
decked -fT N
•^' rom
iVl'en (^o^l^c'^oW)
1/e 13 ice Qwtyo*!
(2o»nr> |9 l oj- A C^hsid\bj^.
I tarred -frorn
hrjy ch«r*lj <
* He Cohjes not"! - sfje Silid
Ho Shiny
LVyUoyd \f\\
/Hen s*)oKer 6k' \\\\\\\v\ '
+c '\\L !|\ \
-fobvto. V IU
Vl]ile
if V/fjy t\of~ 'f\i- Sfo«0»»j*
IN MELBOURNE AND ELSEWHERE.


Says the smart girl “I wondered what
made Gussie so bright. He said the magic fluid
W *t 1 to wonder ! D.C.L. whisky
~that s the brand—and the secret. It makes them
so genial and brainy, it adds 25 per cent, to their
value ! When my Gussie has had just his proper
allowance of D.C.L.-he’s the brightest boy in
the world. It makes him happy and me happy.”*
TVT^ ing °’ Malle y g° fc off a good gibe at the
Melbourne telephone system m the Heps., the
other night:—
O’Malley : None of our telephone systems are a patch
on one they had in a little town in Washington Territory
where I was located 17 or 18 years ago.
A Voice : What was that system ?
O’Malley (savagely) : It was a system where you sot
an answer as soon as you rang the bell—not like the Mel-
bourne system which was the one used to warn Sodom
and Gomorrah.
. There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used ; has 100 different
uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
Send us your address and we will post you a
pamphlet gratis how to purify acetylene gas. Brandt
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney, and Eli'zabeth-street, Mel-
bourne.*
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.)
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh of
Melbourne.*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
‘ ‘ I am not a patch on my colleague, Mr.
Swinburne. He is a conscientious man; lam
not "—Premier Bent, to the electors at Benalla
(Vic.).
Nobody knows exactly what else sausages
contain, but there is money in them. A Melbourne
pork-butcher left property worth £54,000 for pro-
bate.
Profit Dowie, according to cable, has been
stricken with paralysis in Mexico, and doesn’t
seem equal to demonstrating the efficacy of
faith-healing on himself.
“Mr. Bent carries everything before him,”
says a Melbourne journalistic admirer of the Pride
of Brighton. This is somewhat of an exaggera-
tion. The writer has seen Mr. Bent, and estimates
that he carries about four-fifths before him.
The death of J. B. Crews, 90 years of age,
at Prahran (Vic.), recalls a forgotten politician of
the ’6o’s who, as a member of the Leg. Assembly,
so frequently submitted motions for the granting
of gratuities to women who had lost their husbands,
that he was known as “ the widows’ cruse.”
Just died in Germany, Frederick Elliott,
senior partner of a large wholesale drug business
in Sydney. He and his family, having made their
pile in Australia, settled down in Europe, and one
of the daughters married a foreign person who is
accused of being a count. The deceased druggist
has escaped the much-needed absentee-tax, so the
only hope of Australia is to settle with the count.
Mr. Gocher, who manages to give to even
suburban journalism a tone of honest vigor, is
starting a paper in Balmain (Sydney), where there
is a good field for reform work. A paper run in
the anti-borrowing interest has, in fact, a good
field for honest work anywhere in Australia. The
suburban papers are looking up of late ; one—the
North Sydney News —is now edited by lioderic
Quinn.
Obit last week John Leveson, of Sydney,
a quaint Hebrew, much interested in printers’ ink
and Freemasonry. In the former line he for many
years pushed theatrical playbills and kindred
literature. He was a very long-standing Mason,
and high up in the craft. A brother remains, B.
Leveson, who in the good days of the Lyster opera
troupe —the Squires-Escott era—was a leading
chorister and player of small parts.
The deceased Edward Langton, of Mel-
bourne, stood for Collingwood in 1859, and was
beaten; in 1861 he was again defeated for the
same constituency. He was then nominated for
East Melbourne, but was beaten by Ambrose
Kyte. In 1864 he contested East Bourke Boroughs,
and was beaten. In 1865 he stood for Dundas,
with the same result; but in Jan., 1866, he was
elected for East Melbourne, and proved of mighty
little value when he arrived.
“BAIL UP !”
The Melbourne Argus has recently broken out in a
series of bushranging and piratical articles.
Deplorable moral lapse of a hitherto highly
respectable old lady of Collins-street.
Fawkner, who claimed to he the founder
of Melbourne, and was certainly the busiest of its
early fathers, will get some further immortality
by having his name attached to the new and vast
cemetery at Fawkner, beyond Coburg. Unless
the cremationists push their creed more vigorously
than they have been doing, many tens of thousands
of Melbourne folk will be planted at Fawkner.
But how about Batman ? His name goes beo-ging'
and no bone-yard is called after him.
Died suddenly at Georgetown the other
day, aged 57, Major Plummer, S.A.’s. best-known
school inspector. His appearance had a terrifying
effect on children who did not know him, for he
was 6ft. 4in high, needlessly large even for that
height, and decorated with a flagrant cyclone of
black whiskers. All the same he was the kindest
man who ever wore the outward semblance of a
huge pirate. One of his daughters is Adelaide’s
most influential woman doctor.
Editor Bonython, of Adelaide Advertiser
who completes his 57th year on Saturday (Oct. 15)’
joined that paper as a very junior reporter 42 years
ago, m the days when its founder (J. H. Barrow)
still lived. Its motto, when it was established in
August, 1858, was, “Unlock the lands”—which
were then monopolised by squatters—and it is now
supporting the graduated land-tax proposals of the
Pnce Government, as it did the progressive land-
tax scheme of the Ooekburn Government 15 years
ago.
Up Port Darwin way there died, the
other day, Henry Thomas Roberts, an old
Territory identity. He was one of the original
discoverers of the Daly River copper mine, and
the sole survivor of the attack on his party at the
mine by blacks on September 3rd, 1885. Roberts’
three mates were speared to death, and he was
left seemingly lifeless from a blow on the head,
but he recovered in time to enable the police to
take the trail. He did a lot of mining in the
Territory, and was sole proprietor of the Extended
Union mine during some of its best days.
“ Banksia ” writes :
Jrhn Norton had rather a warm time of it in Westralia.
One of his first duties on landing- in the Sandy State was to
receive a writ for £5OOO damages, for sundry remarks on
Mrs. Sims Reeves. A second writ awaited him in Perth,
and for the rest of the tour the air was blue with writs
and libels and remarks. John imparted a little interest
to local politics by referring to one politician as a “ Parlia
mentary pirate,” and to Premier Daglish as a many,
adjectived saint from Subiaco. After which—more writs !
When the steamer bearing John swung out from Fre
mantle on the eastward trip, a lawyer’s clerk was left
panting on the wharf and franticallj' waving another writ
for £5OOO.
W. C. Addison, a son of A. R. Addison,
of the Leg. Council, is now reckoned S.A.’s best
rifle-shot, J. T. Lake having apparently decided
to give his whole time to selling guns. Addison,
this year, carried off the valuable Simpson trophy,
at the Rifle Association matches, for the second
time. He won it in 1903, and arrived second in
1904. Addison, sen., though now well over 60,
still pots away each year, and wins prizes. He
was the man who offered to lead an invading S.A.
army into Victoria when the Murray waters argu-
ment was hot. He also volunteered for service
in the Cohen war.
The oldest Methodist minister in Aus-
tralasia is John Watsford, a Sydney native, born
in 1820 when Macquarie was Governor. His
father, in 1833, was in partnership with John King
in the Globe Tavern, a small brick house which
stood off the road a little, at the south-east corner
of Castlereagh and Market streets. The firm also
owned the line of coaches then running between
Sydney and Parramatta. John Watsford is one
of the last, if not the last, of the original old King’s
School boys. The school was opened in 1832, in
Lower George-street, Parramatta, and young
Watsford was one of six day scholars who entered.
The presence of a leading woman advocate
of adult franchise in the gallery of the Victorian
Assembly, the other night, led Gaunson, M.L.A.
for the Public Service, to drop into a course of
uncouth and bear-like jest. After dealing with
several aspects, he referred to the lady in question.
“ And then,” he said, “there’s Miss . She
went to America and saw President Roosevelt,
who told her to keep her cradle full. And she’s
going to do it too. (Laughter.) She’s about to
get married and obey President Roosevelt’s
advice.” Next evening the lady visited the House
again, but as soon as Gaunson arose she left. The
Vic. Public Service must feel proud of its repre-
sentative.
“B” : Apropos P. A. M‘Anulty, ex-
taxing officer (B. 28/9/’O5). There was a pre-
vious M‘Anulty, who was crier of the Mel-
bourne County Court in the days of Judge
Robert Williams Pohlman (50’s and CO’s).
The crier was eccentric. He once had
some litigation which he took to the
Supreme Court, before Justice Redmond
Barry. _ The case was going against him,
when, in a sort of thinking-aloud way, he
said that he wished he had brought it “be-
fore my own Judge.” Barry picked him up
on the instant. _ “ Your own J udge ? What
do you mean, sir ? Do you keep a Judge ? ”
The crier explained that by “his own
Judge” he meant Judge Pohlman, of the
County Court, of which learned institution
he (M'Anulty) was chief crier. Barry non-
suited him, and went away to think over
the superb cheek of a man who talked as
if he kept a judge in the dog-kennel in his
own back yard.
Not satisfied with spreading in Eng-
land quaint yarns regarding Australian
laws and wild romances about some six-
hatter hallucination, Rev. “Bleeds” Fit-
chett proposes to re-inflict on this suffering
country an English blood-and-fire revivalist
known as Gipsy Smith. Smith is not a
gipsy ; he merely uses the prefix to make a
striking stage-name. If entrepreneur Fit-
chew brings this star to Australia, Smith
will probably convert the same persons who
found grace through the efforts of Geil and
lorrey, and became backsliders a few days
after those religious variety actors had de-
parted. The converts who assist in a re-
vival farce are nearly always persons who
have been “saved’’(for about a week each
time) by every previous hell-fire purveyor
that happened along, It is a poor religion
that constantly needs reviving.
A candidate for a Maoriland consti-
tuency has publicly declared that he isn't
standing because he failed to get an invitation to
a garden party given by the present member,
ile would have stood in any case.
King Tawhiao’s whare and the Maori
Parliament House at Maungakawa, near Cam-
bridge (M.L.), have been tapu since the king’s
ri ea T'-,, •, ¥ an o a which clustered near, along
® j hillside, is also deserted. Tawhiao’s house
meetl «g hall remain intact and untouched,
throne stands at one end of the hall, and
on a table by it reposes the late king’s grey bell-
topper. I awhiao was buried with Christian rites
at Huntly, but his body was afterwards secretly
exhumed by men of his own tribe, and deposited
in a cave up the mountains, unknown to the
pakeha. lhe ancient custom was to lift the body
after it had lain for a time in the first place of
burial, scrape the bones, paint them red, and
deposit them m a cavern, so presumably the old
king was painted red.
Thomas Caradoc Kerry, of Maoriland,
charged in England with stealing books from
seamen of the yacht Pandora, formed, nearly a
lifetime ngo the pioneer New Guinea Trading
eok one iV° rd w “ P resi i ent - the capital was
£ 25 ,0°0 and Kerry called on Governor Macgregor
vrf 000,000 acres of Papuan territory. The
h aPPened there the brawny Scot having
neither the will nor the authority to part with
such an area. A gold co. was Kerry’s next venture
and many cute people in Melbourne and Sydney
were favorably impressed, when a rumor got
out that the samples came, not from New
Guinea, but from Maoriland. But the rosv-
complexioned, yellow-bearded traveller kept
his spirits up, and sailed the seven seas in his own
yacht, and offered guano islands and pearl
lagoons for sale. He sometimes won and some-
times lost. His latest trouble (before the present
one) was over a charge of casting away a vessel for
tne sake of the insurance, but he got out of that,
and the beery mariner who was the mainstay of
the charge fell m himself.
The rivalry be-
tween Sudden Solomon
and S. J. Mitchell,
the two Northern Terri-
tory members in S.A.
Assembly, has resulted
in a sort of go-as-you-
please contest between
the two, in which
length of wind is the
most prominent feature.
If Solomon speaks to
a motion after Mit-
chell, he can be relied
on to repeat his col-
league’s arguments,
with a few fresh words
of wisdom of his own
thrown in, in a speech
at least one hourlonger.
But then the lonely
little lawyer generally
gets even on the next
measure. The advan-
tage of speaking last is
so obvious that the
two are continually
battling for the posi-
tion in a manner highly
reminiscent of Don
Walker or Plugger Bill
hanging back for the
other fellow to sprint.
T’other day a member was
blaming Mitchell for wast-
ing time in moving a reso-
lution (re Mac Donnell
Ranges railway), and
pointed out that, as he
had talked for nearly two
hours, the Sudden One was
certain to talk for three.
“Ah, well,” said Mitchell,
“ thank God, I’ve got the
right of reply ! ”
The death of William
Henry Suttor, M.L.0., re-
moves one of the oldest
remaining natives of “over
the Blue Mountains.” Had
liv f ( ?- until now lie w °uld have com-
pleted his 71st year. He was responsible
for a small volume of early reminis-
cences. There was a time when a N.S.W.
Ministry didn’t seem complete without a
puttor—William Henry of that ilk was
m two Ministries, under Farnell and
Parkes, and Francis Bathurst of the
same ilk was in seven, under Parkes
(twice), Jennings, Dibbs (twice), Lyne
and See.
in the remote places about
A • Willis- He was stopping for a few days at
the bhingle Hut, outback from Coonamble. No
one at the place knew him, and in his modesty he
did not enlighten them. After he had been there
for a while, and did nothing but sit in the
best parlor and think, and drink lemonade,
people got curious, and put a governess to
pump him. So she started in “ Are you a com-
mercial traveller?” “No!” “Oh!” (pause)
An insurance agent?” “No!” “Piano-tuner?”
“No!” “Well! what are you at all; I’m real
curious?’ “Well, look here, Madam,” said
Willis,lm a forger. I've got six months, and
the option of doing it in Coonamble gaol or at the
Shingle Hut; and I m going back to Coonamble
gaol to-morrow ! ”
Interesting to note that a very large pro-
portion of the early leaders of Parliamentary
Labor parties pull out as soon as they think they
have made themselves a more or less sure nest in
politics. Examples—Joe Cook, of N.S. Wales;
Glassey, m Queensland ; and now Daglish, of
Wes trail a. Trenwith’s case, in Victoria, was a
bit different. Fact seems to be that when they
happen along first the Labor parties find them-
selves in strange surroundings, and while they are
more or less stunned, the most fluent spouter, or
tlm person who has too vast an opinion of himself
to feel embarrassed in any company, pushes to
the front—just as the froth gets to the top of the
pot when the beer is poured out first. But the
froth doesn t last, and neither does that sort of
leader.
TYPE OF OUR NEW IMMIGRANTS
FOR THE LAND.
.
Ihe late Victorian County Court Judge
Gaunt, when police magistrate at Ballarat, was
one of the Berry Government’s Black Wednesday
victims, and furiously did he rage thereat. Throw-
ing his alleged lineal descent from John of Gaunt
at the foot of the British throne he loudly peti-
tioned that fount of justice to hearken to his woes,
One indirect result was that the way was made
easy for two of his sons to join the navy ; while he
himself simmered down into practising before the
bench over which he had formerly presided
Gaunt was a shrewd police magistrate,' as one glib
rascal found to his undoing when tried for some
petty larceny. The prisoner's specious defence
had almost got him off, when he miscalled his
worship tny lord, ’thus betraying an acquaint-
ance with the English criminal courts, and Gaunt
sent him back to the large stone receptacle for
further inquiry. At the same sitting, the dead
Bungaree. A decision went in her favor and she
left the court with a bob to the bench and a “God
bless yer, yer holiness!” ° d
CHANGING COLOR.
S HE: "Which 'has the better disposition a blondt
or a brunette? ”
HE : "You ought to know. You're been both.”
Edward Langton, just dead in Melbourne,
seemed fated to espouse every cause as it was
dying. He went into Vic. Assembly (at the sixth
try) as a Freetrader just at the time that Protec-
tion became triumphant. Doing well in mining
and general finance, he went into a sugar specula-
tion in time to see it swallow up the capital
invested in it. He became an Akgus leader-
writer when the Argus, as a twopenny Tory print,
was gasping for breath. The Standard Bank
called him to manage its affairs just before it ex-
pired. Yet here and there he struck better
fortune—notably with the National Mutual Life
Association. He was 77 when he died, and was
the same man as he had always been—well-
informed, unapproachable, and disinclined to allow
wisdom or merit in any who opposed him. In
earlier life lie was a pungent speaker.
George S utter, grandfather of the deceased
William Henry Suttor, spent six months in Sydney
gaol, and was, besides, fined Is., for refusing to
attend a muster. The muster was the then method
of counting the population. It was ordered by
I oveaux, but as he had illegally supplanted Bligh,
Suttor declined to acknowledge his authority.
George was tried by Foveaux’s officers and found
guilty, as a matter of course. “In the present
system,” wrote the aggrieved prisoner, “an inde-
pendent-spirited man, if he lives in this colony,
must be content with poverty and misery.”
Nevertheless, George Suttor progressed very well
on his farms at Baulk ham Hills. Indeed, every-
one who set himself to make money could, it
appears, make it at that time. The settlement
was only about 20 years old, and even Suttor
wrote that many who came out as convicts were
already living at the rate of £3OOO a year. This
first Suttor, like many of his descendants, affected
literature and was something of an author. One
of his word-pictures : “ One of the worst evils of
the present time is the officers of the establishment
connecting themselves with convict women, with
■whom they think it no disgrace to openly cohabit
and appear in public as if they were their lawful
wives; and indeed these women have a much
greater influence over them than virtuous women.”
Jacob Garrard, following the remains of
unionist Talbot past the Trades’ Hall, Sydney,
the other day, reminded many of the Jacob of
30 years ago, when the workers paid their weekly
coins to keep him going as their political advocate,
lfie workers’ tribune gradually drew away from
the ranks of hard graft, blew himself out to be a
Minister of the Grown, and discovered new ways
of making himself happy. Then the workers cast
him off, and the Jacob of to-day lives chiefly by
the sewers.


%
H
\ A
f
V
m
M
W /
n
m
.
•A
V...
3
«_ _ up
ii \M
jsl •••' -!®
-- , -
” n r 3 ®. ana
•'•■ •;' ■ bi
I I fl I
■ ~,»•■sai'Bissiß&j
a
R
o
The ICgg and Poultry Business.
There is probably no branch of the Poultry Industry- that is so
universally followed as the egg business, nor is there any branch
that will bring- as quick and sure returns. Moreover, it is a
business from which an all«the-year-round source of income
can be derived by the man or woman who is engaged in the work, either largely or in
a small way. The successful Poultry Farmer rears his own laying
stock, and a considerable source of revenue is derived from the sale of tne
surplus birds. If the birds are properly handled and
marketed they will very nearly clear the cost'of their rearing, and that of the
hens kept for laying as well. Remember that THE LAYING
HEN IS THE PAYING HEN. Remember also that though you can
have no chicks without eggs, it is also clear that you’ll get no
eggs wishout chicks- Going back to the beginning, this seeming
anomaly is hardly satisfactorily accounted for, and the only
thing we can suggest is to ASK THE OLD ROOSTER. ! bearing in
mind that Anthony Horderns’ are, and always have been,
COCK O’ THE WALK.
C*phhsWhcuutchCo
Biw*uff£>tf.T.U;S.A«:
■ o
For Hatching Purposes we recommend
THE CYPHERS INCUBATOR,
The Cyphers Incubator is the outcome ot years of study of the
requirements of both natural and artificial Incubation, and the grand results obtained
from their use are clearly traceable to the fact that THE CYPHERS
INCUBATOR, comes nearest to Nature's way.
Tens of thousands of CYPHERS INCUBATORS
have been sold since they were placed on the marked some seven years ago, and
their fame has gone round the world.
CYPHERS INCUBATORS.
No. o—6o eggs .. 82/6
No. 1-120 eggs .. & 5/15/0
No. 2-220 eggs .. £7/10/-
No. 3—360 eggs . • *B/1 5/-
We shall be pleased to forward Post Free to any address oujr
pamphlet entitled, EGGS and HONEY, new edition 1905-6, full of illus-
trations and price lists, and dealing- with Tlxe Poultry Business in a
comprehensive way. Also this useful book contains Price Ivists and infor*
mation about BEE GOODS, hence THE HONEY.
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SOtiS
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PR.OVIDER.S,
And SOLE AGENTS in AUSTRALIA
for THE CYPHERS INCUBATOR.
Palace Emporium, SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
imperial
S|S :|!
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens yision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-.
chemists ft stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb.
“imperial.”
ĥ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2*lo to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £f £2,10
good as new,
JOreat factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
’WftoteS In each district. Large profits easily ir ade. Write at once for
ifrOe catalogues and our special offer , using sufficient postage.
'Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. half prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO . Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
Make Money Easily.
THIS MACHINE MADE $12.65 IN ONE DAY.
Small Investment. Quick Profit.
WE PROVE IT.
This is the MILLS BAG
PUNCHING MACHINE,
one of our 200 varieties of
coin-operated, money-mak-
ing, amusement machines,
earning daily large incomes
for their owners.
It does not matter whether
you live in a small town or a
big city, a small investment
will earn you a large, honest
income without much work
or worry. You only count
the profits. Perfectly legiti-
mate in any part of the world.
Others Make Money Fast.
An American customer in
a small town received our
Bag Puncher at 4 o’clock one
afternoon, and collected
$12.65 the next morning.
Another collected 39,000
pennies in 13 months. That
means he doubled his money
every 60 days. Just think
whatseveral machines would
do for you.
Why Not You ?
Mills machines often pay
for themselves in ten days—
-1 after that it is all profit.
_ Nearly everybody patronises
our amusement machines—men, women and children.
Nearly all our coin-operated machines can be made
to fit the coin of any country. If you have any sum
of money—62/6 or more—to invest in a sure money-
maker, don’t fail to write to-day for our Booklet
No. 36, “ How to Make Money Fast.” It’s Free.
MILLS NOVELTY CO., 11 to 23 S. Jefferson St.,
Chicago, U.S.A.
an
Beautiful Home Decorations
ħ
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOGIN ” FIiOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
« SAPOLIN» ALUMINUM ENAMEL gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate lor over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
nFI ROIIPNR
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
No. 271 C.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr" Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 C.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers*
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d.
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, all . . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
“Squidge”: No one who hangs much about
the dark corners of Melbourne can fail to notice the
brassy confidence with which the Salvarmy lassie
suddenly materialises out of murky, evil-looking
lanes and unthought-of doorways, stands right up
to a fellow, looks him, with a smile, unblushingly
in the eyes, and says, sweetly, “Please, sir, will
you buy a War Cry ? Only a penny.” A heathen
of my acquaintance says that the last War Whoop
he bought cost him half-a-sovereign. I don’t
believe that. I think that if the story is true at
all it cost a good deal more than half-a-sov. But
I have often wondered where these girls got such
a marvellous development of the accosting habit.
They didn’t grow it suddenly when Salvation hit
them in the wind. It is more probably a relic of
that Past of which they are so proud— as a past,
of course.
The Yic. Police Commission is being run
by Secretary David Barry, who did so much
work as secretary of the smeliful Butter Commis-
sion. Barry is being besieged by all sorts of wild
weird persons who want to give evidence. One
was a man who said that Truelove, the missing
manager of the St. Kilda cemetery, had sold his
burial allotments to form a cycling track, and that
men with hard faces and teeth full of chewing-gum
were racing over the bones of his deceased mother
and aunt. Two weak-minded individuals, who
imagined themselves murderers in the dim past,
also besought Barry to lend the Commissioners’
ear to their simple confidences and to arrange for
having them hanged.


Charles Heidsieek
UKIHS
EXTRA DRY
h
FINEST EXTRA Q?
BBSS—MBB
(DRESS
SHIELDS
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
■ Luxury. The higher and more refined ideals associated with Dress
demand DRESS SHIELDS as a necessity. If you want DRESS
SHIELDS that are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for—
KLE INERT’S.
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
_____ QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
makkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 10, 1905.
My Dear Arint, —
Australia and Maoriland need never go begging
for certificates of hospitality. For doing the
visiting artist, naan or woman, proud—for feeding
him, presenting him with gifts, and filling his
sensonum with pictures of beautiful places, both
countries have a huge reputation. Even lights
that failed, like Gerardy and Heermann—their
losses ran beyond four figures—sound the loud
trumpet on the theme of Australasian hospitality.
As for visiting men-o’-war, I have just seen a
letter from the Cciptain of the Panther, in which
he says, “Such kindness as my ship met with is
only possible in a new country.” So there’s some
set-off to our lack of traditions, old prisons, moated
granges, and the like.
A local “corrector” writes to say that the
London society paper that mentioned the
“ charming marriages” of the four Miss “ Boldre-
wood ” Brownes didn’t get the full strength of
the ladies of that family. Besides the four
chronicled last week, there is, or was, Mrs.
Walker, of London. She built the picture-like
place “Redleaf,” to-day inhabited by the
Harry Lassetters. Then there’s Mrs. Massie
(auntie Darley has been leading niece Massie
about lately), whose husband founded the Aus-
tralian Club, and whose son Hugh, the noted
cricketer, married one of the Thomas Dibbs girls.
Finally, there’s Miss Browne (I hope it is “ finally”
and that no other appendixer will come alongjwith
more Brownes, wed or unwed).
The Melbourne bride whose bridal gown cost
£2OO is, with her husband, still in Sydney and
entertaining rather prettily at one of our leading
hotels. A humorous incident in connection with
the wedding is the billing of the cooing pair by
St. Paul’s (Melb.) Church authorities for damage
done to church property by the horde that rushed
the temple to see the ceremony. The fame of the
lace made to order for that gown had been blown
everywhere. Bridegroom absolutely declines to
pay for damage done to seats occupied by other
than his guests. And his ultimatum sounds fit
and just.
It is not often that Equity jurisdiction has such
a hilarious case as that Hine v. Henderson, now
before the N.S.W. court. Briefly, the allegations
pro and con are that Mrs. Henderson had in her
husband, Harry St. Clair Henderson, a dashing
Lothario, who was coveted by Mrs. Hine. Mr.
Henderson lived for a while in the same house
with Mrs. Hine. According to his evidence, his
wife
did not complain at or object to his conduct ; he had
told her that Lucy Hine had money. When he went to
Gurner-street he took his things with him. Mrs. Hen-
derson sent what he did not take. He had previously
told her that Lucy Hine had money, and that if she
behaved herself she would get some of it.
But later, according to his evidence and that of
Mrs. Hine, Mrs. Henderson got into a habit of
calling on Mrs. Hine in an unfriendly way and
threatening to tear her to pieces. Finally, Mrs.
Hine alleges, she was compelled by threats and
violence to make over to Mrs. Henderson certain
property—a house, land, and some poultry at
Marrickville—and asks the Court to annul the
grant. On the other side it is denied that the gift
was in any way compelled by force or threats, and
it is sought to maintain its effect. At time of
writing the Court had not come to a decision.
The chief humor of the case is in the appearance
of the much-desired man Henderson, a little, in-
significant perky chap, who doesn’t seem worth all
this fighting.
MRS. LUCY JUNE,
who is, alleged to have
bought Mr. Hender-
son from his wife.
MR. HENDERSON,
the much desired, of
the Hine v. Header .
son Equity suit.
A friend sends me this advertisement from an
English paper:—
WANTED, Lady Companion, refined, for elderly
" couple. Comfortable home,; no salary ; oppor-
tunity of seeing how Christians can live.
The, last clause again shows what an ignorant
creature the compositor must be. What Was,
meant was “ opportunity of seeing ho,w Christians
can economise, ’’ and it must have been the. comp.
If the rest of the house-keeping was on the same
scale as the salary these people must have been
mere dry bags of bones held together by prayer.
When, Florence Lloyd first came, here about
eight years ago, with Grace Palo,tta, Decima
Moore, Maud Hobson, Clara Layton, and other
G.G.’s, she was said to be the only girl in the co.
who wasn’t in love with fellow-mummer Hope
the man she afterwards married. One fluffy dar-
ling used to affect a swoon when she was sure that
Hope’s were the nearest and likeliest arms to
carry her out. Decima Moore later married
another Hope—front name Cecil. Later still they
were divorced. Later yet she married again. The
Hopes—their real name was Leigh—had been
army men, and were in appearance regular Picca-
dilly johnnies.
Whilst on mummers and their marriages: A
private letter from London tells me that the writer
had just come across Maie Saqui—you remember
the plump and pretty Maie in J. C. Williamson’s
choruses. She is now the delighted mother of a
delightful and very new girl infant to whom Mrs.
Rupert Clarke is godmother. Miss Saqui married
a guardsman.
Nora Kerin, who was here with Musgrove’s
Shakspearian Co. and played in “Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” was to have been married on the
15th of this month to a very swell Jew. Which
reminds me that when the fair Nora was here a
local lady assured me that she was “ A Roman
Catholic Jewess.” What did she mean ?
That gay lady-killer, Mr. “Willie” Lawson, so
well known in the Commonwealth capitals—a
man who always reminded me of a presentation
copy (to a library) of a book, all gilt edges, vellum
and morocco—is still in London, and returned
Australians say that the address “Gaiety Doors”
will find him.
Which reminds me of a Sydney man who goes
on a very occasional razzle, but who razzles some-
thing awful when he does razzle. He has a special
card which he bestows on new acquaintances
when he razzles. The non-committal address
thereon is “Public Houses, New South Wales.”
Miss Magda Rossmore, the extremely thin
blonde who plays Amy Loveboy in “The J.P.,”
is a good specimen of the “ Ethel Barrymore gill,”
which type has pushed out the Gibson girl from
fashionable seaside and mountain resorts in
America. Her parted hair is rolled into a coil
above each ear, and wound into an oblong coil
down the back of the neck. The E. B, girl clings,
and droops at the shoulders, and is very frillyvous
in dress and not frivolous in demeanor.
A correspondent in Adelaide assures me that
they divide their labors (and expenses) like this in
that thrifty village :
Gov’nor Le Hunte is more or less leasing Government
House for what they call a “ dinner dance ” on Oct. 6th.
This is the idea. “ Little Red Riding- ” Hood or somebody
makes up a list of three or four dozen, and sends it round
to a few of Adelaide society entertainers, asking them to
each pick a dozen for dinner that night, and then fetch
them along to Government House for a dance. One angry
lady intimated that she would rather provide for her own
friends’ entertainment, thank you.
Dr. and Mrs. Knowles (she was Miss Lily
Titheradge) have left Newcastle and settled at
Bodalla, where the cheese comes from. A branch
of the Mort family just “ runs ” Bodalla. A man
visitor in that district meeting a Mort was asked
by the latter to come and have a drink. He
come-d. And the inviter walked behind the bar
of the hotel and helped his guest and himself.
The landlord or lady, or whoever it was that was
polishing glasses in the same enclosure, took no
notice.
“Fancy old Claude Bantock going to be
married,” say scores of Sydneysiders. They judge
his age from his get-up in the Rajah of Bhong and
other “old ” parts. He is in the neighborhood of
twenty-six years, so Methusaleh’s tail still disap-
pears round the corner a good way ahead of him.
Mr. Alfred Deakin arrives towards the end of
this week to speak at the inaugural meeting of the
Immigration League on Saturday night. He will
stop at “ Windyknowe,” Dr. Arthur’s wigwam at
Mosman.
Mr. de Groen (pronounce it de Green or you’ll
get a prod from a tuning-fork) has taken over the
Chute at Manly.
The officers of the Austrian warship Panther,
in uniforms nearly as gorgeous as those of the
M.L. tram conductors, were the objective of the
light that lies in woman’s eyes at the Wellington
(M.L.) Savage Club’s final frolic of the season in
the Town Hall. The Savages hurled at the naval
men a song specially composed in their honor, in-
cluding a verse of fearsome gutturals, which the
vocalists fondly conceived to be their guests’
native tongue. Officers looked at each other with
a wild surmise when they distinguished the word
“Vaterland,” but it is popularly believed that
Savage von Haast had to interpret the verse for
them at supper. Von Haast, one of the leading
lights of the club, is son of the late Julius von
Haast, Maoriland’s noted geologist. The admira-
ble works of von Haast and Hochstetter (who
were both Austrians) are still, after many years,
the leading books of reference on M.L, geology.'
It was von Haast who. gave names to many of the
peaks of the Southern Alps and who called the
Franz Josef Glacier, in Westland, after the pre-
sent Emperor of Austria.
Miss Alice Roosevelt, during her tour through
the Philippines, was asked in marriage by the
Sultan of Sulu. She declined for at least 18
reasons (the Sultan has already 18 wives) and
possibly for other reasons. Concerning proposals:
Awhile ago, in a mining district far inland, a
young mine rouseabout lost an arm through an
accident. A subscription for him realised £lOO.
The -wealth dazzled the youth, for he immediately
proposed to the doctor’s daughter—the belle of
the district—whom he knew only by sight.
A buxom young English lady-journalist, who
recently made a South Pacific cruise in a M.L.
schooner* returned with some diverting tales of
her experiences on, atolls and islands in the Great
feouth feea. -A,t several of the palmy islands over
which the Seddonian banner now waves she was
sui rounded by the girls and women, who almost
literally “ tickled her to death ” in their endeavors
to satisfy their curiosity as to whether her Juno-
esque figure was real, or only another papalangi
deception. She didn’t mind being pinched and
tickled by the giddy girls, she said, but when the
young men began the same game she thought it
was time to resume her European dignity. In
one island she was inquisitive enough to inquire
why all the prettiest girls in the place were work-
ing at road-making—-some scores of them—with an
equal number of youths to keep them companv.
Turned out that road-making was the penalty
of one of the popular “pleasant sins” of the
island under the old missionary-made code
of laws. The amorous old Adam dies hard in
coral lands, and the whole population does its
week or two on the roads at some time or other.
A t the same islands she was very anxious to
go out in a native canoe, fishing, but had consider-
able difficulty in getting a suitable dug-out. One
old sailor-man trader bluffly intimated that she
was somewhat “too wide” for his own little
canoe. Then when she tried the natives it turned
out that canoes were tetpu to women ; there was
an Island superstition that if a female set foot in
one the owner thereof would never again catch
any fish. Eventually, she made her fishing expe-
dition in a vessel kindly lent by a Kanaka
humorist in the absence of the rightful owner.
Even the most humorous Kanaka wouldn’t take
any risks with his own tub.
Our two morning' papers, after long years of
writing about land and pigs, have at last con-
descended to spare space “for topics of interest to
women.’’ The Herald led off by declaring a
Wednesday’s Page for Women; the Telegraph
followed with a daily dose of the same thing. One
who edits a woman’s page in a neighboring State
told me that the editor often gives her a bunch of
copy remarking, “ Here are a lot of trivialities.
They’ll do for your column.” He doesn’t mean to
be contemptuous, but like many men he thinks
women are interested only in trivialities. (No
doubt to a great extent he’s right. The other day
I saw a drawing-room of quite superior per-
sons galvanised into interest by the mention that,
“ Miss Eadith Walker’s black cats wear turquoise
necklaces.” Later the mentioner added, “Of
course the stones are imitation.”) The concession
by the Herald of even a dress-reporting column
was most grudgingly made. But the proprietors
possibly looked into the future and saw that the
clothes of all the present and future female Fair-
faxes would go unchronicled unless an “attend-
ance and dresses” column was run on the pre-
mises. Then, of course, the dazzling Carehave
to be catered for in the ’Graph. If people’s
clothes are not mentioned, how is the general pub-
lic to know that they wear any ?
How mad the Lane-Browne girls must be when
they think of the twelve hundred lovely pounds
their father had to pay the land-agents’ combine
before he could possess certain earth ! How mad
any girls would be, considering the amount of frill
there is in £l2oo—and it to go to a land-agent who
never wore a picture-hat in his life ! Miss L.-8.,
one of the stage-struck pretties who managed her
train and frillies so well before the footlights for a
while, is visiting her sister, Mrs. Pearce, at Ports-
mouth. Latter’s husband, a naval doctor, is prac-
tising there. A Sydney-sider tells, with a three-
by-six cynical smile, that, when she left Ports-
mouth, Mrs. (another Sydney citizeness,
handsome, and bent on having a good time) had
arrived at the famous dockyard, and had spent
days looking around for pound-a-week lodgings
for her nurse and child. She herself, without
encumbrance, would stay at a gorgeous hotel.
Ormond House, where the first Children’s Court
was held, is an historic mansion. Some 80 years
ago it was built by Robert Cooper, of the Brisbane
distillery, Parramatta-street, who named it Juni-
per Hall. In the early thirties it was occupied by
Attorney-General Kinchela, who re-named it
Ormond House. On Mr. Kinchela vacating, Mr.
Cooper, junr., went there, and the Coopers occu-
pied it for some years. Mrs. Dunsmore, widow of
an old-time solicitor, succeeded them. Then it
became the Deaf and Dumb and Blind Institu-
tion, and now it is the “ home ” where the ten-
year-old bushranger is supposed to be “reformed,”
but as he promptly escapes out of the window and
goes away to play in the gutter down at Redfern
his reformation is making slow progress.
Mr. and Mrs. Pope, of Adelaide, are enter-
taining the sacred college immensely at the
Australia, but the Fanshawes are missed. They
are beloved by gaitered ones. The Admiral’s
eldest daughter is married to an English vicar.
The Jack Wants, who presently start for a long
tour that will take in India, are atMedlow Hydro.
At time of writing Pilcher, K.C., and the Walter
Marks were also there. Miss Irene Marks is
another who will go Indiawards in time for the
Durbar.
Very few persons go to the Cup from here this
year. Interest in the Melbourne Horse-Week
seems to be on the wane. A famous dress
designer knows of one lady who has had
19 gowns made for the week, but she
won’t disclose the name of this lavish frocker.
The Spencer Bruntons, and their nieces the
King girls, Dr. and Mrs. Gledden, of College-
street, a large contingent of Foys and the
Oldhams, of “Carthona,” are packing their grips
for the Great Neigh. Last named people are
going to motor South in some new and wonderful
auto of 1000-angel power. Talking of “ Car-
thona. It is the only house I know of that has
the distinction of being spooked. It is haunted
by “a furiously-driven hansom.” Mrs. Willie
Mitchell, when she lived there, used to hear the
Thing gallop and roll around the paths, and then
splash into the sea. The Harry Rickards and
Chipmans, former residents, heard it; in fact, it
ran over them, or they ran through it, but they
couldn’t distinguish the fare. Talking of Mrs.
Willie Mitchell, she is a great success in Indian
society, a Returned tells me. She is handsome as
ever, but the hot sun has turned her once dark
hair to amber.
At Rosehill races on Saturday Mr. Crick was
the most gazed-at person as he strolled around
with Mr. Willie Hill (of Hill, Clark and Co.)
hanging on to his coat-lapel. And a cool atmo-
sphere followed them.
The news of Lady Rawson’s relapse into bad
health and the consequent postponement of her
return to Sydney, has been received locally with
more concern than is usually given to the fortunes
of vice-regals. The Rawsons are genuinely popular
in N.S. Wales.
An obituary notice in Monday’s newspapers
recalls a notable George-street (Sydney) trades-
man, and a trade now almost unknown. The
°f Mrs. Margaret Henderson, relict
of Thomas Henderson, of Homebush, and “for-
merly widow of Archibald Thomson, of Sydney.”
Half a century ago and over Mr. Thomson was
described as a snuff manufacturer, of 521 George-
street, a few doors south of the old Golden Gate
Inn. The shelves of his large shop were filled
with canisters of snuff, “Irish Blackguard,”
“High Toast,’’ “Colonial Lundy Foot,” and
other choice mixtures. As snuff? went out of
fashion, the widow Thomson: merged into tobacco,
and continued the business? until the early Ws.
The odor of sanctity pervades Sydney. The
Hotel Metropole is as good as consecrated. It is
dadoed and frescoed and friezed with bishops and
archbishops and arch-parsons. All here to discuss
the cussing in the Athanasian Creed. Up at St.
Andrew’s they argue on theology; at the hotel
they talk by the hour on the why-shouldn’t-
ness of their going to the theatre and the
drinking of whisky. And they end by
doing' neither. At a local club a pagan
survival and an Archbishop were dining at the
same table, and the survival began to talk pagan
talk to the divine. The latter froze, and the
survival afterwards told his friends “when he
got up you might have knocked me down with
my cutlet-bone. The bishop part of him had been
under the table all the time.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 9, 1905.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A Gippsland marriage of special interest was
that of Miss Minna Bourke —daughter of the jolly
Irishwoman who attributes most of her wealth to
a high-class breed of pigs on her Flynn’s Creek
run—to Dr. F. U. O’Sullivan, a Melbourne medico
of champion chest measurement. All Gippsland
turned out to see the joining of hands by the
Bishop of Sale and a phalanx of holy fathers.
The Bourkes have money and the O’Sullivan a pro-
mising practice in the pram my suburb of Albert
Park. And, on the whole, there is nothing like
a good prammy suburb for a doctor. There may
not be many female operations, but the filling
of the cradle and the inevitable measles, whoop-
ing-cough and so on keep the medical gig steadily
gigging.
The correspondent who sent you that yarn of
September 7 about Lady Northcote and her dog
should be boiled in ink, or grilled on files, or sub-
jected to whatever punishment befits the contri-
butor who deceives the editor. The vice-regal
party having just returned from Westralia, I
ascertained from one of the staff that it’s plain
fabrication from head to tail. And Lady N.
doesn’t deserve to be made the victim of malicious
fictions.
Hon. M. Scott is at present a joke to swaggah
Royal Melbourne Golfers by reason of being fined
at the City Court for driving his neddy on the
wrong side of the road the Other day. His driving
on the links is an irreproachable performance.
Caddies gasp at it. Consequently the fine for
doing a false drive, by a Bench that didn’t seem to
consider the gentleman’s English clothes, or his
honorable, or his bleat, or his golf, came as a sort
of shock.
Girls hereabouts —the younger sort—are crazy
for tiffin sprees, only the single and spry being
eligible. One of the Cliveden chicks last week
took the head of the table as a trial hostess.
Mommer, in such cases, is an absentee, and the
idea is to give the girls likely to be snapped up in
matrimony a chance to dispense hospitable cheer
with the right amount of frill and a knowledge of
the exact time to be allotted each course. Some
have a superstitious horror of any such prepara-
tions which presume the imminence of matri-
mony. They quote instances of the Glory
Box being packed and furnished long
before any man is in sight—and the rust and
the moths consuming its trousseau contents
through a long grey spinsterhood. But so far from
this being the usual thing, the girl of the day is
largely disposed to rush her matrimonial chance
without much more than the proverbial stitch to
her back—trusting to luck and an impromptu
needle to get together a trousseau somehow. The
same way with matron r&les. The girl who can’t
see the vaguest hope of a wooer, even in her
dreams, has a fear of Fate playing tricks should
she get sitting at the head of a banquet board and
playing married airs there.
Bananaland lost its one social potentate a week
or two ago when Miss Muriel Rich suddenly took
it into her cameo head to leave for the Cold
Country. Miss Rich spent last summer in this
State, and took the cake for smartness and go.
She came labelled “a Brisbane beauty,’’ and
some locals objected to the label. By and
bye, perhaps, they’ll have a department to grade
and brand beauties, and then these awkward con-
troversies will not rage.
The Tasmanian vice-regals are booked for early
Cup festivities. The Strickland couple did the
carnival last year, the Lady Edeline being chiefly
memorable for a long neck and some queer gems
built up in a wall around it; also for her total lack
of Edeline-like languishments.
Mrs. Tom Smith and her two daughters sail
back to these parts in a month, arriving just to-
the rear of the Cup.
One Melb. optician pushes the pince-nez trade,
even among those whose eyes are all right, with an
alluring poster of a girl looking at you wickedly
through gold-rimmed glasses. Many a suburban
miss studies the picture thoughtfully and thinks
it out that if she only had pince-nez she might
look j ust as chic and saucy, and has a longing to
go straight away and have her bridge of tears-
fitted with panes.
Mrs. Tobin, a wealthy widow roosting »t
Menzies’, is gradually issuing from the retirement
that follows grief, and trailing her chiffons in the'
sight of the world again. She has a daughter on
the brink of her debut. At least she has been out-
some, but is to see more of the light of the world-
presently. The Tobin coins were originally
amassed by careful “ Tommy ” Monahan—one of
the few thrifty Irishmen who made a fortune in
the teething days of this town. Another was-
“ Micky” Dawson, the late father-in-law of the
Fitz Gibbon.
Last week the Holy City turned out to a brace
of shivoos promoted in glory of the Northcotes’
visit. The snail populace were not so excited at
the coming of the G.-G. and his set of caddies as
at the bursting into prominence of the reticent
lady of their own Government House. The Le
Huntes are not fashionable whirlers. Himself
likes being about in a boxer and a sac suit. The
dame loves her own hearth and a meal without
flunkeys. She likes stretching for the toast and!
pouring out hubby’s second cup of tannin without
aid.
The dissatisfaction that arises when bazaar-
takings come to be totted up has given a few
hard-thinkers a notion. It is to institute cash-
registers at all the stalls. The idea so far has not


It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.
Valaze-A Scientific, Medicinal Skin Food!
Valaze comes to you in the form of a dainty preparation
to be applied to the skin. It is immediately absorbed—
goes straight into the pores—acts as a tonic and brings
nothing but beauty and charm to the skin. We can pro-
duce hundreds of testimonials from ladies who have been
benefited by Valaze. MissM. L. Vines, Singleton, N.S.W..
writes : Ido not think I could find words to express
my pleasure of Valaze as a Skin Food. It has made a vast
difference in my complexion, all the dark blemishes
entirely disappearing after a few applications. Will you
at yopr earliest convenience send me another jar?’'
Puce 3s. 6d. and 6s. ; Posted 6d. extra. Valaze Soap 2s.
(lasts six months); Valaze Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. 6d.
L aC ra et aZe ,? k , mTonic > mosfc Coolin S- and refreshing
3s. 6d. bottle; Valaze Face Powder 2s. box (3 tints) to
dust on the face. Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street,
Melbourne. Mention this paper and receive “ Guide to
Beauty —Free! *
John Richard Talbot, dead at Sydney, the
other day, aged 73, was a pioneer of N.S. Wales
Unionism. He was a native of England by
trade an ironmoulder, and founder of the iron-
moulders Union, which for years he represented
on the old Trades and Labor Council. He was
several times president of the council, and was a
trustee of Sydney Trades Hall ever since its
establishment m 1884.
“ O’F." : A Melbourne cricketer, who
went with his club to play against some of the
inmates of Yarra Bend Asylum on a recent Satur-
day, tells me that several of the lunatics wanted to
secede from the Commonwealth. There seems to
be less care taken m Sydney to ensure confinement
in such sad cases.
From Itching and Bleeding Eczema
Pain Terrible —Body and Face
Covered with Sores Doctors and
Medicines Failed.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
CURE BY CUTICURA
“ No tongue can tell how I suffered for
five years with itching and bleeding ec-
zema, until I was cured by the Cuticura
Remedies, and I am so grateful I want the
world to know, for what helped me will
help others. My body and face were cov-
ered with sores. One day it would seem
to be better, and then break out again
with the most terrible pain and itching. I
have been sick several times, but never
in my life did I experience such awful
suffering as with this eczema. I had
made up my mind that death was near at
hand, and I longed for that time when
I would be at rest. I had tried many dif-
ferent doctors and medicines without suc-
cess, and my mother brought me the
Cuticura Remedies, insisting that I try
them. I began to feel better after the
first bath with Cuticura Soap, and one
application of Cuticura Ointment. I con-
tinued with the Soap and Ointment, and
have taken four bottles of Cuticura Re-
solvent, and consider myself well. Any
person having any doubt about this won-
derful cure by the Cuticura Remedies
can write to my address. Mrs. Altie
Btson, Bellevue, Mich.”
ITCHING ECZEMA
And All Other Itching and Scaly
Eruptions Cured by Cuticura.
The agonizing itching and burning of
the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of scalp, as in scalled head,
from infancy to age; all demand a
remedy of almost superhuman virtues
to successfully cope with them. That
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are
such stands proven beyond all doubt.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
•World. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Eue de
la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props.
«S~Send for “ How to Cure Eczema." Mailed Free.
Civilisation largely consists of moving consider-
able masses of material from one place to another, and
the more easily, cheaply and'expeditiously it is done the
higher the grade of civilisation. According to the report
of A. E. Leplastrier, of 64 Pitt-street, Sydney, the Com-
monwealth is becoming more civilised every week, as he
has equipped several tramways with rai's and rolling
stock, such as steel mining - cars, waggons and locomotives,
the latter of both single and compound type. A number
of his Improved “ Robey ” portable and traction engines
have been introduced, and his fixed engines of the same
make, threshing - machines and centrifugal pumps have
been largely sold within the Commonwealth. The use of
machinery is a matter of education, and the Australian is
getting rapidly educated by Mr. Leplastrier. Any citizen
who requires light on how to shift anything should drop
a note to him at his address, and he will place a practical
illustrated scheme before that citizen by return mail.*
Public Notice.
The Permanent Trustee Co.
of New South Wales, Limited.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
'THE EIGHTEENTH ORDINARY GENERAL MEET-
ING of the Members will be held in the Roval
Exchange on MONDAY, 23rd OCTOBER, 1905, at noon.
Business:
To Receive Reports and Balance Sheet to 30th September
1905.
To Elect one Director in place of J. H. Storey, Esq., who
retires (under Clause 77 of the Articles of Association)
and who offers himself for re-election.
To Elect Two Auditors in place of Messrs. W. Clarke and
F. Phillips, who retire, but are eligible for, and seek
re-election.
To consider any other business of which due notice shall
have been given in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
Blackstone Chambers,
17 O’Connell-street, Sydney.
10th October, 1905.
Missing Friends.
K ATE , SMITH, of Falkirk, Scotland, fori
merly Nurse in Sydney, N.S.W about
xoos and wife of Mr. Jack Cango.late3
Orawfordsburn, Ireland. Anybody knowing her
whereabouts please communicate with S
JOHN M. HARLEY,
M'Callum Terrace, Ealkirk
________ SCOTLAND.
fIOUNTCnSTLE’S,
hattbbr.
NEW ADDRESS
305 Georg? St., Sydpey.
GENT’S GOOD HATS.
Amusements.
:RITE R I ON TH EATRE,
C" ' I 'v C ° " THEATRE, SYDNEY*
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
the brough-flemming COMEDY CO.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the Ever-Popular Farcical Comedy,
NOIBE.
Prices as Usual. Day Sale a the
Box Plan at Elvv’s.
White Rose.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 14,
ALFRED DAMPIER,
in the Australian Drama,
THE BUSH KINO,
THE LEAP FOR LIFE.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee .. .. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
A WOMAN OF PLEASURE,
„^, l '‘ terpreU ‘ d b - v WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
SAT. EVENING NEXT, OCT. 14, THUNDERBOLT.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
Mr. WILLIAMSON,
by Arrangement with Messrs. Meynell and Gunn, presents
THE LONDON STRAND COMEDY COMPANY,
in the Farcical Comedy,
THE J.P.
Box Plan at Paling’s. UST PRICES AS USUAL.
TIVOLI THEA T R E, SYDN E Y.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of HILL and WHITAKER, Musicians,
Vocalists, Banjo Soloists, Banjo and Harp Duettists.
Continued Success of LES BRUNIN, Billiardistes Modernes.
Brilliant & Artistic Success of DIAMOND & BEATRICE.
Everybody’s Favorite Comedian, MR. TOM DAWSON.
A Wonderful, Novel, and Brilliant Speciality, PAYEN,
L’Enigniatique Pierrot Gynmaste.
Miss BELLA PERMAN. Miss MAUD PERMAN.
LES WARTON. FRIEDA NIEMANN. FANNY POWERS.
■yiEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of FOR ENGLAND.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 14,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Combination of
Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in the New
Naval and Military Drama,
A SAILOR’S KNOT.
&3T PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Business Manager, Mr. C. SIMONSENS.
PRINCESS’S
Lessee
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
.. .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE DARLING OF THE GODS
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 14,
MISS MAUD JEFFRIES and MR. JULIUS KNIGHT ir
DAVY GARRICK.
Preceded Each Evening by Gilbert’s Masterpiece,
COMEDY AND TRAGEDY.
Plan Allan’s. MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EIGHTH WEEK and LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
Mr. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE CINGALEE,
the Latest Daly Theatre Success.
13" FRESH NOVELTIES WEEKLY. “SS
Plan at Allan’s.
MATINEE, WEDNESDAY!
THEN/EUM HALL, MELB OU R N
1 Under the Direction of J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Commencing SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14, including
DAILY MATINEES,
Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s Newly-Constructed
810-TABLEAU
AND
ALL-STAR PICTURE SHOW.
Box Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & Grand. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
“ FRIKTCBS COURT,”
MELBOURNE.
General Manager A. L. BAIRD.
§OT ADMISSION 6d ; CHILDREN 3d,
2.30 to 11 p.m.
LATEST SENSATIONS !
NOVEL ATTRACTIONS !
EXCITING PASTIME I
CONSTANT CHANGES.
Cafe Chantant. Japanese Tea-House.
FI TZ G E RALD’S CIRCUS BUILDING,
MELBOURNE.
A WONDERFUL RACING SEASON’S ATTRACTION!
OPENING— SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21.
ROENI BROTHERS’ GIGANTIC CIRCUS
AND
MENACERIE.
EVERYTHING NEW, BRIGHT, AND UP-TO-DATE.
140 Horses and Ponies.
Over 100 Performing Artists—Animal and Human.
New Costumes. New and Elegant Appointments.
Dazzling and Daring Feats of Horsemanship.
The Most Legitimate Circus Travelling the Commonwealth.
SELDOM EQUALLED. NEVER EXCELLED.
Opening CAULFIELD CUP NIGHT, SATURDAY, OCT. 21.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS,
AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
OPERA HO USE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Great Change of Programme by
LE ROY, TALMA, BOSEO, World’s Monarchs of Magic,
Greatest Illusionists od Earth.
RYDER SLONE, Vocal Character Comedian.
JACKSON FAMILY, Leading Musicians.
BOY GLEN, Juveline Raconteur.
Plan at Allan’s. m' PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
met with any vociferous enthusiasm, In the
■ Sainted City recently the same thing was sug-
gested, and a shoal of snortful letters to the press
was the result. “ Are we untrustworthy—we who
work for charity ? ” asked one. Well, in this State
all sorts work for charity. It’s a good game,
and a safe wicket to be on for the
social hustler. It must be so, too, in
the Sainted City. And few women are
good mathematicians outside the bridge-scores.
Neither have they trouser-pockets for the safe
keeping of cash. Their coins are stored in a
swing-bag that is in constant play and often has a
split in the side. Somehow or other the cash
leaks, and the takings of the best bazaar are a dis-
appointment. Under the circumstances, the cash
register would prove a blessing to many a “ good
cause.”
Dame Forrest has bestowed a fresh young niece
in the teens on local sassiety. That’s something
new for the fussy Westralian to play with. As
she took the opportunity of keeping the young
relative well before the Northcote gaze when the
vessel rolled drunltenly in the Australian Bight,
the new Miss will be on nodding terms with their
Exes., and quite chummy with the staff. Captain
Balmain, by the way, has rejoined the G.-G. team
with a new stripe, and all the latest shapes in
collars and sizes in hats.
One of the foremost of the Marshall-Hall Con-
servatorium singers suddenly throws up the plat-
form career for the hymeneal sacrifice. Miss
Annie Davidson, daughter of the Inspector-
General of Public Works, and chief star of the
Albert-street aviary, quietly faces the ecclesiastical
joiner next week with a young party named
Arthur Phillips—a member of an intellectual
Jewish family. The bride elect was the hardest
grafter the Professor ever trained. She started
years ago with small pretensions of voice, but lots
of energy and confidence. She worked up a fine
mezzo-soprano range with a fair quantity of
dramatic power. Now she commits matrimony
and sinks her ambition.
Miss Lesly Madden beats all the fancy coon-
chirpers with her cute little warbles, some of them
—do ye inoind ?—actually owning a trace of blar-
ney or a hint of brogue. (By the way, papa
Waxcellency grows brogueyin his grey years.) At
a Myoora sort of pot-pourri shivoo, the other
night, where the Harpers were hosting it, the
plumphope of the Waxcellency gave “ The Little
Irish Girl a quaint and slyly humorous lilt that
took the swagger flock immensely. The Madden
girls are such heavy poseuses that any little con-
cession towards a wink or a nudge usually breaks
up the crowd.
The bazaar for the association of Vic. Penelopes
made a fine haul—close on £5OO being realised.
This comes of displaying the social exotic in an
apron. It delights the heart of the simple, snob-
bish marm to be served with a cosy or a comforter
or a worthless pair of booties by a top-notoher in
a white apron and a French toque.
Miss Murphy, a member of a moneyed Arma-
dale family which has had a series of misfortunes
within the last two years, was in the midst of
fittings for some superb Cup chiffons on Thursday,
and her death and burial were announced on
Monday. The deceased was a tall, notable figure
who, for years, has been one of the rich frockers
at all the Fleinington meetings. This year, she
intended making an extra-special dash in the
costliest finery of the hour. She was in magnifi-
cent health on Thursday, took a chill that even-
mg, and died of a sharp,, sudden attack of pneu-
monia on Saturday.
Miss Louisa Smith, the much-accomplished
dypgM o1 ’ of ££, comes forth in white debut
chiffons at the Mayoral dance this Tuesday
(10th). She is a chick of more than ordinary
attainments ; has a piano gift of no mean order, a
singing voice, a knack of speaking French, a neat
arm at fencing, a good idea of elocuting, and a
way of sitting a hack few women can boast. A
while ago, when her honeyed tresses were a-hang-
mg down her back, the sight of her perched cosily
on a chestnut mount cantering along Alexandra
Avenue was a treat.
The persuasiveness of the counter-jumper came
up for discussion in a recent law suit. The gentle
sinner in this case had bought a blouse-length or
a dream-wrapper, for which her spouse refused to
pay. She pleaded that the shopman had thrust
the article upon her—had almost compelled her to
take it. And there’s something in the story. The
wisest She sometimes falls before such cajolery at
the chiffon counter. The unnecessary length of
yellow brocade going for a song comes into her
possession, and for weeks the thing is a haunting
nightmare, seeing that she never wears yellow,
and, whether or no, it’s too late in the season to
have it made up. “Sell to a customer what she
does not want—she’ll buy what she does want any-
how,” is stated on good authority to be the rule of
conduct for the smart shopman. The tragedies of
the susceptible shopper have yet to be written.
One of these days an impressionable young person
will suicide by reason of a costly purchase
prompted by a haberdashery Chesterfield.
A rakish youth, whose Mommer was to have been
married a second time very soon, advanced a claim
Upon his future Popper by running up bills in his
name. This so incensed the bridegroom-elect that
he now vetoes the engagement and there’s another
widow (not altogether inconsolable) on the market.
Three eligible society johnnies have loved and
ridden off to other climes this season, and left a
few of the smartest chicks looking very sorry.
Baritone Haigh Jaekson and his large Spanish-
looking wife start back for Europe in a few weeks
Haigh having finished his term with J. c!
Williamson, and the dame her season at the Coni
servatorium. The baritone will not leave any
girleens weeping. He had no thrillfulness in his
voice or his art, and the wretched fact of his
domestic felicity was a bar to any sympathetic or
tragic interest on the part of theatre-going
femininity.
Young Percy Grainger is being patted on his
pale gold locks by more than one exalted feminine
just now. At latest he had been carried off to
Dunrobin Castle by the Duchess of Sutherland.
How much better it is to be a pretty boy per-
former than a girl ditto ! The latter only arouses
envy and other yellow-jaundiced emotions among
her own sex, and at the best silent and well con-
cealed admiration from the other. Whereas a boy
may be clasped to the bosom of the hysterical
aristocracy and borne away to the moated grange
without the interference of a husband or a brother.
A he-artist has all the best of it, because the social
glorification of musical talent is women’s business.
Miss Tittell Brune has been having a high old
time on a Bananaland station. She has not been
guesting it at Justice Noel’s, as the papers made
out, but with Mr. and Mrs. Gore, who own
Yandilla, a great old cattle run. The Yank
writes glowfully of long rides at the peep of dawn
and fine canters at dewy eve, of the tropical
scenes, the dusky foliage, and the operatic arias of
golden-throated birds.
In the heart of one grey young-old Federalist, I
hear, Love is singing a spring song. He has taken
none of his political friends into his confidence,
but frequent absences from the House, and fre-
quent appearances in public with a girl—a grown-
up girl—are taken to indicate a re-marriage in the
near future.
Before they boarded the India last week the
Misses Russell were entertained at a series of fare-
well parties, including a tiffin spread at South-
dean, Toorak, given by Miss Jean Turnbull. The
Russell girleens went off with creaking dress-
boxes and a determination to enjoy a rattling good
time.
Worthington, I hear, will soon bring the white
hair of his blameful life out of gaol. The fascin-
ating humbug has been wilting away in prisqn,
and release is said to be necessary to save his life.
By the way, what explanation is there for the
glamor white hair exercises on women folk ? The
most successful Lothario is the one who flies the
white flag aloft. Worthington is only one of a
score of instances I could recall.
Mrs. Thompson, the plucky motoriste who was
the one skirted competitor in the last Dunlop
Reliability Test, sends great accounts of motor
doings from Paris. She and her husband are
touring Europe on their own little mote, as George
Huntley would have said.
I was told this yarn, by a returned tripper, of a
gay Federalist now in London. The Federalist
was asked to lunch by the tripper, to meet a really
pretty woman. It was just a party of three.
“ And,” says the tripper, plaintively, “before the
soup was finished I had to face a corn or speak.
So I spoke. ‘ Pardon me, that’s my foot you are
squeezing, ’ I whispered. And after that all was
comfort.”
Consul Bosschart, the little foreigner with the
yard-broom moustaches and whirlwind manners,
lectured on_ the subject of his native heath at a
Dante Society corroboree the other night, the
Cliveden dowager (and suite) giving semi-official
countenance to the long travel talk. The Nether-
lands Consul is the promptest synipathiser and
rejoicer in Australia. In his anxiety to be first in
with the appropriate sentiment, he dashes it off
anywhere. Strange stories are told of his habit of
leaping into the nearest ink on hearing of a birth,
death, divorce, or any other sudden happening
that calls for friendly comment.
Epileptic interests are to be further assisted by
means of a dramatic show, about which a number
of amateur mummers are busying themselves just
now. Mrs. Fred Payne, who took the matter in
hand, has sold an amount of pasteboards for an
attempt at “ Lady Huntworth’s Experiment.” A
daughter of Barrister Purves is to appear in the
cast with other tony young things.
The Gyles Turners had a flock of friends to re-
joice with them over their golden wedding cele-
bration. The grey and learned couple are models
of that propriety which “lives happy ever after.”
They are quoted as leading the perfect matri-
monial life, and growing old gracefully together.
Real 18-carat golden weddings are as rare as
truth. If a couple have the disposition to live in
sympathy and be happy though married, one of
them is certain to be drawn off to the Better
Land within half a century. Some others find a
difficulty in living 50 days, much less years to-
gether, happily linked. And where the mutual-
toleration habit is laboriously acquired in the
course of 50 months, it mostly happens that the
burden of toleration presses very hard on one of
the parties. Hie happiness of the “happy pair”
is unequally divided.
Last week a well-known building in Melbourne
was the scene of much giggling, screaming, and
stampeding on the part of thousands of girls. A
German commercial traveller had put a “free
chocolate” advertisement in the daily papers.
Between the hours of twelve and two the work
and the loaf girls of Melbourne took the adver-
tiser at his word, and swarmed up the stairs in
search of the chocolate office. Later on in the day
staid female faces were suffused with blushes and
injured dignity when the humorous lift-attendant
announced “ The chocolate floor, ladies,” to a lift
full of the cunning gentle sex, who had given a
dressmaker’s name and address to hide the object
of their visit. One dame, more strategic than the
rest, left the lift a floor higher up, and climbed
down to her sweetmeats.
It is wonderful how anything offered gratis
will draw people. The average man, I’ve heard
will take ss. worth of trouble to get a “free’’
drink worth 3d.; the average woman certainly
Miss Margaret Baskerville, the industrious
Melbourne sculptor whose clay modelling and
plaster busts were promises of good things is
hard at chisel work in the Cold Country. Her
capacity for taking pains evidently captured the
eye of Prof. Lauteri, for news comes of his high
opinion of her work.
Yours,
TRYPHENA.
The most humorous contribution to the
immigration discussion during the last week or so
has been the wail of the Launceston Examiner that
Tasmania should advertise for agricultural settlers
as Canada does. Fancy a State which, for over
40 years, has been exporting its own agricultural
population because it hasn’t the courage to break
up its big estates and supply its own people with
land, advertising for immigrants ! France, with
no big landlords, and with 190 persons on every
square mile, attracts population from outside,
while Tasmania, with less than seven persons to
the square mile, can’t find land and work for its
own inhabitants.
The embezzlement of “lodge” funds is a
fashionable Melbourne industry these times. The
latest performer has pleaded guilty to a long series
of frauds, worked on the Order of the Sons of
Temperance in ways that would have been dis-
covered years ago by a proper system of checking
the accounts. Members who had drawn nothing
from the funds were debited with various sums by
their industrious secretary, whose returns were
duly furnished with forged signatures of auditors,
treasurer, and Grand High Cockalorum if neces-
sary- The secretary had a peaceful prosperous
time until a new auditor happened, and this in-
opportune teetotaller found that his name was on
the books for some sick pay which he had never
received. _ Thus the lamp of revelation was lighted
and the sins of the Son of Temperance came home
to roost.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
onlv Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples-
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished,
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction;
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. PBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
ħ
GrO TO EC hiT iTj-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY*
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Li9ts Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Instructive figures furnished to a Common-
wealth officer by the Clutterbuck firm, South Aus-
tralia : Harvesting machines imported three years
ago, 40 or 41; two years ago, 70 or 75 ; last year,
450 to 470.
“ The Sphinx ” : What has become of the
thousands of florins which were paid as deposits
into the proposed N.S.W. Labor daily newspaper
fund ? Paid in mine on J uly 11, 1903, more than
two years ago, and have heard nothing since.
Dr. Maloney's proposal to fine absent
members of the Reps. £1 for each sitting they
miss fell like a land-agent’s tombstone on Reid,
Bruce Smith, and others who put their private
business first and the affairs of the country a bad
second.
The Bulletin would suggest that when
the various N.S.W. land agents have paid over
the bribes to the State, the money should be passed
into the Public Debt sinking-fund, which is in
rather a hard-up condition just now, and badly
wants all the assistance it can get.
A few weeks back Queensland Agent-
General Tozer libelled this country in his natural
style. Then Premier Morgan said Tozer’s screw
was to be revised from January, and the Tozer
forthwith found great virtues in the Queensland
Laud Act, and realised the desirability of Britons
immigrating hither.
Daglish, of Westralia, gave up the Premier-
ship some time ago after a year of incompetence
and failure. Then he gave up the leadership of
the Labor party. Now he gives up all connection
with the party, and is going to run his election
“on his own.” Barring his constituency and his
clothes, there isn’t much left for Daglish to give
up now.
Well said by a Northern Rivers (N.S.W.)
farmer who is leaving Australia (foolishly in all
probability) for S. America, that the Common-
wealth should see to emigration before it worries
about immigration. To caulk up the leaks through
which citizens escape from Australia would mean
a large and eminently desirable increase in the
Australian population.
Dr. Maclaurin told N.S. Wales’ House of
Landlords and Guinea Pigs the other evening
that “the land had been sold and paid for, and
all this talk about breaking up estates and
increasing the land-tax was talk of a most dis-
honest character.” It recalls the time when the
shocked planters used to ask—“ Didn’t we buy
the nigger’s mother and pay for her ? ”
Why not be logical? Under the N.S.W.
Liquor Bill a local option poll is to be invalid un-
less 50 per cent, of the electors on the roll record
their votes. Therefore, why not make a Parlia-
mentary election invalid, and leave the constitu-
ency without a representative during the term of
that Parliament, unless 50 per cent, of the electors
go to the poll ? The rule seems to work as well one
way as the other.
“Hiphen”: After exhaustive search
througli the archives of history, I have elicited the
fact that Pharaoh of Egypt and Bent of Victoria
are the only two rulers who have run brickworks.
(Bent hasn’t run any brickworks yet.—Ed. B.)
The only difference between the two great poten-
tates is that, while Pharaoh ran his brickworks
with Jewish labor, Bent promised to develop his
without Jewish capital.
Probably Booth’s primary object in offer-
ing to export 5000 families to Australia was to
secure for the Salv’army a heavy payment of head
money as commission. That, at any rate, was the
basis of an arrangement he proposed to make
with the Westralian Government in 1903. The
bonus in that case was to be £3 for married men
and £5 for families of five, and was to become
payable after the immigrants had remained for six
months on the land kindly provided by a paternal
Government.
When John See was Premier of N.S.W.,
and another North Coast member, John Perry, a
member of his Cabinet, a regulation was gazetted
exempting maize from payment of wharfage rates
on arrival at Sydney—a considerable concession to
the farmers of the northern rivers. Now that
See and Perry are out of power, the Harbor
Trust has managed to get the exemption on the
-northern cocky’s product removed, and the
•revenue is a prospective gainer of £3OOO a year in
-consequence.
A Sydney Evening News description of
;the Pilliga scrub—the only place in N.S.W.
which Premier Carruthers reckoned he could find
ito put immigrants on :
As to water, unless alter heavy rain, there is absolutely
•none after .leaving Baradine Creek until the Namoi is
-reached, or from Coonabarabran to the same river. The
•country is for the most part broken and rugged, and
where stony ranges and deep gullies are not the rule, the
■prevailing scenery consists of sand and pme scrub.
'What grass there -is is rough and coarse, and hears as vile
a, seed as is to he found in Australia.
And much more to the same effect. Sydney
Telegraph defended the giving of this land to
Booth’s immigrants because, though it had long
been open to selection, no N.S.W. men were
energetic enough to take it up. Well, the N.S.W.
men know it and the Boothites don’t, if these
weird characters ever come to Australia, and,
having come, if they ever reach Pilliga, they will
probably give up in despair and pawn the big
drum for victuals.
Bruce Smith gives us warning. He quotes
a Jap. statesman as saying our Immigration
Restriction Act has deeply hurt the national pride
of Japan, and that his people would sooner fight
Australia and America on the exclusion question
than fight Russia on the territorial question. And
Bruce Smith, who loveth not battle lest his beau-
tiful pot-hat should be bashed, urges us to back
down and give Northern Australia to the brown
thief for the sake of peace. He calls this “inter-
national courtesy.”
Cabled concerning Colonel M‘Mahon’s
“ mission ” for demarcating the frontier between
Persian and Afghan Siestan, that “considerable
delay and obstruction occurred in Persian Siestan
at tne outset. Anti-British riots were organised,
but they failed. Flogging the ringleaders, in-
cluding the majority of the Russian agents, im-
pressed and astonished the Persians.” Probable
enough—but what sort of a scorching blast of in-
dignation would have swept along the wires had
the Russians done the flogging !
On October 4, Sydney Telegraph printed
seven columns by Reginald Black denouncing
N.S.W. land laws —every column shrieking with a
thousand tongues for a heavy graduated land-tax.
Strange to say, on that point Mr. Black’s pen
was absolutely silent. But Mr. Black did plead
with “ owners of large estates ” to cut them up —
“if merely from a patriotic motive .” This from a
retired bank inspector ! After that, Mr. Black
should take a boat and go down Sydney harbor
preaching Christianity to the sharks.
The ‘ ‘ free selectors ” of the Whipstick
(Bendigo) are an instructive lesson in the “ go on
the land” policy as preached by the Victorian
Lands Department. Those men selected in 20-
acre blocks three years ago. The department
carefully collected a survey fee with each applica-
tion, and forthwith slept on the matter. Now the
selectors are clamoring for the Land Board to
hatch out some scheme to let them have posses-
sion, but so far the only satisfaction to be got is
the pathetically futile printed notification that
their letters have been received.
COLORED LABOR IN THE VINEYARD..
The Scotehbvterian General Assembly is horrified to
think that the action of the Australian Government in de-
porting Kanakas may result in many highly Christianised
black brethren being packed off to the savage lands. THE
BULLETIN suspects that a cautious Scotchbyterian dread
of a new cheap competitor in the missionary field is at
the back of this.
CONVERTED COON (to white missionary): "Do
not weep for me, my brother, do not repine.
I shall turn missionary in my native land;
and while I labor in the vineyard suppose
you take a hand in the cane-field ?”
The Tariff Commission is getting some
prime suggestions from the representatives of the
foreign-owned mines in Westralia. Every man of
them wants the duty on mining machinery either
abolished or reduced 1 ‘ in the interests of the mining
industry.” Much the same crowd used to say the
same thing in Victoria; but Victoria treated the
suggestion with as much disrespect as it deserved.
And the result is that, building up machinery-
factories alongside the mines, Victoria can pay
dividends on under 3dwt. stone. This is ope
matter, anyhow, that Australia needn t theorise
upon.
Prime Minister Deakin lately got a letter
from a former Essendon (Vic.) constituent, now
in M.L., asking him, before he attempted to help
Booth’s 5000 English farmers, to do something for
exiled Australians. The writer left Victoria for
M.L. in ’O3, secured a selection, was assisted over
clearing and grazing difficulties, and is now milk-
ing 60 cows, and getting first-class returns from
his labor. He did all this in less time than he
wasted in Victoria merely looking for land. He
has no complaint against Maoriland, but
tralia is still my country, and I would sooner be
there.”
Sydney Daily Telegraph, commenting
on R. J. Black’s lecture on N.S. Wales’ land laws,,
said that “the history of our land policy and
administration is that of a stupendous failure of
State landlordism.” Well, seeing that the State
isn’t any longer the landlord of 48,851,524 acres of
the very pick of the country, and that the persons
employed in agriculture when the 1901 census was
taken numbered only 77,619 or at the rate of one
person per 630 acres, even assuming that all were
employed on freeholds —what has the I).T. got to
say about the stupendous failure of private land-
lordism ?
Bruce Smith’s politeness rose like cheap
pastry in his academic oration on the angelic Jap.
Bruce delivered a pocket-history lecture on the
institutions, commerce, culture, law, morality,
etc of the yellow isles—bloodless but carefully
compiled—as a prelude to his insidious motion to
amend the Immigration Restriction Act, so that
by “ diplomatic negotiation ” and international
courtesy,” the Japs would ultimately occupy the
Northern Territory. Bruce is so excessively
polite that he would hand over everything except
his own law practice, assets, and bilcd shirt to
almost any nigger who asked for it in the name of
international courtesy.
Treasurer Peake, moving his graduated
land-tax proposals in the S. Australian Assemb y,
said that he recently drove for a whole day through
fertile land between Meningie (on babe Albert;
and Cooke’s Plains without passing off the estates
of the two Bowmans and Allan M'Farlane. tie
saw sheep by thousands, but did not pass lialt-a-
dozen people, nor see more than one or two nuts.
The same sort of experience can be met with in
N.S.W. between Bombala and Cooma, where the
coach wears out two sets of horses trying to get
past the Bibbenluke estate, and the visible popu-
lation can be counted on the thumb of one hand.
Queensland has a fine old relic of the Tory
days in the shape of a law which makes the
bakers’ employees responsible for light-weight
bread, while the masters get off scot free. ome
years ago the masters, prompted by some sort of a
sense of justice, met and fixed a dough scale, so
that the men would not bake light bread except
by carelessness. The scale was posted up con-
spicuously in the work-rooms. Very soon after
it was taken down again, and each boss bakei
fixed his own scale, and if the amount of dough
allowed is not sufficient to make a full-weight loaf
the employee takes the risk and the consequences.
Minister Lyne tells how he urged that the
N.S.W. State Government should resume for
closer settlement some of the great estates in
southern N.S.W., and was told that it was in-
advisable, because the land was “ too near Vic-
toria.” If Victoria refused to irrigate its northern
districts, or Queensland to promote settlement in
its southern districts, because they were “ too near
N.5.W.,” the amazing childishness of it would
strike every one like a thunderbolt; but N.S.W. s
State rulers are so pitiably parochial and so bump-
tious about the “mother State” that they can
strike this kind of attitude and hardly cause a
remark. They have sunk to a level where any-
thing is possible and nothing that is small and
mean and narrow-minded is unexpected.
The hen-editors of Sydney Telegraph
and Herald are never tired of extolling the
Socialistic enterprise of
the N.S.W. Government
Cold Stores, a State ex-
oeriment to help poultry
raisers. Private enter-
prise failed to suggest a
remedy for the fact that
everybody’s hens laid
eggs at the same time,
until the State erected
the stores, where pro-
ducers could lay their
eggs until prices im-
proved, being charged
storage at the nominal
rent of one penny per
dozen for three months.
Recently, there were
110,000 dozen eggs on de-
posit there, and the laying,
season had only begun.
The Freetrade papers,
which clamor for cheap
food at all costs, allow
their chookey-editors to
gloat over the forced
keeping up of prices by
the withdrawal of all this
innumerable egg from
circulation.
Poor old Donald
Melville, of Victoria’s
House of Rich Land-
lords, resuscitated an
almost defunct phrase—
“ the bulwarks of British
liberty ’’—when he lately
wailed about the iniquity
of the Crown vesting its
own river beds and river
banks in itself, as_ pro-
videfll §wj#feurne’s Water Supply Bill. F&ncy
heaving a phrase like that at a yard or two of mud.
at the bottom of a creek ! This tendency to lash
round with huge phrases on small occasions shows
great lack of perspective.
Concerning the shocked assertion of Dr.
Lloyd, J.P., of Melbourne, that a Senator (name
not given) allows his father to draw about 10s. a
week of old-age pension, to which he is fully and
legally entitled, The Bulletin has got on the
track of at least ten wealthy citizens, all with
two or three or more times the salary of a Sena-
tor, who don’t support the old man, but allow him
to be chargeable on the parish—that is, on the
State. In each case the old man was a Judge ;
now he is a pauper, with an allowance from the
State. If these affluent sons don’t reform and
personally support the venerable person, this
paper may yet become mad enough to print their
names in full, so that public scorn can strike them
where it will do most good.
Providence, or a malevolent editor, decreed
that Carruthers’ offer of 1,800,000 acres at Pilliga
for Booth’s 5000 families should appear in the
Argus (23/9/’O5) almost side by side with a report
of the N.S.W. Land Commission. Carruthers
wrote: —
I consider that the area has great possibilities in the
direction of wheat growing and general cultivation when
irrigated by artesian water, which can be obtained.
T. W. Sands gave evidence before the Commis-
sion :
When first emitted bore water has a rather offensive
smell similar to burning sulphur. It turns brass nearly
black It also leaves a white deposit along the banks of the
channels, and forms a crust something like exploded gun-
powder This water will rot the roots of lucerne. By
the continual use of bore water the soil becomes barren.
Anderson, the Sydney hat man of Six
Hatters notoriety, has been stating that if he
could get 20 more skilled hatters from England
he could so enlarge his business as to employ, not
only them, but 80 other men in subsidiary indus-
tries • but he says he can’t import those 20 men
because the union will only allow four new men to
join its ranks, and if the other 16 work for him
without joining the union there will be much
trouble. Without placing too much reliance on
Mr. Anderson, whose performances over the Six
Hatters were not calculated to excite any large
confidence in him, The Bulletin is sure of these
three things: —
(1) That there are enough hats to be made in Australia,
before local supply overtakes local demand, to employ all
the hatters in Australia and many hundreds more.
(2) That it would be a great benefit to a land where
there is so great a lack of employment if all these hats
were made in Australia. ~ . , .
(3) That if the unions would leave off sinking the fiscal
issue, and think more about getting extra work into
Australia, and less about making the existing scrap of
work go round, it would be a great deal better for them
and for Australia.
I ears ago the three Supreme Court Judges
in S.A., in a case where Speaker Holder was act-
ing as Attorney-General in the absence of King-
ston, ruled that that office can be held by a lay-
man. Fortified, further, by the opinion of bymon,
K.C., the Price Government isn’t worrying over
the attempt to get it declared illegal for Treasurer
Peake to combine with that office the portfolio of
Attorney-General. The latest move is to raise
the point before the criminal court that tne
indictments of prisoners are void because a lay-
man cannot sign them as Attorney-Generafi ana
it is threatened to take the matter to the Privy
Council. Thus do wealthy Conservatives propose
to ally themselves with burglars and other foes to
“ property ” for the purpose of defeating the ends
of justice.
N.S.W. politicians, covering the abandon-
ment of their pre-election pledges against borrow-
ing by a rabid enthusiasm for immigration,
altogether overlook the men with hoes whc
sweat their lives out gambling with the halves
system. It is because they could not get from tne
Government decent land on decent conditions
that these men sold themselves to land cormorants
on a system that ties them as serfs to a soil that
will never be their own, and whose products, when
there are products, will for ever go to the land-
owner in a ratio inequitable in theory and prac-
tice. If there is to be an allotment of cultivable
land for Booth’s brigade of British derelicts, why
not a similarly rosy chance for the men already
slaving for starvation results on halves !
It seems a pity that Lionel lerry, tlie
Wellington crank, didn’t wait until reaching
Australia before “ putting to death ’ his Chow
victim. Had he done so, the “aged and infirm
Chinese,” as the dailies call him, might have
served the Stinking Fish party for another ten
years, and filled the place now occupied by the
shadowy and threadbare Six Hatters. Miles of
leaders might have been written about the perni-
cious effects of the Immigration Restriction Act,
thousands of words might have gone through to
the London papers, and the perfume of the
Decomposed Denizens of the Ocean might have
been disseminated through financial London
by means of the Economist and similar rags. A
great opportunity was lost because lerry was too
impatient to wait till he got to Australia.
Queensland Labor party has lately lost two
seats at bye-elections, including one for the
Charters Towers electorate, held since the
beginning of the party. This is part of the price
of the unhappy disunion caused by the extremist
attitude of the men who run the outside organisa-
tion. The Parliamentary Labor party is doing
unselfish and valuable work, and, as a reward, is
being attacked by the Labor paper and some
of the Labor “leaders” outside; and that
sort of thing disgusts the electors. The
Charters Towers election expresses the re-
solve of the goldfield to support the Labor-cum-
Morgan party, which is doing such good work in
Parliament at straightening up public affairs,
rather than the Worker, which denounces Labor
members because they don’t vapor sufficiently
about vague things like “ Socialism in our time.
Says the Freetrade Launceston (Tas.)
Examiner in a bitter article on “lederation and
its Disappointments ” :
The whole of the direct taxation of Tasmania to-day,
outside Customs, yields £216,000, while our interest hill
is £352,000. We can easily call to mmd the turmoil
created by the proposal to raise £39,000 by means of the
Ability Tax.
Tasmania voted for Federation knowing that it
would thereby lose its mter-State Customs
revenue. The Examiner is a Freetrade paper,
and holds that the consumer pays the Customs tax,
and that by the abolition of the mter-State duties
Tasmania was relieved of a “load of taxation.
The State refused to put on new taxes to counter-
balance those taken off, and the Examiner backed
it up in so doing. Then, when the Treasurer
finds himself short of money, the Examiner calls
this one of the “disappointments of Federation.
Federation has just one drawback. It has pro-
vided a lot of shiftless, cowardly and unprincipled
State politicians with a much too handy scapegoat
on which to lay the blame of their own incapacity.
Newcastle is still waging war in its efforts
to compete with the octopus-like grab that the
port of Sydney has on N.S.W. trade, the dirty
coalopolis has ideas of its own, and every week
sees a fresh grievance trotted out. Ihe retort ot
Sydney is to treat the northern port as a country
town, and publish the annual expenditure of State
money at Newcastle as compared with the amount
spent at Tibooburra, Collarendebn, and other
remote centres, and then angrily demand to know
what more Newcastle wants. The coal city is
concentrating its efforts now on an alteration of
the railway rates, which are so differentiated at
present that it actually pays to drag heavy freights
from Northern N.S.W. past Newcastle, and 100
miles further to Sydney. This grievance New-
castle had hopes of at last righting, seeing that
its member is m the Cabinet. 33ut the Carruthers
Ministry is a slave to the right-thinking person ;
and the right-thinkingpersonis almost exclusively
interested in the aggrandisement of Sydney. .
There seems to be a future for Minister
Swinburne, the ablest and most energetic (he gives
even Bent points in the latter respect) member
of the Bent Cabinet. His Water Act which he
drove with great difficulty through both Houses,
is a fine, up-to-date measure; and his Dairies
Supervision Bill, though badly mauled m com-
mittee, is still a very noticeable step forward.
The other evening, at a literary society meeting,
Swinburne got off the following remarks
Men and women who would not look into the social!
question had no idea how the world was going on The
politician who would not study the social question and
make it the question of his life, might as well retire to-
the back-blocks. Depend upon it, the social question,
was here with us, and the great masses of the
people were determined to rise and secure a fair
opportunity to better their position and get out.
rut into which they had sunk. They said,
now: “ Because we were born working men, are we
to remain workingmen? Because we were born poor,,
are w“toremafn poor?” And they cried that because one
man was born a noble, that was no reason why he should
die a noble. Every man ought to have an equal oppor-
tunity.


o
A
y
•S-
-<
©
Good \
Shape,
Good
Wean
X
\rV
>
1
&
1
ss
V
&
Tit
mM
sgifiKfife
kss
A
GLANCE
AT IT
IS
ENOUGH I
In Black
Douro Calf,
or Tan
Willow Calf,
21/-
221-
POST AND DUTY FREE,
Including WEST AUSTRALIA.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
All Boots carry sole stamp “CITY BOOT."
h
O
O
A
O
A STRONG
POINT
That we have a right to use in
self-recommendation is that WE
ARE KEPT VERY BUSY.
THE |
CAUSE J
Is very plain. Good Boots
are the things that have pro-
duced the Busi—ness.
They are the only kind we sell, so
want good measure for your
COME-ALWAYS-TO-US.
if you
money
Send for—
THE CALLAGHAN
STYLE-BOOK
Fully Illustrated.
POSTED FBEE.
BUY A
PAIR
TO-
DAY!
UrF.
§ ADIES ! ATTENTION ! • • A PERFECT COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER AND
Am REMOVER OF WRINKLES WHICH WILL DEVELOP OR REDUCE all Wrinkles
caused by cares or worries will disappear like a charm when The Only ELECTRIC
MASSAGE ROLLER (patented by Dr. John Wilson Gibbes) is used as directed, with
the World-Famous EPI DERM I A CREAM, The Wonderful Skin
Demulcent, applied in conjunction to specially facilitate the Massage.
All ladies who havS given this a trial are delighted with the result. Rollers supplied
Silver, 15/6; C01d,.18/6 ; Epidermia Cream at 2/6 —posted free to all States. Apply
only at THE AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY Ltd., 177 LIVERPOOL ST.,
SYDNEY. MI&& Beware of All Imitations and Fraudulent Rollers.
Stop Groping
in the Dark!
ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPS
ĥ
Unquestionably the Rest and Most Reliable on the Market.
Press the button, and you have a very brilliant light, which is further itensified by the powerful magnifying
glass bulb fitted over the ordinary glass bulb. NO WASTE of Electricity in our Lamps.
NO DANCER!
NO SMOKE!
NO SMELL!
A HOUSEHOLD
NECESSITY.
Nothing to get out
of order.
A Child can manipu-
late it.
Min
One battery, used a
little each night,
will last over six
months.
In use constantly by
thousands of men
and women in every
sphere of life.
WE HAVE NEVER
KNOWN ONE TO GET
OUT OF ORDER.
Every Lamp Guaranteed.
Beware of the innumerable cheap Lamps on the market, which are utterly
worthless and g'et out of order in no time. Our Lamps are not Toys.
Batteries are only charged the day they are sent out. Most Lamps are charged in the Manufactory months
(perhaps years) before you get them, affected by climate, heat and wind, and all the electricity wasted.
Price, posted to any address in Australia, properly packed, 7s. 6d. each. Refill batteries, 3s. each.
A. J. SMITH & CO., B Moore Street, SYDNEY
m
Sde. ho ■
fmm all
Grand
h ,
NICOLE
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking M tchine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
HKOLEPHONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
¥
The Colonial, and
The New Standard,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE EREE on application.
W. G. KING,
agent. 316 George St
SYDNEY.
'&mZ
Refiners and
sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS
THE RIGHT
kind of roofing to use is the kind that
will not crack or split and let in the
rain the kind that will keep out heat
in summer and cold in winter. Such a
ROOFING
is to be procured at a reasonable cost.
It is called Malthoid Roofing', It makes
a permanent water-proof oovering for
any building, big or small.
“ ,fll is not seemly, do It not; if it is not true, speak it not.”-M A Rcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Aast. Rep.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT 00., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. S. FRIEND & 00., Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A,
Townsville, Q.
EEDLEY BUTTON, Launceston, Tas.
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W.A.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vio,
THOMPSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
S\soh
>52
THOMAS A. EDISON,
the Inventor of the
greatest Phonograph
ever produced.
YOU can buy a genuine EDISON for a very little
money nowadays—as low as 50/-, in fact. We
have a great assortment of different EDISOIN
MODELS, and have priced them to bedrock.
CUT THIB OUT.
Fill in your Name and Address, and we will
send you our Catalogue and List of New
Records.
Name
Address
The EDISON OEfl PHONOGRAPH- - -
The EDISON STANDARD PHONOGRAPH -
The EDISON HOME PHONOGRAPH - -
RECORDS, Is. 6d. each ; 17s. dozen.
-50 s.
- £4
£6
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Speediest Cure
It Gets There Quickest
Si
A
u
ALL CHEMISTS, Is; FOUR
TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2s 6d.
INSIST UPON
FISHER’S”
Kidney Ailments.
When you have any SUSPICION that vour
KIDNEYS are GETTING BAD, take
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE
TO CLEANSE AND STRENGTHEN THEM.
It is invaluable as an agent to ward off Diabetes
Bright’s Disease, and Backache.
Thousands of people take an occasional dose of
“FISHERS” PHOSPHERINE
to keep their kidneys in perfect order, and up to
the mark. *
A most WONDERFUL MEDICINE, easy to
take, absolutely superseding awkward pills and
heavy drugs.
Many people as a precaution against kidney and
bladder troubles take it in their whisky or in wine.
Ten Drops Make a Dose.
A MOST EFFICIENT DOCTOR,
AT SMALL COST.
post free from FISHER & COMPANY, 337 George St, Sydney.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited
Merchant Drapers and Tailors, importers,
Manufacturers and Retailers.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING (Hand-Made)—
TROUSERS in Fancy Worsteds, Latest Shades, Light-Weight Summer Materials, Made to
Measure, 18/6, 21/-, 22/6, 25/6, 27/6, 30/- per pair.
TROUSERS in Washing Goods, for Summer Wear—Brown Twilled Crash, 11/6 per pair*
Plain and Fancy Crash, 13/6; Plain Brown Duck, 12/6; Striped Duck, 15/6 •
Tussore Silk, 18/6 per pair. * *
RIDING TROUSERS in West of England Whipcords and Saddle Twists, Buckskins
Bedford Cords and Venetian Twists, 27/6, 30/-, 32/6 per pair.
The Sailorman’s blue breeches have more of Cloth than cut;
There are Dutch-built tailor-trousers like a double water-butt;
Try Finney’s Faultless Breeches—just try them once, I beg—
They give Curve to the Slab-sidedest, and set-off a Handsome Leg.
Edward & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane, Queensland
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS.^
flp
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,'
Surgical Instrument
“ Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St).
Also at Melbourne.
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 26, Posted 29. Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, ”
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Yeabs.


“SVIOTA” BRAND
motor car spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Of all Motor Manufacturers, Importers, .Repairers,
etc., or of
The British Imperial Oil Co., Ltd.
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney.
1
Blood Turning to Water. Mrs.
Reyer de Moel, of Peabody street,
Belmore, praises Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills Her recovery, after doc-
tors had failed, was almost a miracle.
Mrs. de Moel’s letter is as follows “ Bor
some years I have suffered with bad health, and
during the last twelve months my strength seemed
to fail me'altogether. At times I became dizzy
and lost the use of my legs, and have been almost
wholly confined to my home. I dared not go far
from home for fear of not being able to get back.
Itr December last my skin became blotchy, and
pimples appeared all over my body. I went to
the Prince Alfred Hospital, and the doctor gave
me some medicine, which, however, did not do me
any good. I made about twelve visits to the
hospital, extending over a period of two months,
but I did not seem to get better, and I was in
despair. The doctor said my blood was out of
order, and was like water, causing my flesh to be-
come puffed and swollen. Early in March a
neighbor advised me to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, which was a splendid medicine for
purifying and enriching the blood, and on the
following day my husband purchased a bottle.
After a couple of days my appetite improved, so I.
decided to persevere with the pills, and took them
as directed. In the course of three weeks I found
a wonderful improvement in my health. I seemed
to gain strength daily. The pimples had dis-
appeared, and as I gained strength the dizziness
which I used to experience entirely left me. To-
day I feel a new woman, and am enjoying the
best of health. I still take your pills on alternate
days, and recommend them to everyone. The
neighburs can all testify to my condition three
months ago, and are surprised at the wonderful
curative properties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. You are at liberty to use this letter in any
way you may decide so that those who are suffering
as I did may take heart and know that your pills
will do them good.— Kate de Moee.” These are
words that should carry weight with all women
suffering as Mrs. de Moel did. Anyone doubting
the correctness of this statement can write her at
her address, Peabody-street, Belmore, near
Sydney, and she will furnish them with any
information they may want in reference to her
marvellous recovery after doctors had failed to do
her the slightest good. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills make weak women strong and sick
well. They get at the cause as no other remedy
does, healing inflammation, drying debilitating
drains, cleansing the stomaeh, driving all im-
purities out of the blood, and assisting in the;
assimilation and digestion of food by Keeping the;
liver and kidneys in proper working order.*
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ft J. MOLONEY,
Tattersaii's Club,
SYDNEY,
COMMISSIONS Executed
ħ
LONGEST MARKET RATES
GUARANTEED. _ sS £^
TEL. 1542 or 251.
Write or wire for Quotations .
Prioa Umtm forwarded on Application*
»
Address am, Cobbehpondenob—
M. J. MOLONEY, TattersalTs Gub, Sydney,.
h
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
.to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The V.R.C. action against toteman Wren is now
complete. With the exception of Pius in the Derby and
Melbourne Cup, and Grand Rapids in the latter fixture,
the whole of his entries are refused. The Club has also
decided that it will not accept nomipations in the name
of Musgrave, Wren’s trainer ; so after the running of the
Melbourne Cup, unless this decision is rescinded, J. Wren
disappears from the Victorian turf. The club explains
that it doesn’t reh, 3t on Wren’s running of his horses—it
freely admits that he ran to win every time, and declares
that it is kicking him on “ open grounds.” “ Open
grounds ” is a vague expression. Monday’s morning
papers explained that the V.R.C. had decided to reject
his entries in the hope that the action would force
Wren to close up his notorious Collingwood tote shop.
But that tote is now one of the great natural resources of
J. Wren, if not of Victoria, and it will probably pay the ex-
bootmaker to let racing go, and stick to the institution
that has made him a wealthy man.
« • • *
Following close upon the action of the V.R.C.
in refusing Wren’s nominations came a Parliamentary
question as to the Government’s power to upset the
V.R.C. by-laws. Which accords with popular notions
that Wren, the tote man, is an awfully influential person.
The question raised by Boyd, M.L. A., led to an interview
between Jack Murray, the Minister of Lands, and lawyer
Croker, on behalf of‘the V.R.C., concerning the by-laws
whereof Wren disapproves. Murray subsequently in-
formed the press that the Government can overrule the
legislation of the racing club because it is lord of the
Crown lands at Kleniington, but as to whether the
Government intends to act as agent for Wren’s vengeance
the Minister preserved a dignified silence.
Another Caulfield Cup meeting starts next
Saturday, and the roll-up of country visitors promises to
make it a notable meet in point of attendance, whatever
sort of racing - may eventuate. Punters are waiting for
Guineas Day to give them more ideas than they
gathered from the humiliation of Australian “ form by
the Maorilanders at Randwick last month. The Stakes
race may settle one or two questions, the Guineas will
perhaps reveal the Derby chance of Charles Stuart, who
was a sick gee at Sydney, and the Toorak Handicap has
sometimes indicated a Cup winner.
* * * *
Torah, well backed for the coming Caulfield
event, made a fair show behind Gladsome in the V.R.C.
October Stakes last Saturday. Accepting Sob Green s
mare as invincible over a 10-furlong course, Torah did
well enough in finishing close to her tail with 8.4 up, or
151 b. more than the colt is asked to carry in the Cup.
But to this scribe’s way of thinking, Florin did quite as
well in winning the Stand Handicap under 7.11. The
8-year-old gelding was handicapped at 6.13 for the Cup,
and a'3lb. penalty will not put him out of it. Step Out,
in the same ownership, has been talked about and backed
as a very dangerous one, yet Florin will be fancied a bit if
he goes to the post. On the other hand, punters are
bound to respect the stable tip. If Step Out carries
trainer Higinbotham’s full confidence on the strength of
private gallops with Florin, not even the Maniopoto bogey
will prevent the public from rushing the son of Thunder-
bolt and Footstep.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week the Law got a step
further ahead in the matter of suppressing the “gam-
bling evil,” when Dwyer, P.M., decided that the directors
and manager of a public co., duly registered .under the
Companies Act as the Metropolitan Club, Ltd., were
simply common or bookroaking bettors. The five
defendants were named Lou. Solomon, Harry Myers,
Lou. Myers, Woolf Cohen, and Michael Cohen (begorra),
and there was such a distinct Yiddish flavor about the
names, and so much bashfulness about the gentlemen
when invited to give information in the witness-box re
their company, that Mr. Dwyer speedily reached the con-
clusion that these philanthropists weren’t spending all
their days and half their nights in the “ club ” purely for
the love’of the thing and out of a sincere desire to ‘ im-
prove the breed of horses” (vide prospectus). There
was evidence that purchasers of “ scrip ” were
told to “take their florin out in bets”; or that the
“ club ” consisted of a bare room containing" two black-
boards, two telephones, a long counter and a dilapidated
billiard-table ; that there were no shareholders’ meetings,
nor any further calls or subscriptions. So the P.M. coldly
fined two Cohens, two Myers and one father of Rehoboam
£2O each and fixed the security for appeal at £25 each.
As they propose to appeal, the club or company—with
four or five similar institutions —still pursues the profit-
able tenor of its way.
* * * *
A keen business instinct leads a man into a bog
occasionally. On Saturday some caitiff spread a report at
Rosehill (Sydney) racecourse that the S. Australian colt
Torah had walked all over Gladsome in the October
Stakes at Flemington, and beaten her by yards. Then
the man with tlie business instinct rushed to Moses,
assumed an innocent air, and asked “ What price Torah
for the Caulfield ? ” The unconcerned way i n which Moses
replied “Ten to one 1” caused the business instinct to
rush round the whole of the pencillers and snap up the
good thing before the bookmakers heard the report. It
was only when it had parted with its good gold that the
business instinct realised it had fallen into a trap, and
that Torah had run second.
4i * # . *
Auckland, the last of Maoriland metropolitan
racing clubs to license bookmakers, has decided that
Ikey’s voice is a horror and a nuisance, and that Moses
shall compete with the totalisator no longer. When the
bookmaker protested, the club assumed a severe expres-
sion, and told him that it was going to improve the tone
of racing. Which was rough on the bookmaker. He
merely gasped out that, depraved as he was, he paid the
club £2900 in fees, etc. The club said that was quite
true, but the officials had discovered that, by paying
the £2900 to the club, Ikey got £3500 that would other-
wise go to the totalisator ; s 6 Ikey goes, filling the air
with lamentations.
* * * *
Sydney climate is as perverse as a womans
temper is supposed to be. During the days of the
football competitions summer days nearly killed half the
teams with heat apoplexy, while the balance melted
visibly before the eyes of the barrackers. Then cricket
started, and the party in charge of the weather turned on
the mid-winter supply. The opening day was brutal, and
the second round started on an afternoon too vile for
words. A cold southerly came along and made havoc
with the ears of the fieldsmen, and, apparently, in some
way, interfered also with the bowling of everybody but
MacOartney, of Gordon. Big scores were the feature of
the afternoon, but the performance of Bur wood was abso-
lutely sensational. Although the second round has only
just started, Burwood looms like a white elephant in a
drawing-room. The first round saw Sydney defeated by
an innings and 50 runs, Burwood having closed its innings
with three wickets down for 227. On Saturday it
piled up 358 runs for the loss of one wicket. Mackay and
Johnston went to the sticks and for 155 minutes slogged
Grounds, Bowden, Dive, Christie and Bowden again, till
290 stood opposite their names. Then Mackay lifted one
of. Bowden’s to Newell, who held it. Diamond joined
Johnston, and added 38 to Johnston’s 107. Mackay s
score included nine fives and 19 fours. It was brilliant
batting, but had a lot of luck about it. The man who
played the game was Johnston. He lifted his five fives
coolly and precisely, placing every stroke with masterly
skill.
* * * *
North Sydney recovers from the effects of its
amputations with great celerity. Although its nearest
approach to a century on Saturday, against the Univer-
sity, was White’s 96, the team managed to pile up 344 for
seven wickets. Paddington, playing on its own wicket
against Gordon, struck disaster in spots. Two of its men
were in the poultry line, three others passed out without
reaching double figures, and the last wicket fell for 221.
Gordon lost one wicket for 18. At the Sydney Cricket
Ground Waverley won the toss from Middle Harbor, and
Charlie Gregory knocked up 123 before Randall scattered
his stumps. The seventh wicket fell for 289. Against
Sydney, Central Cumberland, with four egg merchants in
the team, notched 285 ; and Balmain piled up 335 against
Redfern, of which Whitting made 129 before he was
stumped.
Naturally, in the face of such batting, there
wasn’t much room for phenomenal bowling, but MacCart-
ney, of Gordon, blazed coinet-like on his pitch. He clean
bowled four of Paddington ; two more were caught by
Hartigan off his bowling ; and yet another two were
caught by his redoubtable self off Black’s bowling. So that
his performance was much better than his figures—six for
55 ; and they are excellent. M'Beth, of Sydney, took six
wickets for" 96 rums, and of the seven Waverley wickets
that fell to Middle Harbor Randall accounted for three at
a cost of 50 runs. In the face of work of this class there
is no need to despair because the XI. was licked. There
is good material around, if it can only get a chance.
* * * *
CricKeter Jack Marsh, who was the bone of con-
tention in cricket discussions a season or two back,
achieved a new distinction on Eight-Hours Day by winning
the greasy pole climbing event at the holiday demonstra-
tion sports. Probably the selectors now feel justified in
their refusal to play Marsh in big matches. There is a
grievous lack of dignity about a cricketer who climbs
greasy poles to make mirth for the bellowing multitude.
“ B. Bo ” : Victorian Cricket Association hangs
tenaciously to the foolish notion of a selection committee
of five to choose a representative XI., notwithstanding
that the idea has hitherto proved unsuccessful. Better
results would be brought about by a committee of three
(or a sole selector, for that matter), as in the other
States ; but the Vic. Association, which takes abnormal
pride in pointing the finger of scorn at the happenings of
other State Associations, doesn’t seem disposed to heave
a brick at itself for its antediluvian ways. The smaller
the selection committee, the less friends to barrack for—
hence better results; and the Vic. Association should
apply the pruning-knife for the good of the pastime.
Maoriland has gone mad over the success of its
football team in the Cold Country. Seddon has arranged
to have the results wired and telephoned immediately
upon receipt to every nook and corner of the land.
Crowds gather round the telegraph and newspaper
offices, and whoop loudly when the joyful tidings are
posted up. What Maorilanders will do when their
Rugbyites strike disaster is beyond imagination.
* * * *
The cabled details of the Maorilanders’ tour are
giving a lot of worry in the States where Rugby is un-
known. Adelaide Register, of Sept. 30, turned all the
jargon about “ tries ” into neat English, thus: “Mynott
had a try after a quarter of an hour’s play, and before the
interval Stead and Harper had a try each, while Hunter
made two attempts.” “ is good. *
The last, final, winding-up match of the Vic.
football season saw 15,000 persons part £330 and just
about fill the East Melbourne ground to see the “ chal-
lenge ” game between Richmond and North, of the Associ-
ation. The latter was a pretty heavy team, but the Rich-
mond men were heavier still, some of them running to
6ft. 3in. and 15 stone, which is a weighty mass to bump
against. By courtesy it was called a football match, but
in effect it was merely a rough, unscientific scramble,
plentifully interlarded with penalty kicks. One man had
to be carried off the ground with the muscles of his side
bruised and torn ; while elbow-jabs, punches and trip-
pings were the order of the day. At half-time the scores
were three goals three behinds each. After that things
were “ willing.” Richmond had what wind there was, and
used it to pile up five goals three behinds more while North
stood still. In the last quarter North waded in, and three
incipient melees were only stopped by the captains and a
strenuous umpire. One captain took one of his men by
the scruff of the neck and ran him 20yd. away from the
seat of argument. Outside, the barraekers lost what
little heads they ever possessed, and strings of them
(including some of the notorious North Melbourne
Crutchy push) forced a way through the packed specta-
tors, bearing flags, sticks, and streamers, and yelling
“ Root ’em out, you blue-and-white angels,” with accom-
paniments of language that should have got them six
months’ hard labor without trial. There were a dozen or
so police on hand, but the picket fence gave way, and
they were fully occupied in keeping the barraekers from
assaulting the players. As to fights, the writer saw more
scraps than he has witnessed at League matches in half-a-
dozen seasons, and he didn’t move from one spot all the
quarter. Richmond finally departed premiers by nine
goals seven behinds to five goals six behinds; while
North’s supporters went home in furniture vans to drown
their sorrow.
* * * »
The balance sheet of the Victorian Football
League shows that the second and final rounds of the
jusLconcluded season (the individual clubs mop up the
profits of the first round) yielded a net profit of £2711
185..3d,, of which the League retained £l4O to meet the
deficit on general account; £2Ol 3s. was given to the
charities ; £145 liquidated the Petersham boys’ trip ; £lOO
was sent over to help the N.S.W. League keep its fefet;
and the eight clubs divided the remainder, getting from
£248 to £2Bs'each.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association’s championship
regatta on Parramatta River, on Saturday, was sadly
hampered by bumpy water and a biting southerly.
Nevertheless the Girl was there in full force, and waved
her best Boy’s crew on to defeat or victory impartially.
The Sydney Olub men retained the Champion Fours
easily, winning by three lengths after a rough voyage and
shipping heaps of water. At Gladesville they ran right
across the river and took shelter under the southern bank.
Mercantile crew also crossed over, but did not hug the
shore like the Sydney crew. Notwithstanding the dis-
tance thus saved the Mercantile crowd had no hope
against the champion boat, which made great pace
through the smoother water. Mercantile Club’s share of
the day’s laurels were eminently satisfactory, however,
the Maiden Eights and Junior Fours falling to it. The
Maiden Eights carries with it the Metropolitan Cup, and
the club, which has won the Eights four years running
now, and the Cup twice, has only to win the drinking
utensil once more to retain possession of it for ever. A
decent drinking utensil is a handy thing to have about a
boating shed. Enterprise Club, -in a new boat built by
ex-champion sculler Towns, walked off with the Maiden
Fours. The points in the premiership tussle now stand
like this : Sydney 32, Mercantile 24, and Enterprise 4.
* * * *
“ O.” : Found dead, near Ararat (Vic.), Charles
Tudor Bird, said to be the English ped., imported by
George Coppin, in 1869. With him came two others—
Frank Hewitt and George Topley. But there’s a mistake
somewhere. Coppin’s Bird was named Albert Edward.
Or did Bird take that name because, just about that time,
it was a svnonynv for going at a quick pace ?
**• * *
Ex-Mayor Cohen (Adelaide), who is a vice-presi-
dent of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, recently steered a Bill through the S.A. Parlia-
ment to protect homing pigeons ; but he declined to
accept the assistance of the Government in adding a
clause to make illegal what Premier Price characterised
as “the cruel and cowardly sport ” of pigeon shooting.
Pigeon murder is a fashionable “ amusement,” and little
Cohen is going to be fashionable or bust.
* » * *
A sign of the changing season is the activity of
the swimming clubs. Mosman (Sydney) has just held its
annual meeting, at which 28 new members were elected
and fifty-six (only 56) vice-presidents appointed, it appar-
ently taking two vice-presidents to look after each
swimmer. The statement that the Sydney Ferries Co.
has refused to place a special steam r on the morning
time-table to convey the vice-presidents has no founda-
tion. Instead it has offered to hire an ironclad to carry
them, that vessel being about their size.
The Port Jackson Skiff Club (Sydney) put up
some fine navigation on Saturday, keeping the split
walnuts afloat with considerable success under their
clouds of canvas in spite of the choppy water and gusty,
uncertain wind. The Oweenee had struggled to the front,
and was on the last reach in sight of the goal when a
hack puff sent her right over, and the fleet rushed past.
Down at Manly Cove the capsizes were thick as bees, and
the club’s invitation race turned into a swimming
carnival.
* » * *
Sydney Flying Squadron found the water
very wet when it opened its season with two heats
and a final. Three new boats—Blanche, Crescent,
and Merlin—took part, but did no good ; and Thalia
and Desdemona, which had ceased to race a few
seasons ago, re-appeared. In the first heat Thalia led the
fleet home, but in the second Desdemona started for the
front immediately. Australian filled up ; the limit boat,
Volt, capsized ; and Desdemona flew on to finish limin. in
front of Vision, the second craft. The final found a
stronger breeze, and Desdemona had it practically all her
own way, with Keriki second, and Thalia third.
* * * *
The most startling item in the week’s sport was
the opening of Lavender Bay Baths (Sydney). The new
structure cost £2300, of w'hich the council had borrowed
£2OOO, but as THERE IS A SINKING FUND’the baths
Will in time become the absolute property of the cor-
poration. This startling innovation so got the Sydney
Telegraph down that it could not bring itself to print
the fact, and, according to the policy of the alleged
“greatest financial authority in Australia,” it announced
that as there was no sinking fund the baths would in time
become the property of the council. Wellington said
that Waterloo was won on the playgrounds of the great
public schools, and it is just possible that the financial
regeneration of Australia may come about by the sports-
men actually paying for tracks and buildings out of
revenue. Anyhow a bath with a sinking fund, although
it may sound ominous, is a real good start. Whoop !
* * * *
Pursey Chirnside is going to make a mighty
effort to win the Melbourne-to-Sydney reliability motor
test, and appropriate the Dunlop Oup for a year. He has
a £2OOO car on the way from Europe for the contest, and
in the meantime two of his drivers are spying out the
road on a light car, and noting the exact spot at which it
is necessary to slow down for V-shaped water-courses and
dangerous curves.
* * * **
Dick Arnst put up a wonderful unpaced ride in
the 10-mile Australasian championship last week. Early
in the race Arnst and Goodson singled out and gained
half-a-lap break on their opponents ; then the latter’s tyre
blew out, and Arnst started to ride as few cyclists in
Sydney rode before, but in the end he was just pipped on
the post by Victorian rider E. A. Pye. Arnst took 22 lap
prizes, and had awful luck to just lose the championship ;
he finished comparatively fresh, while the other riders
reeled or fell exhausted at the conclusion of the race.
* * *
Excepting Jack Arnst, Maoriland’s team of
road-racing cyclists haven’t succeeded in capturing any-
thing in Australia excepting bruises and damage to their
racing machines. Even Arnst didn’t do anything better
than a fastest time prize. But more dismal than the
winds of Wellington have been the howls of these
Maorilanders against the hardness of the Australian roads;
and they sighed mournfully for a deluge so that they
could show the Australian generally what is pluck and
road-racing—as they know it in Maoriland. The men
from Seddon’s Land, however, are too bulky to look like
formidable road-racers—O’Connor, who is but sft. lOin.
high and scales 13 stone, is perhaps the worst example—
and on the fast and hard roads the Australians held the
Maorilanders, excepting - Jack Arnst, quite easily
* * * *
The beginning of wisdom as regards motoring,
cycling, motor-biking, motor-boating in N.S.W. is the
purchase of a copy of the N.S.W. Motorists’ and Cyclists’
Annual for 1905. Into its 196 pages the compiler and edi-
tor, Mr. E. Lincoln, has compressed everything of interest
that has happened for a year past in any of these four
branches of sport. The book is profusely illustrated, and
in the direction of motor-boating is something of a
revelation. It contains all the Australian records,
portraits of the best riders and drivers, and other people
of interest, and has the saving grace of being written in a
style that is easy to read. As a rule reading this class of
work is about as hard as pushing a burst motor-car
through the sand.
Clarence Weber’s attempts to arrange another
wrestling match with Buttan Singh and put the cham-
pionship on a White Australian basis, have failed thusfar,
owing to the unsportsmanlike demands of Buttan’s
backers. The veteran Hindu himself might be game to
take his chance on Weber’s terms—the whole of the gate-
money to go to the winner. But the people who pull the
strings—or “ press the Buttan,” so to speak—stipulate for
a division of the gate. Their terms are 40 per cent, for
the loser, and Weber, confident of his ability to turn his
strength to better account than before, is not dis-
posed to battle for their benefit. He wants the credit
of winning under conditions which would leave the slip-
pery black man no inducement to lose, as there would be
if he were assured of a good sum in any case. Weber’s
latest proposal is a manly bid for the championship dis-
tinction. He waives the question of personal profit by
offering to wrestle Buttan for charity’s sake—the whole
of the net receipts to go to the hospitals. Such a match
would prove a big draw any night during the racing car-
nival in Melbourne, and the police (who are advised to
cultivate wrestling tactics, in the interests of Lawan’-
order) might throw in a few amateur bouts to pad the
show. But there’d be no boodle in it for the Buttanites,
and they want boodle badly.
* * *
The recent conflict between Messrs. Dan Hiam
and Dumaresq, the middle-weights, proved that as a hard
hitter Hiam grows deadlier than ever. He displayed no
superior skill in his latest victory over Dumaresq, hut
stood as a Boy of the Bulldog Breed is traditionally sup-
posed to stand, and whirled two lumps of meat and
muscle the size of ferry-boats. Dumaresq mostly failed
to supply the necessary absence when these huge things
flew his way, and being there the great objects hit him.
Yet the first round saw Dumaresq land a right cross on
the jaw, which brought the betting from 6 to 4 “ on ” in
favor of Hiam dowm to even money with a run. It was a
lovely blow—another such and Hiam’s name had been
just Plain Dirt. Dumaresq rushed in and strove to
find an opening, but there was none. It wasn’t Hiam’s
day to be open. In the fourth round Dumaresq did
manage to reach the jaw and chest-bone once, but at too
long a range to be effective. He hauled off, and spent the
fifth round reconnoitring. So did Hiam. Anything
seemed possible. Immediately the sixth round started
Hiam let fly all his artillery. Dumaresq stopped one with
his ear and another with his jaw, and flopped down to
one knee. He came up again with a spurt of courage,
only to receive another straight drive on the south end of
his countenance, which laid him prone till the usual
arithmetical process counted him out.
* * * *
Mat Mitchie, who used to earn his bit by tear-
ing the silver out of Broken Hill, and gave up that occu-
pation to accumulate pelf by battering other coves and
blokes in the square ring, met Patrick Martin in a
friendly bout of fisticuffs at Sydney Gaiety Club on
Saturday night. For many days it had been dinned into
the ears of all who cared to listen that the men were
in the very' pink of condition and fit to take any T amount
of punishment. It seems a pity that so much valuable
time should have been wasted getting fit to take punish-
ment that was never there. The scrap, such as it was,
went the full term, and was finally awarded to Mitchie on
points. Even as a boxing contest it was only mildly
interesting. This writer doesn’t know what Martin did
in the way of toil before lie took to the ring, but Mitchie
earns his dollars much more easily now than when he
delved in the underground passages of Broken Hill.
It has long been expected that the autocratic
methods which the English Amateur Athletic Association
adopts with champion athletes would end with a thump.
A collision was barely averted a short time ago when
the English Union refused permission to Shrulib to go to
Canada and the United States to have a cut in at a cham-
pionship gathering. Accordingly the disqualification of
Shrubb(told by cable) isn’t so much of a shock after all, and
the loss of the athlete who created new record figures will
make English amateur athletics a very dreary and com-
monplace thing indeed.


SEVEN YEARS’
MISERY
Wind, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Dread of Food ;
SWEPT AWAY BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP
- “I suffered severely for Seven
Years from Chronic Indiges-
tion. After every meal I suffered
Read Torture from accumula-
tions of Wind and Gas on the
Stomach. I used to Dread to go
to my meals on this account. Ex-
treme Nervousness, Pressure
and Palpitations of the Heart
and a horrible Burning Sensa-
tion in The Stomach also caused
me great Distress and Suffer-
ing. I tried many remedies, but
none gave me permanent Relief.
“Then, I tried Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. I felt some benefit
from it, soon after the very first
dose, and so I continued to take it
regularly, three times a day, till
the disease and all its distressing
pains and miseries disappeared.
I now enjoy first-rate health.”
Letter from Mr. George E.
Culhane, 145 Sutherland Street,
Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W. ;
January 20, 1905.
*** You should not endure such
miseries as those above described
for seven days—not to speak of
seven years—after reading Mr.
Culhane's letter. Get Mother
Seigel's Syrup and use it promptly.
h
RothwelTs y<ji
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonic
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £1 Is. [B.
ĥ
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE ~
100dOZ. AERATED WATERS for 30/“
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Victorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalling all American productions.
For -further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
ECKERSLEY «£ SONS,
W.A. Agents:
E. H. Fothergill & Co., Fremantle.
■So/e Manufacturers,
214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
O in 5 and 10 pound Boxes.
1 iijO FINEST FRUIT in the WORLD.
%
%
%
Vs.
m
I
Trench’s Remedy for Fits and Epilepsy
The RJSV. A. R. THOMPSOX, Pastor, Portland Baptist Church, Tic., writes: “It Is with the
utmost pleasure that I bear witness to the complete success of your remedy in the case of my
brother-in-law Mr F. C. Williams, of Fitzroy. For orer twelve year, he was a -victim ti
epileptic fits, and, like one m the Scriptures, 'suffered many things of many physicians, . .
and was nothing bettered, hut rather grew worse.’ Seeing an advertisement of your remedr
his friends persuaded him to try it, and wonderful results followed. He had only one seizure
after commencing with the medicine, when the fits altogether ceased. After patient and
persistent following of your directions, with gradually diminishing dose* of the remedy,
he was thoroughly cured. It is now some considerable time since he ceased taking the medicine
and not only has there been no recurrence of the fits, but he is in the best of health and spirits.
I gladly render this testimony, and indeed have spoken of your remedy, and of this successful
oure, to not a few other sufferers.”
Many grateful patients permit us to refer enquirers to them. Send for Booklet; posted free.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go., 359 Collins Streew^lbourne.
IMMEDIATE
RELIEF
DUBLIN
Permanent
Cure
f
| ADIES ! A TTENTION !! !
A PERFECT COMPLEXION BEAUTIFIER AND
REMOVER OF WRINKLES.
The Only ELECTRIC MASSAGE ROLLER (patented by Dr. John Wilson Gibbbs)
with the World-Famous EPIDERMIA CREAM, The Wonderful Skin
Demulcent, applied in conjunction to specially facilitate the Massage.
All ladies who have given this a trial are delighted with the result. Rollers sunnlied
at— Silver, 15/6 ; Cold, 18/6 ; Epidermia Cream at 2/6— posted free to all States 8 Apply
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY Ltd., 177 LIVERPOOL StJ,
oyuney. Bkware of All Imitations and Fraudulent Rollers.
E. T. WALSH,
PRACTICAL TAILOR
EXPERT CUTTER
NEW SPRING SUITINGS.
Stylish Patterns -
Samples, Measure Forms and
Fashion Plates sent Anywhere.
Experienced Cutter from Bond-street, London, employed.
THE LARGEST HIGH-CLASS TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
NO FACTORY WORK.
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ħ
~VeryOldVatteA
LiqueurWhisky.
Distilled&Bottled. by
Kilmarnock .Scotland.
THE KEY TO HEALTH
STRENGTH andVIGQR
THE BEST
NERVE TONIC
IN THE
WORLD
2/ PER BOX
ofjj OTA B LETS
r
“■ VITAL*' I
■FORCE •’
THE
Infallible
REMEDY for
|NERVOUSNESS
'and DEBILITY.
VA
o/7rece//Jfof2v/nr
[THEAUSTRALIAN DRUb C°II? SYDNEY
h
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
n
Is recommended to Mine Managers. Its
Efficiency and Durability under wet conditions
renders its use more economical than leather
belting. Made endless (without stretch), any
length, up to 60 inches wide.
SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of AUST. LTD..
108 Flinders St.. Melbourne: .150 Clarence Si..
Sydney: 117 Grenfell Sl„ Adelaide: 268-270 Adelaide
SI., Brisbane: 617 Hay St.. Perth: 128 Lichfield Si..’
Christchurch. N.Z.
iliiiii
WBm
ht*w*
wmmm
mvt
Dunlop
Racking)
Are Recommended
in all cases where
good wear is required
You will find the Quality
and Prfce right. Sample
of any class of Packing
on application.
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO.
OP AUSTRALASIA LTD. /
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 150 Clarence
Street, Sydney; 117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide;
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 617 Hay
Street, Perth; 128 Lichfield Street, Christ-
church. N.Jr.
ĥ
“Divide,” shouted “ Janny ” Leahy iir
the Bananaland Assembly on the third reading
of Labor member Kenna’s Bill, which ojxens the
door to women to practise as barristers. Then he'
walked out of the House, and when the bar was.
closed, not a member sat on the side of the “ noes.”'
It was a unique sort of division.
The wild, woolly system begot of the'
Bigjohn Forrest happy-family regime in Groper-
land dies hard. The report of the Departmental
Board appointed to disrespectfully rummage
Westralian post-office methods has just reached
headquarters, and the state of things disclosed is.
officially described as “simply awfui.” Sweeping
changes in administration are advocated, and are
expected to shake the Six Families down to the.
bottom-most cellars. The inquiry arose from the'
fact that Westralia last year established a Com-
monwealth record in postal defalcations.
As a climax to the reported doings of sundry
ill-regulated imitators of Captain Thunderbolt—
as presented by the Akgus —comes a choice-
burlesque of the bushranger’s deeds by aFootscray
(Vic.) infant of 13. He stole five cows and in the
innocence of his soul tried to sell them to a police-
man in plain clothes at 2s. per cow. The spectacle
of a knickerbocltered bushranger of 13 trying to.
sell two-shilling cows to a badly-disguised police-
man is the worst satire on the great Australian
outlaw up to date. The finale came when the
policeman said he would buy the cows, and thei
desperado drove them to the lock-up for him, and
didn’t know it was a lock-up till it locked.
Senator Dobson’s proposal for the compul-
sory military training of all able-bodied young
Australian males was opposed by Senator Play-
ford, the Government representative, because,
among other things, “the Anglo-Saxon people;
were instinctively against compulsion.” Are they
really ? In England they put up with compulsion
in the way of paying rents to great ground land-
lords, with eviction to make room for deer and
grouse, with ejection from their own country, with
being hungry, being “moved on” when they are
homeless, and being shut up in workhouses when
they are old—compulsion that no Dane, French-
man, or Norwegian puts up with. Even in Aus-
tralia the race which endures being driven away
from its homes by the great landlords of Tasmania
and Western Victoria can stand compulsory mili-
tary training. It is quite humble enough. If the
alleged spirit of liberty only asserts itself when it
is a question of defending our country from
invasion—well, blow the spirit of liberty !
Apparently there are three ways of
running a Government under the Party system.
The first is to find in Parliament six, eight, or ten
men who think exactly alike on all political ques-
tions, and who have sufficient weight and influ-
ence to be followed by more than half the House.
That is impossible. The second way is the one
which Philip Fysh confessed he had followed—to
join a Cabinet with no faith in its policy, and
swallow principles for the sake of office. That is
politically immoral and disgusting. The third way
was pursued by Lyne and Deakin with regard to
Booth’s Salvation-settlement scheme. Booth
prepared a scheme. Deakin didn’t say definitely
that he was hostile. Lyne cheerfully repudiated
Booth and all his crowd of big drums and wasters.
That was honest, anyhow, and the honesty of it
broke Reid up and nearly made him fall on the
floor in two pieces.
“Woodki”: I’ve settled the unemployed
problem. Make them all enlist, and there you
have an army corps right away. Cost? Oh, put
a tax on decomposed fish-yarns.
The Westralian Labor party goes into the
elections with this policy :
(1) Effective reform of the Legislative Council, with a
view to its ultimate abolition ;(2) taxation of unimproved
land values without exemption ; (ii) non-alienation of
Crown lands ; (4) old age pensions ; (f>) departmental con-
struction of public works ; (6; limitation of State borrow-
ing, except for purposes of reproductive works; (7)
maximum day of eight hours; (8) nationalisation or
municipal!,sation of the liquor traffic; (9) graduated
income-tax with exemptions up to £250.
The abolition of the Upper House, the land-tax,
income-tax, old age pensions, liquor monopoly,
and non-alienation of State lands are all good.
But why isn’t there a word about making income
cover expenditure ? And the loan proposals are
something wonderful. There is to be limited bor-
rowing for non-productive works—that is to say,
there is to be a limited swindle, by the use of loan
money as revenue, but the party doesn’t say
how limited the swindle is to be. It may be
limited to £2,000,000 a year. And then it seems
there is to be unlimited borrowing for productive
works, even though they may not produce more
than a quarter of the interest on the money bor-
rowed for their construction. The productive
w- r.c that yields 1 per cent, and is constructed
with money raised at 3J per cent, is the chief Curse
of Australia.
According to George Reid, “it cost New
South Wales 100 bridges when William Lyne had
to square every member with one.” Every mem-
ber ! Then it would seem that Reid himself wasn’t
above being squared with a bridge.
Be the reported remarks of Baptist Pre-
sident, C. Lane, that—
legislation which committed to gaol the skilled artisan
who comes to our shores to teach us more intelligent
methods, lest he should have some share in our pro-
sperity . . . was evidence of self and self-interest which
must be conquered before we could enter on the path of
true progress—
this country is still waiting for an explanation, Is
Mr. C. Lane prepared to deny making the
statement ? If he isn’t, is he prepared to state
what skilled artisan who came to our shores “to
teach us more intelligent methods ” was sent to
gaol, and when, and to what gaol ? And, failing
both these things, is he prepared to offer any evi-
dence why he shouldn’t be regarded as a slanderer
of his country, a perverter of the truth, a general
discredit to the collection-plate, and one of those
individuals who tend to disgust every intelligent
citizen both with stets and with churches ?


Or
o
m
■
m
m
/
£
m
K
/»
. '
rf;
•fl
Mr**
< i
Rot for
it, But for
«J*tea.liivs it.!
rdp
r\n?TTpm m re*


H*
■ ■
IMi
•7 •!:
J •*' !
• >r&, - -V'.- '.«.v> --.j*
" - JH
■
S ;; " i
yy
r. J.ll-: ••• -». .• •"■O:,. . ,
<
I
RP
mlw
;-j§aS- ' /
aSfKKe.— B
,v;»
m. --"m
| •" «•
' ..i-iiaitfcCaSSf '¥»
: ' ' U
? •
m&*'- ■ •
■ -
m
'
4PP
os
■
A
1
3®?
- 1
*
M
sfPI
i
ESI
‘S
M
m
WM.
You can’t beat the Gippsland Lakes
where there is always Splendid Sport. Drop a Post Card to the
General Passenger Freights Agent, Vidtorian Railways, Meib.
and he will |£ive yon all particulars and assist you with yotir arrangements.


mi
*Sr
&
rm
r,
V
km
i\
7i(vi
'
'Hi
i/c.
A
! 1
\
1 0^
Perfect Happiness a
Security
PROTECT THE HOME
"With a Profit-sharing Life Assurance Policy
issued by tbe . . .
CITIZENS’
Head Office: Citizens’ Building's,
Castlereag'h (Si Moore Sts., Sydney.
INVESTED FUNDS EXCEED £1,500,000.
Life Assurance
Company, Ltd.
The Company Has Money to Lend on security of Freehold, City or Suburban Properties, good Dairy Farms, Agricultural
and Grazing Lands (Freehold or O.P. and C.L.) or Government or Municipal _ +!><»• <> « . ,
Debentures of any of the Australian States or New Zealand at . . . L/Urrent K&'fGS Oj~ Xntei*eSt«
Leans arranged for a fixed term, or made payable by Instalments, without notice or payment of any fine.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Wellington (N,Z,)


£C\ST£7?7
Sk
01
Our Trade Mark, “ THE
WARATAH,” tells the tale:
flade in Australia of Pure
Wool —.
r
%
AV-I
m nECjj
JljJySjli;
W&Mmm
S&lh
I
&?;
!§i>
■22 K% I®
~s
w<?f
i!j§!
y\?\
8
m.i
SifVi
is is H
: , !ssi
i SS
> ■ \-T-Elf• ivs’/O. :t'~~
Wml
m
• *\r
$8
;«s
iSilsil
Alt r/rTAV !;>/7.' v W/y vi\n
aril
KS»
SIUNi
iiilP
& $
IIMM
1
HII
:«5! §=is Sk
raw
■
fpl
1 lir
m
mm
m
r£rZ vJlffis mia
te is
$» S
mm
a
jmn i>'s
«S& M
shs?
Mi
a -:i
t\'S
K
WM
aw&raggf&7fe
sl^
,
figy &
/T*-
Mi
*§»
V SZW
'o<dk@M
ssg gs
a? ?s
lllii
& ;««
S' : M
»<*
Ssgy &asess
'ij>ig sgj
;
Aft
Bn
i
nil
gltJ
IBS
11111111
w
85 W
n
■
if
*
i—ipl
111
'
ilKi
i!i 5
SSB
Ml
ill! I
MM m s ;gi
IS
5 :.*>(!
££
11
w
iH
is
gg
i§s£ i& <!;|
n [V;
ii
||| 'M: |
;?*• }.
•!r«=
MM
$•;;
ii
:fl
3MW
agasa a
m
mm
m
i«.'
Ll'iwS;
Hg
fcaasSfeiS: Sal Wte:
iili
SE
M^PlI
>>
i
IP
ssss
■m>
m
§M $§
iWci
fell
m
I :1k
Swmw
rtrTTi
INSIST ON
YOUR TAILOR
GIVING YOU
HARRICKVILLE
TWEED.
DEAH BOY : “ I always import my clothes.”
AUSTRALIA : “Yes ! They speak for themselves ; mine are made in Australia
of AUSTRALIAN TWEED manufactured at fIARRICKVILLE !”


A. SAUNDERS FOR PRESENTATIONS.
SPECIAL CONCESSIONS
made to RACES CLUBS, SOCIETIES, and INSTITUTES.
SELECTION SENT ON APPROVAL.
SILVER,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Presentation Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
LEVERS, £5, £6, £7, £B. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25. Guaranteed for 4,5, 6,7,
and 8 years.
GOLD,
£1 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Seal Leather WRITING CASE, Sterling
Silver Mounts, Fitted with every convenience, also
extra Russian Leather Blotting Pad, £3 ss. Other
Styles, 255, SOs, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
4 inch high, in 4 styles,
15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s eaen.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four-Cup EGG FRAME and SPOONS, Pure Silver-
Plated, Handsomely Fluted and Ornamented, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 455.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation TOILET SET, Solid Silver, comprising 2
Brushes, Mirror, and Comb, in Silk-Lined Leather Case,
£6. Other Styles, £2, £3, £4, £5, £lO, £l5, £25.
A. SAUNDERS.
£2 5s
{Presentation Ladies’ Solid Silver Hobnail Cut Glass
TpILET SET, comprising Hairpin Holder, Scent Bottle,
Puff Box and Pomade Box, in Sillf-lined Leather Case,
£2 ss. Larger, £3 10s.
Larger,
£3 10s
wf\ r m
is
mum
A. SAUNDERS.
£4 10s
Handsome Presentation 8-Day Cathedral Striking
Marble CLOCK, Jewelled, Visible Escapement, £4 10s.
Guaranteed for 5 Years. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £5 10s, £6 10s„ £7 10s, £lO, to £2O.
£4 10s
h
fflsr
ĥ
£5
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Fern Design, Gilt Lined, comprising
4 Pieces, made expressly (to our order) by James Dixon and Sons, £5. Other Styles, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6, £7,
£lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £35, £4O, £5O.
£5
Jt'tfawncfaq
fill ii iSh
;,. ! ~<4l
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION TROWEL, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver, Carved Ivory Handle,
Ecautifully Chased, 12 inches long, in Silk-Lined Leather Case ,£4 10s.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s.
For Sporting Men.
mREsm
No. 6,
£8
A. SAUNDERS.
ZEISS PRISMATIC FIELD GLASSES, absolutely the
finest, made, with Solid Leather Case and Sling com-
plete, No. 6, £8; No 8, £9.
LEMAIRES, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £2 15s, £4 10s, £5 10s.
No. 8
£9
sJ
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s or Gent.’s Leather TRAVELLING BAG, Silk
Lined, fitted with every convenience, Nickel Fittings.
Ldy’s £4, Gent.’s £4 ss. Solid Silver Fittings,
i \ 10s. Gent.’s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination SUPPER DISH, Biscuit, Butter, and
Cheese, with Servers, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel
Silver, Satin Glass Lining, £3. Hand-Painted Carlton
Ware, without Servers, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
ħ
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER or MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, 355.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Stag INKSTAND and PEN BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Hobnail Cut-Glass Bottles, £2. Other
Styles, 30s, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 ss, £4, £5.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiniiiiiii
A
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation MANICURE SET, Solid Silver, Hand-
somely Pierced, comprising' 8 Pieces (all Silver), in
Silk-lined Leather Case, £4 10s. Other Styles, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £6.
9
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET.
Opposite
Railway
Station.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANGHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll6.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
' '-Tint-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Inability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. 0. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,46 L assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses - eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A. J.
Oallan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. Y. RALSTON.
The Bank of Borth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Bums, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1
(Invested in Government Stock) f
20,000
£370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDIi. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direators—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Olynb ; Adelaide, W. N.
M'Farlanb ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Offioe
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES .»■
SWEETHEATS
/24 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’sAuetion Boom.
tPNDOH
This
Trade
Mark
X
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
N. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 28th OCTOBER.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 25th NOVEMBER.
♦PRINZ SIQISMUND, 3300 tons.. 23rd DECEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to tiie Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ril Try It:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10a. 6d.
80LH AGENTS.
Tk* Retult.
CRAIG A. AITKEIM. N.S. W. Barber’s Supplj
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYD.MEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
h
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
3rd NOVEMBER,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, Ac., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
LIKTB
QCE AINTIO S.S. Co. A.. and A-
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, OCTOBER 23.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
WT~ CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Through
Picturesque
Islands.
To Singapore, via Torres
Straits and Dutch East In-
dies ! A truly delightful trip,
and one that can now be made
with perfect comfort. The
steamers Airlie and Guthrie,
which are fitted with all elec-
trical and cold storage con-
veniences, leave Sydney alter-
nately every month. The
total cost for the round trip
is £4O, or £25 single to Java
or Singapore.
IBS
,-rt
.... , ~m ■■- .
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.;
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
Upon - all - Classes - of
’ Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
W.S.W.
(|)ont de pete
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITKJD. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability- of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Building's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
fetal Capital
... £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
Oct. 30, Nov. 27, Dec. 25.
UPPER DECK ROOMS FOR FIRST &
SECOND=CLASS PASSENGERS.
The Accommodation is not Equalled on
Any Other Line.
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE ROUTE TO
AMERICA AND ENGLAND.
The Great Scenic Beauties of the World
are on the
CANADIAN-PACIFIC RAILWAY.
iST WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Illustrated Pamphlets furnished Free.
♦
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character —very
superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co. f
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager, rs^
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney -
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, >
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Allinga, October 13.
S.S. Coolgardie, October 17.
S.S. Yongala (from Mel-
bourne), October 25.
BRISBANE.
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, r
And Ports North to Oairns. I
S.S. Marloo, October 14.
S.S. Allinga, October 20.
Best and Cheapest Houle to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-St.ate Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. 3. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime s
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contraot with the
French Governmenc, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Onina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meed
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them bo Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are ail on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con>
venient and Healthy Locality,
Modern Appointments. Moderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comror and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
sr. KILDA.
tpHE Largest and i>est-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Free.


iS!
US
K
FITS
Line
juice
AGENTS:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
J. Connell & Co.,
Sydney.
0. Cohan & Co.,
NewcasHa.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of Infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 38 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 38 years’ proven efficacy,
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
FRE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by tb ifc justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they liiai OURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROLLLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S3r:iD^rs^r.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
ĥ
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the min .s of others, control friendship
and affectum, cure disease and bad habits,
i gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
, ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
! Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free < f charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout thi marvelous science. It contains
be ut ful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accompli h. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Eemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you noth ng. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valu°ble, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifer.’ m*.
Write to-day. Address—
ħ
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, b 9 Pitt St Sydney-
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, Gd. ; Posted, 8d
TO YOU FREE! A Solid Silver Watch.
h
ĥ
ħ
TO introduce our Catalogue into as many homes as
possible, we have decided to give away 1000 Solid
Silver Watches to persons of either sex who send in the
correct solution of the following puzzle :
OXR WXXCXXS AXE TXE BXXT.
The only condition is that, if your answer is correct,
you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to
wear with the watch. We make this condition because
we want our Catalogue to get into the hands of reputable
persons only. These watches are not toys, but Solid
Silver, and Fully Guaranteed. Early application is neces-
sary. Forward your letter, and enclose a self-addressed
envelope and 2 penny stamps for reply, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
Address: Puzzle Competition,
ARTHUR PRYME & CO.
Wholesale & Retail
Jewellers, Etc.,
A.F. PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
h
a..
1
r-S
£
S
%
J*
/ V
X
Do X
You
Want
New
Life?
Do
You
Want to,
Be a
Strong*,
Healthy
Being ?
EVEN unto Old Age you may feel the Vigor of Youth, with its light heart, elastic
step, courage, and tireless energy. You may be strong and free from pains and
aches, and defy your years. There is a fountain of youth to be obtained by
using Electricity, and it is within the reach of every sufferer. If you will, you can be
made as vigorous as any man living.
dr. McLaughlins electric belt
Pours glowing, exhilarating Vitality into you. It builds up broken-down people. It
will drive Rheumatic Pains, Sciatica, and such like from the body, and will restore
the I.iver, Kidneys, and Stomach to a healthy condition.
Elderslie,
BRANXTON, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—Your Belt has done me a
great deal of good. I feel no pains in any
part of my body now, and I am strong and
can work hard. My appetite is good, I can
sleep well, and my digestive organs are
splendid, thanks to Dr. McLaughlin’s Elec-
tric Belt. Yours truly,
M. M. BOURKE.
Gladstone Road,
BRISBANE, Q.
Dear Sirs,—This is to inform you that
your Electric Belt has done me a lot of
good. I have only had it two months and I
feel a different man. I can sleep and walk,
and my appetite is good. I would advise
every man to have one of your Belts, as I
am 70 years of age. Thanking you very
much, Yours truly, J. H. BERRY.
FREE BOOK
OUR BOOK explains
fully the advantages
of this treatment. We
will send you one Free
and Postage Paid on
application.
We have a most complete system of
HOME TREATMENT, and have cured
thousands of Men and Women
without ever seeing them.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.,
100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Free Advice
CALL any Week-Day
from 9 a.m. to 8.30
p.m. Our Specialist
will ADVISE you, and
explain the cause of
your Trouble, FREE.
And at 167 E. SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH, W.A.
54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford
Harry Joseph Crawford
Rupture Sufferers j
T OFFER the most indisputable proof that the
SHERMAN METHOD is the only proper,
safe, sure and certain treatment for RUPTURE
in any stage and on anybody.
£ CAN show you letters from eminent Medical
Authorities in all parts of the world—from
professors in famous colleges—from the general
public, who have adopted the SHERMAN
METHOD and been cured by it.
DO YOU
WANT
PROOF ?
THE
SHERMAN
METHOD.
SEND FOR TWO FREE
BOOKS ON RUPTURE,
“ A Warning and Guido
to the Ruptured ”
and
“ Indisputable
Testimony. ”
Ssnt Free to Sufferers,
Try the SHERMAN METHOD of Curing Rupture*
CONSULTATIONS FREE.
HOURS—Daily (Sundays excepted) from 10 a.m. tq. 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
EXTRA HOURS—Tuesday and Eriday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
12.30 noon.
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Co-operating Wool & Produce Co., Sydney.
A BONA FIDE PASTORALISTS’ INSTITUTION.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
ĥ
• w
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining: membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neural gia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE. AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS lIOW TO CURE IT.
I ft's
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English *Cu re tor GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part..
Manufactured in England by Prout and Go., C 2.3
Strand, London, and sold at Is. and 2s. Od. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist <or ©into
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Making Money
I was bom on a Maine farm. I have made some
great successes in business. My greatest through.
Co-operation.
I took $1,500 ($306:2:6) capital, supplied by
Farmers, Women, Physicians, Clerks, Clergymen,,
etc., in Belfast, Maine, and in an honest, but very
profitable business, earned and paid them through
BELFAST NATIONAL BANK, $5,000 ($1,020:8:2)
in Cash dividends in the first six months, $25,000
($5,102:0:10, in cash dividends within the next
year, and in 18 months X paid them in round
numbers $330,000.00 (£67,346:19:2) CASH..
Every 4s. Earned £44:17s
This is HISTORY. Heads
like a fairy tale but it is
TRUE. I made poor
people rich. They helped
me earn the riches. Just
read that over again. I
had $1,500. I earned
and paid my stockholders
$330,000 in cash in 18
months. Every stock-
holder got their share..
That’s my Way of doing
business. You must be-
lieve this statement is*
TRUE,for, if I were lying,,
I wouldn’t tell you the
place where I earned the
money, and the BANK
where it was paid.
I have learned the great
Value of the right kind of
co-operation, learned how
to make money fast in an
honest, profitable busi-
ness from which millions
are made every year.
I now have a new busi-
ness of the same kind,
only my field is the World.
It is incorporated under
the laws of the State of
Maine and the IJ. S. Gov’t. The Stockholders are
absolutely protected from any liability. They are
safe guarded by law. My plan one of extended co-
operation. Stockholders everywhere who can give
me information and lend their INFLUENCE. The
dividends must be large.
I already have 4.000 stockholders in the U. S.,
Canada, England, Cuba, Mexico, Sandwich Islands,
Gibraltar, etc. I want a few more. The shares
are going fast. You can invest 4s. or £IOO.
Monthly payments, if you wish. It will be safe
and we will make it grow. This is no gambling
or “shady” scheme. It’s legitimate business.
You will be treated squarely and honestly.
I place 30 years of untarnished business record
behind that statement. I only ask you in your
own interest to INVESTIGATE. You shall have all
the Proof you want. References, Bankers, Bus-
iness Men, Church and Public Officials, etc. Send
your address on a postal card. It will pledge
you to nothing. It may mean your fortune. I
will send a 24-page book,
“A Guide to Full Pockets,”
FREE. I Will pay the postage. Don’t be “A Brother
to the Ox.” Stop plodding. Lift your head long
enough to ask me to prove every statement in this
ad. This is your opportunity, don’t miss it. Don’t
Wait if you want something betterthanyouhavegot.
E. E. Hanson, 142-160 W. Madison Street,
Chicago, 111., TJ. S. A.
* i
E. E'. Hanson, Ex-Mayor
of Belfast, Me..TJ.S.A.
Ex-Pres. B. & M.L. B. K.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following- subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for suffereis to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation.
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M k ß n £ s
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.


IN HOT CLIMATES ~
where a good antiseptic soap is ofted
more a necessity than a luxury,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent
Carbolic Soap
has a ready sale, on account of its
refreshing qualities, and the protec-
tion its use gives against mosquito
bites. It contains 20% Crystal Car-
bolic, and is useful for insect bites
or stings, ringworm, itch, &c.
Calvert’s Disinfecting Powder
is guaranteed to contain 15% Carbolic and
so is cheap to use as it need only be lightly
sprinkled to destroy noxious and unpleas-
ant odours and prevent the approach of
infection. £ lb., 1 lb. and a lb. tins.
F. C.
CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England.
THE LONDON TREATMENT
FOR THE
Drug fjddiction
EVERYONE interested in tlie work of
Reclaiming Victims of DRINK or
DRUG HABIT should be familiar with the
Treatment used at the London Institute.
Full particulars sent Post Free on appli-
cation. Address—
H. W. BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, Masterton,
New Zealand.
WILL ANDRADE ™ BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is,
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLINC CAROS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with ful directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
II
vS
ft
7» /i
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring-Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanical
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post 8d
God and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor; Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
MANNING’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
The most complete work ever published. 1905 Edition. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases—their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 10/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
B.S
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung:
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing- stamps, to BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of £N CBGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL for 90 PAYS
UM
IVS
/
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-
card with your name and we will arrange to
forward you at once one of our latest Improved
High Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it
three months then pay us if cured, and the price
will be only half what others ask for their inferior
belts. If not cured, you return the belt to us
at our expense and your word will decide. We
are willing to trust you entirely, knowing that
we have the best and most perfect belt ever
invented, and nine men in ten always pay
when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all cases
of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and Stomach
Complaints, Nervousness and all weaknesses of men and women.
WE WILL GIVE FREE
to each person writing us one copy of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book, which should
be read by all men and women. Drop us a post-card, and we will send it to you Free in plain
wrapper. If you are weak in any way, delay no longer, but write to-day for our splendid
and Belt—Free. Write to-day, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. m.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
World’s Greatest Dwelling Architects.
SEND 2s. P.O. Order for our Big 4s. Book, “Modern Homes,” containing 170 Designs of Modern Dwellings,
built in wood, stone, brick, half wood and half stone and cement stone—showing views and floor plans and
estimated cost of each house. The largest Architectural Publication in the world. It is our business to make
plans and specifications for dwellings, business and public buildings of all kinds. Our 23 years of experience in
planning houses enables us to make plans accurately for building in any part of the world. The house shown
below has been built over 800 times for £240. We will mail you, post paid, Full Blue Print Working
Plans and Specifications, complete for £2.
xttchM-
©l7lt/fG
tS. 14
IS. 15
P>aßl°D
lA2ZA
Inm.
ftSoR
All rooms open into hall
with grille arches between
dining room, parlor and
hall.
This Plan can he Reversed to Suit Any Location.
d3>CD WoQfi[
Jl>ed
_J
j@>ed!3! o m
t£L\S3
<SC(e/1D fu%U
Three comfortable cham-
bers, 2nd floor.
All you have to do is to send 2s. for the book, “ Modern Homes,” which contains all information about
building- a home. Write for our new hook, “ Public Buildings,” which contains designs and plans of Schools,
Churches, Stores, Gaols, Office and Public Buildings of all kinds and descriptions. It also contains a series of
designs in high-priced dwellings, costing above £2OOO. This book has just been issued, and contains the latest
and most practical designs in business buildings and fine dwellings. We send this, post paid, for only 4s.
Established
1882.
J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Architects,
Grand Ftap-ds, Mich
Porter Block.
Subscribe for ART IN ARCHITECTURE, a monthly publication, 4s. per year, devoted to artistic homes and
home furnishings. J. H. DAVERMAN & SON, Publishers.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
I\l EVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book*.
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
“Crackajack
Mouth Organs
The '* Crackajack” illustrated below presents not only the very latest improvements,
but is unquestionably the best and most beautiful toned Mouth Organ made.
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. The frames
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the re&d plates are solid
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through^-"''
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass,
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed. It is impossible \
to fully describe these '
instruments and their
musical qualities.
They must be seen
and used to be
appreciated. We
I can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
m
m
'ir&Z
m
m
■ft** 1
&0
,t° s
31"
G**'
.G*
G*
pfG
ft'
.o^
Made in Four Styles
POSTED TO ANY
ADDRESS IN THE
WORLD FOR 4D.
EXTRA
No. I GracKaiack Professional, 40 Reeds 3/-
No. 2 Grackajack Senior, 20 Reeds • 2/-
No. 3 Grackajack Junior, 20 Reeds • 1/6
No. 4 Boss Cracker • - • 1/*
ALLAN & CO., 276=278 Collins St., Melbourne.
h
DO IT NOW!
SPECIAL OFFER from the
Coldsmiths Colonial Co.
CONTROLLING the Largest Stocks of Jewellery and Fancy
Goods in the Commonwealth, we have decided upon a unique
method of reducing our surplus stock and job lines, previous to
stock-taking. W ith this end in view, we are sending out job line
parcels of Jewellery, &c., in packets of 10/-, 15/- and 20/- each.
We undertake to present each purchaser of a parcel with a
Valuable Present, FREE. In the 15/-or 20/-parcel this will
take the form of a Lady’s or Gent’s Watch, fully warranted. In
the 10/- parcel we present a Solid Gold Ring or Brooch.
Send at once, as this offer is only open for a short
period, and we want to give our friends the benefit of
our clearance, besides gaining fresh customers to
whom we can send our Catalogue, and increase our
mail order business.
ĥ
ħ
Success is with those who realise their opportunity, and seize it.
DO NOT DELAY. 10/- 15/- 20/- DO IT NOW.
ADDRESS—
The Goldsmiths Colonial Co., Pitt St., Sydney.
m
*SQ.
THE
‘PLUM’
h
THE
‘PLUM’
QENTLEMEN, This razor is superior to. any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
, ; | ke , ~ )e ’ and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
•ft re< H7p e^TT C H. n A T??v,Tr a ,\ e ’ and ’ having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. VYE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7* 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
(Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of
the World.
2*' Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
soLEffiMNTs: CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY


a
i
MOTHERS WHO CARE
FOR THEIR CHILDREN
will give them at the first appearance of a cough or cold,
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs, Colds
and Consumption. For Croup and Whooping Cough it
always gives quick relief and is a reliable remedy to always
have in the house in case of need. Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery is prepared according to the prescription of one
of America’s most eminent physicians, and is guaranteed to
contain no injurious drugs of any description.
As it is most delicious to take, mothers will never have
any difficulty in giving it to their children, and will find full direc-
tions and doses with each bottle for treating Coughs, Colds,
Croup, Difficult Breathing and Whooping Cough. Some night
it might save your child’s life, therefore would it not be wise to
always keep a bottle on hand ?
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
For COUGHS, COLDS and CONSUMPTION
is Sold, everywhere at 1/6 and 3/-
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
m.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
' By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. .400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting thei r physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cl )th-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter W riter U p-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |ST" Established 20 Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. LoVe and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’sF'reemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, is post. French
Art Studies. 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
IrSw
N
W.DUHRUIia
nQUBMg
Gunmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. gs*
y!U’ mu—n—- m
Warranted equal to any £lO lOs.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
(Cockle’s Rntibilious Pills.— ►
** I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY- Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
J'Jje Xarjcat describes it cs—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
British jtfedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD AtEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
h
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd lhe AGED.
Benoek's rooD is sold in Tics
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
Reports laid before N.S.AY. Parliament
chow that most of the iron ores estimated to be
available for manufacture in the State are the
property of private persons or companies. The
mineral rights at Wingello and Queanbeyan are
reserved by the State, but the other large deposits
are either private or part private. Out of an esti-
mated known total of 51,841,000 tons the State
has had the forethought to reserve only 4,000,000
tons. Yet almost since N.S.W. had a Parliament
demands have been made that the State should
not part with its rights in minerals.
The aftermath of Ryabram “reform.”
Every second public servant in Victoria is either
leaving the service or has ideas in that direction.
This is especially so in the Railways and Educa-
tion Departments—the former on account of long
hours and short pay ; the latter on account of the
cessation of promotion in the lower grades of the
service. Fifty pier cent, of teachers in Vic. Edu-
cation Department are “temporary” accoiding to
Topp’s “ Public Service Report.” For 12 years
no promotion from Class VI. (small country
school) to Class V. (rather larger country school)
has been made, and none is possible for another
five years. No promotion for 17 years makes Vic.
teachers look round for other lines of industry be-
fore they become too grey-headed to shift. Pay-
ment by results has been abolished for three years,
still teachers are supposed to be paid by results,
and aren’t paid much any other way. Education
Minister Sachse’s new Teachers’ Bill contains a
clause allowing for certain expenditure in matters
educational; when this expenditure rises beyond
a certain point all teachers are to be reduced to
make things square. For three years the Vic.
Education Department has had a Director, but
the Education hulk drifts worse than when con-
trolled by late Secretary Bagge.
Some aphorisms :
Do not scream too loudly for Justice on the other Man-
The Blind are quick to trace sounds, and—one never
kl Envy not the “ Man Who Broke The Bank.” Unless
you know how much he had to steal to break it.
Do not get out of the tram-car on the wrong side, to
save Time. You are laying the odds. Five seconds to
Eternity—bad business 1 . .
You can only commit suicide once. Therefore do not
make a mess of the job. .
It was once said: “ Hide not your light . . . that \■ ur
works may be seen.” Nowadays it is: “Light not your
works that your hide may be unseen.” „
“ ‘ Vanity 1 Vanity ! All is Vanity,’ saith the Preacher.
He held the next number to the winner in the big sweep.
It is Virtue when Dives pities Lazarus. Dives has a
liking for cheap Virtue. He made his money that way.
“ The First Love is the Best Love.” But the other
Loves are better than none.
“ Public Debt is the Hypothecation of Posterity, the
Interest an annual Slaughter of the Innocents, and the
Pawnbroker the likeliest Survivor of the Lot.
“ O ” : I was considering some pictures in
the Sydney Art Gallery last Sunday. There
seems to be something wrong with Seymour
Lucas’ “ Armada in Sight.” The bowlers look all
right, but I don’t see the little house that a lady
temperance lecturer said always existed in connec-
tion with a bowling-green. The only suspicion of
refreshments is a little jug, and a little jar, and a
little glass (that would hold about l|d. worth of
stout) resting on a rough bench. If the artist is
correct, bowlers must have changed greatly since
the time of Elizabeth. A queer thing about
Howard of Effingham is that he is wearing spurs.
I expect he went to sea on horseback.
An odd note from Singapore :
The leading characteristics of this “ smellful ” city—the
last button of Asia’s jacket, so to speak—are blue houses,
red dust and pig-tails. England is not good to Singapore I
As it is a Crown Colony all the revenue (such as it is in a
Freetrade port), goes in big guns for defence purposes.
Ki money is available for drainage, hence Singapore
smells. The footpaths except in the principal thorough-
fares are the same as when Sir Stamford Raffles founded
the place in 1819, four years after Waterloo. Such a
thing as electric light (unless you have a private installa-
tion) is unknown. The majority of the inhabitants still
use Rockefeller’s oil.
But Singapore is going to have an electric tram service
if the Chinese will allow the cars to run. Some
“rickshaw” owners have spread the report that 500
Chinese heads are required at the power house before the
machinery can be put in motion. This has established a
“ funk ” among the coolies. After dark they will not pull
you in their “ shaws " for fear you will behead them with
a big knife from behind. When the first car appeared to
take its trial trip it was derailed and toppled over an
embankment. Another car followed suit the next day,
Singapore is utterly devoid of amusement. The haw-
haw Britisher takes his “ stengah ” (Malay for whisky and
soda) at his club, turns his trousers up when it rains and
imagines he is in the best society. The hotels are very
poor. The Airlie and the Guthrie bring us Australian
frozen meat once in six weeks, but somehow or other,
chiefly through mismanagement, it doesn’t seem to catch
on.
Talking of dead meat, a good many Australian jockeys
make their wav to Singapore for the races, then to Penang
and to Calcutta for the Viceroy’s Cup. Two jockeys,
Holley and Ruddings (are they Australians?) were bitten
by a mad dog in Penang the other day, and were shipped
off immediately to Saigon, where they will undergo treat-
ment at the Pasteur Institute. The rabies scare at Penang
is at fever heat, and lots of people are getting hydropho-
bia without having been bitten at all. This is a special
disease of its own. France is ahead of England in some
respects, and the Pasteur Institute at Saigon might well
be imitated in India and Further India, where rabies is by
no means uncommon.


“CLOTHCS OF
QUALITY”^*
I
'
From the designing of the pattern
To the adjusting of a button,
London Tailoring is the product
Of system intelligently applied
By Tailors who have developed
A Talent for the Fashioning
Of Distinctive and Individual
Garments for Men.
A THOUSAND PATTERNS.
Selection with simple Measure-
ment Forms Posted FREE.
LONDON .
TAILORING DEPOT
“ Melbourne
ONLY ADDRESS IN STATES.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
AN OFFER to SUFFERING MEN
Which Does Not Cost
a Single Penny!!
THE SPECIALISTS OF i
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE
k
k.
r
1
The Director & Principal of Institutes,
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN.
who are Diplomaed from some of
the greatest and most scientific
Colleges and Schools of Science in
Great Britain, America and the
Continent, and who are Experts in
the Correct and Speedy Treatment
and Cure of Grave Diseases or
Disorders of Men, will give to any
man who may be in doubt as to his
physical condition, and who may be
suffering from any disease which
threatens his health permanently,
Advice Free, and counsel him how
to act to recover the Strength which
is at all times necessary for the
faithful performance of all social
and domestic duties.
We have several expert Specialists who
are paid high salaries in order to treat
you, and we have Four Legally Qualified
Physicians attached to our Medical Staff.
Come personally if you can ; if you can-
not call, write fully the nature and
symptoms of your ailment; a quick and
certain cure is always possible by our
perfect Correspondence System. A man
may be treated in his own house by this
method as well as if he visited the
Specialists personally. We make no
charge for friendly talks. Read the
testimonies we publish. They prove our
skill and honesty, and guarantee our
reliability in intricate medical cases.
m
The Physlclan-in-Chlef of Institutes,
DR. RICHARD WALLACE.
We will be pleased to give all particulars and ADVICE FREE to bo.na fide sufferers concerning our
new and special treatment, which, has been so successful in curing THOUSANDS OF YOUNG, MIDDI>E«
AGED, and OLD MEN from Chronic Nervousness, Blood and Skin Diseases, Loss of Memory, Low Spirits,
Loss of Vigor, Muscular Weaknesses, Mental and Bodily Prostration, Affections of Kidneys and Bladder,
Rupture, Piles, Varicocele, Prostatic Affections, Melancholia, Insomnia, and other complaints.
Men whose eyes are dulled, whose brains are muddled and weary, whose nervous energy is. exhausted
from dissipation, overwork, or disobedience to Nature’s laws, who have lost the sprightly enjoyment of
life, who have sleepless nights, dull, gloomy, despondent days, who have lost courage, ambition, and the
grit which is so evident in perfect manhood; men ■who have BLOOD and SKIN TROUBLES, and other
complaints. If you have failed to derive any benefit from other treatments, and have wasted both time and
money, we offer you a COMPLETE and PERMANENT CURB, which will NOT COST YOU A PENNY
for CORRECT DIAGNOSIS. If you suffer do not put this aside, and say I will see to it later on, but at
once take advantage of our system of Home Treatment, and if p<nsible have a personal interview. Our
Consulting Rooms are open MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, 10 a.m.
to 9 p,nt.; SATURDAY, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., and 7to 9 p.nt.; SUNDAY by special appointment only.
If you are living too far away to visit, write at once, in strict confidence, giving full particulars of your trouble, and
you will receive a plain and distinct statement of what we can do for you.
We never supply our Remedies for Cases we cannot Cure. We have made so thorough and complete a study of Diseases
and Troubles of Men, that failure is almost impossible. We do not claim to perform miracles, but what we do claim is that
our Remedies Cure the Most Obstinate Cases when all other means fail.
The Strictest Confidence May be Relied Upon.
We have References from everv district in the Colonies.
Read the Testimonials we publish—they are selected from hundreds received. Almost every post brings us fresh
evidence of our success; but, remember, under no circumstance do we make use of letters unless we have distinct per-
mission to do so.
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating thousands of cases annually, and is it not reasonable to suppose that we understand such cases better than those who
are treating only a few hundred ? Practice makes perfect in any line, and it is ncine the less true in the treatment of disease. You get the
benefit of Experience when you place your case in our hands. Do not despair. o.*der your treatment at once, and let us add your name to
our long list of cures. „ „ -
* • • * * * • • • •
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will not cure •you, it is a duty you owe to yourself to write to some of
the references we publish, and send an addressed envelope for reply. Ask any of the attestants who have given testimonies to us it they
think we can benefit you. We court the closest investigation. Our Parcel Poet System is a blessing to all sick men living in centres tar
from medical men and aid. Thousands of men would now be in their graves had. we not reached and treated them by our Parcel Post bystem.
Condensed Report of Operation
for Ulcer in Bladder
Performed by Dr. Wallace and Staff
upon Mr. H. C .
(Surname furnished privately, if necessary.)
This patient was a terrible sufferer, experiencing all the incon-
veniences Inflammation of the Bladder in its worst form would
cause. Had been to several doctors, receiving no relief.
Here is Dr. Wallace’s own extract:—
“ I placed the patient on examination table, noted following
facts:
Bladder distended by urine, but no Stricture. Prostate
gland enlarged. Urine showed Inflammation of Bladder and
Congestion of Kidneys, caused through stoppage of fluid,
accompanied by agonising pain. Result of examination after
searching for Stone with electric Endescope. No stone and
no gravel.
Lit up Urethral Canal, found it congested, not diseased.
Examined electrically after washing out with clear salt
solution. Every fraction of the Mucus Membrane reflected in
mirror as plainly as if Bladder had been cut open to the eye.
Found on inner side of main curve of Bladder Canal, a small
but deep ulcer. This was the seat of trouble. Patient under
treatment seven weeks. Medicated application to Ulcer until
it healed perfectly. Bladder and Prostate Medicated. Later,
internal remedies to regulate Kidney action and sterilise-
urine. Five years after received an additional testimonial to;
one presented on patient’s recovery to health.”
Extract from same
“ Dear Dr. Wallace and Staff, —Enclosed you will; find
my photograph. I think that is sufficient testimony as to
your skill and ability. lam well and happy.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ HiC.’*
Any man suffering from any form of disease of the Urinary
Organs should write personally to Dr. Wallace and his Medical
Staff. All particulars free by post.
Remarks on Men’s Diseases
And Operations by the Freeman & Wallace
Staff of Physicians and Surgeons.
There is no branch of medicine in which absolute keenness of
diagnosis and a thorough understanding of every detail of a case
is so essential as in the treatment of diseases of the Genito-
"Urinary Organs.
*****
It is now over 25 years since the Specialists of the
Freeman & Wallace Institute initiated their particular
.specialty— Diseases of Men —and in that time they have operated
•in Australia alone on over 8000 cases of Varicocele and Stricture.
Many other operations they enumerate, difficult and dangerous
feats of the Genito-Urinary Surgery.
Their treatment as regards Varicocele by Painless, Non-
cutting, Non-contracting and Bloodless operation is generally
approved of. .
They have been operating successfully for complicated cases of
Varicocele, and have seldom failed to cure a case, however long a
time it had existed. .
They have operated on patients from the age of six to the age
’ of 84 years, in some cases where the disease had existed for over
40 years. ...
As a Medical Institute they challenge any Firm in the
' world to show so large a number of cases or such an unbroken
line of successes.
• * * *
Some Questions Asked.— For the benefit of some
patients who keep asking questions, there is no Cutting or Blood
Poisoning ; absolutely no pain. . .
The operation far Stricture or Varicocele never injures the
power; that power is improved, wasting of parts stopped, blood
circulated through healthy channels, no confinement in house or
bed, and patients can return home, even if distant one thousand
: miles, on the following day.
* * * * *
Correspondence. —All letters are supervised by Dr.
.Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., 8., L.F.P.S., £.,
,£../! 1. f our Physicianj-in-Chief. He is registered by Australian
’ Medical Boards, England and America. His Medical Work,
“ Clinical. Experiences,” a book of 600 pages, 31
chapters, onUeneifd 150 medical illustrations, posted
FREE upon application to any address.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE MUST BE ADDRESSED I
The Freeman & Wallace Electro-fit Jedical & Surgical Institute
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREE TS, SYDNEY,. And at MELBOURNE.
Howard Freeman, Director; Dr. Ed. Wallace, M.D., Physician-in-Cluef; Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D.,-Specialists in Diseases of Women & Children.
Both Sydney morning papers now give, in
addition to the news in brief (very brief) of the
world, the political lies, the latest in Stinking
Fish yarns, and the correspondence as to Whether
Infants Should Be Boiled, an agricultural page and
a woman’s page; likewise dog, poultry, flower*
garden, and church facts. The Domain dosser
welcomes all these innovations. A Sydney paper
is nowadays about as large and cheap a penn’orth
of warmth as can be got in the world.
A writer who intends to be consolatory to
the spinster:—
The sighing S. Australian spinster who looks under the
bed for a man makes a mistake ; last thing at night she
ought to look out of the window, to see if it seems like
rain. Until there are tens of thousands more factory-
hands to use up the raw goods that Australia produces,
it will have to depend upon its exports. Now, weather
governs the size of the exports ; and, according to the
books in the Adelaide office where they keep that State’s
marriage records, the size of the exports governs almost
absolutely the number of weddings. Given a 10-
bushel harvest and a good wool-clip, and up jumps
the marriage-rate until the next drought happens
along—and, alas for the sighing spinster, it isn’t
long between droughts in S. Australia. Mere man
isn’t, therefore, of nearly as much importance to the
S. Australian spinster as decent showers of rain dropped
on the right places at the right times. This rule is so old
in Adelaide that it wears crinolines. In 1884 the exports
were £l7 Bs. lOd. per head, and the marriage rate 8‘42
per thousand ; next year exports dropped to £l4 4s. 2d.,
and marriages to 7'93 per 1000; the year after that
exports were £9 ss. lid., and weddings a ghastly 6'51.
Then the weather began to behave better, and exports
rose to £l4 16s. per head, and weddings improved again to
7'31; and so things have been see-sawing until, in 1897,
with exports down to £7 4s. 4d., the marriage rate was
5'66, which was the worst thing in the way of statistics that
the S. Australian wallflowers ever wilted under. Matters
have been improving a trifle the last few years ; hut it
takes more exports to bring a man up to the scratch now-
adays than it used to ; a £l4-per-head record used to
mean close upon nine weddings per 1000 people, but now
it only means an average of six and a decimal. The fact,
no doubt, is that the modern young man gets less advan-
tage from his exports than the former young man used
to—the former young man who didn’t have to pay Uncle
Cohen so much for a public debt that isn’t earning its
own bread-and-butter. But this is drifting into a financial
paragraph.


HAVEC r
YOU IM D
A <5 LEG
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
submit to amputation; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don’t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
it is no reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a cei tain cure of
BadLegs,Housemaid’sKnee,UlceratedJoints,Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look for the Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
•n a green label on each box. (Registered Copyright).
MM
..
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-58 Elizabeth Street.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M. P. Building, Perth.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write -for Catalogue.
TOHN SANDS, 374 George St«, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
True Economy!
IT is sheer folly to continue endur-
* ing colds, coughs, throat, lung,
«kin and blood troubles, languor
and weakness, with all the attend-
ant expense, when you can make
a clean sweep of them all simply
by using Scott’s Emulsion of cod
liver oil with glycerine and the hy-
pophospliites of lime and soda.
Scott’s Emulsion
is doubly economical. Firstly, be-
cause of its perfect digestibility,
Scott’s Emulsion enables the sys-
tem to derive the full benefit of the
oil, instead of allowing a large per-
centage to pass through undigested
and therefore wasted, as happens
with the plain oil aiid inferior pre-
parations. Secondly, Scott’s Emul-
sion cures the trouble and therefore
instantly puts an end to the terrible
expense which attends illness.
4.
ne
This glowing'
letter, dated June
16th, 1904, is from
Mrs. J. Hayes,Har-
den, N.S. W.—“ My
son suffered for
two years with a
cold on his lungs,
ha rd racki ngcough
with pain in the
chest, between his
shoulders,and near
| his heart. He had
Ino appetite and
could not sleep. I
purchased many
so-called ‘ reme-
dies ’ but he ob-
tained no relief.
Scott’s Emulsion
agreed with him
from the first dose.
Now the cough has
_ entirely left him,
Hie has a splendid ap-
petite, sleeps well and
has gained consider-
ably in weight."
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
fis not a mocK
[remedy, but a
real remedy,and
therefore the
only economical
remedy.
Write to-day for a free
sample bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and
mentioning this paper)
to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
N.S W CUt St ’’ Sydney '
riORE LETTERS FROM WOMEN.
From Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet, 135 Gouger Street, Adelaide, S.A., 2nd December, 1904
“ It affords me great pleasure to testify as to the great and lasting benefit I derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure, after suffering for many years from constitutional breakdown and nervous pros-
tration, brought on by mental worry and family troubles. I have been the mother of fourteen children
and had lost my husband, so was compelled to support my family by my own unaided efforts. This
seemed a burden greater than I could bear, but I struggled on until I became so weak and ill that I
could scarcely drag myself through my duties. Then my hands and feet began to swell, and I could
not walk without a stick to support me. Finally the time came when I had to take to my bed. A
doctor was called in, who gave but little hope of my recovery. A friend who came to,see me advised
me to take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure. She seemed to have such great faith in the medicine that
I began to hope that it would benefit me, and therefore commenced to take it. In a few weeks I
• could hardly realise that I was the same woman. I was able to get up and walk about without the aid
of any support. My strength returned, and I felt that I had been granted a new lease of life. After
taking seven bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure I became assured that I was quite well, and once more able
to battle with life for my family, who were dependent upon me.”
From Mrs. Claria E. Horne, Wentworth Street, Plattsburg, Newcastle, N.S.W., lGth March, 1905.
“ For a long time I suffered almost daily from nervousness, giddiness, and headaches which were
almost unbearable, accompanied by great lassitude and mental depression, brought on, no doubt, by
the influence of the law of nature applying to women of middle age. Fortunately I was recommended
to take Warner’s Safe Cure, and was astonished at the great relief I obtained. Continuing to take
the medicine, I was soon free from any distressing ailments, and able to go about my work as well as
? V0r * . recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to many women, who have taken it with the same
beneficial result ”
From Mrs. Annie Harrison, 54 Campbell Street, Balmain, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth March, 1905.
r * * have suffered as many other women have from the effects of rearing a familv of children, com-
plicated by disorders of the liver, constipation, headaches and depression of spirits. ' Quite frequently,
whilst working about the house, I would have to sit down and rest until faintness passed. About' a
year ago 1 suffered almost torture from pain in my back and head, scarcely knowing a moment’s peace.
A friend, knowing my condition, recommended a trial of Warner’s Safe Cure. The advice was
adopted, and after taking a few bottles of the medicine, a most favorable change took place. Continu-
mg he treatment, I continuously improved in health, until now all my previous troubles have left me
and I am in good health.”
From Mrs. J. N. Thomas, 84 Oroya-street, Boulder City, W.A., 17th October, 1904.
len years ago I was taken ill, and consulted a leading doctor in Adelaide. I described to him
my symptoms, an intense pain in my right side, accompanied by a swelling or feeling of lightness, the
pam being so severe that I could not lie on that side nor get my proper rest or sleep, also that I had
begun to lose flesh rapidly. The doctor diagnosed the case as being one of hydatids or of tumor of the
liver, and said that in either case I should have to undergo an operation. He strongly advised me to
go to the hospital and be further examined. I went to the hospital, and the doctor there confirmed
h r°i- h r T?. t 1 0r said in respect to an operation being the only means by which I could be
cured, l did not like the idea of an operation, and promised to think about it, and let them know my
decision On leaving the hospital I met a friend and told her what the doctors had said. She advised
me not to have an operation performed, but to go home and take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure, as
she was sure it would cure me. She inspired me with such confidence that I resolved to take her
fh '? c ®’ Procured a few bottles of the medicine. I was, however, so weak when I returned home
that l had to go to bed, where I remained for a week, but during that time I took Warner’s Safe
['"f. 7 re S ula . r ln a short time I began to feel easier and better, and by the time that I
*j n Sl , x - u ruj of medl pi, ne the pain had all gone. I could eat and sleep and enjoy my rest
had ? 0 * been a,)le to do for many months previous. Since that time I have been in
good bodily health, and able to attend to my household duties.”
From Mrs. Bridget A. Nolan, 62 Lyons-street, Ballarat South, Vic., 17th February, 1905.
About eight years ago I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure for indigestion and for a chill. I
suttered also from weakness and prostration, general debility, nervousness, sleepless nights, and
depression of spirits. I could not even help myself. Several doctors had attended me for about five
years, and l had got tired of throwing my money away without any good result. I first had one
advice and then another but all were without avail. Through reading a Warner’s Safe Cure book I
began to take Warner s Safe Cure, but with litle hope that it would do me any good, but the first
bottle made such a wonderful change in me that I continued to take the medicine until I was com-
pletely cured. I am thankful that I took Warner’s Safe Cure, and gladly recommend it to any
woman who may be suffering as I did.” J
From Mrs. H. Harriott 22 Surry-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th September, 1904.
i , or . i , ree y ears I suffered from severe pains in my back and head. I could scarcely get any
t t a PPetite was very poor. Finally I got so bad that I could scarcely move about
1 tried doctors, but could get no relief. I was then advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure I did so, and'
teit relief after the first few doses. After taking only four bottles of your valuable Warner’s Safe
Cure 1 am now as well as ever I was.”
From Mrs. Carrie Rowse, 28 High-street, West Geelong, Vic., 25th August, 1904.
Some years ago I was prostrated by extreme weakness, general debility, loss of appetite, head-
c ies, and depression of spirits. My system was completely run down and out of order. A friend
who knew my condition recommended me to take Warner’s Safe Cure. Although without much
faith 1 adopted the advice, and after taking Warner’s Safe Cure for a little time a favorable change
developed. 1 began to improve in health and strength, my appetite returned, and I was very soon
strong again and m the enjoyment of good health.” y
From Mass Edith Newman, 58 Grosvenor-street, Balaclava, Vic., 21st January, 1904.
ror the benefit of ladies who may be suffering as I did, I wish to state, in a few words, my ex-
and Warner’s Safe Pills. For more than two years I was
rv • r ~ u —*• • • •o'no x xjlxo. x' ui i ijui C blirvil li WCf V CtHIS _L YVitC
j U iC, . om , ver y a °ute headache, accompanied by fainting fits, extreme weakness, and general
ice of a friend, I commenced to take Warner’s Safe Cure and
w 1 1 - y ; tln l e > on . the advice U i n, mcuu, j. uumuienceu uo taxe vvarner s oate (jure am
arner s Sate 1 ills. I continued to take these medicines for a few weeks only, when the nervousnes
halTl • lsappeared, and the headaches and fainting feelings left me. lam pleased to state that 1
have enjoyed better health since taking Warner’s Safe medicines than for years previous to that time.’
From Miss C. E. M. Smith, 87 Albion Street, South Yarra, Vic., Bth January, 1904.
, lor a protracted period of time I have suffered, almost daily, from nervous headaches of a'
slsteS Un Unon b the n ?d nre ’ c f om f b ? ned T w , lth . f r ® at lassitude and various symptoms, due to a relaxes
f®™ - - U ? on tlle ad vice of a friend I decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I was pleased that Idi
so, for, in a few weeks, the medicine banished all symptoms of ill-health.” [lO
A.N.A.
Exhibition of Australian
Manufactures $ Products
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS, DECEMBER NEXT.
The true combination
of Capital and Labor*
The golden opportunity of demonstrating
what Australian Workmen can produce*
Exhibitors should at once arrange for space with
A - McGUIRE, Organising Secretary. M. A. MARTIN, General Secretary.
Phone 1499. 134 p, TT STREET, SYDNEY.
MILLERS
m
OSTRICH PLUMES
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black
tipped with White.
5/
Length. 12 inches
Pose free.
The Feathers we offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Buy to-day, or write
for one. Send Postal Note or Money
O-x der to John Miller.
-
Mf:
From the
Famous Farm*
of South Africa
Black, White.
Cream, Natural
or Black ami
White mixed.
(15 inches)
7/6
Post
Free
There is practi-
cally nothing
more becoming
to the average woman than the
soft setting pivfin her face and
head by really good feathers.
ILLUSTRATED PIUOE LIST POST FREE.
ĥ
QIVEN away,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write now*.
Send postal notes .
AN AID TO BEAUTY,
Black, Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
OSTRICH TIP 3.
Length, 9 inches.
3 for 6;-
(Six Shilling’s).
ħ
No woman who cares about her appearance can
afford to be indifferent to Ostrich Plumes—an aid
which helps to her attainment of beauty.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
4/so at Corner Bourkc and Swanston Sts., Melbourne.
Address Letters to Department P. [Mention The Bulletin.]
A peregrinating picture-seller in South Australia
visited a district of German farmers, who all seemed
to have a picture of Martin Luther. He admired it, and
said that he could sell them pictures of Martin Luther’s
brother. The orders were plentiful, and he supplied
them with photographs of an eminent cleric of theß.O.
denomination, whom, until then, he had found rather
unsaleable.
Business, Robbery, etc.
In Sydney, the Chinaman follows the woman
of ill-fame as a tenant. The landlord of a number of
houses, now vacant through the police serving the former
women occupants with quit notices, receives daily offers
from Mongols who, when refused, smile blandly and say,
“ Alii, me come nex’ week ; you gettee no one else takee.”
The landlord is beginning to think the Chow has got the
right focus of the situation.
* * * *
“A.G.”; “Nothing to-day, old chap.” Still
the heap of tin-ware came down the garden path. “We
don’t want anything to-day,” I said gruffly. “Oh, per-
haps the missus would like something. I’li go round to
the back.” “ No; you needn’t bother.” “ It’s no trouble.
lam only too pleased to show my wares. Last year when
I was here, your wife told me to be sure and call again.”
“ I’ve only been in the house six months, so you must
be making a mistake. Anyway, we want nothing, so
get.” He didn’t get. Instead he congratulated me on
my marriage and smiled when I swore. Just then the
wife came out to see if I had another splinter in my foot.
“ A dipper,” she said beamingly. “ The very thing I
wanted.” I protested that the old one was good enough,
but it was two to one, and I lost. The tinker raised his
hat and departed smiling. I went and punched a hole in
the dipper on the quiet, and spoke severely to the wife on
buying damaged goods from disreputable hawkers.
* * t- » •
“ C.H.” : Mrs. Murphy came in to the Savings
Bank to deposit 15s. When I opened her book I saw in a
moment that the four previous entries were bad forgeries.
The amounts were entered all right, and initialled, but
surely no clerk ever wrote such a fist! “ Who made these
entries, Mrs. Murphy?” I asked. “Sure, how do yez
think I know? One of ye gintlemin, I persoome.”
“ Did you deposit the money yourself?” “I did not”
said Mrs. Murphy, “ I guv it to young Mick to bring along,
me bein’ in bed this six wakes wid lumbago.” Looked at
the ledger, and found, as I expected, that the four entries
were not there. Then I pointed out to Mrs. Murphy as
gently as I could that, in all probability, Mick had made
the entries himself, and spent the” money. As Mrs.
Murphy left the bank, something in her face seemed to
hint at trouble for Michael.
* * * *
A well-known Melbourne firm of tea-blenders
advertised for a canvasser. The applicant who sent in the
following did not get the billet
“ Sir re travler in the tea trade. I invester 70 pounds
With A Friend in the tea trade in 1889 he knew how to
Blend The Above he took to drinking and goot A Many
bad Orders Wich We never got the money.
“ We Emploied A Boy to make up the” Packet tea and
others jobs. I Canvessedthe Packets &c I sold more than
he Did. I have got the Versility To Sell anything at that
day. The loest price Was 2s. 6d. per lb.
“ We made the Packes as near the Licensed Victilers
patern to Imertate it and alovved more % commis to pub-
licens Than the Asscoation Did at that time I was
emploied on A morning Paper at night time and I had a
Lot of Spare hours on hand therefore I use To jurney
about 30 Every Other day and do the Local Pubs in the
meantime I culd >Vork up a Goot trade. I Should want
A Weeklie Wage to Keep the Worlf from the door. An
early reply Will Oblige yours truly Wm. Jarge Hartlie.
Can find Goot refferiances an a intervew Will Convince
you what Kind of Stuff I Am made of.”
* * * *
“F.E.P.W.” : Went into a shop, t’other day,
to buy a reel of cotton. Was confronted by a magnificent
specimen of human brawn, well over 6ft., and huge
limbed. He reached with one hand to a high shelf, bal-
anced the cotton for a second, and then brought it single-
handed on to the counter without turning a hair. I
caught his eye as he moved majestically up with a three-
penny-bit change in his strong right hand, but he showed
no sign of either shame or self-consciousness. Poor devil !
What a policeman, or Rugby footballer, was lost in this
Hercules who handled reels of cotton and threepence in
change. Heard afterwards that he was a reformed bowls
player, and was now the district champion at ping-pong.
A curious case.
A practical people are the Americans. A new
regulation of the U.S. Post Office announces that the
mail rate for ashes of cremated relatives is Boz. for a
penny.
* * * *
“D’Harum”: The more I see of warehouse-
owners, the more it strikes me that they are the biggest
lot of sweaters on God’s earth. The following is absolute
truth, and the Warehouse mentioned is one of the biggest
in Adelaide:—Two years ago, a youth went there and
asked for work. They offered him ss. per week to begin
with, at lumping work, and promised a rise very shortly
both in position arid pay. For two years he struggled
with big cases at ss. a week, and his rise was always put
off. At last, he gave a week’s notice. The day before his
departure, he was called into the manager’s room and
ordered to clean all the windows in the warehouse before
he left—there were over 50 of them. He refused. “ Very
well,” said the boss, in a metallic tone, “ I won’t give you
a reference. If anyone comes to me about you, I’ll not
give you a character!” And the youth‘ cleaned 50
windows in addition to his regular w’ork, and got his
usual ss. per week.
* ♦ * *
“ N.D.P.” : A word for the rabbit. I recently
started batching, and experimented in the tinned delicacy
line. First tried what was alleged to be roast goose ;
turned out to be rabbit. Thought it was a mistake ; tried
another tin, with similar results. Next tried roast pork,
etc., etc.—all rabbit. In desperation, I asked for a tin of
rabbit, and was politely told that they didn’t stock it, as
“ there was no sale for it.”
* * * *
“Deeby”: Australians joke with difficulty.
I speak from experience for I once starved as a travelling
photographer. Nearly' every sitter, on entering my
wandering studio, would ask, “ Think I’d break the glass ?'”
Or he would vary the query by remarking, “ I think
I’ll break the glass.” The only sitters who did not make
these remarks were the babies. Sometimes the question
would be asked, “ Have y T er got a glass strong enough to
stand me?” until the business fairly got on my nerves.
And I was expected to laugh or otherwise manifest appre-
ciation of the weary old inanity. One day a Chinaman,
looking at my show-case, was asked by a passing girl,
with the sweet smile many Australian girls lavish on the
yellow man, “ Going to have yer photo, taken, Charley ?”
I said to myself with joy : “At least he won’t come out
with the toothless old gag,” but. as I live, the Chinaman
replied, “Nofeah! might bleak’em glassee.” I rushed
out, but fortunately the fellow had disappeared.
Chinamen generally carry tallies in their heads,
for the reason, as a Belmore gardener put it, “me losee
book, but me no losee head.” However, some do jot in
books. A John, about a month ago, lost his day-book,
and, after diligent search, reported the disaster to the
police. He was laughed at. The idea of the King’s
officers being asked to hunt around for a common cab-
bagee’s thumb-marked salebook made Robert ramp. But
Inspector X said wisely to his minion: “All right. Go
down and see Fanny ; give ’er a bob for it.” The in-
spector’s guess was right, and the grimy volume turned
up. Before returning it to John the officer had the con-
tents translated and copied out. It was a day-book,
diary, and general record of the knowledge which John
thought might be useful. The raiding of sundry pak-a-
pu dens was one result, and the wreckage of a pro-
mising opium trade another. Also, the book contained
memoranda to the effect that Ah Foo’s measure was one
quart short, Ah Tong’s 141 b. weight was 21b. short,
the adjusting lead was taken out of Ah Smee’s weight,
and Ah Sam carried a false weight in his pocket to
foil the inspector. All these Ahs fell in.
* * * *
The devices of the money-lender to make the
interest look less are many and ingenious. An unfor-
tunate devil recently answered an advertisement warning
him not to have anything to do with money-lenders, but
to come straight to the fountain-head in the person of an
“ honest tradesman who never refused a loan to any
respectable person.” The fountain-head turned out to be
a jeweller with a small shop in a Melbourne suburb. The
applicant wanted £2O, and found he could get it on the
security of his furniture (worth at least £6O) on condition
that he took £l5 in cash and £5 in the shape of twelve
obsolete nickel watches. And he took the shovelful of
timepieces. That jeweller runs his money-lending busi-
ness presumably to get rid of dead stock,, though he
makes pretty numerous per cent, in addition,',' Ty -


NO PRIVATE MARKS WITH US.£>
Your boy or your girl buys at our Storo with every assurance that they will receive
the same fair and courteous attention that would be accorded to yourself. No
expert knowledge Is required when dealing with us. Our prices are always the
lowest. Quality governs the price, and price the quality. This absolute certainty of
getting what you pay for Is one of the foundation stones on which STEWART
DAWSON & CO. have built up eight of the most popular Jewellery Stores in
Australasia. Send us a small trial order, and so become a member of our
- contented crowd of constant customers.
h
ĥ
A quaint Table Gong this, with Striker and 4 different
toned gongs. In fine Silver-plate. An ornament for
the table,- and useful at the same time. Makes a very
good wedding gift, and one unlikely to be duplicated.
The nicely modelled squirrel and bird adds to the
pretty rustic effect and enhances the general appear-
ance. Price £2 10s
ħ
h
0
For a Wedding, Silver Wedding, or Presentation, this heavy, fluted
4 o’clock Tea Service is particularly suited. The workmanship
is the very best—each piece bears the hall-mark. In short, it is
made for use, and is bound to satisfy. £l3 10s complete.
ĥ
The “Scimitar ” Brooch. This is our own
particular design, and can only be had
in our Sydney Store. The Hilt is of strong
9ct. Gold, and is Pearl set. The blade is made of New Zealand
Greenstone, and is hollow ground. The back is of gold for extra
strength, and is rivetted through the blade where the Pearl set
Star appears. Splendid value, £1 ss.
ħ
h
ĥ
Suppose you wish to send
a small token of remem-
brance to some one far
away, and yet don’t want
to spend very much. What
better gift than one of
these Sterling Silver Enam-
elled Top Souvenirs of
Sydney?
Sy
We can supply any of the four styles of tops shown in two sizes. The medium Tea
Spoon, 9s 6d; and the full size one for 13s 6d.
We deliver any article we sell free and safe by post on reoeipt of remittance.
When cheques are sent by new customers, they must allow time for collec-
tion or send a Sydney reference along with cheque. Coods not approved of
can be exchanged if returned promptly and in good order, or we will refund
the full amount paid us. We have confidence in our goods and cannot
make fairer terms than these. You stand
no risk whatsoever.
A very sensible, wide base, double Inkstand,
made of good Silver-plate and complete with
Pen Rack. Bottles have silver-plated covers,
and are let into framework of stand so that the
ink cannot be upset. Has four ball feet, and
decorated border as shown. Our best 255. ink
unquestionably.
Match Boxes in Solid Silver, with solid 9c. Gold
Ornamental Shields and Mounts, form elegant
gifts. We have a range of sizes in plain or fancy
engraved styles. They are the best boxes made,
the workmanship and finish being perfection.
Prices for the plain styles are 18/6, 22/6, 25/-, and
for the engraved ones 25/-, 27/6, 30/-.
Solid Silver and Cut-Glass.
The two are happily com-
bined in this extremely
pretty Smelling Salts Bottle.
The hottle is filled with
pungent, refreshing Salts,
and will be found a boon in
the sick-room, theatre or
ballroom. The Salts are
colored by means of a harm-
less coloring matter, in
pretty shades of red and
green, giving the bottle a
rich appearance. Free by
post for 3s 6d.
These are the full size Shoe Lift and Button Hook in that refined pattern
known as the “Cherub.” They are of superior make and intended for
service, not the kind that falls to pieces first time of using. Convenient
articles to have on your dressing-table and useful things to give as a gift.
Hooks cost 10s 6d, and the Lifts 12s 6d each.
This is a triumph for us, and an unusual chance for you. A fresh, big
delivery of that necessary for Afternoon Teas—Silver-plated Cake Porks.
The best value ever seen in Sydney. Either of the designs shown (both
are smart) in any quantity from one up at Is. each.
liWWfWgl
Chain Bags of Sterling Sil-
ver are all the go now, and
if you would be up-to-date
you must have one of these.
We have them in many
styles and sizes, some as
high as £5 ; but here we
will mention three that
come nearer the general
demand. As shown, in
Sterling Silver, size 2£in. x
3, £1 12s 6d; larger size,
£ll7s 6d ; smaller sizes and
different shape without the
chain and ring, 17s 6d.
Write for Catalogue.
This illustration depicts a range of 3 sizes in one of
our most popular lines of Flower Vases. They are
made of pure Nickel Silver, thickly plated with
Sterling Silver, and are far superior to the ordinary
make of Solid Silver Vase because they are so much
stronger. The bottoms are weighted in order to
prevent the flowers from tipping them over. The
sizes and prices run —ojin., 8s 6d ; CJin., 9s 6d;
7|in., 10s 6d.
ERADICATE URIC ACID ».»YOUR DODY
WHAT WE HEAR DAILY.
“ Cupar, Fife, Oct. 11, 1904.
“ Dear Sirs—l have used Kutnow’s Pow-
der often myself with beneficial effect.
Would you be good enough to forward a
bottle of same to . . . who is a martyr to
liver affection and accompanying symptoms
of uric acid poisoning ? By so doing you will
oblige
“JAMES BORROWMAN, F.R.C.V.S.”
ENTIRELY FREE FROM URIC ACID.
Boston, Mass., Sept. 16th.
‘‘ I have suffered for the past two years
With Gout in its most painful form, my body
being thoroughly charged with uric acid. I
used Kutnow’s Powder, and in three days
the morning tests showed less and less acid,
until now lam free. I have now taken four
bottles. I consider Kutnow’s Powder the
greatest uric acid solvent in the world. I
am using same throughout practice and hos-
pital.
“JOHN T. SIMPSON, M.D."
HOSPITAL SURGEON SAYS:
“ Parco Grifeo, Naples, Italy,
9th July, 1904.
“Dear Sirs—-I duly received some time
ago a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, of which I
handed some to my friend, Professor Dr. C.
Scotti, House Surgeon of the International
Hospital here, who, acknowledging the re-
ceipt with thanks, says : ‘ I have known the
remedy about a year, and have used it in
many cases with very satisfactory success.’—
Yours truly,
“ J. WOLFFSOHN.
The Medical Journal,
OCTOBER, 1904, SAYS:
“ The uric acid problem affords an ever-increasing interest, not
only on account of the many attempts at solution and various
theories set forth, but because of the wide field of investigation
which is opened up with the fascinating prospect of bringing to light
metabolic facts which have ever been shrouded in obscurity. We
do know, however, whence uric acid is derived, but the metabolism
produced thereby has yet to be determined. Regardless of diet, rich
and poor suffer alike from the accumulation of uric acid, which some-
times occurs without any apparent failure in health ; but more often
are the kidneys and bladder affected, and the digestive organs im-
paired ; hence excessive uric acid is frequently responsible for heart-
burn, flatulence, and liver trouble. Lithia has been tried and found
useless, for when taken by the mouth it chemically combines with
the phosphates in its progress through the stomach and there forms
insoluble compounds. The best remedy we know possessing a solvent
action and eliminative properties is Kutnow’s Powder, which is
largely used by the Medical Profession and has always given the
highest satisfaction wherever it has been tried.”
IMPORTANT CAUTION!
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others who,
for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon you some cheap
imitation of their own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive persons, capable of
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable,
free from sugar, and absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature,
“ S. Kutnow and Co., Ld.” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung,
or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and also on
the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure your
obtaining the
Genuine KUTNOW’S POWDER.
NERVOUS HEADACHES.
How is nervous Headache brought on ?
Principally by the retention of the excessive
uric acid, which is a terrible scourge to the
nervous system.
How is this uric acid headache distinguished 1
When it is due to uric acid poisoning, it is
generally one-sided or partial, as over the
brow, and more or less intermittent pain
on pressure of the scalp, and darting or
shooting pains from temple to temple.
Is uric acid dangerous ?
Not immediately so ; it is very insidious, but
ultimately, if not checked, its ravages are
disastrous.
Is nervous Headache a first sign of uric acid
poisoning ?
Yes ! when the uric acid is absorbed by the
blood it is rapidly circulated and deposited
in the nerve centres, notably the spine
and brain.
Is uric acid productive of disease ?
To its baneful influence may be ascribed in-
numerable ailments, amongst which are
Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Insomnia, Melan-
cholia, Gout, Sciatica, Enfeebled Brain
and Suicidal Tendency.
What is the proper treatment 1
Kutnow’s Powder not only removes the
headache, but concurrently invigorates the
nerve centres and expels the cause of
the trouble.
Is the action of Kutnow’s speedy ?
Yes, it will remove headache within 20 or 30
minutes.
KUTNOW’S POWDER ELIMINATES URIC ACI
Proprietors : S. KUTNOW & CO-, Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E„C.
Proprietors in U.S.A.: Kutnow Bros., Ltd.,
853 Broadway, New York.


GEORGE ADAMS,
HOBART, TASMANIA.
The TRUSTEES will carry on the businesses under LICENSE from the TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT, and
Special Supervision of a representative of the Government, WITHOUT ANY INTERMISSION, and under the same
management as during past years.
Ihe liustees in the Estate of the Late GEORGE ADAMS still continue his BREWERY and other Businesses in
HOBART, and money may be paid through any BANK in Australasia to the credit of the TRUSTEES in the Estate of
the Late GEORGE ADAMS, Commercial Bank of Tasmania, Hobart, and any EIRM regularly communicating with
Hobart. Depositors, when doing so, will please request the BANK to advise the TRUSTEES of amount, with their
name and full address.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
True to Nature.
WOLFF’S
IMPORTED..
64
rytSf*
O*
\J\o^
1*
THE FINEST
PERFUME
IN THE MARKET.
30LD BY ALL
Chemists and Storekeepers,
SOLE AGENTS.
LOHMANN
& Go. j Melbourne & Sydney.
h
I
I
ill
ĥ
ħ
h
Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
i’hb famoits remedy
FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Soreness toth! SttaZ. Id Bro-ehitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
fortingmallaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice and it neither dlows •> C, nil! b r °A C lfcls m* arable, »s it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine Wo hon • ( , As m , a to chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and a Complete Cure is certain. ' • se should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEJ'WA.RE OF
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT,
COUGHS !
AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION
TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling- representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. VV. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to tryyour Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
CONGESTION OF THE LUNGS.
A BAD CASE QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Sir,—Will you please send me some medicine for the
following illness :-A fortnight ago I had Influenza, and
it settled on the lungs. I now have congestion of the
lungs ; the doctor says so, but his treatment has not done
me any good. My breathing is short, and I have a shore
cough and a frothy-white spit; mv sides are sore to
the touch, and painful. It hurts me to lie down. I
am very weak, and I perspire a lot at night, and my body
and lungs feel burning. lam getting worse. I feel
worse to-day. Please post the necessary medicine to
borrento, and I will send you the monev, and oblige,
M. J. BOXELL,
Relieving Postmistress, Sorrento, Victoria.
The treatment sent effected a complete cure, as the
following letter testifies :
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Many thanks for the medicine. I herewith
enclose postal note in payment. lam much obliged to
you for sending the medicine so promptly. It has done
me a lot of good; in fact, I have quite recovered.
M. J. BOXELL.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
- ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. WG. Hearne Dear Sir,-I write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleeD
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw vour medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You mav
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known
1 have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this wav that if thev
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during- that time got
treatment from different sources, blit derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours-sincerely,
“W. THEM ELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
- CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states “ I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthiiia.” '
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has'been repeatedly
working- for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended !
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant.
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked |
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTES.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a uad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
iou are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
m y gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years', I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Els tern wick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to" try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished!
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottles of it, as
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s 6d.; Large Size, 4s.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
6d,
m m m m • \ 111 LV ADD JDX XHD JT XL WJT XVII u ±l,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
DV\D\H ADI\LHY litr lirvcim *
branch depot
FORWARDED'BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Always the same!
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
MONKEY BRAND
FOR MAKING BRASS LIKE MIRRORS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.j
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at tlie University—
“Hunyadi Jdnos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to undesirable
symptoms even if used continuously for years.’*
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a similar quantity
of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos," the signature of the proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre
Part of the Label.
CHILDREN’S
SCALP
A Mother Gives ZAM-81/K Great Praise,
-J
“ A BOUT twelve months ago, says Mrs. P.
Kerr, of 41 Oxford-street, Kingston, New-
town, Sydney, ‘ ‘ my little daughter’s head
broke out in pimply sores. The irritation caused
her to scratch them, and in a little while the
sores commenced to spread and covered the whole
of her scalp. I took her to the doctor, and
received a lotion from him, which I used, but
without benefit. I then tried several other treat-
ments, but the sores showed no signs
of improvement. A lady friend advised
me to use Zam-Buk, and presented me
with a pot. I accordingly had the hair
cut very short and applied Zam-Buk in
accordance with directions. After a few
days of this treatment a vast improve-
ment was noticeable. All the irritation
disappeared, and the sores commenced
to dry up nicely, and her scalp was soon
quite clear of them. Her hair, which
was very thin, is now growing thick and
strong. lam quite satisfied that Zam-
Buk, and Zam-Buk alone, worked this
wonderful change. Zam-Buk is without
a doubt a wonderful healing balm,
which no mother should be without.
ZAM-BUK is a PROVED CURE for PILES. ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
SORES, SORE LEGS, BARCOO, RASH, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, LUM-
BAGO, SCIATICA, etc. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and
TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As
a HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS, BRUISES, BURNS, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS,
SORE THROAT, SORE CHEST, CHAPPED HANDS, CHILBLAINS, and SORE
FEET, ZAM-BUK is INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at 1/6, or S/6
FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four times the quantity), or from THE ZAM-BUK
CO., 39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
am
rub irTirr
Brothers o’ Mine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
yv ROTHERS o' mine, brothers o’ mine,
LS All the world over, from pole to pole—
/ J All of them brothers of mine and thine—
Every wandering, blundering soul.
Banded together by grace divine,
Brothers o' mine, brothers o' mine.
Good Brother Green at the service sat—
Sat in the chapel, and bowed his head ;
Praying most fervently into his hat;
Bending his knee when The Word was read.
For good Brother Green was a godly man ■
A godly keristian ; and what be more,
He loved all sinners, and carefully ran
A worldly and prosperous grocery store.
“Brothers o' mine, brothers o' mine,"
Quoted the preacher, with dolorous drone :
“ The Lord He hath given thee all that is thine.
Love ye not gold for itself alone.
E'er to the fallen thy mercy incline,
Love thou thy neighbor! 0, brothers o' mine.
Good comrade Hal in the tavern sat —
Sat in the tavern and tossed his head,
Tilting a glass to the brim of his hat;
Bending his arm when the toast was said.
But comrade Hal was a godless man—
A godless sinner ; and what be more.
He loved good liquor, and carelessly ran
A long, long bill at the grocery store.
“ Brother o' mine, brother o' mine,"
Shouted the tippler in riotous tone,
“ Toiled thou, and siveated for all that is thine ;
But love not the gold for itself alone.
Gold bringeth gladness and red, red wine.
Fill up another J 0 brother o' mine."
Every Sabbath, since childhood years,
Good Brother Green at the service sat—
A traveller stern in this vale of tears—
Breathing his piety into his hat;
Praying for guidance and praying for light;
Vowing unworthiness more and more ;
With a nice warm feeling that all was right
With the business of Green’s Cash Grocery Store.
‘ * Brothers o' mine, brothers o' mine,
Turn not away from thy brother in sin.
Afar let the light of your righteousness shine,
A beacon to gather the wanderer in.
Lovers of wickedness, lovers of wine,
All," said the worshipper, “ brothers o' mine."
Every Sabbath, since childhood’s years,
Comrade Hal in the tavern sat —
A rioter gay in this vale of tears,
Tilting a glass to the brim of his hat;
Drinking from morn till the fall of night;
Vowing good-fellowship more and more ;
With a nice warm feeling that all was right,
And a curse for the bill at the grocery store.
Brothers o' mine, brothers o' mine,
Seek ye a pew or a pewter to-day ?
Where is the brotherhood vaunted divine —
Here, in the tavern or—over the way ?
Drink is a snare, and a mocker is wine ;
But the world ? — Nay, forget it, 0 brothers o' mine !
Monday morn, with a soul for work.
Good Brother Green stood rubbing his hands —
Rubbing his hands with an oily smirk ;
Seeking the trade a good name commands.
Came there a widow who pleaded for time —
For a month, for a week ! Ah, what would it
mean !
“ Sell up her sticks. This pretence is a crime !
And business is business,” quoth good Brother
Green.
Brothers o' mine, brothers o' mine 1
Cover your drunkenness, cover your spite I
Brother in piety, brother in wine —
Are we a brotherhood ? Lord give us light !
Lover of cant, or the lover of wine —
Which lov'st thou of these brothers o' thine ?
Heavy and dull on the Monday morn,
Comrade Hal went rubbing his head—
Rubbing his head with an air forlorn ;
Seeking the tavern where wine is red.
Passed he a beggar who aid invoked.
“ Catch, then, brother,” he merely cried,
Spinning a coin as he smiled and joked,
“ Now I go thirsty,” the tippler sighed.
Brothers o' mine, brothers o' mine —
Brothers in purple, brothers in rags —
Who can the bonds of your kin define l
Plead yc beggars, and jest ye ivags!
“ Nay, beggar brother, why dost thou ivhine 1
All these good people are brothers o' thine."
S.A.
C. J. DENNIS.
London Finance and Literature.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f way mining companies are conducted
in London is as puzzling as it is amusing
to a man used to the lightly-paid directors
of Australian companies. In the history of the
Westralian boom it was a common experience to
find £l5OO spent on the mine and £3OOO on the
London office. I attended a meeting in a big
hotel in London of a company operating in West
Africa —that grave of much British capital with
no hope of a glorious resurrection.
There was an unbusinesslike person with a title
who pretended to act as chairman of directors;
and the deluded shareholders applauded whenever
he used the directorial jargon, which the average
shareholder respects because he does not under-
stand. Phonetically reported, the proceedings
were in the manner following :
The Chairman : “I am—er —glad to inform you
that we have a very good mine indeed.”
The Shareholders (bleating): “ Yer ! Yer ! ”
The Chairman : “We have fifteen lodes on our
property, and they are all very good lodes indeed.”
“Yer! Yer !”
“ We are, however, only working one of our
lodes just now and at the present time, and it is a
vers good lode indeed.”
“ Yer ! Yer ! ”
“ There is gold in it.”
Great enthusiasm and more “ Yer ! Yer ! ”
“ This lode is about a mile long, and is eighteen
inches wide, and the gold is very good gold in-
deed.”
“Yer! Yer!”
“The lode is worth fifteen pennyweights, and
it is a very good lode indeed.”
“ Yer ! Yer !” .
“Our managahis a very good managah indeed.”
“Yer! Yer!”
“ If he can buy a thing for five pounds he will
not waste ten pounds on it indeed.’
“Yer! Yer! Yer! Yer!”
“Our managah expects to cwush in about a
yeah.”
“ Yer ! Yer ! ”
“ I move adoption of report and vote of thanks
to our managah, who is a very good managah
indeed.”
“ Yer ! Yer ! ”
After that the shareholders are finished with
for another year, and by that time, although the
“ very good mine indeed,” is still, indeed, unpro-
ductive, the mis-directors have invented another
series of platitudinous “indeeds” for the rank
and file to respond “Yer! Yer!” to in the
proper places.
* * * *
Literary London is most interesting in its
failures. In the cases of the men who have tried
and failed, the failures have been more by over-
shooting than undershooting the mark ; else Hall
Caine is a more literary writer than Bernard Shaw,
and Marie Corelli than Charles Reade.
One of the men who have not succeeded, but
who still, though well up to the 70 mark, do their
daily tale of journalism, is a strong-faced, white-
haired man whose cheerful philosophy Jvvill never
desert him until he is sent for.
We walked Fleet-street, damped by the con-
tinuous drizzle, and the old man stumped along,
with his stick at a tangent for greater security,
and delivered himself
“Yes, I’ve had my dreams —and what more can
a man get but dreams and friends ? Eh?....When
I first came to London I was a boy of twenty—
Eh ! But I had planned everything. I was to
write a greater novel than ‘ The Cloister and the
Hearth,’ and a greater tragedy than ‘Macbeth,’
and a greater poem than ‘ The Princess.”—Ha !
Ha !Ha ! And that wasn’t all. I planned to do
a grand opera—between the hard work of writing
novels —and I was to compose the music also—no
less. After that I was to go into Parliament and
be Premier of England.... We’ll go in here and
have a Scotch...and now I’m writing leaderettes.
...Ha ! Ha !—it all ends in froth.”
“No—it doesn’t,” said I. “You’ve had the
dreams, and the ambition must have been a com-
fort in the bad days.”
“Yes, you’re right. So it was. But my trouble
was this : I didn’t have dark days enough. I won
a good journalistic appointment, and I settled
down to it like a petted cat. . . . We’ll go to a
funny little club I know. . . . You’ll like it. . . .
As you say, I’ve had my dreams.”
We won through the rain to a dreary brick
building in a lane —very quiet, because it was so
narrow that very rarely did the traffic touch it.
My companion searched his pockets for a key,
and explained.
“ This is the cheapest club in London, and
it has the best whisky. .. . Ha! here’s the
key. . . . Everything is so cheap here that all the
frills have to be dispensed with. No hall porters
... no waiters. Come to the bar for your drink,
and open the hall door with your own key. . . .
You go first. ... No member is supposed to let
another member in. . . . There must be five
hundred of these keys knocking about London.”
Nine o’clock struck as we entered the club. The
excellence of the whisky and its cheapness were
undeniable. My introducer left for home at mid-
night, but by that time I had made many friends,
and they did not allow me to go away until 7
o’clock next morning.
It was a symposium of whisky, square-face, and
the poets; a Dublin pressman acting as protago-
nist for Tennyson from midnight until nearly
dawn.
“Tinnyson,” said he raising his voice to com-
bat the noise of the game of ping-pong played by
the two club drunkards —one of them politely and
blastiferously intoxicated ; the other stonily and
solemnly drunk, and both unable to hit the ball
except by accident —“Tinnyson—we have the
perfection of sinse. Furst, there is his nose :
My very hearrt fents
An’ me whole soul graves
At the moisht rich shmell of the rotting laves
An’ the breath
Of the fading edges of box beneath
An’ the year’s lasht rose.
Now there is his sinse of shmell. An’ ye come to
his eye :
The maiden shplendurs of the morning shtar
Shuk in the shteadfasht blue
Gerate growths of jasmin turrned
Their humid arms, feshtooning three to three,
An’ in the lush green grasses burrned
The red anemone.
And forr’s ear—l don’t remimber it aisily.”
He thought for a long time. The ping-pong
players waxed shrill and a dozen-sided arguments
began and ended before he again began declaim-
ing in a metallic voice—a voice that burlesqued
the text—
“ Come ye from the —um—er—something—mountain
hoighth—
Um —um —Ah ! Yes !
Shwate is thy voice—but ivery sound is shwate
Myriads of riv’lets hastening thro’ the lorruns,
The moan of doves in imma-morial ellums,
The murrmurra of innumerrable bees ! ”
We had got as far as the unactable tragedy of
“Queen Mary” when the thick dawn crept in,
and the steward told us to go home, as he wanted
to lock up the club.
* * * *
In Salisbury Square, there is a favorite Pot-
house—Cogers’ Hall —where for the last 150 years
the fate of empires has been settled —in debate—
every Saturday night. Since 1755, Chancellors
and Chief Justices and lights of literature and
law have, at one time or other, debated there ; be-
cause it was the fashion for the aspirant to any-
thing so to do. John Wilkes, Curran, Dan
O’Connell, Charles Dickens, George Francis Train,
Father Tom Burke, Lord Halsbury and Lord
Russell of Killowen have spoken in the dingy
little room at the back of the dingy little public-
house ; it has exercised, or thought it exercised, a
great power in crises ; and, although it has always
been very fond of its pot, it always found money
to help the end it agitated for. The speakers of
recent years have been an extraordinary mixture,
varying every Saturday night—Secularists, Irish-
men, Socialists, clerks, and High Church curates;
and the audience of barristers, pressmen, Bohe-
mians generally, and some working men—but not
many. From these mixtures sometimes rose
trouble—as when a chairman of the Cogeis de-
nounced the Fenians, and Tynan and Cronin, who
were present, objected hotly. The Cogers has
7500 members—al hough its hall can hold only
200 ; and one of these 7500 members has been a
member for 43 years, and is still an active talker.
I Called at the place of the Cogers at daylight,
and so did not see those noble men in session
busy with the regeneration of the world and the
consumption of beer —but I did see a queer trio in
the little back bar. A pimply man was stating in
a loud voice that if he had only given up the
drink he would have been as great a poet as
Shakspeare; he was a genius who had written
nearly as many sensational novels under various
names as he had drunk nobblers of rum. Fearful
drinks they had there—gin and beer, rum and
lemonade with nutmeg in it; hot rum with an egg
beaten up in brandy, and long, cold, dead, dank,
and mysterious beers.
The pimply man said that he drank lemonade
with his rum because he couldn't taste the rum.
“ But don’t you want to taste it ? ” I asked him.
“No fear,” he said, shuddering. “I hate the
taste.”
“But why do you drink ?”
“To get drunk,” said he, “and think I’m a
great man.”
There you have the logic of the drunkard and
all his philosophy—crystallised in nine words.
With him an old gentleman who spouted Latin
verses, except when he was swearing or drinking,
and a kindly, quiet, gentle old chap, who said his
blood ran cold when he heard a bad word, and
who looked as if the statement were true.
We had more drinks and Latin verses and
curses, and a song about a man who left his girl
and went to the wars, and had his right eye
knocked out by a cannon-ball—
He used to look so lovin’, with eyes so full of fun,
But now he looks askew at me because he’s only one.
Almost my last memory of London is of the
gentle old failure, and the cursing, irascible Latin
scholar of the old school, and the genius who
missed being Shakspeare but still wrote his sen-
sational story a month, and so kept the fire
burning on his obscene altar.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


SERIOUS SIGNS.
Any sign of Kidney Complaint is Serious,
Because Kidney Trouble gets Worse
Every Day it is Neglected, and
is Bound to end Fatally.
II
OJf ;
;<L
Q
7)
y
“ Every
Picture
Tells
a Story. "
Many people think that their kidney complaint will get
\\e 1 again in time without help. But they do not know that
the kidneys can never rest from their great work of purifying
the blood. It takes them all the 24 hours of the day to do it
even when they are well, so that when they are ill the work
is bound to fall behind, and the blood cannot be properly
cleansed. The kidneys can never get well of themselves.
° n rvn safe side ’ . ancl be S in with Doan’s Backache
ividney fills at the first sign of anything wrong—when there
is a pain or dull ache in the back, urinary disorders, bladder
troubles, uric acid, dizziness, headaches, loss of appetite ;
w len the heart acts strangely; when your eyes are heavy, and
your imbs stiff; when you feel miserable, irritable, nervous,
depressed, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure you, as
they have cured your neighbors. Bead the two statements
given below.
Sydney People Know This
M - Jol) n Lawson, Bren nan-street, Leichhardt Hill, this eitv savs •
Twelve months ago my daughter used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pilh/and
they cured her of pams in the small of her back. At the time she took the
medicine her back was causing her a lot of discomfort. She could scarcely set
about, and when she sat down it was difficult to stand up again She Warned
eW cure in her case 61 ' • 1 116 t ? ou l “ e -. Th « Pills made aperman-
months s nee the Bni o Sh nT had £? Sl £ n ? f the ailment since, and it is twelve
tenefit from the n h ® P W My husband obtained an equal amount of
nenetit trom the same remedy. There is a lot of backache in Australia but
this medicine seems to get at the root of the trouble.” Australia, but
SV” Feb ™ a /y< ’«5 It is some time since I made the
.no* IKnaSwTf*'“ ”' r d “" !ht< ' r * Well ' 11 is th °
ANOTHER LASTING CURE.
Mr. Robert Ryan, 305 Susselc-street, Sydney, states “Four years aeo T
made a statement that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills had cured ine ffi kidney
a ment, I have been right ever since. For eighteen years, before 1 used the
miy.’o- IWaS1 WaS / 1 regU a f r Vl ,°, tlm to . tlle kidneys. It seemed to me that I was never
no trood IT the ’} had tried so nian >' remedies which did me
theffistin Aeniff,. ! w nght | or four years now, there can be no doubt about
e lasting benefit that comes from using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills T
have not needed to take the pills since they cured me.” y ’ 1
_ , M T- R y an rnakes a third statement on 10th February, 1905:—“Since T
made the above statement, three years ago, numbers of people have asked me
I ‘° them : •It ia n.ll trjk. Vn’, Kn“rel
me to stay cured. A friend of mine was suffering dreadfully, and losimr time
from work. To prove to him how valuable the pills were, Igave him afew-
thaUie boutw two b °^ ln t !° h ° USe - u Th i e few doses did him so much good
that he bought two or three boxes, with the result that they cured him also
y cure still stands firm, and I know of many who have been cured of severe
Kidney Pills! d 3ymptoms of disordered kidneys, by Doan’s Backache
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney , N.S. W.
h
% 1
l %
\
The Phantom Forest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DUSK, dim, mysterious, deep on deep,
Silence! nor song, nor sound, nor
breath !
Shadows like phantom armies creep
Down forest aisles as still as death.
Stealing o’er green and tender tops,
The winds march all on muffled feet •
IS o sound breaks from the songless copse
Careless and jubilant and sweet.
Like elfin fire flung pale and bright,
Fantastic sunlights flare and fade',
A songless bird, as swift as light,
Flashes across a silent glade.
Fi om glade and glen the voiceless streams
Hushed in their haunted channels flow.
0 ! fearsome forest, weird as dreams,
That on the midnight come and go'.
Hush ! From the depths, nor low, nor loud,
Mysterious myriad murmurs rise ;
And all the breathless woods are bowed,
Swept by a sudden gust of sighs.
A ghostly wind that swells and sweeps
The phantom forest—swayed and tossed
And thrilled and shaken to its deeps
Of shade and silence—and is lost.
Weird, wistful voices sigh and shriek,
And trees have tongues, and every leaf
Has living lips again to speak
The forest s wrongs and ancient grief.
Before Earth’s fruitful breasts were torn
By spade and share, her serfdom’s sign,
Her virgin spaces veiled in corn
And mists of twisting, tendrilled vine.
“Her mighty ribs in labor rose
To mightier issues, glade and glen
Her blood-sap stirred and in her throes
She sang. She mothered Titans then.
And stately to the sun and breeze
Her forests flourished fair and green
In shadowy colonnades of trees
And spaces shot with sun between.
“Man marked them, ruthless, as they grew,
And axe was laid to bough and bole;
With death-pangs stricken through and through
The iron entered in their soul.
“ They trembled, tottered, as they stood
And swayed together, bruised and marred ;
To fall at last, the mighty wood
In one massed ruin, heaped and scarred.
“ And lo ! these shadowy groves and glades
Are phantom vistas seen in dreams ;
The glens are full of ghostly shades
That darken o’er the silent streams.”
The mourning voices pass away,
And cease upon the air in sighs ;
Mists roll and gather, ghostly-gray,
Under the haggard ashen skies.
They shroud the sun and blot the blue,
Like wraiths the woodlands pass and fade,
And, where the clustered copses threw
O’er the green earth their grateful shade,
A blackened waste lies burned and bare,
The long, unsightly slope is sown
With ruins of the woods that were ;
Stricken and desolate and lone.
Maoriland.
MAUD PEACOCKE.
Food.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY waitress was away pursuing my
plate of roast beef rather longer than
usual, the other day, and I put in the
time watching how the noblest animal eats.
A dark, swarthy ruffian, in a retired corner
under the hat-rack, frowned at the menu for a
second, then hissed “ Steak ! ” and fell to clashing
his knife and fork together, as the girl fled to the
end of the room and wailed “Steak!” at a red-
faced man behind a counter, who looked as if he
expected bad news. As soon as the flurried wait-
ress spoke, he gave one agonised glance, as if his
worst suspicions had been confirmed, and darted
behind a screen. Another moment and he
whirled out again, and thrust a plate at the wait-
ress, who seized it and galloped up the room and
slid it in front of the waiting ruffian. There was
a fierce grunt of satisfaction, a flash of steel, and
the feeder’s knife and fork were buried in the
bosom of the meat. It was horrible—the plunge
•of the steel and the convulsive shudder of the
steak. The man’s dexterity proclaimed him an
assassin. The waitress recoiled from the spectacle
and tremblingly took an order for stew from a sad
man with one eye.
A hidden voice with the splash of tears in it
cobbed for “Stewed Tripe—no Onions!” and
somebody dropped a plate.
A grimy kid scuffled in and clawed for the
menu. He kept a tall, queenly girl standing at
his elbow while he ran a black forefinger twice up
and down the list. When the food came lie
squared his elbows and tore wildly at it, lifting it
to his mouth with both knife and fork, and look-
ing round as if he expected to be chased away from
it. It was exactly like a hungry rat.
* A cheerful old party with snow-white whiskers
munched rapidly at a pile of bread and butter.
His hair waved and ruffled in the draught from the
electric fan, and his bleached chin-furniture
jerked spasmodically up and down as he chewed.
It reminded me of a rabbit’s tail flickering in long
grass. He was mild, but weird, and his whiskers
looked as if he’d put them on for a lark.
An unkempt man, with few teeth, who looked
as if he had just got ashore from a wreck, gnawed
steak with the side of his mouth where the teeth
were, and talked politics with the other side
where the teeth were not. His friend, a dejected
man of middle age, brooded sadly over a junk of
something that a waitress had assured him was
plum pudding. He appeared to be lost in thought.
He was still lost when my beef arrived.. When
L was leaving he was half-way through, and his
tie was nearly over one ear.
KODAK.
Barney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IRAN across old Jimmy one day last
December. He was sitting on a candle-box
against a background of graceful cypress
pines, lazily mending a small hole in a mesh net.
• immy might have been anything between fifty
an a undred, but that was as much as was safe
to guess. He had spent the last twenty years of
bis life knocking round the foreshores of the
harbor. This much he confessed to. He was a
fisherman. That is to say he held a license—and
fished when he felt inclined. He was attired, as
usual, in a straw hat which might have been
purchased second-hand at the beginning of his
piscatorial career and never removed from his
s aggv head since ; a blue jersey with some fancy
darning in various colored worsteds; and a pair of
pants—-indescribable. The feet which protruded
through some of the holes in these last-mentioned
garments were a study in themselves. Never
having been fenced in by boots, they had strayed
over the surrounding country till they acquired a
width °f about six inches, while the great and
little toe broke off at angles, making the feet look
even wider. Each toe was separate, and Jimmy
would twist them about, one over the other
while he was talking. Jimmy’s toes always held
a fascination for me.
When net-fishing—which was most of the time
- immy found congenial employment as a racon-
teur. I opened our conversation with a remark
on the number of sharks in the harbor at the time.
± or a while we discussed these scavengers, treating
them from every point of view. Then Jimmy be-
came reminiscent.
“ There was a shark round North ’Arbor here
once,” he began, “as was a sort of mate of mine.
Leastways, p’raps you’d scarcely call ’im a mate,
but I came to feel that way to ’im. But I turned
dawg on ’im in the end.”
Jimmy shook his head mournfully. The recol-
lection was evidently painful. I asked him to tell
me about it.
Well, you see, it was this way. It was nine
year ago this month, far as I remember, that ’e
first came into the ’arbor. ’E was a big nurse,
bout sixteen feet, an’ a pasty-lookin’ customer ’e
was. I was fishing reg’ler that time, and making
a fair thing of it in the summer months. Well,
this old shark seemed a sociable sort of cuss, and
’e took a kind of fancy to me and used to follow
me about. Sure as I got aboard the dingy to cross
the bay, e’d turn up and run alongside, just’s if
’e was one of them little dawgs. The boys got to
know this, an’ it came to be a bit of a joke. They
called me the ‘ole ’ulk,’ an ’im ‘the barnacle,’
cause of ’ow ’e stuck to me. The name was as
good as any other, and soon we came to be callin’
’im Barney for short, and Barney ’e stayed till
the end.
It was all right-at first, when Barney let the
fishin’ alone, but when ’e took to ’elpin’ me to fish,
there was the devil to pay. Barney soon caught
the idea of ’ow the nets was worked, and, when
the mullet was cornin’ into the bay, ’e’d cruise
along outside ’em, and send ’em in shore. When
we got the net round ’em, ’e would come alongside
and watch em bein’ ’auled, as pleased with ’isself
as a. pup that s just killed the best rooster in the
yard. E was an amusin’ cuss, was Barney when
e got conceited about ’is mullet drivin’.
• , con ceit of ’is was the ruination of ’im
m the long run. Whether it was that ’e thoua-ht
we didnt handle the nets right, and wanted to
come and superintend personally, or whether ’e
was just curious to examine the ’ole affair at close
and, 1 never could rightly make out. Anywav
e next took to follerin’ the fish right in, which of
course they scattered, an’ we never got more than
a few stragglers. This was annoyin’, and made
us cuss a bit, but old Barney useter look so puzzled
when we didn’t make a ’aul that wo ’adn’t the
eart to be wrathy with ’im.
“’E saw that something was wrong, but ’e
couldn t quite make out what, and it seemed to
puzzle im for a long time. Then, what did ’e do
but take to cornin’ inside the net, just to see ’ow
it was we didn t get the fish there. ’Course there
was only one way out of a net for ’im, and chat
was through it. So through ’e would go. And
when a lfift. shark goes through a net, vou can
most always tell ’e’s been there. You may bet
your life on that. ’E was a ’umorous reptile, too
was Barney. ’E liked ’is joke, an’ it tickled ’im
immense to break through that net. We would
be drawin’ sometimes, makin’ sure ’e was nowhere
near, an then ’e’d come up inside the net, look
round with a ’alf shamefaced grin, then rush the
net, flickin’ ’is tail as ’e went through, breakin’
away a few more yards of it. Meantime we
weren t catchin’ much fish, an 5 Fred—’e was my
mate at the time—was gettin’ full up. Still I
couldn’t bring myself to ’urt Barney. ’E was so
intelligent an’ so full of fun.
“ One day, ’owever, we ’ad shot off Forty Bas-
kets round a big shoal of fantails, with no s"ign of
Barney anywhere. We reckoned we ’ad five
pound worth of fish in the net, and we was pretty
joyful. Just then there was great excitement in
the net, an the fish began jumpin’ over the corks
in undreds. Fred cussed, an’ so did I. There
was no need" to ask reasons. Up came that ole
sinner, Barney, fair in the middle of the fish
drivin’ them silly. Then ’e broke off through the
net, an’ took ’em all with ’im.
“ That settled it. I was fair mad, an’ that night
we ad a line out for Barney. ’E trusted us, poor
ole beggar, an’ soon ’e was cornin’ inshore, makin’
a great fight of it. I was in front of the rest of
the boys, an’ soon I saw ’is big grey snout cornin’
up. Soon as ’e saw it was me, ’e gave up fightin’
an’ came in quite quiet. I think it must er broke
is eart. Anyway, ’e didn’t give another kick I
was turned fair sick, and ’ad to let go the line
when he looked up at me. Then I knew that ’e
adn’t meant any ’arm by it all, but before I could
do anything, Fred ’ad laid the axe acrost ’is tail
and ’e was no more use.
“Fishin’ ain’t what it used to be now. I miss
ole Barney. Tin and me was good pals till ’e
tried to teach me to ’andJe a net. This ’ole ’ere ”
—he held up the net—“ was done by a fiddler.
1 hem s what you see about now. Ah, but you
should ’ave seen the ’ole old Barney could make
with a Hick of that tail of ’is. And I wont back
on ’im! ”
The old man was silent for a few minutes ' then
added—
“l’ve got’is jaws round at the ’umpy, if you’d
care to stroll round and see ’em.”
A.L.M.H.


Cured the Children
Eczema, Blotches on the Skin, Severe Itching, Sleep Disturbed,
Health Impaired. Now Healthy and Lively.
r
-
Mrs. E. Isaacs,
Caulfield, Vic-
toria, sends the
photograph of
herself and chil-
dren, and says:
M I have used
Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for three of
my children who
were troubled
wit*h eczema,
whioh, as you
well know, is a
troublesome itch-
ing disease,
breaking out in
blotches on the
skin and causing
no end of trouble
and discomfort to
the children by disturbing their sleep and upsetting their general health.
However, knowing of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to us© it, and now th©
ohildren are entirely free from any sign whatever of the complaint, and ar©
M healthy and lively as could be wished.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla cures skin diseases because it removes their cause. It
takes out all impurities from the blood, and then the skin quickly heals.
For sixty years Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been doing this grand work. There
is no other Sarsaparilla like it When there are impurities in the blood,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will promptly remove them, and will also make the blood
rich and red. Only be sure you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
PxwssrM by DR- J O aver cOwLowU. Km*.. V. A-
Henry Skinner,
Oiarendon-st,, South Melbourne*
Telephone W*. XUS. •^CATERER.
Nr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
oolonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Ofctered for
on Moot
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTC* and
Of Various
DANCING FLOORS
Supplied.
AMUSE THE CHILDREN.
AND YOUNG.
MAG1 X C LANTERNS.
No. 21, with 12 Slides, 1| inches wide, 4 views on
each, will show a good elear picture, 12/- post
free, anywhere; others, 2/-, 4/6, 5/6, 6/8,
7/6, 30/-, 35/-, 60/- each.
THESE ARE REAL GOOD YALUB.
STEAM tad CLOCKWORK ENGINES, All Prices.
Serb for Circular No. B,
«!• & A. SOYES, IRONMONGERS,
341 & 243 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A SOBER MAN
IS HIS OWN MASTER,
WHY BE A SLAVE TO DRINK?
Dr. Langston's Vegetable Cure for Alco-
holism never fails. A few doses produce
a wonderful change. The craving for all
intoxicants is destroyed, the nerves be-
come steady, the appetite for food returns,
refreshing sleep ensues.
IT MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY
and Curas are effected Quickly, Easily, Safely
and Permanently. DRUNKENNESS is a Dis-
ease, not a Habit, and Can be cured.
MOTHERS,SAVE YOUR SONS,
Release them from bondage whether they will
or not. My Cure takes away all desire for
liquor without,the''patient's knowledge.
My Book “Reclaimed,” No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address all Communications to the
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Mmith, Strength and Vigror Restored in
Four Weeks by using:
Q 6 R K COR O's
y_\ F €• •
H» only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, OE3ILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. Od.
Agents for Australasia— PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne ; K.S. ll'.— Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Conneu
Bt., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth,
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varioooele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remed; .
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charye
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE
Caution- -t-Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDa
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, ‘fee. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Dr.J. COLUS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number @f simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
ĥ
■*W-
Her Theatrical and
Domestic Hietorj.
Post Free, It
The Life, Adventure!
and Contesssiona of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, la
Ssnd Stamp for Ittwtratsd Lists of Books and MoveUies
Madame Panza.
Box 913, G.P.0.,
WEAK MADE STRONGI
Try Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
Price TWO GUINEA#.
IT Animates the sluggish
circulation, Stiai u lat es
the Brain to Activity.
and fills the body with
Life, Ambition, and En
dubanoe. It furnishes the
Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
eveiy morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energt and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ħ
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving: instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decav and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this Ik ok.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
h
ĥ
ħ
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
Ho the ears as glasses are to the
®y es - Invisible.. Comfortable.
Jn orn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Addreia—A. M. NABT, 145 Collin. St.. Melbourne
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
— _ - m.y
PILLS
I.'IOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetife Shortness of Lreatli. Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations. &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, arid ey will be acknowledged tm be “ W ORTH A
GUINEA A BOX." _
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, w Quickly restore females to complete hftelth. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, ana
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to t
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medteme in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, end 2s 9d eeofe.
THE BULLETIN BOOKS (the best and most characteristic Australian books) are sold by booksellers throughout
Australasia, or will be forwarded by post (with postage added) from Thu Bulletin Qffiee 214 George-street,
Svdnev in return for P. 0.0., postal note, or stamps of Australia or Maoriland. Editions de luxe of ON THE
HOP (asplendid collection of pictures), and PHIL MAY IN AUSTRALIA (“his best work,” says The ltta<««),
21s each : boxed and posted, 235. (A cheaper abridged edition of the latter only, 2s. 6<L ; posted 3?.)^ —FAIR Glßua
AND CRAY HORSES (cloth, with portrait) and HEARTS OF COLO (cloth, illus.), verses by Will Ogilvie ; 4a. fid. each ;
posted ss. AT DAWN AND DUSK (cloth, with portrait), verses by V. J. Daley, 4s. 6d. ; posted ss.—A SOUTHERN
GARLAND (cloth, with portraits), verses bv R. Quinn, J. Hebblethwaite, L. Mack, H. Church, B. O'Dowd; 4s. 6d.;
posted ss. -THE BULLETIN RECITER (cloth, illus.), the best Australian recitation-book, 4s. tki. ; posted os.—-
MAORILAND (cloth, with portrait), verses by A. H. Adams; 4s. 6d. ; posted Ss.——HITS,
SKITS, AND JINGLES, verses by W. T. Goodge, cloth 3s. 6d. (posted 3s. 9d.), paper 2a 6d. (posted 2a 9d.>
THE RED PAGAN, bv A. G. Stephens, cloth 6s. (posted 6a 3d.), paper 3s. 6d- (posted 3s. 9d.).— —
ON OUR SELECTION and OUR NEW SELECTION, by “ Steele Rudd ” (best books of Australian humour, 25,000 sold),
cloth, illus.. 6a each ; posted, 6s. ' THE BULLETIN STORY BOOK (best Australian stories), cloth 4s. 6d: ; posted
5s —SUCH 18 LIFE, a real Australian j'arn, by “ Tom Collins,” cloth 4s. 6d. : posted ss. CASTRO S LAST SACRA-
MENT and Other Stories by A. Dorrington, cloth 2s. 6d. ; posted 3s. BUSHMAN AND BUCCANEER (H. Moranta
life and verses), is. ; posted Is. 3d. A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH, by J.. Edmond, 6d. ; posted Sd.——
THE LAST OF SIX. stories by E. Pavetic, 6d. ; posted Bd. THE BULLETIN POST-CARDS (tfiree new series in
colours). Series lA. PHIL MAY. Series lIA, “HOP.” Series IV, BACK BLOCKS. Each series makes a packet of
Twelv; assorted carda Price, la per packet; posted Is. Id. The Bulletin Newspaper Company Ltd., 214 George
Streei Sydney, Australia.
I
ui Axiunoas
Carter's
h
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
(FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW BKIN.
Her TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small PHI. Small Data. Small PrM*.
Carter f s
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is. Id.
Pott Frtr~
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Edin.,
MAY BE CONSULTED FREE
By Letter or Personally', in All Diseases of Men and Women. Being a Consulting Physician in All Diseases, and
a specialist in aii Nervous, skin and Urinary Complaints.
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a thoroughly trustworthy and competent
Physician, who treats all cages at Moderate Charges, and
GUARANTEES A CURE in all ca«es undertaken by him.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—“ Specimen ” Copies . f Dr. Martin’s New Medical Work, “ THE DISEASES OF
MEN AND WOMEN,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps to cover postage. Patients who applied for
FREE “ .Specimen ” Copies at the beginning of the year (and have not vet received them) can now obtain same
by sending Name and Address, and Stamps (6d.) for postage. “MIND OVER MATTER " posted to any
patient FREE on receipt of Six Stamps.
REMEMBER ! Every Sufferer (man or woman) should possess a complete copy of “ The Diseases of Men and
Women,” and Dr. Martin will send the Complete Work to bona-fide patients, FOR ONE MONTH, for Three
Shillings (postage included). This is hothing more or less than
IPBT* A FREE GIFT TO EVERY SUFFERER
on Dr. Martin’s part (the actual cost of each copy to him, with postage, is this amount), the opinion of the
Entire Australian Press being that the wprk is
THE FINEST WORK OF ITS KIND EVER PUBLISHED IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
(vide Press Extracts, sent on application). Price to General Public, 7/6 (may be obtained at ell leading book-
sellers). All communications should be addressed to
" ELMLEY HOUSEISI ELIZABETH ST., HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


Asbestos ...
Boiler Covering:
Has Proved its Economy Times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3wt. casks.
75., Bs., Os. owt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 12a., 145.,
los. cwt.
It Saves 25 per cent, in Fuel.
Perdriau Rubber Co.™
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.**
h
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEH made bv Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd is
separatey examined by experienced hav’s
and any found defective are discarded.
C3 r ' BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM!.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
CHEAM, IN TUBES,
Soap and
Powder.
KALODtR^’
Sold by alt Chemists & Storekeepers.
j
THE FINEST
AKIN PREPARATIONS
IN THE IYORLD.
ĥ
i-fllHllll/lflBSyi & 00., Melbourne & Sydney.
THE
LAST
OF SIX.
Price 6d.»
Post Free
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all paina of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Pojnqukstub & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effeetuaily destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOI.D IN TWO SIZKS, 9d. & Is. 6<J.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poinodkstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
** Independence/'
IS THE BRAND OF
PERFECTLY BALANCED
Wood Split Pulleys*
SOLD BY
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd..
60 CLARENCE STREET ,
SYDNEY.
Alt sizes in stock . Write for Prices.
KNOWLES
STEAM PUMPS
of all kinds.
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills
and Air Compressors.
Morris Centrifugal Pumps.
ENGINES AND BOILERS,
Horizontal and 'Vertical.
Engineers Fittings.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Write for Prices and Particulars.
“UTOPIA”
, SAVES .
MONEY, TIME, LABOR.
It is the name of an
AUTOMATIC VYCE
that no joiner or fitter should
be without.
Descriptive Catalogue on
APPLICATION TO
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAM PA’
POCKET
KNIVES
mrm the
BBS 7.
ħ
ITiU
Ftmt-Olaj*
Storm
n Achtralawul
No. 8160.
1 Bladr.
Cocoa Handle m 1/ •
Buffalo Handle - f/8
Stag Handle - - - //<?
JOHM BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
i
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
and
STOVES
Manufacturers in IS .S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers aot as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES!
658 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
)
AN receipt of P. 0.0.
” forward to anv
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
o/~ we w
. in Australia one
. GOLD-FILLED
10CHES, with either
Bel}, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed the same
quality as brooch ; and without pendant;, 3/6. In 15c,t.
C.K Twisted Wire, 86 : vyithout Pendant, 6/6. Ulus
trated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully addressed
to R. SIMS, Cold Wire King:, Cole's Book Arcade,
Melbourne, Vic.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. E-3LIDT?,XIDG-jEI: & GO.
DYERS & ri.KANKKS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
i ountry Orders by poxt./rom nil the colonies promptly
attended to.
@333
Size, 6J x 3J" x 6"«
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale—
h
(all sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
o*7 CX.A.HESKTCEI STREET, SITEKrEY.
The CARD Concentrator
has a much GREATER CAPACITY than any other; on some ores being: twice as great.
It also produces Concentrates of HIGHER VALUE and poorer tailing^.
Evidence of these facts will be furnished by the Agents —
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
