

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
WHOLESALE AGENTS: ORME-KEIGWIN & CO., LTD., 269 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
107 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mining ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS AIiWAYS AVAILAPT &
t
Bend for
Prices and
Particulars.
Descriptive
Catalogues
on
Application.
Most
Up-to-Create
Machines.
KIRCHNER & C£§
Sawing & Woodworking Machinery,
Vertical & Horizontal Band Mills,
MBaHan.-HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD
“G-ra-ndL I»ri3c,” Faria
1800.
GENTS
BATTLE & GO 85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
HOBART,
jjadley’s Orient |ote!.
ţ
SCOTLAND
\
WHISKY
CHUBB’S SAFES
EVE RTWHBRB.
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wale* Branch:
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “WS
\
(jUk
to
ARE YOU A TRADER?
ť
Isn§MiEm
t?n V
H (toi in .1 u J
i‘jOW V- ... JL.
THE AUSTRALIAN TEA TRADING COMPANY’S Celebrated Teas Numbers t £2 are warranted FREE from Common, Coarse or Inferior Low Priced
Teas of any description whatever. These DELICIOUS Teas will be found the BEST VALUE on the Australian Market and are recommended for
their Strength, Purity and DELIGHTFUL Flavor.
Traders will find it ADVANTAGEOUS to place their Orders permanently with the AUSTRALIAN TEA TRADING CO. who are the Largest
DIRECT Wholesale Tea Distributors in the Commonwealth. Principles of Business:—We supply the Purest and Finest Teas. We trade
equitably and honorably with ALL. We reciprocate mutually with our patrons by a WIDE and generous publicity throughout Australasia.
We guarantee by Scientific and Expert knowledge the Absolute Purity of every Tea supplied under our Registered Name and Trade Mark.
YOU
tOLE PROPRIETORS OF
Then we say most emphatically that it will be to your ADVANTAGE to
become A PERMANENT CUSTOMER OF OURS. Faithfully yours,
The Australian Tea Trading Co.
M'INTYRE BROS.
105 Elizabeth St..
MELBOURNE.
BANKERS— The Bank of Australasia, Melbourne
bears our
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
A.T.T. CO.’S CELEBRATED TEAS.
These TEAS are
Worth
1,3 and 1/6 per lb.
Respectively.
A.T.T. CO.
j.
A.T.T. CO.
2:
1001 b. CHEMS
901 b. „
801 b. „
601 b. „
501 b. „
ALSO AS UNDER:—
801b. CASE containing 4—201b. BOXES
SO „
SO,,
80 „
80 „
GO „
CO
CO „
GO „
CO „
SO „
8-10 „
16-5 „ „
80—1 „ PACKETS
ICO-}
(s—:o „
IS—5
£0-1 „
120—} „
50—1
100-} „
BOXES
PACKETS
A PRO FORMA INVOICE, with full partiottlil
will be sent to any bona-fide trader on application.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
mm
the Queen of all Cocoas
FOI^
Aroma,Strei\gtKt'Purit)C
ŧ
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALSTERS,
Manufacturers Of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
REGULAR PATTERN.
QMfIEBON STEAM, AIR,
and POWER PUMPS.
SUREST,
SIMPLEST and
STRONGEST.
UNBREAKABLE.
FOR BOILER FEEDING,
MINING and CHEMICAL WORKS,
SHAFT SINKING and IRRIGATION.
POWER PUMP.—Cut Illustrates size 7x12
VERTICAL SINKING PUMPS
A SPECIALTY.
DIFFERENTIAL PLUNGERS for GRITTY WATER.
STOCKS HELD.
SOLE A6ENTS-
W. and J. LEMPRIERE,
• 506 LITTLE COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE
m
m
i
Vflrtloat Plunger Sinking PtimpJJ
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
"> %
M
I
-
S'
THE PINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued In Australia.
Three Hundred of “Hop's 8 Pictures, superbly produced. A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
LITHIA WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.26.—N0. 1301.]
[Thursday, January 19, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOK
Kier°, Palmistry and Clairvoyance, ss, post 6d.
« hite, Petrol Motors and Motor Cars, 6s, post free.
Hedderwick, Do We Believe \ R.P.A. Series,
Christianity and Rationalism / Sd each, posted.
Boothby, Desperate Conspiracy, paper 2s 6d, cloth
3s Cd, postage 6d.
Tom Browne’s Xmas Annual, Is, post 3d.
Newne’s Empire Handy Atlas, Is 3d, post 4d.
Brown, A. J., New Forces in Old China, (is, post Sd.
Tweedie, Sunny Sicily, Its Rustics and its Ruins, -21 s.
Haeckee, The Wonders of Life, author of Riddle of the
Universe, 7s 6d, post 6d.
ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagrh-st., Sydney. And at Melbourne, t
Australian Art and Humour —
ON THE HOP !
Just Published. A superb library volume, hand-
somely printed and bound ; containing upwards of
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full
“ Bulletin ” size. , Price, 21s. ___
~ THE BULLETIN
Picture Post-Cards in golours
commend themselves wherever shown. Hivnourous
and other pictures by “Hop,” Phil Mp.y, and
various Australian Illustrators.
In three series; thirty-six different
'(Twelve cards in packet.
Price. Is. per packet.
Of all stationers and newsagents, or by
the Publishers.
esigns
,3t from
m
m
ld .a.
o ijte
Mof Great Service in Affections
'(of the Voice ft Throat’/
The Ausft*&i&siM)Medicol u&zetfe s&ys.—
Bold by Chemists, tins, 1/6, or from the Manufacturer, G. Hudsont,l^aiTstates&N'z'andat 32o’Regent-st.,'W.Londoß
Stamps. Sydney Depdt: 5 & 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian otatesaa., anuau
THE RED PAGE .
PRAYER IN TIME OF RECKONING.
y y JS'iJ.E' again, Twenty-fifth of December !
§ # we laugh through our tears at
M M the date.
-M. We 're a good thing or two to remember,
As we wipe our regrets off the slate.
Though Pluto may starve us or skimp us,
A fig for the chances we miss !
Who cares, while we 're free of Olympus,
And Hebe laughs low to our kiss ?
0, Mother of Loves, the Almighty,
The ageless, and faultless, and siveet !—
0, exquisite lithe Aphrodite,
Whose slaves are as gods at your feet /
Uphold us, preserve us, befriend us,
Who, save for your strength, were so weak,
Let our lives (from mean virtues defend us !)
Be spacious and fragrant and Greek !
Stand by us, and hold us, and guile us
Each day by your woods and your streams l
At the heart of each night sit beside ns,
Your lips on the lips of our dreams !
Fair heights that are goodly and pleasant !
Soft scents of wild thyme and the sea !
With Love in the exquisite present ,
Who recks of the Things that May Be !
We still have some splendid illusions ,
Some prospects divine and anblurred ;
We laugh at the stupid confusions
And trumpery hopes of the herd.
Well armed ’mid earth's pestilent rancour
We wedded Olympians are,
With the wife’s morning kiss for sheet-anchor,
And the eyes of the baby for star.
And our friends, “without capitulation
Are loyal and staunch, and we know
That at need, without great trepidation,
We can still spin a sormet or so.
Once again, Twenty-fifth of December !—
And we laugh with delight at the date....
We ’ve some very good things to remember,
As we wipe our regrets off the slate !
TAS.
F.M.
M RMORANDA
Prof. Allbutt states the results of two thorough
Amer. experimenters on the energy-value of foods.
It appears that an excess of food does not escape
mechanically and cheaply from the body, but is
elaborately absorbed, distributed, and excreted :
to this circular process no little energy is uselessly
diverted. Energy is chiefly wasted by the nitro-
genous foods, which are relatively difficult to get
rid of ; excessive starches and sugars are burned
off in the lungs pretty directly, and at far less
cost. By an adjustment of food to work required,
the sum of work mav be greatly increased. And,
once more, “ the ordinary man eats too much.”
C. A. Pearson’s purchase of Bond. Standard,
the old-fashioned Conservative organ that is to be
converted into an exoonent of Chamberlain’s
Brummagem policy, did not issue without heart-
burning. The old-fashioned Conservative editor
disappeared in a wave of indignation ; and
Winston Churchill, taking up the cause of the
journalist, penned some warm sentences in the
controversy that followed. Counting ten papers
controlled by Pearson, he adds: “Surely this
formidable list of allied publications scattered all
over the country, assuming local character, pro-
fessing unbounded independence, but all workec
like marionettes by the chairman of the Tariff
Reform League, will excite some disquieting re-
flections. Such combinations, so far as they are
effective, must inevitably degrade journalism from
the status of an honoured profession like medicine
or law to a sordid and irresponsible traffic in words
and phrases.”
The advertised “additions” to Swinburne’s
Heptalogia, now reprinted in his collected Poems
prove to be unimportant. There is a new couplet
for Tennyson ; three new stanzas for Browning
and for Lytton is added a “specimen from the
speaker’s original poems”—a mixture of theft anc
nonsense. The complete essence of Tennyson now
reads thus (with the new distich in italic):
The Higher Pantheism in a Nutshell.
One, who is not, we see ; but one, whom we see not, is :
Surely this is not that: but that is assuredly this.
What, and wherefore, and whence ? for under is over anc
under:
If thunder could be without lightning:, lightning- could be
without thunder.
Doubt is faith in the main : but faith, on the whole, is
doubt:
We cannot believe by proof : but could we believe with-
out ?
Why, and whither, and how ? for barley and rye are not
clover :
Neither are straight lines curves : yet over is under and
over.
Two and two may be four: but four and four are not
eight:
Pate and God may be twain: but God is the same thing
as fate.
Ask a man what he thinks, and get from a man what he
feels:
God, once caught in the fact, shows you a fair pair of
heels.
More is the whole than a part: but half is more than the
' whole:
Clearly, the soul is the body: but is not the body the soul 1
One and two are not one : but one and nothing is two :
Truth can hardly be false, if falsehood cannot be true.
Once the mastodon was : pterodactyls were common as
cocks:
Then the mammoth was God : now is he a prize ox.
Parallels all thing are: yet many of these are askew :
Ifou are certainly I: but certainly-1 am not you.
Springs the rock from the plain, shoots the stream from
the rock:
Cocks exist for the hen : but hens exist for the cock.
Tv°jj’i W^oni we se . e not >’ s : and God, who is not, we see :
riddle, we know is diddle : and diddle, we take it, is dee.
THE LIGHT GREKS
IN a limited and self-centred society like
a University’s, it is natural that aca-
demic exploits should be extolled and
cherished somewhat beyond their merits.
Yet one need not complain of the friendly devo-
tion that collects, with an account of his brief life,
the Cambridge verses of A. C. Hilton. Chas. Whib-
ifU h- good. judge, calls Hilton s The Light Green
perhaps the most brilliant periodical which the
University of Cambridge has produced.” Apart
from the parodies, there is little for general readers
to profit by; but these are so happily touched that
after thirty years they are delightful. It was
Hilton who wrote for “Bret Harte” “The
Heathen Pass-ee,” with the felicitous verse:
In the crown of hits cap
Were the Furies and Fates,
And a delicate map
Of the Dorian States,
And ive found in his palms, which were holloiv,'
What are frequent in palms,—that is dates.
To Hilton, also, we are indebted for what seems
on the whole the brightest parody of Swinburne’s
‘Dolores.” Seaman’s clever “ Song of Renunci-
ation” is heavily weighted with satire :
Panatheist, bruiser and breaker
Of kings and the creatures of kings,
I shouted on Freedom to shake her
Feet loose of the fetter that clings ;
For rolling my ravenous red eye,
And lifting a mutinous lid,
To all monarchs and matrons I said I
Would shock them—and did.
Hilton’s “Octopus” ripples more spontane-
ously :
Strange beauty, eight-limbed, and eight-handed,
Whence earnest to dazzle our eyes'!
With thy bosom bespangled and banded
With the hues of the seas and the skies;
Is thy home European or Asian,
0 mystical monster marine ?
Part molluscous and partly crustacean,
Betwixt and between...
0 breast that’t were rapture to writhe on 1
O arms’t. were delicious to feel
Clinging close with the crush of the Python
When she maketh her murderous meal !
In thy eight-fold embraces enfolden,
Let our empty existence escape,
Give us death that is glorious and golden
Crushed all out of shape !
Ah ! thy red lips, lascivious and luscious,
With death in their amorous kiss,
Cling round us, and clasp us, and crush us
With bitings of agonised bliss ;
We are sick with the poison of pleasure,
Dispense us the potion of pain ;
Ope thy mouth to its uttermost measure
And bite us again !
[Oar own J. B. Stephens threw his witty address
to the Southern Cross into Swinburne’s metre,
without troubling to preserve the details of
parody :
Next to Hilton’s one would put the “Colores”
of E. C. Lefroy, an Oxford man :
0 love that is redder than roses !
O hate that is whiter than snow !
That blinkedlj / blindedly blazes
When black-blooded blast-blisses blow ;
Desert us, disdaining 0 never !
Still fashion our fatuous fate ;
0 lick us and kick us for ever,
Red love and white hate !...
By the fin-smashing fists that have smitten
The bruises that blacken and bud,
By the tawny-tailed cur that has bitten
When the thong has come down with a thud. ..
Ye bards that make Bedlam your model,
Remove your absurdities hence !
Come down and redeem us from twaddle,
Benign Common-sense /]
Hilton’s “ The Vulture and the Husbandman ”
is a delectable parody of Lewis Carroll ” :
“ The time has come," the Vulture said,
“ To talk of many things,
Of Accidence and Adjectives,
And names of Jewish kings,
How many notes a sackbut has,
And whether shawms have strings."
“ Please, Sir,” the Undergraduates said,
Turning a little blue,
“ We did not know that was the sort
Of thing we had to do.”
“ We thank you much,” the Vulture said,
“ Send, up another two ”...
Hilton’s serious verse is lightly touched : it
expresses little more than evanescent sentiment,
and brings no warrant of individuality. He died
at twenty-six, leaving his gay little bevy of rhymes
to make the world brighter. “ All human joys
are transient”—as “ George Eliot,” to the disgust
of undergraduates, remarked on being asked what
she thought of tne turmoil of University boat-
races.
Hubert Church’s new Poems ask us again to
sympathise with the pioneers. He would adapt
his verse to his new nation, so he uses familiar
words like guilt/ and kauri, and they hamper his
verse: they are not yet woven into literary lan-
guage, are too near yet too remote. Even creek,
in the Australasian sense, is a “difficult” word.
But gully :
If ever horn of hunter sivayed an echo
On thy dark gully p 001 5...
gully is almost “impossible.” And how different
it is, in poetry, to fell an oak and fell a kauri !
By dint of usage our minds will incorporate the
impression ; but in the meantime valiant verse-
writers lose the fine flavour of fitness —precisely
because their language is literally befitting.
Not quite what the shape of a cross is —
A little lop-sided , l own—
(Confound your infernal proboscis,
Inserted well-nigh to the bone !)
Queen-lights of the heights of high heaven,
Ensconced in the crystal inane—
(Oh me, here are seventy times seven
Moapdtoes again!)
THE BRIGHT BEACH
FROM The Native Tribes of South-East Aus-
tralia, by A. W. Howitt (Lond., Macmillan;
21s. net), one sees that the great Australian
Aboriginal Game is losing its interest. For
years and years ethnologists have been playing
hide-and-seek among the customs of the most com-
plicated race on earth, and chasing fascinating
hypotheses through the gaps in the evidence.
Now the fun is growing cold. The Australian
aboriginal has been explained over and over again;
and though we have still to learn about many
tribes of him, there is little doubt that these will
exhibit merely another pattern of the same stuff.
The blackfellow is literally an open book. Howitt,
dealing with S.E. Australia, joins hands with Roth
on the N.E. and Spencer and Gillen in the centre,
and only the West remains to be brought up to
modern date. So passes the mystery of the abo-
riginal. -
Howitt, whose collection of observations is last
to be published, was one of the first to observe.
This weighty volume is the work of a lifetime,
and earns “ Well done !” for a good and faithful
servant of science. Here is the gathering of forty
years in the Australian wilderness, from time to
time recorded partially, now written down fully
and methodically as a lasting contribution to
humanity’s knowledge of* humanity. The author
and Australia are heartily to be congratulated.
**
Howitt says that most of his material was col-
lected before 1889; and owing to the decay of the
aboriginal race many of his sources of information
have now disappeared. He stresses Dr. Lorimer
Eison’s connection with his earlier inquiries, and
says “much of what I have done is equally” Dr.
Fison’s.
Howitt’s main field corresponds roughly with the
territory of Victoria, N.S. Wall's, and 8. Queens-
land. This territory, at the arrival of the whites,
was parcelled out among scores of tribes, often
differing widely in language and customs. With
patient labour Howitt has plotted out all the in-
formation he'could obtain respecting every tribe,
and ranged it under such headings as tribal and
social organisation, systems of marriage arid magic,
and ceremonies and usages. He has been helped
greatly by correspondents in obtaining details in-
accessible to himself personally, and in the result
we have another complete picture of aboriginal
life —here and there vague in outline, but full of
colour, and doubtless in the main a truthful recon-
struction of the fact.
Necessarily the work is rather for the student
than the general reader, but the range of Howitt’s
observations and the plan of his book give it
especial interest. Compared with those of other
investigators, Howitt’s pages have more variety.
Spencer and Gillen are fuller ; Roth is - more sys-
matie ; but Howitt gives the easiest access to the
subject : his book is less a document than a series
of stories. For a compact survey we still go to
Mathew’s Eaglehawl; and Crow, which contains an
interesting exposition of the theory of Malayan
mixture. Howitt will have none of the Malays in
their definite historical form. He suggests that
the Tasmanians were an offshoot from the primi-
tive Negritos of S.E. Asia, while the Australians
represent a later Melanesian offshoot. The subsi-
dence of Bass Strait segregated the Tasmanians as
the subsidence of Torres Strait segregated the
Australians.
S
LTpon the anthropological and mythological pro-
blems of the pundits it is needless here to venture.
This brief notice of an indispensable book may
close with a song from Howitt’s interesting section
dealing with music. Many performers, it appears,
compose the “words and songs” of the aboriginal
opera when they are asleep or dreaming : Umbara
was different. Umbara was a sea-fisherman, and
owned a good Sydney-built boat, which he
managed with the aid of his wife. This is the
song he composed when going down the coast in
his boat:—
Winbelow is a grafted English word, really “the
wind blows.” Freely translated, the song means :
“Between the furious wind and the dashing
waves of the long-stretched sea I was nearly
upset.”
Homeric, is it not ?
In a material shape, the “ printer’s devil ” exists
no longer. The boy who blackened Gutenberg’s
wooden types with an ink-ball, and smeared him-
self into a symbol of the Lord of Darkness, has
become a literary figment, an exhibit in the vast
collection of fossils that we call language. Yet
there is still a manifest devil in a printing-office—
a tricksy imp who delights in setting the best-laid
lines agee. Frank Morton’s script m iddens him.
Not long ago he altered a verse of amorous regret—
Her twining limbs that hold me and are sweet
into
Her twining limbs that hold me and are sweat.
The reading was not without realistic merit, but
seemed unlikely.to win approval from a conven-
tional community. In the verses printed on this
page the clever imp would have two lines thus :
Let our wives (from mean vultures defend us !)
Be spacious and fragrant and Greek.
There is only an adjective for demurral.
In George Moore’s reprinted Confessions, “edited
and annotated by G.M.,” he says the book con-
tains the germs of all his writings, all his pro-
phecies. “Those whom I have brushed aside,
where are tbev ? Stevenson, so well described as
the best-dressed young man that ever walked in
the Burlington Arcade, has slipped into nothing-
ness, despite the journalists and Mr. Sidney
Colvin’s batch of letters.”
UMBARA'S SONG.
Galaoala binya buninga. ngali
Capsizing me striking me
winbelow jena ngarauan tidja
the wind blows hard the sea long-stretched
kandubai buninga melinthi buninga
between striking hard hitting striking
ngali mulari binja buninga
me dashing up me striking.
RECEIVED
The Career of Harold Endsleigh, by W. B.
Harris (Load., Blackwood ; 2s. 6cL). The author
is apparently a beginner, but he has a natural
storytelling gift. His imagination is weaker than
his experience.
Cricket Drill and Training, by A.O.D. (Lond.,
Long; Is.). The author urgessomewhat quaintly that
not cricket makes the cricketer, but preliminary
practice of attitudes—used as a means of training
judgment, mind, and muscles. The booklet
describes and pictures the chief hits and guards.
In foul-weather England the theory may have
value : otherwise the best cricket rehearsal is per-
formance.
The League of the Leopard, by H. Bindloss
(Loud., Long; 2s. (id.). Love and adventure in
Scotland and West Africa, not badly managed.
II a, Idhisin, No. 4 (Rangoon, International
Bud lhist Society; 35.) A delayed and weak
number : the editor, one regrets, is sick, still sick.
An assistant editor with the portentous name of
J. F. McKechnie has arrived : one views him not
without trepidation. Our friend Ananda M.,
who pierces the cloud of the Mystic Doctrine with
arrays and brings the last discoveries of science
in witness to the truth of dogma, is this time in-
decisive ; and the maga. is occupied with the
testimony of Chinese astrology that ‘.‘ this country
of Tibet rests on a Srinmo (goblin) lying bn her
back. The lake of Ho-thang contains her blood,
the two hills that stand near it are her bosom . . .
It is necessary to erect a saneituafy on the lake
after filling it up with earth conveyed' to the spot
on goats, so as to close up the passage to hell which
exists underneath it.” One sympathises with
Khri-tsun, the Nepalese princess, who “became
disheartened,” and exclaimed, “ How many mil-
lions of goats will be required to carry earth for
tilling up the lake of Ho-thang, and over what a
number of years the work will extend ! ”
The novels of Greening’s “Colonial Library”
are a class by themselves. They seem to be
written by clever young Oxford men, with a lean-
ing towards epigram, the arts, and the altar of the
Anglican “ High Church.” C. Ranger-Gull, who
won something like a success of scandal with The
Hgpocrite, has the most obvious air of sparkling.
In his new book, .Pontalone (3s. 6d.), he is greatly
serious, and contrasts high idealists with low
artists in an original fashion. The scene is laid in
Cornwall, where A. G. Folliott-Stokes seems to
have shared a holiday and matured A Moorland
Princess (2s. 6 d.) The princess moves in a new
robe to the old sacrifice —witness “ The End ” :
Strong arms clasped her in a warm Lips met
lips in passionate understanding, and sealed in sileht
contact their eternal vow.
Inexhaustible ‘ ‘ arms ’’ and ‘‘ lips ” L “The End”
of Portalone, you perceive, is distinctly on another
floor :
“Are you there, heart of my heart?” she whispered.
“ Are you there, noblest gentleman, tenderest lover,
truest and most honourable knight?”
When it Was Dark (L\), by Guy Thorne; differs
again. Simply :
Christ is risen !
The story is Oxford at its youngest and quaintest.
Sensational religionists might swoon to read how
a Bad Man forged an inscription at Jerusalem to
ruin a cherished dogma. When the dogma fell,
everything fell-even from Australia “ the fore-
most prelate” wrote of “the utter overthrow
of a communal moral sense.” The farrago is
funny, and the expression of High Church disgust
with Mrs. Humphry Ward is very funny. Now
that the picture of When It Was Dark is cheaper
at Is., it ’s a poor heart that will never rejoice in
the purchase.
“ Everything’s in attitude,” says a philosophic
Yankee. “Adam, William Tell, and Isaac
Newton all had business with an apple, but how
differently they took it! —and how different were-
the results ! ”
George Gissing, as a novelist, was a kind of
literary embalmer of the living: in Veranilda he
tries vainly to resuscitate the dead. The book is-
laboured and tedious. It requires the vitality of a
Scott or a Dumas to recreate a vanished age by
dint of imagination : weak-pulsed men must thrust
their hands into' the side of-life to bring assurance
of existence. —We see Gissing left an estate of
959 Z., beside his novels.
Fragments—
“ Did she really mean it?” “Yes, she wept all over
my tie.”
“ Beer,” he said dreamily, “is a strange thing. It kills
you, but then it makes you live.”
“ What, going to church ! ” “ Yes, my doctor has pre-
scribed all the bromides.”
“ I think men' are disgusting. They ’re vulgar, dirty,
greedy, hairy, cruel pigs.” “Ah but, my dear, they ’re,..
different.”
“ He saves others ; himself he cannot save.”
“The Lond. publishing trade is in a very bad way.
Another publisher has just gone under; two more are
tottering.”— News Item.
Publishers are like poppies spread,
You watch a firm , it files its sched. I
Or like a snowflake in the river,
It liquidates—and goes for ever.
A.G.S.


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
-an,. SYDNEY.
■ll*ll lINPII r-
STOC
HOMEBUSH (N.S.W.) IT ARBS.
WINCHOOMBE, CARSON & CO., Lt
SHEEP and CATTLE SALESMEN.
>r
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, Slfifrl&lEiY'
I
BEST QUALITY
Greenheart Rods,
12ft., 3 Jo
,12ft., 3
33ft., 3
12ft., 3
12ft., 3
12ft., 4
16ft., 4
Bft., 4
nts, 2 Tops, Lock Joints, 50s each
2 ~ Double Braized, 26s each
2 ~ Cork Grip, 265, 20s eacli
2 ~ Best Fitting’s, 15s each
1 ~ Best Fittings, 8s each
1 ~ Best Fittings, 12s Od each
3 ~ Hollow Butt, 30s each
2 ~ Trunk Rods—
16s !)d, 13s 6d, 12s 9d, 10s 6d each
1 Top, 7s 3d each
Greenheart Rods, any description
built to ORDER, Is 6d per ft.
Best Split
Cane Rods.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
Cork Grip & Handle,
50s each.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
Cork Grip, 40s each.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
Cork Grip, 22s Od each.
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops,
(in Wooden Case), Cork
Handle, 11s 6d each.
/y °4vo
Best Hickory Rods
14ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 27s 6d each
12ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, 5s 6d each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 4s 9d each
12ft., 4 Joints, 2 Tops, 14s 6d each
10ft., 5 Joints, 2 Tops, 5s each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 2s each
Best Lancewood Rods
12ft., 3 Joints, 2 Tops, 10s fid each
12ft., i Joints, 1 Top, 5s 0(1 each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 2s each
12ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, 7s each
10ft., 3 Joints, 1 Top, Is 61 each
12ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, Is each
Best Quality East India Cane Rods
16ft., 4 Joints, 2 Tops, 30s each
lo'ft., 4 Joints, 20s each
18ft., 4 Joints, 2 Tops, 24s each
16ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, 7s 6d each
15ft., up to 17ft., 4 Joints, 1 Top, 10s 6d each.
15ft., 3 Joints, 3s 6d each
jyrtoo
m
■ ;
iuar
Nottingham
Wood
Reels
No. 3. Walnut Check Ree’
(2 Plates), Brass Inside
Lining-—3in., 8s Cd ea. ;
34in., 9s 6d ea. ; 4in.,
10s (id ea. ; sin., 18s 6d
each
Walnut Check Reel, Star
Back, No Guard, —3in.,
5s 6d ea. ; 3iin., 6s 3d
ea.; 4in., 7s ea.; 4jin.,
8s 6d each
mmam
■c
1
rf?i
No. 1. Polished Walnut
Reel, Brass Back—2in.,
Is 9d ea. ; 2Jin., 2s ea. ;
3in.,3sea. ; 3£in.,3s6d
ea. ; 4in., 4s each
Gun-metal
Check Real
2jin., 3s 6d ea ; 2Jin., 6s6d
ea. ; 2in., 14s ea. ; 3in.,
16s 9d each
Brass
Cneck Resls
Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d each
Boys’ Wood Reels
Trout,
Herring,
Perch,
Sprat.
t
We carry a Large and Varied Stock of
Flies of all Descriptions*
Best Quality Trout Flies, Nos. 6 to 12 Hooks, Is 9d per dozen.
Best Quality Herring or Sprat Flies, Nos. 14 to 6 Hooks, Is per dozen
Best Quality Perch Flies to Looped Gut, Is, Is 3.1, Is 6d each.
Best Quality Perch Flies on 8 inch Looped Gut, Nos. 3, 2/0 Hooks, 4d
Best Quality Artificial Prawns, Is each ; Shrimp, 9d each ; Rubber Froi
Best Quality Halcyon Spinners for Trout or Perch, lin., Is each ; Uin.
6d, 9d each.
?s; 9d each.
, Is 3d each.
Turn Down Eyed
Trout Flies
Nos. 14 to 8 hooks,
Is 9d dozen
ţ
BAIT CANS.
JAPANNED BAIT CANS, for Carrying Live Minnows,
8s 6d, 10s Gd each.
PATENT ZINC BAIT CAN, for Carrying Live Minnows, 6s each.
DOUBLE-SIDED TACKLE BOX, for Casts, Traces, Gut, &c„ 6d each
JAPANNED BAIT BOXES, Is, 2s Gd each
JAPANNED MINNOW BOX, Is Gd each
Illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports and
Tobacco Lists Post Free.
Barrel
Float
The Patent Nyssa Fishing Floats
(Can be used as Sliding' or Fixed Floats).
ť
BARREL SHAPE.
ljin., ljin., 4d each ; 2in., 2}in., 5d
each ; 2|in., 6d each ; 3in., 7d each ;
3£in., 8d each ; 4in., 9d each ; 4Ain.,
1/- each ; sin., 1/3 ea. ; 6in., 1/6 ea.
EGG SHAPE.
ljin., lfin., 4d. each ; 2in. Sd each
TWILL BAG.
No. 3.—Twill Bag:, with
2 Divisions and Move-
able Strap, 14in.,
2s 3d each.
Brown Canvas Open
Sides, 12in., 4s 6d;
14in., Cs 6d each.
Striped Canvas Bags,
16in., 9d each.
ANGLER’S BASKETS
12in., 6s ; 14in., 7s 3d ;
16in., 8s 6d ; 18in., 9s 6d each.
Tanned Web Movable Straps
for Baskets, Is 3d each.
Tanned Web Straps, 3in.,
Is 6d each.
F
No. 3
S.AtLCOCK & C 1
Patent
t
Ring-mounted
Devon.
Devon
Minnows
Assorted Goioro.
ljin., Uin., Ijin., 2in., Is 3d each
RingedJievon Minnows, in Colors,
ljin., Ijin., Ifin., 2in., Is 6d each
Silk
Phantom
Minnows
l£in., 2in., 2Jin.,
2Jin., 2s each
Pearl Minnows 2/6 ea
Esg Float.
■ I jlj_ Bri ht or Japanned Hooks to Sin,
O 3L Ft I ©©X S “ Blue or White Gut (tied on).
Nrs. 10 to I/O, 8d dozen; 2/0, 9d dozen ; 3/0, lOd dozen.
ŧ
SILKWORM GUT
25in. hank, 3d,
The Reliable Silkworm Gut Casts an
TraGSS. Blue, White or Green.
1 yard Casts—ld, 2d, 3d, 4d, Cd each.
2 yard Casts—2d, 4d, 6d, Bd, Is each.
1 j yards Traces, fitted with 2 Swivels, 6d, 9d,
Is, Is 3d, Is 6d each.
BEST SILKWORM CUT, in 100 Lots, Blue
White or Green, 9in., 9d 100 ; 10in., lOd
100; llin., Is 100; 12in., Is 3d 100. Best
Selected, 12in., Is Od, Is 9d, 2s (Id, 3s, 5s Cd,
13s Od, 17s 6d per 100.
The CROWN Waterproof SILK LINE,
40yds. on Cork or in Coil, Is 6d each.
Waterproof Silk Twist Lines, 30 yards on Cork.
Nos. 30 to 24, 3d each ; 22, 4|d each ; 20, 5d
each ; 18, 5Jd each ; 16, 6d each ; 14, id
each ; 12, Sd each ; 10, 9d each ; 8, Is each ;
6, Is 3d each ; Fitted for Bream, 2d extra.
fiTheCrow’n°l
PISBIN URI
The Famous Waterproof English Flax Lines
On Cork—Extra Strong.
JO
60
The Renowned English Hemp Lines,
80
4-0
60
60
6®
Bream and Flathead Lines
3o
4 -0
Bream, 60. 50yds, 9d ea.;
100yds., Is 6d ea.
Flathead, 30. 50yds., Is
ea.; 100yds., 2s ea.
on Cork, Extra Extra
Strong.
Bream, 80. 50yds., 9d
ea.; 1 00yds., Is 3d ea.;
150yds., Is 9d ea.
Flathead, 40. 50yds., Is
ea.; ICOyds., Is 9d ea.;
150yds., 2s 6d ea.
Cur Special Sure Cr.tch
Lines, cn Keda —
Bream, 60. 25yds., 3d
ea.; 50yds., 6d ea. ;
100yds., Is ea.
Flathead, 30. 50vds.,
6d ea. ; 100yds., is
ea.; 150yds., Is Sd
each
Our Special SURE CATCH Schnapper Lines
Rolled on Cork or Ree .
100yds., 9 cord, Is 2d each ; 150yds., Is 9d each
100yds., 12 cord, Is 6d each ; 150yds., 2s 2d each
100yds., 15 cord, Is 6d each ; 150yds., 2s 2d each
100yds., 18 cord, Is 6d §ach ; 150yds., 2s 2d each
100yds., 27 cord, Is 9d each ; 150yds., 2s 6d each
100yds., 36 cord, 2s 6d each ; 150yds., 3s 6d each
200yds., 2s each
200yds., 2s lid each
200yds., 2s lid each
200yds., 2s lid each
200yds., 3s 3d each
200yds., 4s 6d each
CAMT-0-BEAT
vO' u
Remittance and Freight must accompany Order.
PT' THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
SEND EOR LISTS. "SWi
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


t
M.D., M. 8., 0.M., L.R.0.P., E., L.R.C.S., E.,
L.P.P.S.G., Gold Medallist, Formerly Medical
Superintendent and Visitin.tr Surgeon to four of
Australasia’s Leading Hospitals ; Government
Medical Officer; Med’oal Officer in charge of
troops, South African War.
THE VITAL QUESTION.
To whom shall I turn for a cure? After so many failures, whom can I trust? Who is the most thoroughly
Wrperienced physician and surgeon in Australasia ?
The above qualifications, gained from the World’s Most Famous Universities, should be an all-sufficient answer
to the question. Therefore, if you are ill, or suspect the existence of some latent disease, why not sit down
quietly at home, and drop a few lines in plain simple language to Dr. Martin, describing as thoroughly as possible
ine symptoms you experience. He will, on receiving. such an account, write you plainly and in homely, under-
standable language, telling you exactly what is the matter, and the remedy to obtain to effect a thorough cure.
Always bear in mind, Dr. Martin makes no charge for advice, and he has cured thousands who have been duped
and drugged by so-called specialists, by advice alone,
AND WITHOUT CHARGING A FEE.
Send for free copy of extracts from all the leading Auitralasian papers, reviewing Dr. Martin’s latest work,
entitled “ Mind Over Matter.” Dr. Martin is completing a six hundred page medical work, containing prescrip-
tions for the cure of all ailments, which he will forward free to those Who apply for same before Feb. 25th ; the
price after that date will be 255.
SEND FOR IT TO-DAY.
Remember, should you decide to correspond with Dr. Martin, you will be writing to one who will prove your
Wend, “ not your pocket’s friend.” Be you rich or poor, do not hesitate to write to the Doctor, who will give
jo ur case careful personal attention. Address All Communications—
DR. MARTIN,
Hours of Consultation, 10 to 2 and 7 to 9 daily.
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
, WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Sngines Ci IVafSi" TuLa Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, Gecrge St., Sydney.
SORE
CARTRID GE
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual-
tiea. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLED.
IN EVER FAILC.
Ask your Chenvst for the Little Book:
“HOW TO Pi ESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Carter's
Be Sure they are
I MISHIT HERR RASSMUSSEN,
B S NsS? W Bfl ■ - ■■—"wb*» ■ «**» -««ffW VP 1 H^MBMMwy
—— SPECIALIST
l?| PRIVATE, NERVOUS, SKIN AND BLOOD DISEASES, &c.. &.C.,
r jL' j-» O;V 4. c> ~ £i toy Post - 1, Speciality, iidvice '**o o«
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Celebrated Alfalino Herbal Remedies.
ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Arc a guaranteed cure for Nervous Weakness, Varicocele, Loss of Vigor, Melancholia,
O&spondency, Spots Before the Eyes, Loss of Memory, Spinal Weakness, Confused Brain,
Bashfulness and Lost Vitality. Makes Premature Weak Men Strong and Healthy
ffoxes, 6/« and 12/*. Ordinary Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Oou&'e Co rse, 43/6. Write for Circulars.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood Diseases, Skin Complaints, Gravel, Stricture, Affections of the
Bladder Urinary Passage, and all Chronic Constitutional Blood and Skin Diseases, no mat-
te? how caused or of how long standing. They are Purely Vegetable, and contain no Mercury.
Boxes 6/, Course 23/6. Write for circulars.
AI.FALINE UNIVERSAL, PILLS cure Anaemia and Internal Female Complaints, Boxes 6/-
Cteurse 23/6; Rheumatic Pills, 6/; Pile Powders, 6/; Fat-Reducing Powders, 6/; Liver Pills, 1/.
HEAD OFFICE: 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Afloat his BRANCHES : 309 Queen St., Brisbane; IS Potency St., Adelaide; 91 Lamhlon Quay, Wellington, N.Z.;
Perth, W.A.. 481 Hry St. and 111 Hannan St.. Kalgoorlie. mans perea rasmussch.
the
t
THE
1
(7J_ ENTLF.MKf>.- Thi s razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow
like a hell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years,
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH KAZOR FOlt TWO YEARS.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 78. 6d.
“ RAZCLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
ground, rings
exact kind of
can testify to
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather 218»
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 1Es. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
Plmsp add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
8ole Agents: CRAIG &. AITKEIM, 654 George-si., Sydney.
Prick
D’ye Play the Accordeon ?
ţ
HEIMBGRFF BROS.
When it’s properly played, and when it’s a good Aocordeon
•-one of these—it will yield good music.
We can open your eyes with our celebrated
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze ree ls. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
E>iyi fvfv _£* -J Posted to any Address
*■ • in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality (as per ill 'Stration), with 3 sets of Reeds and
Organ Stop, £1 ss. Other Accordeons, 7/6 to 63/-
Send •for Catalogue 3.
For GRAMOPHONE see our advertisement on another page.
Importers of Pianos, Watohes, & Jewellery,
210 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
%
J / iC\
SO
c*
1
V
m
r.
a
EVER! FACE SHOWS
STRENGTH OR WEAKNESS.
If weakness, then by its haggard and drawn appearance it tells
that there must be s 'thing undermining the health-—that
there is a Loss of Vigor and of Vital Nerve Force, that the animal
Electricity in the System is gradually but surely wasting away.
You cannot help noting your changed appearance almost each
week—the dull eyes, the sunken cheeks and careworn expression
betoken your health is fading ; you begin to lose all energy, and
with the least exertion you feel tired and languid. This constant
drain from the system must le checked, otherwise more serious
disorders must ensue from your Weak and Wasted condition,
and life-long misery will be yours.
Or. Mc[aHghlin’s Electric Belt
is a positive and certain cure for Weak and Wasted Men and
Women. Eminent Scientists have proven its value. We have
proven it by the thousands of cured cases after every other known
method had failed. To-day we can show you that our Belt has
given back Health and Happiness to over 50,000 men and women.
Nervo=Vital Loss of Power.
BYRON BAY, N.S.W.
Gentlemen,—l cannot speak too highly of your Belt. It has
worked wonders with me. I never felt better in my life than I do
now, thanks to you. The pains in my back have left me
altogether, and I feel the benefit of it in every way.
Yours truly, BERT HORSEY.
Electricity gives new life to every Weak Organ of the body.
If you have RHEUMATISM, WEAK BACK, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
PAINS or ACHES OF THE JOINTS, LIMBS or BODY, INDIGES-
TION, CONSTIPA TION, KIDNEYS or LIVER TROUBLE, VARICO-
CELE, RUPTURE, etc., you can get speedy and permanent
relief. It never fails to cure because it is a natural remedy.
Kidney and Liver Troubles.
WAIHUKU, N.Z.
Dear Sirs, —I have been wearing- one of your famous Electric
Belts now for some time, and have much pleasure in telling you
that it has restored me to health again. It has done me more
good than all the doctor’s medicine I have taken. I will recom-
mend it to anyone who is suffering the way I did. I beg to
remain, Yours very truly, ' W. PASCOE.
We have thousands of Testimonials from all parts of
Australasia, copies of which will be forwarded on applica-
tion. They clearly prove the great value of Electricity.
232* i
r
d
C.V*
W
',-■ i
JSS^S
To convince you of the great value
of Electricity and the wonderful
cures it is making, we will send you
FREE and POSTAGE PAID on
receipt of the attached Coupon, our
Illustrated Book dealing entirely
with the subject, in addition to our
Testimonial Book giving the names
of many who have been cured. They
absolutely cost you nothing. Write
for them to-day.
Tf vou cannot call, write us and we will advise you FREE in
your own home by means of our SPECIAL DIAGNOSIS CHART,
no matter what your ailment may be.
the dr. McLaughlin go.
WOW. Market St.
SYDNEY.
N.Z. Office—s 4 Willis Street, Wellington.
Post this Coupon for Free Book, We want you to read it.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
Dear Sirs,—On receipt
Kindly send by return post.
of this Coupon please send me your Boole as advertised above.
Name
Address
William Charles Crawford.


A little vanity is a good thing.
Every woman should try, at all times,
to look her very best. But it certainly
must be discouraging to have your
mirror tell you that your hair is gray
when you are only thirty or fifty 1
Gray hair adds twenty years to the
age. Why not look as young as you
are, or even younger ?
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Always restores color to gray hair,
always. Brings back all the deep,
rich, beautiful color of early youth.
Perhaps the color of your hair suits,
but you are losing the hair itself. You
are threatened with thin hair, rough
hair, scraggly hair. Your hair seems
weak, not well nourished. Then give
it Ayer’s Hair Vigor, a true hair-
food. It stops falling hair, makes
the hair grow, and keeps it soft and
silky.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co.. Lowell. Mass., U.S.A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
11l
MBS"
DAY
For Blous< s,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children's
Frocks, &C.
eco;;gm:al
BECUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella* has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
ť
j THE FAMILY BOOT BILL
[ IS GREATLY REDUCED
BY USING
WoodNilie
[ REVOLVING
| HEEL PAD,
S which provide you with an automatically
revolving rubber heel that will never wear
down at the sides, but always give you a
I straight, firm tread that enables you to walk
long distances without fatigue.
PREVENTS NERVE JAR
KEEPS BOOTS IN SHAPE*
Last three times as long as the ordinary heel
YOU CAN FIX THEM YOURSELF.
Sold by every up-to-date Boot and Shoe
Dealer and General Storekeeper.
CAUTION !
SEE THB NAME “ WOOD-MILNE * ON
| EVERY PAD.
I Sole Agents for Australasia:
| D. & W. MURRAY, LTD.
* Adelaide, South Australia.
L Perth, Western Australia.
[ Kalgoorlie, Western Australia.
I Melbourne, Victoria.
I Launceston, Tasmania,
Brisbane, Queensland,
Townsville, Queensland.
( Broken Hill, New South Wales.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd; Posted, Bd,
BONN I PI CTO NS
IRISH MOSS
Will Sfop a Cough quicker
than any other art/c/e /or the purpose, one smalt
dose, acts t/ke a charm in a/tay/nj? the irritation,
if /s admirah/y adapted /or chi/dren as wet/ a s
tdu/rs.ondto Cure a Cold no better
preparation can he used, many cases of chronic dronchr
'his hare been asotuhety cured by the use of the /n/sn moss pub-
i/c speakers <$ s/ngers throughout the count/y use ittargety to
~ Sfrenghfen the Voice and many
we If known &ctorJ>and vocat/sts hai/e hest/f/ed to the iron-
-derfui propert/es of Boningtons /n/srt moss as a ro/ce
restoref/re, to those who are at&tt weak chested /A
/s at once recommended to
Build up fhe Lungs mak/rrg
them hea/thy and strong, an effect?re remedy for a//
wasting c'/s eases, and consumption in /is earty stages
can he ahso/utety eradicated by its use.
Sold Everywhere
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
FSMNEY, ISLES & CO.
You can get everything ybu requ're at tho BIG BLOCK in MEN’S WEARABLES.
For the convenience of our Country Friends we are quoting the 'Following
Lines, POST FREE.
Ready-to- Wear Black Alpaca Sac Coats
sizes 3toB, at 13s each. Vests to match at 6s each,
post free.
Ready-to- Wear Striped Brilliant Coats,
sizes 3toB, at 12s each. Vests to match, 5s 6d each.
Black Clerical Coats, sizes 3 to 8, at 20s 6d
each, post free.
Celluloid Collars, in all leading- shapes, at 4s 9d
the half-dozen, post free.
Khaki Trousers, Fast Dye, Stockman’s ent, sizes
3 to 7, at 8s 3d, post free.
The Stockman Shirt, a great station line, white
ground, neat stripes, strong and dependable, with
collar and pocket, 24s 6d the half-dozen, post free.
White Silk Tennis Shirt, with collar and
pocket, splendid value, at 10s, 11s, 12s each, post free.
White Mat Tennis Shirt, with collar and
pocket, a grand wearing shirt, 3 for 8s 6d, post free.
Men’s Lamington Felt Hats, with cut edge,
in Pawns, Greys, Slates and Browns, at 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
9s (id, 10s_jjd, 12s 6d, post free.
Men’s Black Cashmere Haif-Hose, Fast
Dye, dependable goods, at 6s 6d the half-dozen,
post free.
Compare our values in Men’s Wearables with anything' offering elsewhere.
You will then prove that you can save money by spending it at
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Tho Big Black, BRISBANE.
THERE IS A DAINTINESS
about the design of these
Brooches you won’t find
elsewhere.
And the Prices are lower.
I HAVE
THOUSANDS
OF OTHERS
TO SHOW
WHEN YOU
CALL.
A Gift, solid gold Dove Broocb,
real Pearl Spray, 15s.
SEND
FOR
MY
CATALOGUE.
I wish to call } T our special attention to this Brooch,
the quality and finish is of the best, the price exceptionally
low ; three inches long, set with soft lustrous pearls, the
effect is very pleasing. 9ct. Gold, 35s ; 15ct. 60s-
tin SMITH THE. LEADIHG JEWELLER
OUEIENS' (NEARBRIDGt)
BRISBANE
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Violin.
O beautiful, slender, sensate thing
In the Master's hand —-
Awakel Awake!
My heart must throb with each throbbing string
And yearn till it break—
Till it break for yearning—or understand ;
Must thrill with a pain that .is ecstasy
Seeking, for ever baffled, the key
To interpret each subtle symphony.
For oh ! a Spirit within the strings
Wakes and weeps at the Master’s will.
It has tears and laughter—it sighs and sings—
It wails or whispers “Be still! Be still ! ”
And it sobs unutterable things ;
Low and tender, or sweet and shrill,
Or sad as a bird with broken wings ;
And the dulcet, dreamy melodies flow
Like moonlight falling on rippling seas,
Or the tremulous music, soft and slow,
Of the south wind in the blossoming trees,
In dying cadences, hushed and low.
What soul of woman emancipate,
A thrall for an age of penance and pain,
Would make her sorrows articulate
With a sound of tears like the drip of rain,
And a storm of sobs on the passionate •chords—
Of sobs and of sighs that can find no wards,
That can only murmur and moan and shriek ?
Speak ! Ah speak !
Or the heart must break with the will to know
The theme of thy wrongs and thy wordless woe
That rises for ever. Ah God t Speak ! Speak !
What poet a-dying before his time,
His theme unuttered, his songs unsung,
Breathed into thy void his soul sublime,
Bequeathed thee the gift of liis silver tongue ;
His tears and his laughter exquisite?
O heart !to follow and fathom it— •
The broken, beautiful, wild refrain ’
Soaring again
To heights of rapture, or making moan
In a troubled and tender monotone,
All love and joy, all passion and pain.
What revellers burst from some merry hell,
Wanton and wayward, a laughing throng,
That reel in a quivering tarantelle,
Have edged the strings with shrill mirth and
song?
Have quickened the chords to gusty glee—
As fleet as the feet of the dancers ilee,
With loose lips laughing and eyes a-shine,
And crowned with vine ;
With wild locks tossing and hands flung high,
And bosoms heaving and feet that fly ;
All mad with music and mirth and wine ?
What martial spirit, re-animated
From the dust of forgotten ages, came—
On its lip 3 a battle-cry of the dead,
And seized thee and-swept thee like a flam e ?
A storm of music that shook the strings,
From a soul a-fire with remembered things,
Of the screaming bugles, high and shrill,
Crying “ Kill! Kill ! Kill ! ”
And the roll and beat of the Deathless Drum,
The ranks that waver, t'te hosts that come,
And the faces, savage and stern and still ?
0 ! beautiful, slender, sensate thing
In the Master's hand —
Be still! Be still !
The wanton sweetness in every string,
The quiver and thrill —
I hear, but I may not understand.
M.L.
MAUD PEACOCKE.
Visions of the Rain.
Last night I lay awake and heard the rain—
In that dark hour before'the break of day,
When life burns low —when phantom fingers play
A sad, soft tune upon the window-pane.
The moon was like that sweet drowned virgin face
That floated down the Tiber’s current slow
When Nero reigned, long centuries ago,
All dim with grief, yet glorious with grace.
The wind went moaning through the trees below,
And like a lost child cried, then wildly laughed ;
The grateful lily in the garden quaffed
The wine of Heaven from her cup of snow.
Yea, far away, beyond the Mountains Blue,
On many an ample field, on many a plain,
Made glad by the rich succour of the rain,
The harvest, like the gourd of Jonah, grew.
But I was gazing on another sight;
I saw the gaslit silent streets that shone
Like Hell’s sad streets by Heaven’s tears rained
upon,
When God was merciful on Calvary’s night.
And, at lane-corners where the gaslight gleamed,
I saw wan faces flushed with haggard mirth—
Alas ! poor devils they had found on Earth
A Hell more terrible than monks have dreamed.
And then the scene was changed, and glasses rang
At midnight in a little tavern room
Where no man dared to think about the tomb,
While Bunster spun his yarns and Morgan sang.
Then we went forth a merry caravan—
And down a dismal deluge came n:n .in,
And, lurking in an archway from the rain,
We knew what caves meant to the Primal Man.
Bunster and Morgan and the rest are gone.
Upon their graves, with this good rain, I ween
Tho grass is springing fresh and lush and green.
I pulled the blind down, and the rain rain d on.
N.S.W,
CRELVE ROE.


WILD WITH ECZEMA
And Other Itching, Burning,
Scaly Eruptions with
Loss of Hair.
Speedy Cure Treatment.
Bathe the affected parts with Hot Water and Cuticura Soap, to
Cleanse the surface of crusts and scales, and soften the thickened
cuticle. Dry, without hard rubbing, and apply Cuticura Ointment
freely, to allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, and lastly take Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A single set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, burning, scaly, pimply humours, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, and chafings, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
The agonizing itching and burning of the skin, as in eczema; the fright-
ful scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair and crusting of the-scalp, as in
scalledhead; the facial disfigurement, as in pimples and ringworm; the
awful suffering of infants and the anxiety of worn-out parents, a 3 in milk
crust, tetter, and salt rheum, all demand a remedy of almost superhuman
virtues to successfully cope with them. Such are the Cuticura remedies,
the purest, sweetest, most speedy and economical curalives for the skin,
scalp, and blood ever compounded. Mothers are their warmest friends.
Millionsof Women Use Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, aud soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes and chafings, in the form of baths for
annoying irritations and inflammations of women, or too free or offensive
perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves, as well as
for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
niITIPIIDR DECfIIWEMT Dll 1C
(ill I IlllssM fILOUIi Oa § I ILLv'
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute for the cele-
brated liquid Cuticura Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers aud humour
cures. Put up in screw cap pocket vials, containing GO doses.
Cuticura Remedies are pold throughout the world. Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.. Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue tie la Puix, Paris. Potter Drug and Ciiem.
LU
UJ
oc
ŧ
t
NO MONEY
wanted”
GIVEN AWAY
A Beautiful Ladies’ or Gentleman’s Watch and Chain,
Given Absolutely Free, to all who will assist us in introdi c-
ing Oranglne Nectar Cordial, the most delicious and healthful
cf Summer beverages—“ one single 6d. package makes 20 Glasses.”
Simply send us your Name and Address on a post card, and we will
send you 20 Packages of our Nectar Cordial to sell for us, if you can. at
6d. per packet. When sold, return our money, ros., and we will
send you the Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch and Chain. Any
energetic person can sell the Cordial in an hour or so, and receive for
this service, one of the handsomest Free Prizes ever offered by any
responsible House. Send at once, before others get in the field ahead of you. Remember,
we give both Watch and Chain—Ladies’ or Gent.’s—for selling only 20 packages at 6d. each.
No money required. We take all risks Goods returnable if not sold. This is a
business proposition by a house of high commercial standing. Reference —Any Trades’ Protec-
tion Society. HOME SPECIALTY CO., Dept. AA 352 George St,. Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd..
SYDNE 'YT,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by thi3 Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
I their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
ţ
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’S
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Goui
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy
ť
UNTIL CURED.
V
V
m
'""JlWIIIIillllUtW""*
DR. AUSTIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
Is sold on this Basis to Men and
Women everywhere : Not to he
paid for until the Cure is Complete.
The Dr. Austin Electric Belt is the only remedy in the
world which can be sold on such a plan. It is the only
never-failing cure for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak Back
and Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder and Stomach
Troubles; in fact, all Chronic Diseases of Men and
Women. It cures after all other remedies have failed.
Why? Because it restores nerve life, animal vitality,
warmth and vigor to all the weakened parts.
Drugs only Stimulate, Dr. Austin’s
Electric Belt gives Lasting Strength
Its Cures are Permanent.
ZF.-iSV.-3r WI3ZE3ST OTXUFt-E53Z>.
You pay ouiv when cured, if you can offer reasonable security. Failure to cure costs you nothing'. The
Dr. Austin B' it i ■ warranted on a bond of iiiOOO to give a stronger current, last longer, and to cure quicker
than any other electric body appliance made. We make no charge for advice, written or personal.
Free Sodk,
Wiifce for our Beaucifullv-lllustrated Medical Book and Letters from Cured Patients,
sent ( s r al r, d' FRFK WHITE TOP \Y, and you will b:> sxfsficd with the result.
The Dr, Austin Improved Electric Bet Co., Deptm.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B. —New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving' Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
5>T
THE
A
#
/
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy pf digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles heed be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made iih a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively'recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON, and 7, Spring St., SYDNEY.
WILL
ŧ
HOOK OF NATURE and IL-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by Or. Faulkner, illustrated
with over fiO engravings,new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Datk, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donklly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Marta
Monk, is Od How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare hook by lie Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is fid each.
Ventriloquism Made Ea3Y, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks' Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, 3s ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, sd.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190 illus.,
Is. 3d. Motor Car Construction —Steam, Petrol,
Electric & Petrol-Electric, 800 illus., 255, postage 2s 6d
MiCFADjiEN’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
of Superb Manhood. ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
TAMERoS.andmany others, all in cheap edition. Bride
oftSe First Xioiir, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
2 . Mow to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
‘Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women's Secrets,
Is 3d. Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, . Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor. Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Engineer's Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas en-
gines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make (Jr, illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. SArnio,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to WOMEN, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford's
MidwWe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3<6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s.(Paradise. Is 6d. Stolen Sweets, Is 6d.
Blacksmith's,'Work, is 3d. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography for Amateurs, 6d, Is, and Is 3d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is 3d. Latest Song
Books, 3d, 6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is, 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
ANu ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2; Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3;
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET,
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE. —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUCHi.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Tho Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdicstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all {
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists (
in the Australian Colonies. ,
T ruman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys *
all Parasites of Head or Body. «
soi.d in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d. ,
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstrk & Truman, ,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
i t
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
-I'he Triumph of Modem Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin -There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs—it is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
i
for my new book ( illustrated ) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S.
i Eng.
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE. |
FREE
I II In iisSßzsi
by post, a per^ict
HOME CURE by th it justly-
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN aii.'l
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CUEI'.
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TRODbLEf .
Debility, and their sermu uonsequences. A HOM.J
CURE pure and simple 'i al who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, QastSereagh St.,
SYDNEY


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
w ” Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
ROTHJERHAIYIS
ENGLISH WATCHES.
Speciality :—
MODELE DE LUXE WATCHES
WITH RATE CERTIFICATE.
m
JOLD BY ALL
* Jewellers.
IILUSTRfcTraCffiU.CGUE3
WHOCANSHOW-
%
POT*
t
ţ
ť
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPYNE.
Oantion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKOMOHITIS,
. DlAKltHttiA, ijeara ou
the Government Stamp the uaina
of the Inventor
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28 1896, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodynh. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
DrunkennesQ
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
ONE OP MANY:
Ravensthorpe , W.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has efi'ected
a cure. I have no desire I'or drink, in fad have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully. RG.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FRFE.
Adtfress •
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Free to IViera.
%A#RITE to me anti I will forward you my dentine
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for the asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
Vanish like magic and you will be filled with energy
3trength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mons ARMAhi Gourattd. 32 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
ASTHMA CU
at home "TO STAY CURED. Causes removed.
Health restored. Attacks never return. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever Patients in
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, and
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. Write for
Book 32'C, FREE, postpaid. Dr. P. Harold Hayes’
Asthmatic Institute, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
ŧ
NO CURE. NO PAY.
It will Cost you NOTHING to Try Our
IMPROVED and PATENTED ELECTRIC
BELTS for NERVOUS and other DISEASES.
Send for one AT ONCE, and PAY for it
within three months after you are SATIS-
FIED your CURE IS PERMANENT.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE GO,,
63H ELIZABETH-ST., SYDNEY.
(Kegd.) the Sure, Absolute
and Permanent Cure for
Rheumatism, Sprains, Back-
ache, Lumbago, Cramp, Face-
ache, Stiffness, Neuralgia,
Bruises, Sciatica, Gout, Headache and all Muscular Pains,
Pleurisy, Coughs and Colds. Price, 3s. 6d. small bottle ;
ss. 6d. large bottle. Posted to any address 4d. extra
THE SOLAR AGENCY ,
362 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“VIVO”
t
.SPM
SUSE
Clean*** the System In three week*
tram the dreadful Cur** of
Alcoholism.
NO RESTRAINT. MO LOSS Of
WORK. j
fIP EXPENSIVE INSTITUTE
TREATMENT,
Booklet, ffttfi,
A» Qj J>Uf%VpEN| Auburn, Metboum#.
A SIMPLE HOME REMEDY.
u
' H
l®#rjw!*s§
■MS
m
K
JAMES JACKSON, Proprietor,
Late Western Australia and Queensland.
I //S/TORS
TO SYDNEY.
% Empire Hotel
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the
highest and best position of
Sydney, close to the Botanical
Gardens, Government House, Cir-
cular Quay (the landing place of all
large Ocean Mail Steamers), near
principal Clubs, Theatres, ard
within two minutes’ walk of G.ICO.
It is most elegantly furnished
throughout; Sanitary Arrangements
are of the very latest. Electricity
lighted throughout, and elevators
to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies’ Drawing Rooms
and Library, &c.
TARIFF-
BACK ROOMS - -
from £2 2s Weekly.
FRONT ROOMS - -
from £3 3s Weekly.
FREE 2
r/s
mm
AM EXTRAORDINARY FREE OFFER.
In order to introduce our Catalogue into every
home, we have decided to absolutely give away i,ooo
of our famous Gold-filled and Silver Watches (Ladies’
and Gentlemen’s). Our business is Mail Orders. We
want your orders and desire you to send for our Cata-
logues and our liberal offer, which we will post to
you.
Send postal-note for 4s. 6d. for one of our Lady
or Gent’s. Trial Order Parcels, containing 6 articles
of Jewellery, Brooches, Links, &<:., and we send you
with the parcel our above liberal offer.
Send at once, as this offer will he withdrawn when we have distributed sufficient Watches
to advertise our goods. Address — DSPT. E.,
THE GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL C 0«, Pitt Street) Sydney) N.S.W.
F arrow’s
a
The Best British-Made Mustard
DIRECT FROM THE GROWERS.
The Pungent snap and refined flavour of this
Mustard are unequalled. There is none like it.
It makes meat taste as good again, and gives
zest and savour to the food.
THE FINEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY.
J. FARROW & CO., PETERBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
Cellular
Underwear,
Shirts,
Pyjamas, &c.
Artel
Ladies’
Underwear
of every description.
Samples, Pamphlets and Prior
Lists, post free, from
5233
ift ft
m
SK
an
8!«
s.:c
m
i
I
m
H
fig
fid
mm
m
*25
Nhml
m
•J
SOLE AGENTS,
75 King-street, Sydney.
ţ
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
‘FRUST
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
B
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S • FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
PrtpamJ only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., 4 FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere .
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
QspiElarine
Posted (under covet
to any part of Austra-.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6cl.
SOLIS AQKSTS.
The Result.
CRAIG A. AITKEIV. N.S.W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 GEORGS STREET, SYD.ISY.
A NOVEL PRESENT.,
fXN receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward t.
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Set. Cold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
ei ther Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In lfict. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole's
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
Himself Cured.
in EAR SIR,—I have been cured of Weak ness and
*■ Debility, by a simple and inexpensive remedy, and
will be pleased to send the means o feure to all sufferers.
I do this entirely out of gratitude, and make no charge
whatever. Send addressed envelope to
Mr. ROBERT E. PARKHURST,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria.
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
|Completely overcome Deafness
Sand Head Noises, no matter of
show long standing'. Arethesame
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
ť
NO CURE. NO PAY.
It will Cost you NOTHING to Try Our
IMPROVED and PATENTED ELECTRIC)
BELTS for NERVOUS and other DISEASES.
Send for one AT ONCE, and PAY for it
within three months after you are SATIS-
FIED your CURE is PERMANENT.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
A f^in
the
Remed
7/
DRAW THE . .
RHEUMATISM
out of your body by wearing a “Magic Indian
Lithic Ring,” a sun risingly simple, yet effective.
Remedy which has proved its worth all the wo Id
over. The uric salts are absolutely drawn from the
system and deposited inside the Ring without pain.
IN HEAVY ROLLED GOLD,
5/-, 7/6> & 10/6 Post Free. Send Size.
Should be worn by every sufferer of Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Toothache, &e., on the left hand,
like ordinary ring.
HICKMAN & SON, Ltd.,
BRIDGWATER, England. J
MEMI
Why Remain Bald ?
V.
No matter if you
have been bald for 20
years, I will guaran-
tee that my now
FAMOUS
HAIR
TONIC,
CAPILLA
will produce Strong, Healthy Hair in
abundance, provided you still have a
‘‘ slight down ” on the scalp for it to work
on. Thousands of men—aye, and women,
too —have testified to its wonderful Hair-
growing qualities. I shall be pleased to
forward copies of these Testimoni"Js
together with my “Treatise on tnc
Hair,” Free.
Capilla Hair Tonic
is now on sale throughout the Common-
wealth at all Chemists and Stores.
2/6 a Bottle. N z 3 6 riCot
FULL COURSE, 6 Bottles, posted unr'er
ccver direct fcr 17,2; lnler-Sa;e, 18,2.
W. Oliver Richards,
IC4 P.tt St., Sydney, K.S.W.


EENNESSY’S
Three Star
BRAND?
Messrs. Hennessy guarantee all their Brandies to be GENUINE GRAPE, and distilled from Wine 01 y.
ŧ
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everytiiikg.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Melbourne Branch—
\V. WOOLLEY and SON,
Equitable Building.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and 00.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
Of course you have System
in vour office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to yo\i that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Sts., SYDNEY
Has just been re furnished and renovated throughout in the most_up-.to-d.ite style, and
close attention to the comfort of its guests makes it an easy first m the public s esteem.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2 30; DINNER, 6.30 till 7.30
Special Feature RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
SYDNEY.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-si., South Melbourne,
telephone No. IOhS «^ r aTERER.
Jir. Sltinner has a verv extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TAIH.K FUItNISIIINOS, l>y
far the largest and most complete' in this
colonies; and can with confidence guirantee
sarsfaction in all lmsiness entrusted to him.
PuLiic and
Private Balls
Cut prod for
on Most
, Reasonable
* Terms.
Banquets an)
Dinner Parti 99
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCIN3Fi.OJ.Ij
ot various sizes supplied.
u
ACETYLENE GAS
Button-hole & Pocket Lames
Nickel plated, posted free,
To Burn 1 hour, 1/9 ; To Burn 2 hours,
2 6 ; To Burn 3 hours, 3/6.
Send for Catalogues on House Instal-
lations.
BRAHDT BROS., Acetylene Gas Engi.
neers, 236 Pitt St., SYDNEY; also
197 & 422 Emzabetii St., MELBOURNE.
JOUR CIGARETTE
is just as important a thing for choosing as your dinner, and if you smoke anything offered you,
instead of selecting the best, so ought you to eat everything set before you, without grumbling.
Your digestive organs require suitable food and your nerves require soothing not stimulating
to put it mildly, you want
CAMEO CIGARETTES
and you know it.
THE KEY TO THE
ROOFING
——III j 11l I II
QUESTION
m
The KEY to the success of
RUBEROID ROOFING is MERIT.
Thirteen years of service under
conditions which no other roofing
will stand have established the
reputation of
RUBEROID ROOFING.
• , -J
Wholesale Agents :
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 2G.—No. 1301.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1905.
Price Gd.
STRANGLING HIM IN BIS CRADLE.—THE FOLLY OF THE STRIKERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australi" /or the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS]
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... _£f 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 013 0
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiie Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to the Editor.
Special Notice.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of th is number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A Hides, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A nstralian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A umteur.v in Illnclc nn<l White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted . for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Capetown;
Messrs. It. A. Thompson tfc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, Durban, Natal;
H. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia ; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1905.
TWO STRIKES.
The New Year opened for New South Wales
laden with industrial misfortunes. To the damage
caused by hot winds and bush fires was added a
paralysis of the two most important primary in-
dustries—those dealing with wool and coal —by
rash and foolish strikes. The “ wheelers ” in the
Newcastle district —lads and young men employed
in wheeling the trucks in the coal pits—dissatisfied
with a reduction of \fages, left their work, in spite
of the fact that the Industrial Arbitration Court
was hastening to judge their cause, with the power
to restore the old wage rate and the inclination to so
act if justice demanded. This folly on the part of
the wheelers had the effect of throwing idle the
majority of the coal pits in the Newcastle district,
though the wheelers themselves form but a small
minority of the workers concerned. The complex
processes of modern industrialism are so inter-
related that the failure of one small department
involves sometimes the stoppage of a great enter-
prise. In the Newcastle district, before this, a pit
has been closed down and great suffering caused
by the pit-boys—lads employed to sharpen the
picks and do other such small jobs—going on
strike ; and there is a legend of a manager, enraged
by the idea of such a boys’ strike stopping his col-
liery, driving the youngsters to their work with a
birch, they just fresh from school submitting
from a sense of custom to this summary method of
breaking a strike. The wheelers, who have caused
the present trouble, are more responsible than the
pit-boys ; a proportion of them are adults ; all are,
so to speak, apprentices to the mining trade. But
they have nothing like the feeling of responsi-
bility which the miner and the trades-unionist
has, and the rashness of youth has led them to a
strike which may have far-reaching political, as
well as industrial, consequences. The second
strike, which paralysed the wool trade, was that
of the members of the Woolbuyers’ Association—a
very closely-organised trades-union which is so
strong that it is never troubled by “black-
leg ” competition, and which uses its giant
strength so tyrannously that it declares a
strike on the smallest provocation. Because
of the new Commonwealth Shipping Act the
shipping co.’s have alleged a necessity to
raise freight rates by the imposition of a special
“primage” charge on all shipments. The
necessity is more imaginary than real. For years
past the shipping co.’s have, by little and little,
been victimising consignors by contracting them-
selves out of their liabilities as carriers. Things
have come to such a pass that one case is cited
when a deck cargo of fruit was broached on voyage,
looted by officers, crew, and passengers, and the
shipping co. disowned ail responsibility, advancing
its bill of lading as a defence. The new Common-
wealth legislation had no other purpose or effect
than to bring the shipping firms back to the control
of the common law as carriers. Seemingly out of
mere spitefulness, the co.’s responded with the new
primage duty, just as that big monopoly, the Aus-
tralian Gas Co., when it was made liable to muni-
cipal rating, replied with a big increase in the price
for lighting the municipal streets. Against pay-
ment of this primage on wool cargoes the wool-
buyers went on strike. They decided to consign
no more wool and to buy no more wool until the
imposition was abandoned. As a result, the wool-
export industry was stopped. Vessels, stevedores,
carriers, wharf-laborers were kept idle, and an
economic waste involved, not so great certainly as
in the case of the coal trouble, but still consider-
able. With those two strikes the New Year
opened.
* • * *
It is effective proof of the oneness of human
nature, the “fidelity to type” of man, whatever
his occupation or education, that two such widely
separated classes as the wheelers of Newcastle and
the woolbuyers of Sydney should have, under the
same stimulus, acted in precisely the same way.
Each had a grievance. In both cases there was a
means of redress by reason and argument. But
both elected to use the same means of violence and
disorder. The pit lads, but little educated, rough
diamonds when diamonds at all, and the travelled,
urbane wool-buyers showed themselves influenced
by the same passions, the same impatience, the
same crude love of a row, the same selfish disre-
gard for the rights of others. It mattered as little
to the wheeler in Newcastle that his grudge
against the coal-owner was being mostly worked
off against the miner, the sailor, the coal-con-
sumer and their families, as to the wool-buyer
that his strike against the ship-owner was keeping
thousands of innocent workmen idle, and was
tending to close down mills and generally disturb
a world-wide industry. The average wheeler
lives in a hut or cottage, has had no school but the
primary State one, and that availed of for the
shortest possible time. The average wool-buyer
lives at a club, a fashionable hotel, or an elegant
suburban villa, has had the advantages of
liberal education, and knows the cultivat-
ing benefits of travel. But beneath the skin —
perhaps, indeed, no farther than beneath the
clothes —wheeler and wool-buyer show, under
exasperation, exactly the same lack of the civilised
feeling; they are alike stupid, unreasonable, and
careless of the community rights when they
imagine their interests to be touched. If there is
any choice between the two sets of strikers, the
wheelers must have the advantage of it, for their
grievance was greater. A material reduction of
wages is a galling thing when wages are already so
low as to be below the subsistence point if the
wheeler, as is often the case, has listened to the
exordium of the Birth-rate Commission and mar-
ried young. The wool-buyer had to face no re-
duction of his fat income; at the worst the action
of the shipping companies only involved him in the
necessity of re-casting his prices and re-adjusting
his calculations. Admitted that the wool-buyer had
a vexation to complain of, still it was not so great as
that thrust home to the wheeler. And the wool-
man’s superior education, his more mature age,
his greater experience should have restrained him
from a violent and extreme step. But “woolie”
and “ coalie ” both acted alike, careless absolutely
of the effect of their action on others.
• • • •
This sameness of action was not matched, how-
ever, by a sameness of consequence. As soon as
the wheeler went on strike, the daily press, the
“ respectable classes,” and all the other people to
whom the community is taught to look for light
and leading, savagely denounced him for his
folly, his wickedness, his reckless disregard of
consequences. The denunciation was, of course,
justified, though not the measure of it. There is no
excuse for the wheelers rushing into a strike when
a court of arbitration was open to them. But for
the wool-buyer, the wealthy, influential wool-
buyer who ought to know better, there has been
no word of anger, only a gentle murmur of expos-
tulation. He illustrated “the tyranny of trades-
unionism ” in its most extreme form by absolutely
shutting up a business because of some slight
grievance, and, instead of meeting angry denun-
ciation, he has been coaxingly urged like a good
fellow to think it over again, and show himself
the awfully jolly chap that he is by giving way
and going back to work, and letting the wheels of
industry go round again. The Government en-
trusted with the administration of the law
has, too, shown its capacity for making
differences. Action has been taken to fine
or imprison the contumacious strikers of the
coal pit, but there is not a whisper of a warrant
against any man of the wool pit. Yet one is
almost as much within the shadow of the law as
the other. To match the Arbitration Law, under
which the coal-man may be punished, there is
an old Act before this invoked in Aus-
tralia against trade-unionists of a humbler
type—which might be directed against the wool-
men for combining to act in restraint of trade.
But it seems to be quite freely accepted as a prin-
ciple that a gentle exhortation is the proper thing
for the rich, well-dressed offender, and gaol for
the miscreant in blucher boots.
THE LACK OF AN EFFECTIVE SAVAGE.
In spite of the moderate degree of interest to
which the selection of a cricket Eleven arouses
him, the Australian collectively must be convicted
of a don’t-care attitude on most vital points. Indi-
vidually the Australian does not “ lean up against
a post ” —despite all that may be said to the con-
trary. He is, to a very marked extent, a “ hustler.”
As a mechanic or a laborer his output is far greater
than that of his -British confrere; even in
fast-living America he holds his own, whilst
in S’Africa, where popular prejudice links
instinctively “Australian” and “criminal,” those
of our citizens who have won to employment in
the face of prejudice are recognised as the best of
workers surpassing Afrikander, Britisher, or
Yankee. Nor does the Australian, individually,
withhold full meed of admiration from energy in
any form ; indeed, he acclaims it furiously—in
politics, in sport, in every department of effort.
John Norton, of the N.S.W. Parliament, for
example, is something of a deity to a large class,
and nothing that John Norton can do will
outweigh with them the fact that he is a
meaty man, full of energy and fire. For the
same reason, Conroy, of the Federal Parlia-
ment, is looked upon with fondness by many a
back-country man and city Radical. That
Conroy votes on the Tory side, as a rule, counts
for little ; he “ hustles,” makes a row, is vigorous,
and workers in the far north of Queensland and
the far sand of Westralia, who know few other
Federal members by name, acclaim him for that
reason. The curious phenomenon is thus pre-
sented of the Australian, individually,being capable
of great energy, admiring great energy, and yet
collectively suffering from that tired feeling. The
same people which produces champions in almost
every branch of sport; which can boast as
to the rank and file of its workers that they
will hold their own against the world ; which is
ever sending away pioneers to the remote places
of the earth; which has always a welcome for the
energetic man in politics—is content, nevertheless,
to allow its institutions of government to drift
into the hands of weakling time-servers and poor
mediocrities; its legislation to be mostly of the
neuter gender; its industrial life to languish
under a blight of indolent carelessness. The
Australian man is a virile type, capable of becom-
ing a champion in sport, a pioneer in explora-
tion, a captain in industry. The Australian
nation has been, so far, shiftless, lazily tolerant,
incapable of organising to utilise, as a means to
great power, the wonderful chances put into its
hands by fortune.
* * * *
Perhaps the explanation is that the Australian
type—of great potential energy, sometimes need-
ing strong stimulus to- call out his good quali-
ties, but always capable of effort—is yet cursed
with a grave doubt of appearances, and is
fearful generally that enthusiasm should show as
ridiculous. He lets his doubts take refuge in a
cynical attitude of “don’t-care.” The man who
“doesn’t care a darn” is familiar to the city
and the back country. As a matter of truth he
does care, and cares very much, for a good deal
of what he professes to disregard. But his
shyness suggests that not to care is a
safe stand to take, and he therefore hides his
emotions and his hopes. That is the spirit which,
to a very large extent, governs Australian public
life. It is in a way the antithesis of the spirit of
blague, the pose of overweening national conceit,
which is found so offensive in other peoples ; and
yet it can and does exist side by side with a
very marked degree of vanity. The Australian
citizen is not by any means an over-modest man :
he has a quite sufficiently good opinion of himself.
But in his community life he suffers, without effort
at remedy, under the ban of being a helpless, inferior
sort of creature. His assent is tacitly given to
various propositions most hurtful to national
pride—that he cannot manufacture things like
the European or Japanese ; that he cannot defend
himself but must hire defence from outside ; that
he cannot pay his way like the ordinary man but
must exist on debt; that he cannot expect in his
public life any high standard of ability or honesty,
and that “ statesmen ” of the type of G. H. Reid,
Thomas Bent, Jenkins and Joseph Carruthers
are good enough for him.
* * * *
From these various, seemingly contradictory
facts—that the Australian individually is a tough,
skillful, resourceful worker, but collectively is
content to be classed as a mere rouseabout for
civilisation ; that the Australian as a man is keen-
witted, well-educated, ambitious, and a good deal
conceited, but as a unit of a nation is content to be
bamboozled by ignorant and unworthy men into
acquiescence with a humiliating state of debt
and defencelessness —it is difficult to trace any
general conclusion. But what seems to be
true, is that the Australian is good enough
stuff to make a nation of, but that so far
he lacks the community feeling. He has not
been taught how to effectively extend his personal
pride into a national pride, his individual desire
for supremacy, and his individual capacity to
hustle, into a collective dignity and vigorousness.
What would have been of priceless value to Aus-
tralia is an effective savage.
* * * *
If, on the foundation of these States, the
aborigines holding the country had been bold and
warlike, sufficiently powerful to make the acquisi-
tion of territory a matter of some fighting, a
different bent would have been at the outset given
to the Australian character. The necessity for
community action would have been from the first
impressed, a tradition not of individual but of
collective prowess established. Settlement, of
course, would have spread more slowly, and that
would have been another advantage. Instead of
a thin sprinkling of population over an enormous
area, as at present, thickly clustered groups would
have gathered around the more fertile coast lands,
gradually extending as the pressure of population
became stronger than the fear of the savages’
weapons. How much the United States of Ame-
rica owe to their Red Indians it would be difficult
to over-estimate. The Red Indian not only saw
to it that settlement proceeded on natural lines by
groups, but he, from the first, hammered in the
lesson of solidarity, and gave to the American
people that national self-respect which comes of
battles fought and dangers surmounted together.
Communities are best cemented with blood.
* * * *
But, unhappily, aboriginal Australia lacked
altogether an effective savage. The thin tribes
of blacks melted away before the white man, leav-
ing no records except those of mean murders on
either side. Tasmania boasts a “ Black War,” but
the chief weapon of the white in that disgraceful
campaign was poisoned flour. Not in any district
or any State was the aboriginal population power-
ful enough to make a fair stand against the white
man’s settlement, or to drive home the lesson that
a people can live only by mutual help and reliance.
England threatened once or twice to make up
for the lack of an efficient savage, but the
threat, or promise, was never fulfilled. At
Eureka, at Circular Quay, when the convicts
were sent back, again when the Chinese
were barred out, there seemed a chance of a
new nation coming to life with bloodshed. But
always at the pinch, England was too wise for its
own interests, too humane, and gave way.
Deplorable as it would have been for Australia to
have won, as the Americans did, a baptism of
blood at the swords of kindred, there is little
doubt but that even a fratricidal war would have
had an ultimate national advantage. It often
seems that things have been too easy for the
Australians, that before they can learn to think
as a nation, and to put a proper value on their
responsibilities, they must be called upon to fight
together—not in some filibustering raid on another
country, undertaken in mere delight of battle, but
at the call of national necessity, in stern, almost
despairing defence of their own territory.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
What the White Can Do.
The Kanaka crowd is flooding Sydney and Mel-
bourne again with a steady supply of lie-literature
in the interests of the monopolists who have
flourished on Cheap Black Labor. “The white
man can’t stand the tropic heat; he can’t exist in
a sugar field ” —this the burden of it all. The
writers picture a cane-brake and ask, “Can a
white stand that?” They don’t picture other
things and say, “The white stands that.” Yet,
consider what he does stand. In N.Q. the writer
has personally seen white men screen auriferous
tailings with the thermometer at 110 degrees. He
has also seen lengthsmen relay a running road in
the humid coastal district at 102 degrees. Both
these sets of men worked amid dust and other
nuisances, week in week out, for months on end;
and they do it even when the heat runs up to
llOdeg. At Charters Towers, thousands of white
men toil in deep workings, where the temperature
of the smoke and fracteur-filled air reaches 35deg.
higher than the surface temperature. Lately,
these same white men didn’t have to be called
on to go underground amongst the poisonous
fumes from the Brilliant fire; it was a greater
job to restrain them from going; and they
grumbled when they were ordered up. Writer,
m a mine further north, worked in a cross-cut
where the temperature was 113°. Thousands of
white men stand these conditions,—fracteur fumes
machine dust, and risk of accident thrown in— and
never stop to think that they are doing anything
special. Then, leaving the goldfields, consider
the old-style reverberatory copper furnaces, where
the heat of the molten slag and metal was so
great that men had to wrap old felt hats or such
like round their shins to protect them from scorch
White men stood that. In the “ gullet ”of a 60-
feet cutting in mid-summer, when 110° is the
signal for knock off-white men stand that. For
from £3 to £4 10s. a week the N.Q. miner will go
on standing such things, the same as the Flinders
shearer stands as much or more, handling hot,
stinking sheep, in a foetid atmosphere in a blister-
ing galvanised shed, for £1 a hundred. Or, along-
coast, who has yet heard of any white steamboat
line, that wasn’t black and mean, being laid up
for want of white stokers and trimmers, bar
strikes ? Eight pounds to £9 a month is a good
reason why. And that suggests the reason why
the white man “ can’t ” do lighter labor up north.
One shocked sugar farmer stated that he offered
such generous pay that it was possible to earn
from 7s. to Bs. a day, yet only two men offered in
Brisbane. Fare up, £4 ; fare back, ditto. Dura-
tion of season variable in different areas; but if a
man got three months’ work he would do well.
Cost of living, say, 30 per cent, dearer than the
city. Because white men wouldn’t take it on at
the price, the southern papers are told that the
white man “can’t.” And when they go, it is
further stated that as soon as they earn a few shil-
lings they clear out. Well ? The miner or stoker or
smelter sees money before him and stays. But if 255.
was all these same men could handle after a week’s
work, they would desert those indutries ; at least
the best of them would. That the white man
can’t do the work is a lie. It is proved a lie by
the fact that he is every day doing worse work.
The whole truth is that he wants to be paid for it;
and the mean white of the north, because he
won’t pay white’s wages, says that the white
won’t work.
No Money for Sydney.
Sydney Telegraph seems hurt to find that the
newest N.S.W. loan of two millions “will bring
hardly any money to Sydney.” The Telegraph
ought to tell now when a loan did bring money to
Sydney. From the middle of 1900 to the middle
of 1903, N.S.W. borrowed for purposes other than
redemption £12,435,147. Except a small amount
scraped up locally, the whole of this was raised in
England. Yet, so far as money is concerned, this
is what we got from England -
Gold. Silver. Total.
1900 .. .. Nil £140,000 £140,000
1901 .. .. Nil 90,000 90,000
1902 .. .. £lOO,OOO 40,000 140,000
Three years’imports.. £lOO,OOO £270,000 £370,000
Meantime this is what N.S.W. exported to Eng-
land in the shape of hard coin :
Gold. Silver. Total.
1900 .. ~ £488,806 nil £488,806
1901 .. .. 524,293 nil 524,293
1902 .. .. 680,585 nil 680,585
Three years’ exports £1,693,654 nil £1,693,684
So, in its greatest borrowing burst, N.S. Wales
actually received from Cohen, in money, only
Australian Engineers
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three boys, from 15 to 18, recently applied to a well-
known public official for “ a start in something." Each
said he wanted to be an engineer. Several schoolmasters
have recently asked boys of the higher classes what they
would like to be. Carpentering and engineering seemed
the favorite callings.— News par.
Ah, well! but the case seems hopeless, and the
pen might write in vain :
The people gabble of old things over and over
again.
For the sake of the sleek importer we slave with
the pick and the shears,
While hundreds of boys in Australia long to be
engineers.
A new generation has risen under Australian
skies,
Boys with the light of genius deep in their dreamy
eyes—
Not as of artists or poets with their vain
imaginings,
But born to be thinkers and doers, and makers of
wonderful things.
Born to be builders of vessels in the Harbors of
Waste and Loss,
That shall carry our goods to the nations, flying
the Southern Cross ;
And fleets that shall guard our seaboard—while the
East is backed by the Jews—
Under Australian captains, and manned by Aus-
tralian crews.
They long for the crank and the belting, the gear
and the whirring wheel,
The stamp of the giant hammer, the glint of the
polished steel.
For the mould and the vyce and the lathe—they
are boys who long for the keys
To the doors of the world’s Mechanics and
Science’s mysteries.
They would be makers of fabrics, of cloth for the
continents—
Makers of mighty engines and delicate instru-
ments ;
It is they who would set fair cities on the western
plains far out,
They who would garden the deserts—it is they
who would conquer the drought !
They see the dykes to the skyline, where a dust-
waste blazes to-day,
And they hear the lap of the waters on the miles
of sand and clay ;
They see the rainfall increasing, and the boundless
sweeps of grass,
And all the year on the rivers the strings of barges
pass.
But still the steamers sail out with our timber and
wool and gold,
And back with the costly shoddy stacked high in
the foreign hold ;
With the cardboard boots for our leather, and the
Brummagem goods and the slops
For stunted and white-faced Australians to sell in
our sordid shops.
HENRY LAWSON.


£370,000, while it sent to Cohen £1,693,684. The
State not only handed Cohen its I O U for 12 a
millions, but £1,323,000 of money into the
bargain. What New South Wales did get for
its I O U and its money was manufactured goods.
Broadly speaking, N. S. Wales went 121 millions
in debt to build up the industries of other coun-
tries and make its own children weak dependents :
and then, having made them weak dependents,
and barely able to keep themselves going, much less
to pay up back bills, a grateful parent bequeathed
to them the I O U he gave to Cohen. This is like
a man, who has had an arm and a leg bitten off bv
a bear, getting the bear for a present, with strict
instructions to feed it well for the rest of its life.
+
“ To Let.”
There is an anguished cry in Sydney prints
that the suburbs thereabout are studded with
empty houses ; and in the interests of Property it
is demanded that “ the burden of taxation ” shall
be lightened. The Telegraph seeks to prod the
tenant to pull Property’s nuts out of the fire by
telling him that it is he who has to pay the tax on
the empty house as well as upon the house he lives
in. Incidentally, the allegation is valuable, be-
cause, if the tenant is the real ratepayer, in respect
of both the occupied and the unoccupied house, by
what right is the owner a voter, except in
respect of his own residence ? But when
the Telegraph asks us to believe that it is
filled with compassion for the tenant, because
he has to pay rent for the unoccupied as
well as the occupied house, it asks us to swallow
too much. For one thing the theory runs too
violently against the Telegraph’s other pet theory
with regard to supply and demand. An over-
supplied market means cheapness ; the Telegraph
asks us to believe that, where houses are con-
cerned, it means dearness. The workman knows
that when there are three of him struggling for
one job, he has to take low wages ; now it seems
that when there are three landlords struggling for
one tenant, the law works the other way,
and the tenant has to pay high rents. It’s
that sort of argument which gives people the
fleeting suspicion, sometimes, that the Telegraph
isn’t quite as frank and consistent as it might
lie. Meantime, however, there is no doubt that
empty houses are bad for somebody. They are a
waste and a drag ; they are mostly built with bor-
rowed money, and the country is the poorer for
having to pay interest which isn’t earned. That
it is very largely foreign debt which these pre-
mises represent is pretty well proved by the fact
that a boom in building always occurs during a
borrowing boom. At such times we borrow money
to build premises here, and we provide the work
for people who live in foreign parts. Then,
when we have the premises and nobody to
occupy them, all that the Telegraph can
suggest is that taxes shall be reduced.
At the most that will save Proputty a few shillings
a year, and what it saves in that way it loses
through the local goat being allowed to wander
unmolested, and the local jam tin to heap up in
front of the “ To Let ” board. The tax-reduction
will do no more than that; it will not add a single
tenant; it will not bring in a penn’orth of rent.
The idea of getting people to fill the premises—of
employing workmen here instead of abroad—of
making the place attractive to the world—of these
things the Telegraph doesn’t think. It only
thinks of encouraging the accumulation of the
foreign sardine tin in public places, so that the
man may trip over it as he goes in search of work
at the factories that don’t exist.
The Labor Leagues and Protection.
There is a chance that the platform of the Federal
Labor party may be amended before long in such
fashion as to preclude any Freetrader from re-
ceiving a Labor nomination. N.S.W. Political
Labor League will hold its annual conference in
Sydney very shortly ; and a number of delegates
will carry commands from their leagues insisting
on the introduction of a prohibitive Federal tariff.
N.S.W. Political Labor League is responsible to
a very large extent for the character of the Federal
Labor platform ; and, once that body plumps for
Protection, the Labor party will practically be won
for the cause of Australian nationalism. The Vic-
torian Trades Hall inquiied into the working of
the tariff on its own account a while back. As a
consequence, the Trades Hall now knows what
most perceptive Australians recognised a couple
of years ago. Stephen Barker, as secretary of
the United Trades Tariff Conference, submitted
a report
(1) That serious ravages have been made upon Austra-
lian industries by the present Federal tariff.
(2) That some of the trades affected are absolutely
standing still; and, where prior to the introduction of
the present tariff hundreds of skilled artisans were
engaged, the machinery is silent, the capital used in them
heavily discounted, and the managing staff and every
kind of worker under them completely idle.
(3) The spectacle of thousands of pounds worth of
machinery laid aside, with hundreds of technically
trained artisans out of work, and, crowning summit of
the iniquity, the foreign sweated-labor products dumped
into our markets, duty free, demonstrated the pernicious
effects of the tariff upon the workers of the Common-
wealth.
As a remedy the Trades Hall conference
submitted: —■
As we ask in the interests of a White Australia that
the colored races shall not be permitted to engage in
unequal competition with our own people, so their wares
should also be excluded from our warehouses, factories,
shops, and homes. If we sincerely desire a White
Australia, both alien races and their products, BY
MEANS OF A PROHIBITIVE TARIFF, must be dis-
carded, as a means to the encouragement of Australian
manufactures and productions. By such means Aus-
tralian enterprise and inventive genius would he stimu-
lated, with the natural sequence of educational impetus,
mechanical progress, and a number of other improve-
ments within the scope of Federated Australian national
development and prosperity.
It is a long while since any Australian Labor
League or Council brought in such a common-
sense report and recommendation as that. Let the
Labor leagues in the other States make similar
inquiries impartially, and they must come to
similar conclusions.
♦
The Scandal of the Nor’-West.
“G.R.F.”: “ Vigilans’” pen-picture of Beagle
Bay, Nor’-west Australia (8., 5/l/’O5), is true to
life, and should galvanise Australians into taking
drastic action to protect the miserable offspring of
.the natives from further contamination by the
crews of the pearling luggers, which consist of the
rakings of Asia. The Bevans, Careys, and other
rev. and enthusiastic admirers of the yellow
and black men, should see the festering Asiatic
sore that is spreading along the west and
northern coast line of the continent to realise the
horrible possibilities of ill that follow on the
influx of the mongrel Asiatic races. These
: reverend gentlemen would be especially inter-
ested to note how their darling Asiatics
spend their Sundays when ashore, in the hurricane
season, which lasts from November to the end of
March. During the week-days they are kept at
work from daylight till dark, but from 3 o’clock on
Saturday afternoon till Monday they are allowed
to occupy their time as they please. The men on
credit with the “slop-chest’’’buy extensively of
rice, at 10s. a bag of 561 b., flour at 155., gaudy
blankets at £1 each, tobacco, and other things dear
to the blacks, and hurry away to the blacks’ camp-
ing places in the scrub. There they barter away
their purchases to the old men of the tribes for
the women and children, who are handed over to
the Japs, Malays and Manila men. Occasionally,
grog gets ashore, and then the fierce hatred that
slumbers in the Malay for the Manila man, and
in the Japanese for both, awakens, and it takes all
the persuasive power of the Colt revolvers in the
hands of the white men to reduce them to their
normal condition of cowed and snarling beasts.
But, so long as they don’t knife each other or
injure his property, the master pearler cares little
what else they do ; and this apathy renders the
task of saving the young children from these
Asiatic fiends the more difficult for the few
mounted police, who, to their credit, do their best
to detect and punish offences against children.
But bush telegraphy in the black Nor’-west is in
the highest state of perfection, and the movements
of white men (police particularly) are known in
blacks’camp hours before the visitors arrive, and
by that time the injured women and children are
out of the way. There is a heavy penalty for
allowing lubras or their children on board luggers,
but it is common enough all the same, and the
police are powerless to prevent it.
♦
Sporadic Philanthropy.
Every calamity of great proportions is made the
text of an appeal to the pockets of the public.
The charity thus evoked is too often diverted into
morasses of waste and futility. There have been
many such exasperating experiences. Everybody
knows the history of the Bulli Colliery
Sufferers’ Fund, and many other funds since
that date. It is not alone the fact
that money charitably subscribed is lavishly
wasted in the machinery of its distribution;
that ridiculous extravagance is indulged in
—costly stationery, highly-paid clerical staffs and
palatial offices. There is something more annoy-
ing still. The public in its generosity frequently
subscribes much more than is needed. The money
is vested in a trust for administration for the
specific purpose, and that prevents the application
of the surplus funds to the amelioration of any
other national calamities that may subsequently
take place. Then, when the next fund comes
along, the public, perhaps, subscribes much less
than is needed. The remedy for this condition of
things would be the creation of a State officer of
Public Charity. It is not desirable, as yet, to
propose that the State should take over the
responsibility of relieving all such distress out of
taxation, and thus discouraging private generosity.
But the calamity appeals should be systematised—
all money paid in to the State trustee and disbursed
by him for the disaster which specially evokes it,- or
for any subsequent need of the same type. It is a
matter of common observation that a “ thrilling ”
accident, with but a small amount of disaster in
its train, causes a bigger flow of charity than a
more prosaic happening, causing much more poverty
and suffering. By systematising the matter of
appeals this would be no longer an evil to be
regretted. But as things are the stupidity of
sporadic philanthropy needs to be modified by
humanitarian wisdom.
♦
By the Wool.
The lead mining and smelting business illustrates
how the modern nation builds up its industries,
and how the country that won’t learn the same
lesson has to be merely a hewer of wood and
drawer of water. One Broken Hill mine which
does its own lead-smelting in Australia employs
one man for every 130 tons of ore, while another
co., with richer ore, employs only one man
for every 235 tons produced per annum ; but, the
latter co. sells its concentrates, which are shipped
to Germany, so that Germans not only have the
actual work of smelting these concentrates,
but they also supply the coal, coke, etc.
They have deliberately set themselves oat to get
all this trade. First, they put a heavy duty on
lead bars, which shut the Australian producer
out of one of the biggest markets in the world.
Having built up no manufacturing industries of
his own, the Australian has to export to the
countries which have built up such industries;
and they are just the very countries—Germany
and the U.S. notably—which have the stiffest
duties. With no market of his own, the Aus-
tralian found half the world’s markets shut.
Germany, having thus got one leg in, proceeded
to put in another. It shut out lead bars, but it
openedits ports to concentrates and crude ores; and
by means of shipping subsidies, it made the freights
on these goods very low to the German purchaser.
The result of all these things, working together,
is that upwards of 30,000 tons of lead ore go away
unsmelted every year—Australia doesn’t even have
the job of getting the dirt away from the metal
which it exports. And in return it gets back
manufactured lead goods—white lead, paint, elec-
trical articles, ammunition, &c.,-in the production
of which the foreign workman has been employed
instead of the Australian. Now Australian zinc
is going precisely the same way. There was a
time, not so long ago, when even America ex-
ported lead ores to Germany ; but the U.S. soon
saw. the absurdity of that, and, through fostering
its own industries, it has itself become a large
purchaser of Mexican and Canadian ores, which
are treated in bond, the product being either used
at home, or sent abroad to the open markets and
sold at surplus-stock prices ; and that is the metal
with which our metal has to compete. Then we
wonder how it is that protected countries have got
us by the wool and are shaking us, and why our
products are often low priced, and our population
almost stationary !
—, ♦
The Year Ahead for Tasmania. -
The year 1905 dawned dully on Tasmania, and
the prospect ahead is anything but cheering. The
State with neither honesty nor grit enough to
come in out of the mud, is practically bankrupt;
and the present sorrv Government is mainly con-
cerned to postpone the public examination so long
as possible. With a population well under 200,000
—the population of a second-class English
provincial town—the State has, during many years
of misgovernment by monopoly, heaped-up such a
ghastly incubus of public debt that the interest-
bill now amounts in round figures to £lOOO a day.
This sum has to be scooped out of the little
treasure-chest every morning, before the days
actual needs can be attended to. The average
Tasmanian legislator has so many class-exemptions
rooted in his thick head that it is really very diffi-
cult to get any considerable amount of money by
direct taxation. The island, with great tracts of
alienated land lying waste, submits rebelliously to
a halfpenny land-tax, and talks darkly all the
time of the “grievous burdens ’ born by Land.
Land (with the capital L) is one of those fetishes
that badly needs strangling, and the fetish Capital
might profitably be exposed to derision on the
same gibbet. Thanks to this form of fetishism,
the owning of a sufficiently large quantity of
land in Tasmania—provided always that it is
kept closed as completely as possible from settle-
ment and usefulness —is, in ordinary, accounted a
positive virtue in any man. The State further
loves to “ encourage capital,” and it encourages it
most habitually by letting it escape all responsi-
bility of its just obligations. If land were
properly taxed, the land-grabbers would be
knocked-out speedily, settlement would be
fostered along legitimate lines, and there
would be some reasonable hope of eventually
shifting the bloated public debt. But
while the Evans Government remains in power
there is no hope, Evans being especially promi-
nent as a buttress of the House of Dodery, which
has the one set purpose in life of enabling the
plutocratic minority it represents to dodge legiti-
mate and reasonable taxation. Holding that the
working man is a very impudent fellow for daring
to be alive, the House of Dodery believes in in-
creasing the taxation of the working man at every
possible opportunity. There, according to Dodery,
you have in a nutshell the secret of State
finance. Unfortunately for the little treasure-
chest, the worker in Tasmania already bears
so disproportionately large a share of the
taxation of the country that he practically cannot
be made to bear more. The workers of the State
are very poor. Wages sre lower and some neces-
saries dearer than in any of the larger Australian
States. Also, over a good part of Tasmania, work
is more uncertain. There is no great pastoral in-
dustry ; no great agricultural industry even. The
fruit industry is substantial; but it only employs
a certain fixed number of people, mostly women
and children, during a certain fixed period of each
year. The mining industry is substantial, but it
is depressed—wages, in regard to the conditions
and cost of living, are low—and there is no opening
for fresh labor on the fields. The hope of Tas-
manian democracy in 1905 is, first of all, that
Evans and his awful crowd will be ejected
speedily; after, that, at the election ensuing, an
Assembly will be returned to deal with the House
of Dodery. Failing that, Tasmania looks like
being about the first State of the Commonwealth to
file its schedule.
« .
The Undesirable Immigrant.
There is so much idiotic blather about the iniquity
of Australia’s Immigration Restriction Act th.it it
cannot be too often pointed out that, in compari-
son with legislation on similar lines in other
countries, the Australian Act is mild and gentle.
The United States Government exacts full in-
formation from intending immigrants upon every
one of the following questions ; and the immigrant
who supplies a false statement is returned to his
starting place without further argument:—
Age : In years and months.
Sex, and whether married or single.
Occupation, and whether able to read or write.
Nationality, and last place of residence.
Seaport for landing in the U.S. A., and also final destina-
tion. Whether immigrant lias a ticket right through to
final destination, also who paid for same?
Whether immigrant possesses any money ; and, if so,
does the amount exceed $3O, and by how much?
Whether immigrant has ever been in the United States
before ; and if so when and where ?
Whether immigrant intends to join a relative in the
U.S. ; and if so that relative’s name, occupation and
address ?
Whether the immigrant has ever been in gaol or has
ever been supported by charity ; full details to be given in
either case ?
Whether a disciple of Brigham Young or not ?
Whether under contract of labor in any shape or form,
and what prospects, if any, of employment ?
Finally, the U.S. asks every immigrant to pro-
duce a comprehensive health bill, mental as well
as physical; and requires a full account of all
debilities and deformities. A satisfactory account
has to be given on all these points before the
immigrant to America can be taken on board any
ship ; and Uncle Sam provides a rigorous set of
punishments for even the smallest deviation
from the immigration laws. And it is the
right way to do it. No decent man would
admit a total stranger into his home with-
out obtaining the fullest satisfaction as regards
his character ; and a nation has the same right to
be particular. But, the main point to be stressed
is that the stern care with which U.S.A. excludes
the unsuitable immigrant does not frighten away
but encourages the suitable one. It is not the
Australian Immigration Act which keeps immi-
grants away from our shores. It is the Tory land
monopolists and Freetraders, who destroy the
hope of work, without which the stranger will not
come.
The Chambers of Small Men.
A comparison of the membership of the Federal
Convention with that of State Parliaments drives
home one argument for wiping the latter bodies
out of existence. That argument is simply that
there are not enough capable public men in Aus-
tralia to supply State Parliaments as well as the
Australian Parliament, and that the capable men
prefer the Australian Parliament. The Federal
Convention no doubt might have been better ; yet
it was a collection worthy of Australia, and there
were not half-a-dozen large, or fairly large, men in
Australian public life who were out of it. A few
small men got in, but, for all that, it was a gather-
ing branded by Australia as the best it had. Now
look for members of the picked flock in the State
Parliaments. N.S.W. has two, which is more
than the average. Wise is one ; Carruthers the
other. Victoria doesn’t number a single one in
its House of Landlords, and only Peacock in the
other House; and Peacock is far too busy now“
making money to trouble much about politics.
S. Australia hasn’t one Conventioner in its
Assembly, and in its Council it has only J. H.
Howe, who got into the Convention unexpectedly
as ninth or tenth man, and is now mostly sick.
The Tasmanian Assembly hasn’t one Conven-
tioner, and its Council only one, who is never
heard from. Westralia, where there wasn’t a
popular election, may be left out of the reckon-
ing ; and Queensland only came in afterwards.
Thus of the 40 men upon whom Australia set its
first-class brand, only two, Joey Carruthers and
the played-out Peacock, are in the State Assem-
blies ; and sick-man Howe is the only one now in
Australia who is in any Legislative Council, Wise
being out of Australia. Yet when it is suggested
that Australia should ask those whom it has itself
put into the first class to do some more of Austra-
lia’s public work, the provincial papers shriek
“State Frights,” and the public seems to agree
with them to a great extent anyway, the public
doesn’t actively protest against the shrieking.
And the result is that the. admitted second and
third-raters, in whose interest the “State Frights ”
cry is raised, make as bad a mess of things as
might be expected.
Putting Them on the Land: A New Phase.
Even England, driven to it by Freetrade, begins
to babble about “putting the unemployed on the
land.” Witness this extract from the London
letter of an Australian daily:—
In one patch of the East End alone there are more than
9000 men out of work. Manchester has 10,000 unem-
ployed, a large proportion of them married. W ith their
families and dependents these workers make, according
to an .estimate supplied to the city council, between
40,000 and 50,000 “on the verge of starvation. At
Leicester 5000 men are receiving outdoor relief, and twice
as many are barely existing independently. There are
6000 houses “to let” in the town. The poor there are
said not to have been in so miserable a plight since the
Crimean war. At Sheffield, which should he one of the
busiest spots in England, there are 2030 persons in receipt
of outdoor relief, 1728 indoor paupers, and several thou-
sands who cannot get sufficient employment to keep
them in moderate comfort.
It is officially stated that all the London workhouses
are crowded to their last inch, though the winter cannot
yet be said to have begun. At Poplar (from which an
appeal has been made to the King) many of the dockers
are “ living on one day’s work a week,” and 3890 persons
are receiving outdoor relief. . Thousands of the same
class of workers are reported to be out of employment at
Liverpool and Cardiff. There is also much suffering
among the colliers at the latter port in consequence of
the damage which the Russo-Japanese war has done to
maritime trade. The export of pig iron from Middles-
brough of late is described as the smallest for ten years,
and employment there has decreased accordingly. At
Leeds 3000 men are registered in the corporation bureau
as unemployed. These are a few of the outstanding
facts of the position, which seems likely to become much
worse as the winter advances.
Labor leaders suggest that the Government should
acquire tracts of land for cultivation by the unemployed,
the settlement and immediate control to be left to local
authorities. “ Whatever is done,” says Mr. Crooks,
“ not a single sixpence should be expended on charity.
It is work that is wanted.” He points out that sufficient
could be raised to give the poor a start in agricultural
work on a small scale if they had the land. The expense
of getting the land is so great that only the State could
meet it.
The men on the land in England—the men who
understand agriculture—can’t make a living now
by reason of high rents, Ereetrade and foreign
competition. So there begins to be a feeble talk
about replacing them with men who don’t know
anything about agriculture, and who have been
driven out of their trades by Freetrade and foreign
competition. The Freetrader always ‘‘kids him-
self” that England’s vast imports are imports of
raw material to be made up in the vast factories
that have grown up under Freetrade —but they
aren’t. In 1902 Britain imported £132,479,875
worth of manufactured goods, and in 1903 it
imported £134,059,090 worth—mostly manufac-
tures of iron and steel, machinery, cotton and
woollen fabrics, leather goods, chemicals, earthen-
ware, glass, &c. This is taking no account of such
more or less manufactured products as flour,
cheese, refined sugar, butter, spirits, and manu-
factured tobacco. Every year the imports of
manufactured goods into Britain grow larger, and
the local artisan’s chance of a job fades propor-
tionately. And Freetrade has no remedy to offer,
unless Cobden’s bones can be called a remedy.
+
“ G., ” from S. Aus., which is to have a General
Election in a few months :
As an ardent democrat, I urge the Labor party not to
call itself the Socialistic party. I know the cocky
farmer’s mind well, and I know his political aspirations
are not wide of the L.P.’s ambition to burst up monopoly
in land, to get at the absentee, to tariff local industries
into healthy existence, to throttle the Trust Octopus ;
but I also know that the word Socialism sends a shiver
through him. The L.P. must check its impetuosity,
effect a cure of social and industrial evils by legislative
potions bearing a less obtrusive label ; and then say to the
applauding cocky, “ You have been swallowing Socialism.
The railways with their cheap carriage, the State bank
with its cheapening of money, the Agricultural College,
and travelling instructors, the Public schools —all these
things are Socialism. How do you like it?” He’d ask for
more. I know a couple of ‘ 1 Socialists,” adherents of the L. P.,
who want to be M.’sP. They hurl hunky definitions like
this at the staggered farmer—“ On this point all
Socialists agree. Our aim, one and all, is to obtain for
the whole community complete ownership and control
of means of transport, the means of manufacture, the
mines and the land.” It takes his breath away. He
thinks about his little bit of land and the money he’s put
into it. His leanings to the L.P. unbend, and he passes
his vote on to the fat Conservative to be on the safe side.
The fact that the farmer has a good deal of Socialism
already, and likes it, doesn’t make him any less shy of
Socialism. He doesn’t, in fact, believe that these things
are Socialistic at all, and how can he be expected to
believe it, seeing that they’ve nearly all been nominally
introduced by alleged anti-Socialists ? The Labor party
must therefore get a chance to show him that it would
only give him just the same sort of stuff as he has been
taking and relishing. Above all things the party wants a
chance. And it will never get one while it tries to catch
the farmer, who is absolutely essential to him in agricul-
tural S. Australia, by holding up to him the thing that he
dreads most.
— »
The worse the bargain Australia made over the
Naval Tribute, the greater the need to rectify the
mistake. The mere fact that we are paying an
annual £200,000 doesn’t, of course, protect us. A
man might have paid 10s. for a Christmas turkey,
but if the turkey wasn’t there when he wanted it,
the fact that he had paid 10s. wouldn’t give him
a dinner. He had made a bad bargain oyer
the turkey and the 10s. ; but the need of something
for dinner would be as great as ever. Australia is
paying £200,000 for a protection which doesn’t
guarantee to be there when we want it; yet, in
spite of the payment, the need is as great as ever.
From the days when he commanded 8. Australia’s
little fleet of one small gunboat to the present,
when he is the Commonwealth’s naval director,
Captain Cues well has strenuously advocated the
creation of an Australian navy ; and he is advocat-
ing it still. Luckily, he is now in a position to
speak where he can be heard ; and the matter will
soon be before the Federal Govt. Clearly we can
be sure of protection in no other way. If Aus-
tralia wants vessels, it must own them. The
existence of the Naval Tribute should possibly
influence us as to the class of boats to be acquired
—they should be strictly for harbor and coastal
defence : torpedo boats, submarines, and the like.
But beyond that, the fact that we are paying
dearly for a protection which doesn’t protect
should not count.
—
Before the inrush of t’otliersiders the ’Groper ad-
ministrators of Westralia did some peculiar
things. One was to give a shipping co. the
nor’-western mail service without tendering,
and the co. has hung on to it for 20 years. Just
on the eve,,: of Federation a fresh contract was
entered into with the same co. to carry the mails
for another six years for an annual £4500, the
co. to have the free use of the telegraphic
service, and also exemption from pilot, har-
bor, and other dues. No tenders were invited,
and the whole business was carried through
as though it were a deal in butter. Only one
mail steamer is run monthly, and much of the
postal matter and passengers and cargo are sent
forward by the Singapore boats which leave every
fortnight. Of course, the Postal Department has
to pay poundage to the owners of the Singapore
steamers, in addition to the thumping subsidy
presented to the contracting co. ; but the Common-
wealth Government can do nothing in the way of
annulling the contract. Meanwhile, the mail
service is costing close on £lO,OOO a year ; and
the arrangement with the co'. .is binding for
another three years. . - j


1 OF 2
Events is Sure—Death or Old Age.
A 5 Per Cent. Debenture Bond (with 5 per cent, interest guaranteed for 20 years) in the
Equitable will make provision against both.
It will protect your family, if you die—or yourself, if you live.
NOW is the time to make such provision—
. \ V'
To-Morrow may be too late.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
5 per cent. Debenture Bond.
I ivas born
. Name
Address •••
OLIVER
A Modern Machine
FOR THE UP-TO-DATE
BUSINESS MAN.
SPECIAL
FEATURES.
Visible Writing.
Durability.
Easy Manipulation.
<?*
Sole Wholesale Agents—
M. RUTTY&co.
SYDNEY.
il- !
K ,»
;; . j • ;
,m
h&
Srs
H
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ H.M.S. Pinafore.”
Theatre Royal “A Desperate Game.”
Lyceum “ Blind Man’s Buff.”
Tivoli Riokards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Williamson’s Bio-Tableau.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Romeo and Juliet.”
Her Majesty’s “The Geisha,”
New Theatre Royal.. “Sinbad the Sailor.”
Opera House Hackensohmidt.
Bijou “A Soldier and a Man.”
Princes Court “ Shooting the Chute,” &c.
It has been a conservative week among the
Sydney theatres. At Her Majesty’s, “Pinafore”
has continued to charm and please : there’s no
better proof of the very high quality of Gilbert
and Sullivan’s work than the fact that the “ olio ”
interpolated into the second act in this production
to spin out time (the public likes to be amused
until 11 p.m.) seems tame compared with the
opera itself. Yet it is a very bright patch of “olio,”
with Miss Eileen Boyd as chief singer, and an ex-
cellent hornpipe. “The Pirates of Penzance” is in
naration. At the Royal “A Desperate Game ”
, lyed out nightly to a cheery and happy con-
clusion. No change is contemplated until Satur-
day week. The Tivoli has found no reason to
change a strong programme, and is advertising its
present bill-of-fare as better than a pantomime for
the children ; which is probably a fact. The
average pantomime of these days is taken ad-
vantage of by the leading ladies to undress more
than usual, and by the leading comedians to
parade jokes with hardly any clothes on them at
all. At the Tivoli just now the show is clean and
wholesome and has many features attractive to
the youngsters.
** * *
These are the last hours of Peg Woffington
at the Lyceum ; Saturday night Nellie Stewart
will cease to enter upon a donkey in the furbelows
of 150 years ago, and will be somebody’s sweet
sister in the frocks of to-day. She will still be
pursued by two lovers, but they will step out of
something as modern as Wall-street, New York ;
one of them will be a pork-butchering sort of
millionaire, of course, and the other, who is an
otherwise nice young man, will go away to shoot
perfect strangers in a far land. “ Blind Man’s
Buff,” in spite of the pork-butchering person and
its domestic interest, will, it is promised, prove
just as dressy and ornate as “ Pretty Peggy.”
** * *
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s new concert co.
opens a Sydney season on Feb. 14. The combi-
nation is headed by Foldesy, a Hungarian ’cellist,
who has already won fame on Continental concert
platforms as an artist of rare technique and ex-
pression, and Miss Elizabeth Parkina, a young
American soprano with a Covent Garden reputa-
tion. Miss Margaret Thomas (contralto), Mr.
Whitworth Mitton (tenor) and Mr. Victor Mar-
mont (pianist) will complete a strong co.
** * *
Some of the battles between the Russians
and Japanese have been the greatest, in point of
numbers, in which white men have engaged,
since the Goths and Huns fought over the loot
of the Roman Empire at Chalons. And no inci-
dent of it has been more sensational than the
siege of Port Arthur. Captain Scott Harden’s
illustrated lecture at the Centenary Hall, York-
street, Sydney, to-night should therefore arouse
interest. He has just come from the historic
siege (he was London Chronicle and Daily
Graphic war correspondent), and should be able
to tell a moving tale.
** * *
Although Hackenschmidt is evidently the
most respected of the muscle-men who have ap-
peared at Rickards’, and although nobody questions
the genuineness of his champion title or denies
that he is a sportsman in his exhibition work,
still public sympathy for the most part is with his
opponents, provided they be white. The other
fellow is invariably the underneath dog in the
tussle, and he labors under the indignity of being
offered “£lOO to nothing” if he can throw the
Russian. The overthrow of Hackenschmidt would
be a startling novelty, and the public are looking
for startles. That’s the situation where white
challengers are concerned. But if Hackenschmidt
tackles the Indian wrestlers —Buttan or Gunga—•
he will find himself a popular idol all the time.
That’s where the white Australia policy will come
in. Even the stout, respectable gentlemen with
“a stake in the country ” who write letters to the
Argus, protesting that a White Australia is an
abominable invention of the Labor party —even
those blatant old capitalists will shout with the
mob if they go and see the black man flattened
out by Hackenschmidt at Melbourne Opera House
or the Exhibition-building. Fatman is human
when he gets his blood up.
sle * * *
The Tituses—Madame Lydia Yeamans-T.
and her spry husband—completed their short and
sweet engagement with Rickards last week, and
are now off to America again. From America
they go to England, and their present determina-
tion is to return to Australia within 18 months for
settling-down purposes. This is Mrs. Titus’
nearest approach to a native land. Her people
are mostly Australian, and she —born at sea—was
only a fortnight old when she first saw Melbourne.
As for the jaunty Titus, he is a citizen of the
world, with strong leanings towards the newest
half of it.
* # *
The revival of “ Florodora ” in Melbourne
reminds that Irene Outtrim, sauciest of the ori-
ginal Six Pretty Maidens, lately scored her first
success as a leading lady in ’Frisco. A good many
Australian girls have had to go abroad to realise
their importance, and Miss Outtrim is another of
them. ’Frisco notices of her first appearance at
the Tivoli in “ King Dodo ” were good but rather
conflicting as to details. The Call described her
as “an English beauty of graceful figure and the
prettiest of faces, having personality and charm to
spare.” The ’Frisco Bulletin spoke of her as
“an English prima-donna, who danced gracefully
and sang with a distinctive charm and a rather
light voice.” The Chronicle said, “ Clever
actress, personal magnetism,” &c., &c. ; and the
Evening Post delivered an instructive judg-
ment on our young friend: “Miss Outtrim,
who was captured on her way from Mel-
bourne to New York by the Tivoli management,
won much favor with the audience. Her dancing
lacks flexibility and grace . . . Australia evi-
dently does not give to her dancers the finish that
is noticeable in English artists. It is as an actress
that Miss Outtrim last night won her honors.
She has evidently had great experience in the
tricks of the stage, and, as far as acting is con-
cerned, can teach some of the listless female stars
of the Tivoli many valuable lessons.” A com-
paratively brief Australian experience seems to
have gone a long way with the Ballarat girl on the
American stage. She had been coached by Fred
B. Norton before she joined Williamson’s co., but
with the exception of her prominent chorus part
in “Florodora” the bright girl was given very
little chance to show her mettle.
** * *
Andersonian melodrama droops and lan-
guishes somewhat at Melb. Bijou. The house was
not built for deeds of blood and thunder. A little
more stage room is required to give the virtuous
characters a chance of expressing their feelings in
the broadest possible manner without falling over
the furniture, or infringing upon the landscape in
the far distance. As for the villains and the
comic characters, they probably feel a sense of
insecurity in being too near to the audience.
They almost invite a thunderbolt from a wrathful
“god” when they come before a curtain. It
recalls the story of Binks, the questionable
tragedian, tolling a brother pro. that he had
played Hamlet for one consecutive night in a
rugged provincial district. “ I suppose you got
a call at the end of every act?” inquired his friend.
“My boy,” said Binks, “ they did more than call
me. They dared me.” This by the way.
* * * *
“A Soldier and a Man,” staged at the
Bijou on Saturday, is a domestic trouble before it
breaks away to S’Africa and presents crowded
spectacles of British conflict with the Zulus. The
tall hero restores himself to public favor by de-
feating the enemy with great slaughter, but in the
first two acts he brings his wearisome parents to
woe, and almost drives his wife to drink. He
talks so freely about drowning his despair in
brandy that his wife grabs it from him and pro-
poses to seek the bubble consolation even at the
bottle’s mouth, whereupon he spills the good liquor
on the floor rather than let it be her only comfort
instead of his. Then they wander back to Devon-
shire, and come in at the death of his aged mother-
in-law, whose dear old home has been sold up
owing to his bad conduct. It is just here that the
young waster’s wife, remembering his selfishness
re the brandy, forbids him to assist at mother’s
funeral, and casts him loose upon the world, after
which he washes his sins away in Zulu blood, as
previously stated .s, “ A Soldier and a Man” is a
better sort of melodrama than some of the more
modern specimens, although it is handicapped
with the puerility of a military she-male named
Sergeant Jane, who appears to have sole com-
mand of a demented father. Miss Duggan catches
her breath at brief intervals in the leading-lady
part, where Miss Dora Winton figured very effec-
tively in former days ; and the rest of the co. in-
cludes Vivian Edwards, Dunbar, Stanford, Willard,
Harrison, Nunn and others, apart from Anderson’s
auxiliary forces.
* * * *K-
Both of J. C. Williamson’s shows will be
changed on Saturday. “ L’Aiglon ” has reached
its fourth week at the Princess’s, and four weeks
is a long innings for play of purely French
national sentiment, which never breaks into a
loud smile, nor touches the tender subject of
matrimony. All things considered, the fictitious
story of Little Buonaparte and his distressing
cough has been a retnarkable success. “Romeo
and Juliet ” follows. Melbourne, being warmly
disposed towards Miss Tittell Brune in top-boots,
will wish to see how she deals with the familiar
character of Juliet, the young woman who made
three different appearances in a nightgown prior
to committing suicide; in her shroud.
*. * * *
The “Florodora ” revival at Her Majesty’s
clashed, during the first week, with a spell of hot
weather that seemed to take all the brightness out
of the performance. Deterioration set in where
improvement, under cooler circumstances, might
have been fairly expected. Cyrus Gilfain and
Tweedlepunch played football with one another’s
hats, and the ladies, some of them, went about
their duties in a perfunctory manner as though
they resented the rising temperature. Friday of
this week is to be a Lauri complimentary night,
to celebrate the 14th anniversary of G.L.’s associ-
ation with the Royal Comic Opera Co., says the
advt. A benefit night nowadays is usually marked
by the intrusion of sundry items borrowed from
previous entertainments, and Lauri’s 14th anni-
versary will be no exception to this rule. On
Saturday a further revival of “ The Geisha ” will
fill the bill.
** # *
The panto, at Melbourne Royal is still
happening eight times a week. Also, it continues
to be an unduly long panto., and its dullest
moments, as before, are due to the ballets and the
“ variety ” turns. A red and green ballet in the
2nd act needs to be twice as active and only half
as long. At the Athenaeum Hall, a short farewell
season of Grossi has displaced the Biograph.
Grossi, who begins to look rather tired of his job,
is an interesting exponent of mental subjective-
ness up to a certain point, but his range of
obedience seems to be confined to pin-
finding and little things like that. One would
like to see him mentally induced to a wrestle with
Hackenschmidt, the “controller ’ standing by
and ordaining that Grossi should throw the
Russian on his back and sit on him whilst the
referee counts him out. Doughty men are im-
plored to come along and challenge Hacken-
schmidt without delay. Next week will be his
last at the Opera House, and, in the words of his
Prophet Rickards, the amiable monster is ready,
anxious, and eager to upset anybody he can catch
hold of. Three of the minor lights of the Opera
House programme are going out this week, which
means that other luminaries of corresponding
candle power are about to arrive.
#* # *
Adelaide shows have been prejudiced by
the fact that the powers below, after a little pre-
liminary skirmishing, fairly took the lid off.
Rickards closed up hastily, and the Tivoli was
pluckily invaded by an Andrew Hodge co. (from
Innamincka and Wattle Plat), which tackled the
sorrows of Little Eva. Dampier, at the Royal,
evidently agreed with a fellow-dramatist that you
cannot hold a fire in your hand by thinking on
the frosty Caucasus. At any rate, he gave up
“The Exiles of Siberia,” which had been billed,
and has relied on a mere “Black Flag.’ Per-
haps he thought the expensive Siberian scenery
would melt.
The Wild Cat Column.
N.S.W. is offering over 4 per cent, in London
for a £2,000,000 redemption loan, and, even then, doesn’t
venture to ask for the money for more than 10 years ; in
other words, it is to come in well ahead of the £12,820,200
which falls due in 1918, and the £16,695,065 which has to
be provided for shortly after that. It’s well enough to
make the new loans short dated provided that the State
resolutely sets itself forthwith to live honestly, and pay
its way, and wipe out the black smudge against its name,
because, in that case, the sooner it gets the chance to
benefit by the better terms that will then be available the
better ; but, if the State is going to drift on into debt, as
hitherto, then the short-dated loan, and the multiplica-
tion of appeals to the public, simply increase the chances
of a failure and a smash some day.
But the loan troubles are small troubles this
year compared with what are coming in the next three.
This list shows the position :
1906. 1906. 1907. 1908.
N.S. Wales .. £2,903,800 £1,224,900 £5,276,218 £3,090,800
Victoria .. 50,000 2,233,800 5,050,000 2,025,000
Queensland .. nil nil nil nil
8. Australia .. 833,225 370,825 1,333,075 2,208,150
Westralia .. 17,600 nil nil nil
Tasmania .. 286,196 237,631 177,628 469,367
Maoriland .. 1,950,700 2,124*766 1,866,800 1,113,688
N.S. W. Treasurer Carruthers says he was advised by cable
in November that unless expenditure was reduced the
new loan would be a failure. ' Joseph’s reply to that was
the figure-juggling referred to last week. When the fact
soaks in that there has been juggling, and that the
Reform crowd hasn’t reformed worth two cents, and that
the improvement in the position is almost entirely due to
improved railway returns, the result of an extra-good
harvest, the future Treasurer will have to argue hard
with Cohen before the bill is renewed. Cohen isn’t a
person whom you can rely upon catching more than once
with a juggle and a broken promise.
» * * *
Of the 280 pastoral leases in the N.S.W. hack-
country, rentals of which the Western Lands Commission
has just reduced wholesale, about 140 are held absolutely
by the big mortgage and land co.’s—most of them
absentees. Over 60 are held by the banks. How many
of the balance of 80 are mortgaged up to the hilt or there-
abouts is not stated ; but practically the whole of the
Western division has fallen into the hands of the mort-
gagees, and most of the mortgagees wish it hadn’t. For
the last couple of years all these lessees have been paying
a provisional rent, which totals about £65,000 more than
the rent now fixed ; so that not only will the State in
future get £65,000 less than hitherto, but many lessees
w-on’t have to pay anything at all for some years, having
overpaid largely during the provisional rent period.
Treasurer Carruthers didn’t make any provision or allow-
ance for this ; he took the rents as they came in, and put
them all to the credit of the year in which they were paid.
Now he will refer to the great falling off in revenue and
the awful difficulties over which he had to triumph,
whereas the fact is that hitherto the revenue was inflated
by stuffing it with rents which covered the future as well
as the present. Still, that’s a small thing to a State which
habitually stuffs the proceeds of land sales into its revenue.
* » * *
Australasian fire and marine insurance co.’s
last year had a much better time than usual, and their
aggregate profits were nearly- 50 per cent, greater than
in the previous year, the figures being
1902 .. .. £284,474
1903 „. .. 261,306
1904 .. .. 385,732
There are now 16 purely Australasian offices doing this
business, an addition of one during the year ; and their
record, as shown in the balance sheets issued during
1904, was as follows
Added R
Profits. Dividends, to Re- *
p.c. £ serves.
South British ..£75,532 30 = 19,388 £56,144 £358,729
New Zealand .. 73,443 15 „ 30,000 39,089 359,782
Nat. of N.Z. .. 38,414" 15 „ 15,000 23,414 199,160
Col. Mutual .. 36,579 8 „ 8,000 28,579 171,127
Victoria .. .. 28,068 36 „ 17,975 10,093 89,401
Aus. Mutual .. 23,313 16J-,, 8,290 10,733 126,954
United .. .. 21,011 12J„ 8,528 12,483 131,739
Standard (M.L.).. 18,307 10 „ 7,500 10,807 67,451
Merc. Mutual .. 17,498 16 ~ 6,067 5,364 86,276
Aus. Alliance .. 17,415 10 ~ 12,500 3,690 94,883
North Queensland 11,057 8,, 4,300 6,757 47,952
Derwent-Tamar.. 8,233 10 ~ 5,250 2,983 67,303
Mutual (Tas.) .. 5,474 8,, 3,150 2,324 29,176
Farmers’ Co-op.
(ML) . .. 4,069 6 „ 3,450 619 13,114
Vic. General .. 3,736 20 „ 4,000 11,973
Commonwealth .. 3,683 8,, 1,120 1,647 1,647
The New Zealand wrote off £4354. The Colonial
Mutual shareholders have actually subscribed only
£37,500 ; the other £62,500 consists of profits capi-
talised. On the amount actually subscribed the
dividend was at the rate of 214 per cent. The
Australian Mutual divided £4290 as a bonus to
policy-holders ; the amount paid to shareholders was 10
p.c. and £4290 as bonus. On the amount actually paid
up (£6250) the Aus. Mutual’s div. was 1321 p.c. The
Mercantile Mut. paid as bonus to polity-holders, £6067 ;
on the £22,500 actually paid up the div.' was 27 p.c. The’
Australian Alliance wrote off £1225. This co. has capital-
ised £75,000 of profits ; on the £50,000 actually paid the
div. was 25 p.c. The Commonwealth, a new office,
charged nothing in profit and loss account to cover unex-
pired risks ; wherefore the reserves stated here are not
true reserves.
Some further particulars regarding the insur-
ance co.’s: —
Expenses Losses P.c. of
p.c. of p.c. of Premiums
Net Pre- Net Pre- Net Pre- left for
miums. miums. miums. Profits,
New Zealand ..£400,707 26-3 61 -3 12'4
South British .. 284,402 24’2 56T 197
Col. Mutual .. 125,1C1 38‘0 35'9 26 1
National N.Z. .. 113,301 31-0 46-5 22‘5
United .. .. 84,468 42'3 40‘0 177
Victoria.. .. 83,216 24'6 47’5 27’9
N. Queensland.. 72,230 36’0 53\5 10’5
Standard, N.Z... 58,882 294 48'0 22-6
Aus. Alliance .. 58,388 28’6 52'6 18’8
Merc. Mutual .. 48,517 60'5 19'0 30‘5
Aus. Mutual .. 35,856 42‘6 12'0 45'4
Derwent-Tamar 20,837 27\5 54-2 18'3
Vic. General .. 10,434 29'4 44'5 26'1
Commonwealth 9,271 20'5 40'5 39’0
Farmers’ Co.-op. 6,185 35'4 40’9 177
Mut. of Tasmania 5,839 41 '0 18’6 40'4
Generally speaking, the offices which do a large marine
business show a low expense but a higher loss rate. The
Australian Alliance shows its departmental figures ; the
marine business cost 21’3 p.c. of premiums and the fire
business 357 p.c., while the marine losses were 71 p.e.
and the fire losses only 38‘4 p.c. Loss rates are also re-
duced by increasing expense rates in order to secure and
watch only selected risks. The Merc. Mutual, Aus. Mutual,
and Mut. of Tas., with the highest expense rates, have the
lowest loss rates. Those offices also show the highest per-
centage of premiums available as profits and to cover
extra unexpired risks. It. looks as though 1 per cent,
spent in supervision saves a good deal more than 1 per
cent, in losses.
In addition to underwriting profits, there are
profits from investments. In comparison with capital,
reserves are usually high, taking the similar figures with
regard to banks as a standard. But the insurance
company has always an enormous contingent liability to
which the ordinary bank is a stranger. It knows approxi-
mately what in ordinary circumstances it will have to
pay out; but it must also be prepared for extraordinary
circumstances, and if it isn’t so prepared it is a fraud of
an insurance office. Australia has had tremendous luck
so far in the way of escaping conflagrations ; but the risk
is still here. To a very great extent, therefore, the office
which does its duty best to the insuring public is the
office which puts most aside to meet the future shock
which it has taken money to provide against. The next
list shows the proportion of profits thus reserved last
year ; also the interest earned on the average of all assets •
Percentage Interest
of Profits Earned on
Reserved. Average Assets.
Colonial Mutual.. .. 78.1 p. c. £2 18 p.c.
South British .. .. 74.3 ~ 4 4 „
North Queensland .. 61.1 ~ 3 2 „
National N.Z 60.9 „ 3 19 „
United 59.4 „ 2 18 „
Standard N.Z 59.0 ~ 3 6,,
New Zealand .. .. 53.2 ~ 310 ~
Australian Mutual .. 46.0 ~ 3 17 ~
Mut. of Tasmania .. 42.4 ~ 4 11 ~
Derwent-Tamar.. .. 36.2 ~ 3 11 ~
Victoria .. .. .. 35.9 ~ 2 18 ~
Mercantile Mutual .. 30.7 ~ 2 15 ~
Australian Alliance .. 21.2 ~ 3 8,,
Farmers’Co op. N.Z. .. 15.2 ~ 4 9,,
Victoria General .. Nil 3 3,,
The most remarkable feature of this table is the high rate
earned by the Maoriland offices. It is impossible to show
how the funds are invested, as few co.’s furnish full
detail ; it is obvious, however, that in Maoriland a large
and profitable mortgage business is done, while in Aus-
tralia many of the co.’s have sunk large sums in offices
which are designed as advertisement as well as invest-
ment. But the fact that they are a good advertisement
doesn’t add much to their value as a more or less liquid
reserve against, say, a conflagration hazard.
• * * *
The Bank of North Queensland
Recovered Divi-
from dend
Debts 2£ p.c. Added
Previously Total and to
Written Rev- Div. Re- Re-
Profits. Off. enue. Tax. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
June, ’9B .. 587 587 587 587
Dec.. ’98.. 1,479 1,479 1,479 2,066
June,’99.. 1,675 881 2,556 2,556 4,622
Dec., ’99 .. 2,700 2,700 1313 1,387 6,009
June,’oo.. 2,557 901 3,458 1313 2,145 8,154
Dec., ’OO .. 2.368 1,540 3,908 1313 2,595 10,749
June,’ol.. 2,424 2,424 1313 1,111 11,860
Dec., ’Ol.. 2,536 2,536 1313 1,223 13,083
June, ’O2 .. 2,038 2,038 1313 725 13,808
Dec., ’O2 .. 2,007 680 2,687 1313 1,374 15,182
June,’o3.. 2,153 2,153 1313 840 16,022
Dec., ’O3 .. 2,408 2,408 1313 1,095 17,117
June, ’O4 .. 2,251 2,251 1313 938 18,055
Dec., ’04.. 2,421 2,421 1313 1,108 19,163
Nothing in Queensland makes much progress nowadays;
still the North Queensland certainly isn’t moving back,
but, instead, is strengthening itself by putting aside, in
proportion to its profits, more than -almost any other
bank in Australia. On the total of shareholders’ funds
(capital £lOO,OOO and reserves), its earnings for some time
past have been :
June, 1901 .. £4 7 6 p.c. June, 1903 .. £3 14 8 p.c.
Dee., 1901.. 410 8 „ Dec., 1903.. 4 3 0 „
June, 1902 .. 312 1 „ June, 1904 .. 316 11 „
Dec., 1903.. 313 7 ~ Dec., 1904.. 4 2 0 „
These are not high figures ; undoubtedly they could be
made higher if the bank’s conservative policy were eased
a bit. In coin and bullion, which isn’t earning anything
(except, probably, public confidence), it maintains no less
than 23 per cent, of all liabilities to the public and the
Treasury ; in liquid assets, including,coin, it holds over 42
percent. When things show a turn’in Queensland, it
certainly won’t be necessary to hold this proportion in
coin, however desirable it may still be to maintain a high
proportion of other liquid assets ; and it’s just a question
whether things haven’t taken the necessary turn already.
Other movements in the 12 months show up in this way :
Dec., 1903. Dec., 1904. ;
Deposits .. .. £269,269 £312,382 Inc. £43,113
Bills Payable, &c. .. 70,378 48,800 Dec. 21,578
Liquid Assets .. 121,110 152,319 Inc. 31,209
Advances, &c. .. 311,713 303,829 Dec. 7,884
Premises .. .. 25,254 25,510 Inc. 256


t
Tramways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
IP INTERESTED, write
often Means the Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation,
The Central Mining & Tramway Appliances Prop., Ltd.,
64 PITT=ST., SYDNEY. nelbourne Office; 504 Little Collins=street.
A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle,
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch,
SOLE AGENT FOR
“NO KOFF” Liquorice.
“ DR. NEUBERG’S” 100% Precipitated Cream.
“STAGHORN BRAND” Australian Size and Glue,
“SUN BRAND” Bombay Chutney.
“BLACK EAGLE” Acetic Acid.
It looks from this as though the bank commands more
money than it can find profitable outlets for at present.
* * * *
A.M.P. Society runs now also something
between industrial and ordinary life insurance—a monthly
payments policy, the society collecting the premiums at
t he insurer's work-place. But the extra cost is heavy. The
policy which would cost £2 16s. Sd. per year, premiums
payable quarterly, costs £3 Is. under the new scheme ;
what would cost £lO Os. Bd. with quarterly payments
costs £lO 18s. with monthly payments. The man who
can’t “ save up ” for a quarter no doubt wants insurance
more than anybody, but the poor beggar has to pay
heavily for his incapacity, and then it’s doubtful whether
the extra premium will recoup the society.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co.
(Melbourne): —
Writ- Added
Profits. Dividends. ten to Re- Re-
Off. serves, serves.
June, 1897.. £1757 5 p.c. =£lsoo £257 £44,771
Dec., 1897.. 1705 5 „ „ 1500 205 44,976
June, 1898.. 1722 5 „ „ 1500 222 45,198
Dec., 1898.. 1101 5 „ „ 1500 £42,000 2,799
June, 1899.. 1954 5 „ ~ 1500 454 3,253
Dec., 1899.. 2693 5 „ „ 2250 443 3,696
June, 1900.. 3971 5 „ „ 2250 17211 ~
A.D. and M. Bank shares written up 1400 / ’ '
Deo., 1900.. 3746 5 p.c. =£2250 1496 8,313
June, 1901.. 2795 5 ~ ~ 2250 545 8,858
Dec., 1901.. 2783 6 „ „ 2250 533 9,391
June, 1902.. 2436 5 ~ „ 2250 186 9,577
Dec., 1902.. 3168 5 ~ „ 2250 918 10,495
June, 1903.. 3699 6 ~ ~ 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903.. 3226 5 „ „ 2250 976 12,020
June, 1904.. 6352 5 „ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec., 1904.. 3632 5 „ „ 2250 300 1082 16,204
The co., which has bad £14,000 in Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank deposit receipts, has exchanged £12,000
face value of them for Board of Works 3£ per cent, deben-
tures, and the £3op which the transaction cost by way
of discount on the receipts is shown above as a writing-off.
The transaction still leaves the co. with its £15,000 mort-
gage. The average of profits is well maintained, and
progress has been generally satisfactory :
Dec., Dec., Dec.,. Deo.,
1894. 1900. 1903. 1904.
Commission, &c. ..£6,389 £9,176 £7,988 £8,634
Interest, &c 2,494 649 726 807
Expenses .. .. 6,198 5,611 5,223 5,545
Profit on Funds p.c. .. £3.1.2 £7.14.10 £6.7.8 £6.18.3
Trust Estates .. .. 6,326,343 7,324,006 7,881,720
Expenses per cent, of
Estates .. .. 3/2 2/10 2/10
The interest earnings (apparently net, after paying inter-
est on mortgage) are very low ; on the book-value of the
assets the gross earnings were only just 2 per cent. Pro-
perties and mortgages of the face value of nearly £BO,OOO
have been written'down only £4348. In this respect the
balance-sheet is very unsatisfactory, and it’s astonishing
that so progressive a co. doesn’t have a cleaning-up.
There is talk of changing the name of Burns,
Philp and Co., Ltd., to James Burns and Co., Ltd. But
Philp, though he lias been out of it for years, still has
some warm friends inside, and they are fighting the sug-
gestion. It isn’t much to struggle for, but, then, there
isn’t much left to Philp, these days.
* . * * *
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Carried
Net to Re- De-
Profits. Dividends. serves. ficit.
June, 1898.. £746 5 per cent. = £375 £371 £llO2
Dec., 1898 .. 949 7 ~ ~ „ 525 424 678
June, 1899.. 1071 7 ~ ~ ~ 525 546 132
Reserves.
Dec., 1899.. 1042 7 „ ~ „ 525 517 385
June, 1900.. 941 8 ~ ~ ~ 600 341 726
Dec., 1900.. 1090 8 ~ ~ ~ 600 490 1216
June, 1901... 1113 8 „ ~ ~ 600 513 1729
Dec., 1901 .. 1252 10 ~ ~ ~ 750 502 2231
June, 1902.. 1748 10 ~ „ ~ 750 998 3229
Dec., 1902.. 1391 10 „ ~ ~ 750 641 3870
June, 1903.. 1248 10 ~ ~ ~ 750 498 4368
Dec, 1903.. 1529 10 „ „ „ 750 779 5147
June, 1904.. 1268 10 ~ ~ ~ 750 518 5865
Dec., 1904.. 1503 10 ~ „ ~ 750 753 6418
This remarkably prosperous little co. shows a profit at the
rate of £l4 11s. sd. per cent, per annum on shareholders’
funds ; the only trustee co’s which show better figures are
the Perpetual of Sydney, Perpetual of Dunedin (M.L.), and
Westralian. The trust estates in hand are valued at
£1,016,733 (this co. has begun to adopt the good practice
of showing the position in this matter), and the co.’s
expenses were at the rate of only ss. 2d. per cent, per
annum., of the aggregate value of the trusts. Certainly
this is a higher rate than the largest of the metropolitan
offices show ; but it is low, nevertheless, considering the
work which the trustee co. does. All the capital and
some of the reserves are in Government stock, and that is
a solid thing to be able to say about a trustee co.
* * * . •*
The Sandhurst and Northern District
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Vie.):—
Net Added to Re-
Dec., Profit.. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1895 . £950 6 per cent. =£l2oo £2414
1896 .. 1112 6 „ ~ 1200 2326
1897 .. 1110 5 ~ „ 1000 £llO 2436
1898 ..624 5 „ „ 1090 2060
1899 .. 1174 5 „ „ 1000 174 2234
1900 .. 1273 5 ~ ~ 1000 273 2507
1901 .. 2365 5£ „ ~ 1100 1265 3772
1902 .. 1452 6 „ ~ 1200 252 4024
1903 .. 2386 7 ~ ~ 1400 986 5010
1904 .. 3091 8 „ „ 1600 1491 6501
This is a remarkably fine improvement, mainly due to an
increase in commissions; it isn’t explained, however,
whether this co. adopts the bad plan of taking credit for
the whole corpus commission as it is received, allowing
the ordinary running commission to provide for sub-
sequent cost of administration, for which it is often quite
inadequate. One could be surer about the real value of
trustee co.s’ balance sheets if corpus commission were
abolished in favor of a slight increase in the running com-
mission. The co. appears to have very profitable invest-
ments ; on its total average assets, the return was 51- per
cent., less a small amount spent on improvements, &c.
Of its funds £lO,OOO is in Vic. stock, £6OOO in offices, and
about £9OOO on mortgage. The profit was at the rate of
£l2 7s. Id. per cent, on shareholders’ funds, which brings
the Sandhurst and Northern well up to the front in the
list of profitable trustee co.’s. The amount of estates in
trust is not disclosed, as it is desirable it should be.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co.
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves
Dec., 1898 £l4ll ~ £15,598
June, 1899 1068 7 per cent. = 1050 £lB 15,616
Dec., 1899 1389 7 „ „ 1050 339 15,955
June, 1900 849 7 „ „ 1050 15 754
Dec., 1900 915 7 ~ ~ 1050 15619
June, 1901 498 7 ~ „ 1050 15 067
Dec., 1901 1219 7 „ ~ 1050 169 15,236
June, 1902 701 6 „ ~ 900 15,037
Dec., 1902 1174 6 ~ ~ 900 274 15 311
June, 1903 837 6 ~ „ 900 15 248
Dec., 1903 1395 6 „ ~ 900 495 15’743
June, 1904 986 6 „ „ 900 86 15’829
Dec., 1904 1269 6 ~ ~ 900 369 16,198
The co.’s capital (£30,000) and reserves, as well as £21,000
debentures, are all represented by the Exchange premises,
which gtand at £70,000, nothing having- been written off
that item-for years. In addition- to the debenture lia-
bility, there is also a pretty constant item of unspecified
“ sundry creditors,” now £4764 ; but the former small
overdraft has disappeared. The co.'is doing somethino-
more, though, than earning a not too certain 6 per
cent.; it has lately promoted wool and dairy exhibitions on
its premises, both of which have been educationally
valuable ; and a mining exhibition is mentioned for the
future. In these movements, Mr. O. H. Hayes, the secre-
tary, a man of rare public spirit, has slaved unselfishly
There is room now for a Shocking Example Exhibition—
an exhibition of the things that are manufactured out of
the raw products which we own, and either don’t use at
all or send to others to make up for us. There really
isn’t any reason why the Exchange Co. should be prouder
of a pound of cheese than a yard of calico, and there’s
more to jubilate over in a yard of flannel than a bale of
wool.
» * * •
The North-Western Farmers’ Association,
Ltd. (Tas.), a co-operative concern which seems to have
found out lately that things were not what they seemed
(the association began with a deficit of £6o,' flotation
expenses):—
Added
Written to Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1897.. £220 Nil £220 £l6O
1898.. 290 6 p.c. = £65 225 385
1899.. 887 7£„ ~ 111. 776 1161
1900.. 364 74,, „ 142 222 1383
1901 414 /7|„ „ 175) - 4 1387
IJUI.. 414 -j Bonus 235 /
1902.. 1098 {Bonus = 2531 £s ° 527 1914
1903.. 700 Bonus = 250 \ ~ 195 2109
Loss.
1904.. 191 Nil 1719 199
The directors say, with regard to the writing off, that
“it has not been forced upon them as a result of this
year’s working, but solely to render the balance-sheet
true in every detail.” This is a fairly plain way of saying
that some previous alleged profits have been really bogus
profits—bogus to the extent of £1719. In addition to
the absurdly high dividends paid by this bantling, a bonus
was several times declared, the amount being issued not
in cash but in fully paid shares. Presumably, though the
profit was bogus, being only represented by bad debts,
the shares issued in respect thereof won’t be also reckoned
as bogus, and cancelled, though it is fairly clear they ought
to be. The position now seems to be pretty bad ; the
paid capital is only £3831, including the capital issued
in respect of the bogus profits, and the co. has an over-
draft of £7664, for which the directors have had to give
their personal IO IJ as well, as the co’s. By far the
largest asset is “sundry debtors,” £6666 ; it was appar-
ently from this item that the £1719 was written off ; and
this is always a doubtful asset. The cocky co-operator
nearly always wants big dividends as well as big rebates ;
he wants things at cost price, or a little under, and he
also wants to subsequently draw a 10 p.c. dividend on the
transaction. He wants to score, in short, both as buyer
and as seller; and he can’t do it. And the co. which
professes to show him that he is doing it always runs up
against the hard fact as this one has done.
* * * *
The P. and O. Co. last year received £337,840 in
various Govt, subsidies. The dues paid to the Suez Canal,
of which the British Govt, is the largest shareholder,
reached £332,091 for same period. The dues paid for the
use of the canal far exceeded the subsidy received from
the British Govt. ; so instead of spending money fostering
the mail steamers, the British Govt., as far as the P. and
O. Co. goes, makes a handsome profit, and still poses as
broad-minded and open-handed. Australia could be
extravagantly generous and pay the P. and O. 2d. per
letter to England, provided it charged the Co. 3Jd. per
letter every time the mail-boats passed the Leeuwin.
* * * *
Mount Drysdale, Cobar, is in the warm place
prepared for the co. which pays extravagant dividends
and lets a reserve fund slide. It now proposes to recon-
struct, issuing 5120 shares (one for every 10) carrying a
liability of ss. per share, to be paid up in gradual three-
pences, notwithstanding that there is a standing liability
of some £3OOO. Also, it’s tolerably certain the only
chance of working the mine at a profit is to treat the low-
grade ores, and as this can’t be done without replacing
the old Huntingdon mills with a battery, there seems to
be trouble ahead in this direction. Still, new shares
are likely to be absorbed by old holders ; and if nothing
serious happens to the benevolent scheme, there’s always
the chance of another rich pocket arriving to straighten
out the position.
* * * *
Queen Bee, Cobar, which was lately much dis-
turbed in its mind whether to pay a Xmas dividend or
use the money to duplicate the reverberatories, wisely
decided in favor of latter. December saw' two furnaces
running only half-time through accident, and a return of
just on 20 tons copper ; but January started with a clean
bill, and, bar accidents to machinery, this month’s return
will probably exceed 35 tons. As working expenses don’t
exceed £BOO a month, and there isn’t any large octopus
to grab the profits, it’s quite on the cards that annual
meeting in February will fihd a sixpenny div. waiting.
* * * *
Mount Boppy South, Cobar (N.S.W.), in 8000
shares of £1 each, hasn’t much to show for 12 months’
expenditure beyond opening up to the 200 ft. level, and a
little indefinite exploratory crosscutting. Shareholders
lately decided to 'have mine thoroughly overhauled, and
James Hocking, of Myalls and Peak Hill, who undertook
it, reports that operations .have been carried out irregu-
larly, and evidently without any definite object. He
advises sinking a new shaft to water level, 180 ft. north of
main shaft, and crosscutting to eastern formation at
intervals of 100 ft. “ The value, extent, and character of
the lodes fully warrant a vigorous policy of systematic
development, particularly in depth and to the north.”
Alleged Hockingjs now negotiating for an option over the
property, and is likely to get it.
* * * •
Report of Sulphide Corporation, Broken Hill, to
the middle of 1904 showed a year’s profit of £33,324, before
charging anything- for depreciation or sinking fund ; net
profit after these deductions, £43,507. Co.’s movements
have been erratic
1897 .. Loss' £18,842 1901 .. Profit £73,049
1898 .. „ 10,935't 1902 .. „ 2,927
1899 .. Profit 115,154 1903 .. „ 24,935
1900 .. „ ’ 178,002 1904 .. „ 43,507
Ore treated at mills, 201,541 tons ; profit per ton, 4s. 4d.
This, however, doesn’t show what the co. could work at
if the worst came to the worst. The writings-off, &c.,
are made to equal the expenditure on capital account,
which was heavy ; charging the output with only out-of-
pocket expenses incurred in current production, the pro-
fit was Bs. 3d. per ton. Some of this was, no doubt, made
from treatment of purchased gold ores ; some also from the
sale of “zincs.” This is the only co. which has tackled Aus-
tralian production of metallic zinc ; but the business must
so far have cost the co. dearly. An extensive plant,
erected near Newcastle, has been several times more-or-
less reconstructed, and very little of it is used. The mag-
netic concentrators at the mine produced 22,838 tons of
“ zincs,” but only 1475 tons of them w'ere smelted at the
co.’s works—all the rest were sold to be smelted in
Europe, which, so far as this business goes, means Ger-
many and Belgium. Year after year the co. says it hopes
that it will soon be able to set the industry fairly going ;
year after year it spends thousands, and sometimes tens
of thousands, in experiments and new plant; and year
after year it finds that the less it treats in Australia the
less money it loses. And still a zinc bonus, or State help
in any other shape, isn’t needed !
» * * *
Few Sulphide Corp. figures are moving the right
way
Weekly Weekly Costs Costs
Ore Production Ton Ton Con-
Output. Concentrates. Ore. centrates.
s. d. £ s. d.
1901.. 4217 tons 914 tons 14 10J 3 16 8
1902.. 4822 ~ 985 „ 14 3 3 14 8
1903 .. 4083 „ 811 „ 15 5 4 1 7
1904 .. 4023 „ 769 „ 16 1 4 6 7
The increase is partly due to the increase in the amounts
written off and applied to capital account. The big creep
of a couple of years ago made the main shaft unsafe, and
the cost of the new shaft which became necessary is being
provided by a fixed charge per ton of ore, added to work-
ing charges. In another respect the movement is unsatis-
factory. In 1902 it took 495 tbns of ore to make 100 tons
concentrates; in 1903,593 tons; in 1904,523 tons. Meantime
there has been no corresponding improvement in the
quality of the concentrates. Still, the co. has big possi-
bilities. Without deductions for depreciation or sinking
fund, profits w'ere equal to £3 10s. 6d. per ton of the total
lead output in the concentrates. Lead averaged £ll9s. 9d.
per ton during 1 the co.’s year ; so that, it lead and zinc
remain stead 3% the co. would have to realise less than £8 for
its lead before it would be out of pocket. That leaves a
good margin. As to ore reserves there is no need to worry.-
At present rate of out-turn there is 15 to 20 years’ supply
proved, even allowing for hardly anything below 800 ft.;
and average ore has been struck in an exploratory cross-
cut 200 ft. below that. Then there are already about
1,000,000 tons of zincy middlings, &c., at surface ; and the
co. is attacking these heaps now with an enlarged mag-
netic plant. It is a huge mine, in fact; but it has to carry
a very big capital (550,000 £1 pref. shares and 550,000 15s.
ordinary shares, besides £lOO,OOO in 5 p.c. debentures);
and it handles an ore in the treatment of which, after all
these years, metallurgists are still only groping. Follow-
ing figures show the extraction of the metals by concen-
tration for some time past at the Sulphide Corporation’s
mill and the neighboring B.H. South mill, between which
there is keen rivalry :
Lead Extracted Silver Extracted
p.c. of Contents. p.c. of Contents.
1 ■% ✓ ' V
Sulphide. South. Sulphide. South.
June, 1899 .. 70.41 49.44
„ 1900 .. 68.34 67.39 48.05 50.51
„ 1901 .. 68.34 69.08 48.05 50.24
„ 1902 .. 69.6 70.22 51.00 54.9
„ 1903 .. 68.7 66.57 48.6 48.9
„ 1904 .. 68.3 66.22 47.9 48.81
It is upon the slimes, middlings and tailings, which con-
tain more than half the silver, a third of the lead, and
practically all the zinc, that the magnetic separating
plant is operating in a small way—so far with compara-
tively microscopic results in the matter of profits.
B.H. British output shows some improvement
in values.- But there has been practically m change in
the value of the faces of ore. The improvement in mill
reports results simply from dodging the places where the
refractory rhodonite shows heaviest.
* * * *
A while ago, when the Broken Hill boomkin
was being engineered, there was extra-special snorting at
the suggestion that North shares especially were being
rushed up. The North, it was said, was the very mine
which warranted a rush. To-day men who bought at 365.
are looking round for somebody to buy at 225. 6d. Hardly
a development since that time has been satisfactory ; and
the mill is now hung up a third of its time for want of
ore, though mining is rushed along three shifts daily.
* * * »
J. R. Godfrey, inspector of mines, will take the
management of Block 14. The Melbourne shareholders
and directors have regained control of the co., and this is
one of the early results ; during the years the mine was
under Adelaide control it had a managing director, who
had spent a lifetime qualifying for the post by dealing
in hides and sheepskins. The Mines Inspection branch
can’t keep its good men, and the recent, selection of a
chief inspector from outside the staff w'ill make matters
worse. A while ago another inspector left to take a
Broken Hill management at just double the salary the
State paid ; and since then the co. has thought his
services worth still further promotion and salary.
Godfrey, a Cambridge graduate, had been 14 years in the
service, 12 years as inspector. At Block 14 he will have a
pretty hard row to hoe, for want of funds, for one thing.
* * -Jr *
Statistics re lead production are not too com-
forting to the people who have lately been putting a
price on some Broken Hill shares twice as great as the
co.’s have paid altogether in dividends during the past 17
years. The total production (1903) was 910,000 long tons,
an increase of nearly 50 per cent, in ten years. German
statistics place Australia fifth among lead producing
countries, with an output of 93,000 tons. Mexico has
95,000 tons, Germany 141,000, and Spain 172,000. U.S.A.
leads with 266,000 long tons. N.S.W. Mines Department
gives the lead contents of Australian concentrates shipped
as 29,706 tons ; if this were deducted from the German
production and added to the Australian, the latter would
exceed the former.
* * * *
Latest re the “ influential European ” co. formed
to take up diamond-mining at Bingera (N.S.W.) is that
registration (in 300,000 £1 shares, 200,000 issued) has been
shifted from England to Guernsey—the place where a co.
can go and subsequently do pretty well anything. A
£300,000 co. to prospect for diamonds is a piece of humor
in itself. The worst of this sort of humor is that it
generally means tragedy for some poor fools.
» * * *
Ballarat compares with Bendigo for last year :
Yield. Dividends.
Ballarat .. .. 51,5250 z. .. £21,600
Bendigo .. .. 248,0000 z. . 367,000
Ballarat never gives the total calls made. If it did it
would show the inwardness of the mining position. What
kills the district is (1) the proprietary co.’s that exact
tribute even from call-making lack of scien-
tific methods ; (3) the lack of support given by residents
to local shows ; and (4) the readiness to “ take in ” out-
siders by local mining men. Last cause has operated
more to bring about a withdrawal of capital than any-
thing else.
* * * *
Victorian gold yield for 1904 was 821,0170 z.,
against 822,4240 z. in 1903. These figures bring the total
yield of the State to 67,557,4530 z., worth, roughly,
£270,000,000.
Here are 1904 working results for the two biggest
East Australian goldfields :
Surplus of
Calls. Divs. Divs.
Bendigo .. ..£168,094 £367,896 £199,801
Charters Towers .. 77,625 400,109 322,483
Twenty-four Bendigo co.’s paid divs. against 20 at Charters
Towers. Not only did the Queensland field beat the Ben-
digo total, but in the Queen Cross Beef, which paid
£220,000 in divs., they had the most profitable mine, as
South New Moon only 1 reached £120,000. But Towers’
prospects have slumped horribly, while Bendigo’s are
still good, thanks largely’to the field’s grit as a call-payer
and prospector. T
* * * *
Star of the West, Mack’s Creek (Vic.), has a
reputation built up on crushings of 349 tons, from which
6670 z. were obtained. This return put co. in funds ;it
also sent shares to over 20s. and furnished cash for the
No. 3 tunnel. Some of the originals did well out of the
scrip. They got it for a few pence, and, like sensible men,
sold out anywhere up to top rates. Shoot of gold appears
to be under 150 ft. in length at No. 2 tunnel, where it
splits into eastern and western formations, latter ajjpa-
rently carrying best gold. There are signs that the reef is
narrowing in western leg. Merriri, C.E., estimated that
about 2000 tons are proved above No. 2 tunnel. As he is
very careful, this estimate may be taken as correct,
though wiseacres double the' figures. Winze from
No. 1 tunnel went down in rattling good stone,
as 130 tons gave 2980 z., and shot shares forward.
Concern, then, has promise, but it is folly to put it at
more than the prospecting stage ; 300 tons do not make
a mine, and the battery wants to do a lot more work
before the stock should fascinate. Public will be invited
to buy at an early date, but had better wait. Half-a-
dozen pup floats have been promoted round the Star, but
have not yet done anything.
* * * *
Black Horse, Egerton (Vic.), had a good repu-
tation, for, like its neighbor, which it has since swallowed,
it paid good divs. ; but to-day it is a sink for calls. Chief
supporter is one Vickery—not Ebenezer, of Sydney, but
a cute old Bendigo and Melbourne speculator, who now
owns a couple of stations up Tamworth way. Co. is
practically abandoning work at Black Horse mine to try
and pick up gold in the Egerton lease. Quartz is plenti-
ful, but, as is the case with so many mines in the Ballarat
district, gold does n’t seem to carry down to depth.
Mining man of the Argus has got on the soft
side of Rickard, of the Mixing and Engineering Journal,
of New York. Latter’s latest kindly word is to allude to
him as “that eminent mining authority.” Now, what
can we do for you ?
* * * «
The Vic. cyanide royalties should cease this
year. Four years ago the Govt, bought the Vic. patent
for £20,000, and let it out to the mining co.’s, with the
understanding that royalties should cease when they
totalled £20,000 plus interest. So far they have returned
about £16,266.
* * * *
Westralian gold yield for 1904 was 2,373,0200 z.,
which wa563,3000z. less than in 1903. This is only the second
time since Coolgardie was discovered that a retrograde
movement has taken place. Curiously, the shortage was
almost exactly the same in each case, the output for 1900
being 63,0000 z. below that for 1899—the fireworks year.
A dozen of the bigger mines show a heavy falling off'
while very few show any increase ; had it not been for
the widening of the area of production, the shortage
would have been much larger. Divs. for the year tot up
£2,050,559, nearly £9OOO ahead of 3903, and only £15,500
behind 1899, when L.V. Consols-distributed £625,000. So
far as can be judged, the retrogression is temporarily
checked, and it is most likely the output will slightly
increase.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold output by districts: —
Goldfield. 1903. 1904.
East Coolgardie .. 1,358,374 .. 1,363,576
Murchison .. .. 245,850 .. 260,745
North Coolgardie .. 198,820 168,871
Mt. Margaret .. 225,192 .. 218,952
East Murchison .. 102,903 .. 99,794
Coolgardie .. .. 90,854 .. 74,392
N.E. Coolgardie .. 47,733 .. 39,965
Dundas .. .. 41,553 .. 39,702
Yilgarn .. .. 26,856 .. 35,889
Broad Arrow .. 27,665 .. 25,103
Peak Hill .. .. 34,924 .. 20,909
Pilbarra .. .. 14,220 .. 8,293
West Pilbarra .. 6,481 .. 6,170
Phillips River .. 8,941 3,570
Yalgoo .. ~ 1,743 .. 3,545
A few small districts made up the trifling balance.
Twelve districts have reduced their output by 94,0000 z.
while four have increased theirs by 31,000.
* * \ *
The British Australasian (London) July 14,
1904 : “ The strong position of the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society is sufficiently illustrated by the figures
in the report for 1903. The addition to the funds during
the year, was £107,965, bringing the total funds up to
£2,814,795.”*
* * * *
The No. 1 Centrifugal Pumping Plant on the
pioneer tin mine, Tasmania, has made another excellent
year’s record, the reportss hewing 1,016,300 cubic yards of
drift pumped for a return of 1064 tons of tin at a total
cost of 6 fid. per yard, raised 85 feet high to the sluice
boxes. This plant was constructed by the Austral Otis
Engineering Company, South Melbourne, who have also
lately completed the No. 2 plant of larger size. This
plant should be in operation in a short time, when the
output of the mine will be considerably .increased. The
plant has worked splendidly throughout the period, the
delays for stoppages of machinery amounting to less than
1 per cent, of the total working hours of the year, which
reflects credit both on the builders and management.*
* * * *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King-streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting; it consists of a twenty horse-power gas-engine
belted to a “ Ganz ” twelve kilowatts dynamo, a “ Ganz ”
switch-board containing all the measuring and controlling
instruments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The
generating machinery runs continually during the day
time at its full capacity and highest efficiency, the surplus
current being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies
all necessary electricity required during the night; and it
forms also a substantial reserve in case of accidents.
Compared with the previous method of working, a saving
of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant, the
concentrators for which were the Austral Otis Engineering
Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh-streets,
South Melbourne, as sole Australian agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.*
* * * »
The Borough Council, Wanganui, N.Z., passed
the following resolution on Nov. 29th; “ That this
Council desires to compliment Mr. Mestayer, C.E., on the
successful completion of the Wanganui-Okehu Water-
works scheme, at a cost of £60,000, the work being com-
pleted within the estimate. The council also desires to
express its appreciation of the Mephan Ferguson steel
pipes, and notes with satisfaction that all the joints are
sound, although upwards of 4600 were used over a length
of eighteen miles, in some places having to withstand a
pressure of 2881bs. to the square inch.”*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Economical Gold Mining.—Low grade ores
and high cost in fuel and wages have made it imperative
that managers and engineers should reconstruct upon
more economical lines. Heretofore the boiler plant was
given little consideration, but the introduction of the
Hornsby “upright” water tube boiler having demons-
trated great economy, and with safety under indifferent
conditions of feed water, it is now superseding other types.
In W.A. these boilers are worked with an economy not
heretofore known on those fields, and in Queensland over
2500 h.p. is on order for the Mount Morgan Gold Mining
Co. It is cleaned in one fourth the time of other boilers
and has no tube troubles. Boilers may be seen in opera-
tion in Sydney and Melbourne. R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Sussex-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favored by-
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Co.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
mines, water works, and electric supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity,
there being now 68 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures speak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines.*
* * * »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special-, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th = 0.005 milligramme = l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-strcet, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
*„» * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* » * »
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
everj- important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited. *
To Prospectors And Others.—The Curtin-
Davis Proprietary Co. N.L. is prepared to purchase
approved mining prouerties. Particulars to, R. E.
Tweddell, Legal Manager, 31 Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* * * «
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, should have a better
year ahead, if official reports can be relied on. “At 575 ft.
main lode has been driven on 350 ft. ; ore runs from 3ft.
to 7ft. wide, while values range from 25dwt. to over 30z.”
Such developments should make the mine one of the best.
Unfortunately many of the reports issued as to this mine
have been exaggerated. For instance, official estimates
of reserves a year ago figured out gold contents at 12dwt.,
whereas returns have only averaged 6 to 7dwt , and
November’s figures were only sdwt. Morrison, or Boulder
Deep Levels, lode is about the same width as the main lode,
but values, on the whole, are very poor and unpayable.
Morrison shaft has been fitted with new surface equip-
ment, and exploring is to be energetic. Mine has always
been patchy, but lode seems to be more regular in
settled country.
(Continued on page 30).


HOLIDAY SUITS.
“ORIENT”
READY TO WEAR
Crash Suits
(2 PIECE SUITS)
POST FREE to any P.O.
in the State.
SPECIAL
VALUE-
WELL CUT
and SHRUNK
PAVI P JON ES ai)d CO.,
6eorgc apd Barrack Streets, Sydosy*
wm
1
I
.cLEBP-ATEt) W»i
PVi
rHt.
(OK SET
EXQUISITE MODELS, j* PERFECT FIT,
js GUARANTEED WEAR. J* J*
THE NEW_^
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable (coin Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
While the Australian during Xmas was
putting water on his whiskers to keep himself
from catching fire, the Maori lander was looking
round for-his heaviest rug with which to guard
against an Arctic blast. Fires were in the same
request as whisky hot. Snow fell at Hanmer
(out of Christchurch) on Xmasday.
In a recent fatal case of snakebite in South
Gippsland, the sufferer drank a bottle and a half
of whisky during his 17-miles drive to the doctor’s
surgery, where ho was lifted from the buggy in a
comatose state from which he never rallied. The
medico had to first tackle the deadly whisky with
a stomach pump ; and strychnine injections with a
plentiful supply of electric battery followed, but
there was never the faintest sign of returning
consciousness. The man, of course, died of the
whisky. He might have survived the bite, but
the bottle made him a sure corpse.
♦ * * *
The great siege of Port Arthur closed with
a small horse incident—not with Stoessel’s body
under the ruins of the last wall, his face towards
the gun-flash, the last remnants of his force lying
in bayonet-torn heaps. The humorless vanity of
fighting generals is amazing. Nogi and Stoessel
bowing in a human shambles, talking airily of
each other’s mokes, is a theme for a Voltaire. It
suggests the pea-nut man carrying on business
with energetic fortitude on Judgment Day.
THE DEAR CATS.
MAY: “Ever been jilted, Edith?”
EDITH: “ No, dear. What does it feel like?”
From Groperdom :
Compare Hyde Park in Sydney with Queen’s Park in
Perth—each in the heart of its respective city. Hj'de
Park, full of frowsy loafers of unclean aspect and evil
blasphemy; the flower-beds surrounded with iron-spiked
railings : uncouth notice-boards projecting at each corner,
threatening dire penalties should one dare to pluck a
flower. Queen’s Park, the flower-beds masses of gorgeous
bloom, unprotected by even a modest shingle; no
threatening notices, not even the customary “Keep off
the grass.” The city folk, conspicuous by the absence of
the loafer element, lie about smoking and reading ; if
they feel inclined for a “ button-hole,” there is no one to
say them nay. There is one notice exhibited : “ This
park is the property of the people, and they are respect-
fully requested to protect their heritage from wanton
damage.”
Queensland’s Agent-General, Horace Tozer,
has allowed the British worship of the stray nigger
potentate to get on his nerves, and burst out the
other day :
During the seven years he had been the accredited
representative of Queensland in this country he had never
been introduced either to the present or to the late Prime
Minister, and he had not been more than a dozen times
to the Colonial Office, one of those occasions being when
he rushed there to offer the help of stalwart Queenslanders
to fight the battle of the Empire in Soutli Africa. When
a black king, ruling over fifty or sixty thousand people,
came to England, however, he was received with a marked
amount of etiquette and attention, which contrasted
strangely with the treatment he and his colleagues had
obtained.
It is a fact that London makes more fuss over a
Zulu or a Dahomey chief, with a picturesque
parrot-tail in his fuzzy hair, than to “the colo-
nies ; ” and it is not a bad thing that it is so, for
fussy interference is the last thing that Australia,
at least, wants. But as regards the Agents-General,
are theynpt contributory causes to the negligenceof
which complaint is made? Tozer artlessly admits
to “ rushing over ” to the Colonial Office to offer
stalwart Queenslanders to burn down farms in
S’Africa. Palpably the rush was for the lime-
light for himself. Otherwise, there was no need
to rush over. A sixpenny telegram would have
fulfilled all the business necessities of the position.
A more or less distinguished Australian who
visited London a while ago tells an illuminating
story of the Agent-General for his State. Ihe
Australian asked the A.-G. to present him to the
Secretary of State for the Colonies, and the A.-G.
joyfully consented, rigged himsa.f up in -some
sort of a uniform, and dragged the visitor along.
Evidently he wished to impress his fellow-Aus-
tralian with a notion of his zeal and importance,
for he opened the interview by “ragging” the
Minister soundly for sending to his office only
three tickets for the opening of the British Par-
liament. “My great state,” he declared, “ has a
population of —. The British Empire s total
population is . The number of seats available
for visitors at the opening of Parliament is -.
Now, on a population basis, my State is
entitled to at least eleven seats. Why,
me lud, Tasmania, with its insignificant
population, got three tickets. I demand, me lud,
fairer treatment for my great State.” The unfor-
tunate English Minister tried to suggest that Par-
liament was not opened on a population basis, but
it did nothing to check the flow of grievance. He
had to finally dole out some more “paper ” for the
free show, and then the Agent-General departed,
feeling that he had vindicated the honor of his
great State.
* * * *
Melbourne’s “ houses of pleasure ” have
been lately receiving the much-needed attentions
of revenue detectives on the look-out for sly grog-
selling. One of these excise men, who seems to
have had a rorty time while doing the Common-
wealth’s duty, passed himself off as the “Rev.
John Jobseph,” a Methodist clergyman. The
Wussleyans are, naturally, greatly shocked. It is
a pretty grave reflection on “ the cloth ” when a
detective, anxious to put on a disguise that would
be accepted as natural in the haunts of vice, gets
up as a clergyman.
“Robbo ” : Yarned, the other day, with a
police officer who knows the “ Rocks ” (Sydney)
by heart. Asked whether the once notorious
Rocks’ push had passed away. “ Well, they have
grown up,” he told me. “ They are still there, or
near by, but nowadays are mostly decent married
men and good average citizens. They didn’t
arrive at sense early, but they arrived. They
were always more wild than wicked, more riotous
than ruffian. Perhaps the drink is better, too ;
certainly, there’s less of it. The police rarely
have a brick heaved at them now, and when they
do, it generally comes from some casual visitor.
And it’s much the same all round. There are
still a few ‘ pushes ’ in other parts, but they hardly
count in the way of organised ruffianism.”
A QUESTION OF POINTS.
AUNTIE : “ You girls think yourselves very smart nowadays. But I could give you a few
points. ”
From the Riverina, where the bush fires
swept the land on New Year’s Day :
The fire started late on Sunday afternoon on Ringwood
station, where the grass was as high as a table. The sheep
couldn’t keep it down ; it grew green and lush with the
late spring rains, and before the fire it was as white as a
tablecloth. The men were all away at Yarrawonga races ;
when they got back on Monday night it was all over. The
homestead was saved, but for the rest—well, it was simply
a wall of fire 40ft. high and sometimes 20 miles wide,
sweepimr along at about 30 miles an hour before the north
wind. Birds, rabbits, snakes—all were swept up in its
red jaws. A sight from the verandah of Kentucky home-
stead was five foxes, breaking from their blazing cover
like five scorched devil 3, with their brushes standing out
like burnt sticks. They came straight past the house,
through a flock of cackling fowls and into some scrub on
the left. Two minutes afterwards the fire swept that scrub,
too. but the foxes never came out. You could not walk
along the track of the Tabletop fences—the fences them-
selves were gone—for a week afterwards, for the stench of
dead rabbits. And the sheep—God have mercy ! I came
away on the Friday after, and some of the poor brutes
were still staggering about —blind, their eyes blistered out,
their hoofs burnt off, their wool a mass of black cinder.
There hadn’t been time to kill them. The lucky ones
were the dead. Curious how partial the fire was. Many
of the vineyards around Corowa were laid in ashes, others
were unscathed. One farmer, a few miles out, had just
cut and bagged 3010 bags of wheat ; he lost all but 300. A
mile away another cultivator had a 30-acre paddock of
wheat standing alongside the road ; next to that was a
strip of fallow, then a 100-acre paddock of wheat; one
“ arm ” of the fire took every ear of this latter ; the other
sweot up the road, clearing the grass as close to the fence
as if burnt off purposely, and left the 30-aere patch un-
touched, save for a slight scorching at the edge.
* * * *
One result of the £5O fine imposed on a
N.S.W. J.P., for illegally witnessing an affidavit,
and the dictum of the Crown Law Office that a
J.P. must understand the contents of a docu-
ment witnessed by him, will be increased in-
comes for commissioners for affidavits —appointed
by the Supreme Court. Commissioners in the
city are entitled to charge Is. for an affidavit and
6d. for every exhibit, and sometimes there are ten
or a dozen exhibits. In the cquntry districts the
commissioner’s fee is 2s. 6d. The honorary J.P.
doesn’t receive anything for his autograph.
* * * *
Melbourne analyst Percy Wilkinson on
ptomaines (in Melbourne nowadays most of the
talk is of ptomaines and butter commissions) :
There are many ptomaines, but only a few are poisonous.
They are the product of bieterial work on substances con-
taining nitrogen, and uuv appear or disappear at any
stage. They cannot be detected by the smell. Meat
which is putrid may possibly be innocuous, while meat
that smells quite fresh and sweet may contain deadly
poison. Their effects may di Ter through the personal
idiosyncrasy ; whereas some persons can eat putrid meat
—as high game—without injury, to others it is death.
Tasmania has a memory of the long and
lagging kind. An old man, who had been a
recipient of charity in Launceston some years ago,
had received a sentence of 24 hours for being
impudent to the secretary of the Benevolent
Society and. had escaped imprisonment by walking
out of the city, was pounced upon by the police at
Devonport and forwarded to Launceston to do liis
sentence. The old chap had been working steadily
for the two or three years since his horrible crime,
and was turned out of the Launceston gaol with
the intimation that he could walk back to Devon-
port if he liked. A Good Samaritan, however,
paid his railway fare.
The outback man is not too much troubled
by Faith-belief. A Western cocky, who signed to
deliver 400 bushels of wheat at the end of January,
was approached by an insurance agent, who
wanted to insure the crop, which was still stand-
ing. The cocky declined to do business. “ Why,
if the crop was burned, it would be a Judgment of
Heaven upon you for your stubbornness,” said the
agent, after all attempts had failed. “ I’ll chance
Heaven’s wrath,” said the cocky, “ I’ve ploughed
four furrows round the paddock.”
MARRIEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My wife and l were best of friends
Before we wed, and now
Our bickering but seldom ends ;
Each simple little thing offends,
And any foolish matter lends
Occasion for a row.
When once a week I met my May,
We thought we were in Heaven.
Alas ! how many hapless stray,
Who might be friends for one good day,
And in the matrimonial way
Are enemies for seven !
E.
A FAILURE OF FAITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He owned a farm, his name was Biggs,
A German on the border line.
His speciality was pigs.
His crops of hogs were very fine.
From Adelaide to Hay, I’ve heard,
Biggs’ bacon was a household word.
He held the creed of Dowie once,
And much admired that fat Elect
Declaring but a dolt and dunce
Each member of a rival sect.
His faith might save him many bills
For patent medicines and pills.
Last month, the grinning neighbors say
The air at Biggs’ was simply thick
With smells that rolled in proud array—
With odors that would catch and stick.
And Biggs sat where his hams were piled,
Lamenting like a little child.
When men approached him to invite
His confidence, he beat his head.
“ Ach, Himmel! I vos ruined kvite.
Elijah vos a rogue ! ” he said.
“ A liar, too. Ten thousand tamns 1
I tried dot faith cure mit mine hams 1 ”
VIC.
EDYSON.


AU
TJITION
in Shorthand, Bookkeeping,
Engineering, &c. Coaching
for all Publip Exams. Home
Study Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business
College, Sydney,
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
THE BEST IN* Tf
STARCH.
E WORLD.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KIINTGr STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention!
The British Government Committee that
inquired into the case of Adolf Beck (the unfortu-
nate who did seven years’ hard in an English gaol
for the crime of a man whom he resembled) has
made in its report one highly sensible recommen-
dation :
That the anomaly of “pardoning” a man who never
ought to have been convicted should be abolished, and
that the conviction should be quashed and an acquittal
entered on the record instead.
For “anomaly” read “an insolent addition of
insult to injury” and the paragraph is correct
about this barbarous survival of kingly tyranny.
The old theory was that the King could keep any-
one in prison if he liked, and that it was only out
of his exceeding great mercy that he let anyone
out. And many, such old trappings hang round
the neck of modern democracy.
•** * •
A beautiful snake story comes from Vic-
toria, where a married couple, formerly of the
1 )owie persuasion, have been introducing a new
Faith-cure religion on their own. Wandering
around in the name of the Lord they captured a
black snake, and the lady put out her bare arm to
be bitten, for the edification of several bystanders,
who doubted whether the new Faith-cure would
work in a test case. She casually remarked that
Elijah Howie had never been “game” to put his
doctrines to a similar proof. Then comes a break
of two days in the continuity of the yarn. When
next heard of the lady was not dead, but convales-
cent, suffering from swollen arm. She had applied
no antidote except Eaith, she told a policeman,
without attempting to explain why the poison
had lieen able to get going pretty strong before
Faith saved the situation. More is likely to be
heard of the couple. If the lady persists in
gathering black snakes by the wayside there may
be a vacancy for a husband presently. Faith for
the goose is not bound to be Faith for the gander.
0 * * •
Sachse, the Vic. Minister for Education,
complains that the department is put to a serious
annual expense in providing substitutes pro tern.
for the many young women teachers who suffer
from anaemia. The anaemic State-school teacheress
grows more frequent every year—especially in
country districts; and Sachse, as the official
parent of all these pallid spinsters, is seeking the
best medical advice on the subject. Matrimony
—the time-honored cure for anaemia—being quite
out of the question, medical science will be called
upon to suggest some other means of providing a
Timely Tonic for Tired Teachers.
*** * *
“ Mars ” : As an argument on the sending
of missionaries to China :
Here is a special case with a general moral: In a little
known part of Victoria is a valley shut in by rough hills.
Through this, long ago, a stock route led. Here a couple
named (say) Henderson planted themselves and kept an
accommodation house and grog shanty. They reared a
numerous family. When the stock took an easier road,
the little place was left in forgotten solitude. Too listless
to seek new fields, the Hendersons stayed there. The
fledglings gradually left the nest. Charlotte was long-
headed. She selected 100 acres of the richest flat. Jim,
a horse-breaker, married her. Susan got married—married
in court. Jenny started her family first. Then she got
married —to another fellow. Jenny’s husband could live
for three half-crowns per week, which the other man pro-
vided, so he didn’t see the force of staying single with
double expense. George married for love, and took up a
selection near by. Bill, his brother, went to live with him.
When George and Bill quarrelled, it was the missus who
was to blame. She had such a careless way of forgetting
which mat) was her husband. Tom saved a parson’s fee.
He took charge of another man’s cast-off and lived on a
plot of ground held under a miner’s right. The others
lived in similar styles, ekeing out miserable lives by trap-
ping ’possums and shooting wallabies, rearing tribes of
children to a life of squalor, laziness and vice, with an
object lesson in behavior to copy in the shape of the
grandmother of the settlement, who thus late in life,
separated from her husband and topped up a splendid
record of birth-rate with an infant fathered by a stray
miner. Could not some of our parsons leave China to
others and work here ? There is a broad field.
THE VICEREGAL INSECT.
“ O. Fweddy—my poor Fweddy — there’s a mosquito
on your pwoboscis!”
“ For goodness sake don’t touch him, Algy; I’ve
been watching him the whole afternoon. He's
just come off Lord Northcote!”
The Bulletin is constantly hearing now-
adays of erstwhile friendly families in N.S.W.
which have been utterly estranged by the Dill
Macky insectarianism. Mrs. Dooley used to be
good neighbors with Mrs. McDuff. They would
lend and borrow an occasional bit of tea
or half a loaf of bread, and mingle their
children together in amicable measles when an
epidemic was on so that “ they could all get them
together.” Now they don't play speaks—one
takes a weekly gloat over thrippence worth of
malevolent sectarianism ; the other buys a
penn’orth and gets it just as strong if a little
cruder in expression. And when Mrs. Dooley
passes Mrs. McDuff it is with a sniff, and Mrs.
McDuff expresses publicly her opinion that Mrs.
Dooley is benighted. To interfere with the
freedom of the press is a serious matter, but there
is such a profound public danger in the constant
dissemination of slanders and half-truths calculated
to provoke breaches of the peace that the State
may yet have to face the unpleasant duty of
restraining the organs of religious bigotry
“ Caro ” on flower perfumes and the color
sense:—
Pick a violet at sunset, when all flower scents are the
sweetest. Shut your eyes and scent it slowly. It should
suggest a warm, not bright, blue—a bit of windless sky
over a hot sea. The queen variety approaches nearly to
it, but the deep purples are unfaithful utterly. Saunter
on through the garden walk, and lift that deep crimson,
wine-warm rose, with the petals of crushed velvet. If
you held it burdened with its languid scent before a blind,
most prosaic human, he would tell you it was red or wine-
colored. Bury your face in a bunen of carnations and
you will see a prismatic glory of light, and as their keen
scent penetrates your veins you, if your imagination be
not utterly dead, will become slightly and puzzlingly
cognizant of a hidden and alien sense. Mignonette is the
absinthe of flowers, strange green crystals of scent, sooth-
ing and subtle. The old-fashioned wall-flowers are faithful
too, with their intricate smell of spiced wood, suggestive
of cedars of Lebanon ; they are the only flowers to be
picked at noon. Geraniums, hibiscus, sunflowers, nas-
turtiums, are among- those whose scent is wholly color-
less. Hyacinths are too clamorous ; who could mistake
the clammy white bloom for the stained purple? As for
tuberoses, we shudder, remembering our dead. Then
there are the unfaithful among the elect. Camelias,
cornflowers, poppies, pansies (with the scent of running
water), daisies, and most of the bulbs (flowers of vanity).
There are millions of blooms, with their legions of odors,
and the study is a charming one. But before you forget,
drive down a vista of bush when the wattles are blooming
and it is gold, gold, gold, till your senses and your soul
are surfeited with it.
* » * *
Bunny seems to have been responsible for
nearly all the recent bush fires, and yet the land-
holder has primarily himself to blame; only the land-
holder who is to blame isn’t, unfortunately, always
the same landholder who has to suffer the damage.
Any low-waged noodle is reckoned competent
enough to mix the phosphorised pollard used for
rabbit-poisoning, with the result that it is laid
about the paddocks in a semi-dissolved state, only
awaiting an extra hot day or the tread of a beast
to start it into flame. Some day pastoralists and
farmers will recognise that phosphorus isn’t the
kind of commodity that can be handled by all
sorts of incompetents, and that cheap labor isn’t
an unmixed blessing.
* * * *
Now that Melbourne has at last got its
Queen’s Jubilee Fever Hospital open nobody will
use it. It takes in scarlet fever and diphtheria,
yet, though 40 such cases were reported in Mel-
bourne last month as being treated privately, the
hospital had a staff idly twiddling its thumbs and
brushing the dust off 35 vacant beds.
* * * *
Very quaint is the form of apprenticeship
to the sea. After a rigmarole of preamble, it pro-
vides that during his term the apprentice
His masters faithfully shall serve, their secrets keep,
their lawful commands everywhere gladly do ; he shall do
no damage to his said masters, nor see it done by others,
but to his power shall tell or forthwith give notice to h s
s lid masters of the same ; the goods of his said masters he
shall not waste, nor lend them unlawfully to any ; he
shall neither buy nor sell without his master’s leave ;
taverns, inns, or alehouses he shall not haunt; at cards,
dice tables, or any other unlawful games he shall not
play ; matrimony he shall not contract; nor from the
service of his said masters day or night absent himself ;
but in all things as a faithful apprentice he shall behave
himself towards his said master and all his family during
the said term.
Not many Australians are apprenticed to the sea.
Many that have been were scapegraces who did
their country no credit. So much has this been
so that one line—the best fleet of sailing
vessels that comes here —has absolutely forbidden
its captains to receive Australian boys as appren-
tices. Yet, given a fair show, Australians make
splendid sailors.
Bernard Hall has been affirming in Mel-
bourne that the “original intention of Art is to
decorate,” and the Goths have fallen on him with
scorn. Is not, then, Tragedy Art, asks one ; and
what is there decorative in Tragedy ? Which
shows a complete ignorance of the essential facts
of Art. Tragedy is of all things supremely
decorative. It takes the most sordid and miser-
able things of life and transmutes them into a
poetry which is beautiful and, in a true sense, joy-
bringing. To quote Bertrand Russell: —
Of all the arts, Tragedy is the proudest, the most
triumphant, for it builds its shining citadel in the very
centre of the enemy’s country, on the very summit of his
highest mountain. . . . Within its walls the free life con-
tinues while the legions of Death and Pain and Despair,
and all the servile captains of tyrant Fate, afford the
burghers of that dauntless city new spectacles of beauty.
Tragedy not decorative, Why it can take the
battered corpse from the pavement and make it
“a thing of beauty and a joy for ever.”
* * * *
The Australian railway system could be
improved by the adoption of numbers for railway-
stations. A lot of stations are mere wayside
pulling-up places, but their names are sufficient to
strike terror into a Cossack. A few from the
Westralian railway time-table: Moonyoonoonooka,
Nannowtharra, Tuckannarra, Mooliabeenee, Jen-
naccubbine, Hulongongine, Jarrainonga, Moggo-
j erring, and Munjacobydaring. It’s tiresome to
write Cootamundrajonga when “ Siding 14 ” would
suffice.
* * * *
The tale of a Chinee cook :
The Chinese cook gave a timid knock, and entered with
a bland, apologetic smile.
“Me likee get off Sunday week, missee—wantee go
Chineeman funalal.”
She looked at him in amazement.
“Nonsense, John! They’d never keep anyone till
Sunday week to be buried.”
“Oli, lat’s all li’,” still smiling affably. “Him not
dead let.”
“John, I’m ashamed of you! Fancy wanting to settle
to go to your friend’s funeral when he isn’t dead.”
“hat’s' all li’,” imperturbably. “Him elite sure to
die —me g'O to his funalal Sunday week ? ”
“ But no one can be sure he’ll die, John. Even doctors
make mistakes sometimes.”
“No chancee make mistake. Him bellied Sunday
week all li’. Him going to be hung Fliday—bellied
Sunday 1 ”
* » * *
United States Employers’ Liability Assur-
ance Corporation gives the four chief causes of
man’s financial downfall as revealed by the experi-
ence of its operations—(l) Women, (2) specula-
tion, (3) high living, (4) expensive hobbies ; and
notes that the first is responsible for by far the
greatest number of cases. Same old Adam—same
old excuse.
Weigall, headmaster of the Sydney Gram-
mar School is not very complimentary about the
young Australian intellect :
It may be fairly said that such success as the school has
gained, either on the intellectual or the athletic side,
during the past year, has been the result of organisation
and persistent effort, for the material at our disposal has
been singularly deficient in native brilliancy. It has been
noticeable for some time past that the intellectual quality
of those who have been admitted to the school has been
deteriorating.
* * * *
The Vic. birthrate was helped along the
other day by a lady who took advantage of the
facilities of a suburban private hospital. She
paid up all right, and when able to move about a
bit asked that a nurse might be allowed to drive
with her to a certain hotel. Leaving the nurse
with baby in the cab, she entered the private bar
door —and the nurse might be waiting yet if she
hadn’t had sense enough to go back home. Any-
one wanting a cheap month-old baby can be
accommodated with a bargain.
* m * *
Hobart had a shade temperature of 103
one day last week, through a corner of a heat
wave getting across to the little island ; and the
plump and juicy Tasmanians larded the lean earth
as they crawled around. About Xmas time the
Hobart man saw Mt. Wellington snow-covered ;
within less than a month he was suffering Red Sea
weather.
* * * *
Rabbits, K.C.M.Geese, sparrows, Scotch
thistles, briars, and snails do not exhaust the list of
pests imported to Australia from the dear old
Mother country. There is also the British break-
fast, which starts with an oatmeal mash —a stodgy,
mushy mass of boiled paste and bran —and con-
cludes with bacon and eggs. No oil subject of the
Empire considers himself properly British and
respectable for the day until he has swallowed
bacon and eggs. If he went to his office without
them, he’d consider himself naked. In a climate
which is mostly fog when it isn’t snow, bacon and
eggs are admirable, perhaps necessary. They
supply caloric plentifully, and enable the con-
sumer to let off a little steam at the dog which
annoys him, without running the risk of his life
machine being promptly choked by the fog or
frozen dead by the snow. But in a land where
the glass climbs up to lOOdeg. in the summer,
bacon and eggs as a breakfast food are almost
murderous. But they’re British, and that suffices.
Australia has hardly begun to think for itself in
the matter of food.
* * • »
Australia is full of penny-wise, pound-
foolish “economies.” It is found impossible to
provide a State asylum for the destitute illegiti-
mate at birth ; but when the abandoned infant’s
body has been found in a paddock, the State is
forced to give gaol accommodation to the mother.
Keeping a mother in gaol is far more expensive
than keeping an infant in a foundling asylum, and
it doesn’t bring with it the advantage of rearing
up another citizen.
JUST THE THING.
At a Churoh Congress during Melbourne Cup
week, one rev. gent said that deaconesses should
be provided with an attractive uniform. Cer-
tainly a few deaconesses of the right sort, who
know how to look attractive, should lead the
wicked to church, if anything will.
“ Binnacle,” as to the long hours of officers
on Australian coasters :
Have a personal friend on board a cargo boat belonging
to a popular inter-State line. He has been going to New-
castle for many years as chief officer. On duty en route ;
on duty when entering ; on duty when loading ; on duty
on clearing the port, and on duty at sea again. He has
by law to be examined at Newcastle for his pilot’s ticket,
which his co. insists on his taking out, and during all
these many years he has not had the hour to spare to sit
for his exam.
A CHRISTMAS GIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
* PENDANT of opal or pearl,
/m A bangle, a locket, a fan,
/ t The things that are dear to the heart
of a girl
That occur to the mind of a man, —
These are gifts for the friends that are nearest,
But crowned with the rose and the rue,
And woven with memory’s dearest,
I have only some verses for you l
You loved what I wrote as a lover,
You loved it because it was mine,
And many a fault was passed over
For the heart-beat that hid in the line.
’Twas for you I attempted the greatest—-
For you turned the best and the worst,
And for YOU I hare fashioned the latest
Whose love bade me fashion the first l
WILL H. OGILVIE.
A REVERSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God, you, and I,
Above us the sky,
The world at our feet.
God and you flown,
And I, left alone,
Am at the world’s feet.
THE WATCHER.


V
<b
*
O
$
4'
FALIERES’ PHOSPHATINE
HAS PRECEDENCE OVER ALL OTHER
FOODS
FOR INFANTS A INVALIDS
ALL CHEMISTS & GROCERS.
A CHOICE
TABLE P’NOTE PINNER
is served Every Evening at
BAUMANN’S CAF€
162 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
The Charm of Beauty. “Valaze* is not a
make-up, but a food which builds up the tissues and
nourishes the skin; removes freckles, wrinkles, sun-
burn, sallowness, &c., and enables a woman to retain
youthful freshness until advanced age. It takes only
a few minutes to apply at night, and the only
trace of it next day is the wonderful improvement is
has wrought to the skin. After once using it you will
feel absolutely satisfied that its value is worth three times
the money. But beware of substitutes. Valaze—small
jar 3s. 6d., large 6s. ; posted 6d. extra. Valaze Face
Powder, three tints, absolutely pure, hygienic, and con-
tains no lead, chalk or bismuth, 2s. box. Valaze Herbal
Complexion Soap is unequalled for keeping the face and
hands in perfect condition—lasts six months —2s. Valaze
nreparations obtainable W. H. Soul, Pitt-street, Sydney,
Civil Service, all leading chemists, or direct from Itdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Hiee, pretty liair, and a clean scalp is every-
body’s desire The readers of The Bulletin can
have both by using the Roman Hair Restorer, and
after using it we are positive will thank us for
recommending it. It stimulates the dormant
capillary vessels and removes the daily secretion.
The Roman Hair Restorer will restore hair,
prevent it falling out and keep the head free from
scurf and dandruff. Price, by post, 2s. 3d. Sold
by chemists at Is. Gd. Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a
Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
DP RAUB’S
MEDICATED _
SUTHALAY
SOAP
Bath
Toilet
Plassage
| FACILE PRINCEPS. |
SEMPER IDEM.
BUCHANAN
HISKY
Dress Fabric
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
trademark
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A 9
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 17, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
Home from the Mountains ! The train-loads of
grimy and dishevelled mountaineers are still
making their way back from Katoomba, where
your back hair caught fire if you went out for a
walk, and even the chilliest iceberg of a girl was
always liable to blaze up and burn as briskly as at
an auto da fe. Several people who heard that Mr.
Mark Foy had been giving away champagne to
the Medlow Bath visitors on particularly festive
days, cheerfully ran the risk of being cremated by
trying to drive over from Katoomba to get some.
Never since Lord Hopetoun gave away whole
cases of fizz to the unemployed has such a genuine
chance occurred. But the bush fires stopped the
thirsty ones, and they had to struggle back
with tongues hanging out and frillies already
smouldering.
Among the hastiest of the fugitives from
Katoomba was papa Cooper, with Mrs. Cooper
and their six charming Cooperlets, from Victoria.
Mrs. Cooper is a sister of Mrs. Malcolm
McEacharn, who is at present enjoying blizzards
and things, in Scotland. Papa Cooper was a
politician in this State about 50 years ago, and
went to Victoria for his well-dowered missus.
The six little Cooperkins, all made after the same
pattern, are of different sizes and capacities. The
younger ones are neat little barrels of varying
rotundity. The larger are handsome and imposing
hogsheads, so to speak. A man who rears six
daughters in these bad times, and takes them all
for a holiday at the same time, and then drops
into a bush fire, and only escapes with his beard
singed and his troupe smoking, deserves a special
vote of sympathy.
Miss Eva Bryan, who is confessedly, I think,
one of the classically beautiful women of Sydney,
was quietly married the other day. The lucky man
is Dr. Otto Wunderlich, a personable-looking
bridegroom in the early thirties, who doesn’t
seem to have much that’s foreign about him but
his name and the way he raises his hat. Foreigners
always score in that item. Miss Bryan, who
had some means of her own, was by way of being
musical, and her frocking was generally perfect.
For some years Sydney expected her to marry a
belted earl, or some such ; but she’s done better,
probably.
More swimming baths for women are badly
wanted. Present arrangement is that when, on a
day, a frizzled female feels that she requires a dip,
and tramps a mile or two to the baths, it is the day
for “men only.” The women’s day was yesterday
or last week. Here and there a swimming bath is
reserved altogether for women, and on a hot
Saturday it is as crowded as a revival meeting and
just about as comfortable. Half the time you are
bathing in water with a distinctly feminine flavor
about it, the rest of the time you are entangled in
the other woman’s damp hair. At one of these
places, the other day, I saw an infuriated slie-
bather giving the male boss of the establishment
the rough edge of a particularly rasping tongue.
Oblivious of appearances, she stood on the plat-
form in a dripping, skin-tight swimming suit and
threw eloquence at the case-hardened proprietor,
whom she had deliberately dragged from his den
that he might be her target.
Her complaint was that while she was in the
water, six adult she-bathers and eight children had
invaded her dressing bunk and scattered her gar-
ments on the floor. It was an appalling lapsus
lingerie. Then they had hung up their own
dubious raiment on the rusty nails, and declined
to retire when requested. The boss could only
mutter apologetically that he was having some
more boxes built, and that they would be ready in
a year or two. Saw the aggrieved one later on
when she was dressed. She was still boiling. Her
new gloves and one or two other unspecified
articles had disappeared in the scuffle.
There is a quiet-looking little professor of the
occult who has a large feminine following out
Glebe way. At a recent seance on a sultry after-
noon at least a score of goggle-eyed girls were
present, and nary a male thing among them except
the professor. He began proceedings by going
into a fit and prophesying in a high, shrill
voice. According to this authority, the Bear
and Monkey war will extend until all the
nations of the world are involved, and will
last for seven years. It will be the greatest
war in history, and when it is over the population
of the world will be one-tenth man and nine-tenths
woman. There aren’t nearly enough husbands to
go round as it is, and when there are nine women
to every man, the unfortunate male creatures will
Erobably be torn to pieces in the scuffle for a hus-
and, and thus man will finally disappear from
the planet. The Glebe soothsayer quoted
Hebrew prophets in support of his alarming state-
ments. The domesticated Christian woman who is
on the look-out for a “ respectable gentleman with
view to above ” had better double the.size of her
advertisement, or she may miss the ’bus. A
rival mystic, who is at present practising in
Sydney, is a full-blooded African' negro. His
specialty is going into a trance and talking in
what is said to be modern Greek. The King-
street oyster people have not as yet bowled him
out as an impostor.
Up at Ulmarra the bubonic rat has poked
his baleful nose into love’s young dream with
ghastly consequences in two eases. In one, a lover
calling on his beloved caught the plague from
her and died ; in the other, a girl who per-
sisted in visiting her lover when he was a
victim to the disease, succumbed to the contagion.
Wonder whether the average married man
or married woman would rise to the height of
calling on the life-partner in a plague-ward.
Some would, of course. But the average
man, who is frenzied at the thought that
his fiancee may get her feet damp when they are
both caught in the usual picnic thunderstorm, is
oppressed by very different fears when his wife
doesn’t know enough to come in out of the rain.
The difference that marriage makes in the situation
is that it causes him to grumble aggravatingly
over the prospect of an increased dressmaker’s
bill.
The “town buyer ” is the latest development of
feminine commercial enterprise. She makes pur-
chases for the bush women who cannot comedown
to town themselves, and she will buy anything,
from a motor-car to a tube of tooth-paste, for her
clients. The flustered bush lady who requires a
new hat can avoid a lot of anxiety, and procure a
thrill of pleasurable excitement as well, by leaving
the job of getting it to an alert young woman
about town. Chiffons or rat poison, a new draw-
ing-room carpet, or a pair of indestructible
pants for Tommy—it’s all the same to the
“town buyer.” She charges nothing for the
job, and contents, herself with the commission
fjsom the shops.’ Among the latest I notice to
take up this calling is Miss R. Venn Brown, of
Wynyard Square, who qualified by going through
the routine of her dad’s office—an indenting and
importing warehouse. The occupation snould
solve the problem of existence for many a young
woman, once the advantage of having your shop-
ping done for you is appreciated.
A forthcoming wedding of interest will be that
of the “ Little Boy from Manly,” whom contem-
porary Australian caricature has made in a mea-
sure notable. When the Soudan contingent was
dispatched from N.S. Wales there appeared
among the daily paper subscription lists, to buy
jam and so on for the troops, the item, “A Little
Boy from Manly, £5.” “Hop” seized on the line,
and thereafter “the Little Boy from Manly” has
typified N.S. Wales in his cartoons. The original
of the little boy was Ernest Laurence, son of Mr.
Charles Laurence, the well-known solicitor. That
was long years ago, and “the little boy from
Manly ” has now grown up to manly estate, and is
to be married this month to Miss Belle Brown,
grand-daughter of the late Alexander Dean, of
Manly.
Concerning that recent Enoch Arden-like
tragedy in England, in which a lady, a
former husband who had been in Austra-
lia, and an overdose of laudanum figure—
some years ago a woman in a neighboring
State was surprised by a letter from the hus-
band she had long considered happily dead
and securely buried in Canada. She had, acting
on that belief, married a shopkeeper, and they had
three young children, but Sandy wrote that she’d
have to return to him ; if not —well, he’d be the
terror that stalked at moontide and the some-
thing that flieth by night. Besides he had a
nice, wee bit farm in Canada. Wife was
a strong, attractive middle-aged woman. But
it is not difficult for a middle aged woman
to make herself look frightsome. Besides, she
knew how thrifty was the unwelcome re-
turner. At Brisbane, a joyous letter from Jesse
awaited Sandy, and at Circular Quay she cast her-
self upon his breast, dropping the sticks upon
which she leaned. She was toothless, her hair
was plastered back, and three ragged children
whimpered at her side. “ They’ll be so
useful on the farm,” she mumbled, “ when they
are grown. I wouldn’t dream of going without
them.” The horrified claimant gave her 55.,
and a sixpence apiece to the children, and pro-
mised fervently to call at the address she gave
him. Months afterwards she knew he had re-
turned to Canada, because he sent her a pound
from there, but without letter or address.
Miss Mildred Coffee, eldest daughter of Mr.
Frank Coffee, of Iroquois, Chatswood, whose
engagement to Dr. Kelly, a North Sydney
physician, is announced, is a very American girl—
clearly colorless as to complexion, black as to the
pile of hair, brushed up in a billow same as the
Gibson girl’s. She is a good violinist. The pater-
nal Coffee is an American merchant in Sydney.
As for the bridegroom elect, report says he is one
of “ the coming men ” in his profession.
Mr. Octavius Beale, whose correspondence with
Mr. “Orchid” Chamberlain has caused more or
less interest, sets, on the domestic side, a good
example. He has 10 (unusually handsome) chil-
dren. Two of the girls are by way of being
literary and artistic.
Little Nina Caron, who appears as a midship-
man’'in “Pinafore,” is conductor Leon Caron’s
only child. Madame Caron is a Tasmanian, and
was a singer of some reputation.
Sixth daughter of Archdeacon Hose, of Corowa,
is marrying, some time this month, a son of Mr.
G. F. Sugden, of Woodsome Lees, Tocumwal (on
the Murray). Sugden, senior, besides being- the
wise owner of silly sheep, is a wool-scourer in a
biggish way. To the passing stranger he is a per-
fect mine of reminiscence. His homestead, a
quaint “ bush ” house, has often been the “story”
place of an Australian tale, and his recitals about
bushrangers and blacks have been used partly or
wholly, in many a romance. His eldest daughter
is married to the manager of Boomanoomana
. (Hay’s), a “show station ” of the Riverina.
Ida Osborne (Mrs. Norcott) was in Sydney last
week. Her prominent contralto share in first
productions of Gilbert and Sullivan’s operas in
Australia is gratefully remembered.
Mrs'.'Charles Parkinson and Miss Amy Smith,
of Mojsman, are trying to move the women of that
suburb to practical sympathy with the bush-fire
sufferers. There will be a meeting to-day (Thurs-
day), when some means of raising money-will be
devised. Hon. Secs, are the two ladies mentioned.
A writer in an American paper discussing
stage beauties at the famous Horse Show in
New York: “Mrs. Patrick Campbell and Hilda
Spong have the finest necks and shoulders on the
stage.”
Sydney Mayoress Mrs. Allen Taylor will hold
her first public reception at the Town Hall on
Thursday, the 26th inst., from 3 to 5. A really
good “ show” is to be expected, for arrangements
are being made on such a lavish scale as will give
all previous mayoresses a pain in the egotism.
The nocturnal wedding is still fashionable.
Two young things—Mr. Ashley Campbell and
Miss Mabel Houston—were married a few nights
ago at Waverley in the presence of about 150
people, all in ball costume. The women looked
quaint in low-cut frocks and picture hats. They
had to wear their hats because St. Paul, or some-
body, says that women must have their heads covered
in church, and the minister backed up that rather
musty authority. After the knot-tying a reception
and sit-down supper at Woodlawn, Waverley, home
of the bride’s parents, continued the illusion that
a State ball was in progress, and the two princi-
pals departed in a carriage and pair somewhere
about midnight for parts unknown, leaving the
young hloods still making speeches. Heaps of
pretty girls on view, “plump and pleasing per-
sons,” as Sir Joseph Porter says. Among the
layer on top of the basket a conscientious judge
would put Miss Muriel Carter and Miss Hume, of
Burrowa—where the bush-fires come from. The
institution of the nocturnal wedding is very handy
for the guests. They don’t have to get new
clothes. Every potential male wedding guest
is supposed to have a dress suit, until he pawns it,
and every woman can wear her theatre frock and
a few dabs of pearl powder.
Governor Gerald Strickland, of the Flyspeck,
and Lady Edelino have started on an adventurous
voyage to the North-West Coast, where Lady
Edeline will see the biggest potatoes she ever saw
in her life if she gets as far as Burnie. Mrs.
Willie Jamieson, spouse of the Broken-Hillionaire,
has a summer house there, and goes over to
get cool whenever the heat-waves on our side of
the straits become unendurable. Her cottage,
fronting the sea breezes off Emu Bay, is one of the
most comfortable places in the Commonwealth
what time Mr. Hunt, of the Observatory, is reading
up in order to wrestle with the mercury in this
perspiring city. Lady Edeline —it sounds like the
trade name of a new hair wash, doesn't it! —will
hardly leave the North-West Coast without going
to Macquarie Harbor where Rufus Dawes’ ghost
still gibbers o’ nights. It is to be hoped that
she will have better luck on her Tasmanian cruise
than the Brasseys in the same waters. Old man
Brassey dropped his hat-box overboard, and in
grabbing to recover it ran the Sunbeam ashore
and nearly drowned “Sibby.”
It is printed in several London society papers
that when the late Queen lay dying, one devoted
princess was occupying the time by annexing all
the portable property available. It came to the
present King’s knowledge, and he very rudely
compelled her to-disgorge.
At a recent Christmas treat to ragged young-
sters at Dawes’ Point every kid was presented
with a text and a Union Jack. Fancy the joy of
the poor little dears. Now they’ll have a flag to
wave next time a Duke or anything visits Aus-
tralia. And before the texts every night they
can pray for their betters.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The two vice-regal houses have their blinds
drawn for the collection of the midsummer moth
and the indoor spider. The Northcotes tried
Colac, sniffed a smoky atmosphere for a stoical
period, then dashed on to Warrnambool for a
whiff of the salt breeze. The Talbots are at
Macedon, in the midst of bush blazes. The Grey
Dame never had seen the earth on fire, and was
eager for the sight. She satisfied her wishes,
putting up with a temperature of 120° in the
shade.
“Just as this blistered State was slowly arriving
at the conclusion that a long, droopy, unconcerned
Governor was an extravagant and ridiculous excess
and his body-guard a howling waste, the announce-
ment booms out in the daily press that his Ex. has
appointed an extra A.U.C. What for ? There is
a private sec. to drop a line on business affairs
once or twice in the year ; a whole aide to fan the
flies off the pink dome of his chief in the summer
and turn on the heating apparatus in the winter.
Then why the extra Jack-in-the-box ?
“ The very latest is that the wheels of a big poli-
tician’s matrimonial project have come to a com-
plete standstill, owing to the lady’s parents having
refused their sanction to the marriage until the gay
and frisky one can furnish satisfactory evidence
that he has arrived at years of discretion.
“Woman—ever worried by the thought that
she doesn’t wear so well as the other sex—finds
the double chin a woe. All flesh is gross when it
becomes over-abundant, and there is no more cer-
tain sign of age than fat, which proclaims forty —
or more. A beauty-doctor has devised a chin-
apparatus which the patient with a double chin
dons at night in company with her angel-case, and
wakes in the morning with the consciousness of a
dwindling neck. The strap drawn taut under the
jaws keeps the lips locked, and through the
night hours Woman must remain silent, and
Caudle—if there is a Caudle in the case—is pre-
served from curt’ain lectures. A leading Aus-
tralian actress is said to be wearing a ‘ chineen,’
and many of the buxom sisterhood are following
her lead.
“The summer girl this year pins her faith and
her back hair to the baby-frill hat—the large,
shady sort which flops with the wind and flirts
with her male escort, so to speak. It conceals her
freckle-crop, her tan and other sun blemishes.
But the mistakes and the awful disillusions
brought about by the flopping sun-hat cause many
a tragedy for the seaside Johnny. A chic
figure is observed, and a crisp gait to correspond.
A baby hat is the crowning charm. He swungs
along on the track of perfection and finds—
an old woman. In my experience, the older
the ‘girl’ the giddier her sun-bonnet, until,
as worn at 60, it is of a most pronounced nursery
type.
“Talking of scribes! An enterprising she-
reporter besought Tummy Bent and all his Minis-
try, together and in turn, to plant her in Pentridge
for a term on the charge of being an ink nuisance
or a moralist, or something equally bad. Falstaff
Bent blew his cheeks out, distended his
nostrils, thrust his specks on his bump of
obstinacy, and generally behaved like a startled and
flabbergasted fat man, but at last gave permission
for the persistent inquirer to pay a lengthy visit
to the Stockade. She did, and writes of gaol life
from the visitor’s, and not the inmate’s, point of
view. She also begged for a trip in Black
Maria, but Commissioner O’Callaghan snorted
violently, and refused- point blank.
“Recent photographs of Carrie Moore bear tes-
timony to the change wrought in the pert mum-
mer by her London experience. She appears
much older, much sedater, much smarter in style,
and much more extravagant in dress. A three-
quarter coat, of the handsomest Russian sable,
such as the Princess Olga Ivumantevisky always
wears in the diplomatic novel, points to tfie
fact that Carrie, who spent little on her clothes
heretofore, has awakened to the importance
in the Big Smoke of being opulently dressed.
That coat represents a small fortune. Two other
successful Melbourne footlighters— Alice Crawford
and Violet Elliott—have all along spent some
thought as well as lucre on their clothes, and been
conscientious in attending to the good points of
their figures.
“Miss Henry, of the Australasian staff, for a
long while a chronicler of the Creche and Home
for Desolate Mothers in the press here and occa-
sionally abroad, has to start off on a health jaunt.
She has been granted half-a-year’s holiday. Sister
scribes are raising a testimonial to recognise the
services of the lady who has grown grey on the
Inky Way.
“ Mrs. Forbes-Semple has been leading charmer
of the Hobart cake-walk for the past month. At
the matrons’ hop she appeared as the one rare
beauty in autumn brown a shimmering soft array
of chiffons, and tulle of the same hue in her
chablis-toned tresses. Miss Rita Kiddle has also
flounced about with some effect at smart Hobart
sprees.
“The Edward Trencliards start off to Europe
by the India. They touch at all the ports and big
centres possible within a limited period of six
months. The wealthy Mrs. Tom Smith, with her
one remaining ewe-lamb, the petite Edith, packs
away her glass and chinaware and stores her
household valuables for an indefinite period, hav-
ing decided to go to Europe, and, in passing, look
in at her two married daughters by way of a
New Year greeting. For the wealthy widow with
but one small responsibility, gadding is the thing.
“The Talbots loaded the M‘Eacharns with
pasteboards to exalted London friends when the
latter were leaving, and at present the ex-Mayor
of shining respectability is nobbing with some rare
old guns. Malcolm himself, among other things,
has become addicted to motoring, and whirls in
the best machine that his pocket can command.
‘ England’s good enough for me,’ he tells the Vic.
globe-trotter.
“Recent visitors to Tasmania met a honey-
mooning couple who called up memories of
Hoggenheimer of Parle Lane and his bride, the
Girl from Kay’s. Hubby, a fat, financial,
elderly foreigner, went out of his way to assure
new acquaintances that his pretty young partner
was ‘ very fond ’of him. In proof of this asser-
tion, he made a practice of chucking his property
under the chin in public, with the comment ‘Not
a bad-looking liddle girl, eh ? ’ The victim smiled
through thick and thin ; but there are smiles and
smiles.
“ Touring Britishers are a trial! One of them
testified, t’other day, that -she enjoyed the local
production of ‘Sweet Nell’ because she had not
seen it ‘at Home.’ But, of course, she couldn’t
enjoy ‘ Old Heidelberg ’ after having beheld ‘ a
gairl at Home ’do it. She didn’t even remember
the ‘ gairl’s’ name, but she was ‘ at Home,’ so, of
course, must be superior to Nellie Stewart.
“The plaintive sob that is wrung from the
Loongana turbine machinery has to be accounted
for to each fresh batch of tourists. The patient
stewardess doesn’t even smile now when she is
asked at nights if ‘ that poor creature is still suf-
fering,’ and she has to respect the inquiry of
Riverina people who want to know the amount of
live stock aboard.
“Miss Alexia Bassian is warmly enthusiastic
over Marchesi. ‘ Her age! Why, no one who knows
Marchesi thinks of her years. She is Marchesi.
That answers all things—her wit, her spirit, her
staying powers, her incapacity for fatigue. The
old Marquis—now he is old. We all call him the
Marquis, and he is a marvel in a way. He gets
to like certain pupils and dislike others, and he
teases his favorites and worries Madame into a
shrill exclamation of petulance. Then it is over,
and she laughs.’ Miss Bassian corresponds regu-
larly with the venerable voice-trimmer, and con-
fesses to liking her mightily.
(Continued on page SO.)


HEARTY APPETITES.
There is nothing can give you an appetite like Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. The very first box will
make you hungry. Remember, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are not like common patent medicines. They
don’t act on the bowels. They don’t bother with mere symptoms. They do only one thing, but
they do it well—they actually male new blood. In that way they strike at the very root and
cause of all stomach troubles.
« p or two years I never enjoyed a decent meal,” said Mrs. Frank Musgrave, 10 Little Belmore-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney. “ I was almost at death’s door with Indigestion. My appetite was completely gone.
I hated to think of meal time. I would no sooner swallow my food than I would start to vomit. A piercing
pain seemed to catch me at the end of the breast-bone. Every day I grew thinner and weaker. I could not
sleep, and got up tired. I hadn’t the strength to do my house-work. My face had no color. I grew worse
and worse, till a friend made me get some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. The first box or two made me feel
hungry. When I got through three boxes, I was able to eat what I liked. I had no more headaches and no
more bilious attacks. I got a splendid color, and gained weight every day. After seven boxes, my
health could not have been better. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills worked wonders for me.”
T7rnm Storekeepers and Chemists, or direct from Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, 2s. 9d. a box, or
six boxes for 15s. 3d., sent Post Free.
$
c
c.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Seddon-Taylor (Maoriland) alleged
slander action is to be tried over again, the
plaintiff having applied for a new trial and a
change of venue.
Colonel Murray, the Commonwealth judi-
cial officer in New Guinea, has a brother, Gilbert,
a professor in Glasgow (Scotland). He is a notable
Greek scholar and something of a playwright.
George Dean, the central figure in one of
the most exciting criminal cases of a century, now
lives quietly in a Sydney suburb. He has resumed
his old occupation of ferry-boat master, and finds
employment as a casual hand with one of the ferry
companies. The long term of gaol left its mark
on Dean, but he is still a fairly young-looking man.
A Governor’s private sec. in one of the
Australian cities, the other day, told a reporter to
“go to blanky ,” which fact suggest the need
of revising one current notion of natural his-
tory. Governor’s private secretaries in Australia
have always been looked upon as pink-eyed rab-
bits, without the shadow of a cuss in them.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley was sworn
in on December 7, 1886, and has thus entered on
liis nineteenth year of office. In staying capacity
lie ranks next to Alfred Stephen in N.S.W.
Forbes held office nearly 14, Martin nearly 13,
and Dowling seven years.
N.S.W. Justice G. B. Simpson, who has
just gone on a holiday trip, began life in a com-
mercial capacity in the office of George Alfred
Lloyd, a general commission agent and auctioneer.
In the office at the same time were Fred Lassetter,
Josiah Mullins, and Sam Dickinson.
An octogenarian hotelkeeper, of West
Melbourne, came to a highly appropriate, almost
poetic, end the other day. He locked up the bar
at 1 o’clock on a Sunday morning, and laid him
down upon a couch in the bar parlor to sleep, per-
chanoe to dream, of his Saturday night’s takings.
Then the Angel of Death stole gently into the bar
parlor, and the form of the aged sluinberer was as
an empty bottle.
HOPE WAS LOST.
CYRIL (gloomily): “Yes, Maud, my girl , I know
it is a vile habit. I wish I could give it up
But it’s too late. I am a slave to tobacco.”
Thorold Waters, known in Australia as a
journalist, who is seeking the bubble reputation
as a singer in England, has been appointed prin-
cipal tenor to the Benedictine choir, Ealing,
London.
L. A. Bernays, who wears some small tag
to his name, has been Clerk of the Queensland
Assembly ever since it was born, 44 years ago.
During that time there have been nine Speakers
and 22 Ministries.
It was proposed to engrave the names of
all Cohentingenters who went to South Africa on
the soldiers’ memorial to be erected at Orange, but
an objector pointed out that two or three had been
looked up for horse-stealing since their return.
H. H. Champion states that “Robbery
Under Arms ” when first published in a N.S.W.
weekly excited little remark. Not a fact; the
appearance of Rolf Boldrewood’s book in the
Svdney Mail, in ’79 or thereabouts, literally set
the bush afire. It was talked about in every pub.
and at every camp-fire.
Back in S.A., after a 15 years absence,
Hermann Brauer, professor of languages in the
University of Wisconsin (U.S.A.). Brauer was a
schoolboy at Mt. Torrens, in the hills behind
Adelaide, and is reminding the natives how he
used to crack stones on the high-road, after school
hours, to earn the necessaries of life.
The hardy bride of the early days. Joshua
Hatch, an old S.A. colonist who died at Nuriootpa
recently, was married at Kapunda in ’52, his wife
having just been driven from Adelaide in a bullock
dray—a GO-miles trip. After the ceremoiiy the
couple started their honeymoon by walking to
Nuriootpa, 15 miles or so, and never left the place
again.
W. N. Willis, N.S.W. ex-M.L.A., is said
to have an agent selecting land for him in Mada-
gascar.
Died in Adelaide, on January 9th, Charles
Williams, veteran printer, aged 84. Deceased
made a special study of music typesetting, and
was engaged to set upJohn Bishop’s arrangement
of the “Messiah,” “The Creation,” “Judas
Maccabeus,” and other oratorios. He was a mem-
ber of the Anti-Corn-Law League, and took part
in the demonstrations of Cobden, Bright, and
Fox. Williams came to S. Australia in ’5B, and
worked as a printer in various offices. He had
lately completed a small work on Dickens.
A suburban ex-M.L.A., who went down at
last N.S.W. election, has resumed his local hustle
for a living, and has built a modest lean-to shed,
and daubed up his name, and an intimation
that he will do anything that anyone is too tired
to do for himself. Next door to his humpy is the
local town hall, an imposing edifice on which the
ex-M.L. A.’s name is emblazoned in gold lettering.
It somehow suggests a dethroned king running a
stall outside the palace that used to be his,
and trying to sell 24 bananas for 3d. to his suc-
cessor.
Just 21 years ago it occurred to a South
Australian brewer, Charles Mallam, that
he was an old man at last, and ought to
have a bit of sympathy for the other old
fellows in the Home for Incurables ; so he
sent them round a lialf-lmrrel of beer,
and said to himself that he’d keep it up
every week as long as he lasted. He is
still lasting—though he is close up to 90
now—and he is still keeping it up.
Recently deceased Jas. Rice was the first
discoverer of gold in the Walhalla (Gippsland)
district.
Up north in W.A. dwells a descendant of
one of the Six Families who practically lives
amongst the blacks. To see him shifting camp is
Jiathetic ; a huge, unshorn man sitting in a buggy
anything on wheels is called a buggy in the West)
with a bevy of black women and a crowd of chil-
dren. His very highly-placed brother once nearly
got him made a J.P., but there was an outcry, and
the thing didn’t go through.
Malcolm Reid, the Adelaide timber mer-
chant, who once made an unsuccessful attempt to
become Mayor, returned from the Transvaal the
other day. Reid bought land there, and the spec,
proved good. He says Transvaal farming was
shattered through the war, and advises Australia,
which helped in the shattering, to send produce
and fill its pockets before the Boer whose farm
was burnt is able to make up lost ground.
In the same week the Melbourne papers
announced that Father Dalton, the Sydney Jesuit,
was dead, that the Rev. H. N. Wollaston was in a
critical state, and that Trinity (Anglican) Church,
East Melbourne, had been burned down. For
nearly 33 years Wollaston was rector of Holy
Trinity, from which he retired 15 years ago; and
30 years ago, Dalton and Wollaston figured in the
then famous case of “the Bates children.” A
woman died in the Melbourne lying-in hospital.
Before she died she sent for Father D., and asked
him to look after her three illegitimate children.
The next day Father D. went to take possession,
but was repulsed by a bulldog. The Jesuit got
the aid of a policeman, the dog was overpowered,
and the children borne off. Rev. H. N. Wollaston,
the day after, published a letter in the Argus,
reporting how the children had been kidnapped
by a Jesuit and a Roman policeman, and the
Protestant father robbed of his own flesh and
blood to be brought up in Papistry. Court pro-
ceedings followed. The Jesuit came out a winner.
About an almost snuffed-out prophet:—
Te Whiti, the prophet, priest, and king of the Taranaki
Maoris, still holds the fort at Parihaka, the big native
town under the shadow of snow-capped Egmont. Te
Whiti is a tame fanatic—a mild-looking old fellow, with a
straggly grey beard and a set of false teeth. He is as
diligent a student and expounder of the Bible as any
pakeha sky-pilot; his favorite texts are taken from Reve-
lations, wherein he sees special references to the Maori
people. Parihaka is one of the “ sights ”of Taranaki pro-
vince—a well-built town, with a drainage-system and a
good water-supply, carried out by European work-
men. None but Maoris are allowed to live in
the settlement, but pakeha visitors are welcomed
and are hospitably entertained in Te Whiti’s large
house—the only Maori house in which writer ever
saw a bathroom. Hospitality is one of the primal
virtues of the Maori—and Te Whiti prides himself
on being a much greater man in his way than
the King of England, for, says he, “/have 2000 panni-
kins ” (for the Maoris and white men who gather there on
feast days). “How many has King Edward got?”
Although many European innovations are accepted by
the Te Whiti-ites, they will tolerate no pakeha schools.
The only education ailowed in the town-bounds is in the
poi-dance, which, with its accompanying chants, is almost
• sacred ceremony in Parihaka. The old “poropiti ” may
be seen day after day sitting on his verandah watching
the training of the young girls in the movements of the
poi. The music of the chant is very wild and high—quite
unlike that of the Rotorua poi-women. The “libretto”
chiefly consists of Te Whiti’s oracular utterances done into
poetry ; the refrain of every song is a declaration that the
Europeans will soon be driven into the sea, and the
Maori come to his own again; “and overall is Peace—
Peace”—typified by the white plumes of the albatross
which the dancers wear in their hair. The Parihaka
people are intensely anti-Government. The old war and
the old land troubles are not forgotten.
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
CANVASSER BORE : “ Excuse my persistency in
calling, sir!”
THE BOSS : “ Excuse my persistency in not giving
you am, order!”
Mr. Justice A’Beckett has reported on the
Sinclair allegations against Taverner, once Vic.
Minister for Agriculture, now Victorian Agent-
General. Victoria, which has lately had a surfeit
of found-out politician, breathes a sigh of relief
because A’Beckett doesn’t report, on the facts,
very adversely to Taverner. The Judge allows
himself to draw no conclusions or deductions he
merely sifts out the facts, and, whilst declaring
against Mr. Sinclair on several points, still cer-
tifies to enough to show that Mr. Taverner was an
appropriate colleague for Mr. Bent.
Well-known S.A. squatter John Melrose,
who lost his eyesight a year or so back, now
manages his affairs quite as actively as he
ever did, and writes his letters better than
most squatters with two whole eyes to guide
them. Some body recently invented for him
a little ar*rangement to facilitate the signing
of cheques. There is something peculiar
about a man inventing an arrangement for
a blind man to decrease his banking ac-
count with.
Stuart Alexander Donaldson, grand-
father of Brisbane’s new Anglican Bishop,
was only about two months and a half Pre-
mier of N.S.W., and about two years alto-
gether in Australian politics. He was of
the mercantile mind, and beyond fighting
Charlie Cowper, cared little about national
affairs. It was because Governor Denison
could not induce Deas under-
take the first Government that Donaldson,
the makeshift, was called in.
Resident at Neutral Bay, Sydney,
is a medical practitioner, admitted in 1871,
who is also a barrister-at-law admitted in
1884. Dr. H. B. Mugliston, the medico-
barrister in question, was a Member of the
Tasmanian Legislature for some years. Dr.
Todd, ex-Deputy City Coroner, is the only
other in N.S.W. who holds the dual quali-
fication.
In Launceston is a Hindu laundry-
man whose signboard invites customers to
“support British industry” as against the Chinese
Dead, John Plimmer, “ Father of Welling-
ton” (M.L.), a pioneer of some note. He had
been 92£ years on this earth, and 63 years in
windy Wellington. During that time he was only
known to have absented himself once—for a week
—from the Cook Straits port. He originated the
Wellington and Manawatu railway (between
Wellington and Longburn), a wonderfully difficult
bit of engineering, upon which the Government
has long looked covetously. When a young man
he was engaged on the job of building the first
State school in England, at a time when that
country was shivering at the name of Napoleon.
Actor Harry Plimmer, a grandson, was in
Wellington at the time of death, playing in “ The
Eternal City.”
Since 1861, S.A. has had but two Chief
Justices. Richard Hanson, an agnostic who wrote
largely on religious questions, re, S?J. e< J
to 1876. Samuel Way, a devout Methodist has
filled in the last 28 years, and is even now only
68 years old.
In politics and other slow-moving,
comparatively harmless occupations the
physically big man with a bulls voice
seems to be a necessary institution.
His physical impregnability and Irigtit-
ful bellow serve to clear his life s
track very early and enable him to
rough-ride his way to leadership.
But for the job of quickly and
vigorously snatching a nation
out of a great difficulty, he is
not in it with that rare crea-
tion, the 10-stone human bull-
ant. Caesar, Napoleon,
Nelson, Richelieu, Dewey,
Roberts and Kuropatxin
represent the type.
Senator Staniforth
Smith, who has now taken
Oceania as his province,
left a record of practical
municipal Socialism behind
him in W.A. It was Smith
who broke up the fruit ring
in Kalgoorlie a few years
back. One firm had a vir-
tual monopoly of th e banana
business, and its prices
were taller than the poppet
heads at Boulder Block.
Smith was Mayor of Kal-
goorlie at the time, and
founded a municipal market,
which brought prices down
with a run. This fruit market
has paid interest from the start,
and has also provided for a sub-
stantial sinking fund. Staniforth Smith likewise
started the W.A. Children’s Presh Air League,
which sends the goldfields youngster to the sea for
a spell in summer.
There are more vicissitudes in politics
than in any other calling on earth. Who remem-
bers Joe Winter nowadays ? Winter was a v ic-
torian Laborite, and held Albert Park when he
died in 1895. Many nominations were made for
Winter’s seat, and some of the candidates who
were small-bore individuals then are large-bore
persons nowadays, and vice-versa. J. B. Tucker
was nominated in the Labor interest, and won.
Tom Bent got 49 votes, and lost his deposit. Dr.
Hall Owen, Mayor of S. Melbourne, put up a
good score. Sam Mauger and H. H. Champion
polled fairly well, and a party named Daglish lost
his £5O along with Tommy Bent. Now Bent is
Premier of Victoria, and Daglish fills a similar
billet in W.A. Tucker is an outsider, and Sam
Mauger holds a safe seat in the Federal Parlia-
ment.
THE APOLOGIST.
“The cause of the heat is a monsoonal depression.”
Explanation by Mr. Baracchi, Victorian Astronomer.
OLD SOL : “ Dern my taters if he isn’t apologising
for me!”
No mistake about the way in which
“Larry” Rentoul, that fiery little Ulsterman,
dominates the Melbourne Presbyterians. All
Victoria’s theological students pass through his
hands, and the forceful, brainy little professor
grains a hold on their minds that they never shake
off. Then, when they enter the Assembly, they
yield like boys to all the arts of oratory that the
old man possesses. Rentoul confesses that his
youthful dream was to enter public life in England.
He would have done well in politics.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Wavei-ley Brewery, Agents.
C/3
ui
3/- in the £
OFF EVERY ARTICLE
IN OUR ENTIRE STOCK.
SALE CLOSES
JANUARY 31st.
SEND FOR OUR 65-PAGE
CATALOGUE, CONTAINING
THOUSANDS of BARGAINS.
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS :
G. &S. Alliance
(Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’
Alliance, Ltd.),
90 KING ST.,
SYDNEY.
NOW’S YOUR CHANCE!
If you want a good ENGAGEMENT or DRESS RING at the
Lowest Price ever quoted in Australia. All Goods Post Free.
5 DIAMOND
HALF-HOOP
18ct. RINGS,
18ct., Diamonds,
Ruby and Sapphire,
£6 10s now £5/10/6
18ct., Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
27/6 now 23/6
ť
18et.. Diamonds and
Bubies or Sapphires,
£5 10s now 93/6
18ct., Diamond and
Ruby or Sapphire,
42/- now 35/9
Aboriginalities.
In a Westralian village, recently, the local
J.P. sentenced a gin to six months' hard labor, in
Geraldton gaol, for “indecent exposure”—the
irony of it ! The ordinary Westralian gin wears
a few rags as covering, or a piece of calico made
into a cross between a nightdress and a sack. This
poor wretch actually did four months’ solitary
confinement, and from morning till night her
mournful wails could be heard in the town. Think
of sentencing the aboriginal who has on all the
clothes she possesses to six months for insufficient
wardrobe !
AN INTERNATIONAL INCIDENT.
JUGGINS (who is bargaining for the hire of man and boat for a
day's fishing): “ But the price seems very high."
BOATMAN: “ Very sorry, sir; but ye see, sir, this ’ere Baltic fleet
is getting pretty far South now, and fishing’s a risky business .”
“T.F.M.” writes on the Burke and Wills
expedition :
The episode of Johnny Fawkner, resurrected by “ Old
Chum ” (8., 29/12/’O4), contains much of the naked verity.
Burke’s appointment was simply a smellful political job.
His qualifications for the leadership of such an enterprise
were absolutely nil. The only colonial experience he
possessed was seven years’ service as Inspector of Vic.
Police, into which billet he had been pitchforked on his
arrival from Ireland, without the formality of passing
through the ranks. He was no bushman,' for he had
never camped out in his life, and until he set out upon
the trip which was brought to such a mournful and in-
glorious finale at Cooper’s Creek, had seldom been off a
main road. He knew just as much of the sciences as the
average policeman knows to-day ; he could neither map
out his course, nor write an intelligible account of his
journey ; and he showed such a lack of skill in handling
men that his party was hopelessly demoralised long before
it crossed the Murray. Burke was never suited to be an
explorer, and the committee which placed the lives of so
many men in the keeping of such a leader should have
been indicted for manslaughter.
It was tolerably well known in Melbourne long before
the expedition started that, although there were plenty
of capable and experienced men available, an elaborate
system of underground engineering was at work on
Burke’s behalf, the engineer-in-chief being John
O Shanassy, who was at that time the most prominent
political entity in Victoria. With its lavishly equipped
train, the expedition should have proved, under proper
guidance, a kind of Cook’s Excursion across the .Conti-
nent ; but by Burke’s ignorance and obstinacy he brought
about not only his own death, but also involved seven of
his subordinates in a like fate, while the scientific and
practical results were of the most meagre character.
No ! Burke was not an explorer ; neither was he a hero.
That flying trip from Cooper’s Creek to the Gulf was
more like an act of insanity than the carefully-weighed
conception of a man of dauntless courage, tempered with
judgment. The ease with which a capable man like
Alfred Howitt accomplished, with small and scantily-
equipped parties, all he was asked to do, showed what
might have been done by the lavishly-furnished Burke
and Wills expedition but for the woeful shortcomings of
its leader.
* • * »
A Bananaland man, who had read some-
thing about intense heat being generated by the
sun’s rays reflected by mirrors, tried the experi-
ment, and found that the prickly pear pest so
treated shrivelled up to a pulp in a few minutes.
An experiment is to be tried on a large scale.
The white man is a duffer when it comes to
identifying a Chow. The Chow is equally unre-
liable when he has to pick a white from a few
others. A man spent ninepence in fruit t’other
day at Wong Yik’s, and tendered a florin. Wong,
who had just heard of the fall of Port Arthur,
gave three shillings change—in his excitement.
The man got on to a tram with the surplus. Then
Wong discovered his mistake. With clenched
hands, he cast himself, yelling, into space. “You
dam lobber, you bling ba’ my money. ’’ The tram
whizzed up George-street. Wong sprinted, hold-
ing his breath in both hands. Some Chows can
run. He almost touched the car as it glided
softly away. Wong hung on like the business end
of a typhoon till the tram pulled up. Then he
swung.aboard, panting, and started looking for
the thief, and soon discovered that he was the
white fat man, holding a paper bag in the far
corner. He addressed the quiet hunk of flesh
insolently, demanding his bananas or his cash.
Fat, with rage and indignation, rebuked Wong.
Wong grew hysterical, and apologised for his mis-
take ; then, in the voice of an over-worked vege-
table, asked a thin, elderly man to return his
bananas or his money. When the police arrived,
Wong, with flashing eyes, was pointing to a small
boy in a straw hat as the impostor who had taken
his ducats. The real miscreant he altogether
neglected.
* * * *
Near Gunnedah (N.S.W.), some more than
usually poetic settlers have given their paddocks
a park-like appearance by leaving a few pine trees
standing, which they have trimmed. Almost in-
variably the N.S.W. cocky clears an acre and
plants his bark palace in the centre of the clearing,
so that'passers by can view his domestic arrange-
ments, which are not princely, as a rule. By
judicious thinning, he could have natural avenues
and patches of shade. No wonder the cocky is a
gloomy person, when the view from his verandah
consists of a dreary grey vista, be-ribbed with
skeletons of trees and obscured by a flannel-girt
clothes-line and a stack of jam tins.
• • • •
“D.” : The best white ant exterminator
is the little black ant. Trail him on to their
camp with a few grains of sugar, and for days
afterwards a long train of blacks will be seen
carting home the bodies of whites killed in battle.
The small black ant suffers severely from Japanese
big head. Once watched two of them trying to shift
a dead beetle that weighed about a quarter of a
pound. After each pull they would stand back
and consult, then rush in again. After four
hours’ hard work they gave the job up and walked
away together, but even then every few inches
they would stop and wipe the perspiration off
their brows, and look disconsolately back. I left
them plugging each other to find out whose fault
it was the beetle wouldn’t budge.
• * »
“ Elmore ” : lie lyre-
birds’ mimicry. Was up at
the head of the Buffalo
River with a mate, strip-
ping bark. We had brought
half-a-dozen traps with us
for rabbits, but found them
very scarce. One evening,
after being three days with-
out meat, we heard terrific
squealing out where the
traps were set. “ There’s
a couple caught at last,”
yelled my mate. “Get a
fire on. We’ll have stew
for tea.” I bustled round
peeling spuds and onions.
Mate came back without
the rabbits. “ G’ould have
sworn they w r ere rabbits
squealing,” he grumbled,
“ but none of the traps is
touched.” As he spoke the
squealing started again. We
made for the traps, and as
we got near them heard dis-
tinctly the rattle of trap
chains and more squealing.
“No mistake this time,” I
said; yet still not a trap
was disturbed. While we
were trying to solve the
mystery a laugh rang out as
natural as any jackass could
do it. We both “ tumbled ”
at once ; and though we couldn’t see the lyre-bird
we listened to him as he went through his perform-
ance, even to the ringing tap of the setter, driving
home the peg. No one, to my knowledge, had
ever trapj>ed there before. [The lyre-bird pro-
bably learnt its imitation from a gramaphone.—
Ed. B.]
’>■*»#
“ J.E.W.” : Know a half-caste in W.A.
who can give the average white man points in
most things. The progeny of a white squatter
and a Westralian gin, he is a fine, tall man, with
the forehead of a philosopher and the build of a
champion fighter. He has been drover, pearler,
farm-hand—everything nearly except prospector
and pen-j ostler. And he can talk like Deakin.
Was once present when this curiosity fairly broke
up a company by his knowledge of Spencer and
Darwin. He is well up in Mill, Huxley, and
Hume, and has even read some of the classics—in
translation, of course. The same phenomenon
once killed a nor’-west nigger with a punch on the
jaw. He then rode 300 miles to the nearest police
station and gave himself up, and was afterwards
acquitted, being able to prove that the nig. had
aimed first blow with a spear. These are not
aboriginalies ; these are facts.
* • * •
“A.P.R.” : Saw three turkey-gobblers re-
cently strutting round a game cock, at whom they
chortled with discreet vehemence. The latter
affected supreme contempt and pecked at a straw,
though he watched them keenly. Suddenly No. 1
gobbler threw himself at the cock, but missed, and
stood on his head. Then No. 2 stood on the
rooster’s back, and got severely spurred, but
meanwhile No. 3 had seized the cock by the comb.
The latter spurred him off, and wheeling round,
calmly pecked a piece out of top-knot of No. 1,
who was planning a cowardly rear assault. For
an hour the absurd contest raged. Finally at
dusk 1 saw three bedraggled and bleeding gobblers
trot off in Indian file to their wood-heap, pursued
by a lame rooster, who flew into his tree, shoved
two hens off his roost, and flapped his wings. He
didn’t crow ; the occasion was unworthy.
ARITHMETIC.
BARBER (to hesitating customer peeping in): “ You're next, sir—only one before you—
you’ll be third!”
“Thurla”: “ R.H.A.” writes of “the
loud, booming noise
made at night by the
small quail” (B.
20/10/’O4). Strange that
these birds do not make
similar noises during
the daytime. Bush
people credit the por-
cupine, bronzewing
pigeon, quail, and also
the black snake with
being the author of
these queer nocturnal
sounds. And recently
at sundown, hearing
the peculiar “Woot,
woot, whoop,” I took
my gun along and made
towards the noise. I
started up a big hare
from about the place
where the noise had
been. Having laid him
low, and seeing no other
animal or bird, concluded that
the hare had been calling to his
mate. Since then have seen a hare
in the act. It reared itself on its hind
legs, and with head thrown well back, called loudly,
“ Woot, woot, whoop,” and getting an answer
from another quarter, it cantered away towards
the sound.
* » • »
“ Nym.” about stings :
The bull-ant’s is an easy first for suddenness, pain, and
force, but ’tissoon over ; the river-hornet’s comes second ;
the scorpion’s third ; the horn bee’s a poor fourth. The
centipede conies sixth, unless he strikes you fair, which is
seldom ; then he runs up third. The scorpion’s bite is
like a hot wire coursing through the system.
* • » *
“8.5.” : That splendid flytrap, the house
spider, is popularly supposed to be poisonous, but
the insect is libelled. I have been bitten, and
experienced no ill effects. But know a man, re-
Eutedly -plucky, who tramped 10 miles to a doctor
ecause a spider had bitten him. “It was one of
them black devils with a red streak on it,” he
explained ; “ s’pose I’ll lose me bloomin’ arm.” He
only lost his guinea.
Quite a number of Hawlcesbury Rive?
(N.S.W.) residents make a decent living by
gathering the leaves, or rather fronds, of the
beautiful native fan palm, which grows in hun-
dreds of thousands in that district. The fronds
are dried, then compressed and packed into large
flat cases, and exported, in great quantities
annually, to Germany, where they are converted
into the familiar palm fan.
£ * * $
“ Elmore ” : Staying with some friends in
the country, the boy (aged about 11), asked how
he got hares, said : “Run ’em down myself.” I
went with him up to the crop paddock, just ripen-
ing. There were about 40 acres of wheat and five
acres of pumpkins, and below a creek. Going
into the pumpkins, the boy started a hare, which
made straight for the wheat; but, before it had
gone 100yds., the boy had it and brought it to me.
I noticed how distended it was, and, opening,
found the paunch nearly bursting with wheat.
The boy caught 14 that morning. Puss cannot
run after a feed of wheat and a drink of water.
FISHERMEN IN TOPHET.
THE LOBSTERS TAKE A TURN.
“ H. J.L.” : I know parts of Torres Straits
where dugong swarm at season ; some run up to
lOcwt. Commercially, the only profitable way, I
believe, to get them is by netting, which is the
method around Brisbane. Don’t know prices of
oil and bacon, but was offered Bd. a lb. for cured
hide of dugong, and, assuming same runs into
lcwt. per beast, there should be money in it.
• * * *
“ Outcast ” : Heard of a party of bushmen
who had everything but eggs for the construction
of an able-bodied bush plum-duff, and as a substi-
tute for this necessary constituent they used what
they afterwards found to be carpet snakes’ eggs.
They mistook them for the soft-shelled eggs of
some wild bird. The duff went down O.K.
“WHEN YOUR BACK’S AGAINST THE WALL!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though it’s fine to lounge and liquor
And make love to girls in bars,
While your coin flies quick and quicker
And you smoke the best cigars ;
Though your swell friends say “ good fellow ”
As you shout for one and all,
Yet there comes a savage pleasure
When your back’s against the wall !
When you’re out of luck, and thinking
How a trifling loan you’ll float,
And your flash friends go in drinking
Never asking ’bout your throat;
Oh, you think yourself a martyr,
And you feel a glorious gall
Towards the world and all its baseness,
And your back’s against the wall !
Then there comes a poor Bohemian
With the price of two long beers,
And his kind request to join him
Almost melts you into tears ;
And the humble beer you’re sipping
In the company of “ brain ”
Is a nectar far outstripping
All the glories of champagne !
When you’re fondly loved and trusted
By some girl with starlit eyes,
It’s a mellow, easy blessing
Which you never fully prize ;
But if the maiden jilts you
And she’s at another’s call,
Oh, you nurse a sweet hurt feeling,
And your back’s against the wall!
So it is in all your troubles
When misfortune’s clouds o’erhang,
And bad luck back on you doubles
Like a blessed boomerang !
Oh, it’s then you clench your molars
And Life’s blows you fiercely stall,
Yes ! you feel a savage pleasure
When your back’s against the wall!
W.J.H.
EVOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Four souls from the nest of Heaven were cast,
Half-fledged and with pinions weak,
Who nothing had known of the buffeting blast,
The talon, the tooth, or the beak.
Now one has developed the bill of a hawk,
And battens on things unseen ;
Whilst one like a solemn old jackdaw can talk,
And says what he doesn’t mean.
And one pretty birdie with plumage grand
Now frets in a gilded cage,
And sings in a language few understand
A song of ineffable rage.
And one who with stolid, abstracted air,
Has watched what has come to pass,
Slowly wags his grey head at the raven Care,
And laughs—like this
OLD JACKASS.


y
G/inapps
AS GOOD
FOR
WOMEN
AS
FOR MEN.
NOTED FOR
Wedding
Presents
We have been for very many years.
We have been selling them for
three-quarters of a century.
Electro-plate and Glass Preserve
Jar, 8/6
We cull the best and cheapest from each of the world’s reliable makers.
We pay Spot Cash in London for them. Large Cash buyers are
shown all the Latest Novelties.
Our stock is simply replete with all the charming Silver Goods that
go to make a home so beautiful. Ali< at London Prices —plus duty.
Best Electro-plate and Glass Preserve
Jar, 11/6
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Silas Snell ” re the perils of miners :
Bates and Cameron, and four others, had the contract
for sinking the shaft of the Joker Quartz Mining Co. a
further 150 ft., and they were getting along excellently,
when Wilson, one of the bracemen, started his tear ; and
Wilson’s tear was terrific. A man could not be found to
take his place in Musk Gully, so Reynolds and O’Brien
worked long shifts, and cursed Wilson nightly. The shaft
of the Joker Q.M. Co. was situated in a wooded gully
between timbered hills. There were no neighboring
mines, and the nearest residence was two miles distant.
Reynolds and O’Brien had been doing twelve-hour shifts
for eight days, when O’Brien knocked-up, and began to
comfort his soul with beer. There was no braceman for
the afternoon shift on Tuesday, but the whip boy was
careful, and the horse educated, and Bates and Cameron
resolved to go below and square up. They had been at
work about an hour, when suddenly the* big wooden
bucket, laden with centres and chocks, crashed into the
shaft and burst. Bates and Cameron escaped destruction
by a miracle. Bates’s leg was broken, Cameron’s scalp was
lifted, but in the silence that followed he heard the shrill
voice of the whip-boy crying : “ Look out, below ! Wilson’s
come, and he’s in the horrors ! ” There followed sounds of
a scuffle—a scream, and then a thud in the shaft. This
time it was the whip-boy. Then, with two of the logs of
a “set,” Bates and Cameron fashioned a hasty barricade.
Then came the second bucket. It was followed by a
shower of logs, rocks, picks, and mullock. There was a
brief interlude before Cameron heard Wilson cursing
again, and the beating of hoofs above. This ended in a
wild yell, and a moment later a heavy body came bump-
ing down the shaft, tearing out 20ft. of centres. It was
the whip-horse. So far Cameron and Bates were living,
but the whip-boy had. ceased to breathe. The men
waited, cowering, for the next manifestation. Wilson
was laughing gaily down the shaft, and uttering cries
implying that in his exuberant imagination he was bom-
barding his enemies in Hell. “Look up, below ! ” screamed
the braceman. There were thuds of something rebound-
ing on the centres, and another body plunged into the
slush beside the horse. This time it was Wilson. Then
there was peace in Musk Gully till Reynolds came on to
do his shift at the Joker.
* • * *
“M.Kn.”: A favorite dish amongst the
blacks out Cooper’s Creek way is prepared as
follows: —When a good shower of rain has fallen
after a drought, swarms of “ wood-lice” come out
of the cracked ground. As soon as the grass dries
sufficiently the gins light a ring of fire around the
insects, and slowly burn towards the centre,
gradually converging the insects into a heap.
They then scrape them into a cooliman (a canoe-
shaped dish made of bark, about three feet long,
one foot wide and six inches deep) until it is
about two-thirds full. They have round stones,
about three inches in diameter, ready-heated in a
fire, which they throw amongst the crawling lice,
rolling them about until the insects are suffi-
ciently cooked, when they turn a bright red
instead of a dusky grey. They are then ground
up between two stones with nardoo seed. The
gins occasionally, during the process, squirt water
out of their mouths over the mass. It is made
into cakes, cooked on the coals, and apparently
eaten with the greatest gusto. Whites who have
had the courage to eat it state that it is very
palatable, with a slightly cayenne-peppery taste.
* * * *
“H.S.R.”: The sundowner, who is
generally a good roadster, is not always one
from choice. In the remote past he was
probably a worker, and only degenerated into
the sundowner through years of almost hopeless
search for. a job. He has solved the problem of
how to live on nothing a day, and earn it.
Ostensibly looking for work, he has got the
hardest of all work waltzing matilda about the
bush, and although a cut above slum life in cities,
it is one of the most miserable of existences.
This is the person to whom the miserable ground
parrot alludes as “going about looking for work,
and praying to God not to find it.” " He is the
modern wandering Jew.
HE MOURNED THE FRIEND.
THE GIRL : “What’s up? ”
THE MAN: “I introduced Vera, my fianete, to Jack Smith. Now they're married!
And only to think that Jack was my best friend, tool"
THE GIRL: “ Oh, cheer up, there are plenty of good girls yet in the world."
THE MAN : “I know that—but FRIENDS are scarce!"
In the early days, when the settler never
tasted his own meat except when visiting his
neighbor, it was customary for stockmen to use
the horses on the next station whenever oppor-
tunity arose. There were no fences then, and the
“hrr>l-pn” , , , ...
broken horses were commandeered by night,
being known by their banged tails. One station
became famous for its “ outlaws choose as they
would, the next-door pilferers found the stolen gee-
gees rpe-nlar mnn MWo + i
f man-killers. In fact, two legs were
broken and sundry bones fractured before the
marauders discovered that the squatter had
maliciously adopted the low-down practice of
banging his horses’ tails before they were broken,
THE GREAT GRASS QUESTION.
MAGDOUGAL (arrested for cattle-stealing): “I
admeet I killed the beast, and I ken rerra weel
that I ate the flesh, but, mon, all flesh is grass,
and if the coo waive mine the grass was and I
can prove it !”
“Rita S.” informs “Timbarra” she has
claws •
“ Timbarra ” (B. 5/l’/05) starts the New Year by pulling
my hair re Gippsland bullock-punchers. Well, I wrote of
what I know. A few years ago, a thresher and portable
engine passed along the road here, drawn by eight and
six bullocks respectively. The lads driving don’t speak
half-a-dozen words to the team all day, and are in my
class at Sunday-school. They don’t swear. “ Timbarra ”
may be an authority on jackass bashing and gohanna
chasing, but if he tries to pull my hair again, I’ll turn a
searchlight on his general ignorance.
* * * *
“ J.C.” : Where were the police while
“Kooka” and other Bulletin correspondents
were dynamiting fish ? I did that sort of thing
once on the Hauraki Gulf, and harrowed the
waters of Auckland Harbor, but being resident
now close to a police station inland, I am compe-
tent to reprove unsportsmanlike Waltons of the
“Kooka” brand. Our explosive was a miner’s
gelignite cartridge. The concussion caused by its
bursting disabled, but did not kill, the mullet or
herring. Have recovered 43, per dingy, from one
shoal of mullet. Records of schnapper, kahuwai,
hapuku, and other fish which do not shoal are not
so great. They recover quickly from the shock
and subsequently claim the old age pension. But
the real murderous effect of the explosion is the in-
jury to the spawn, which is an addled egg thence-
forth.
‘ ‘ Dycolt ” : Be big edible Australian
oysters (8., 2/6/’O4). To say that any Australian
oyster measures “more than a foot across” is, of
course, romancing. At the same time we can
b° a . st of s ?“ e bi ? °y sters ’ , The
loving scribe ever happened across was along the
jf.Q. coast, between the Mossman and Daintree
rivers. They varied from about sto 7in. across,
and were as sweet as any Brisbane-water shells
retailed in Sydney. We used to sail along that
coast in a small cutter, and at meal times w r ent
a^shore with a bottle 0 f vinegar and tins of salt and
pe pper. These large oysters are easily opened,
much more easily than the small, knotty ones,
They’re there in tons too, yet no one has had
enterprise enough so far to take a shipload south.
“ Wyung ” : The earliest bush bird
is the wagtail. Also, the latest bush
bird is the wagtail. He is up before
the magpie, and he is around and war-
bling after the mopoke has shut his
face and gone to bunk. I live right
at the Mitchell River, and have been
out on it every hour that there is
on a clock scores of times, but I
never got there before the wag-
fies, not even starting the day
efore. Latest I have heard the
mopoke has been 1 a.m. I’ll defy
anyone to phoneticise the mopokes
remarks. I tried for half an hour,
and in that time he got in all the
variations from “moraporak” to
“ moopook,” and sometimes the
“m” was a “w.”
* - * #
“ Timbarra ” : Add to the
list of Australian mimics the thrush.
Every evening just at dusk, one
perches in a hedge in front of iny
house and holds a little bird con-
cert on its own, giving the trill and
flow of the canary, the cry of the
mud lark, the unbirdlike clattering
and snapping of the starling ; and
next a flood of melody—the thrush’s
own notes. Then I hear the pecu-
liar cry of a plover issuing from the
middle of the hedge, quickly fol-
lowed by that of a minah. By way
of variety, sometimes, the thrush lets
go the weird noise of a tank-engine,
which, though lacking in power, is
startlingly real.
“ Itan ” : Be the instinct of birds. For
many years flocks of sparrows nested and roosted
inside the folds of ivy which clustered around the
dead branches of an old pear-tree at Singleton
(N.S.W.). A few weeks ago the occupant of an
adjacent house noticed a great chattering and
chirping amongst the sparrows, and just before
dusk they left in a body and did not return. Two
days later one of the limbs of the tree in which the
birds had been accustomed to seek refuge snapped
off at the base from dry rot, and brought down
deserted sparrow-town with a crash.
* * * *
“Homo”: The daily press chronicles
among its bush-fire items that a resident of
Invermay (Vic.) lost four acres of grass, and
another one, two acres. This conveys but a faint
idea of the appalling loss. It would be no exag-
geration to say that the sustenance of half-a dozen
grasshoppers vanished in this awful conflagration.
I trust the herbage in The Bulletin’s back-yard
escaped the ravages of the fire fiend.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address mast appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
C.C.L. : The lady, having been divorced three
times, is sure to be a nice woman... .H.J.L. : Your loath-
some suggestion to keep a human corpse decaying until
there “ emanates from mouth and nostrils a hideously
lambent evanescent phosphoric blue flame,” duly re-
ceived. Christmas pudding has a curious result on some
f01k... .Nicky : Sicky Nemo : You take such pains to
conceal all hint of your identity and purpose that we
can’t make out what you are driving at. No need to be
so mysterious with a newspaper editor who, if he knows
his business, is as secret with confidences as any father
confessor... ..Justice : Your local bobby actually carries
home food for his pigs when in uniform. And you write
to Tiie Bulletin to “expose” the dreadful crime ! This
paper tries to believe that it deals with matters of Aus-
tralian interest ; but it gets rude shocks sometimes
A.N. : Only really good point is the title, “ The Un-
sophisticated Barmaid,” which has a vague, romantic sug-
gestion of the days when we drank unsophisticated gin
Labor : Well, The Bulletin hasn’t gone into the merits of
the Newcastle trouble because it reckons that the Arbi-
tration Court has as much right to be respected as any
other court of justice, and that therefore matters pending
before it shouldn’t be subjects of newspaper discussion.
But, allowing that the order of the Court for miners to do
wheelers’ work is wrong, which it may be, that doesn’t
justify a strike ; violence is never justifiable when
peaceable legal redress is available. And supposing
the wheelers’ contention to be correct, that the custom
of the Newcastle coal district does not warrant
a reduction of the wheelers’ wages as a corollary to the
reduction of the sell.ng price of coal, still the wheelers
were not justified in striking. They might have, as the
Lithgow smelters did, accepted the reduction under pro-
test, gone on working and appealed to the court for re-
dress. In the Lithgow case the court held that the reduc-
tion enforced was not warranted, restored the old rate of
pay, and ordered the employers to pay over all the money-
short-paid since the reduction. To sum up : The work-
man should not strike when he has the chance
of getting redress from a court of justice, and
should be even content to put up with a little injus-
tice to maintain the principle of industrial arbitra-
tion. The principle is worth interest of that sort....
H.A. : Profoundly unpleasant in subject, and not skil-
fully enough done to atone for the fact Edelweiss:
There’s pathos in it, but you effectually smother the fact
with your huge words and pretentious sentences....
Hindoo : Metre of your cricket poem gets knocked out
every over, and stumped each stanza.... E. F. : Yes, but
the playwright’s name was suppressed Y.F.M. : You
can’t expect the average daily paper in Australia to know
the meaning of the word “ decimated.” Their men
nowadays are not paid to understand out-of-the-way
words J.W.B. : Don’t see much to cavil at C.O.H. :
Hardly up : so much “ Aboriginally ” matter comes in
nowadays that we’ve had to raise the standard of accept-
ance O.C.C. : True enough ; but almost as much can
be said against teaching English history'. The Bulletin
would favor teaching Australian history first; then the
history of all the English-speaking peoples; afterwards
enough of the world’s history to give a sense of perspec-
tive... .A.S. : Tasmanian stuff shows only' a gleam here
and there... .E.L.M. ; Not a successful venture in a very
difficult class of work St. M. : No Australian interest.
....C.B.C. : Your “ Dream of Love” suggests that you
should change your supper diet... .Omar : Good notion ;
treatment ineffective Furnley M. : Of your batch two
strike The Bull.’s eye... Barbara : Pretty-pretty simplicity.
.... Maggie K. : Same theme has been too often treated
before Fred A. : Hardly suitable. ..A.L.S. : You don’t
dress your Xmas ham well enough Lance J.S. ; Mere
album verse John R. : No use to Bulletin—Alone:
“The Boles” too cramped... .Sydney Cope: “Lonely
Grave” is a soft, wooshv sob in soft, sodden verse, and
makes us tired ; “ The Old Racer ” is better, but not quite
up. You sutler from an overdose of sympathy M.J.W. :
Too many thees and thous in the bird item. “ Moonrise ”
opens well, and is then obscured by dark clouds.... Rei
Panes: “Memory” accepted... .Rita S. : “Breaking”
deals with a subject that several poets have already had a
fling at....Sibi: Probably the unfortunate publication
finds that the only way to distribute its Xmas number....
G.E.H. : One lot of larrikin lingo was all right, but no
more C.N. : “The Rack” not racking enough
Bushgirl: (1) In short, it was a hot day. (2) Yes, some
improvement, but you need to condense much more....
Billy Scott: Small lie, long yarn... .R.W. : Boiled
down, A meets B, whom he takes for a spinster
at a ball. They flirt, when enter suddenly B’s hus-
band with a large H. Then nothing happens....
J.J. : Argument mostly just, but it wanders all over the
place.... Digby Chicks: No, not chickens; tough old
f0w15.... Cobbitty : “The Colt” nearly good enough to
be yarded H.J.L. : It’s time the aboriginaliars let the
“ earliest bird ” go to roost....MJk.v White : Rhymes too
thin T.A.N. : It’s rather well done, but the yarn of
the bushman who meets a girl and is taken down has
been so very often yarned before. ..Nardoo : Can’t guaran-
tee to return pars ; it’s not the postage that matters, but
the enormous amount of clerical labor that would be in-
volved. We get baskets of pars every week, and the
only feasible plan of sorting them out is to file what are
wanted and to tear up what are not Bamboo: The
coal poem is the brighter, but that idea has been used
before... .E.L.L. : Well not exactly, but pretty bad...
C. A. B. : Sorry, but pars, are too long-drawn-out for the
slight interest Hughs.: Better not send us anything
you have previously sent to another paper.
Unsuitable : M.M.,'0.5., 8.H., E.S.B.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.S. : Bowling slaughter picture too crude Fred. B.:
Joke too strained... .G.E.B. : Sorry none suitable, even
as a suggestion Dude : No hope at all of drawing; we
pay for suggestions for pictures if they are good enough;
can’t return sketches unless stamps are sent for postage.
Unsuitable : Alan M., Cross Nibs, A.M., H.C.W.
A correspondent of S.A. Register, de-
scribing a Far North corroboree, says that when all
was over the three white men present were invited
to remain till midnight, when the lubras would
appear and dance in the “altogether.” He says
they all went home immediately. But is that a
native custom, or has the Australian native bor-
rowed the methods of Port Said and Shanghai ?
MISS FANNIE GRAY—the first Victorienne to
qualify at the Dental College of Victoria.
“L.C.” : I could give evidence before a
commission to investigate the worship of the cow.
Know an intelligent man who had a lovely little
vineyard, in which he took great pride. But the
dairying microbe bit him, and he rooted up 50
acres of vines to make a cow pasture. He draws a
good cheque now from the neighboring creamery,
but he is a changed man. The wine-press is still,
and boon companions no longer haunt his cellar on
Sunday afternoons ; also his once light-hearted
sons and daughters have lost the gaiety that
became so well the jolly vigneron’s family, for
they have to rise at unholy hours to milk and
chambermaid 50 or more cows, and when they
fall into bed late at night it is to dream of
“Sukey” and “Strawberry,” instead of lordly
vats, the wine-press of old romance, and the juice
that maketh glad the heart of man.
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
“ Sailor-man ” : We were off a small South
American port, and the climate was like a damp
corner in Hades. The meat in the harness-cask
groaned aloud. The skipper swore it was as sweet
as a nut. We demanded to see the Consul. When
he came alongside he was met at the gangway by
the old man, who took him down into the cuddy.
Presently we heard a sweet gurgling sound.
“Nobbled !” said English Bill; “the game’s up,
boys.” The Consul came on deck and demanded
our grievance. English Bill was spokesman.
“ Show me the meat,” the Consul commanded.
He was led aft to the harness-cask. With inju-
dicious zeal, he whipped off the lid, and staggered
back, half-stunned. But he came on again, and,
with his fingers protecting his nose, bent again
over the cask. “ Nothing wrong with the beef ! ”
he sniffed. “Beautiful beef ! Usual case of
chronic grumbling. Quite sympathise with you,
captain.” All hands were then fined two-and-six
apiece for making a frivolous complaint, and the
beef hummed gaily on.


" Yownp /nerr dne "tlje
>n
w^n'T'«f Colltgj,
t« sl fol)
' fl i e -jW(
Jy
y^M r Re 14 wa^sAy
yy 2(t \
/ Ceortfc" C\nf I
/ ? hel|> ? K , ,
i '- Helb • No. -
off ground f or
) " <^icK
M
were C*itc.nt C.
VeH PK€ 'fwe lessons »n t^ e
Science <0 our
An hnornihP "before
worK Keejb
y2L_ these precious y°°*%
X I rvjen d,f
It is
no stefs h^ ve
bear! to
establish wine idjoolj
-V"
/A'lgel or J evil •
i
/ obin.ort growers f
our 4lf< Sl^rlm^f>es r
:-" iW b °4l y°“jO
. ;
• friend farmer e'/ejr fan
S^ 1 worKifronn
//d\] light til) 4yK j |
/ cle2> l V'ng *oS*cts I J
rani %<i Crops >as. ’ 111
y\%'j Kr 7 b y
/'ifie. Sun What'
-ris * u ty
£ -fo dinner.
HaIIo! wofdo^..
'you W^nf
• ■you go to fie* * /
nice ripe f<9 ,V.
find tfe tirar ve ! e ?V
‘if completely fjolloW . /
'■ Pont VOM <inK weVft etfet. en«ms»» ? v
■ V Ive sworn.to K
Crof> i'H do A' . .if
fly
in oi'e^f-flocks
y a,lvms
jjeofle -
]f \°*
t],S Lc-ray^j r.b
, a,s s°°n *\ s 'i e ,
7,
rs\ for H's A
n, [pc-wm ten«n) Q
-time 2 A M.
"Qofch trioM"
' |rje f4Ve m , ' cs h f )
■'Tlje stVW '<. <* ground
'fee4ms birdH Vj*s 4
4ief S l^ r § el .jf 111 J|
Consist's of io t /V*
Saclj &.S ctrTvrorroS- /|\
grabs 7—jL-A—
HL wron? H
Mk Rev. m
Iglllllft C'ne ono ||
Ik
<W«'
4d s4 oy/
: Vfis. bon*'M«}
- bl« - mn?d *—,. )»
'tfar grab on Y/e4ties4a.y w\s sfeje,
/oy» of irjo
during ' l s* W*«X!s*r,
STARLINGS AND OTHER NUISANCES.


It has transpired that a N.S. W. milk-
dealer has made£Boo “clear” profitinone
year on the water alone with which he
diluted the,staple. Clear profit, indeed !
Convinced that there is more money in
water than in High Art, “ Hop ” has
knocked off a little invention which he
thinks of floating into a company
soon. There will be water enough in it,
be says, to float the Russian Navy
when the Japs get through with it.
EXPLANATIONS.
■X Ifon tank, modelled mote or less after
a cow.
B—Suction pipe, let into unlimited under-
ground water reservoir.
CC" Practical tail, acting as pump-handle.
D—Down pipe, connecting with water-shed
(in this case a cow-shed) as.an auxiliary
supply.
b, c, d, e—Service pipes.
E—Catchment Area, for the “clear”
profits.
F—Opening, to admit water and things.
Apply to Religious Editor, Bulletin, for prospectus.
This is what ought to be done to the weather-pro-
phet, who sits down in the cellar of the Observa-
y tOI 7 atl d predicts “Another Heat Wave.”
\ When the spark from a passing choo-choo /
, \ got in its fine work, guess lie would j
( ) sigh for his summer clothes > / J
CUPID IN A NEW CHARACTER,
t at t U hTf ° f the iVorthern Rivers plague out- ’
and died through My^in
tartac
Certain managers of Sydney
theatres are thinking of supplying
their patrons with free refreshments
during performances. Let us imagine a melodrama conducted upon such lines.
“ Scoun-der-r-rel ! ’’ shrieks the Virtuous Hero to the Polished Villain, as the
curtain falls on the second act. ‘‘These insults can only be wiped out in ”
“ Blood puddin’ 1 ” yells the caterer’s boy in front, who loses no time in passing
the refreshments.
DIDN’T KNOW IT WAS LOADED.
A peculiar explosion occurred in the yard at
the rear of Messrs. Aylett Brothers’ store, near
Wagga.
The firm does a large business as wine sellers,
and the two brothers were, during the cool ol
Friday evening last; preparing to “sulphur" a
cask preparatory to its return. Throughout
the heat of the day.the cask had been lying in
the yard buiig' downwards, and had to be turned
to admit of the sulphuring process being carried
out. This consists in inserting a lighted sul-
phur torch into the cask through the bung-
holt.
No sooner was this done than a terrific explo-
sion occurred, which was heard a mile away.
The explosion blew out both the heads of the
cask, a portion of one striking Alfred Aylett ’
on the knee, breaking the cap, and inflicting
othtr serious injuries. Other fragments smash- •
ed a picket fence, and one piece was carried a <
distance of ZoO yard®.
ORDER BY THE CZAR.
“The Czar, in an army order announcing the
fall of Port Arthur, exhorts ‘my brave soldiers
and sailors not to allow the sorrow caused by the
fall to discourage you. The enemy is strong and
brave, and it is extremely difficult to sustain a
struggle 10,000 versts (6000 miles) from home, but
J am confident the hour of victory is striking.’ ”
but the worst of it is, it’s striking the
wrong party,
MILK AND OTHER MIXTURES.


A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style Gold Pearl
Rod or Blue Stone
PHOTO. PENDANT,
15s 6d, 17s 6d.
Extra Large, 20s.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
I<* Cd, 15s, 255, 80s, 40s, 50s.
E.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doe Skin TOBACCO POUCH,
Sterling Silver Shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d,
7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, Set Pure
White Double-cut Diamonds, £l7 10s.
Diamonds and Rubies, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Diamond BRACELET, 3 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, with Safety Chain, £5.
Diamonds and 2 Rubies, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open Face Key-
less WATCHES, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s,
255, 30s, £2.
Solid Silver, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £4. Gold, £2, £3, £4, £5,
£6, £7 10s, to £2O.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Double Crescent and Bar BROOCH,
set with Diamond and Rubies, and Whole
Pearl Centre, £l2 10s.
Single Crescent, £8 10s.
A. S VUNDERS.
Gold Curb Padlock '..IACELET, Plain or Chased,
255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s; 15ct Gold, £2 10s.
£3, £4, £5.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pear]-set Star PENDANT or
BROOCH, 15ct Gold, with
Sapphire in Centre, £7 10a.
All Pearls, £6 10s.
Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£8 10s, £lO.
Our full
Catalogue
Of Watches,
Clocks,
Jewellery,
Silver-plate,
Leather Goods,
Purses, and
Optical Goods
Posted
Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Set
Heart CHARM,
IVs 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Fashion Gold Half-chased Japanese Bamboo
BRACELET, with Safety Chain, £3.
Smaller, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna
Forget CHARM,
10s 6d.
Xmas.
Gifts.
Our immense stock
is replete with them.
Buying for spot cash
direct, we save ail
middlemen’s profits,
and can therefore,
and do give you,
unequalled values.
Posted
Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather
PURSE and CARD CASE
Combined, Pure Silver
Mounts, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, Os 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 153, 20s.
A. SAUNDKIiS.
Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Boot CHARM,
5s 6d.
Silver, 2s.
Also Heart,
Anchor, Bell,
Cross, or
Wishbone.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Double
Buckle RING, 17s 6d.
15ct Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-bar BROOCH, Set with Pure
White Double-cut Diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9ct Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s 6>d, 10s 6d; 15ct Gold,
15s, Extra Heavy 255; 18ct Gold, 20s, Extra
Heavy, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Lily Spray Pearl Set Knot
BROOCH, £4 10s.
Exquisitely Neat.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Band RINGS,
12s Gd, 15s; 15ct
Gold, 20s, 255; 18ct
Gold, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Handsomely
Chased MATCH BOX, 7s 6d,
10s, 12s Gd, 15s.
Similar Styles, 5s Gd, 6s 6d,
8s Gd, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold MEDALS in Various
Patterns, 15s 17a 6d,
20s, 255, 30s; 15et, £2.
£2 10s, £3.
Presentation Medals i
Speciality.
A. SAUNDERS.
OTd Pearl-set Bird and Spray BROOCH,
17s 6d.
A New Design,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold-mounted New Zealand Greenstone Fish
PENDANT, 17s 6d, 265.
A. SAUNDERS.
]Bct Gold 4 Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds and 2 Sap-
phires or Rubies,
£7 10s.
All Diamonds,
£l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Pure
Double-cut Diamonds
and Sapphire RING,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold 2 Heart
Opals, 3 Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 5 Fiery
Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
£3 10s.
f.
18ct Gold Half-hoop 5
Pure White Double-
cut Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller, £l2 10s.
15et Gold Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond, £2, £2 10s,
£3.
Ruby or Sapphire,
255, 30s.
27/6
NEW
IDEAS!
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style Gold-mounted New Zea-
land Greenstone Best. Wishes Heart
PENDANT, 27s Gd. Kin-Ora,
Pearl-set Monograms, or
Any Special Design
Made to Order.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s Gd,
12s Gd, 15s,
20s, 255, 30s,
40s, 50s.
The x
Acme
of
Fashion.
TBjf
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 9
Sparks and Ruby, COs.
v
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold Half-hoop
5 Double-cut Dia-
monds, £5.
Larger Diamonds,
£6, £7 10s, £B,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ot Gold Pure
Donnie -cut Diamond,
£2, £2 10s, £o.
Price to Size of
Diamond.
mmm
A. SAUNDERS.
15ot Gold Diamond
and Rubies or Sap-
phires. 80s.
In 6 Different Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold,
3 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold
Pure Diamond
and Pearls,
255, 30s, £2.
f
The Loro Watch
Between Me
$ Thee
m
A. SAUNDERS. '
Gold Mizpah Heart
CHARM, 8s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 6s 6d.
ŧ
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird and Spray Bar BROOOH,
ss.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 3-bar Pearl and Ruby or Sapphire Scroll
BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Non-magnetic, Strong, Reliable Knockabout
WATCHES, Our Unrivalled Dust and Watei
proof; Cases, 20s.
London Lever, 255. Extra Jewelled, 30s,
Cheaper Lines, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
Every Guaranteed.
Will be Exchanged if not Satisfactory.
Nickel
20/-
Silver,^
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-bar Opal and 4 Diamond
BROOCH, £2 10s.
A Tasty Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies' Amethyst GLOVE HOOK,
2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d, 15a.
Other Styles, 10s 6d,
17s 6d, 20s, 255.
Silver, 2s 6d.
Gold Luck Moot CHARM, 5s 6d.
Gold Pin, Knob, and Chain, 10s 6d.
BACK
FR
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver GLOVE MIRROR, Size of Above,
3s 6d.
They are Neat, Convenient, and the Latest Style.
i
- A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Style Gold Bar Amethyst-set
BROOCH, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Bar BROOCH, Set with
Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires,
255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d; 15ct
Gold, 255.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s 6d.
Solid
Silver
£2 lO
Gold
Cased,
£A.
A. SAUNDERS.
Waltham WATCHES, Solid Silver Hunting
Cases, Extra Quality Movements, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5.
Gold Patent Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5,
£2O, £25.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
mmmzmmzi
m
mg
BflW! f- -
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid-Gold CHAINS. Single or Double, £3.
£3 10s, £i, £4 10s, £5; 15ct Gold, £5 10s, £6
10s, £7, £B, £lO.
Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 208.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Chased Oval
and Bar LINKS, 20s.
15ct Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold MUFF CHAINS, in Every Style
and Pattern Made,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6,
£7, £B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Sliisld and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 20s, 255;
15ct Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Silver, la 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Purse. Polished Crocodile Leather, Heavy
Sterling- Silver Mounts, 30s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s Pd. 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 25*.
Gold-mounted, 355, 40s, 42s 6d, 455, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER
AND OPTICIAN,
809 811, 813 815. 817
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Railway Station.)


TYPEWRITERS.
t
The
Typewriter,
THE MOST PERFECT MACHINE ON
THE MARKET TO-DAY.
LIGHTEST TOUCH (2£oz.) ; UNLIMITED SPEED.
World’s Record Holder—243 words per minute—St.
Louis World’s Fair, July, 1904.
Ambitious operators no longer hampered by
mechanical limits to speed.
As used by The Bulletin, Dalgety & Co., Govt.
Offices, and leading firms and schools.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
(The Lingham Importing Co. Ltd.
• 3 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, I,td., is
eeparata’y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
83T - BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. -®(J
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
ţ
CONGREVES
BALSAMIC
LIX
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
. CONSUMPTION.
OF ATT. CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price 6cfL., Post Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckhain, London, S.E., England
4 Garments for the Price of 3
“LONDON”
TO
MEASURE
ť
With. EXTRA
TROUSERS
FREE.
cS
Gf
m
HB;
J622K
Si
Which Pair to Wear? That is the Question.
“It’s a mighty good idea, that extra pair of Trousers Fiee.
Brightens up a fellow’s appearance wonderfully, and adds a pleasant
little puzzle to the morning toilette.”
1000 PATTERNS* Samples and Self-Measurement Forms Free*
ŧ
TAILORING OPP. C.P.O.
DEPOT, MELBOURNE
(ONLY ADDRESS IN THE STATES.)
James Martins
HAVE THE MOST COMPLETE STOCK OP
Specially
Selected
and
Cricket Goods
EVER EXHIBITED.
GOLF CLUBS y BUTCHART,
BRAID, PATRICK, CANN and TAYLOR,
SCOTT, SMITH, NICHOL, PARK, and
GIBSON’S
DEEP-
FACED
MASHIES.
The Best Clubs at Lowest Prices.
GOLF BALLS
of Every Make
in Stock.
HASKELL (English), HASKELL (Scotch),
ARLINGTON, WIZARD, AGRIPPAS,
SPRING VALES.
CRICKETERS,
SEND FOR
OUR PRICE LIST. - *®
161 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
’Phone 41. IT WILL PAY YOU.
PUBLIC KTOXIOE.
Re ACETYLENE GAS & CARBIDE
OF CALCIUM PATENTS.
The Acetylene Oas Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
V .
Messrs. J. Bartram and Son,
Butter and Produce Merchants, Melbourne, Vic.
A rumor has been spread through Australasia that
the above action for infringement of Patent rights
has been withdrawn. This is not correct, the
defendants having procured a Commission to take
evidence in Europe which will delay the case six
months.
The Acetylene Gas Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
desire to warn the Public against dealing with In-
fringers of their Patents. As soon as the above case
is settled the Company will be under the necessity of
proceeding* against USERS AS WELL AS IMPORTERS
for infringement and damages.
On all matters connected with Acetylene Gas
write direct to
The Acetylene Gas Co,
of Australasia, Limited,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
ake the Liver
Properly
Rev. Charles Wincott
WRITES
“ Gentlemen, —About three years ago I
was confined to my bed for a short time with
a very acute attack of Liver complaint.
After other medicines had failed to take any
effect, I was recommended by my doctor to
try Kutnow’s Powder, and I am glad to say
that after taking two bottles I was com-
pletely cured, and my health has been
better ever since. I have since recommended
your excellent preparation to quite a number
of sufferers, who testify of similar results.
“(Rev.) CHAS E. WINCOTT.”
(Incumbent of St. Phillip’s Church,
(Adlington, Lancs.)
Dr. THORPE w M te S:
“ Grant Building, Los Angeles.
“I prescribe Kutnow’s Powder and take
it myself occasionally ; it never fails to bring
about the most gratifying results in the most
pleasant manner.”
Sir J. B. MONCKTON
(Late Town Clerk of London) wrote :
“ Guildhall, London, E.C.
“ Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in
stating that for the last two years I have
regularly used Kutnow’s Powder, with the
result that troublesome and frequent attacks
of lumbago, with other gouty symptoms that
had troubled me for years, seem to have
entirely disappeared. ’ ’
THE FOOD PASSAGES
and ORGANS.
The body is a working machine, and like all other
machines wears away in use. Our bones and muscles, so firm
and strong, need constant repair to keep them so. For this
purpose food is necessary, and a series of instruments or
organs by which it may be changed into flesh and bone. We
are, therefore, furnished with teeth to chew, palates to taste,
stomachs to digest, livers to aid digestion, and bowels to carry
off the refuse matter. The Liver is the very gateway of
health, the sewage farm, where the poisons are neutralised by
the action of the bile ; it exerts an all-powerful influence on
the mind, temperament, and disposition. If your Liver is
active you are happy and light-hearted, if sluggish you are
crabby and miserable. Kutnow’s Powder will keep the
liver in perfect order.
Important Caution!
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there are others,
who, for the sake of a little extra profit, will attempt to foist upon
you some cheap imitation of their own. It is well known that
these cheap concoctions are highly dangerous, and in the case of
delicate, sensitive persons capable of inflicting permanent injury.
Kutnow’s Powder is pure, painless, palatable, free from sugar, and
absolutely harmless. See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
& Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap, ” are on the carton in which the bottle is packed, and
also on the label on the bottle. This signature and trade mark
will alone insure your obtaining the
GENUINE Kutnow’s Powder.
CAPTAIN BARCLAY
“Kirsteen, Cisbury Road, Brighton.
“ Gentlemen, —You kindly forwarded me
a bottle of your Kutnow’s Powder a short
time ago. I am very unwilling to testify
that things have worked wonders, but really
I cannot speak too highly of it. I have
suffered for years from constipation and liver
troubles. Your powder has done all that it
claimed, and more than that, it has given me
comfort. Its action is sure and gentle, and
at the same time certain, without any dis-
tressing effects.—Faithfully yours,
“ R. BARCLAY (Capt.)."
Dr. Tertius Marks WRITES :
(President of the Texas State Home Medical
Association; Medical Director of the O. A.R. of
the Department of Texas, Ex-Pension Medical
Examiner, U.S.A.)
“ Having tried your excellent preparation
(Kutnow’s Powder) personally, I am in a
position to say it is as good as it is possible
to conceive.”
Dr. I. N. LOVE
WROTE :
Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases,
Marion-Sinis College of Medicine and College
of Physicians and Surgeons, says :
“ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activi-
ties of the bowels and kidneys, it cleanses
the bowels, dilutes the urine, and flushes
out the kidneys in the most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there
is no better eliminator than Kutnow’s Pow-
der. “I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
Take
er and Enjoy Life
. n Anr i Innrlnn Pfi Proprietors in U.S.A. : KUTNOW BROS., Ltd., 853 Broadway, Hew York. [2 — B].
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, e.l. p -


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£3
mm
GrO XO HELL-
I«,(i|,ANI> for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fr€<l. Nagel),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists graiU.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
FOR LOVERS OF ART AND BEAUTY.
In the most graceful and exquisite French
Workmanship.
Illustrated Catalogue, with 48 samples, and 3 fine
Cabinet or Stereoscopes, ss.
Carefully Selected Assortments, 10s, £l, £2.
Money order or draft on London.
R. CENNERT, 890 FAUBY, St Martin, Paris, France,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Blind leaders may mislead the union work-
ing man into voting against Industrial Arbitra-
tion, but not the working man’s wife. She knows
best of all what strikes mean.
About the saddest proof of the fall of
George Turner in public estimation is that when
some other Turner made the asinine proposal that
the suburb of Prahran should change its name to
Albert Edward, “ in honor of the King,” a lot of
people thought that George Turner was the culprit.
That Australian youngster who, in a recent
exam, for Imperial Navy cadetships, defined, for
a British examiner, an Antipodean as “ a strange
sort of wild animal that burrows,” wasn’t so far
out. Of course he meant “borrows.”
Crick will, of course, resign the Chair of
Committees when the N.S.W. Assembly meets
again, with a view to the election of O’Sullivan to
the vacancy, but a strong combination is being
got together for the return of Cann, the former
worthy occupant of the chair.
Joseph Carruthers is economising in N.S.
Wales on true Bent principles. An old age
pensioner, who has been receiving the little income
for twelve months, was refused the last payment
as he had not a certificate of birth. There is
absolutely no doubt as to his age, and he was
accepted without question at the original inquiry.
The black Tory crowd up north tries again
to block Morgan’s Franchise Bill because, though
it brings the franchise about up to the level of the
Federal franchise, it doesn’t carve up the State
into equal districts. A crowd like that wouldn’t
take medicine for collywobbles unless the dose was
also guaranteed to cure carbuncle. It is the Poli-
tical Pale Pill Party.
CHILD'S PLAY.
“ One day of the Premiers’ Conference will be devoted
to mountaineering, when they will visit the summit of
Mount Wellington.” —News item.
BENR : “Don’t know what you think, Reid, but
to my mind scaling blooming mountains is rather
undignified for chaps in our position!" (And
for once the State and Federal Premiers agreed.)
Major Carroll has been lecturing before
the Prahran branch of the A.N.A. on Australian
defence, putting forward sound views. The first
line of defence should be, he maintained, naval;
then garrison artillery and submarine mines ; and
lastly a field force, for which every able-bodied
citizen should be trained. The most conspicuous
lack at present was that of any sure naval defence.
Another example of the inefficiency and
wasteful extravagance of Socialism. Privately-
owned farms and stations in Vic. suffered by bush
fires to the extent of over £70,000, while in the
state forests, which were attacked in a number of
places, every blaze was blocked by the breaks
which the-Department's officers had made at the
start of the summer, at a total cost for the whole
state of £l5O.
Vic. Education Minister Sachse is now
sitting in judgment on the case of a democratic
small boy, who is the subject of half-a-dozen long
foolscap reports from school inspectors and
teachers. The youngster was told to compose
a number of sentences containing certain words,
and one of these words was “ resilient,” the mean-
ing of which was given as “bounceable.” The
youngster smiled, then let out several inches of
his tongue, and scrawled on his slate, “ The
Premier (Mr. Bent) is very resilient.” Knowing
that the boy’s father was a dismissed railway
striker, the teacher “suspended” him from the
school for the fortnight preceding the holidays ; he
had a joyous time swimming, while his fellows
were working hard and a dozen highly-paid Govt,
officers were trying to discover a way of punishing
him for lese majeste.
Excusing Australia for not making aa much
in mining dividends as S’Africa, Sydney D.T. says
that Chow Africa has the advantage of cheap
labor ; “we should not make so much out of the
Rand as S’Africa is able to do.” No; we should
not make so much for the foreign, absentee Jew-
owner; but we should make more for our own
country. Can’t the D.T. get out of the habit of
reckoning up what a thing is worth to the foreigner
and valuing it accordingly ?
Tobacco Dixson’s place, as Tory represen-
tative of the City in S. Aus. Assembly, may go to
Dr. Angas Johnson, a youngster whom the Angas
family estates have heavily gilded, and who, not
having need to worry about practice, spends his
time and money mostly in scientific research. S.
Australia badly wants an enthusiastic sanitarian
in some high place ; but the Angas influence holds
Angas Johnson back. It’s years since the State
had a doctor in its politics—Dr. Cockburn was the
last in the Assembly, and Dr. Campbell in the
Council. Both did good work. But that was
years ago.
Daily Mail war correspondent M‘Kenzie
reckons that the balance of the war in the Far
North is swinging against Japan. The Russian
army is improving in morale and effectiveness,
and the .laps have made an enemy in their rear—•
the Koreans :
The Korean people, as a whole, from the members of
the Court downwards, believe that the Japanese intend to
take everything- from them, and to make them hewers of
wood and drawers of water. Nine months ago, when the
Russian cavalry swept down into Northern Korea, the
natives lied to them to send them back, and aided the
Japanese with information. They are now prepared to
hail the Russians.
An alarmed London deputation of proprie-
tary medicine folk has asked M.L. Agent-General
Reeves to urge on his Government the cruelty of
making the various quack nostrums, known (incor-
rectly) as patent medicines, disclose their formulas
when offered for sale. Unfortunately, the depu-
tation was needlessly alarmed. The M.L. Govern-
ment is understood" to have abandoned its first
wise intention of following a German law and
making all proprietary medicines disclose their
ingredients on each bottle. A great service would
be done to the people by such a law'. The pro-
prietary medicine is almost always a fraud ; as a
rule it is worth only from 10 to 25 per cent, of
what is charged for it, and the purchaser is lucky
if he escapes with money loss only and is not also
damaged in health by consuming noxious and
unsuitable drugs. If the ingredients of most of
the pills and swills so freely advertised were
announced on their bottles few would be fooled
into buying, and those few would thoroughly
deserve to be fooled.
The trustees of Melbourne Public
Art Gallery have lately borrowed for exhi-
bition some old prints of the highest in-
terest. Mostly they show Yarratown in
various early stages of its development.
The one of most human interest is of the
first Legislative Council meeting at the old
St. Patrick’s Hall, in 1851. In a little
square room, like a present-day suburban
court, are crowded many early celebrities—
Latrobe, Sta\yell, and Bedmond Barry
(afterwards Justices), Haines, McArthur,
Snodgrass and O’Shanassy (a hefty-looking
pair), John Thomas Smith, Francis Murphy
and J. P. Fawkner. This of Fawkner is
probably the best likeness extant, showing
a somewhat weak, petulant face, with
skimp, dark hair, but fine eyes. Among
the spectators is E. Henty, who, if the
likeness is correct, was a good double of
W. M. Thackeray.
The Labor-Liberal party in the
S.A. Assembly, in the hope that it will be
returned to power at the coming elections,
will attempt to take its Attorney-General
into Parliament with it. Paris Nesbit, K.C.,
has been selected by the Labor party as one
of its candidates for the Assembly.
Tommy Bent’s idea of a “Day of Rest,”
as he explains it, is evidently a lethargic period of
time devoted to boozing, gormandizing and sleep-
ing—the English Sunday. But a day of genuine
rest must be a day of change. The “ break-away ”
from the routine of the week is the great thing
needful, and that involves Sunday excursions,
Sunday museums and galleries. Then those who
serve the public health on Sunday can have their
rest on some other day.
The S’Australian State school exhibitions
and bursaries (the former for boys and the latter
for girls) usually go to the sons and daughters of
comparatively well-to-do people. A school in-
spector explains why
No child who is not promoted more rapidly than the
regulations prescribe, or who does not learn subjects out-
side the ordinary school curriculum, has the slightest
chance of winning an exhibition or a bursary. Special
coaching is needed in every case, and the poorer children
have very little hope of succeeding.
The State thus is in the position of offering a boon
to the children of the poor with one hand and
taking it away with the other.
Victoria’s Bent Government made a char-
acteristic arrangement for Christmas pension-
drawing. It fixed up the civil servant’s big
pension so that it could be drawn on the 23rd of
December, in time for the purchase of Christmas
wassail and supplies ; but it hung up the small
old-age dole till after the holidays. It required a
fairly hoggish mind to split the State’s pensioners
into two classes, leaving the more numerous and
more deserving to draw in its belt while the other
crowd waved a collective corkscrew and enjoyed
itself in general. And when anything hoggish is
called for, Premier Bent is the man to step into
the breach.
Bent has just appointed the members of
the Land Purchase Board, on whom the chief
work of the Closer Settlement Act devolves. The
expected has happened. The Board gives not the
slightest promise of successful administration. It
consists of Thomas P. Cumming, J. M. Gillespie,
and D. J. Duggan. Cumming is a reactionary
Tory, and a landowner connected with the Rupert
Clarke coterie. J. M. Gillespie is a relic of the
Boom. He at present fills the post of manager to
the Freehold Assets Realisation Company, which
is a Boom product. D. J. Duggan is a good-
natured weakling, who sat in the Assembly for
many years as member for Dunolly.
Whenever the Victorian Lands Depart-
ment makes an effort to get in some of the
£600,000 of land-rent arrears owed by the Reformer
cookies, there is trouble. Recently a circular was
sent out to those farmers whose rents were more
than 12 months in arrears, stating that if they did
not pay up they would be called before a land
board to explain the reason. Many of those who
are cheating the State of its money are well-to-do
men. If the matter got before a land board this
fact would be brought out. The circulars, there-
fore, had no sooner been distributed than the
newspapers were flooded with sad, tearful letters
from “ Struggling Selector” and “Poor Farmer.
Probably now the Bent Government will with-
draw and apologise.
FURIOUS SWIMMING.
COPPER (starting suddenly out of the vast deep): “ Your name an ’ address, if ye please!”
Many years ago, Bananaland Parliament,
in the interests of shipwrecked people, planted
cocoanut trees on the islands of the Great Barrier
Beef at a cost of £5OOO. The trees are now bear-
ing, and the Morgan-Kidston Govt, proposes to
turn them to account by leasing them. This sug-
gests the duty of every State to attend to forestry.
Trees planted in the arid wastes of the West would
help to make the Never-Never country habitable
and profitable. In Maoriland, forestation is being
carried on by prison labor.
The Federal Navigation Commission has
elicited the fact that the enthusiastic way in which
the Boys of the Bulldog Breed turn their backs on
the briny is partly attributable to the vile food
usually set before the hungry sailor. A wastrel,
who has generally made a hideous failure of
several callings before he makes a more hideous one
still of cooking, most often gets the billet of cook-
ing on a coasting vessel. (These remarks do not
apply to passenger ships.) It is argued that if
sea cooks had to possess certificates, the same as
masters and mates, life on the ocean wave would
lose one terror. But in addition to certificates
they’d need to have decent galleys. The average
small, stuffy galley is impossible to keep clean, and
has cooking apparatus of a most antiquated type.
ZIG-ZAG.
MAGISTRATE: “By all accounts, this man was as
drunk as he could be. Why didn’t you effect an
immediate arrest? ”
POLICEMAN : An’ so I would have, yer honor; but
he ran away zig-zag, an’ faith wiry toime Oi
wint zig he wint zag — an’ voisy-versa.”
There is trouble in S.A. orer the contem-
plated resignation of Premier Jenkins to take the
Agent Generalship in London. Treasurer Butler
thinks he ought to step into Jenkins’ shoes as a
matter of course, but Darling, who fathered the
present coalition, shakes his head. “ Where do I
come in?” he asks in effect; “ I stood aside for
Jenkins last session because it suited me ; but why
should I sacrifice myself for Bucler ? ” It is the
Darling party that has kept the Government in
office for the last two years. The Ministerial
reconstruction must take place before the elec-
tions, which should be interesting. The National
Ass threatens to oppose all candidates who support
an alteration of the Legislative Council franchise,
and the Ministry, as constituted at present, is
pledged to liberalise the suffrage.
“Gr.H.”: The “ what-has-it-done-for-De-
mocracy” cry of Queensland Worker anent the
Morgan Government is typical of many
Labor prints. A Government may do its utter-
most in order to stop the country's drift towards
insolvency, and its Treasurer may tear his heart
out in the awful task of ledger-straightening, but
the short-sighted Labor press will meet him with
the same old yap as regards his “ doings-for-De-
mocracy ” unless he can find time in between to
pass a lot of “ breaking-manacles ” and other legis-
lation of the advertising order. It was the same
when Watson and Isaacs were trying to root up
the Federal tariff in order to provide more work
for the Australian population. Sydney Worker,
I think, was the only Australian Labor paper that
did not curse the Watson-Isaacs alliance.
Ararat (Vic.) Council lately took a referen-
dum of its ratepayers as to whether it should
borrow £250 to cover £250 conditionally offered by
Bent for fencing and otherwise improving its town
hall. There were over 600 entitled to vote, and
they had three choices : (1) Borrow—for which 115
voted ; (2) let it rip—for which 107 voted ; and
(3) raise the money by a special rate —and only 11
were honest enough to make the last choice.
The American Harvester Trust is steadily
licking up the Yankee reaper and binder industry.
The biggest firms are now combined under the
name of the International Harvester Company,
which makes ploughs, harrows, seed-drills, mowers,
hay-rakes, etc., as well as reapers and binders;
and, in a short time, unless tariff revision inter-
feres, the agricultural implement business of the
Commonwealth will be entirely in its hands.
Probably the' English Hornsby Co. and one
or two smaller firms will be forced to accept
the terms of the combine; and then prices will
whizz upward. The Yankee firm makes a
specialty of the reaper and binder. Its
value, landed on the wharf in Australia, is
probably not more than £2O ; but Australian users
are charged more than double that figure. There
is not a single portion of these machines that could
not be made in Australia. Indeed, the knotter
device was invented by an Australian in the first
place; and was collared along with a lot of other
Australian improvements by the Yank. Now the
Australian farmer will have to pay through the
nose for his own improvements.
The chronicle of S. Australia’s descent
from Kingston to Darling :
Kingston began in ’93 with Playford, Cockburn, Gordon,
Holder and Gillen as colleagues, the strongest lot South
Australia ever had. Then Playford went to England, and
Jenkins came in, because he had been whip. Kingston’s
promising young man, Gillen, died, and O’Loughlin
arrived. The democratic pace was too warm for
‘ l Johnny ” Gordon, and O’Loghlin came in. The decadent
Oockburn chose to go to England as Playford’s successor,
and Butler was admitted—a Minister for Agriculture was
wanted, and Butler was a farmer. In ’99 Kingston looked
round and found himself left with just one of his colleagues
of six years before ; and he went out. Then, after a
few days, Holder further watered the team by taking in
Foster ; but, with Batchelor, another new man, he went
out himself to go to the Reps., and then Jenkins had for
colleagues Gordon (resurrected, the pace having slack-
ened), Butler, Foster, O’Loughlin and Brooker. The two
most democratic, O’Loughlin and Brooker, were dropped
when portfolios were reduced to four. It was still an
allegedly Liberal team—one part Liberal and 10 parts water.
Then Gordon escaped to the bench, and the frankly Con-
servative Von Doussa was added. The diluted Foster
was strained out next, and the frankly Conservative
Vardon substituted. Von Doussa was changed for the
still narrower Homburg. And now, finally, Jenkins him-
self crawls out and goes to Enaland as Agent-General, to
make room for Darling, the Conservative leader.
♦
Mr. L. C. RAWLS, Searight, Ala., writes:
“ M.v little boy, five years old, took WHOOPING-
COUGH. I thought he could not live. The doctor said
his lungs were diseased, and gave him medicine, but it
did no good. JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT CURED HIM.”*
When the heat fiend is around, handing out a
fiery atmosphere for common or garden breathing
purposes, a man needs to use serious, not to say solemn,,
discrimination in the matter of liquid relief. Such dis-
crimination always results in D.C.L. A wise citizen
knows well the brand which will suit his complaint in
any time of stress upon his mental or physical powers.
When the grateful, not-too-often query “ What’s yours?”
rings in his perspiring ear he feels the D.C.L. thrill pass-
ing through him, and he winks at the Hebe behind the
bar. The wink of the wise is as good as a word to an
experienced barmaid. She knows it for what it means—
D.C.L. every time.*


UPPERS made from plump black Calf Skins.
SOLES Oak-tanned.
BEST IRISH FLAX THREAD used.
Long Wear follows AS A CERTAINTY.
THE
CALLAGHAN
PRICE 22/6
IN TAN, 23/6
POST AND DUTY FREE
ii
ii
23/6,
24/6
Except to W.A.
»
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George Street, Sydney.
Are You Anxious
to get Cured ? If jso use
VITADATIO
You will be Fully Satisfied
with the Result*
Cures Stricture.
56 Castlemaine-street, Yarraville,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Dear Sir, —I have been troubled for the past twenty
.years with stricture, and been under skilful medical men
in South Australia and also in Victoria. I have under-
gone three operations, but only received temporary
benefit. As the doctors said there was no cure for me, I
was recommended to try VITADATIO. I purchased one
bottle, which, I was pleased to find, acted like magic on
my complaint. I have taken five large bottles, and can
truly say, up to the present time, I have received great
benefit, and fully believe it will make a complets cure of
the above complaint. You are at liberty to make what
use you think fit of this, as VITADATIO cannot be too
highly recommended.
I remain, yours truly,
EDWARD JENKINS.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: 430 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S. W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. HuufcerSt.),
And at Cor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Meihourne
Next-of-Kin.
I F tbe Nejct-ot-Kiii of DOCTOR FRANCIS
PAOLI will communicate with the under-
signed they will hear something to their advan-
tage.
Mac Donnell, Henchman & Hannah,
Solicitors, Cairns, N.Q.
| S.A. is playing the goat to some purpose.
I John Bailes, who has 600 miles of country beyond
j Oodnadatta, tells Adelaide Begistek that in
years he has bred 140 common goats up into 650
I “ third cross ” angoras (besides eating 200 a year on
! the station !). The wool already fetches 7d. a
pound, and will be worth more as the cross-breed-
ing works up. Bailes, by the way, denies the
usual theory that a goat will live where a sheep
can t. “ When we had had no rain for two years,
1 could get a fat sheep where I could not find a
fat goat. The advantage is that the goat eats the
bushes, while the sheep eats the grass ; and so the
two industries dovetail in.
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
ţ
Sold
by ALL
First-Class
Stores
in Australasia.
No. 81764
2 Blades 1 Pampa
Cocoa Handle - 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 2h
Stag Handle - - -
26
Notice.
PURSUAN P to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice made
in an action in the matter of the Estate of
SAMUEL STANIFORTH Bower v. Staniforth
1902 S. No. 4455 the Creditors of Samuel Stani-
forth late of Marulan in the State of New South
Wales and Commonwealth of Australia of no occu-
pation who died on the 29th day of December 1891
are on or before the 11th day of April 1905 to send
by post prepaid to Mr. George Holme Bower of
Number 4 Breams Buildings (Chancery Lane)
E.C. London England member of the firm of
Bower Cotton & Bower of the same place the
Solicitors for the Administrator of the deceased
their Christian and Surnames addresses and des-
criptions with full particulars of their claim a
statement of their accounts and the nature of the
Securities (if any) held by them or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded'from
the benefit of the said order. Every Creditor
holding any security is to produce the same before
Mr. Justice Warrington at his Chambers Room
No. 292 at the Royal Courts of Justice Strand
London England on Tuesday the 18th day of
April 1905 at 12 o’clock noon being the time
appointed for adjudicating on the claims.
Any person who has any knowledge of any Will
of the said Samuel Staniforth is required to send
particulars thereof to the said George Holme
Bower.
Dated this 29th day of November 1904.
THOS. A. ROMER
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note. —The said Samuel Staniforth formerly
resided in Yorkshire England and left England
for New South Wales in the year 1852 and con-
tinued to reside there (except for a short period)
until his death in 1891.
BOWER COTTON & BOWER
4 Breams Buildings (Chancery Lane)
London E.C. England
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
gS®
WHY LOOK OLD?
USE THE PATENT-
IDEAL HAIR-DYEING COMB
RESTORES FADED HAIR.
Instantly Colors Grey Hair
DARKENS AUBURN HAIR.
Imparts any Shade of Brown or a Brilliant Black
/ T'HE Patent Ideal Hair-Dyeing Comb in made to carry a sup-
ply of the Coloring Fluid, with which it can be'con-
stantly re-charged, and thus by merely passing the Comb
through the hair a few times every grey hair disappears
until the whole of the tresses are evenly colored to any
desired shade. The scalp and the hands cannot be dis-
colored when the Hair Dyeing Comb is used. The bottle of
Dyeing Fluid that accompanies the Comb is guaranteed
absolutely harmless and perfectly free from < angerous
mineral ingredients. It differs entirely fr< in ordinary dyes, for
it greatly improves the texture of the hair, making it beauti-
fully smooth and glossy. The hair may be thoroughly
washed at any time without affecting the imparted color.
Fad'd hair will be restored to its original color by simply
combing it in the ordinary way, and auburn hair can be
darkened to any shade "f brown. To avoid attracting notice,
the < o>or may he v ry gradually changed without the slight
est risk of detection. Full printed directions for use and
a Bottle of the Coloring Fluid accompany the Comb, naeked
in a neat box The price of the complete outfit is only 7s 6d.,
including carriage to any address, and secure y packed free
from observation. Additional bottles of the Dveuig Fluid
may be had at any time for 2s. 6d. carriage paid. Postal Notes
of any State accepted. Obtainable only from
The Union Iflfg. & Agency Go,,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
DR. MARSDEN’S
Medicated Electric Battery Plasters
IS PLACED OVER THE REGION OF PAIN.
.The Greatest and Latest Medical Electric Success. Wonderfully Speedy Relief, and
Certain Cure. What the Medication cannot do, the Electric Battery does. Nothing else like it
in Australia. Is Cheap and Most Effective. You know the Cost of Cure now. No After Expense.
Medicated Electric Battery Plasters are made in Two Varieties :
NO. 1 CURE -Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Sleeplessness,
Spleen, Kidney Complaint, Backache, Indigestion, Neuralgia.
NO. 2 CURE—General Debility, Pleurisy, Lung Disease, Stomach
Pains, Spinal or Heart Weakness, and are Positive Relief to
Women from the common distressing backache incident to
the sex.
CURES ALL NERVOUS OR BLOOD DISEASES,
Australasian Address— DEPT. C.,
ESeotr'c Battery Plaster Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
PRICE, 7s. 6d. by Post to any State.
■ {•_
mm
%
m
mm.
si
O'"-,; ‘O ■■,
,C>;/ : y
■
■
*
g®
lUi
09535;
Ti
w.
o'\'
C?) >
</ O
c»y^
■-.. .00
B
r -<®
■x\ ' •
The
PAr'affine Paint Cor
_ r , * San Francisco. (Established 1884).
WlTfiarn Baldwin Australasian Manager, H 7 Pitt ST Sydney.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not.”
—Marcus Aurelius.
MALTHOID ROOFING is
Not the same cs other Roofings; it is
GUARANTEED
to be made only from the best and purest
materials ; its composition is a
PURE WOOL
felt, thoroughly saturated and coated with
a mineral hydro-carbon 100 per cent. pure.
Every roll is 72 feet long
AMD A YARD WIDE .
We also supply sufficient nails and
Malthoid cement, free of charge, to pro-
perly fix it.
Send for Booklet.
Agents: W. S. FRIEND & Co.\ e ., d .
G. E. CRAKE & SONS } '
“Vigilans,” from the back end of
Nowhere: —
Globe-trotters who have described the life of Aus-
tralian swagmen as a picnic should visit the nor’-west of
Westralia. They are allured up to places like Broome by
nigger owners in Fremantle, only to find when they get
there that all the work is done by Japs, Chows, Manna-
men, and Malays. Very many try to negotiate the water-
less track back to civilisation per boot, with the hope of
picking up a job en route. They might as well look for
snow in Sheol. Every station has from 40 to 100 inden-
tured blacks, who sign on for 12 months. This signing on
is a joke. The niggers under the agreement are supposed
to get clothes, rations, and medicine. Most of them
receive rations—lolb. flour, lib. meat, jib. tea, lib. sugar,
and a stick of nigger tobacco per week for three months
only at shearing ; then they go on a “ holiday ” for nine
months, receiving nothing. Nigg-ers do all the shearing,
rouseabouting, pressing, etc., while their gins pick
up and roll. The only whites are the boss, overseer,
and blacksmith. Fencing, team-driving, well-sinking, and
boundary-riding is all done by blacks, Chows and Malays.
The stranded white man is to be pitied indeed. The
squatter keeps a store and charges fabulous prices—ss.
for a towel ; Is. fid. for a tin of jam ; 2s. a tin of milk ; Is.
a loaf of bread. The distances between stations and
water are enormous—sixty and seventy miles from one
homestead to another, and forty between water is quite
common. The country is hungry-looking, without a tree
for miles, except on the hanks of the so-called rivers,
which are always dry. The heat is intense, and huge
clouds of red dust, called “cock-eyed bobs,” are continu-
ally rising up and coloring everything red. The flies are
frightful, and you soon become half blind. You travel
for days without seeing a living thing', even a bird. Along
the teleg'raph-lines there are shed-tanks at intervals
of 25 or 30 miles. These are for the linesmen and
are usually locked ; but they have very little
water. Scores of men perish in this awful wilder-
ness. Going from the Yanarie to the Ashburton
I was shown four spots where men had died of thirst.
The squatters are adopting a penny wise and pound
foolish policy by employing niggers on their runs. As an
illustration : A nig is sent round a paddock and reports
fences, water, &c., all right. He never goes near the place,
but has a quiet doss under a tree. The overseer goes
round a week after and finds 100 or so dead sheep, or the
fence down and sheep g'one. In an extensive tour along
the Gascoyne, Mainlya and Ashburton Rivers I only came
across one station without blacks. Messrs. Burt Bros., of
Peedamulla (Ashburton), have not a single black on their
run, and are now beginning to find out, after lfi years’ ex-
perience, that, it pays better to have white men. They
told me that they had battled in this awful country year
after year with heavy losses in til they became grey-headed
from anxiety, and ic is only during the past three years
since they did away with the blacks, that things began to
look up and the overdraft look down.
The colored print, • ‘ It’s a shame to take
the money,” just now being freely sold in Aus-
tralia, has been prosecuted in London as an “im-
proper picture.” One vendor was fined £5.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
' 1115-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability'.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident, Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,814,795.
Policies issued 94,657 - assuring £28,394,068.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as t*
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -equitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
THE
Queensland national lank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. ~ 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 39,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 4J- per cent, per annum.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
■HE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT VI). w
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,466
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 175.885
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 63,00 C
£696,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank
of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903
Amouu t of Capital payable by Shareholders
1,000,000
500,000
600,000
Total Capital
£2,000,000
file Bank of Qortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, l’hilp&Oo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 000 ... £350.000
For Sale.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
MAGNIFICENT
DAIRYING PROPERTY
Known as “ MORAYFIELD,”
situatedj2B miles from BRISBANE, adjoining Railway Line.
Under instructions from W. H. JACKSON, Esq., who is
retiring from business.
ONE OF THE BEST DAIRYING PROPERTIES IN
SOUTHERN QUEENSLAND,
CONTAINING a total area of 2737 acres, of which about
1100 acres are black soil river fiats, 400 acres under
plough and 700 acres ring-barked, well watered by a large
lagoon and planted with paspalum and other grasses.
The improvements comprise a very large dwelling,
stables, 6-roomed cottage, 4-roomed cottage, 2 milking
sheds with 41 bails, large barn (60 x 60), implement and
cart sheds, 10-stall brick stable, grain shed, pig sties,
stock yards, cattle dip, bull pens, &c., 9 grass, 9 cultivated
fields and 5 pig paddocks. The herd consists of 450 dairy
cows, selected and bred from cattle imported from the
South Coast of New South Wales ; 26 horses, 150 pure
Berkshire pigs.
Price, £lO,OOO. Stock and extensive plant at valuation
if required. Terms: one-fourth cash, balance at 5 per
cent, on terms to suit purchaser. Full particulars,
inspection, &c., apply to
ISLES, LOVE and CO
Auctioneers, Brisbane.
Shipping.
nxr. d. x_i.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE-'Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA Tnd JAPAN
From SYDNEY Even- 6 Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
T.S.S. PRINZ SICISMU.fD, 3300 tons, 21st JANUARY".
T.S.S. PRINZ WALDEN!AR, 8300 tens, 4th MARCH.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
ť
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Models £2m ilO to 5* O
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Tlirns,
free Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAIfJ to any
sfOFt In Australasia.
>1 otor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , Accessories, Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
•Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sulHci nt foreign postage.
MEAD GYGIE GO - Dept. 339 b
CHICAGO, U.S.A. und LIVERPOOL, KM.I.AMI.
o o ivt of* a. ixr ~ST,
QCEA.IVIC STE3-03:a3EIlP
A. AND A. LINE.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE ami ROUND THE WORLD.
Via San Francisco, St. Loui3, Q.ii ;.i j», ?a'l3 or the Capitol (Washington).
Fares to Any Destination as Cheap as Any Other Fir t-Ci.ass Line. Printed Matter and All Information Free.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
OOU.NER I’ITT AND l ; ,If,I DUE ST It 1C UTS. SYDNEY.
NORFOLK ISLAND, THE BEAUTIFUL .
A little under 1000 miles to the N.E. of Sydney lies Norfolk Island—” The Gem of
the Pacific,” as it has been justly called. The Island Line of Steamers afford
excellent opportunities to visit this charming spot, leaving Sydney on first of every
month, calling at Lord Howe Island en route. The tourist enjoys in all 11 days’ sea
voyage and 11 days ashore. First Class Return Fare, £10; including accommodation
ashore, £l2. Send for Illustrated descriptive matter, Post Free.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Limited, 10 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon. - all - Classes - of
Security.—
LOWEST INT-REST.
EASY TERMS.
a
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
axr.s,'W.
OJI.Co.,CtI
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
■ SYI>NEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co I*td. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Aus.ralia.
Dire3tors —Sidney : lion. A.'-VV. M kicks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright*# Co.), Sir Joiin*Sick, Id.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssou, Ksq.
Managers : Melbourne, I). Ci.vnk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M ‘Far rank ; Brisbane, A. HA M i i/roN Hart; Perth, A. \V.
Karquh Alt. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write- for Prospectus HI I Pi tfc St.. SVI >N 15 \.
ŧ
A DELIGHTFUL TRIP.
Them.™,. “Airße" »nd “Guihric," lying Sydn.y .H«™.=ly
now make it possible to visit all the attractions of New Guinea, the Dutch L,as
Indies and Singapore wiih the utmost convenience The round trip occupies ele
weeks and costs Forty Founds A five-weeks trip may be maoe by eliminating the Fast
ndies’fromthe tour to Sydney from I hursday Island via Queensland Forts
by A U S-N - steamer. Return fare, £25. 11 lust, ated descriptive matter post free.
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED, 10 Bridge Street.
OFFICES :
SOUTH BRITISH CHAMBERS, 12 Bridge St., Sydney.
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager. CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
One of the
Wealthiest Fire
and Marine Insur-
ance Companies
doing- business in
Australia, and
noted for its
Promptness and
Liberality in
Settlements.
REYNOLDS’S
NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of" the People, by
the People, iQf the People.
PRICE-ONEPENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effingham House, Arundel-street,
London, Eng.
WHITE STAR LINE.
lli
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
27th JANUARY,
SUEVIC, PERSIC. RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. ... £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Valyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS. _
TN€ RB€RP€€N |_lN€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
t Discharging at Durban Wharf. *Twin-Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
Til IRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Ualyety anil Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
The Favorite Steamer—
nOANA
SAILS 23rd JANUARY.
Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
»VJ jaSfFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight. Different Articles, comprising
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing 100 coin and
card tricks), the Surprise Packet or Nerve Strengthener
(a <>ood joke), the Three Donkies, th_e Wizard
Fish” (gives the definition of your character—
verv superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), the Pocket Companion or Combina-
tion Comet Candle and Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring- or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney,
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo, January 21
at Noon.
Connecting- with
S.S. Yongala at Melbourne
for Adelaide and Fremantle,
Jan. 25.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, '
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Tyrian, Saturday, Jan,
21, at 1 p.m.
S.S. Marloo, January 28,
at 1 p.m.
lie.it and Cheapest Ho ate to <1 old/lelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mess times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government,, calling at MKLBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO. BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cnina
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77.
neluding table wines.
RETURN TICKET'S AT REDUCED RATE 3. ENGLISU
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meek
the passengers for Loudon and give‘them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Olfice*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt. Si reet, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TIIE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS, and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europeria Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Hotels. -
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
"V" EWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now ofEers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding' Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged!
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in LONDON
(England),
- Langham Hotel
PORTLAND PLACE,
and REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
modern Appointments. moderate Tariff.
“ T SAY, Jim ! Where did you stay when you went over
to Melbourne last ? ”
“Oh ! at the
"FALSTAFF” Restaurant
SPENCER STREET,
Opposite Railway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, bandy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it and could be called any time by Night Sorter.
Smoking Boom ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resi-
dence 16s. and £l. Single Bedrooms, Is. 6d. Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, 6d. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Number of Single Bedrooms are available
at Is. per night, or ss. weekly, with every
convenience.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every connoru and convenience at
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl’. HILDA.
riIHE Largest and uest-Appointed Boarding-house in
-f- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
A writer in the London Bystander gives
two entries in the catalogue of a second-hand
dealer : “ ‘ The Soil,’ by Zola, Unexpurgated,
11s. The same, Expurgated, Is. 6d.”
“Caro”: How many people have noticed
the. cat’s susceptibility to color ? Give puss a
choice of cushions, and it will take the warmest-
tinted one. Crimson is greatest favorite. Should
a table boast a crimson cloth, the house cat will be
fond of a perch upon it, dreamily inspecting the
color between her fore paws. Purple is another
favorite.


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
IVJORRIS’S^
llmpeiial
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2.1- .
IMPERIAL.”
chemists & stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary,Melb!
OSTRICH PLUMES
From the
Famous Farms
of S. Africa.
Black, White,
Cream,
Katural. and.
Black Tipped
with White.
(15 inches)
10/6 each
Extra large
White Plumes,
10s. 6d., post
free ; worth their weight in gold. This
style of ostrich feather is very fashion-
able. We make this offer to advertise
our Ostrich Tips. Write to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne. Illustrated Price List Post Free.
Mention The Bulletin.
Educational.
Bendigo Schooi of Mines.
ON PREMIER COLDFIELD OF VICTORIA.
A SSOOIATESHIP in Mining, Engineering and Metal-
lurgy. Certificates of Competency as Mine Manager
and Assayer. Special arrangements with principal mines
for practical training of Students. School Hostel for
Resident Students—Moderate Rates. First term begins
FEBRUARY 7th. Apply for Prospectus and all infor-
mation to—
C. ALEC THOMSON, M.A., Registrar.
Missing- Friends.
WILLIAM MURPHY, brother of the late
MRS. CATHERINE SUTER, of St.
Peter’s, near Sydney, will hear of something to
his advantage by communicating with the under-
signed.
MESSRS. McDONELL & MOFFITT,
Solicitors,
George and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
LUCAS
PARIS CAFE
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
Where Fashion, Style and Ceauty
funcr.es, dines and sups in
elegant case and luxury, and in
privacy, if required.
No connection with any business of the same
name in Melbourne or elsewhere.
LUCAS’
E 5&» n 0
l.owi) nail vafe
Swanston St., Melbourne.
Enticing Fare and High-Class
Style for the Million.
Lunchenns, Dinners, Fruit
Lui chcons and Teas that
tempi the daintie ;t appetite.
No connection with any business of the same
name in Melbourne or elsewhere.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
L. To FIVER’S
LATEST PARISIAN PERFUMES
LE TREELE
ROSSRIS
SENTEUR
HZUREft
SftERftNOR
FETERNft
WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDDOWS BROTHERS, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
PERTH, ADELAIDE, WELLINGTON, N.<L
S 3
fa
Early Issues of Australian
POSTAGE STAMPS
Purchased —Gash sent by Return
Mail. Price Lists Post Free.
WALTER A. HULL,
No. 10 The Strand, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Box 1312.
RMDT
? 4TrNT
machine
Hand Ice Making
Machine.
Makes Ice in 5 Minutes.
PRICE Send for Catalogue IS.
70s.
BRANDT BROS.,
422 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne;
and 236 Pitt-st., Sydney
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THIS LADIES.
W. C. -'PT.DRIDGE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
PRICE Is. Id. Post Free
;AY!!!
3/11 “Corn Cob”
Keyless, Dust-proof
WATCHES? They
are wonderful value,
strong, excellent time
keepers, and will last for years. Have a look
at them for yourself.
CRAIG and AITKEN,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists
and Fancy Goods Importers . . .
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
4 Doors below Liverpool-street.
=a ts
m
m
4
UgH
IT
CLEANS
Straw*!
PANAMA
LIKE
N£W
HATS
6>Q d .e«P££F|
C/iem/s/s& Sfbrejreepe?fi\
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales: THE
A.M. & I. CO., Ltd., 80 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Queensland : THOMASON-CHARTER, Limited, Brisbane.
Victoria : JAMES B. COPLAND, Propy., Ltd.
And all Wholesalers.
EARN £5 A WEEK.
FARMERS, BUSHMEN, MINERS. SHEARERS,
r TEAMSTERS, and, in fact, ANY MAN may increase
h’’s income and earn from TWO to FIVE POUNDS a
WEEK in SPARE TIME without the slightest interference
wi h usual occupation. NO MONEY or previous ex-
perience required. Address —
Hs-G. STANFORD,
Dept. H. Victoria. Arcade, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
L.
L-
W I
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is
The Life, Adventures
and C'onfesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fi-as, is.
lend stamp fox Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties .
Fwladame Panza,
' » ' . ' .I'JEV
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR.
WS /I'
CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining: membrane of the nose and
adjoining.passages. If this inflam-
mation is not arrested it invades the
passages which leads from the nose
to the head, ears, throat and lungs.
It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and
smell, renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the a'recced tissues,
consumes the nasal cartileges, and
rots away the small frontal bones of
the skull. The putrid discharge,
passing through the lungs and
stomach, causes dyspepsia, also con-
sumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy.
It has no equal.
RAMEYS’ DEDICATOR
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deaf- J
ness, Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Ilay
Fever, La Grippe, etc.
1-rice Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or send
order direct to
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229-231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
(Box *OB, G.P.0.). for Catalogues.
«|eST° 178lT|»
Assurance Company of London
Assurances ejected on Buildings and Contents ; also on WOOLSHn,n3, HOMESTEADS, and
other Station Properties, at LOWEST RATES.
NOTE.—Losses arising from Bush Fires, Lightning, and
Explosion of Coal Gas arc covered by this Company.
Annual Income, £1,500,C00. Reserve Fund and Security, £4,000,0CT.
Has issued the LARGEST FIRE POLICY ever written, viz., for £3,474,030;
Premium, 33,321.
Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, allowed off a’l Premiums.
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers), WILUAM "• FAR “^
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEOSM.
*
\5/Edo not. recommend the “ HELBA ” because it is lower in price
’’’ than oc.iers, such may be true, but because the “ftEL>A ’ ’
excels ah otiKis in tlie most important quality an instrument can
possess—i ONE.
This is the result of the superior quality of the alloy used in the
reeds, and the employment of experts in reed “ voicing,” an art which is
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accordeons.
The “fIELBA” ACCORDEON, No. 717, is fitted with three
sets of reeds, nine fold double bellows, leather lined corners fitted with
metal protectors.
To anyone mentioning The Bulletin we will send the above Post
Free for 205., including Carl Bruno’s Accordeon Tutor, containing-
Popular Songs, Waltzes, &c.
ALLAN’S, 276, 278 Collins-street, Melbourne.
EDISON
RECORDS
Q
(EDISON
RECORDS
For EDISON
and REOOHiS
WRITE TO . . .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T. & C. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hale.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Free.
r IN HOT CLIMATES
where a good antiseptic soap is often
more a necessity than a luxury,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent
Carbolic Soap
lias a ready sale, on account of its
refreshing qualities, and the protec-
tion its use gives against mosquito
bites. It contains 20% Crystal Car-
bolic, and is useful for insect bites
or stings, ringworm, itch, &c.
Calvert’s Disinfecting Powder
is guaranteed to contain i 5 %; Carbolic and
so is cheap to use as it need only be lightly
sprinkled to destroy noxious and unpleas-
ant odours and prevent the approach of
infection. Jib., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
England. a
Ml
i 1
CSHCOHWP
Line
agents:
Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
J. Connell & Ca.,
Sydney.
0. Cohen & Co. ,
aL/jjL Hewcas "i,
t
ţ
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, lor pam.
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will he sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
NERVOUSNESS.
of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a GlffirLß MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, C.P.0., SYDNEY.
MANLY MEN
with strong and
vigorous Nerves
move the World.
Here is a new life and hope for weak and desponden t
Men. Overwork & Weakness lose their terrors under
the magic influence of the Homoeopathic
Treatment & Electro-Battery Applance.
Send addressed envelope and Dr. lrvingls Brochure will
be sente Free sealed. Addr**‘ s
THE IRVING INSTITUTE,
Corner HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
They’re mighty particular in Broken Hill
as to the servant girl’s character. Miner advt. :
WANTED General SERVANT ; good wages ; no
»» night-walker or window-climber need apply.
Killeen’s Woodyard.
The sergeant at Melb. City Court puts the
holiday drunks through at the pace of a champion
cyclist. Thus:—“John Jones pleads guilty,
your Worship. Here before on th’ tenth last
month. There’s a shilling cab hire.” “Five
shillings, and a shilling, or 12 hours. Call
Thomas Smith”—and so a hundred or so are
rushed through in an hour.
“Exile”: Know an old cockie who is a
whale for patent medicines. He is fully convinced
that there is something going “bumpety bump”
in his head, for which he cannot account, accom-
panied by a “ rushin’ and roarin,” which he
elaborately explains as the result of “three holes
in the left drum and two in the right.” He has
consulted a number of quacks by letter at great
expense (one of them sent a soothing ointment
which took the skin off), but ultimately bec'ime so
enamored of the merits of “ pills” that he
took the contents of 24 bottles. The result of this
course of medicine was that he was brought into
the town hospital. This cost him £6 6s. private
hospital fees and £l5 medical attendance, etc., but
he still swears by the pills. He is over 70, and
tough.
Mr. N. N. CAZEN, Sparrow Bush, N.Y.,
writes: “ Jayne’s Expectorant is the best Cough
medicine I know of. IT HAS SAVED BOTH MY OWN
AND MY CHILDREN’S LIVES.”
“T.D.”: Even in conventional England,
the Church hasn’t a particularly rosy time nowa-
days. At St. John’s Wood, London, I came
across a notice —“This freehold chapel, with seat-
ing for 500, also vestries, class-room, and baptis-
tery, to be let or sold.” The edifice hadn’t been
replaced by another, the congregation had
simply slumped until there was practically none
of it left. Also, I was taken into a church the
other day, which first belonged to the Wesleyans,
who abandoned it; then to the prosperous Salva-
tionists, who have taken more commodious pre-
mises; then served for a time as an auctioneer’s
premises; and is now inhabited by the Roman
Catholics.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemists. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
Result of a recent experiment by Victorian
Government Viticultural expert Burney suggests
chilling as a method of improving Australian
wines. Samples of Cabernet and White Hermi-
tage of the 1904 vintage were placed in the
Government cold stores in June, and taken out
about the middle of December. Brought to normal
temperature they compared most favorably with
pasteurised wines. The chilled white wine had
improved in flavor, bouquet and finish. The
Cabernet had lost some of its color, much of its
roughness, and all of the saline flavor peculiar to
new Victorian wines. Thought that the improved
flavor is attributable to the precipitation by the
cold of the cream of tartar —always excessive in
Australian wines—and with it the albuminous
matter and tannates.
An added terror to the lot of the public
servant is the annual mental earthquake he goes
through when the Estimates are on. Every public
servant who, after years of worry, has climbed to
the dizzy height of £350 or £4OO a year, is liable
to slide down the greasy pole of affluence to £3lO
or £350 at the shortest notice. The financial year
starts in July, so that any reduction made by
Parliament in December counts back about six
months, and the dead horse has to be worked off.
In bad years a rapid greying of the hair sets in
among civil servants as the Estimates approach,
and when the day of anguish is safely past there
is a reaction—an hysterical feeling of relief like
that of the person who dreamt that he went into
a shop in a nude state to buy a copy of the
Watchman, and woke up to find that he didn’t;
and the Under-Sqcyqtary is almost driven.to shed
his dignity and throw a paper-ball at the mes-
senger.


da
HOTELKEEPERS! Make your own AERATED
WATERS and SAVE from £6 to £lO on every
100 dozen of Waters used in your hotel.
THE AUSTRAL
Aerated Water Machine
(Improved Patent)
Is now in use in many of the leading hotels and clubs in
Australia and New Zealand. Prospective (N.Z.) buyers
please write for prices.
ALHAMBRA HOTEL, CUBA ST., WELLINGTOH.
Sole Manufacturers—
ECKERSLEY and SONS, Melbourne.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Gavernor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Bob M‘Leod has stated that the Australian
Eleven was “ picked in the pleasantest manner,” although
Darling, as one of the selectors, formally declined to vote
for himself. Satisfactory to know that Darling showed
no unpleasantness when his two colleagues insisted on
picking him. He doubtless dissembled his astonishment
and bowed gravely to the inevitable. What a subject for
a great historical picture—“ The Picking of the Team!”
» * * *
South Australia is inclined to be disappointed
with Darling for putting himself in the Australian Eleven
instead of Claxton. Right up to the moment of his de-
parture with the South Australian team for Melbourne
and Sydney, Darling assured his Adelaide intimates that
he had no desire to go to England, and would not accept
a place in the team if he were picked.
Syd. Gregory goes Home for his sixth trip with
the Australian XI., but apart from him, the accusation
of old-stagers levelled against the team does not work out to
its disadvantage, compared with previous teams. Darling
and Hill have gone three times before, but Blackham went
eight times, A. Bannerman and Boyle six ; Bonnor, Giffen,
Murdoch, Spofforth and H. Trumble five times ; Trott,
Jarvis, Mac Donnell, S. P. Jones and Palmer four times
each. Johnny Briggs, on the other hand, came to
Australia six times, and he was the nearest to approach
Blackham’s record, which Noble, Hill and others, though
“ not out,” have a long way to go to reach.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” : Two or three members of the selected
Australian Eleven were knocking round Collins-street,
Melbourne, the other afternoon, with seemingly nothing
to do but display themselves. Their pose of greatness
was only a little less absurd than the air of reflected glory
assumed by their admiring companions. A stage hero
strutting aiong the street in sublime consciousness of the
notice he attracts is reckoned a fair mark for sarcasm,
whereas these “star” cricket performers rarely or never
get a reminder that their heads need poulticing. This is
intended for a reminder.
* * #
The “understudy ” wicket-keeper doesn’t retain
his position in the Australian XI. Johns went in ’99,
Carter in 1902, and Newland is in the present team—alias
second “ stumpers ” to Kelly. The selection committee
of the team this year should give Kelly more spells and
the “ understudy ” more work.
* * * *
The Australian XI. members are aged as fol-
lows : Cotter 21, Gehrs 24, Armstrong and Duff 26, Hill
Trumper, and Newland 27, Hopkins 28, Noble 31, Gregory
and Darling 34, Howell, McLeod and Laver 35, Kelly 37.
* * * *
By demoralising Waverley and scooping in
8 wickets for 86 runs on Saturday, Central Cumberland
cricketer L. W. Pye gave the denial to those who allege
that he is no trundler. His bowling was of a very high
order, and but for many catches being dropped and faulty
fielding, his average would have been much better.
* * * *
Doubtful if Cotter’s fast ones will be of very
much assistance to. the Australian team in England. At
the first they will no doubt scare the batsmen, and a few
of the unfortunates may be killed, but the way that Gehrs
slogged even the swiftest of them when he got the stroke,
proves that they look a lot worse than they really are. it
would be unfortunate if one of them should strike Warner ;
nothing would dissuade the English press that we hadn’t
sent Cotter home specially to wreak revenge on him for
libelling our country.
* * -Jr *
“Old man ’’ J. C. Reedman, of S. Aus., reaped
17 wickets in inter-State matches, the highest tally
during the presentseason.
The plaint of “G. 8.” : Samuel Johnson once de-
clared that the ruin was assured of a nation wholly given
over to trading,, which brought about no internal increase
and entailed a mere gambling with values, without any
real addition to the sum-total of national wealth. Were
his ghost to re-visit the earth to-day and take passage
from his beloved London to Australia, he would be com-
pelled to re-model his aphorism and to ask how long could
a people exist almost wholly devoted to sport—even with
the aid of the foreign money-lender ? For we are appar-
ently rapidly approaching' an epoch wherein all our able-
bodied, both men and women, will be professional foot-
ballers, cricketers, cyclists, boat-sailers, scullers, anglers,
swimmers, polo players, pedestrians, pugilists, two-up
spielers, tennis players, rifle shots and jockeys; while
most of the older and physically incapable will earn their
daily bread and beer by barracking, betting, bookmaking,
horse-training, sweep-promoting, tote-running, and
gambling. The remainder, if any, will live by shop-keep-
ing, liquor-selling, entertaining and preaching. A few
will run ponies all the week while talking temperance on
Sundays. Of course, it is possible that, in the days to
come, all the championships will be held in Australia,
which will then have become the playground of the
world, and will raise revenue by charging the other
nations for admission—so much to land, so much a week
to remain, and so much for admission to the races and
sports then going on. In those days, the Australian XI.
will form the Federal Cabinet; M. A. Noble will be Prime
Minister ; Larry Foley will refuse the High Commissioner-
ship for the more lucrative post of Referee over the Inter-
national Boxing Matches ; and Jockey Barden, Swimmer
Cavill and Footballer Wickham will constitute the High
Court —all the disputes then coming before that august
body being of a sporting character. That is what we are
coming to.
* * * *
The German residents at Lobethal, in the hills
behind Adelaide, decided their annual “ Kingship ” shoot
this year in great style. Open to all comers, it has been
won for five years by J. T. Lake, the international shot,
who got himself disliked by objecting to march in pro-
cession with a kingly wreath round his brow. This time
he was away winning a much bigger event in W.A., so
Paech won, with Henzenroder 2nd and Bom 3rd, and the
winner was crowned with oakleaves by Miss Altman, and
secretary Kleinschmidt saw to it that all Lobethal swam
in lager bier.
* * *
*
The Bulletin has received “International
Cricket, England v. Australia—Review of Fifty-one Great
Test Matches,” compiled by R. H. Campbell and edited
by “ Old Cricketer,” and is still amazed at the amount of
method and careful statistics the cricket crank gets into
his madness. There is no detail of the matches described
which seems to have escaped the notice of this pains-
taking book, and everything is tabulated and indexed, so
that to the man who writes cricket notes the work is a
most valuable one for reference.
* * * *
A. A. Cameron, Scotland’s champion all-round
athlete, and G. H. Johnstone, ex-champion, arrived in
Dunedin (M.L.) in time to compete at the New Year
sports. Wrestling with Cameron, R. J. Scott, the M.L.
champion, at one time looked like a winner ; but looks
told another lie. Cameron, who beat George Lurich, but
was beaten by Hackenschmidt about twelve months ago,
says he wants another go with the Russian. He weighs
I7st. odd. Johnstone is taller than Cameron, weighs 16st.,
is steely-grey-haired with a little hit off the top. In his
two ’rastling bouts with J. Riordan (from M.L. West
Coast), the Scot went down ; and Riordan succumbed to
Harry Pearce about a couple of months ago.
* * * *
“Delhi” Neilson, the tough little Bendigo
miner who tried in vain to make a match with Carkeek,
was allowed to meet Hackenschmidt on his own terms.
The big man clothed his nakedness in a canvas jacket,
same as Neilson, and got his first public experience of
Cornish wrestling at Melbourne Opera House last week.
Neilson, a victorious expert in his own style, had
looked a likely winner “on paper,” but this impression
was not confirmed when he faced Hackenschmidt on the
stage: The difference in their weights was exactly 5
stone, arid the big ’un proved to be a mighty smart novice
at the game. No wrestling on the mat in the Cornish
style. The trick riiust be done in one act, both shoulders
and one hip, or both hips and one shoulder striking the
mat at the same time before the fall counts. Neilson was
downed several times, but he fell safely face downwards
as a rule. Then he succeeded in getting a “ crook ”on
Hackenschmidt’s left leg. It made no difference to the
huge Russian, who carried his man along with him,
“ crook ” and all. Finally he worked the one point that
the little chap had been afraid of—the point which was
bound to end the unequal struggle. Getting a suitable
grip of Neilson’s jacket, he drew him to his chest off his
feet, and fell upon him fair and square. Time, 6min. 40sec.
This combination of strength and weight was too much
for the nimble tactician.
* * *
Standard of Queensland swimming is advancing
remarkably, spite of poor facilities for practice. Young
Springfield’s mile the other day topped anything done by
Australian champions prior to the advent of Cavill, Reran
and co., and Dan Gailey’s “ hundred ” (in 1.2 2-5) was
also good. Quality of Queensland swimming is only
second to that of N.S.W.
« * * *
Cecil Healey’s win of the 100yds. championship
of N.S.W. was accomplished in the face of a strong wind
at Elkington Park Baths. Owing to a badly-scratched
knee Wickham didn’t swim, and Healey was never worried
in the whole race. He got in front at the first, and kept
on increasing his lead till he was two yards in front of
Murray, the second man. The time (lmin. 1 l-ssee.) was
decidedly slow, but is accounted for by the strong N.E.
wind.
* » * *
During past week some of Sydney’s fore-front
sprint swimmers have been doing big things. Hobson
(Randwick and Ooogee Club) threw GO yards behind in
34 3-ssec. at Redfcrn carnival, Monday night, which sup-
planted Australian Fred Lane’s previous world’s record —-
35 l-ssec.—and that, strangely enough, is exactly what
schoolboy champion “ Len ” Murray did at North Sydney
Club’s three-event meeting a few days before over 6 yards
more (66), but, as he swam with costume short of that re-
quired by rules, and watch-holders were not specially
appointed by the Amateur Swimming Association, his
performance (though a great one) doesn’t count as a
record. Difference racing with ordinary swimming trunks
and the full costume makes to a swimmer is demonstrated
by the fact that Hobson, wearing trunks only, swam 81
yards in 48 2-ssec., and with the complete outfit couldn’t
do better than 49sec. over a yard less.
* * » *
Jockey W. Henderson, fatally injured by a fall
from Silvermine in a lepping affair at Perth, the other
day, was verging on 50 ; he had ridden jumpers for years
(between 20 and 30), particularly in Queensland, without
once having the slightest offence charged against him.
* * . * *
Adelaide Racing Club, fearful of “ ringing in,”
has decided that markings and brands of all known nags
shall be taken before they go out to race. N.S.W.
National Coursing Association has had that check for dogs
during past two or three years.
Entries for Doncaster Handicap and Sydney
Cup (A. J.C. Autumn meeting) are short this year. The
Doncaster has 106 as against 115 last year, and Sydney
Cup 70, as against 80, but the quality of the horses en-
gaged is better than before. Sydney Turf Club’s anni-
versary meeting (two days) has attracted 143 entries—
three better than last year.
* • * *
James Scobie’s stable supplies eight of the 22
entries for the Champion Stakes, and the most imposing
names are among Scobie’s lot. But if a 3-year-old is to
win this year’s Champion—and the youngsters have the
best of the w.f.a. scale in March—it will probably be old
Jimmy Wilson’s Blinker, who ran so stoutly in the
Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Westralian sports seem to be impressed by the
fact that two or three locally-bred 2-year-olds are showing
their heels to the best of the imported ones this season.
It remains to be seen whether these precocious juveniles
will continue to shine by comparison with the foreigners.
The average climate of Westralia is perhaps good for the
development of racehorses.
When Merry Del Yal was made a cardinal by
Pius X., it was cabled out to the Australian papers —
“Merry Delval Cardinal.” One Launceston daily sent
the wire on to the sporting editor. The three names, of
course, meant to him the placed horses in an English
race. He turned up his English sporting book, and thus
the cable appeared next day
The Turf in England.
The Old Tom Stakes were run for to-day: Merry 1,
Delval 2, Cardinal 3.
„ * * *
M.L. Axemen’s Association’s annual meeting at
Eltham last month-end saw a dozen well-endorsed con-
testants, representative of the whole continent, compete
in Championship Chop—2ft. standing block. World’s
premier underhand and standing chopper, Victorian Gus
Blanc—who has held the title two years and owns the
record (3min. 58sec.) for a 2ft. block—won with 30 seconds
to spare after a tussle, throughout which each competitor
had every ounce up. Previous year’s winner, Maorilander
Hutton, struck a particularly knotty job and used up
three axes in dealing with it. Pretty (Hamilton) beat
Casey (Eltham) for second by just a blow or two, and the
pair were lOsec. in front of Tasmanian Goold. Winner’s
time was smin. 34 2-ssec. Third man, C. W. Casey, ap-
propriated the championships in .1901 (smin. 15sec.) and
1902 (6min. 13 2-ssec.).
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron has hitherto been in
the lucky position of having its prize-fund regularly
guaranteed by that good sport, Mark Foy. This year
Foy reckoned it was time the dog learned to swim, and
cast the club adrift on its own resources with a cheque
for £5O and his blessing.
* * * *
The five yachts that started in the Prince Alfred
Club’s ocean race, on Saturday, found the north-east
breeze blowing in the harbor with the fury of a young
typhoon. Outside, it was comparatively calm, and the
CYCLIST GEORGE FARLEY, Australia's
Champion Sprinter.
Photo, by Herbst, Sydney.
boats, that had been reefed down inside, set topsails when
through the Heads. True to her name, Dempster’s Petrel
took the lead after passing St. George’s Head, and climbed
the short steep seas outside splendidly. Handled by A.
C. Saxton, Magic flew along in pursuit, but it was a hope-
less chase, and the Petrel rounded the mark an easy
winner.
* » * *
The gusty nor’-easter, the choppy seas, and the
keenness of the struggle between Vision and Donnelly
made the Sydney Sailing Club’s race for the 18-foot
championship exciting. Donnelly went to the front at
Bradley’s Head, where the Arline promptly went right
over and gave her crew a thorough ducking, and for a time
it looked as though the Vera would also come to grief at
the same spot. Immediately Donnelly got the lead Vision
came in pursuit. At Chowder Head the Qui Vive took
a big cargo of water on board. Vision was then only a
minute behind Donnelly. With small ballooners hoisted
they came shooting up the harbor, the Vision steadily
overhauling the leader till Fort Denison was reached, and
the Vision was only 17 seconds behind her quarry. Don-
nelly rounded like a flash, but the Vision lost time shift-
ing the ballooner, and at the next timing at Shark Island
Donnelly had increased his lead to 25 seconds. Then the
Vision made a supreme effort. Shooting out a big bal-
looner and hoisting a topsail, she fairly flew along, over-
took and then passed Donnelly, drew right away, and
won by 14 seconds. It was a great race.
Of the seven boats that entered for the 14ft.
championship of St. George’s Club (Botany Bay) two did
not start owing to death in the family of the owners, and
a third had to retire from the race on account of the
heavy weather. The N.E. breeze and choppy water made
Saturday an exciting day for pleasure craft. Of the four
that got through the task, Irex got in front early and
stayed there till the finish, with last year’s champion
boat, the Clio, in close attendance, only a minute behind.
* ♦ * *
Thorwald Ellegaard, three times champion
of the world, at present champion of Europe for
the second time, is a tall, fair man with a
serious expression and a keen sense of humor.
At present, conversation with him can only be carried on
with the aid of Mrs. Ellegaard, who speaks English well.
Ellegaard first took to biking at the age of 18, purely for
purposes of pleasure, and for three years raced as an
amateur, and was content with the pewter tea-pot and
the dubious shield. His first professional appearance was
at Copenhagen, when, on the off-chance of doing some-
thing fairly remunerative, he entered for a big meeting
at which the championship of the country was at stake.
When the big race was over, the order was —Ellegaard,
first; Bourelliau (then champion of France), second;
Jacquelin, third ; Arent, fourth. Copenhagen was wild
with delight that night that the national premiership had
been gained by a Dane. It was in Berlin in 1901 that he
first won the championship of the world, and Kaiser Bill
immediately had him brought to the palace under a
strong guard, where he lectured him and presented him
with a silver cannon. The second time he won the great
race it was run in Rome, and King Victor Emmanuel pre-
sented him with a gold watch and chain, the former bear-
ing his initials in brilliants. The third occasion was back
in his own city (Copenhagen), and after the race the
King of Denmark walked up and —shook hands with
him. Ellegaard chuckles softly and requests Mrs. Elle-
gaard to explain that the King is liberality itself, but
spends so much of his meagre allowance on really good
objects like education that he has nothing left for pro-
fessional people who are already well-paid During the
three years he was champion of the world Ellegaard won
178 first prizes, and received good appearance money as
well. He says France is the best country in the world
for the professional cyclist—there are bigger prizes and
more of them than elsewhere. He has raced in Denmark,
Holland, Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Russia,
England and Australia. Likes the Australian climate
best of all; but, naturally, prefers France for business
purposes' and comfort of living. They order a lot of
things better in France. In Russia the racing season is
the winter, and it is carried on indoors. Ellegaard
raced at both St. Petersburg and Moscow. He thinks
that if Australian cyclists are to make a splash abroad
they will have to give up the long handicap races and go
in for the short sprint. In Europe they will have noth-
ing but the short sprint with the lightning finish. On
the Continent all the cycling is carried on on Sundays.
In Paris Ellegaard gets up to £75 for Sunday appearances
alone, and all the prizes he can win—some of them big
ones. When his Australian season is over he will return
to Europe, and has at present no intention of going to
the U.S.A. He can make more money in the old world.
* * •* •*
“Truth”: Saw crack cyclist Lawson ride his
mile at Sydney Cricket Ground,. Wednesday last week,
and took it with a very reliable watch, which showed over
four seconds slower than the official 1.47 4-5. Others near
me made the time 1.53. Next day met a well-known
Sydney jeweller who has had years of experience in timing
races, and ascertained he had two watches on the sprint
and each made it 1.52|. Evidently nothing like 1.47 4-5
was done.
* * * *
The announcement that the Australian Federal
Cycling Council will hold its next annual meeting in
Sydney has not brought any wild joy to followers of the
sport. So far, the council has done nothing to justify its
existence, and there were many enthusiastic followers of
cycling who were unaware of the existence of the council
till they saw it being used by boodlers to spray the white-
wash over the pie-biters.
Somebody in Melbourne made a desperate
attempt to make the Sydney January cycling carnival a
farce. Many of the best riders were advised that it would
be well to stay away from the Sydney meeting, as the
Sydney Council would disqualify any rider who beat the
fellow who carried the council’s coin. Some actually got
scared and asked for special guarantees that they
wouldn’t be disqualified except under certain conditions.
Sydney Council certainly has its faults, but it is not
quite so cronk or mad as all that. In the end no
guarantees were given, and everybody raced and was
satisfied as far as the control of the meeting was con-
cerned. With all its faults, the Sydney management is
considerably cleaner than that of Melbourne.
* * * *
The final heat of the international race between
George Farley and Thorwald Ellegaard, at Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday, proves the Victorian to be as
had as a sportsman as he is great as a rider. Of his ability
to ride a stiff uphill race the first heat was proof absolute.
The great Dane had actually headed him, and left him
nearly a length behind, when, in spite of the speed at
which both were travelling, Farley again jumped level,
and finished half a wheel in front. This startling finish
made for intense excitement in the second heat. Out
went all but the track lights, and, as the pacer dropped
out, Ellegaard streaked away as though hooked to an
invisible motor. Farley went after him, but the Dane
was ten yards away, and although the Australian whirled
along at what seemed a tremendous speed, the Dane
reeled away in front, lengthening the gap between
them every second, till he crossed the line fully
25 yards ahead. It seemed pretty plain that when
Ellegaard put his ears back the Victorian had no hope.
The third and half-mile heat started auspiciously, Farley
trailing the pacer, and apparently waiting till that indi-
vidual should drop out to make his jump. Ellegaard an-
ticipated him, and with another most amazing leap he
passed Farley and the pacer. Farley shot out after him,
then suddenly slowed down and held up his hand. The
way that Ellegaard streaked round that remaining half
lap was wonderful to see. When he dismounted he
learned that Farley had protested that he had been inter-
fered with by Ellegaard crossing in front of him to take
the inside place. Ellegaard was very indignant, as well
he might be, for, as far as could be seen, the protest was
frivolous. Ellegaard crossed to the inside running too far
in front of the Victorian to interfere with him in any way.
The League ordered the heat to be re-run.
* » * «
Maoriland cyclist Albert G. Campion, having
made up his mind to go in search of foreign capital,
descended on Westralia and won the Westral Wheel Race,
the value of which was a cool £2OO. This was a good
beginning. Probable result will be that Canterbury will
empty itself on to the Australian mainland in search of
lucre at cycle race meetings.
* * * »
Victorian Injured Cyclist Fund has become
hard up—a fact attributed to the throwing open of the
track at the Exhibition Building, and a consequent heavy
crop of spills. Visiting wheeling stars are co-operating in a
special benefit meeting to be held in April. The Vic.
cyclists can’t have much humor, because they have
decided to run the benefit special off on the Exhibition
track 1
* # # *
Sailor Sharkey, the ’Murkan bruiser, who has
just retired from the ring a rich man, was a sort of
Admirable Crichton in his way. He discovered that he
had stamina, grit, and great hitting power. So he took
to bruising deliberately as a business. He lived carefully,
was a keen business man, paid as much attention to the
collection of the dollars as to the other part of the busi-
ness ; and, with perhaps the exception of his scrap with
Fitzsimmons, always fought square and fought well.
When he knew he was beaten he still fought on gamely
to give the spectators their money’s worth. It was good
business, he said. And it was. Now that he has amassed
sufficient wealth to keep him in what he considers -com-
fort for the rest of his days, he retires from a business
which, he says, had never any particular attraction for him
except as a money-making show.
Published that young Griffo is again on deck in
Chicago (U.S.A.), where he is said to have turned “blue
ribbon,” and to be making a comfortable living teaching.
* * * *
They killed professional bruising in one hit in
Maoriland. The new Act gives the police power to pro-
hibit anyone charging for admission to see a bruising
match, and when the Griffin family went down to Dunedin
to knock spots off the local talent, and thereby raise
wealth to send Jim Griffin to Sydney, the Act was sud-
denly enforced. The promoters took up a collection —in
Dunedin, where even the Chinaman has to call himself
MacPhairson to live. A ghastly array of empty soup-
plates showed them the error of their way, and there’ll
be no more professional bruising in Dunedin.
* * * •
For the man who loves to watch two other
fellows knock pieces off each other, Sydney is just now a
rather dull locality. At Sydney National Sporting Club
last Tuesday night week two very sick men faced each
other and reduced the business to a howling farce. Harold
Smith was suffering from stomachic trouble, and B.
Whitelaw had influenza, and every time Whitelaw
stopped a tap he looked as though someone had
knocked the top off his head. Anyhow, it was a wretched
exhibition, and was brought to an abrupt conclusion by
the gentleman with the ’flu butting the other invalid on
the nose with the top of his head. If he really had influ-
enza—and he fought as though he had all the seven deadly
complaints—no wonder he was anxious to get away from
the ring. Imagine being hit on the nose while suffering
from influenza !
• * * *
The Green-Murphy contest at the Gaiety Club
on Saturday night began with deadly tameness, but in
the fourth round both feather and bantam livened up.
Green’s nose began to assume a bashed appearance, and
Murphy’s whole face showed signs of wear. Later on
Murphy assumed a dazed look, and then Green began to
wear a far, far away expression. Both seemed to stop a
great many blows with the face. After the 19th they
were both very sick, and each waited for the other to
attack, and when the last gong sounded the referee de-
clared it a draw.
* * * *
Announced that Tom Colquitt, the amazing
English lepper with Wirths’ Circus, recently established
an Australian best. Thomas is a wonderful “ lepper ” ;
at Phillip Park (Syd.) he used to leap 20 yards on to the
top of a pile of eggs, and, without smashing any of them,
leap off again on to the surface of a tub of water, and
without making a ripple leap off that on to the face of a
supernumerary. If the supernumerary wasn’t there he
hired a mosquito. His Australian record was established
in a match against Morris Davis, in which he conceded
4|ft. Davis had no hope, and at the last Colquitt
sprang 40ft. 7in.
Bad. Breath.
THE TONGUE IS THE INDEX.
Your breath is foul, and you do not perceive it
yourself. Like the person who is always among
the oils and varnishes, and gets used to what is to
many people a most obnoxious smell. It is most
disagreeable to those with whom you come in con-
tact. Look at your tongue in the looking-glass
every night and morning, and if it is at all dis-
colored take a couple of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They will remove the objectionable matter
from the stomach, regulate the system, and
sweeten the breath. One or two of these pills
taken two or three times a week will ensure a
well-regulated system, fortified against all diseases.
They cleanse the stomach, put life in the liver, a
move to the bowels and thereby are a positive and
Permanent cure for constipation, biliousness, sick
eadache, piles, pimples, boils, skin diseases, and
all diseases arising from imperfect digestion and
impure blood. Packed in amber bottles, and sold
throughout Australasia.*


Accidents to Workers.
THE VALUE OF ZAM-BUK PROVED.
CCIDENTS will happen in the best regulated work-
shops, the best equipped factories, and in the best
improved mines ; and no “first aid” installation can
be considered adequate or up-to-date without a work-
man’s size pot of Zam-Buk, which is an in-
valuable healer besides being soothing and
antiseptic. The following is a striking
illustration : —“ While following my occu-
pation,” says Mr. T. Mansell, coachbuilder,
of Keig-street, Newtown, Sydney, “I am
constantly knocking the skin off my hands
and cutting my fingers. These wounds
fester and take some considerable time to
heal, although all sorts of household reme-
dies have been tried. Seeing Zam-Buk
advertised, I procured a pot, and am
pleased to say that in Zam-Bulc I found just
the balm I required. Its healing action was
prompt, and where it was applied no festering
followed. I strongly recommend Zam-Buk as
an invaluable healing and antiseptic balm, which
should be in every home, especially where there
are children.”
ť
ŧ
t
Every Worker Weeds ZAM-BUK.
ZAM-BUK, the Great Healer, is a SPEEDY CURE for PILES, ECZEMA,
BOILS, RUNNING SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, BARCOO, etc. As an
EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES ancl TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed
well into the parts affected, is unequalled. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM for CUTS,
BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, PRICKLY HEAT, FRECKLES,
SUNBURN, RASH, and BITES of INSECTS. ZAM-BUK is invaluable. From all
Medicine Vendors, 1/6, or 3/6 FAMILY SIZE (containing nearly four tunes the
quantity), or from THE ZAM-BUK CO., PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
:.■////// - ////,- >,
AMMm
>• ■ i.
»
i
z
A
%
a
z
35
z
mm
z
//
-s/v/A
m
mm
m
////
/
‘"m/'
VZ
///
1
z
wm -
A*
//
fj
ST
Z ;
esf.
VZZ'V-v'/••
. ®
p
WiWJV; V
A Nib,
A Bottle of Ink,
A Sheet of Paper,
and
THE
m
miSA.
LETTER BOOK
Makes a complete outfit
with which any man, wo-
man or child can write a
letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy.
From C. Plummer, Rutland Street, Auckland, N.Z.,
Straw Hat .Manufacturer. . August 18, 1902.
Two months’ trial of the P*n Carbon Lettbr Book obtained from you has satisfied ub
that your
roduce
reserve
revent
ARSON
lean
opies
onfusion
ETTER
egible
asting
oss and
Books
ad Language
Yours faithfully, C. PLUMMEIU
The Pen Carbon Letter Book
Is a True and Valued Friend.
Sole Australasian
Agents
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.
E. RICH & CO„ Ltd.
Agent for Victoria—ANDßEW SHERAR & CO., 101103 Elizabeth St., Melbonrne.
ţ
This is the strongest recom-
mendation ever given to
any Shaving Soap, and was
obtained solely on merit.
EVERY BARBER ON THE WORLD’S FAIR GROUNDS AT ST. LOUIS USES
Williams’ Shaving Soap
EXCLUSIVELY.
Send a Penny Stamp for WILLIAMS’ TRIPLET KEY RlNG—Three Tools in one.
I R WII I TAnS CO GLASTONBURY, CONN v U.S.A.
*j. u. yyiL,L,mi 10 2 3 2 clarence st., Sydney.
W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS
Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Exposition, 1904.
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 310 & 297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
AH Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S CUNS and RIFLES—a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
ť
(Greener’s Representative).
TO HOTELKEEPERS 7
If Trade is Dull, Buy a Set of
POKER DICE.
Settles the Drink Question in Two Shakes.
Sent by Registered Post to any address on receipt of
Five Shillings.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO., Box 457, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS
B
USHMAN AND BUCCANEER,
Price, Is. Id.; Post Free.
ASK
FRANZ JOSEF Laser
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors
ŧ
To His Majesty
The King:.
MOIR’S
“MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
Highly Flavored and Transparent.
SPECIALLY RECOMMENDED.
New Season’s
KIPPERED
HERRINGS
Half the price of Salmon.
“MOIR’S” pack only.
Specially Selected Fish
Insist on having “ MOIR’S. ”
Sydney Agency: 5 Macquarie Place.
To
Mine Managers,
Engineers, &c.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
i • i
is recommended to Mine Managers. Its
Efficiency and Durability under wet conditions
renders its use more economical than leather
belting. Made endless (without stretch), any
length, up to 60 inches wide.
SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION. J
DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. ot AUST. LTD..
108 Flinders St.. Melbourne : 150 Clarence St.,
Sydney ; 117 Grenfell St.. Adelaide; 268-270 Adelaida,
St.. Brisbane; 617 Hay St., Perth; 128 Lichfield St..
Christchurch, N.Z.
‘..'A
m
mm
%
7/M
mm
m
V.uV
5 !
Dunlop
Are Recommended
in all cases where
good wear is required
You will find the Qualify
and Prtce right. Sample
of any class of Packing
on application.
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 150 Clarence
Street, Sydney; 117 Grenfell Street, Adelaide;
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; 617 Hay
Street, Perth; 128 Lichfield Street, Christ-
church. N.Z.
iw
A startling hint, from London Times, to
such as are worried by too much birth-rate :
YOUNG married lady with five children (husband’s
income very small) wishes to be adopted by very
wealthy old lady or gentleman (without relatives),
who would pay for children’s education and provide
for their future. Replies to
And the husband—the husband with the very
small income—does he get adopted, too ?
The biggest importing scare N.S.W. has
had was in 1841-2, when the Orwell sailed into
port with a big cargo of green tea from China. A
rumor got out that the tea was poisoned. After
the Chinese war of 1838 the Chinese resolved on
many curious forms of revenge, and among them, it
was alleged, was the poisoning of all:“barbarians.”
That allegation was the basis: of the green tea
scare. The chests, when opened in Sydney, gave
forth a terrible stench. The tea was, however,
sent inland in great quantities.- The Queensland
(at that time part of N.S.W.)'stations were speci-
ally invaded. Station hands struck work in all
directions; many fled when they heard of the tea
arriving. Really the tea, though smelling horril ly
through bad packing, was not. injurious to health,
and as the stationholders got it almost for nothing
they determined to make their hands use it. A
portion was destroyed, but in the end it went
freely into consumption; and as no deaths weie
caused by using it, the scare gradually died down.
“Kaylee” : Wentworth, out in the back
of N.S.W., where they still make odd efforts to
settle people, is trying to think it’s alive after it
has been dead for years. Besides the prison cells,
it has an elaborate gaol which never has a
prisoner, the four policemen never having an
opportunity to lock anybody up. There is a large
hospital with never any patients, and a fire brigade
with a high look-out and no horses to pull the
reel. Residents practise every evening at pulling
the reel about, in the forlorn hope that some day
there will be a fire.
“ S.G.M.” : One time two friends of mine
worked a eucalyptus still up in the Dandenong
Ranges (Vic.). Hearing of a man in the vicinity
in the last stage of consumption, they offered to
cure him, and one night they carried him off to
the camp. Taking the top off the large boiler in
which the eucalyptus leaves were boiled, they sus-
pended the consumptive over the fumes, and sat
smoking, watching him. Somehow they fell
asleep, and forgot their patient. Towards inid-
night one awakened, and realised, with a thrill of
horror, that the patient was still simmering over
the boiler. They cut the consumptive down, and,
thinking they had done for him. the distillers of
cough-mixtures took to their tent, and in a trice
had gathered'their belongings and scooted. It
was not till some years after they heard that their
patient had realiy been cured, and was doing well.
Once more the advertising columns of the
“ great dailies ” are sprinkled with advts. :
“Governess wanted, teach all English subjects,
drawing, painting, advanced music, violin, needle-
work, &c. Salary, £2(5 a year. ’ Some of these
unfortunate sweated creatures in Victoria have
plucked upenough courage to talk about their griev-
ances in the press and to have the audacity to
suggest the formation of a union to keep up prices.
Governesses, women clerks (and men clerks for the
matter of that), have nothing to hope for from the
Tory employers who flatter them with the adjec-
tive “genteel” and then sweat them dismally,
presuming that their “gentility” will prevent
them from protesting. Let them go straight
for unionism and radicalism in politics and they
will find work conditions becoming better.
Bruce Smith may yet t ike o.r Ins ua u u>
the yellow brother who has accepted the brief (at
a great reduction) which he had hopes of getting
himself. Philadelphia Post mentions that the
S’African Bar is “ scandalised by the apparition of
a colored man from Trinidad duly qualified to
practise as a barrister.” Theoretically the S’African
Bar almost to a man is for colored labor ; but its
members never expected that the curse would
come home to roost on the Bar —their Bar.
A man was shifting a stack of drain-pipes
at 58 Queen’s Bridge-st., South Melbourne, the
other day, when a grey rabbit ran out of them and
into the street, then doubled back again into the
railway yard, and hid in a heap of old machinery at
the back, and themen have not interfered with him
since. He had probably heard of the poor farmers
of Collins-st. (whom the Victorian Land Tax Act
saves from exaction) and had come to sample their
crop"-.
In prosecuting a S. Australian waterworks
superintendent for embezzlemt nt, the Jenkins
Govt, showed itself up as a swi ater of the worst
description. The amount alleged to have been
embezzled was small; and all that was proved was
that the overworked official, who had to personally
get in rates amounting to £3OOO annually, had
overlooked entering one or two items. One of the
sums was traced —it had been forwarded to the;
Kept, in Adelaide though not entered in the heel
of the book. The officer, working the whole con-
cern single-handed, had had no leave for 10 years ;
his working day averaged 12 hours; and he hau
to walk all over a huge district hunting up tho
rates. The Bench unanimously found him not
guilty, but unfortunately suppressed its opinic n of
the prosecutior.


ABA
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when von
pre«« votir finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ?If so, under the skin you have poison th»• t defies a!,
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on suffering till death release*
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may he wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but t WILL. Because
others have failed ie no reason for not how being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, .Sore Throat, Bronchitis.
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, ]/l}d. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS.* Sydney. Purchasers shomd
look for trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Kegd. copyright.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceed ngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Lta '
MARTIN’S
empiOL& steel
MffilssaPlLLS
Are sold by all Chemists throughout
Australasia. Not genuine without the
signature. Be sure you get Martin’s. Sole
Proprietor, W. MARTIN, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, SOUTHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
MARTIN’S
& STEEL
A@pius
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney and Adelaide.
When your Eyes call for Attention
t
Go TO THE MOST SKILFUL AND EXPERT PEOPLE,
OSBORN & JERDAN,
CONSULTING OPTICIANS and
SPECTACLE MAKERS, ....
393 George Street ( Roy F a 7 Hotel) t Sydney,
Special Testing Rooms. Up-to-date Appliances. Skilled Opticians to attend to you.
ţ
Beauty Smiles on HURSTS BOOTS
Ladies’ Black G/aco
Kid Button Boots,
Welts or
Pumps.
A.Am 130.
Gentlemen’s Box
Calf, Terrace
Soled Welts.
1916.
Ladles’ Glace
Kid Balmorals,
Welts or Fumps.
A.A. 171.
Gentlemen’s
Glace Kid
Balmorals, Welts.
19/6 .
ROBT. HURST can supply Boots of the best
material, style and value because he is the largest
Manufacturer and Retailer in the Commonwealth.
ROBT. HURST’S FACTORY at Queen’s
Parade, North Fitxroy, employs 300 hands, and
the immense success of the 20 Branches in Melbourne and
throughout Victoria is based upon giving every satis-
faction to the public.
Visitors to Melbourne should call and inspect our
Flinders arid Svvanston Streets branches. We want to
supply country residents by Mail, and send all orders post
and duty free to every State except W.A.
Our Mail Order Address is—
Robt. Hurst,
QUEEN’S PARADE,
North Fitzroy, Melbourne.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED,
J.A.K.”: Know a Melbourne lady with
a quiver full who has had experience of the diffi-
culty of getting a suitable house, owing to owners’
objections to encumbrances. Now she sends her
youngsters to see the Springthorpe monument
while she interviews the .owner or the agent.
“Family?” “ Yes, poor dears,” she says,'“six
of them ; and they’re all in the cemetery.”
“R.M.” : Whatever you do, teach ’em to
read ; thus you give them a chance to get away
from themselves. Worked on a farm one time.
Sunday : I’m reading. Day not long enough.
But some of the cookies wouldn’t read, or couldn’t
read, and they, all day : “ Ain't Sunday a long
day?” “ Ain’t Sunday a cow of a day ? ” “A man
d be better at work.”
Although a recent Maoriland Act provides
that a private application may be made for a pro-
hibition order against a person, nothing was done
in the more urgent matter of the establishment of
Children’s Courts. Government probably thought
that it would mean great additional expense, and
shied at the proposal. Yet the Auckland beak
has ushered in the reform without the slightest
fuss by trying all cases against youngsters in his
private room. This could easily be copied through-
out the State without any expense whatever.
“ Bunny” : Bought butter in five different
shops in Broken Hill, only to find that a labelled
pound weighs 13 or 14 ounces. When I com-
plained of short weight, I was informed that the
curious climatic conditions of B. H. caused the
shrinkage. Shrinkage is nearly as common a
disease locally as typhoid. In fact I have begun
to shrink myself. One would not mind if one’s
bills shrink proportionately, but they don’t.
Before things get any more tangled, the
G.P.O. ought to make a rule to refuse a P.O. to any
place which has the same, or - nearly the same,
name as any post-office town already in existence
in the Commonwealth. The rule adopted in
U.S.A. (although only as regards each State) has
saved a lot of trouble and no end of time to P.O.
sorters. It might have been lately used to stop
the stupid alteration of the name of Lad Robin-
son’s Beach to Brighton-le-Sands, seeing that
already Victoria, South Australia, and Tasmania
own a Brighton apiece.
Thus “ Spare-Me-Days ” :—•
The examination farce is about the hollowest yet stage-
managed by N.S.W. Public Service Board. Writer, after
a lifetime’s experience, is convinced that the worst officers
are those who pass highest in examinations. They mostly
use the service as a means to live until, by attending Uni-
versity night classes, they can qualify for a profession.
The smartest officers now in the service—Lockyer, Collec-
tor of Customs ; Curry, President of Land Board ; Saun-
ders, Under-Secretary for Finance and Trade ; Brodie,
Chief Inspector of Accounts ; Charlie Gregory, the ac-
knowledged ablest accountant in the Federal service—all
entered as cadets at from 13 to 15 years of age. They
have not yet competed for the silly honor instituted by
the P.S.B. of dux of the service. If they did some junior
would probably beat them hollow.
“ H.E.R.” : In Perth, there is an unlucky
shop. It was half burned down once. Then one
night a big water-pipe burst, and poured a few
hundred gallons all over the silks—a milliner had
the lease then. This broke the milliner. Six
people in one year tried to start a business there,
and failed. Among them were a tailor and hatter
(he went mad), a bootmaker, a land agent, and a
fruiterer. There was also a fortune-teller, and a
head-reader, and a renowned herbalist. Lately, a
man filled the window up with magazines, and
called it a “ bookstall.” To-day the window is
empty again, and a fine, big, fat Jew is talking to
the landlord and smiling. Perhaps he’ll open a
pawnshop, and call it “Young Australia Loan
Office.”
A Methodist “circuit,” in one of the best-
favored southern parts of S. Australia, had a 50th
anniversary, the other day ; and the connexional
historian furnished the “circuit’s” chronicles,
which contained this ghastly fragment of fact: —
At Corn Hill, Springbank, and Carracalinga, the old
churches are now used as barns, &c. No use can lie made
of the ruin at Talisker, as only one house in the region is
occupied ; and, apart from the lighthouse-keeper’s, there
is only one; family at the Cape, where formerly 17 families
lived. The depopulation in many parts of tlie district is
saddening.
Adelaide papers—the Register especially—are
always talking about “our inheritance in the
Hills” ; and this district is on the southern and
well-watered fringe of those Hills. S. Australia
entered upon its inheritance 50 years ago; and
one family living now where formerly 17 lived is
the proud record of its achievement.
On a recent voyage of the Orizaba one of
the colored firemen handed in his checks at Fre-
mantle, and his comrades obtained permission to
bury him ashore, which they did with great cere-
mony. The corpse had been a true believer of some
sect or other, and according to his sectarian bill-
of-fare, should have been burnt, but circumstances
were not favorable. It is the custom, when a
Hindu is to be burnt, for four of his friends to
carry him to the burning grounds. One of the
rites of the religion is that, should the funeral
procession pass a pub, all hands must liquor up
for the good of the departed spirit. If a pub is
passed without this being done terrible things will
happen to the bearers. On one occasion which the
writer remembers the day was hot and the “stiff”
was an extra heavy-weight, consequently when a
pub was reached the four bearers indulged in long
sleevers of bhang. There were quite a number of
houses along the route, and the bearers blunged
at each one. When half the distance had been
covered the four were run in, and having left the
deceased lying on the .roadway while they re-
freshed, the police had to take it to the pyre and
finish it off. i


Trade
MarK
FOX
See that all FOX’S Serges and Coating's
are stamped every yard on the back,
with the above trade mark and the words
PURE INDIGO
as a guarantee of soundness of material
and dye.
FOX BROS. 8 Co. Ltd.,Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND
For the . . .
Complete
Enjoyment
Of your Summer Holiday
YOU WILL WANT A
Whether for a cycling or walking tour, or for any
other holiday, a KODAK will furnish that recreative
change you require. If you travel alone the KODAK
is the best of all companions. If vou go with triends
a KODAK adds to their enjoyment as well as
your own.
A SERVICEABLE KODAK
May be BOUGHT for 6/-
and a Complete Photographic Outfit for the
Beginner, including a
Kodak Daylicht Developing
Machine, for *3/-
Other KODAKS may be had at all
prices to suit every pocket.
ť
ŧ
To be obtained of all Dealers, or of
KODAK, Ltd., 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
As the Hall-mark on Silver, is the name “KODAK”
on Photographic Goods :: :: Refuse all imitations.
RADIUM.
Supplies of this rare element
of the highest radio-activity now
on hand.
Also Applicators for use in
therapeutic work.
Prof. Grooke’s Spinthariscope, to
show the activity
of Radium
£1 ss.
Extract from letter received from a Queens-
land M.D. to whom we supplied a small quantity o
Radium: —“ I am happy to inform you that I have
had a successful case—a cure of rodent ulcer of 10
years’ duration, which has now practically healed
after about three weeks’ treatment with your tube
(containing Radium). For this the patient, who had
tried all manner of treatment, should be truly grate-
ful to your enterprise in importing the latest marvel.”
W. WATSON & SONS
78 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
t
ANTI-
BILIOUS
LLS.
“ I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
A FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY." Invaluable to every Mother of a family, m
J~fje Xaqcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
27? <? British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
%
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
>nd <Ke AGED.
Bender's rooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
A S’African paper publishes a 10-line para-
graph under the heading “A Peculiar Mistake,”
telling how a Kaffir, charged with attempted
criminal assault on one of the same race, was sen-
tenced to receive 25 lashes, and, on being stripped
at the triangles, was discovered to be a woman.
Following the Australian custom nothing hap-
pened to the dusky damsel who laid the eharge.
Fine upstanding advertisement from
Evening News (Dunedin, M.L.): —
TO A HAT THIEF.
A BRAND-NEW FELT HAT was “ exchanged ” at
a local hotel last Thursday, and has not been
returned. If the present owner should escape hang-
ing, it is the late owner’s devout wish that the light-
ning from above may strike through the hat into his
miserable skull, and convince him that he is a low-
down thief and a disgrace to an honest hat.
“S.L.H.”: He introduced himself as a
phrenologist, and asked me in a confidential and
persuasive whisper to let him read my head and
tell me by what profession I should endeavor to
keep myself in cigarettes and the latest thing in
ties. As stern necessity had already decided this
detail for me, I refused. Then he warnted to read
my wife’s character; but I reckoned that after
five years I knew it pretty well already, arid that
an outlay of half-a-crown wasn’t justified. Next
he suggested running his hand over the servant
girl’s cranium—just to satisfy me that, the spoons
and an imitation silver mug were safe in her
charge. After that he told me a pitiful tale of his
sick wife and 75 children (I think he said 75, but
it might have been 74), and finished up by borrow-
ing 3d. The last I saw of him he was leaning
over the next-door fence, beseeching the lady of
the house to allow him to relate the future des-
tinies of her dog, or fowls, or husband, or some-
thing.


Amusements.
soottish entertainer, :
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter of
ROBERT BURNS and lAN MACLAREN.
Address : The Bulletin.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
l.ojsee .. .. .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Sub-Lessee .. .. Bland Holt,
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Up-to-Date Australian Anecdote, with
Special Seasonal Scenario, entitled,
A DESPERATE GAME.
Popular Prices—3s, 2S, and Is. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
LYCEU M THE AT RE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Director .. Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
Manager Mr. C. B. Westmacott.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of PRETTY PEGGY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 21,
IPgr~OLYDE FITCH’S NEW, ORIGINAL PLAY,
BLIKD MAN’S BUFF, HER OWN WAY,
by MISS NELLIE STEWART and Mr. GEORGE
MUSGROVE’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. P’rices as Usual.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite CRITERION THEATRE.
Under Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GRAND FAREWELL REVIVAL PERFORMANCES.
The Williamson
and Husso-Jap War.
TERMINATING MONDAY NEXT, JAN. 23rd.
Box Plan at Paling’s. • Day Sales at White Rose.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., ‘2s., Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2.
H.M.S. PINAFORE,
The Second Production of the GILBERT & SULLIVAN
SEASON, as
“ GREAT A SUCCESS AS EVER.”
Box Plan at Paling’s. JJ3T - PRICES AS USUAL.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
Instantaneous Success of MDLLE. OLLIVETTE.
Intense Excitement Created by the Marvellous
MADAME MARZELLA,
and her Wonderful Performing Tropical:Birds.
Great Success of THE FERNANDEZ MAY TRIO, a Novel,
Musical Entertainment, introducing Paper-tearing
Extraordinary.
PROF. DAVY’S MARIONETTES, introducing the Harle-
quinade of a Pantomime.
MDLLE. OLLIVETTE, The Marvellous Thoughtographist.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAST NIGHTS of
GEO. HACKENSCHMIDT, World’s Champion Wrestler.
Change Programme by LES FRASETTIS. Musical Novelties,
OREQSC:i & IiOODFsLLOW, Society Entertainers,
TWO MAHERS, Irish Specialty Artists,
DENIS CARNEY, Eccentric Comedian and Dancer.
ERNEST WISEMAN, WARD LEAR, IRVING SAYDES,
TOM DAWSON, MAUD FANNING, KEARNS & ItOSSLYN
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
gIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING at 8 o’clock,
ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION,
Headed by MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN, in an Original
Powerful, Stirring Drama, entitled,
A SOLDIER AND A MAN .
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
MICHAEL JOSEPH, Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Gorgeous
Comic Spectacular and Operatic Xmas Pantomime,
SINBAP THE SAILOR.
Special Engagement—MlSS ELAINE RAVENSBURG, MISS
MAY POLLARD, FRED. CRAHAM, BERT BAILEY,
CHAS. BATES.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL. '
J ULIUS GRANT, Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS- of FLORODORA.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 21, Mr. WILLIAMSON’S
FAMOUS COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Charming Japanese Comic Opera,
THE GEISHA.
Many New Numbers, Novel Introductions, Up-to-
Date Travesties and Special Features.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
Wednesdays:
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of L’AIdLOH-.-
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 21,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON will Present the Celebrated
Young Tragedienne,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE,
in Shakespeare’s Immortal Love Tragedy,
ROMEO AND JULIET .
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL. I=*
'races' Court, Melbourne .
THE PREMIER PLEASURE GROUND OF
AUSTRALASIA.
ANADIAN WATER=CHUTE,
CAMEL=BACK TOBOGGAN,
IFE Ciiantant, Mysterious Myosa, Great Dragon
Tugaroo, Rifle Range, Japanese Tea House,
litary Band. Daily, 2.30 to 11 p.m.
A. L. BAIRD, Gen. Manager.
North-Western Associated, Kalgoorlie, is turn-
ing out better than most people expected. At 400 ft, the
lode has been driven on over 200 ft. and is payable, lhe
pay chute apparently becomes longer at depth ; in the
oxidised zone it *vas very short. Concern is largely run
by London guinea-pigs, who have been trying to boom
scrip of late. Tributors have, during recent years, done
well, but shareholders have had no return ; and it is
doubtful if they ever will, under present control.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) makes a very good showing for
its financial j r ear ended July 26. Co. realised a profit of
£82,500, and distributed £60,000 in divs. From next
month co. will increase its output from 5400 to 8500 tons,
and its profit should run into something like £lBO,OOO a
year or 150 per cent, on the capital issued. No fuither
expenditure on plant is anticipated, so all surplus revenue
can be devoted to* divs. Ore reserves are estimated at
365,000 tons, worth'OOs. This would mean 43 months’ sup-
ply, and over £5 a share profit. But owing to the variable-
ness of the lodes, a proper estimate of gold contents is
practically impossible ; the best that can be said is that
manager Moss generally allows a reasonable margin foi
contingencies. Co. is sure to pay ss. a share quarterly.
Total costs on mine are now about 255., including ‘develop-
ment, and, with increased plant running, should not
exceed that amount, even including London exes, and
depreciation. „
* * * *
Westralia Mt: Morgans is very dicky, and may
wholly close down any time. If it does it will be largely
the result of mismanagement. Mine, like Sons of Gwalia
in the early days, was over-run by cuffs and collars ; now
all the best ore in the available stopes has been depleted,
and the stuff remaining is not worth more than 7dwt.
Mine may come again later on when economy, is the rule.
It is absurd that a mine with easily treated ore should run
into 41s. to 4‘2s. expenses, when Kalgurli, even with
roasters, has reduced costs to 255. and under.
♦ , * * *
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.), has
had another farcical year, in 'spite of che gaudy predic-
tions of its sponsors. In the balance-sheet equipment
flo-ures at £20,000, and development at £36.000, although
it is very doubtful; if one ton of pay ore is in sight to
represent this alleged asset. Co. is said to have £10,500
in cash yet directors are issuing 100,000 new ss. shares at
par- if they can fin'd any to take them. Half this issue is
guaranteed by four of the biggest shareholders. Concern
has been going in one form or another for ten years, and
has been several times reconstructed.
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, showed a profit of £lOOO
during Dec., equivalent to ss. per ton, which is a very
small margin. Main shaft is deepening very slowly, pro-
bably to limit expenses and show a profit. Average grade
of ore is barely 7dwt, hut developments are fully two
years ahead of'mill Six levels are being worked, and ore
'is being drawn from each. Co. looks pretty hopeless, and
not likelv to pay .more than Is. a share per year on its
issued capital of ,£121,000. Lionel Robinson and Co.’s
year’s option at par on the remaining 9000 shares expired
on December 31, and, as shares never got within coo-ee of
par, it is safe to say the option was allowed to lapse.
Some big slugs continue to come from the head
of the Kanowna firewood tramline. Chris. O’Brien in one
day picked up two weighing 112 oz. and 1540 z. O’Brien
and his mates had decided to give their claim best after
six weeks’ fruitless work, and struck these big slugs on
the very day they intended to quit. The locality is
promising, but, like Kurnalpi and most of the rich alluvial
fields of W.A., the source of the gold seems impossible to
locate.
■* *
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie, is erecting an 050h.p.
en"-ine to drive the 100-head mill, as the old engine is over-
loaded The new engine should be the best on the fields,
and should help the output slightly. This will complete
the programme of surface equipment. On the basis of
17,000 tons a month, mine’s ore reserves are three years
ahead of mill, and are being kept well ahead. Profits in
sight equal fully £4 a share, and the mine, so far as one.
can judge, has a long life before it. It has the most
regular lodes on the field.
Princess Royal North, Dundas (W.A.), long
regarded as a wild cat, is, according to the management,
goin°* ’to prove it isn’t. The main shaft has been
sunlT3Bsft., and two levels opened up at 250 ft. and 380 ft.
At 250 ft. about 350 ft. of driving has been done before
locating pay ore. Recently a pay chute, or dab, has been
located, and is being followed by a winze, the width
rangin' l - from 10in.lt-> 4ft., the average value being .given
as 17djvt. At 3SOft. abbut 120 ft. of driving has been done
in poor ore, but Manager Creer predicts that he will cut
the continuation of the pay chute from the 250 ft. level by
driving south. There is nothing muph to get excited
about, so far, hut the Adelaide crowd, who control the
show are certain to make the most of the development in
the market.. .Co.’s Desirable lease hasn’t yet justified its
acquisition. When co. ordered its 10-head battery some
two years ago, show was declared a fraud, as there was
nothing to crush, and so it has proved.
* * * *
Total divs. payable in January by W.A. mines
tot up £216,250, against £189,536 last year : Great Fingall,
£93 750 ■ Associated Northern, £52,500 ; Ivanhoe, £50,000;
KaWirli, £15,000 ; and Golden Pole, £5OOO. Great Fingall
has°increased its distribution by £18,750,. while Asso-
ciated has fallen out, and Northern and Pole chipped in.
**. * *
Briseis (Tas.) is at last at work on the drift in
Briseis Hill, and just on the Brothers No. 1 boundary is
o-ettino- 61b. of black tin to the cub. yard. This is a long
way short of the 1 per cent. (331b5.) dirt predicted in the
flotation stages of the show, and it remains to be seen if
the Brothers No. 1 will help the situation. At present
the workings left by the old miners at the last-named
show are being uncovered. What everyone wants to find
out is just how far said workings extend. #
“ Gr H.” : A Pederal party lately inspected the
Heskett-Moore iron-making process, which claims to do
awav with pig-iron, Bessemerising, puddling, and all the
other ancient British processes. The ore is fed in at one
end of the furnace, and first-class malleable iron or steel,
according to the inventor, comes out at the other. Heskett
is an ironworker from Middleborough, U.K., and has been
laboring over this invention in M.L. for many years. He
claims to have produced excellent steel in one operation
from M.L. ironsand ; and, certainly, the tools shown were
of A 1 quality. I had a man striking with a sledge on a
Heskett-Moore cold chisel, and the implement rose a
curling strip of iron as thick as a rooster’s comb.
The furnace will only > treat finely-crushed ore,
and a dynamo extracts the gangue and impuri-
ties for a start. Then the ore is heated up
in a preliminary furnace, preparatory to reaching the
reducing chamber. The r.c. is a huge revolving steel
cylinder, with shelves running horizontally along its inner
side, and a lining of fire-brick over all. The semi-molten
iron’dust falls from one shelf to another inside this re-
volving machine, and injected fuel raises the temperature
very high. Below there is another cylinder, in which the
ore is finally turned into malleable iron or steel. Electric
indicators record the internal heat, and by raising or
lowering the temperature the operator can produce steel
or iron as he pleases. If this invention will work on a
lar°-e scale, then Australia will have a big thing in hand,
for” Yankees and Scotchmen have vainly spent fabulous
sums trying to find means of doing away with the crude
and costly pig-iron process. A company is running the
affair at present, and wants cash to enable it to establish
works on a larger scale. It is up to the Commonwealth,
which badly wants an iron and steel making industry of
its ojvn, to pay the closest attention to the Heskett-
Moore proposition.
* * * *
The Westralian Timber combine has started to
compete in N.S.W. by introducing karri and jarrah, to
fight local hardwoods. But, instead of welcoming trade,
as they generally do, the Telegraph and other papers are
scoffing at the hardihood of the Westralian people in
bringing this timber, dressed, to sell in Sydney. Compe-
tition to defeat the local manufacture of any finished pro-
duct they would welcome ; but to interfere with the
crude business of chopping down a tree makes the D.T.
very angry
The Bear-Monkey war has, up to date, advan-
taged the A 1 people more than any British firm,
the premiums paid to Lloyd’s underwriters having
run already into millions sterling. During November
more than 30 vessels were covered to Vladivostock
alone. The average tonnage was about 4000, and the
premiums paid, £lO,OOO. For that month no claims had
been made.
In scarcely two mines does the thermometer
Show the same increase when it is lowered down towards
Where Hades is supposed to be. At one Bendigo mine,
where fairly elaborate tests were made, the average
increase down to 3250 ft. was 1 degree Pahr. for every
135 ft. The increase was, curiously, more rapid near the
surface (1 degree in every 100 ft. for the first 500 ft.) than
at greater depths (1 degree for every 110 ft. near the
bottom). But at another Bendigo mine another scientist
reported an increase of 1 degree for every 77Jft. down to
3645 ft. In the Comstock lode (U.S.A.) 1 degree in every
30ft. was reported—the most awful figures on record.
At the Calumet and Hecla copper mines 1 degree in
227 ft. was reported. On the average figures, it seems
that the miner who works at 3500 ft. may expect to sweat
in an impure atmosphere 45 degrees hotter than the mean
at the surface (usually about 60 degrees). And yet men
crowd one another to do this work. Plenty of the
shareholders in whose mines this takes place are quite sure
that white men can’t work in the tropical industries of
the northern fields. White men have often been chal-
lenged by the northeners who love the Kanaka to go into
the cane-field and work beside the Kanaka, and see what
will happen. Why not turn the table, and ask the
northeners to see how their Kanaka would curl up if he
worked alongside the white miner at 3800 ft. or so V
“Mrs. Be van, wife of the woolly-headed Con-
gregational parson who loves the Chinaman, has
been ill, and her medical advisers ordered a long
sea-voyage. So the parson of the posas, nothing
loth, books immediate passages for himself and his
sick mate by an Orient boat. Mrs. Bevan will
probably have to wear a hat travelling, and that
she won’t like. The dear old lady drapes her
head and shoulders ordinarily in real laces, and
looks for all the world like an ‘ arrangement ’ by
Whistler, a symphony in black and silver. Her
only vanity is to look picturesque when doing
good, and as she does much good the vanity can
pass.
“Little bandbox Captain Collins is much
pleased and flustered over the cabled news of his
boy’s entrance pass (the exam, is a stiff one) to
' the ltoyal Military Academy in the Cold Country.
Several lads from these parts are this year in
training for that Woolwich pass, most of them
sons of officials who are committed to a gore and
glory career.
“ A stalwart and rather handsome young sister
of Florence Young is back of her at present in the
chorus. This is Gladys—the last of the Youngs
to be disposed of. By the way, the most stately
unit in the ‘Silk’ society team just now is Miss
Georgia Musgrove, and the most voice-gifted in
the chorus a little scrap of a Jewess (pretty at
that), Eileen Lyons.
“ The coming concert star (of Williamson’s im-
portation) found her platform name—Burkina —in
a curious way. A Marchesi student, she was out
at a Paris musicale with some chums, and sang at
the hostess’ bidding. A big critic of one of the
newspapers immediately asked her name. A
spiteful English miss said ‘ Porkina, identifying
the young Yank with the prosperous pork trade
of her country. By a misprint it appeared next
day as ‘ Parkina.’ The Yank heard how it all hap-
pened, and stuck to the name.
“By the next out-going German liner Miss
Rubenstein sets sail for London. The pretty
Viennese authority on feminine rose-bloom and
lily-radiance goes to Europe to garner extra know-
ledge for the vain sex from the most forward skin
specialists of the world.
“ A stray polo match or two helps the north
wind to scatter the dust at Kooyong and Moonee
Valley this January. So far none of the matches
has drawn a crowd. Half the sporting world is
mopping its moist brow at Macedon or Morning-
ton. Almost another half is in extremity as to
what part of the landscape is at the moment in
flames. Odd poloists have yet other cares :
Everard Browne, the Colac champion, is away
globe-trotting ; and Lachlan McKinnon is honey-
mooning.
“Melbourne took its unprovoked and most
abrupt heat wave last week in absurd fashion.
When the mercury shot up to 115° Melbourne got
real mad.' It bought a pine-apple and some
steamed peaches off the carts, and rushed home
in a rage. And it stayed home for four Sol-run-
riot days. Half the community thought'the other
half dead. No one ’phoned, no one wrote, no one
blackguarded Bent, no one lied or stole. .Only
the baby-murderer had energy left, some infant
bodies being found in the river with stone pen-
dants round their necks.
“ The tragic loss of cyclist champion Ellegaard’s
only child—a sunny-haired boy of two—was a
shock to many Melb. people who had noted the
couple’s worship of the youngster. The cyclist
and his pretty Swiss wife were extraordinarily
fond of the boy. I have seen them at the Grand,
as they played baby games with little Victor.
The champion was never too tired to amuse him.
Madame Ellegaard, while here, wore some gorgeous
Paris frocks, but nothing seemingly gave her more
delight than to see the child reef off the costliest
laces in a burst of good spirits.
“A certain very talented dame of Australian
fame was asked recently why she didn’t get a
divorce from her husband, from whom she lives
mostly apart. She closed one eye cautiously, and
whispered—‘l am keeping him for company in
my old age.’
“One of the bush-fire tragedies: A property
was completely destroyed, and the family left
without a piece of furniture or a change of hand-
kerchiefs. Included in the loss was a very beauti-
ful trousseau. The daughter of the house was to
have been married with due fuss this week.
“There’s one thing about the dames of wool-
wealth. Their conqern about the cattle and stock
is as real as their anxiety about the barns and
station residence. They are mostly good sports,
and their interest is with every kind of useful
quadruped. For the last fortnight lots of squatters
(back from Mountains and sea-side) hang about
town within call of the wires, and their wives are
not far off. No amusement counts when horses
and stock are in danger.
“ Mr. Williamson Wallace, the leisurely Govt,
director of the Grain and Wool Department, is
packing up to board a February liner, for England.
Private affairs require his attendance in the Big
Fog. There is a Mrs. Williamson Wallace, a
dark, strenuous dame, mainly noted for a beautiful
raven thatch just threatened with silver.
“ The death of Montagu Pym (a name Dickens
might have coined) leaves Exchange and Mel-
bourne Club circles less a notable figure. The
deceased beau had the heavy, ponderous swagger
style of an ex-Guardsman, and was one of the
politest and most punctilious business men in the
■city. He leaves a widow and a large farpily of
little Pyms.
“ Outside this State there is only one Nat in the
memory of man —Nat Levi. Consequently when
I wrote last week of Miss Thornley being the
daughter of the late Hon. Nat, the autocrat
who sets up the type took it upon himself to add
Levi —thinking it naturally followed. It didn’t.
Thornley was the missing word.
Yours Affectionately, Akenehi.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A Holy City waxworks show announced the addition of
William Bontield to its collection the day after his execu-
tion. Yet it is said that Adelaide is slow.
Nellie Stewart announces that now she never reads the
papers, and that she wonders whether she will be acting 1
when she is 60. Well, when any public personage starts
to not read the papers it is a sign that —er —maturity is not
far away.
“ Hamlet ” : Am glad old Howard Vernon, after many
hardships, is getting a decent show on a decent stage.
Saw him in the provinces a couple of years ago in Rip \ an
Winkle under his own banner. ’Twas a pathetic sight.
The house was almost empty, and the only decent
supporter he had was his son, Victor Prince. The female
parts were taken by inexperienced girls, who were borne
heavily down by them, but, who, nevertheless, battled
manfully—or rather womanfully—against the inevitable.
Vernon worked like a stone-cracker on piece work, and
when, he, as Rip, went into his long sleep, his voice could
he heard leading the chorus
Peter Dawson, the young South Australian basso, is
said to be doing well in ,London. During the Christmas
season he sang in four performances of the “ Messiah,”
twice in London and twice in Glasgow.
The manager of the “ Ben Greet Co. of English
Players” writes from ’Frisco that it contemplates a
descent upon Australia with the morality play “ Every-
man,” a miracle play, “The Star of Bethlehem, ’ and
Shaksperian comedies “ played in the Elizabethan man-
ner.”
“ 0.K.” : It's a bad look-out for Australia when one can
read on the front sheet of a metropolitan evening journal
(Melbourne Hkr.VLd) a telegram from Warrnambool
announcing that the A.N.A. competitions are still in pro-
gress, and that Mr. Somebody scored 70 points in the
comic song class for his rendering ef “ It Wasn’t Long
before I Shifted,” whilst Mr. Somebodyelse took second
prize for “ I Wouldn't Like to go Halves in That.” What,
a discouragement to humdrum industry is the “fame”
bestowed on A.N.A. competitors by newspaper para-
graphs 1 There’s a time coming when this country’s
public business will be wholly conducted by amateur
comic singers and reciters.
1 << q « fy, 0 a reco g n ition of the fine work of the chorus
under Leon Caron at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, should be
added a word of warning : Get your brass to phrase and
leave off that abominable tootling of a succession of notes
as if they had no possible relation to one another. This
want of phrasing is peculiar to brass bands and the brazen
section of most orchestras. The wood-wind players are
generally well educated on the point, which should form
one of the three R’s in music, but the ignorance of the
cornet and trombone tootlers is sublime. It is really time
conductors bestowed a little attention to these gentlemen
to drill into them what they should have learnt from their
first masters.
Foldesy, the’cellist, who leads J. 0. Williamson’s Con-
cert Co. "in Australia next month, is the son of a member
of the Buda Pesth Opera House orchestra. He displayed
much interest in music from the first, and his father
attempted to teach him the violin. But Foldesy
developed that tired feeling in an aggravated form. He
refused decidedly to stand up to practice, so his father
- bought him a chair and a ’cello, and thenceforward all
was peace. The hoy made wonderful progress under the
best Continental masters, and at seven made his first
appearance in public. From then until now his career
has been notable. Australia will hear him at the zenith
of his power.
“ Ku Klux ” : “ Jika’s ” par. re Prince’s Court is a trifle
inaccurate. I am behind the scenes at present, and
know.’ Takings for the first week were £B6O, not £5OO
a day, and so far that week is the record. Shares are
held'by (amongst others) Tom .Bent qind John Forrest.
The syndicate proposes to spend £6OOO on a new theatre
on the site of Fitzgerald’s circus when the lease of that
building expires, which will be in about ten months. At
the end of fifteen years the property all falls into the
hands of Melbourne City Council. But (it will be a huge
frost long before then.
“ F.E.P.W.” : In visiting a large musical competition re-
cently with a ladies’ choir I noticed that almost without
exception the sopranos were rapid and constant talkers.
Contraltos, on the contrary, are inclined to be soulful.
I will get my intended wife to sing. If she is not a con-
tralto I’m off her.
“ Hamlet the Mummer ” : Things have been pretty bad
for us mummers this winter, and Lord knows when they’re
going to brighten up. Fisher has just come home
(“home” is a small boarding-house in Fitzroy, Melb.),
and has thrown himself on his bed, and is talking in-a
savagely pessimistic strain. “ Have I got anything?
Nice question to ask ! I’ve finished with asking managers
for jobs—finished with ’em, by the holy Shake I have 1
They’ll come to me in future, not me to them ; I’ll see ’em
blanked first, my oath I will ! I went to Bullson to-day,
and said, ‘ Good day,-Bullson. I hear yer forming a com-
pany. Are yer full up?’ ‘Yes,’ he yelled, ‘full up to
the blessed neck,’and slammed the door in my face. Thfen
I went to Jingle’s, and found him upstairs in his office, -in
a raging temper, and when I asked, ‘Can yer give us a
start, sir?’ he snarled, ‘ Yes, to the top o’ the stairs. ;If
yer not gone in five seconds I’ll kick yer down!’ I
strolled down to the Royal, and watched the crowd
struggling for engagements in the panto. ; but I’d
had enough of pantos., so came away. Last year’s
job—remember it—elephant’s hind-legs. Damn hot work
that was for 15s. It’s a confounded indignity for an
actor to have to come down to pantomime—hanged if
I’ll do it again. Didn’t strike a soul in Bourke-street wjio
asked me if I had a mouth—people are either darned
mean, or very poor now ! When an actor’s in work and
got money people drown him in drink ; but when he’s down
on his luck no one inquires if he’s got a mouth that is
thirsty, and if he tells ’em voluntarily, they rush off to
keep an appointment, or feign deafness. As I couldn’t
get anyone to shout, I went into a pub. myself, and as I
entered I heard one barmaid say to another, ‘ Here’s
Fisher, put’em under the counter,’ and I saw the girl
grab a plate of pasties, and other eatable things and put
’em out of my reach, leaving me a tough bit o’ bullock" to
hack at. I don’t "know how people expect an actor-to
keep honest, I’m darned if I do,” muttered Fisher to him-
self, as he turned his face to the wall. “ Thank God, I’m
still honest,” he concluded, sinking into a noonday doze,
and dreaming he was on tour again, dodging landlords,
and drinking good beer.
Irving proposes to start his stage farewellings 'in
America next September. America has of recent years
adopted the old man for its own representative actor, and
he will spend a full seven months in touring from San
Francisco to New York. Returning to England he will
begin a final London season in April, 1906, and make his
last appearance on his theatrical jubilee night. Irving
played his first speaking part in 1856. He had not bden
long on the stage when Charles Dickens Spotted him as a
peculiarly powerful actor and predicted his future fame,
but the big hit in “ The Bells ” did n’t come until he was
a man of 35.
The biggest pest that touring concert companies have
to put up with in backblocks towns is the local musical
genius, his relatives and' his friends. Bill, the genius,
pays the lowest admission price, stands just inside the
do ir’Yay, and- makes loud observations about the in-
capacity of the performers, especially the one who occu-
pies that place on the programme that he thinks he
should have himself. Also, liis father comes along in a
maudlin condition of bad beer, and hangs outside the/shOw,
and explains to the doorkeepers and the assembled hood-
lums that the fellow singing inside isn’t a patch on his son
Bill. If remonstrated with, he offers to put up half-a-
sovereign to match Bill against the visitor in a vocal
catch-as-catch-can, and finally states that even Bill isn’t
essential for the purpose of downing the other, as he
could do it himself, even if he is drunk, Bill’s genius being
inherited from him. Forthwith he proceeds to give a for-
tissimo illustration of his singing capacity, interlarded
with hiccupy appeals to the onlookers to say whether
that doesn’t knock spots off the bloke on the platform.
Then he gets firmly and impolitely shoved away from
the front of the concert hall, but he finds his way round
to the back, and his voice can presently be heard blending
more or lesS with that of the principal soprano. If the
manager of the show really wants to get rid of the local
Bill’s old man, the only w;lv to do it is to take him
in hand at an early stage of the proceedings, and make
him so drunk that he can’t lie down without holding on.
“T.D.”: The Jews, who own most things in London
now, have a lien over the fine arts. It isn’t nearly so
necessary to have merit as it is to get a Jewish syndicate
to boom yau. Most people who haven’t heard violinist
Kubelik, for instance, are under the impression that he is
the nearest approach to a Paganini now living, this
impression having been created and assiduously fosteied
by the artful Hebraic crowd who have the handling of
that more or less soulful wielder of the bow. And Kubelik
draws big houses where men like Ysaye and Sarasate, who
are both magnificent artists still, are always dubious as to
their chances.
Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup. You may
just as well fill it with the purest spirit available.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest stimulant and
best tonic known for mind or body. If your back
aches it may be your kidneys— Wolfe’s Schnapps
cures kidney diseases.*
The Bulletin has received from the publishers,
Messrs. W. H. Sproull & Co., of Newcastle, Knaggs’
Almanac and Inter-State Ports Guide. For such as go
down to the sea in ships and come up from it again in safety,
the Almanac is a store of information which cannot he
overlooked. It contains sailing directions for Torres
Straits, charts of Newcastle Harbor, N.S.W. coastline,
showing lighthouses, etc. ; and is stuffed full of general
information of utility to shipping people. *
The Melb. Christian Students’ Union,
whatever that may be, is now holding a summer
school at Healesville, and, last week, six of the
most earnest workers in the blessed cause failed
to turn up to tea. After tactfully ascertaining
that no girl visitors were missing from the local
hotels, the conductors of the school gave the alarm
and Healesville was plunged into a state of excite-
ment sending out search parties. The people-who
ran the school did all they could to effect a rescue.
Nevertheless, they couldn’t help thinking what a
fine advertisement it would bo for Christian
Unionism generally if, in a couple of months or
so, six bodies were found in attitudes of prayer.
However, the efforts proved successful.


HOLIDAYS! “What shall we
do with our Boys ?” Clothe ’em !
Our lioya’ Suffolk Suits,
plain or buckle knickers, fancy
tweeds, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/ ; in all-
wool serge or sergerette, 16/9,
17/6, 21/-, 25/-; in black or blue
vicunas, 14/6, 17/6, 21/-
Onr Conway Saits, blue
serge, 11/9,12/9.14/6,17/6, 21/-;
fancy tweeds, 14/6, 17/6, 19/6,
22/6 ; in vicuna, blue and black,
11/3, 13/6, 17/6, 19/6; white or
brown drill, 6/9, h/6, 11/6, 14 6 ;
in fancy crash, 8/6, 10/6, 14/9
The Clothes that
Boys Want
IN the past few years great progress has been
made in the manufacture of Ready-to-wear
Clothing of ail kinds, but in no line has the advance
been more marked than in clothes for boys and
children. A few years ago most manufacturers
were of opinion that anything was good enough for
a boy to wear. Many of them even now hold to
that very erroneous view. As a matter of fact the
average boy is very particular about Ins clothes.
He has very definite ideas as to what he should
wear and this fact is taken into consideration by us,
who sell boys’clothes. The name of LINCOLN,
S rUAKT & CO. as makers of the Enterprise
Brand of boys’ clothing has been long before the
' public as the producers of the best boys clothes in
Australia Our suits are the kind boys want, and
what is equally important, they are the kind parents
want to buy for their boys. The boys want them
because they look well—that they wear as well as
they look is the point with the parents Another
point that is of importance to those who have to pay
1m boys’ clothes is price. The high quality of our
clothes does not mean high price. The most im-
proved facilities for manufacturing, and the large
scope of our business, combined with practical
management, enables us to put our product on the
market at less than usually charged for common-
place clothes. Our Enterprise Brand of boys
clothing will maintain its lead as the best for wear
and appearance in the State. . _ .
Can you imagine greater satisfaction than is
bound to result from the purchase of such boys,
clothes as these ? Quality for quality, “ Our Good
Clothes for Boys” cost less and wear better than any
other garment you can buy.
Why not have them ? ...
Bavs’ Alpaea Coats, in sailor shape, plain, grey
or stripe, 6/6, 8/6 ; Sac Coats, in fawn, grey, black
or dark stripes, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6
Bovs’ Summer Blouses, in galatea, white or
brown drill crash and holland, 2/6, 3/-, 3/9, 4/9
Norfolk or Suffolk Suits, in galatea brown
drill, fancy crash, and holland, 5/9, 7/6, 8,6, 9/6,
t X /s’ Eton Suits, English-made, short trousers,
in black corkscrew, 35/-, 38/6; in black vicuna
32/6, 37/6; with long trousers, 2/6 extra; black
coat and vest and grey tweed or sergeittte
trousers at 1/6 advance
Tunic Suits, in galatea, holland and drill, 3/11,
4/9, 5/6, 6/9, 8/6
%
Youths’ Sac Suit.
Youths’ Sac Suits, in all-wool
Ballarat Serges and Tweeds, 22/6, 25/;
in Knglish, Scotch, and Irish Tweeds,
18/6, 21/, 25/-, 30/; 35/-., in Vicuna
Coatings, sergerettes, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-.
Special half-sizes for very tall slender
youths.
Youths’ Trousers, in Knglish or
Colonial Tweeds, 5/9, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6;
in blue Serge or Setgerette, 7/9, 8/6,
10 6 ; in while Flannel or Stripe
Teams Cloth, 6/9, 8/9, 10/6; in white
Krill, 3/9, 5/6
Rugby Suit.
Rugby Suit, I>.B. Vest.
Boys’ Rugby Suits, 3 gar-
ments, with plain or strap and
buckle knickers, in English or
Scotch Tweeds, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-, 27/6 ;
in Ballarat Serge and Tweed, all
wool, indigo dye, 17/9, 21/-, 22/6;
with D.B. Vest, 2/6 extra
Highland
We maKe a Specialty
of Highland Costumes.
We are the ONLY FIRM IN AUSTRALASIA from whom you can purchase
Boys’ Youths’ and Maids’ Complete Outfits straight away and Ready for Wear,
and all are guaranteed correct Full Dress regulation pattern
We have supplied the Winning Costume at many Competitions.
The following Tartans are always in Stock in sizes as under, viz.
KOYAL STUART, BLACK WATCH, ARGYLE, AND GORDON.
Sizes 1,2, 3,4, 5,6, 7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12
Ages 3,4, 5,6, 7,8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14
Complete Costume, £3 15s. to £3 ss.
90
Costumes.
We stock the following Tartans, which can be made to order at short notice:
MACDONALD LESLIE ROB ROY McKENZIE
GORDON ARGYLE MURRAY GREEN SINCLAIR
ROYAL STUART ROBERTSON BLACK WATCH.
The Complete Costume as above consists of
Doublet and Vest, Kilt, Plaid, Dress Hose, Sporran, Brooch and Cap.
Price for Shoes on application.
Sporrans—Boys’, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/- Skean Dlius, 7/6, 12/6, 15/- to 45/-
„ Youths’, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/- Dirks, 15/-, 21/-, 35/- to 130/-
Men’s, 15/-, 19,6, 25/- to 45/- Brooches, 4/11, 7/6.10/6,12/6 to 25/
Hose, Boys’ and Youths’, 3/9, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6
~ Men’s, 15/-, 17/6
Boys’ Derwent Suits, in
blue or black Coating, 16/9,
18/6, 21/-, 22/6; in fancy Eng-
lish and Scotch Tweeds, 15/9,
17/6*21/-
Oar Boys* JVlan*o’war
Suits, in sizes 1 to 12, in
rough naval serge, 18/6, 21/-,
>2/6; in blue serge, 21/-, 22/6,
25/-; white drill, 10/6, 12/6,
-xtra detachable collar, lan-
yard and whistle
AT
LINCOLN
STUART
==6 CO.—
203 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE B.
Boys' Knickerbocker Suits,
o o
When Ordering Fill in this
Form and Send with Order.
Style Required
Age
Height
FOR COAX.
Inches
A to B for Length
C to D
C to E
C to F
With Arm f
in same position-?
as Illustration [
G round Chest
for Knickerbockers.
A to B for Side Seam
Cto D Inside Leg ...
E rmind Waist ...
B to D Bottoms


No. G 7048.
Solid Silver-Moiinted Black
Velvet Handkerchief Lag-.
m
U
No. G 7036.
Silver-Mounted Needle
Sachet, 8s 6cL
No. G 704?.
Solid Silver Hat Pin, 3s.
No. G 7049. Cut-Glass
a id Silver Tooth Powder
and Brush Stand, 2ls.
ţ
ť
Send your order for any of these new things,
and we will deliver them safely and by return
post - WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE .
No. G 7041.— Solid
Silver Hat Pin
Stand, 15s Cd.
m i ■
Silver-plated Fish Carvers in Morocco Case, 21/-, 25/-, 35/-, 37/6, 50/-
No. G4349.—Silver-plated Pin Tray,
Cupid Pattern, 3s.
No. G 4456. Silver-plated
Salt Cellar, 5/6; Pepper
4/6; Mustard, 7/6
Winner of “ Mail Order
Competition ”:
Mr. T. BORMAN,
C/O T. A. IRVINE, Esq.,
DINGO CREEK,
WiNCHAM.
No. G 7043.
Solid Silver Hat Pin,
2s 6d.
Write for
Our
Catalogue
No. G 5300.
18ot. Gold and Gem
Set Ring, £1 2s 6d.
G 7037.
Solid Silver Pen Wiper, 7s 6d.
Mil
No
G3Bss.—Novel
Cucumber Dish, with
Knife.
Fine Natural Color Ware in Silver-Plated Stand, £2 7s. 6d.
No. 07047.
Silver Manicure/ Set, in Case, 11/6.
No. G3402.—9ct. Gold & Greenstone Brooch
10/6
No. G5653.—501id Silver Hook & Lift, in Case, 10/6
No. G 5139.
10s 6d.
No. G 5174.
7s 6d.
A r o. G 4517.
11s Cd.
No. 0.5133.
X2s ed.
No. G 4469.
10s 6d.
Rea! Greenstone Pins,
New & Dainty Styles,
Gold Mounted —some
Set with Pearl 3.
No. G76s.—lvory and Silver-plated Long'
l'ickle Fork, 5s Gd.
No. F7B47.—Solid Silver Boot Button Hook, fit inches long-, 2s 6d.
No. G3o44.—Fin j Enamel and Gem
9ct. Gold Brooch, £1 15s.
::
11
No. G 3006. 9ct. Carved Gold and Greenstone
Broooh, 14s 6d.
$
No. C2OS7. Very Handsome Solid Silver
Cabinet Photo. Frame, 9s 6d.
ONE of the Uses to which
THE GRAMOPHONE may be put.
Nowhere is the Gramophone heard to greater advantage than when played across the
water on a still summer’s evening. All the tone and quality of the great Artistes’ voices come
gently swelling over the echoing water. There is no need to breathe the vitiated air of tne
crowded theatre or concert hall. On the river bank where there
is peace the Gramophone brings you the best music you could
hear from far-off cities.
There are people still, who, having heard some
old-fashioned and long out-of-date talking
machine, think that the Gramophone is
inartistic.
Play the Gramophone in the wrong key, or
play Records which are entirely out of sympathy
with the audience, and possibly even to-day
you will create a bad impression with the
Gramophone.
BUT—play the Gramophone properly as a
musician would, what is the result ? You delight
the musical critic and you entertain your friends.
Who shall criticise the Gramophone when
Edward Lloyd writes :
“I am content that future generations shall
judge my voice by the Gramophone.”
On receipt of a postcard we will send
Catalogues of Gramophones and Records
and the name and address of the nearest
dealer in our Gramophones. Gramophone
Records, and genuine Gramophone Needles,
sold only in metal boxes with our trade -
mark picture, “His Master’s Voice,” on
the lid.
-C ~-
-• 'a * -i>
’ :S".
•w*
33^
<S
a»
fcs
es
r^>
=s?3
<2
- VV
JEE
A A
<s*
--7
k.
/X
\i\l
W
4
V/ V v V.
/T-
-k
r"
>/
r
\V
&
Si
\"\
SSS.
SF
V
A
The GRAMOPHONE & TYPEWRITER LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
London, Berlin, Hanover, Paris, Vienna, St. Petersburg, Brussels, Amsterdam,
Milan, Lisbon, Calcutta, Barcelona, Capetown.
MARK
TRADE
This Trade Mark appears on every
Gramophone and Gramophone Record.
. AGENTS .
Victoria—
A. P. SYKES, 272 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.
Queensland-
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen-street, Brisbane.
New Zealand—
H. GENTLES & CO., 9 Strand Arcade, Auckland.
W. MACLEAN & CO., 37 Crawford-street, Dunedin
T. HOLTON, The Talkeries, Willis-street, Wellington.
Tasmania—
JOHN JOHNSTON, 129 Liverpool-street, Hobart.
A. W. MAYHEAD, Brisbane-street, Launceston.
South Australia—
MESSRS. S. MARSHALL & SONS, Rundle-street,
Adelaide.
Westralia
NICHOLSON & CO., Barrack-street, Perth.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.—OnIy Genuine GRAMO-
PHONE NEEDLES must be used for playing
Gramophone Records. No Genuine Gramoph(--.e
Needles are sold in Paper Packets. Such Needles
“His Master’s Voice.’’
spoil the
tone and
ruin the Re-
cord. Th e
Genuine
G--j-nonhone
Needk - are
sold ONLY
in a Metal
Box bearing'
our Trade
Mark Pic-
ture.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Saeurity of Froaha'd os*
Leasehold City or Su!j.iri:a:i
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Tiiojias Littlejohn, lisq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A. \V Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Shout,
Esq. ; Senator J. T. Walker ; James Borns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Winciicombe, Esq., M.L. A.
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Tf.ece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE S 7 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Wire Cloth Weavers.
xcr
ffl
111.
UTC
Makers of all Kinds ~
In Steel, Iron, of Wove Wire
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
WE HAKE A SPECIALITY OP
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LATEST MACHINERY .
w
We would be pleased to get In communication with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGINO AND CHEAP.
2
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factories: S33A George St., and Albion Lane.
P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
m
FISHING
Only the Highest Quality
Fishing Tackle stocked-
IF YOU WANT THE BEST,
SEND FOR OUR LISTS .
WE HAVE SUPPLIED ANGLERS
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
WE ARE PURELY AND SifviPLY
A FISHING TACKLE SHOP.
EASTWAY BROTHERS
409 & 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ŧ
i.
1
m
f
0
A Perfect Complexion Beautifier and Remover of Wrinkles
Dr. John Wilson Gibbs’
™ EONLY Eiectric Massage Roller
(Patented United States, Europe, Canada.)
*• A new beautifier which is warranted to produce a perfect complexion,
removing wrinkles and all facial blemishes. A very pretty addition to the toilet
table.” —Chicago Tribune.
“ This delicate Electric Beautifier removes all facial blemishes. It is the
only positive remover of wrinkles and crow’s-feet. It never fails to perform all
that is expected.”—Chicago Times-Hkrald.
“At one stroke the art of acquiring beauty has become simplified. Any woman may achieve beauty at
home and unaided. She will discharge the army of beautifiers she employs to exercise their arts upon her
and buy the Electric Massage Roller. The Roller will do the rest.” —N.Y. World.
An Electric Roller is all the term implies. (Magnetized attached to batteries are
not.) The invention of a physician and electrician known throughout America and Europe. A most perfect
complexion beautifier. Will remove wrinkles, “ crow’s-feet ” (premature or from age), and all facial blemishes
* POSITIVE. Whenever electricity is to be used for massaging’, it has no equal. No charging. Will last for
ever. No shock, sting or burn, as in old-style batteries, but pleasant and soothing in its action. Always ready
for use on ALL PARTS OP THE BODY The professional standing of the inventor, with the approval of
America and Europe, is a perfect guarantee. Price—Gold, 18/6 ; Silver, 15/6. Post Free toall States.
From
The American Hygienic Agency, Ltd*, Z*A*R
Camden Buildings,
** 418 George-st., Sydney.
1
Trade Marie (Registered !).
GENERAL DEBILITY
COMPLETE PROSTRATION,
BOIVSETHUMG LIKE A CURE.
Tha Case of Mrs. E, LAWES.
(By a Sydney Reporter.)
As the following case achieved un-
usual notoriety it is proper that the
main facts should ho put before the
public in complete form. We are in-
debted to Mrs. Emily Lawes, of Mo.
21 Redfern-street, Redfern, for the nar-
rative, which was begun in answer to
this statement by a reporter
“I have been informed that about
thirteen years ago you caused general
surprise "by shaking off a serious ill-
ness. Will you kindly give me the par-
ticulars V”
“ttilh pleasure,” acquiesced Mrs.
Lawes. “Yes; it's all thirteen years
since my jilness, for it was after my
first child was born that 1 sank into
such a pitifid state of weakne s that
for six weary weeks I could not put
my foot to the ground. The nurse who
attended me told mother she thought
1 was going into a decline, and you
phoiuld have seen me then. You would
have thought so, too. Talk about
feebleness ! it was awlul. I had a lit-
tle dog that came into my room one
night and jumped on the bed, and
would you believe that 1 didn't have
enough strength to push him olf V
“At the end of six weeks were j 7 ou
any better ?”
“If 1 was it was very slightly, I can
tell you, for 1 was just barely able to
stand, and that was all. The nurse
used to say : ‘For goodness sal-e don’t
go to the door because you look so
wretched/ and, my word, 1 felt
wretched. When 1 persisted in trying
to crawl for a few yards about the
house, it was impossible for me to
straighten myself up, and there I was
bent double like an old woman. But
it wasn’t every day that I could get
up, and l remember on one occasion a
relative coming into my bedroom,
and, after looking at me, rushing out.
saying : ‘Come in, Em’s dead !’ so
that wiH give you an idea of the
deathly appearance I bore. The truth
was, i alter wards learned, that she
could not notice me breathing, my re-
spiration was so feelde. and that, com-
bined with the fact that I was not cx-
I eeted to recover, gat e her t’ e idea
at once that I was dead. I was very
near it though, and I’m sire [ never
thought for a moment that I would
ever recover. But there is a Divine
Pi •evidence watching over all of is,
and He did not desert me in my hour
of need. I had got so fearfully thin
that it must have been painful to look
at me."
“Have you any idea what weight
you were then ?’
“I was greatly reduced, and as
ghastly a mortal as you could find in
a day's march. Well, I was going to
tell you about the blessings that were
afterwards showered upon me. By soma
means or other, when death was un-
doubtedly staring me in the face. I
got into touch with Clements Tonic, a
remedy that I had heard a good deal
about, and do you know that the dif-
ference which that medicine made in
me was something extraordinary ? Up
till then I had the greatest difficulty
in the w’orld in making myself eat.
Let the food be as nicely prepared,
and as light as it could possibly be, it
was all the same —ore or two mouth-
fuls, and 1 was done. But not so with
the pain, it was then that it started.
Mv chest felt chocked up with some-
thing, and 1 was onnr ssed almost to
suffocation. Hot flushes used to come
and go. the blood rushing to my head,
and making me feel quite giddv, whi’e
t.he pains in my head nearly distract-
ed me. Now, this is what I ID ed
about Clements Tonic. It was abso-
lutely the onlv medicine to do me good
in regard to those symptoms.”
“Ilovv many others had you given a
trial to ?”
“A great number. I took all sorts
of phvs cs, and not one of them ap-
pealed to my case at all. They were
absolutely worthless. But Clements
Tonic acted like a charm. I could ‘eel
it instilling fresh vigour into me as
distinctly as one feels the warm glow
of a welcome lire on a winter's night,
and shortly after commencing with it
1 began to feel hungry. This was sure-
ly something surprising. But w'hat
will you think when I tell you that
Clements Tonic so acted upon my in-
ternal organs that my food started to
digest again ? Why, thero are people
who saw me at the time, who heard
me say how much Clements Tonic had
done, and yet could scarcely behevo
their eyes or ears. But it was an in
disputable fact . that I was on the
mend, and to my dying day 1 shall
thank Clements Tonic for it. I u ed
to sleep very indifferently, and awoke
fet ling- nt n * the fresh r for the r si I h ul
got—in tr.ct, I was always so weary
and melancholy, and had such an in-
tense aching feeling right through my
body tin t 1 often felt that I would
like to lie down and die. I don’t look
as if I am much troubled with such
gruesome thoughts now, though, do 1?”
“■No ; you certainly look the pi ture
of health. Mis. Lawes.”
“That’s what everybody . tells me,
which shows what can happen in even
the most hopeless: cases so long as a
few bottles of Clements Tonic can be
got. (.goodness me, I am now over
twelve stone weight, and have had six
children since Clements Tonic snatched
me from the grave thirteen years ago,
and I can honestly tell you that froml
then till now I have not had one day’s
illness. That will show you whether
my cure was a complete one or not.
But I don’t think I’ve told you half I
went through yet. I didn’t refer to the
tunes that 1 had giddy seizures—well,
they were very numerous occasions
indeed ; and I didn’t say anything
about the horrible feeling of fulness in
the stomach which used to come on
when T had been g-iven some refresh-
ment. This was before rs : ng Clements
Tonic, you know. Afterwards. I was
not like the same woman, for I could
eat anything, and not oxper eire tie
least inconvenience, every pari'ch: of
pain arising from indigestion having
disappeared. There is anoth r thing!
would li'e to mention in order to
”oii’t out what ai S’d nditl all ro' nd
remedy Clements Tonic is. It is that
during my mv was ereat-
a~ or ted with palpitation, and. un-
der the innuerce of Clements Tonic
that trouble left me. Again, I was one
of the most nervous of women, and if
I happened to bo left in the house
alone 1 felt so timid that I dared not
move, while to be without a light was
always enough to make me fret terri-
bly. You've no idea the excessive mis-
ery my nervousness brought me, and
as I've been free from it all these
vears it’s time similar sufferers bad tho
1 enelit of mv experience.”
“So I’ll print it ?”
“Certainly : in any way you please
you may publish it.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION,
r, EMILY LA WES, of No 21 Red-
fern-street, Redfern, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefullv read the annexed document, consist-
ing: of four folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to four, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of ray illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements —which I (rive voluntarily,
without receiving: any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing: the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
'Oafrt
.Subscribed and declared
third day of September,
hundred and four, before
FRED.
at Redfern this
one thousand nine
me,
FLOWERY, J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o r>E3TY COIVEJPJBTI'riOIXr.
WINES “• “ °*■' SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, *O.
lent Brewery, SYDNEY.
CITIZENS’ LIFE
Assurance
Co., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Citizens’ Buildings, Moore and Castiereagh Streets, Sydney.
FUNDS £1,150,000*
HAS MONEY TO LEND
on security of Freehold City or Suburban Properties,
good Dairy Farms, Agricultural and Grazing Lands
(Freehold orC. P. and C.L.)or Government Stock of
any of the Australian States or New Zealand, at Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
LOANS ARRANGED for a. fixed term, or made repayable by instalments,
without notice or payment of any finer


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams
CONSULTATIONS
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
LAUNCESTON CUP, Launceston, Tas., January 25, 1905 ...
NEWMARKET HANDICAP, Flemington, Vic., March 4, 1905
AUSTRALIAN CUP, Flemington, Vic., March 7, 1905
DONCASTER HANDICAP, Randwick, N.S.W., April 22, 1905
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 10 4 each,
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will he 2d. on each
ss> Ticket, and 4(/. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may bo forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3cl. per Parcel.
$
THE
& REFINING GO. of
Works: DAPTO, LAKE ILLAWARRA 06 Miles from Sydney).
1901, Limited.
' "W P"V " ■***■■ , V~V
1 »
Highest Price paid for Gold, Silver, Lead, and Copper Ores,
Prompt Cash Settlement on Agreement of Assay.
For all information regarding Fates,
Cyanide, Slags, and Jewellers’ Sweep, etc.
Apply to the Manager, Head Office, Oapto;
or, A. E. RUDDER & CO., 40 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, Forwarding Agents.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known t# exist where “ Coughs'’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
3BJWAR.E OIF" COUGHS 2
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Terrible couth caused by measles.
Improved immediately and quickly cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearn e. Hear Sir, —Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough, caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it ha< due for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
Two children in one family cured two years
ago by Haarne’s Bronchitis Cure.
In the best of health new.
Have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —It is with pleasure I can say that my two
children, whom you treated two years ago with your
medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of health.
They have never had a sign of the asthma since. I always
keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Curt in the
house now.
(Mrs.)L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer 73 years of age.
Thoroughly cured by two bottles of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Eelief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
rour Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. I a-.ii
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally.—Yours most respectfully,
6 THOMAS It. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
Dry hacking cough for twelve months.
Relieved at once and completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Other treatment took no effect.
Mr. W. G. HEARNE.
Dear Sir,—For twelve months er more I had a dry,
hacking’ cough on my chest, that used to trouble me
terribly at night time. I was told it was a touch of Bron-
chitis. I tried different sorts of medicine, which t-aok no
effect, so I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which I have much
pleasure in informing you relieved me at once. It has
completely cured my cough. lam sure anyone can
depend on your medicine for a thorough and immediate
cure.—l remain, truly,
DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA and BRONCHITIS.
Ten years suffering with a terrible cough,
and wasting away.
Completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough, and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer for years cured by one bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Ho other treatment did any good.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had
a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. 1 tried every cough remedy I could get, but not
one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried
one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never
coughed since she finished it. lam glad to say the effect
has been wonderful. Yours etc.,
J. BAT,SEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
BRONCHIAL CATARRH,
An obstinate case cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
After other treatment had failed.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have a son, 9 years of age,
who for two years suffered from Chronic Bronchial
Catarrh. I could never leave him away from me a night
on any consideration. Everybody just dreaded his being
left to their care. The least dampness of foot, cool sea
breeze after a hot day, or cold blowing wind, would con-
line him to the house for days. I had medical advice,
and used different patent medicines, but without success,
until I got one small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure,
which has freed him completely from the Catarrh. Since
then he has been out in damp weather to school, and goes
about like any other child ; in fact, he seems to have lost
a big burden, and is quite well. Will you please accept
my gratitude.—Believe me, yours gratefully,
AMY H. PARTRIDGE,
\ Kelso Heights, Singleton, N.S.W.
■ V-
BRONCHITIS.
A South Australian storekeeper testifies
V; to the Efficacy of Hearne’s
Jgt Bronchitis Cure.
Jf A sufferer 70 years old cured by it.
"Well and hearty now.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am a storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman
is ©visr 70 years of age, an old bushrnan who has been in
these paits for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the medi-
cine from aae. He is at my place now, and he says that
this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis for a
msimber of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for
your valu&We Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
3M9W. You aare quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from JBronchitis.—Yours truly,
, M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
CONSUMPTION-
Too ill to leave his bed.
A complete cure.
Mr. W. G. flearne.
Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be con-
sumption, and various other treatments had been tried,
but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard of
your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the
medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my bed,
but I commenced taking it at once, and gradually im-
proved; I am glad to say that the two lots of medicine
you sent have effected a complete cure, for which accept
my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London;
Distressing, suffocating, dry cough for twelve
years.
Entirely removed by five doses of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
No other treatment could even ease it.
Sir,—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be re-
moved or even eased by any remedy, doctors’ prescrip-
tions and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and dif-
ficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A five years’ case cured by one small bottle
of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
—I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA.
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
»RAMcn depot Qffi ce . § ]?i rs t p>i oor) (j re er’s Chamb«!ts, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


The bleach of clothes
washed with
SUNLIGHT SOAP
recommends Sunlight Soap.
KNIVES AND FORKS CLEANED WITH
MONKEY BRAND
RECOMMEND MONKEY BRAND.
Letters Reporting Cures of Cases of
Bladder Disease.
From Mr. Alex. Dickson, 90 East Belt, Christchurch, N.Z., 21st February, 1904.
“ During recent years I have been troubled with urinary difficulties. My bladder seemed sore and
irritated, and my physician said I had catarrh of the bladder, which was diffieul>s£o overcome on
account of my advanced years. Warner’s Safe Cure was recommended to me, and i\ook frequent
doses, hardly daring to believe that I should be helped, but, to my relief, I found that the irritation
gradually subsided, the urinary difficulty passed away, and my general condition improved, I have
enjoyed splendid health for the past six months, and really feel younger than I did some years ago.
thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure.
From Oapt. W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg, Vic., 6th April 1903.
“ It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of the great benefit I have derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. Jn the early part of last January I had a chill, which turned to a very severe
attack of Inflammation of the Bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examining me, each said
it was a disease common to men of my age (I am over 60), and that I could only get relief by using an
instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I positively refused to let either of them use an
instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I conscientiously and
truthfully declare that before finishing the first bottle I got absolute relief and began to feel better
in every respect. I have continued to take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully improved.
I am in as good health now as I can ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to Warner’s
Safe Cure. I carefully observed the diet directions given in your book. I most strongly recom-
mend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved
invaluable. - ’
Writing on the 7th March, 1904, Capt. Stuart says—“l have received your letter of sth inst.»
making inquiry as to whether I can now confirm the statements made in my letter to you of 6th
April last year, and am very pleased indeed to be able to advise you that I have had no symptom of
any return of bladder trouble, and my general health is so satisfactory that I am constantly being con-
gratulated on my renewed vigor by all my friends. I can only add that I cannot be too grateful, as
I am sure that I owe my health to Warner’s Safe Cure. The effect of the medicine in my case has
been most remarkable.”
From Mrs. Elizabeth Roben, “Brighton,” French Street, Kogarah, Sydney, N.S.W.,
25th September, 1903.
“ About eight years ago I was attacked by great pain at the stomach and severe vomiting. I took
a bottle of Warner's Safe Cure, but it did me no good. I then went to the hospital and underwent an
operation, but was not cured. The pain I suffered was terrible. The medicine the doctors pre-
scribed gave me no relief. I was brought home and treated by another medical man, but still obtained
no relief. He at last said he could do no more for me, and my friends were sent for. My sister,
having great faith in Warner’s Safe Cure, brought a bottle with her, and gave me a tablespoonful
every quarter of an hour from eleven o’clock till one, and the relief from pain was wonderful. I con-
tinued to take Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills until I was restored to Health.”
From Mr. Joel Weatherby Bolton, King Ed ward-street, North East Valley, Dunedin, N.Z., 10th
February, 1904.
*• I was in good health until about four years ago, when I noticed that my back became lame and
sore. The pains kept increasing with severe twitches and slow exhaustive aches, and I found that
I had inflammation of the bladder. I tried many remedies without getting better, but finally
decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and, within a few days, to my great joy, found relief. I con-
tinued to take the medicine, and at the end of three months was restored to perfect health. lam only
too pleased to endorse the value of Warner s Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Joseph Agnew, Fairfield, N.S.W., 18th September, 1903.
“ Some five years ago I was attacked by great pains in the groin, which at times were so bad that
I almost cried with agony. I was treated by doctors, but found no relief. A friend advised me to
take Warner’s Safe Cure, which I did, and after taking two bottles I was quite cured.”
From Mr. Christian Lawson, Cook-street, Auckland, N.Z., 17th March, 1904.
“ I suffered from inflammation of the bladder for thirteen months, and only those who similarly
suffer know anything about the agony I endured. It is one of the most painful diseases a person can
suffer from, and one of the hardest to get rid of. Had it not been for Warner’s Safe Cure, I feel that
I should be in my grave to-day, but, thanks to its wonderful efficacy, I am yi the best of health
instead. I took fourteen bottles, and felt my health and strength gradually return. I believe my
restoration is permanent, as I byve not had the slightest pain for over three months.”
Uric Acid. —The presence of this acid in the blood is the cause of people suffering from Rheu-
matism, Gout, Neuralgia, Bachaehe, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, and Bladder Troubles. The accumu-
lation of uric acid in the blood is a certain indication that the kidneys are acting inefficiently.
Warner’s Safe Cure acts specifically upon the kidneys, and invariably restores those vital organs to
health and activity, when all suffering due to uric poisoning ceases. So potent is Warner’s Safe Curo
that it will even cure Bright’s Disease of the kidneys.
A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys is to put some of the urine, passed tha
first thing in the morning, into a bottle or covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is
then cloudy, or if it contains a sediment like briekdust, or if particles float about in it, or it is of an!
unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time should be lost in commencing to taka'
Warner’s Safe Cure.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS'* says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity ”
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
rote the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par*
of the Label.
A Sick Call.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY step inside the bedroom where I he in
disrepair,
Their looks are a delightful blend of cheer-
fulness and care ;
Slouch hats and silk, straw hats and caps, are
softly laid aside,
And then they tell the lies about the men who
never died.
‘God bless your heart,” says William 8., why
there is Peter Young,
He’s lived for forty years upon the fraction of a
lung.
I met him just the other day and said How do
you stand ? ’
‘l’m blowing the big trump,’ says he, ‘in the
Salvation band.”
“That’s nothing, sir,’’ says Frederick, with cir-
cumstantial air,
“There’s Simmons —all the doctors gave up Sim-
mons in despair;
He had no lungs at all, they said —I’ll give you
names and dates ;
He’s now the finest diver you can find in Torres
Straits.”
All beautiful, translucent lies, and beautifully
meant—
Your friends assume that, being ill, you must be
innocent.
They want to cheer your spirits up and fill your
mind with mirth —
The Bohemian bedside-manner is the queerest
thing on earth.
They sit in semi-circle very solemn by my bed,
And look at me respectfully, although I am not
dead ;
Then quietly they fill their pipes—a freedom
understood —
Bill’s pipe she is a meerschaum, but the rest smoke
cherrywood.
“What ails you, V.J.D.,” they say, “that you
should look so pale ?
The world is full of beauty still, and poetry and
ale !
Your pipe is filled, your glass is filled, we drink
long life to you—
And why, then, should you leave us, as you seem
to wish to do ? ”
In vain I shake my weary head and turn round to
the wall,
They will not let me die like that, or let me die at
all.
They clap a pipe into my mouth, a glass into my
hand—
The Bohemian bedside-manner takes some time to
understand.
I smoke the pipe, I drain the glass, I gasp and
choke for breath;
But five strong men surround me and they have
no fear of death.
I sleep for seven moments, then I wake up with a
start
And hear Sylvester holding forth on Poetry and
Art.
“We get no darned encouragement. Our friend
here on his bed
Is dying, simply dying ” “ Curse the blanky
world ! ” says Fred.
“ Now what’s the reason, gentlemen, why Govern-
ment won’t give
A paltry thousand pounds a year to him that he
may live ? ”
Then William, with the waving curl upon his fore-
head high,
Springs up and says “ That question needs a swift
and straight reply.
What are these blanky statesmen, at whom every-
body laughs ?
Obituary notices and played-out epitaphs ! ”
Says William : “Fred and Tim and Bert, you’ll
have a sweet surprise.
You see the danger-signal that is blazing in my
eyes?
Before my dear old dying friend I would commit
no crime,
But when I was at school I was the terror of my
time.”
They laughed and wrestled round the room, those
gleeful friends of mine,
And then they sang me Luther’s song of women
and of wine :
“ Cheer up ! cheer up ! you will not die,” my kind
Bohemians cried,
They meant to do their best for me ; —at 10 p.m
I died.
N.s.w.
Y.J.D.
A M’martre.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOR the first half-mile north of the Seine
the surface of Paris rises almost imper-
ceptibly. Then you pass the Opera House
and the Madeleine, and find a hill that would
make a cyclist swear. Your first rest is at a big
broad boulevard that extends along the hillside
like a terrace. This is the Boulevard de Clichy,
the centre of M’martre, the suburb of Paris that
exists mainly for the purpose of upsetting all the
conventions and shocking visitors from respectable
England who go there on purpose to be shocked.
Here, in the centre of the Boulevard de Clichy
stands the world-renowned Moulin Rouge, with
only its externals to perpetuate the memory of the
Moulin Rouge that gladdened the Paris of the
Third Napoleon. The stranger who is looking
for shocks will pass the Moulin Rouge of to-day.
He will not turn to the west, where the end of the
boulevard is blocked by a big octagonal building—
Bostock’s Hippodrome, in which the nightly cir-
cus entertainment ends by the wild beasts being
turned into the arena just as they were in the
Coliseum at Rome ; or in it being filled with water
for a mimic naval engagement. The wise man
will turn to the east. Here lie La Cigale and
half-a-dozen minor music halls, where the dip.
criminating visitor may be shocked to precisely
the extent he desires. On both sides of the broad
boulevard shine the glittering lights of the eccen-
tric cabarets, carefully prepared to outrage all the
conventions. Above all, on the crest of the high
acropolis that overlooks Paris, the basilica of
Montmartre shines snow-white in the moonlight.
The music-halls and the dance-halls and the
cabarets are entered from the street level. The
basilica is reached only by a hard and a laborious
ascent of a very steep hill and a climb of about
500 steps. What an allegory seems to be con-
tained in this.
Opposite the Moulin Rouge, and facing the
distant basilica with shameless defiance, glares the
red demon’s face that marks the entrance to the
Cabaret of Hell and the blasphemous caricatures
of church windows in the Cabaret of Heaven next
door. Past these there is a street as steep as the
streets of Outtrim or Walhalla. In the middle of
a row of shops is a brilliant building with a power,
fully-drawn poster of a guillotine before it. People
are crowding through the doorway. The show is
the “ Mort de Jacques” ; and, as it costs only 25
centimes to see Jacques die, it is ever popular.
There is the inevitable little room with a pro.
scenium at one end. Everybody stands, but the
floor has a dip that provides a good view for all.
The curtain rises, and the guillotine stands black
and sinister against the sky, with a view of Paris
and the towers of Notre Dame on the back cloth.
There is weird music, and Monsieur de Paris and
his two assistants enter, clad in their belltoppers,
frock-coats and tricolor belts. They bring a
basket to the front of the guillotine. Monsieurde
Paris raises the knife and drops it a couple of
times to make sure that all is in order. They re-
tire, and from behind the scenes comes the
murmur of a crowd waiting for blood. 1 hey re-
appear with Jacques, and an attendant print
recites the prayer for the dead. Jacques is a
pallid youth, with his shirt turned down to expose
a scrawny neck. Also he is a born actor. As I e
catches sight of the guillotine, he shivers in such
a way that the audience says “ Oo ! ” and you ha\ e
a sensation of ice-cold water trickling down your
back. He stares at the instrument of death. His
eyes are rivetted to it, and the muscles of his face
work in horrible contortions.
Monsieur de Paris takes his stand by the side of
the guillotine, while his assistants manacle the
wrists and ankles of the trembling Jacques to a
long board. The signal is given. The board is
lowered, and Jacques’s head is seen projecting
beyond the line of the guillotine as he mutters his
final words after the priest. The wooden flap is
*hut down, and Monsieur de Paris pulls the string.
An awful cry, shooting from the mouth of the
criminal, is cut short by the descending blade, and
the head of Jacques topples into the basket with
a spurt of blood. The audience applauds wildly,
and, horrible though the show may be, the illusion s
carried out so perfectly that anybody would be
inclined to say that a mistake had been made and
the youth really beheaded. And when the curtain
falls and we file out, to find .1 acques at the doer
with the everlasting tambourine held out for some-
thing for himself, we are inclined to wish that he
had been.
Further up the hill is the Moulin Galette, where
all M’martre and its girl go to dance. This is the
headquarters of the Apaches of Paris, who cor-
respond with the pushes of our own land. And
the superficial resemblance of the Paris Apache to
the Australian larrikin is remarkable. It is far
more marked than the resemblance of the London
Hooligan. The Apache’s face is brown instead of
pasty-white. His physique is superior, and he
has a well-fed, outdoor sort of look that it is im-
possible to find among the Hooligans. He does
not take the dance so seriously as his Australian
brother. In M’martre, the dance is a means of
am use then t, not. a sacred and solemn function.
Yet it is more decorous than the larrikin hop.
There is no M.C. to give orders with a wealth of
questionable imagery. There is no drunkenness
—at least, not in the dance hall itself ; the stalwai t
officials patrolling the promenade take got d
care of that. There is seldom any violence,
but when it does appear, I am told, it is violence
of a type happily unknown in Australia. Fights
are conducted “all in,” and the appeal to the
k.iife is almost invariable. They dance the
waltz, the quadrille, the lancers, and all the
dances that we know, except the Alberts,
and it is only in “le cakewalk” that .the
ladies make any attempt to emulate the high-
kicking of the ballet. The Apache is a genial,
irresponsible-looking youth, generally with a small
black moustache and a fringe. There is nothing
weedy about him. He is sturdy and well knit
and he wears a soft felt hat or a cloth' ckp and good
clothes, with the trouser '‘cut into the
bell-bottoms that indicate the larrikin instinct all
the world over. Probably if we could mount the
time-machine and go back to a mediaeval combat
between the ’prentices and clubs, we would find
the tights of the former were cut saucy in some
ingenious way. The girls might be some of our
own, ready for Saturday night in Oxford-street,
Sydney, or Smith-street, Melbourne, save for the
fact that they are not so pretty as our Australian
factory hands. They have the same coquettish
air, the same wealth of hair hanging down their
backs, and the same appreciation of the interest
of the stranger. ,
We return to the Boulevard and the Cabaret de
Quatr’z Arts, perplexingly pronounced as if it had
something to do with cats. We pass several
cabarets. The Criminal Cabaret, where you are
admitted through a barred gate to sit in a chain-
ber adorned with relics of past crimes, while
waiters attired as convicts serve the drinks, and
M’martre poets recite original verses glorifying
the author of the latest crime; the Cabaret of the
Conservatorium, in which the best topical songs of
the day are said to be given nightly ; the Cabaret
of the Red Ass, the Cabaret of the Dead Rat,
and outside the charmed circle of M’martre itself,
the Cabaret of the Black Cat, founded originally
by one of Paris’s famous poets, and, for a time,
the centre of artistic and literary life.. But the
Black Cat has degenerated, and to-day it is one of
those places which guides tell you about m
mysterious whispers.
We close the night appropriately with the
Cabaret of Death—death as exemplified at the
Cabaret du Neant—the Cabaret of Annihilation.
Here was a shop-front decked out with black and
purple trappings, and behind it a darkened room
filled with coffins placed on trestles. There were
seats by the side of the coffins, and when we give
our orders the waiter, attired as an undertaker s
assistant, places them silently before us on the
coffin lid. The light becomes gradually brighter,
and we see on the walls large pictures of men and
women in the perfection of youth and health.
Suddenly the lights fall, and, in place of flesh and
muscle, the figures turn to grisiy skeletons.
The head-undertaker whisjjers to us that it is
time to enter the Chamber of death. We form a
melancholy procession down a dark corridor, and
reach a small black room with an upright coffin
standing under its one light. A girl enters in the
costume of a pantomime principal boy—a young
and pretty girl, who gives each individual male visi-
tor a smile all to himself, and takes her stand in
the coffin. A minute passes, and the coffin con-
tains only a skeleton. Another passes, and the
girl is again before us, with brighter smiles than
ever and a half skull extended under our nosea
for contributions.
The clock in a bioscope parlor, which the
Sydney detectives would have closed in five
seconds, points to five minutes to 2, and 2 o’clock
is the hour when all good M’martrois go home to
bed. Even the eccentric cafes of the Boulevard
de Clichy close then. Groups are strolling down
the slopes towards central Paris, and cab loads of
dainty Parisiennes in evening dress flash past us,
all the cabs with pneumatic tyres. The lights fade
from the boulevard, the red arms of the Moulin
Rouge have long been stationary ; the streets are
empty save for the gendarmes working their beats,
and M’martre sleeps the profound sleep born of the
clear conscience.
M‘G.


ABE TOUR
YSILL?
Are you suffering from any such serious sign as Backache, Gravel, Dizziness,
Swollen Ankles, Puffy Eyes, Uric Acid, Irregular
Heart, Sciatica or Rheumatic Pains.
A few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will make a wonderful
improvement in you, and a course of the medicine will cure you to S PAY
cured. Por Doan’s Pills reach and heal the kidneys themselves —help them
to remove from the body all the liquid and crystallised impurities that poison
the blood, irritate the nerves, and cause such diseases as rheumatism, dropsy
(swelling of the limbs), Bright’s disease, gall-stones, urinary disorders, gravel,
headache, dizziness, sleeplessness, languor, sallow skin, weak, fluttering heart,
diabetes, &c. The best proof of this is the testimony of friends and neignbors
—Sydney people.
TWO LASTING SYDNEY CItRES.
| 12 MONTHS CURED. |
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, this
city, says:—“About thirteen years ago I con-
tracted a cold which flew to the small of my back
and seemed to affect my kidneys. My back was
real lame, and when cold weather set in the pain
used to be dreadful. When I worked the sewing-
machine my back ached more than ever, and I
could never stay at it for any length of time.
Having a large family to sew for made it very hard
for me. I heard about Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and obtained a supply. Relief came almost
immediately I started to use them, and now my
cure is pe.rfect. lam pleased to recommend these
pills to all kidney sufferers.”
The above statement was made some time ago.
Mrs. Helmka now writes :—“Although it is a
year or more ago since I was cured by Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, I still have the same good
opinion of this medicine. It is a splendid remedy
for weak and aching backs, and disordered kid-
neys. I’ve had no return of my trouble. I have
recommended these pills to many people and shall
always do so.”
4 years cured.
Mr. John Allen, 42 Palmer-street, Woolloo-
mooloo, this city, says : —“My kidneys had been
out of order for two years, and my back ached all
that time. The pains were located right in the
small of my back, and sometimes travelled up
between the shoulders. Various remedies were
recommended to me, which I tried, but I got no
relief until I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
These pills acted directly on the kidneys without
affecting the bowels, therefore causing no weak-
ness or interference with my work. They have
effected a complete cure in my case, and I have
no hesitation in recommending them to other
sufferers.”
Four years later Mrs. Allen states : —“ My hus-
band has never had any trouble with his kidneys
since he used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills about
four years ago. The pills made an absolute cure
in his case. I also know of other cases where
marked benefits have resulted from the use of the
same remedy.”
m
1
O
n
KIDNEY PILLS
so/d by a// Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price
by the FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO., 76 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOANS.
The Destroyer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cl he raced away down the sunset track,
Beyond the mines and the boom ;
The spray flashed red on her turtle back
To the wlifrr of her engine room.
Her funnels spouted their smoke-plumes black—
She looked the spirit of doom.
Along her sides the wavelets hissed.
As she opened out her speed
They fell astern to snarl and twist,
And writhe in her wake and bleed.
Hers was a force no seas resist,
And she gave them little heed.
Away in the west the red sun sank
To drown in the heaving flood.;
And fast—with never a noisy crank
Or piston rod a-tliud,
Her stern set low in the high wave-bank—
She swam on a sea of blood.
Into the night, when the sun had gone,
The fast Destroyer flew,
And never a side-light gleamed or shone,
As the pale stars grew and grew.
What errand grim did she speed upon ?
Only her captain knew.
Through the sweeping seas she clove a track
Into the blinding gloom—
Stumpy-tunnelled, sinister, black—
She was the Spirit of Doom.
And the keen spray hailed on her turtle-back,
To the throb of her engine-room.
* * * *
Back to our forts the Destroyer crept,
As the dawn rushed in aflame;
Her stacks were blistered, her decks sea-swept,
But she licked her lips as she came;
And she took her place, where her comrades slept.
Like a hound that had killed its game.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.
“Captains of Enterprise.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LONDON is the town of the Damned-By-
Waiting—the birthplace of the Hope
Deferred. Never was there before such
a city, and such a people of vast pretension and
little act. You come to London with a scheme,
and in proportion to the soundness of it, so is
the difficulty of success. It is not only the
fact that here, as everywhere, people are
sheep, and will give millions for camel-
dung during a boom as cheerfully as they will
refuse to buy sovereigns for nineteen shillings
during a slump ; the great trouble is, that at every
turn somebody springs up and demands reward
for absolutely no service. Failing the indirect
bribe, these blackmailers inva: iably do their best
to spoil business —so that it is only the man who
bribes most who can get easily through with his
business.
The commercial morality of the newspapers,
especially of the financial press, is shocking to the
Australian, even though he be used to the methods,
of the Australian dailies at a general election.
One of the financial papers, finding the pros-
pectus of a friend’s scheme (when it had really
been underwritten, not by the Rothschilds, but
by Australasian traders), brought to the brokers
the proof of a badly-written, ill-informed article,
which they stated they would publish if the
brokers did not pay fifty guineas. They were told
to “go to and they went back to their
office. Next day the article appeared, but it did
no harm.
I have interviewed many magnates in palatial
offices, and have withered under their scorn when
they spoke of Australian mines ; and went away
believing that now my country was irretrievably*
damned. I did not then know the true inward-
ness of these frauds—that their office furniture
was all their capital, that they knew we were in
the middle of a very able-bodied and long-living
slump, and that, knowing they could do nothing,
they talked contemptuously of Australian mining
to the man with an Australian mine, and coldly
of Africa to the man with a West African con-
cession.
Sometimes they would not touch Australian
ventures on account of Whitaker Wright’s failure ;
sometimes they objected to the drought; oftener
they showed that profitable mining was impossible
in the Commonwealth by reason of all the gold in
the lodes having been seized by the Labor party.
The Labor party was always the trump-card of
these penniless adventurers. Any dreary Londoner
who had heard of Socialism and mixed its meaning
with Anarchy, is ready to prophesy the down-
full of Australia, owing to the Labor party, and
the London correspondent of the Argus hunts up
these gentlemen at a coffee-stall, and cables the
terrible statement at great expense.
In the “Fleapit,” on one morning in October, I
saw a city man—“city” in his clothes, anyway —
lunching frugally on a sausage and ale. His frock
coat and tall hat had at one time been beautiful;
now they testified to the poor devil’s
bility. Yet he kept to the habits of his days of
comfort; still talked largely ; still shot at inter-
vals four inches of cuff, of certain age and uncer-
tain cleanliness. On his face-value, he had not a
pound in the world ; later, to test it, I asked him
to drink, and, although I was a stranger, he
accepted with badly concealed eagerness.
Somebody mentioned Australia, and the shabby
city man shot his cuffs again, and said :
“ Ah ! ah ! Australia is in a very bad way.”
“ The drought, you mean,” said I.
“No—that is the least trouble.” He lowered
his voice impressively. “It’s the socialistic legis-
lation that’s ruining it.”
“Do you know Australia?”
“No, sir ; but I can read, and I know how this
Labor legislation is regarded in THE city.”
“ But,” said I, “Maoriland has had a bellyfull of
socialistic legislation, as you call it, and has vastly
improved under it; and England has had Tory
legislation always, and couldn't be worse than it
is—so how do you prove your case? ”
He didn’t attempt it—beyond shooting his sus-
picioned cuffs, again, but he said triumphantly :
“At any rate, sir, while Australia persists in
the present suicidal socialistic legislation, not a
penny of my money will ever go into Australian
securities.”
My poor country ! There’s tuppence lost to
you, anyhow.
And this magnificent pretension of being able
to turn off the seasons at the meter and put a plug
in the sun, is not merely individual—it is tradi-
tional. For over a hundred years the Englishman
has believed in English omnipotence, and it is
only a superstition—a mixture of the Norse Saga
and the Arabian Nights and the Roman fable and
the Greek myth.
Newspapers talk the same magniloquent bosh
as the cuff-shooter of the Fleapit. I read in the
alleged financial column of a London weekly that
a new loan from Natal would be a success, as in-
vestors admired the colony for its loyalty to
England—which is to say that a pawnbroker lends
money for God’s sake.
They are a marvellous people. The Trade
Unionist workmen, as far as I can see, are fol-
lowers of a long dead and exploded superstition
called “Cobdenism.” when it was alive; although
Cobden was the bitterest of Tories —a man who
said that “ Trades Unions are founded upon prin-
ciples of brutal tyranny and monopoly. I would
rather live under a Dey of Algiers than a Trades
Committee.”
England imports £127,000,000 worth of goods
from the United States, much of it iron and steel,
every year ; yet the English Trade Unionist is
alleged to be still a Freetrader. They have a
Government that built a Uganda railway over
which £3,000,000 of money can’t be accounted for
—a Government that allowed its War Office to buy
war horses from Hungarian knackers’ yards, and
yet nobody has been hanged for these things. In
the event of a national crisis, the pink Lord Rose-
bery prattles two columns and a half of cheap
phrasings, and next day England reads the speech
and breathes freely again, and says: “Thank
God ! England is England yet.” If the trouble is
very threatening, Kipling writes a poem, and the
enemy is expected to run for his life.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Little Bush Slave.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a little girl of four who pleaded:
“ Mummy, earn’ I play ? ”
“No, yer carn’t! Rock the baby, while
Mummy gets Daddy’s dinner ready, or I’ll beat
yer.”
Little barefooted Bessie toddled to the heavy
cradle (a wooden box, nailed to weighty rockers,
made of green ironbark timber), and swayed it to
and fro until one of the rockers flattened out her
little toes.
“ Mummy, me toe —me toe ! ” she wailed.
“ What on earth ’ave yer done now ? Yer alwus
doin’ somethin’. Why carn’t yer be careful?”
growled Mummy, as she bandaged up the sobbing
child’s foot with a piece of old shirt.
“ Put salve on it, Mummy—put salve on it! ”
“ There ain’t no salve ” (ointment made of sting-
ing nettles and fat was the family medicine chest).
“Rock baby agen till Mummy goes to the well
for water, and then Mummy will make some salve
when Daddy has his dinner.”
She had to go a quarter of a mile to the well,
and, judging by the shadows, it was near dinner
time. She picked up her bucket and hurried off,
leaving little Bessie to console herself and her
baby brother. Bessie had learnt to be patient.
She knew that there would be no salve for her
sore foot until Daddy had his dinner, so she
rocked her baby brother to sleep, and began play-
ing with her rag doll.
“’E’s gone asleep, Mummy,” she whispered,
as her mother entered and thoughtlessly thumped
her bucket down on to a wooden stool, wakening
the child.
“Rock him, Bessie; quick! Daddy’s comm,
and the kittle’s not on.”
Bessie began to cry.
“ None of yer cryin’! One cranky kid’s enough,
without you j’inin’ in. Stop it, I tell yer !
d’y’ear ! ” the mother bawled—“or I’ll put yer
down the diggers’ hole.” Bessie suppressed her
sobs and began rocking the baby.
“Shut yer eyes, lovey, and go by-by,” she
coaxed ; but baby, thinking there was something
better to look at than the bark roof, lifted his
head. Bessi® did not notice him, and kept on
rocking. His head bumped against the side of the
cradle, and he began to roar his loudest.
“ That bloomin’ kid’s alwus ’owlin’ when a feller
comes ’orae to ’is dinner. What the ’ell s the
matter with’im ? ”
“ ’E’s bumped ’ees ’ed, Daddy,” replied Bessie.
“ I’ll give it to yer, me lady, for rocken ’im so
’ard ! ” said the mother, smacking Bessie on the
side of the face with her open hand and then pick-
ing up the howling kid.
“ I never done it, Mummy !” sobbed Bessie.
“Yes, yer did ! Rockin’ ’im too ’ard ! ”
“For two pins I’d give yer no dinner, me little
lady ! ” chipped in Daddy.
“ I’ll put hm in the collar ” (the horse’s collar),
said Mummy, “ and yer can just play with ’im till
me and Daddy have our dinner.”
Bessie played with him under the gum. She
thought it better than rocking him, and baby
himself preferred looking at the fowls to the bark
roof.
“ When y’ve done yer dinner, y’ better put some
more seed-wheat to soak in the bluestone water,
and feed them bloomin’ pigs, and don’t ferget to
give ’em water. The’ve been squealing all ther
mornin’,” said Daddy. “I dunno wot yer doin’
’arf yer time,” he muttered to himself.
Mummy hurried off, heedless of her little hungry
children and her promise to Bessie that she would
make salve for her foot.
It was nearly 3 o’clock when Mummy took
baby and gave little Bessie her dinner—a plate
of cold potatoes. Scarcely had she begun her meal
when her mother said, “’Urry up now, so as yer
can play with baby while I bake and get Daddy’s
tea ready ; and don’t let ’im go to sleep, either, or
’e’ll not sleep to-night.”
“Will night be long cornin’, Mummy?” in-
quired Bessie, already weary oMier day’s task.
“Never mind talkin’. ’Urry up, and mind this
kid,” said Mummy, angrily, as she planked the
baby down in the horse-collar, leaving Bessie to
mind him.
“ I alius got ter mind yer ! yer cranky little
debil ; and the night’ll nebber come! ” said
Bessie.
The rays of the setting sun were striking the
tree tops when Mummy took baby, fed him in the
cradle, and told Bessie to rock him to sleep.
“ Oome an’ ’ave yer tea, an’ go to bed outer the
road ! ” said her mother, when baby fell asleep.
While Daddy and Mummy talked about the
crops, the weather, and the pigs, a little girl, lying
on a bag of straw with her clothes for a pillow,
whispered in her dream, “’E’s gone asleep.
Mummy ! Carn’t I play ? ”
P.B.


Covered with Boils
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Cures Severe Case of Impure Blood. Also Ini'
proves the Sight. A Blood-Builder.
wm
m
fi
K.
w
<(!
m
M.
ms.
m
SSS
V/.
Mr. James Johnson, engineer, of
South Forbes, New South Wales,
sends us his photograph, and says:
“My whole body being covered
with boils, I was induced to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla (through an advertise-
ment in the local paper), and after
taking one bottle I am entirely free
from any eruption whatever. I also
found it beneficial to the eyesight,
being a strengthener not only of the
blood, but of the sight. I can and will
confidently recommend this valuable
blood-purilier to all suffering from
similar complaints as myself.”
This is a splendid testimonial, and
we trust it may prove of great benefit
to you. giving you renewed confidence
in this grand family medicine.
“Ayer’s Sarsaparilla makes the blood pure.” This is a very short sen-
tence; yet it may mean everything to you, even life itself. “Everything
depends upon the blood.” This is another short sentence, and yet how
true it is. When the blood is pure and rich, then the nerves are strong
and steady, the brain is clear and active, and the skin is free from rashes
and eruptions. If you are not in the best of health, get this grand medicine
at once.. You will feel its tonic, strengthening effects before a couple of
days have passed.
Be sure you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. The old reliable Sarsaparilla.
Do not run any risk. Look out for imitations.
AYER’S I arsaparilla
Overcomes Depressing Effects of a Warm Climate.
Prepared by DK. J. C. AYER CO.. Lowell. Haas.. U. 8. A.
ELION
£
&
7?
S
H
O)
r»
fix*
:
c**
Highly recommended by
the Medical Faculty for
LIVER and KIDNEY DIS-
ORDERS, and IMPAIRED
DICE i I'ION.
All Merchants, Hotels,
Shops, etc., and at. •.
NiCHOLLS’
Dandelion Ale Co*
Camperdown, Sydney.
GOUT
IS PUB HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS lIOW TO CURE IT.
a\JMR’§
GOUT
PILLS
I§ tha Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousand*
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicine*.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
t* prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2*. 9d. per
boa, or obtainable through any Chemist *r Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
TO MEN.
A reliable brochure,
“Word* of Wisdom,"
showing how every man,
youngor old, can be thoroughly and quickly
cured with the wonderful Homoeopathic
xreatment and Electro • Battery Appliance,
Send addressed envelope, and the book will be
sent post free. Address The Irving Institute,
corner Hunter and Bligh Sts . Sydney.
fREE
t
NO CURE. NO PAY.
ft will Cost you NOTHING to Try Our
IMPROVED and PATENTED ELECTRIC
BELTS for NERVOUS and other DISEASES.
Send for one AT ONCE, and PAY for it
within three months after you are SATIS-
FIED your CURE is PERMANENT.
ELEGTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
63H ELIZABETH ST„ SYDNEY.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
0«= RX CORO’S
6
R emedy forfWEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores energy Strength
an d Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO . 47 Oneen st
Melbourne; N.S. r.-Faulding &C0.,16 o’Connell
St, Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
? v m%
ATtNT LEATHPR BOOTS
CU2ED HI9SM
JL^
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and la.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing (or
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold hy all Storekeeper»,
Boot Saddlers, ete.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
°5.®J , . 10U8 *»d Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
• Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
-sn gf ° f J^ eat ’ Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
sr vmsTsa ,?«;:;*? riSiss
»° ne X of tlu,se PHls, and they will he acknowledged to be " WORTH A
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. Thev
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System the long-lost Complexion : bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rohbbud of Hkalth ihe AVholk Physical Enkkot of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debiliiated is that Bcec.havi s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
he wond. I ull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold l ivery where, in Boxes, Is l>d, and as 9d each.
«
CONSULTS BY LETTER, £l.
41 COLLIKTS STREET, AOIEJJLiBOXJIIKrE.
MEDICINES (appropriately packed) forwarded over the Commonwealth and to the East.
IMP** THE BROWN- SEQUARD TREATMENT A SPECIALTY.
HMtism
m
□
Reader, why not be able to me the
moat mystbrfoug and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hour* time, with-
o> t leaving your home. You ran per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you ran cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify j our ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book f rua a m fin moth
illustrated LESBON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and eecrete
of the Art. It eoiitailM
hundreds of beautiful and
most elaborate
artistic engravings, and U he
a»d expensive thing of the xind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed ex
receipt ef fid. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
te 11 vpnotiae. It is aci auce ef
a life-time. Address—
ţ
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN'
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other reined v has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11, -.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Ayents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT A. POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. \Y. NioholP, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 Hiyh-street, He'fast, Ireland.
'l*
RUSES
Insecticide
ť
t
£
*■*
it#
ATIONS
Ij^eyv/m
WV -- ! j
ft
k<sa:
KiLLs
ALL
INSECTS
AsK
fon
RUSES
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
SIR ROBERT!
ŧ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.**
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. S 6 Chro nos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and oid, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and .out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and IllustratedMaruiaoe Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1904 edition,
•2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is t>d. Ned Donnelly's Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is fid each, posted. Educating the
House, is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is fid. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is Cd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
WindowTiljkktWriting Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiixiquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, I*. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Plano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoylk’s
Card Gamf.s, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
pon'.d. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datf., Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is od. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t bo fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, a w £italliiktd to Ytart.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got It*
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
Writ# for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT,
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nbw Tricks with Cards, Is. SAPPHO,genu:ne,
Is.- Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Cd.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Cloo Dancing Made Kast, is.
Practical Palmistrt, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Lettl* Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. M- kgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, L'd posted.
Toxolggt, 7s 6d oost. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full a rect ons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), la 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budgbt Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Larg£ Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood’
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Trick*
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park


Your Friend would like
A Coil of Garden Hose.
A Coil of Garden Hose makes a
Splendid Gift for a friend who
has a Garden. It would remind
him of YOU every time he
used itt
f-inch x 2 Ply ...
Coil of 60 feet for
f-inch x 3 Ply ...
Coil of 60 feet for
f-inch x 4 Ply ...
Coil of 60 feet for
6Jd. foot.
30s.
9d. foot.
40s.
lOd. foot.
475. 6d.
Perdriau Rubber Go.“
270 George St., Sydney.
BALSAM.
" Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with preat success.”
J. Hall, School-house, E. Marknam.
AGENTS.
ELLIOTT IIROTiIKRS & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY
Limited
•i#
r
32 and 34 Clarence St., Sydney*
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues.
PUMPS for all Services.
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
K
w
TANGYBS
WJVWM
bnblNliS
BENNIE, TEABE & GO.,
Melbourne y Sydney, Perth and Coolgardie.
& Lacy
Every Pump Guaranteed
■
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND PRICES.
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of!
service kept in stock—both Single and
Duplex, Vertical and Horizontal.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps (both
outside packed, and bucket and plunger pattern), Air
Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc., etc., eto.
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines & Boilers.
E=3
t
WATCHES, KINGS,
BANGLES, Etc.,
Given away for selling only 20 Packets of our
VIOLET PERFUME SACHETS.
Send t!o tcoiiep. We Crust you.
■imply fend your nine and addrsss distinctly written on a post card, and we will for
ward to your address the Sachets, which you sell among your friends at ii
pence per packet; you then return us the 10/-, and we send you your choice o
presents from our premium lists which we send with the Sachets.
We make no 3d. Sachets or cheap inferior goods whatever.
Address: VIOLET PERFUME CO.,
Levt.c. box 252 G'P'O" SYDNEY.
The VOLCANIC
AERATING
W. JAMES, Proprietor.
Hotel Proprietors,
Country Storekeepers, &c*
MAKE YOUR OWN
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Soda Water, etc., of HlgfcMt
Quality and without Skilled tabor.
Equal to Best Factory Made and very much Cheeper.
Absolutely Best and Simplest Machine Known.
The Volcanic Aerated Water Maohine is being used
by Messrs. Spiers & Pond on the Railway Refresh-
ment Bars, London and Scotland.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The “VOLCANIC" Machine
was the first of its kind introduced into Australasia.
It received the Gold Medal against all competitors at
the Ballarat Exhibition.
Write for Pamphlets, containing Testimonials
from people who have used the machines for years.
Office: 101 QUEEN-ST., MELBOURNE.
Depot: 196 CECIL-ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Sizb, 6J" x 3J" x S».
We are Direct Importers
ţ
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all size*
for all
purpose*)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools nnd Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for CWfrtraqtors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
E. L. SCRVTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLAREKTCB STREET, SYDNEY.
* 1
THE CARD CONCENTRATOR
Is MORE EFFICIENT than any other because it has Channels cut in the Table Surface, instead
of Riffles nailed on to it. These Channels have a section similar to a Gold Dish .
Has GREATER CAPACITY than rival machines because its Mechanism is an Improve-
ment on others, and progresses the mineral to discharge end much faster than that of other Tables.
its Price is MODERATE.
its Patents
Send
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., 71 Clarence St.,Sydney ; 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
