

BULLOCH LADE’S BULK WHISKY.
IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
Mining
Gr. WATKINS &Z, CO.,
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
—»OR— .
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS aud GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
JEFFREY
Roller. Stsel and Special CHAINS
(adley’s Orient (ots!.
sinr
PIONEER
leather
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY
SOLE AGEUTS FOR n—i
Labor-Saving Appliances manufactured by JEFFREY MFG. CO., Ohio, U.S.A.
Chain & Cable Conveyors, Bucket Elevators, Rock, Lime & Cement Crushers, Ore Handling Machinery,
Vibrating Screens for Screening Ores, Quartz, Portland Cement Clinker, Chemicals, Coke, Coat &c.
\
jPincrAppk Brand
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
HAMS ®
BACON.
ffiß’S
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
mi
f bis
200-
JKi.
Pi
m
t
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
EM & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
'wed wCr&jOiAs (imcoKu^
CONTINENTAL MOTOR TYRES.
Wallace Continental Cycle Tyres.
AT ALL MOTOR AND CYCLE DEPOTS. N.S.W. BRANCH: 7 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
like
OURS!
1/3
GHOOM
2/6 DAILY
TREATI
LTD.
BREWERS, WINE <t SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL
and CORDIALS.
WATERS
OIL
No Other in
the World .
sivnda:
NQINES
‘SIMPLEX’
irrigating plants supplied.
ABSOLUTE
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
*n Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Goulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21s.
HOI 1
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred
°f “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXUKIOUS XMAS GIFT.
hel/don spa
«r -«p . 1 t y
—“Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
V01.26.-No. 1332. j
[Thursday. August 24, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a News pap* ?.


THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Nat Gould, One ot a Mob, picture boards 2s, cloth 2s 6d
postage 4d. ’
Swinburne, A.C., Love’s Cross-Currents, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Rita,” Queer Lady Judas, paper covers, 2s 6d, cloth
3s 6d, postage 6d.
Australian Pros and Cons : A Guide to the Principal Ques-
tions of the Day ; a book for all readers, 2s, post 6d.
The Strand Magazine, half-yearly vol., January to June
1905, cloth, gilt edges, 6s 6d, postage Is 2df ’
sSSSI^SsSr
71 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and at Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane and London,
FOR THE LUNQS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Core of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
Of Consum/jtion.
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
says
“ Of great service “«
affections of 9
voice and throat.
3E “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE
W HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES .
hn'rrrui,w o^ TA,N *n No imno A^ E •* °T HER POIBONBUB DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6."
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Queen a Place, Agencies in all Auetralian State* and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London.
Depot: 5A 7
THE BED PAGE.
IRISH LITERATURE
THE well-known and popular Cabinet
of Irish Literature now appears in a
new edition of four handsome volumes
issued by the Gresham Publishing
Co., London. The first three volumes
reprint the original work, with some
omissions and slight additions. In the
fourth volume, freshly compiled, the book is
brought practically to date by inclusion of
most of the young Irish writers of the last
twenty years. The included portraits of
authors appear to greater advantage, and
several are added ; and the whole work has
thus become a more interesting and valuable
record than formerly.
The first editor of the Cabinet was Charles
Read, whose industry and knowledge gave
the work a solid backbone that one has often
had occasion to appreciate. The new editor,
Katharine Hinkson, has brought to the task
a lighter mind and a taste less trustworthy.
She seems less occupied with what is litera-
ture in the high sense than with the current
performances that represent the new school
of writers. Thus her additions give an
agreeable review of interesting work
that has been published recently,
rather than an authoritative choice of the
part of that work which may be expected
permanently to remain. Her personal fancy
is a pleasant companion, but one distrusts
her judgment. She has included apparently
every author with the least claim to distinc-
tion, and has not insisted upon Irish birth
when there is a properly-attested Irish
parent—L. I. Guiney, for example, being
added from America and “George Egerton”
from Australia.
This Cabinet —so wide is its range, so
diverse its contents—-affords in comparatively
small compass a picturesque view of Irish
literary achievement—an achievement rather
high than broad, rather fitful than steady,
rather blazing than enduring. Irish-English
literature is always walking upon summits
and falling into abysses. Of the greater
part one might maintain the paradox that it
is not literature at all : it is essentially
oratory, a written rhetoric that would be
more effective if spoken. The Irish are a
race of prophets, seers, bards, but not a race
of writers, though their writers are numerous
and admirable. Yet even as one admires, one
is impelled often to reflect how the causes
of admiration are categorically weapons from
the orator’s arsenal, needing an orator’s
speech and personality to hurl them above
the imminent bathos of the printed page.
THE WINE-BFBBER'S GLORY: A NEW SONG.
Tune—“ The Jolly Miller.”
Quo me, Bacche, rapis tui
Plenum ? —Hor.
If Horatius Flacchus made jolly old Bacchus
So often his favourite theme ;
If in him it was classic to praise his old Massic
And Falernian to gulp in a stream ;
If I alstaffs vagaries ’bout Sack and Canaries
Have pleased us again and again,
Shall we not make merry on Port, Claret, Sherry
Madeira, and sparkling Champagne ?
First Port, that potation preferred by our nation
io all the small drink of the French ;
’ r is the best standing liquor for layman or vicar
i he army, the navy, the bench;
P is strong and substantial, believe me, no man
shall
Good port from my dining-room send ;
In your soup—after cheese—every way—it wil
please,
But most with a friend.
Fair Sherry Port’s sister, for years they dis-
missed her
To the kitchen to flavour the jellies ;
There long she was banish’d, and well nigh had
vanish d
To comfort the kitchen-maids’ bellies;
I ill His Majesty fixt, he thought Sherry when
sixty J
Years old, like himself, quite the thing :
So I think it but proper to fill a tip-topper
Of Sherry to drink to the King.
Though your delicate Claret by no means goes
Js famed for its exquisite flavour;
Tis a nice provocation to wise conversation
Oueer blarney, or harmless palaver;
T is the bond of society—no inebriety
hollows a swig of the Blue ;
One may drink a whole ocean, but ne’er feel com-
motion
Or headache from Ch&teau Margaux.
But though Claret is pleasant to taste for the pre-
sent,
On the stomach it sometimes feels cold ;
k.o to keep it all clever, and comfort your liver,
lake a glass of Madeira that’s old ;
vv hen t has sailed to the Indies, a cure for all
wind ’tis,
And1 coiio’t will put to the rout;
All doctors declare a good glass of Madeira
i. ne best of all things for the gout.
Then Champagne ! Dear Champagne! ah ! how
gladly I drain a
Whole bottle of Oeil de Perdrix
To the eye of my charmer, to make my love
warmer,
If cool that love ever could be :
I could toast her for ever—but never, oh ! never
Would I her dear name so profane ;
w K 1 B ' er w^en I’ m tipsy it slips to my lips, I
Wash it back to my heart with Champagne !
W.M.
Oratory is the nation’s native mode : litera-
ture is still an alien garment that cramps its
Irish wearers.
In these volumes masters of prose such
as Steele and Goldsmith, Burke and
Lecky, are of course excerpted : there
are speech and anecdote, song and
story; but limitations of space inevi-
tably make many citations fragmentary.
It is the poets, and especially the lyric poets,
who are best displayed. For fullness of
emotion, for splendour of colour and melody,
and for imagination that rises and rises till it
is lost in dream, there are none to surpass
them. In art they often fail: sometimes
one feels the want of substance in their
11 immortal, proud shadows ”; yet their best is
maybe as near perfection as mortal hand can
compass. And in lighter vein, what agility
and gaiety! “Father Prout ” is well
known : William Maginn, whose astonishing
“ Potoris Gloria ” is here given in Latin and
English, deserves not to be forgotten. These
and a hundred other men add of their wealth
to make The Cabinet of Irish Literature a
treasure.
MEMORANDA
A scrap of verse found last week in N.9.W.
Arbitration Court:
A. Bierce rises to the surface of things in The
Cosmopolitan. “The man who is always taking
you by the hand is the same who if you were
hungry would take you by the” restaurant.
Barrier Truth prints some stories of early
Broken Hill. One of them refers to two of the
bowwof the “Big Mine ” - Harper and Holly.
Said Mrs. Patton, the general manager’s wife, to
Holly on one occasion, “ I hear you are a terrible
man to swear, Mr. Holly?” “! t i
Mrs. Patton, you should hear Harper!” * *
With compliments to the excessive literature of
the Stars and Stripes : Blow Paul Jones.
Whistlers Spirit still lives, and an unlucky
publisher h«ts trodden on its tail. (One presumes
non-alcoholic Spirits are neuter.) Elkin Mathews
whs to circulate in London an American
publication, containing copies of letters written by
Whistler to one Richards. As the copyright of
letters vests in the sender and not in the recipient,
Miss R. Birnie Phillip, Whistler’s executrix,
(being mighty in the Spirit of Whistler, and
C ' u,l attributes), was able to compel
withdrawal, apology, and payment of solicitors’
costs. This new triumph over the sordid Philistine
presumably sent the Spirit whooping in ecstasy
through nine spheres of stars.
Potoris Gloria : A Latin Melody.
To a tune for itself, lately discovered in Herculaneum •
being an ancient Roman air—or, if not, quite as irood. ’
jollification lflCat ‘ Q “ 6 boisterosa—i.e., with boisterous
Si Horatio Flacco de liilari Baccho
Mos carmina es et cantare,
Si Massica vina vocaret divina,
Falernaque sciret potare;
Si nos juvat mire Falstaffium audire
Laudentem Hispanicum merum,
Cor nostrum sit lsetum ob Portum, Claretum,
Xerense, Campanum, Maderum.
Est Portum potatio quam Anglica natio
Vinis Gallife praetulit lautis :
Sacerdote amatur—a laicis potatur,
Consultis, militibus, nautis.
Si meum conclave hoc forte et suave
Vitaverit, essem iniquus ;
Post caseum—in jure—plaeebit secure,
Praesertim cum adsit amicus.
Huic quam vis cognatum, Xerense damnatum,
Gelata eulina tingebat,
Vinum exul ibique diu coquo cuique
Generosum liquorem praebebat.
Sed a rege putatum est valde pergratum
Cum (ut ipse) sexagenarium—
Large ergo implendum, regique bibendum
Opinor est nunc necessarium.
Claretum, oh ! quamvis haud forte (deest nam vis
Divino sapore notatur;
Hinc dulcia dicuntur—faceta naseuntur—
Leniterque philosophisatur.
Socialis potatio ! te haud fugit ratio
Purpureo decoram colore !
Tui maximum mare liceret potare
Sine mentis frontisve dolore.
Etsi vero in praesenti Claretum bibenti
Videatur imprimis jucundum,
Cito venter frigescat-quod ut statim decrescat
Vetus vmum Maderum adeundum.
Indos si navigarit, vento corpus levarit,
Coliccamque fug&rit hoc merum ;
Podagra cruciate vinum optimum dato,
Clamant medici docti “Maderum !”
Campanum ! Campanum ! quo gaudio lagenam
Ocelli Perdricis sorberem !
Ad dominse oculum exhauriam poculum
Tali philtro si unquam egerem
Propinarem divinam-sed peream si sinam
JSomen carum ut sic profanatur,
Et si cum Bacchus urget, ad labia surget
Campano ad cor revolvetur.
W.M.
“The parentage of that great social and politi-
cal upheaval was intellectual, the idea was ele-
vated,” writes Joseph Conrad, referring to the
French Revolution ; “ but it is the bitter fate of
the idea to lose its royal form and power—to lose
its ‘virtue’—the moment it descends from its
solitary throne to work its will amongst the people.
It is a king whose destiny is never to know the
obedience of his subjects, except at the cost of
degradation.”
G. H. Thring, in the iV. A. Review, urges that
to flood a country with the works of eminent
writers of other countries is to soak the nation with
foreign ideas, and to destroy those patriotic feel-
ings which a great national literature tends to
produce. He says rightly that the importance of
this point has not been sufficiently understood,
and quotes a concrete instance.
A deputation of the citizens of Hungary—a country 7
still outside the Bern Convention—appealed to the
Government, and complained that the large influx of
thought from other countries tended to foster in that
country the spirit, the tone, the sentiments of foreigners,
and that the young generations were not growing up Hun-
garian patriots full of the vigour and sentiments of their
race, hut nerveless cosmopolitans. They stated that this
result was due to the suppression of genuine Hungarian
literature, owing to the unfair competition by piracy of
foreign works.
Australia is in the same case. While this
country continues to borrow its literature from
Britain, the emergence of a patriotic national
spirit will always tend to be thwarted or delayed.
Swinburne’s novel, Loves Cross-Currents, is
found to reprint an essay in epistolary fiction
published in an English maga. long ago. The
Times praises the grand manner of the dedication
to Watts-Dunton, and adds that the book itself is
“a terribly pale affair,” closing in “undeniable
dullness.” “Mrs. Waterbrook owned to David
Copperfield,” we are reminded, “that if she had
a weakness it was for Blood. It was a very
reasonable weakness, and one that no write;'
should be without.”
Sir Frederick Treves’ condemnation of alcoho
has been duly starred by the prohibitionists, but
a-priori one would say that Treves is unfitted to
comprehend the whole case. He is a brilliant
surgeon, and the quality of brain that makes him
a brilliant surgeon is antithetic to the qualities
which make a great philosopher. “Surgery is
an exact science ” : a physician needs imagination.
He must rise to generalisations, while the surgeon
may follow details. As G. E. Channing writes in
an admirable study of a doctor’s life in July
Harper's, “ to make a great physician many things
are needed : a colouring of the artistic tempera-
ment, a dash of the gambler’s, a touch of femini-
nity, as well as the solid stratum of cool common
sense at the bottom of all. These eke out the
modicum of scientific knowledge, which is all
mankind has yet wrested from secretive nature.”
An interesting point in Justice Darling’s sum-
up of the libel case Thomas v. Lucy, was his state-
ment that
not think that anything published in Punch
couldTlo anybody the same harm as if it appeared in
a more serious paper.
Thus the doctrine of injury and damages is made
to depend, not wholly upon the libel, but partly
upon the character of the vehicle of libel. Though
the relevancy is not clear, How could there be
a more serious paper than Punch 1
JtKCEIV KJ)
Some Economic and Social Aspects of Public
Health Work, by J. S. C. Elkington, Chief
Tas. Health Officer (Hobart; Govt. Printer).
A brightly-written pamphlet stressing the need of
preventive sanitary work.
Kangaroo Island, by E. H. Halleck (Ad., W. K.
Thomas), with map and illus.
Kangaroo 1., near Adelaide, ranks next in size to Tas-
mania among the islands of the Aus. coast. It was dis-
covered by Flinders in 1802, and by Dowie a century
later. In this 48-pp. pamphlet the writer chatters plea-
santly of its history and hopes.
Queensland. —Annual Report of the Chief Pro-
tector of Aboriginals for 190 A (Brisb., Govt.
Printer).
Dr. Both continues his useful work, and naturally
has become an object of attack for those meaner whites
m the outlying districts who were accustomed to abuse
our black brother. Queensland is now mapped into
aboriginal protection districts, each with a local police-
officer in charge ; and the administration is as thorough
as funds at disposal will permit. It is pleasant to find
Combo praised by leading pastoralists in the Gulf
country for his prowess as a stock hand. “He is just
as good as a white man,” say many of them. That is
what professional pedestrians think, for applications
from individuals wishing to employ aboriginals on the
running track “continue to be received, and are
invariably refused.” At Torres’ Strait the Murrav and
Dauar Islanders own three fishing-boats, and go'shell-
ing on their own account, earning anything up to 3001.
a year clear. Criminal offences both by and upon
aboriginals are decreasing remarkably.—Generally, the
way in which the blacks are being looked after reflects
credit upon Queensland and the officials concerned.
Flashlights on Japan and The East, by Dr. W.
Maloney, M.P., in collaboration with Francis
Myers (Melb., Andrade).
A richly-written gossip about a journey to Japan,
full of information and suggestion—and warning.
Cheerless, I look from my arbiter's seat,
Asking for oxygen each one I meet :
Why must I suffocate here every day 1
Why must 1 poison my young life away ?
iVo one to ventilate, no one to fan,
No one to jrunkah a half-stifled man :
Sniffing miasmas up, sadly I stare,
Child of the atmosphere, driven from air !
THREE POINTS OF VIEW
mSE Japanese point of view is admirably
I indicated in the book of The Russo-
Japanese Conflict, by K. Asakawa,
published by Constable, (7s. 6d.
net). [This book should be read by every
member of the Federal Parliament; and,
incidentally, one member of- that Parlia-
ment should devote himself especially to
Japan. He should equip himself with all
the facts and figures, and open and main-
tain channels of direct information, so as to
obtain an expert’s knowledge of the subject,
kept always up to date. Such a devotee
would do national service. Better still,
perhaps, if the Federal Government gave
the task to a permanent official with brains.
There should be at least one man in this
country to know everything about Japan.]
Asakawa states his case thus : He nni
out that in the last thirty years there hi
been an immense growth in Japanese tral
and industry, coincidently with an enormnn
increase of population. In 1875 the non, i
tion_ was 34 millions. To-day ft j* JJ
millions, increasing at the rate of 600 000
year. This new population cannot be surf
ported by agriculture, since all the good land
in Japan is already under intense cultivi
tion. It must be supported by industry and
trade—-by an increased importation of raw
material and food-stuffs, and an increased
exportation of manufactures. Follow,
that, unless Japanese national life is to bt
paralysed, Japan must have an “open door’
— a foreign outlet. That, says Asakawa is
why Japan is making war—to keep open
the markets of East Asia. Korea and
Manchuria supply her with wheat, rice, and
other food-stulls, and take cotton goods in
return. |||| , |g
If there were a Japanese colony in North
Australia, North Australia could do as much
or more. It is more distant, but it is more
fertile. For the present, Japan is content
with East Asia ; but, as The Japan Gazette,
pointed out on Sept. 17, 1903, while “ Japan
has an overcrowded and increasing popula-
tion, Australia is a vast country compara-
tively unpopulated. Japan is an energetic
industrial nation, sadly needing field,s & for
labour. Australia is a fine large territory,
wasted for lack of labour. Nations that are
growing will assert their right to find room
wherever there is room ; and untilled fields
will be seized by the right of might, if not
thrown open in some other way. People
are not to hold land without making good
use of it.” That is all true. K. Asakawa is
quite intelligible. The Japan Gazette is
quite reasonable. If 46 crowded millions of
Australians held Japan, and four scattered
millions of Japanese held Australia, Aus-
tralia at Tokio might talk precisely as The
Japan Gazette talks. It might tell the
Japanese that they must take up the Yellow
Man’s Burden and occupy their territory, or
the Australians would come from Nippon
and do it for them. What’s sauce for the
Japanese goose is sauce for the Australian
gander.
pm
Britain may care a little about Australia,
but she cares a good deal more about
Britain. Britain, like Japan, depends much
more on industry than upon agriculture;
and, like Japan, must have open markets if
she is to keep alive. She has an open mar-
ket in India, which Russia threatened in the
distance. She has, or wants, an open mar-
ket in China, which Russia threatened close
at hand. Since Japan was willing to try
and remove those threats, obviously it was
British policy to let her. Japan has made a
good job of it, and Britain seems inclined to
be grateful. It was cabled on June 2 that
the British Foreign Minister says there is no
question of ending the Japanese treaty, but
only of maintaining it or strengthening it.
The treaty provides for mutual neutrality in
war ; mutual assistance if more than one
Power attacks ; and common action in regard
to China and Corea. It terminates on 29th
January, 1907, but if notice of termination is
not given on 29th January, 1906, it remains
in force subject to one year’s notice of
termination. One is assured that some
similar treaty will be kept in force by
Britain. Japan has proved herself a power-
ful ally ; she will remain a defence against
Russia ; and she is apparently content to
open the Asian market, or part of it, to
Britain as well as herself. Britain could hope
for nothing better. ,j,-‘
Jt
Australia could scarcely expect anything
better. Since Japan must expand, we want
her to expand in Asia, not in Australasia.
It is true that the greater her expansion, the
more formidable will be her menace to this
country. In 50 years of unimpeded progress,
she may have nearly 100 millions of popula-
tion ; and apparently the Chinese and
Koreans cannot be squeezed much closer.
But the menace of her impeded expansion is
much more formidable here and now. What
is quite clear is that Britain must not be
permitted to break down the White
Australia policy in favour of Japan. As North
Queensland knows, the Japanese are industri-
ally the most dangerous competitors of all
the coloured races. The Kanaka is tract-
able ; the Chinaman is manageable ; but the
Jap wants to own the country, and shows
fight if hindered.
There is no need for exclusion to be offen-
sive. Britain can tell Japan what is in some
ways quite true, that the Australians are an
inferior race who must be sheltered from the
superior Jap if they are to survive. Pnt 111
that way, there is no ground for complaint.
A.G.S.


V
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
~, Hign, S'SrjDSNTES'ST.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS' FRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. *^SYDNEY.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS.
AH Balls fitted with Best Quality
(tiVIH'JHTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
BUGBY OB ASSOCIATION
y-j
m
mV V!
OoT B
K\l
’(Witty
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “ Royal ” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A. N. A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“ DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE'S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,’’Association Match only, 15/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY,
Solid Leather, No. 1 ..
„ „ 2 ..
» „ „ 3 ..
„ „ 4 ..
„ Match 11.
s. d.
each 2 3
„ 2 9
„ 3 6
„ 4 3
„ 5 0
ASSOCIATION. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 6
„ „ „ 2 .. .. .. .. „ 3 3
„ ~ 3 „ 3 9
.. 4 „ 4 6
~ ~ Match 111 5 0
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality.. ~ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3, 2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
No
s. d.
each 1 0
„ 1 4
~17
„ 110
No. 5
~ 6, Association only
~ fi, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
s. cl.
Stout Twill, with tapes .. . pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles .. .. „ 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. ~ 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps „ 2 0
Gold Cape, straps and buckles 2 9
s. d.
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps .. pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads 4 0
Same as above, larger size ~ 6 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s (id, 12s 6d, 133 fid pair.
BRASS INFLATOR3— Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s fid, 3s 6d, 6s Gd each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is fid each.
LACING AWLS, fid each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s fid each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS— White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buffi Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS —Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 4S/» dozen ; 4/3 each.
fm
3/6
Handicap
51-
STANbARb
7/3
Ascot
2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. Cs (id, 7s (id
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 19s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25®
“ E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty" .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg: 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES .
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s Gd set
Men’s Tail, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; I
60z., .12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT IVIU3T ACCOMPANY ORDER."^®
gpgr* Illustrated Sports, Fishing' Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
14
5 10
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
-10/6 f'rS.
Only a limited
quantity on band.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete,, with best
quality Red Rubber | Bladder—
-7s Od, 11s Cd, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, His Od,
ISs (id, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/0 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is Od, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
SPECIAL NOTICE
The Celebrated
it
MAINE "
RIFLE,
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISiri. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jlb.
THE MAINE
Pifie
Jheu/inp Pifle A parr
Price 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
CONICAL BALI
§ns>
HUBBUB^
-A.i^Ewrcj]xrxTXo3xr.
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1, (id, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s w
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
~ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle .
~ 22 Extra Long.
$lOO $lOOO
.. Is Od 9s 6d
.. Is Od 10s Od
.. Is 3d 12s Od
.. Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
j B B.L. Gan, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Beal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
“The Reliable,”
™SS £6 12s 6d
,| q o qamci (ith ll7 RE LI ABLE 5 * D.8.8.L. HAMIVSER ESS GUN, 12*
gaug* top lev"*genuine Damascus or “Siemens” steel barrel,, both choke, side
toclfaction, ™£l2 12S
ALI'sMOKELESs’ POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
WINCHESTER automatic repeating
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight f K
s Jib.
re
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, pistol *
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ..
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” liifio
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. \ 5S
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lb. .. 13 Q
RER/lINGTGN S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3|lb • • • ■ •• ° 6
Ml
SI
5


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
and Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
SINGLE ROOM : -For One Guest, 2/6 per day, or 15/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests, 5/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM : For one Guest (with Full Board), 6/- per day, or 30/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or JB3 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance : MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
"NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
High in quality, yet moderate in price. Win-
chester “New Rival” Shotgun Cartridges,
loaded with Black Powder are in a class by
themselves, price considered. They are manu-
factured with the same care and skill which
has made the name “ Winchester ” synonom-
ous with reliability and accuracy. Sportsmen
the world over use them. A trial will con-
vince you that they are the very best made.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
la Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
TO iOJESUf'Sr COMPETITION.
WINES *• Bed o,dy « SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Jfco.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted is. Id.
Post Free.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
N
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
ALT 1
ig H ff q
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, In fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT;' Without It you hare a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Proparad only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENQ„
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
11l If BH TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases.
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness.
Special Powerful Double
Boxes, 6s. Courses, 28/6.
Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing: Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALQOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
MANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
LEARN FROM OTHERS’ EXPERIENCE.
The Case of
Mr. E. W. OAVIS.
(By a Sydney Keporter.Y
ft is safe to say that the people
who have the most vital interest in
the following particulars are those who
tind themselves in a similar position
to that occupied some seven years ago
by ftlr. lidwurd Walter Davis, painter,
of lienwick-tieet. Marnckville, who
uddressed these remarks to an inter-
viewer :
"It was whilst i was Jiving at
Leichhardt that I was so ill with
painters' colic, and also rheumatism,
and I can give you my word that for
several months it was a doubtful mat-
ter how things would go with me.
both those complaints at once would
be enough to lull most men, and it
is no exaggeration to. say that they
neatly caused my death. Jdy digestive
organs w ere also in a ten inly bad
way, so that, you see, I was suffering
lrom a serious complication of ail-
ments."
"Lhd you seek medical advice, Mr.
Davis ?’
uh, yes ; 1 saw a doctor, and for
some time remained Unuer ms treat-
ment. which, unfortunately, proved to
be utterly' u.-eless. 1 took enough
medicines to do me good in those
days if they had been of the right
kind, but evidently they were not,
and the agony I was continually suf-
fering was simply intolerable. The
rheumatic pains in my legs had quite
a crippling eliect upon me, for i had to
refrain from moving about as much as
possible because of any exertion ag-
gravating my afflictions. JNearly edl
my joints were as stiff and sore as
could be, so you can imagine how dii-
ficult it was for me to do anything ;
but so far as doing anything was
concerned I hadn t the inclination, for
I felt as if the whole world had closed
its doors against me. in my melan-
choly frame of mind I could see no-
thing excepting in the gloomiest of
colours, and all there seemed in this
life was to struggle hopelessly along
against overwhelming adversities. Mad
1 been told that in a short while 1
was going to die i’m sure it would
have been good news, for i was really
anxious to leave all my unhappiness
behind me.”
“ft seems as if you had come to the
conclusion that you were not going
to get better
“Indeed, I. could think nothing else,
because J could not get even a little
relief. My agonies had me worked up
to such a pitch of exasperation that
if anybody came and spoke to me I
could scat cely be civil to them. And
what foaiful nights 1 put in week af-
ter ween ; frequently no sleep from
the time I went to bed till 1 got up
again next day, and I d like to know
who could have got to sleep if they
hail felt as I did, with the sensation
in my stomach aw a everything was
being drawn up into a knot and then
screwed round and round. Combined
with these afflictions 1 had pains un-
der my heart, which caused me more
anxiety than enough, for what chance
had 1 of ellecting a recovery if L had
heart disease as well, and the way
palpitation occurred made me think
that organ was diseased. This was
not all, though, as my chest had
heavy pains in it which' affected my
breathing, and not a day passed but
what .1 was nearly distracted with a
headache. If I took a small quantity
of food—and my appetite was too
poor to cat much —it simply turned
sour in the stomach and gave rise
to fits of belching, and a feeling as
if 1 wanted to be sick would come bn.
Uh, there was no child’s play about
my illness, and 1 otten say what a
lucky man 1 was ever to get rid of
it.”
“That is what I would like to hear
about. Do you mind telling me?”
Aot at all. 1 am only too glad
for it was such a wonderful affair, as
most of the neighbours round where 1
lived could tell you. They knew Low
t su tiered, and when they saw that 1
was being pulled round they were very
curious to know what was the cause
of it, and 1 told them Clements Tonic
was the medicine that was saving my
life, which was the truth. Besides
what I've already stated, I used to
get feelings of giddiness very often,
and my tongue was never clean, but
covered with slime, and in my mouth
the taste was like bile ; but when 1.
had taken a couple of bottles or so of
Clements Tonic 1 was not a bit like
that, and the old feelings of sickness
alter eating were gone. That was a
good deal to be grateful for, but no-
thing compared to what fo.lowed. 1
used to dream a lot whenever I ob-
tained some sleep, and would wake
uPiyiu terror as if ,L had been dream-
ing of murder or Something equally
bad, but Clements Tonic had such a
calming eliect upon me that when 1
slept 1 did so soundly, and felt as
tresh as> paint when I woke up. My
nerves might have had a lot to do
with those restless nights, for beforo
using Clements Tonic they. used to
twitch dreadfully ; afterwards they
were firm and steady, and the little
involuntary jumps i used to give when
lying down were no longer in evi-
dence. i was not the same man at
all when I had been taking Clements
ionic a few weeks. The acute rheu-
matic pains had. been gradually be-
coming less and less painful, and in
I good tune they di d out altogether.
jSuch a thing; might seem impossible,
but, on my honour, it is true, and
when .1 speak of the colic pains I can
say exactly the same, thing—they were
done away with oy Clements Tonic
once and for all. Many of my work-
mates have reaped the benefit of my
experience, for when I have told them
what cured me they got Clements
ionic for themselves, and they have
always spoken of the results in satis-
factory terms."
'‘And how did your digestive organs
fare
Couldn’t possibly have been made
more healthy than Clements Tonic
made them, which means all the dif-
ference between a life of joy and a
life of sorrow, it meant that my eyes
were no Jongvr heavy and dull as
they had been, and it meant that i
could always eat heartily without fear
of being ill afterwards, ’ for Clemen La
Tonic made my internal organs do
their work more perfectly than ever.
That 1 had got very thin could only
be expected, but under the treatment
of Clements Tonic i soon put on more
flesh than 1 had before my illness, and
the additional strength i acquired was
amazing. My wife was also very ill
once, and Clements Tonic did her a
wonderful amount of good, which
shows that it can be used equally well
by either sex, to whom 1- unfailingly ;
recommend its use when circumstances
require."
“And can we make use of this con-
versation ......
“Undoubtedly. You are welcome to
publish every sentence in any way you
prefer.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. EDWARD WALTER PAVtS. of Renwick-
street, Marrickviile. in the State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing: of five folios and consecutively numbered
from one to live, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my fit-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
lontains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make
iiis solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
g the same to be true, and by virtue of the
rovisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this
f;h day of November, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me,
J. H. BRANSGROVE, J.P.
I
l
l
l
l
l
Ladles’ & Dent’s WATCH ES & CHAINS
Birthday RINGS,
Brooches. Curb Chain Bracelets—FßEE. A
Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs from _<fs to
Don't throw your money away. If vou want
a watch that will equal for time'any solid gold watch
made, send ns your name and address at once, and
we will semi you buxesol our famous ixew l.ife JtClec-
tine Vegetable Pills to sell at i/-a box—a grand remedy
and cure for all weak conditions of the blood, kidney
and liver trouble, a cure for constipation and weak
nervous disorders, a tonic and a life builder. Our
pills are genuine, and are carefully manufactured
from the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send vou the
8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you send' us our
money, 8/-, and we will send you yourprize. Weare
giving these watches and other prizes to quickly in-
troduce our pills, and when you receive your premium
we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand opportunity to get a fine Watca and
Chain Free. Send us your Name and Address at once. You take no risk. |
ELECTIVE MEDICINE CO., Ash St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
ot >ey
**t ea
*2
ARE YOU BALD ?-
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capit.ra. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 1//3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.


¥
V
ER'J
Grandfather
used it over 60
years ago.
Then the children, and now
the grandchildren.
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
The oldest and best remedy
for coughs, colds, bronchi-
tis, and all throat and lung
troubles. Beware imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.'
Purveyors by
Royal Warrant
To His Majesty
The King.
If you require a treat, use
“MOIR’S”
PURE PICKLES
They are absolutely
perfect.
An Inexpensive Table Delicacy
“ EVIOIR’S”
Soup Squares
Rich Soup made in a
few minutes. Try some.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
%/ (Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
Wliilifl
■
DAY
■faSMiiytSjals
a
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
BALSAMIC
*I.IXI R
FOR ASTHMA,
CHROMIC BRONCHITIS,
L COUCHS, COLDS,
OP ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Fr.’co Ocr" 7 ., Pcs'- l ro ..
Xl'Oin Cociilbe i’cckl EoiiUu.i, b.L., Eil^'iaiiU
“For
30 Years
I have used Bonnington’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief."
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
————L?
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINCTON’S.”
Protect your Darling
Babe from Childhood’s infectious diseases
by washing him with
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap.
THE NURSERY SOAP.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
nFIROIIPNF
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
No. 271 H.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr” Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 H.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d.
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, all . . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals..
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pen .it.
Altention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.oiling Ser.es.
Works :
rfirmmngKiam, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Till After Judgment Day.
When I am dead my friends can take
And place me where they will;
Beside some sleepy stagnant lake,
Or ’neith a window-sill;
Or where the mild-eyed, hard-hoofed cows
Will trample o’er my chest—
Just anywhere the Law allows
I’m satisfied to rest.
It matters not to me one jot —but one thing do I
pray :
That I may lie quite undisturbed till after
Judgment Day.
Of course I’d like the night-wind’s sighs
To murmur round my tomb ;
I’d like the bright-winged butterflies
To lighten up the gloom ;
I’d like a row of oyster shells
Placed neatly round the plot ;
I’d like an epitaph that tells
Discreetly that I’m not.
All these are merely trifling whims —but one thing
do I crave:
That Judgment Day will pass away and leave me
in my grave.
My conscience is quite free from guilt—
I don’t dread being sent
To join the simmering souls that wilt
In steamy merriment;
But if I must be tried at all,
I’d like it quietly done,
Without grim crowds, in unstarched shrouds,
Grouped round to watch the fun.
It is no merely idle wish that prompts me when I
say :
Please put me where I’ll miss the Blare announcing
Judgment Day.
I never had the slightest taste
For ceremonial state;
There’s nothing in this gaunt World’s Waste
I so sincerely hate.
The sight of Hell, forsooth, is less
Than hordes of flesh less frames
Arrayed in leering toothlessness.
Now where is he who blames
This earnest prayer, which grim despair keeps
urging me to pray ?
Press tight the sod ’twixt me and God till after
Judgment Day.
vie.
BAMBOO.
Land Monopoly.
Takeiheed of the farmers, how they sow,
And the landlords, how they reap ;
Take heed of the produce the cornfields grow,
And the portion the landlords keep.
Take heed of the struggling men who strive
The long wild winters through ;
And note the drones in thehuman hive
Who scoop when the rent falls due.
Take heed of the foam-flecked teams that pant j
Take heed of the sweat-grimed men,
Who’re trudging in when the moonbeams slant
To a cheerless bag-walled den.
Take heed of the slave-like wives who toil
In the dawnlight, noon and dark ;
Of the eager grab for his share of spoil
By the sharp-tusked legal shark.
Take heed of things like these, and know
That ever must these things be,
While the fertile fields where the Lord’s winds blow
To the people are not free.
VIC.
GEO. BRYANT.
The Last Lover.
“ I thirst, my love ! Let the warm blood flow
Until thy turbulent veins are dry.
Red roses lie on the heart I covet,
As strong wine splashes the lips that love it;
To pledge thee here where the deep drops slow,
I hasten, love; for I heard thy cry.
“ What staunchest thou with thy fingers slight ?
That runneth o’er on thy warm, wet breast—
Strange sap to flow from a milk-white bosom !
And ravest thou in thy grief to lose him ?
Who caged a bird for his sole delight—
To fling it forth from a rifled nest.
“ And one who loved thee passing well—
For whom a strand of thy glistening hair
Were bond enow ! In thy pride forsaken,
He sleeps too deep at thy need to waken,
Who would have clung to the bars of hell
To hold thy hand for a moment there.
“ He spurred his steed till its flanks were dyed
And deep chest laboring brokenly ;
A demon chant in the frenzied rhythm
Of pounding hoofs on the plain went with him—
Was thine the fault when the stallion shied
And flung him prone on a fallen tree ?
“ One knelt by thy pillow, passion pale.
Who fled away through the midnight dim—
Dost thou remember the lonely waking
To moaning surf on the low rocks breaking,
And white sea-foam in the schooner's trail ?
Now nought it matters to thee—or him.
“ One stooped to fondle a fallen rose,
Dropped from a fold on thy scented gown ;
Now crushed and low in the dust it lieth ;
For other rose than thy rose he sigheth—
A bud that odorous, crimson grows.
And thine is gathered and soiled and brown.
“ With two white'passion flowers on thy face—
Meet blossoms these for our bridal bed !
Nay, shrink not, sweet, while thy limbs I cover—
No shame should lie between lo' H n"d lover ;
Anl priests shall mumble above the place
Vv herein we two take our joy," JJeat n said.
N.S.W.
LOLA LIDGE.


KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cv le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu st;on
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MOl/hLS dS2mtO td £ &
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or c lincher A Won Tyies, Inverted Lever Kim
brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
-achedandßehvcred Free
o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-hand Cycles
all makes, « f m n -e
good as new, Sur U to
Great factory clearance sale at ha'f factory pricer.
200
EARN A CYCLE taking orders from_sample
. machine. Active Agents
warned in each district. Large profits easily n ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our tuecnl ", ff'tr , using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. hair prices.
MEAD GYQIE GO. Depr. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen.”
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separatey examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
sar* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHA/1.
JABORINE
SI Jim TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 26, Posted 29. Give it a Tiuai..
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy'
for Coughs and Colds. Of 38 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ Of 38 years’ proven efficacy,
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘ LINUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS ’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
COAGUUNE
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for my new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sano." Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN-. The following- subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Etestro-jtegensratsr
(Patent Secured)
is the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutiqs. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends 'r.
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout t v ,e
entire organisation.
WRITE TO-DAY.
NOISONVI NOBQUfIS
MR.0.3.
ling-
123 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our neyv Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Tiiomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ;F. E Winchcombe, Esq.,
General Manairer and Aerunrv—Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary,
£5OOO DONATED TO
HYPNOTISM.
Dr. X. La Motte Sage, a Noted Scientist, Donates
Five Thousand Pounds to he Used for the
Publication and Free Distribution of a
Valuable Work on Personal Magnetism
and Hypnotic influence.
Wants to Demonstrate the Practical Value and Power
of This New Science in Business, in Society, in
the Home, in Politics, in Love, in Diseases,
and as a Factor in Influencing and Swaying
the Minds of People.
Prominent Business and Professional Men, Ministers
of the Gospel, and Others Heartily Endorse the
Movement—A Noted College Undertakes the
Work of Free Distribution.
Anyone May Get a Book Absolutely Free so Long
as the Edition Lasts and Master the Hidden
Mysteries of This Marvellous Power at His
Own Home—Many Jealously Guarded
Secrets Made Public.
Carnegie is giving away his fortune for libraries.
Dr. X. Xa Motte Sage purposes to put the most
useful hook in all libraries free of charge, right
into the homes of the people. For this purpose he
has just donated £5OOO, and a big publishing house
is busy night and day turning out the books for
ree distribution. The book Dr. Sage wishes to
distribute free of charge is entitled “The Philo-,
sophy of Personal Influence.” It is heartily en-
dorsed by the ablest business men, ministers,
doctors, and lawyers of two continents. It is
beautifully illustrated with the finest half-tone
engravings, and every page is brimful of intensely
interesting and practical information. It is a book
which should be in every home. It is by far the
most remarkable work of the kind that has ever
been written, and it has truly created a sensation
in the book world.
It explains numerous instances in which people
have been secretly and instantaneously controlled
by hypnotic influence. It tells how to learn to
protect yourself from the use of hypnotic power
over you. It tells you how to learn to develop
and use your magnetic power so as to wield a
wonderful influence over those with whom you
come in contact.
Men like Vanderbilt, Morgan, Rockefeller, and
other millionaires have studied the very methods
explained in this book, and have used them in
their business to pile up millions. This book lays
bare secrets in the lives of rich men of which you
have never dreamed. It reveals all the hidden
mysteries of personal magnetism, hypnotism,
magnetic healing, etc., and discloses the reiT
source of power and influence in every walk < f
life. It contains secret information of inestimable
value to every person who wants to succeed in
life. Many of the most prominent public men in
this country have obtained this book, and read
every line, and they are daily using its teachings
to their own profit and gain.
It explains to you the power by which you may
cure yourself and others of all diseases and bad
habits without the aid of drugs or medicines. It
tells of a secret, instantaneous method by which
you may produce a state of insensibility to pain n
any part of the body, so that the teeth may ! e
extracted and surgical operations performed with-
out the use of cocaine, ether, or anaesthetics of
any kind.
It tells how to learn to induce sleep in yourself
or others at any time of the day or night that you
may desire. It tells you of a subtle power by
which you can develop your mental faculties,
improve your memory, eradicate disagreeable
tempers and habits in children, strengthen your
willpower, and rise to a position of prominent e
in vour community. It will truly make you a
leader of men.
If you have not achieved the success to which
your abilities and talents justly entitle you, if you
would like to secure a good paying position, obtain
an increase in salary, if you care to rise higher in
your accepted business or calling, if you desire to
wield a greater influence over others, if you care
to win the love or friendship of someone you
know, or if you long for fame or renown, you
should write for a copy of this remarkable book at
once.
The following extracts from a few of the letters
received from some of the people who have read
the book give an idea of its unusual character and
great value :
Mrs. Mary Milner, 312, D Street, Pueblo, Colo.,
in a recent letter says : “I was so sick and worried
I could not eat or sleep. I used the methods on
myself with wonderful success. To-day lam per-
fectly well. I would not part with the informa-
tion you gave me for any money.”
Mr. T. L. Lindenstruth, 30, East South-street,
Wilkesbarre, Pa., says : “Your work on personal
magnetism is a fortune to anyone starting in life.
It is absolutely sure to bring success.”
A. J. McGinnis, 60, Ohio-street, Allegheny,
Pa., says When I wrote for your book I was
laboring by the day. Now lam managing a busi-
ness. This is certainly the best proof that could
be offered of its great value. I advise every man
who wishes to succeed in life to get a copy at
once.”
G. S. Lincoln, M.D., 101, Crutchfield-street.
Dallas, Texas, writes t “Your methods of per-
sonal influence are marvellous. I have used them
on my patients with wonderful results. They cure
disease when medicine and everything else fails.”
S. It. King, M.D., Gillam, Ind., writes:—
‘‘You have truly sent me the most remarkable
book I have ever read. By the methods explained
in your work headache, backache, rheumatism,
and other diseases of long-standing disappear like
magic. Your instruction in personal magnetism
is simply grand. It gave one a power and an
influence over others which I did not dream it wa:-
possible for the average man to acquire. Youi
book is worth more than gold to anyone starting
II life. Its value cannot be estimated. My only
regret is that t was not in my hands when I was
a young man.”
Ihe New York Institute of Science has under-
taken the free distribution of the book referred
to. Big roller presses are running day and night
t) supply the demand until the £5OOO worth ol
books are distributed free. On account of the
great expense incurred in preparing and printing
t lis book, only those are requested to write for
free copies who are specially interested and really
a:id truly desire to achieve greater success, obtain
more happiness, or in some way better their con-
dition in life.
Please oo not write through mere curiosity, a;
the free edition is limited. If you want a book
write to-day, as the copies are going very fast.
Never before in the history of the publishing
business has there been such a demand for any
book as to-day exists for “The Philosophy of
Personal Influence.”
Remember, at the present time it will be sei t
to your address, absolutely free, postage prepaid
Address a ljd. post-card to the New York Insti-
tute of Science, Dept. 2£m, Rochester, N.Y.
U.S.A.
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung-
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing stamps, to BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
la the Great Engiisn oure lur GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during* their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking* any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 220
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Don’t
waste time in
expert m en ting.
Thirty Years 3
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£ungTonK
to he the WOK CD'S CUBE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can be obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
ihe sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The d ischarge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? if so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neural gia,Coug'hs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
MEDICATOR.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
WOTSCE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy. 1
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdicstue <si Truman, of
71 Old Kent Load, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick 1
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all *
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists <
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman'S NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy* <
all Parasite* of Head or Body. <
SOLD in two sizes, 9d. lit Is. 6d. (
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN'S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur. !
Prepared by Poikgdkstre <fe Truman, !
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. J
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
HR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AC£NCY, Gastlereagh St.,
SYIDISTETT.
NERVOUSNESS. I
LOSS of iSRiKGY and STRENGTH, E
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY. jj
A Gentleman having tried in vain every E
advertised remedy, and at last dis- E
covered a SIMPLE MEANS ol SELF l»
CURE, will forward the same, free of \
charge, to anyone interested. |
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY. |
POLICY for the COMMONWEALT
Price. 6d. : Posted. 8d


r Perspiration and Dust,
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
The Lendon Treatment
FOB THE CUBE OF
ALCOHOLISM and NARCOTISM,
THIS is a GENUINE Up-to-date and
PERMANENT CURE for the Excessive
Use of Drugs, and Drink Habit. This is the
latest and most satisfactory treatment that has
ever been placed before the public of Austra-
lasia, and is in no way connected with the
so-called Gold Cure. Pamphlet containing
full particulars will be sent post free.
Address : H. W. BUTTREY,
Home Bush, Masterton, N.Z
(P.O. Box 121, Masterton, N.Z.)
OME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
:
HOME CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but’ about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new r 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. I)r. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train tiie Horse, Is Cd. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiitsor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiif, Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s (id. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Ciitniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
, How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s Gd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Puislic
Speaking Made Easj, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfaddun’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s Gd. A Life of pleasure, Is Cd.
Lung Complaints, Is Gd. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, fij^ - Established W Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
H°w TO Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Gd.
Aristotle, 3s Gd. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
oecret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Preemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Tokology, 7s Gd post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Gd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s Gd. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. Tiie
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is Gd post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, IGOO illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 101 G pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (w'ords and music com-
plete), Is Gd posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s - Guide,
5s Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of- Boccaccio, lleptamki.on, and many
others, all at 2s Gd each posted. Bride of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 50 i kinds, Is 3d de/, i- \ New Tricks
AviTii Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
Weak Nerved People
< IST
m
This is to people who lack courage, whose nerves are
shaky, whose eyes have lost the sparkle, whose brains are
.muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless, confidence gone,
spirits low, who are hesitating, unable to venture, because
they are afraid of failure, who want somebody to decide for
them. It is to people who have part or all of these symp-
toms of nervousness and want new life, new force. We
offer it to you in the
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
It pours glowing, exhilarating vitality into you while you
sleep; it rejuvenates, animates sluggish circulation, stimu-
lates the brain to activity, and fills the body with life and
ambition.
It furnishes the motive power that runs your body, and
quickly banishes pain. It cures Nervous Disorders, Lum-
bago, Rheumatism, Stomach, Liver, Kidney and Bowel
Troubles, and that Tired Feeling, after every other treat-
ment has failed.
r»iSLir WHEN CURED.
Any honest man or woman, who will secure us, can have our Belt, and pay for it when
cured. Our Belt is better and stronger than any made, and never burns or blisters the flesh.
FREE BOOK.—Our new Illustrated Book tells about our Belt, and how it cures the weaknesses of men
and women. We send it FREE, upon request. WRITE TO-DAY, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept, m.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New, Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving l Testimony's from Grateful Patients.
OjJPfQ[Q ■igM^pggjjfn
w l '' ''iW 1 m
marked
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will forward Free 24 Packets of our
Enamel Tooth Powder ana a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominal price of 6d each. and
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free. The continued systematic use of this
Powder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard arid healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the breath.
We don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders, and we will at
once forward you Free any prize you may select from the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we se?id with the powders. This offer, made fora
littiited period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
made by a Reliable Firm. Remember, our Prizes are not Rolled Gold, Gold Filled,
or Gold Pattern , but
(lIALL MARKED.) SOLID GOLD , (guaranteed.)
Free
Write to>day.:
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY Co. p
A A pITT STREET _ gYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, f.HD
RESTORES EY FLASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLED.
NEVER F-AIL.C.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
"Crackajack
The "Crackajack” illustrated below presents not only the very latest improvements,
but is uaquestionably the best and most beautiful toned Mouth Organ made.
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. The frames
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the reid plates are solid
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through-;,
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass,
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed. It is impossible
to fully describe these
instruments and their
musical qualities.
* Qs •'•/o.C^il- r'%i. f!*L7Z*'-.{-S ■
■>-
t* t ‘ v
p*°
c,**
■\\&
They must be seen
and used to be
appreciated. We
can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
POSTEO TO ANY
ADDRESS IN THE
WORLD FOR 4D.
EXTRA.
Made in Four Styles
No. 1 Grackajack Professional, 40 Reeds 3/-
No. 2 Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds - 21-
No. 3 GraGkajack Junior, 20 Reeds • 1/6-
No. 4 Boss Cracker • • • ll-
ALLAN & CO., 276=278 Collins St., Melbourne.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney, and Adelaide.
THE
‘PLUM’
THE
‘PLUM’
/'jENTLEMEN, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price -f n^e iazor > in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
SOLE agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Hew Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
I_. tc’l.
S "ST ID 3XT E "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of £H EPSXITSTS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKIHS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing,-classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.


130 Kareo-Power Elaotrto Plant, operating' at
The Catlicart Proprietary Cold Mine, Ararat, Victoria.
Ganz & Go.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power ant/
Traction Plants.
BtLE AUSTRALIAN ACENTS—
The Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sis., South Melbourne. LTD -
“ Unhappy is the home, I ween,
That lacks a box of Laxatine.”
LAXATINE
Is both a luxury and a necessity.
Is pleasant to take and easy to buy.
Is impossible to equal as a ready
remedy for irregularities.
A small doss does a lot of good. All Chemists, Is. box.
It, is unquestionably a peerless aperient; and no medicine chest could be
considered complete without a supply of this delectable, lollie-like LOZENGE ,
.
V- y
'M
V,
ah
(WW$
mu
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
THE ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
IT is well known that the climate of Sydney is delightful in winter, ,but it is not so well known
that the Blue Mountain air is best of all—crisp, bracing atmosphere, sometimes frosty,
sometimes snowy, but stm, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
is a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor; baths and
massage; most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required ; an entertainer for general
amusement; a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU;
GO, IF YOU WANT A SPELL; or
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe? Plenty of you
business-men are making money at the expense of your health. Spend a little on your health as
a good investment. ,
TERMS—From &1 2s. upwards.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., Ac.
Sole Agent for Australasia:
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
Has been recommended by some of
the vOorld’s most eminent authorities
during the last Quarter of a centurtf
For
122
t W ch 3
R
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given W/th Each Watch.
v& B9 \\ 'Bag
\B*‘ \V 1892 fl '®6 2
Estab-
-1750.
f /
s>
m
HisM:®
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards.
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applica
tion to The Manager.
SILOS.
AIR-TIGHT AND DAMP-PROOF.
Preserving Ensilage is a subject of serious
importance to the man on the land. Unless
the Silo is damp-proof and air-tight the
silage will be ruined. Insulate with
GIANT
GIANT PAPER
it meets every requirement.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Imagination*
Astronomers tell us that only 3000 stars are
visible to the naked eye. We have not counted
them, and don’t feel inclined to call those mid-
night watchers liars, but we know ot some men
who always see about 10 million stars in the way
of business opportunities. Optimism is a good
thing provided you don’t get drunk on it and see
double. The most successful business men have
only seen a few opportunities, but they have not
only seen them but taken hold and built on
them. The non-successful man has seen about 10
million, but has never taken advantage of his eye-
sight. That has nothing to do with white ants ;
but Avenarius has. Shrewd, able, calm, calcula-
ting men have built a house which, in the building,
was intended to last a lifetime, but after a few
years white ants have been discovered, and those
slow but sure workers have eaten the foundations
from ijt. They are in the joists, floors, studs and
walls. Had Avenarius, the white ant preventor
and exterminator, been used, not one of those
silent workers would have put in an
appearance. Reader, do you live in a wooden
house? Are you building a wooden house? Are
you fencing ; or building a stable ? If either, write
to E. Rich & Co., Ltd., about Avenarius.
Ruberoid has a mission. That mission is to
shelter the world. Every year brings it nearer to
accomplishment. Its first use was for roofing
cottages. To-day palatial mansions are roofed
with Ruberoid Roofing.
TOBACCO SHEDS
The Secret cf Drying
the Leaf Properly. ..
On account of its moisture-proof
qualities, as well as the evenness of
temperature under it*
RUBEROID
is being used extensively for the
roofs and sides of Tobacco Sheds.
Growers know that the secret of
tobacco-drying is to have their sheds
built almost entirely of
RUBEROID.
E. RICH <& CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.
Human Nature.
Walking down Pitt-street the other day, I met
Mr. Andrew Anderson, and I told him that on
the Monday evening previous I had taken a run
out to South Head to look over the lighthouse.
He said : “ Had I known you were going I would
have gone with you.” I replied that the trip must
be quite a common one for him. “ No,” he said,
“ I have been living in Sydney for 10 years, and
have never been to South Head.”
What a peculiarity it is with men not to be able
to enjoy the little pleasures at their doors. Here
was a man who had been living almost on the
tram line for ten years, and yet had not visited
South Head. It is wonderful what a careful
analysis of immediate surroundings will reveal in
the form of neighborhood possibilities.
Think of this with Anchor Fence. If your farm
is not fenced with Anchor Fence, the next farm,
or the one next to it is, for it is difficult to travel
many miles in any part of Australia without find-
ing a block of land sprouting Anchor Fence. A
list of the pastoralists whose runs are enclosed
with Anchor Fence would be a directory of the
most successful squatters in Australia. The big-
gest tree falling on Anchor Fence cannot damage
it. Remove the tree and the fence springs back
into position. It won’t burn, consequently bush
fires cannot affect it. Stock cannot injure it, nor
can it injure stock. Take it all round it is a fence
worth owning. E. Rich and Co., Ltd., are the
agents.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1332.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 34, 1905.
Price 6n.
GOING TO LAW.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers pro poses going to the High Court with Premier Deakin on 14 points re the Federal Capital. The Court will
presumably meet on the proposed site of the Capital so as to be able to take in the details of the case,' and doubtless (as there will be two
Treasuries to draw fees from) a strong Bar will be engaged.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the A astral hens.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.*
214 George-street North, Sydney, N,S. Wales.
Published once a wßek.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS]
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By tending direct to The Bulletin OJfi.ce Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin vested
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Hotv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
o/ficials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
> The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specialty
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. ,
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. iVill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it. is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. lllacle and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit, and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
Will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but, unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from, Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs.lt. A. Thompson Ss Co., 28 Riebeck Street., Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver . —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
HongKon a.—Brewer and Co., « Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong .
Shanguai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lfdn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“Posters” will be attached to agents’ parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they will be displayed.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 24, 1905.
A FEDERAL BANKING- BILL.
Australia is just now in the curious position of
having John Forrest, of Westralia, for its
Treasurer. There are many things that John
Forrest doesn't know, but his ignorance of finance
is commonly supposed to almost amount to genius.
And there is reason to believe that the large gen-
tleman from Westralia knows well enough that
he is a square peg in a round hole, and only
accepted his present billet because he is in the
habit of accepting billets, and because he didn’t
feel that he would be anymore circular a peg in
any other hole. A few days ago he was asked if
he had any intention of bringing in a Banking
Bill this session, and the alarm and horror with
which he washed his hands of all responsi-
bility for so intricate a measure were amus-
. ing. Yet Australia badly—very badly— wants a
Banking Act constructed on sensible lines; it
wants such an Act much more than it wants a
great many things that loom more conspicuously
on various political programmes. George Turner,
during his last spell at the national cash-box, col-
lected some materials fora Bill, but it wasn’t the
Turner of 1894—the strong man who loved to
seize big difficulties with both hands—who did
this; it was the worn, ageing, perfunctory Turner,
who felt that most things were vanity, and the
ideas of this Turner tended towards bringingabout
uniformity with the least possible disturbance of
existing methods. But existing methods require
to be disturbed a good deal to produce the best
results, both for the banks and for the community.
Unluckily, the Deakin party has put up a Trea-
surer who takes little interest in finance. The
Labor party has very little finance on its pro-
gramme. And the Reid party has fallen back
into an antediluvian condition of fossildom, and
is too much guided by the valuable financial ex-
perience of Bruce Smith to look very hopeful at
present.
• • * *
In suggesting some possible features of a new
Banking Act, The Bulletin leaves out the ques-
tionof a national Bank—the Bank of Australia.
That is another problem. But when the really
National institution comes to pass, it would be
doubtful policy to make it a completely new bank.
It would pr.obably be much better to buy up some
existing banks as a nucleus—not the best ones
which can stand on their own bases, but the
derelicts, which are better out of the way, and
whose existence is a bad advertisement for Aus-
tralia. This would mean taking half-a-dozen for-
lorn concerns off the market, and would prevent
the Bank of Australia making a very serious addi-
tion to a competition which is already much too
great. It would also mean the acquisition, at a
comparatively cheap rate, of a very large business
—a very bad business in the present incompetent
private hands, but one which, with the Federal
G-overnment’s credit and capacity behind it, and
with only one management to support instead of
five or six, would probably become immensely
profitable to the Government. But dealing only
with private institutions The Bulletin’s idea of
the leading features of an Australian Banking
Act would be somewhat as follows :
* * * *
(1) No new bank to be allowed to start with a nominal
capital of less than £500,000 and with a paid-up capital
(or a capital to be paid up in cash within the first six
months of the bank’s existence) of less than £lOO,OOO.
(2) All banks’ accounts to be audited and securities in-
spected, and, as far as possible, valued, at least once a
year by Federal officials appointed for the purpose.
Special audits to be provided for in special cases. Any
bank which has made such losses as to reduce the
shareholders’ funds to less than £lOO,OOO to receive notice
that it must, within three months, call un sufficient new
capital to make at least £lOO,OOO, and dividends to be
suspended until this is done. Any bank which fails to do
this, or which is absolutely insolvent, to be either wound
up or, if the Federal auditors believe it can be nursed
back into solvency, taken charge of by the Government
until it has become solvent, as the Maoriland Government
did with the B.N.Z. The Government to have power to
wind up if, after taking charge, the case proves hopeless.
Any. advances made by the Government during the
nursing process to carry interest and to be a first charge
on the assets.
(3) Banks which are now practically insolvent (if the
State does not take them over as the nucleus of the Bank
of Australia) to be exempted from the winding-up provi-
sion provided that the official audit shows a steady
progress back towards solvency. In case of any retro-
gression, these banks to be either wound up at once or
taken charge of by the State, which may wind them up
later if it finds the case hopeless. When these crippled
banks get back to a solvent condition all the usual rules
to apply to them. No dividends to be paid beyond such
as the institution may be already pledged to until solvency
is attained, and even dividends to which the bank
is pledged to be paid only when they don’t absorb over 60
per cent, of net profits.
(4) Every bank to carry at least 40 per cent, of its net
profits, as certified by the Government auditor, to reserve
fund until the reserve fund fully equals the paid-up
capital. After that, to carry at least 20 per cent, of its
net profits to reserve fund until the reserve equals £l5O
for every £lOO of paid-up capital. Also to carry at least
20 per pent, of its net profits to reserve fund until the
shareholders funds (paid-up capital and reserves) equal at
least 25 per cent, of all liabilities to the public At
least half of the reserve fund to be invested in Australian
public securities (of any State or of the Commonwealth)
on which securities the States and the Commonwealth
must pledge themselves not to reduce the interest, on
renewal of the loans, below 3 per cent.
* * * *
(5) Furthermore the public securities held by each bank
(either as part of !ts reserve fund or outside its reserve
fund) to be sufficient to cover its current note issue, and
sufficient public securities to cover its note issue to be
deposited with the Australian Government. On this
basis the Australian Government can undertake payment
of all notes in case of a suspension. (This and the
succeeding five clauses are inserted on the assumption
that private note issues would continue, which seems
most probable.)
(6) Note issues to be limited only by the amount of
public securities deposited with the Australian Govern-
ment. The Government, in time of crisis, to have power
to authorise the temporary issue of notes against other
forms of good security, and to make notes legal tender
(7) Notes to be compulsorily convertible into gold onlv
at the bank’s chief office in each State. (As this proviso
might make a small branch—say at Berth—liable for the
payment of a huge batch of notes—one quite beyond its
means—issued by the head office—say at Sydney—it
should be further provided that the bank can demand
reasonable notice before cashing large parcels of its
notes issued in another State.) As notes would be practi-
cally guaranteed by the Australian Government no hard-
ship would be inflicted on note-holders.
(8) Note-tax of 1 or 1J per cent.
(9) Notes to be good at their face value in any State as
well as in the State of issue.
(10) No bank to issue notes that are not reasonably
clean and in fair order. J
(11) Every bank to hold not less than 40 per cent, (or
possibly 50 percent.) of its cash reserves in notes issued
by the Australian Government. (This would give the
Government command of, say, £8,000,000 in cash.)
(12) The Australian Government to hold a gold reserve
equal to 25 per cent, of the paper thus issued (probably
£2,000,000) always on hand to meet the demands of any
bank which, through the reduction of its cash reserves
was in a position to (and wished to) demand gold for a
portion of its Federal notes.
(13) The Australian Government to invest 50 per cent
of the amount received from the banks in return for
paper money (probably £4,000,000) in the purchase of
State securities (of any State), and this amount to accu-
mulate at compound interest, the interest b ing devoted
to the purchase of further State securities. The fund
thus created to answer two purposes—as a security for
the Australian Government’s notes issued to the banks
and as a Public Debt Sinking Fund. (When the State
debts are wholly or partly taken over by the Australian
Government, the Sinking Fund securities would, of course
become partly, or wholly, Federal securities.)
(14) The other 25 per cent, (probably £2,000,000) re-
ceived by the Australian Government in exchange for
notes to be applied to the acquisition of a Federal terri-
tory and the construction of a Federal capital. Any sur-
plus to be put into the Sinking Fund abovementioned
Any deficit to be made good as the Australian Parliament
thinks best, but not by diverting money from the Sinking
Fund. All net rents or net profits derived from the
Federal territory to go into the Sinking Fund.
* * * *
(15) Fifty per cent, extra income-tax to he levied on
foreign shareholders in Australian hanks. (This would
have to be part of a general absentee-tax scheme, and
would necessitate making the income-tax a Federal
impost.)
(16) Every bank which is merely a branch of some
institution having its principal business outside the Com-
monwealth to be required to keep its Australian business
separate from its outside business, to maintain sufficient
funds and investments in the Commonwealth to meet all
Australian liabilities, and to keep a certain proportion of
its capital (according to the amount of its business) in-
vested in the Commonwealth. Its Australian creditors to
have a first claim on the funds and investments in the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
The Bulletin advocates these propositions as a
protest against the tired attitude of George
Turner, who holds that there should be as little
change as possible in the banking system, and the
alarmed attitude of John Forrest, who appa-
rently regards banking legislation as something
beyond a man of his mental calibre. In drafting
them six purposes have been kept in view
(1) To prevent the recrudescence of the bogus or boom
bank.
(2) To make Australian banks the most solvent, solid
and reputable set of banks on earth.
(3) To make the Australian banks also Australian-
owned banks.
(4) To encourage the use of paper-money. Australia’s
extensive circulation of gold is a costly extravagance
on the part of a country which owes over £300,000 000 of
gold publicly and privately to foreign creditors, and is
paying heavy interest thereon.
(5) To use part of the surplus gold—the people’s money
not the banks’ money—in creating a fund for the steady
and continuous reduction of the Public Debt (this fund
should also be largely supplemented out of taxation).
(6) To encourage the conversion of the country’s foreign
debt into a local debt. The proviso about the holding "of
half the banks’ reserve funds in public securities aims at
this, and the same rule should be made to apply to insur-
ance and many other companies.
The most stringent of the proposed clauses are
not new, but are taken bodily (especially the one
which compels the holding of a large proportion
of the cash reserves in Government paper) f om
a Canadian law of many years standing—ft law
passed by a bitterly Tory* but still, in some re-
spects, a reasonably common-sense Government,
there are no Socialistic ideas on the list herein
given, unless it is Socialistic for a bank to be sol-
vent, and revolutionary to reduce the Public Debt.
Ihe proposals are in no sense Labor proposals,
though, in The Bulletin’s opinion, they ought to
be, and though many foolish old bigots take it for
granted, without inquiry, that they are ; Labor
leader Watson has expressed his approval of some
of the ideas here outlined, but the bulk of his fol-
lowing shows no interest in them, no knowledge
of them, and little desire for knowledge. The
scheme is advanced as something which may
fairly be considered without any party throwing
curses at any other party ; without anybody flying
on handle to talk about the Petriana lie,
or the Six Hatters joke ; without Joe Cook snarl-
ing about Socialism, or Bruce Smith getting
tangled up in frantic proposals for the introduc-
tion of Cmnamen. It aims at the stoppage of
waste, leakage and insolvency, at the reduction of
the country’s public liabilities, and at the enrich-
ing of the country and the people in it—including
Bruce Smith and his political brother Pumpkin,
?I S M'Millan, Conroy, Cameron and
M Cay— by discouraging the tendency that the
country s assets have of being owned by other
people outside. And to denounce these aims as
Socialistic is a very bad advertisement for Toryism.
ASSISTED IMMIGRATION.
The Bulletin receives this letter from Dr.
Richard Arthur, member of N. S. W. Assembly
Since we are at one re Assisted Immigration, why dis-
semble your love to the length of kicking me downstairs ?
heedTets n isr A° R L ? WUlg a vain t,,Umpet t 0 a deaf and
If Australia is in deadly danger, we cannot afford to
°T th e ways and means of her salvation.
What though my doxy differ in some degree from yours
if I be sound in the essentials of the faith ?
To develop my policy, suffer me to be Autocrat of all the
Austrahas for five minutes. All Parliaments shut down
I run the continent m\ self. ’
Finance : Raise £5,000,000 extra taxation by bringing
themcome-tax in all States up to Is. or Is. 3d.'; landdax
to -,d., and get the balance through the customs. Borrow
ditto, getting it locally if possible, but getting it anyhow,
i° r posterity has to shoulder some of the burden incurred
for their benefit. British Government to oe tapped for
some millions also, for a free and powerful Australia
would be the pivot of the Empire.
Immigration : Crown lands to be. divided into living
areas, blocks to be granted free, but bearing a tax on
unimproved values after five years.
al .'? as " 7 ith first to be in North Queensland,
the Northern Territory, and North Westralia, and along
aI , -j ee strate B' ic railways from Brisbane to Normanton
Adelaide to Port Darwin, and Adelaide to Perth, which
are all to be rushed forward. Nothing to be gained by a
larger population if you must concentrate it in the south-
east corner of the continent. Climate splendid on the
Herberton plateau and the table lands of the Northern
territory. There is where I would run the people in pell-
mell from every part of Europe, selecting them carefully
ft the port of departure, and mixing them on arrival, so
that there would be no colonies of particular nationalities
Tree passages, free land, and monetary help if necessary
and, per contra, a land-tax, and two weeks military
training*. Agricultural colleges in every centre.
Defence : Universal service. One vear of either mili-
tary or naval training, and then a fortnight a year after-
wards. J
Factories for big and small arms and ammunition at
Lithgow, foremen being imported from Birmingham, and
the Greusot and Krupr works ; naval yard at Melbourne
as safer than Sydney, for torpedo-boats and, later on
cruisers and battle-ships.
One or two first-class fortresses to be formed in Northern
Australia, and the fortifications of all the capital cities
brought up to date.
Maoriland to be urged to follow on same lines, and
guaranteed help if attacked.
That is what should be done. What we will do, time
alone will show, hut it may be in the way of hiring
Colonel Bell to calm our foolish fears, and restore the
blessed security of the good old days.
In reply to which The Bulletin is with Dr.
Arthur as to the need for land settlement (but
not land settlement only),'and as to the building
of the three great railways—Brisbane to the Gulf
of Carpentaria, Adelaide to Port Darwin, and
Adelaide to Perth, and it also hopes to see these
supplemented by a line from the Gulf to Perth.
Likewise it is with him as to assisted immigration,
as to arms factories, as to universal training, and as
to building our own fleet. For the lest it kicks Dr.
Arthur downstairs just as cordially as ever, on
the ground that, just by reason of the rottenness
of the financial methods by which he seeks to bring
these things about, and the want of an industrial
basis to support the scheme, the whole business
would end in ridiculous failure.
* * *
The scheme is, apart from the supply of a speck
of work, and that not self-supporting work, in
arms and ammunition factories and in yards where
warships are built, wholly a scheme of land settle-
ment. Every country that depends mainly on
agriculture is a poor country—generally a desper-
ately poor country. Australia would be poorer
than the average because its land is not of the
best, the rainfall is uncertain, and because, if it
has to sell its grain to the men who manufacture
for it in Manchester instead of to the men who
manufacture for it in Adelaide, Melbourne,
Sydney, Bathurst, Armidale, Ballarat, Bourke,
Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, and so on’
its produce will be so loaded with charges and
expenses that the business will always remain
poverty-stricken. Even now agriculture only
struggles along in N.S.W.—which is as good a
State as the average—by the aid of stupendous
indirect subsidies. The size of them can be
roughly estimated by looking at one or two items
from the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners’ report
for year to J une, 1904 :
Subsidy to
Charge Nos. I '& 2
per ton as compared
Ton for 100 with No. 3
Miles. Miles. (roughlv).
(1) Grain, flour, &e.
(up-journey only) 98,877,437 3s. lid. £1,400,000
(2) Hay, straw, chaff 22,146,172 3s. 2d. 321,000
(3) Most manufac-
tured goods .. 29,503,927 325. 2d.
And this is saying nothing of the fact that agri-
culture in N.S.W. is almost wholly exempted
from local rates. Yet, with all this subsidy,
which has to be made up by charging excessive
rates on manufactured goods, by taxation to make
up the railway deficit, and by misappropriation of
loans, the agricultural industry yields to the
people employed in it little more than half the
amount that manufactures pay to their employees.
And if agriculture grows without any corres-
ponding growth of other industries, the other
industries won’t be able to stagger under the
burden of the subsidy; the parasite will grow
bigger than the host.
* * * *
Neither Australia nor any other mainly agri-
cultural country can bear up under the load of
bringing out, on a very large scale, at the public
cost, purely agricultural settlers, many of whom
would have to be supported for a year or more,
and exempted from taxes for a year or more, in
addition to having their passages paid ; and
who would, under present conditions, have
to be subsidised all their lives afterwards by
having their pioducts carried far below cost of
carriage. It would burst; its immigration scheme
would burst; and its loans would probably end in
financial burst. Canada can try these immigration
devices, for Canada, under High Protection, is push-
lng 1 its manufactures ahead even more vigorous]y
than its agriculture. It is providing a larger and
larger market for its agriculturists close at hand,
and bringing the consumer to their doors, instead
of borrowing money so that it may pay a large
part of the cost of carrying their produce to the
distant consumer; Canada isn’t borrowing • it is
even reducing its debt and building a big railway
out of revenue; & J
* * * *
Australia doesn’t want to borrow any more,
having loaded posterity already with
id UOO.OOO a year of interest on unproductive
debt, and sold and spent over £100,000,000 worth
ot trie public estate, which belongs to posterity as
much as it does to us, it is sheer insolence to pro-
pose to borrow more on the plea that “posterity
has to shoulder some of the burden.” As far as
repayment is concerned, posterity has all the
burden, and all the loss, too. Nor should Australia
go crawling to Britain—already far more heavily-
taxed than we are—for assistance. It is time for
this country to rely on itself. And there is no
need to rake every country m Europe for immi-
grants and make this a polyglot land where half
the people may not have had time to acquire a
national spirit before the day comes when only a
ru v national spirit can pull us through. Aus-
tralia doesn't need to rope in Croats, and Bosnians,
and Basques, and Bohemians, and the like. Britain
fo,^nnn nyea i> to the United States alone,
about .L50,°00 emigrants, all of the British race,
and ail persons who paid their own passages and
paid a fee for admission (after rigid examination)
to Uncle bAMS highly-protected country. Aus-
tralia cam get most of these and many more like
them with a little assistance, and provided it has
work to offer them. But experience has shown that
while there is nothing to offer except a poorly-
paid agricultural industry, dependent for its ex-
tension on a market 16,000 miles away, this
country will get practically no immigrants except
those it pays for, and the ones it pays foi
will speedily commence to drift away again. It is
a case of begging and borrowing and pouring
water into a sieve. Queensland alone has spent
within a fraction of £3,000,000 of loan money upon
immigration, and trusted almost entirely to the
land—the blessed old land—to support the new
arrivals, and Queensland is a poor object
lesson to-day. But Australia, as a solvent, honest
country where every industry was expanding, as
lu. j* case with the United States, could get mul-
titudes of immigrants in addition to those it has
to pay for—immigrants who would be good wage-
earners, tax-payers, and bearers of a share of the
national burdens from the week they land.
* * » .
So The Bulletin respectfully kicks Dr. Arthur
downstairs (to use his own words) as a man who
has gone back in haste to an exploded superstition,
who has, backslid on the great question of national
honesty, and who is using the need for popu-
lation as one more excuse for resuming the
old loan disease in a worse form than before.
1-his country can’t raise enough or borrow enough
to buy all the population it needs for its defence,
to give the new arrivals land, to keep them till
their land becomes productive, to build railways,
for them—especially as they would have to be
exempt from taxes for a long while and wouldn’t,
help much to pay for the railways, and especially as.
the land revenue would have greatly diminished
through giving away the soil gratis; and finally it;
can’t afford to carry their produce over these rail-
ways at far less than cost. For on railways that
are built out of loans, and that have heavy interest,
to pay, cost is a serious item. The immigration-
policy which is based wholly on settling people on!
the land in a country situated as Australia is lasts-
just as long as the loans last, and then dies. Then,
there is the debt, the incredible railway deficit,,,
the smash, and the exit of the new population!
Nothing but the establishment of an abundance
of wholly self-supporting industries, of a much
better paying and less precarious class than agri-
culture in a drought-cursed land, will meet the
case. Australia is in deadly danger and wants
salvation. The trouble is that Dr. Arthur’s
scheme doesn’t offer salvation—it only offers the
old bankruptcy repeated.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Lands Scandals.
W hen The Bulletin last reviewed the proceed
ings before the N.S.W. Lands inquiry Commis-
sion, Mr. Willis had been shown to have received
£34,928 4s. 3d. in fees, generally for getting land
gazetted and leased as improvement areas— i.e., at
a very low rent and under practically the least
onerous of all conditions of tenure. But very
little direct light had been thrown on the issue as
to whether this money was paid by squatters and
financial institutions because they thought that
Mr. Willis had wonderful naturalpporersw r ers of per-
suasion, or because they reckoned that he would
have to disburse a good deal of it in order to secure
for them what they wanted. That issue is
really the kernel of the inquiry. Was Mr.
Willis paid so enormously for his magnetic
powers alone, or because it was understood that
he was, to a great extent, only the channel
through which the money flowed'? The Com-
mission has, so far, not attacked that problem.
But the evidence since the beginning of August
has been marked by many sensational develop-
ments. Out of the investigation of the J. B.
Stephens leases a criminal charge has been made
by the Crown. The proceedings of the Com-
mission have been enlivened by the appear-
ance of Mr. Pilcher, K.C., as cross-examiner.
A remarkable case investigated, which in-
volved some new features, was that of the
Willie Improvement Lease. The Willie holding
was occupied by W. C. Hill. On his urging it
was thrown open for improvement lease. He
tendered. J. Reinhardt also tendered at a
higher price. W. C. Hill was not given the
option of coming up to that price, though it had
been previously stated before the Commission
that the tenant was given that Option as a matter
of fixed policy. J. Reinhardt secured the lease.
His name had cropped up before in the Lands
Department in connection with W. N. Willis.
In this lease matter he does not seem to have
appeared at all. A solicitor was appointed
by W. N. Willis to represent Reinhardt,
and this solicitor received the notices and
carried on the correspondence with the Lam's,
Department in re Reinhardt as directed
by Willis, but not without some protests.
Shortly after Reinhardt got the lease W. ]\ T ~
Willis transferred it for a consideration of £Tb7T
to W. C. Hall. The money was paid to Willis.
Lvidence brought before the Commission pointed'
to applications being made in several cases for
land rights by persons who, if they had any real
existence, never appeared, and had no other ad-
dress than c/o a land agent. That Mr. Willis
was not the only land agent of big fees i# beg a..


ning to be clear. Senator Millen bagged one fee
of £lOOO. Petek Close, it lias been shown,
had £6OO, £9OO, and £1250 out of different trans-
action*. Various Members of Parliament have
had small pickings. A list of the names of mem-
bers and ex-members of Parliament who have been,
so far, mentioned before the Commission as having
received money directly for land-agency transac-
tions, or having received money from Willis, or
other land agents, for legai or other services, in-
clude—
Hon. J. H. Oarruthbrs, Premier of N.S.W.
Hon. B. B. O’Conor., Minister for Education, N.S.W.
W. N. Willis, M.L.A.
R. D. Meagher, M.L.A.
E. M. Clark, M.L.A.
P. J. Clara, M.L.A.
E. A. Byrne, M.L.A.
E. Richards, M.L.A.
R. Scobie, M.L.A.
Hugh Macdonald, M.L.A.
Senator Millen.
Three of these are, or were, members of the
N.S.W. State Labor party. Mr. Willis is still
incomparably the greatest of land agents, accord-
ing to the evidence. His account now seems to
stand :
Brought forward (B. 3/8 ’O5) £34,928
BrourDonald Grant (Illiwa) 'MO
„ W. C. Hill (Willie) 1,677
~ A. D. Wiseman (Brewon) 585
~ Tiios. Dent (West Gungahnan and Wangre-
wally) , .. .. .. ~ .. 1,700
~ John Campbell (Waterloo) 80
~ William Dickson (Ginghet and Yarrslwin).. 1,500
£40,080
♦
Land Agoncy.
The public, without being unduly suspic.ous, can
conjecture that the so far disclosed heavy pay-
ments made by improvement lessees to land
agents were partially disbursed in quarters not
yet fully disclosed. But the public so far does
not seem to be seized with any proper idea of the
vast financial interests involv d in this “improve-
ment lease ” business. The closing of lands —con-
tained in expired grazing leases—against closer
settlement, by granting improvement leases, has
been excused on the ground that valuable im-
provements had been effected during the tenancy,
and that these areas were necessary during the
drought for the salvation of the few sheep
remaining to the tenants. But there can be
no excuse for blocking settlement by the
granting of improvement leases —in the teeth
of the original tenants and of applicants
for small areas—to outsiders and strangers.
Indeed the value of any excuse which might be
made is discounted in advance by the fact that
some at least of these persons have made no other
use of their leases when acquired than to hand
them over to others whose dummies they were,
while others have traded them away, almost
in open market, It is a matter of notoriety
that one lease (which has net yet come
before the Commission) changed hands for an
equivalent of 14s. per acre —equal to a sum total
of £35,000 on an area of 50,000 acres. If it be
supposed that this lease were obtained on the
usual land-agency terms of Is. per acre, the profit
accruing to the temporary holder would be
£32,500. In the last resort the public has to pay
that sum—and a good deal more. Rentals for im-
provement leases seem to vary between 3d. and 4d. ;
per acre per annum. Take 4d. as the figure.
Witnesses have appraised much of the land let on
improvement leases at a sale value of from £1 to
£3 per acre. The capital value of land leased at
4d. per acre is more nearly akin to ss. per acre.
Of land worth £1 per acre, rental should be 16d.
per acre per annum ; of land worth £3, rental
should be 4s. per acre per annum. Therefore the
lessee who rents 50,000 acres at 4d., land being
really worth lGd., pays a total rental of £833 6s. Bd.
instead of £3333 Os. BcL, and thus saves £2500 a
year. If the land be worth £2, he pays 4d. an acre
instead of 2s. Bd., and therefore saves annually the
difference between £833 6s. Bd. and £6666 13s. 4d.
If the land be worth £3, his saving lies between the
payment of £833 6s. Bd. and £lO,OOO per annum.
Should he have a 21 years’ lease (some have a cur-
rency of 28 years), the first-named difference would
represent a loss to the State and a saving to the
lessee of £52,500 at the end of that period. The
second difference, during a similar term, would be-
equivalent to a loss to the State of £122,500. The
third difference would entail a loss to the State
and a saving to the lessee of £192,500. These
figures make it clear why such gigantic commis-
sions are readily paid for sqpuring improvement
leases-at re-assessed rentals ; why cash advances of
£5OOO are eagerly offered by financial institutions
as soon as the leases are signed ; and why leases
obtained on such easy terms are marketable at a
transfer value of 14s..per acre, As leases to the
extent of nearly 10,000,000 acres have expired in
the Central Division alone since 1894, and as the
improvement lease provision became law a year
later, it is evident that of late the opportunities
of earning high fees and of trafficking in improve-
ment leases have been practically unlimited.
With a possible swindle on 10,000,000 acres, and
the swindle running as high as 3s. Bd. per acre per
annum, it is a very large possible swindle indeed.
♦
Australia’s Life Policy.
Australia looks on from a distance, and is rather
sorry for America, where life assurance business
can get into the trouble that is now raging round
the great Equitable office. But what is Aus-
tralia’s own position ? If it thinks it is protected
because four-fifths of its business is done with
mutual offices it is most likely making a bad
mistake. In theory the directors of a mutual
office represent, and are elected by, the policy-
holders ; in practice they are almost always the
nominees of “the office.” The cases in which a
candidate who lacked the support of “the
office” has been elected a director of any
leading Australian mutual society can almost be
numbered on the thumb of one hand. It is true
that, if things go wrong, or seem to go wrong,
and the policy-holders can be aroused, they can
do what they please'; but “the office” has an
enormous pull, and the chances are that some-
thing very serious—something almost ruinous—
would have to happen before the policy-holders
would be aroused. It is possible, therefore,
for the same things to happen in connection
with a mutual office as are alleged to have hap-
pened in connection with a proprietary office, like
the Equitable. The Equitable, moreover, has
always had to face an annual State audit and
inspection. The Insurance Department is
required to make an independent valuation
of the policy obligations of every office doing
business in its jurisdiction, so that the public may
see whether the sworn assets are sufficient for their
purpose. Further, not only has the value of these
assets to -be sworn to by the directors, but the
American law restricts loans on real estate to 50
per cent, of its value, and the funds may not be
invested in securities not sanctioned by the
Department. Sydney Daily Telegraph had to
admit the other day, in spite of its objection to
State supervision, that the State certificate “told
the policy-holders what was the actual value of
the investments held in trust for them.’ What
the certificate obviously couldn’t do was to tell
them how much better' those, investments might
have been if the directors had sold them to the
society at the price at which they bought
them. Hence, says the Telegraph, “it is
evident that such companies must be placed
under strict regulations, which hitherto United
States legislators have failed to provide.” The
Telegraph reckons that United States regulation
is not strict enough ; yet it is ten times more strict
than Australian regulation, about which the
Telegraph says nothing. This clear perception
of the necessity for virtue in New York is very
touching. The N.S.W. Statistical Bulletin
for July shows that offices doing business in
N.S.W. have outstanding policies (with bonus addi-
tions) amounting to £125,299,647 ; yet, in spite of
this vast business, N.S. W. has no special life-assur-
ance law whatever. There is hardly another matter
of greater importance than this ; yet the N.S.W.
insurer is protected neither by the State nor
by the mutual system upon which he has been led
to rely as a sufficient safeguard. Moreover, the
enormous importance which has been attached to
bonuses in Australia has constituted a danger
of its own. It has prompted directors
to use up all, or nearly all, their re-
sources and prospective resources in making
additions to policies, leaving little or nothing by
way of reserve against anything unexpected in the
way of calamity. Reckoning in the paid-up capi-
tal of the proprietary offices and every other form
of reserve, the offices doing business in N.S. Wales
had, at the end of last year, only just 3 per cent,
more than enough to cover their bonus arid policy
obligations—only 3 per cent, to provide for pos-
sible unfavorable mortality experienoe, as well as
for slumps in securities, &c. Even allowing that
the present rate of earnings is higher than the
assumed rate, the margin of 3 per cent, is still
uncomfortably small. It is so small, in fact, as to
call loudly for a regular official assurance that it is
a safe margin—moreover, that it is a margin
which actually exists.
The Sleepy City’s Tram Syndicate.
The seemingly endless trouble over Adelaide’s
tram system has crawled on another hair’s-breadth
The position up to a week or so back was that the
Government had given the companies notice to
come to arbitration as to the price to be paid for
the lines, Parliament having authorised the
Government to buy, not with the object of run-
ning the system itself, but with the fool notion of
skurrying around and finding a syndicate to do it.
Tortoise Town jobbed away its tramway rights to
syndicates in the first place, and got about the
most awful system in the world in return ; and
for years past the syndicates have been huge snags
in the way of getting anything better. If any city
on earth ought to feel violently ill when t am
syndicates are mentioned it is Adelaide; yet
the 8. Australian Parliament was so incredibly
foolish that it decided to buy one lot of syndicates
out to let another in—to get rid of syndicates it
knows in order to make room for a syndicate it
doesn’t know. What it will eventually cost to get
rid of even the first lot of syndicates—the present
lot —is beyond calculation so far. Yet they are
a comparatively modest crowd—you can’t ride in
an Adelaide tram, behind an Adelaide tram-horse,
as a regular thing, and wear much frill or cultivate
extravagant ideas. Yet, though the existing syn-
dicates are a comparatively modest lot, the arbi-
trators had only got on the door-mat of their job
when they began to dispute as to whether the syn-
dicates are entitled to be paid something for good-
will; and as they couldn't agree, the matter
was carried by about 18 barristers and nine
solicitors to the Pull Court. The Act which a
former Parliament gave the syndicates says that
the Government may take over the business
(there are four separate companies) at the end of
seven-year periods; a later Act says that it may
take them all over at the same time. The Pull
Court decides now that, though they may be all
taken over at the same time, it doesn’t mean that
that are not to be on the oid seven-year basis so
far as profits are concerned ; wherefore, the
Government must pay not only the value of the
aged lines and the comic-opera rolling stock,
but also the present value of the profits
of the current seven-year period ; and it
happens that that period has only just begun.
Probably it is good law; if it is, it is only
another warning to 8. Australia to have no truck
with any more tram syndicates, tram syndicates
being things that are liable to fly up and hit a
sleepy city long after it thinks it has got rid of
the nuisance. The arbitration will, of course,
have to proceed on the Pull Court’s basis ; but the
obvious duty of the new Government is to ask
Parliament what it thinks of the syndicate busi-
ness now, having had a little more experience of
the difficulty of getting rid of the beast once it is
allowed to coil its tail firmly round the premises.
♦
A "Way They Have in Newfoundland.
A brief sketch of a place where cod comes from :
They must be extraordinary people in Newfoundland.
They are our brothers, of course ; and the “ grand old
flag” flies over them, and all that sort of thing, but for
all that, they don’t seem able to govern themselves
worth a cent. The art of Government with them, to
judge from their recent history, appears to consist mostly
in selling themselves, at a very low price indeed, to
syndicates. The story, as told in a recent number of the
London Speaker, is, or ought to be, very interesting to
Australians. We know a little about syndicates and their
methods in Australia. If some people had their way, we
should know a great deal more. We should have a syndi-
cate railway across Australia, from north to south. We
should have the best part of New Guinea governed by a
syndicate. We should have syndicate tramways, and
syndicate irrigation works. Perhaps the Newfoundland
story will help Australians to realise what they may
expect when the syndicate business gets properly planted
here.
In 1893, one R. J. Reid, a Canadian capitalist, entered
into a contract with the Newfoundland Government to
work the railway system for 10 years, in return for land
grants. In 1897, the -Government which entered into
this contract was defeated over it. But in 1898 a Bill
was carried granting to this same Mr. Reid vastly wider
privileges. In return for a payment of 900,000 dollars a
year, and certain royalties, he took over the telegraphs,
the local sea service, a Government dry dock, and the
freehold of any Grown lands he might select. In fact, the
only thing’s he doesn’t seem to have taken over were air
and light. Perhaps these were overlooked. The Bill was
supported by a Government which included Reid’s stand-
ing legal adviser (though the fact that this interested
person was Reid’s legal adviser was not discovered at the
time), and was rushed through the Legislature at railway
speed. The Governor protested to Chamberlain, then
Colonial Secretary, that the price was far too small, but
Chamberlain, although he admitted that the contract
was “an abdication by a colony of some of its most
important functions almost without parallel,” did not
think that the Imperial Government was entitled to
interfere.
The leader of the party which opposed this astonishing
contract was Robert Bond. He managed to defeat the
Government over it, and was returned by the country
with 32 supporters out of a House of 36, the Reid contract
being the only issue at the election. Bond’s Government
then bought back from the gentle Reid his rights over the
railways and the Crown lands. The most extraordinary
part of the story, however, is still to come. In January,
1905, the Bond Government, which had spent hundreds
of thousands of dollars in buying- back the country from
Reid, entered into a contract with the Ang-10-Newfound-
land Development Co., promoted by the Harmswortiis,
by which the co. obtained perpetual rights to 3000 square
miles of country for purposes of wood-pulp and paper
manufacture. This concession included about 2,000,000
acres of the best land in Newfoundland, with forests,
rivers, and lakes. The syndicate obtained full mineral
and quarry rights, was exempted from all municipal taxa-
tion, and had its machinery imported free of duty.
It obtained complete rights over the timber and game
within its area. It was empowered to control the occupa-
tions of all the residents. It might buy out any owner
within 70 miles of its own boundaries. The consideration
for these privileges was the magnificent sum of about Ss.
per square mile per year, swamp and barren lands ex-
empted, 2s. per 1000 ft. of sawn timber (nothing whatever
for timber converted into paper pulp for the Harms-
worths’ use), and 5 per cent, of the net profits from
minerals. Tne total sum thus payable, it has been said,
amounts to about the rent of a draper’s shop in a London
street.
The Bill embodying this contract was rushed through
with extraordinary rapidity, in spite of the fact that the
matter had never been before the electors at a general
election. It appears, indeed, that the cit.zens were strenu-
ously opposed to the whole project. It is stated that the
second reading of the Bill was carried in the Upper House
mainly through the “ influence ” of the paid agent of the
co. What the “influence” maybe, we are left to con-
jecture. It was certainly a pretty powerful one, to judge
by the rapidity with which the measure moved. And all
this has been done by a Government which got into office
solely by virtue of its opposition to a much less expensive
steal. Truly, they are remarkable people in Newfound-
land, and supply a valuable lesson in the art of “ en-
couraging an influx of capital to develop the magnificent
natural resources of the country.”
Westralia’s “ itfo.”
With more enthusiasm than it has shown over
anything for a long while, the Westralian
Assembly has thrown out the Daglish Govern-
ment’s scheme to buy out the Midland Railway
Co. for £1,500,000. But what does the Assembly
propose to do now ? It has simply decided that it
won’t do something ; and Westralia isn’t in such a
state of health that it can afford to do nothing.
It can’t pull through by even deciding vigorously
to be a negative. The position is that the Mid-
land Railway is a large foreign octopus which
undertook, 16 years ago, to give an efficient railway
service and develop the huge areas which it got by
way of concession ; it has provided some sort of a
service, but it has done absolutely nothing in the
other equally important matter. Spreading out
over 2,350,000 acres, everybody admits that it has
barred settlement instead of developing it Also
pretty well everybody admits that it ought to be
got rid of. Four years ago it could have been got
rid of for £1,300,000 ; but even that price was
thought excessive, and the deal didn’t come off.
Since then the State has been borrowing money
and using it to boom the State’s great natural
resources—in other words, it has been borrowing
money to boom the foreign octopus’s property,
and tiie foreign octopus consequently now asks for
£1,500,000. The railway undertaking might pay
4 per cent, on £900,000 ; the other £600,000 repre-
sents the land-grab ; and it is alleged that, at the
price the State is charging for land, it couldn’t get
within about a quarter-of-a-million of that much
even if it sold the lot. The whole trouble is that
Westralia boomed its great natural resources (with
borrowed money), and forgot, or merely declined,
to put on a stiff graduated land-tax, with
something special to reach the absentee, in
order to make those great natural re-
sources available. And if the Westralian
Parliament now leaves matters where it has
dropped them, the State won’t be any better off.
In fact, if it proposes to go on booming the great
natural resources, and doesn’t put on the heavy
graduated land-tax and the absentee surtax, it
might have done a good deal better had it made
even the bad bargain which Daglish provisionally
fixed up. In that case, at any rate, when it
boomed again it would be booming its own pro-
perty and not an absentee’s. Westralia needs a
policy now, and not merely a negative or a string
of negatives; and it is up to those who have
thrown out Daglish’s one vigorous action-—with a
considerable hole in it —to supply that policy. To
merely yap out “No,” and leave the foreign octo-
pus where it was, won't save the country.
Premiar Morgan’s itfeglected Duty?
It is fully time for all good and patriotic Aus-
tralians to once more bail up Premier Morgan, of
Queensland, and ask him when he is going to do
his duty in the matter of bringing to book that
virulent slanderer of Australia, Horace Tozer,
Agent-General. The ordinary member of the
Stinking Pish party can’t be directly brought to
book because he holds no official position, is not
directly responsible to anybody, and is often too
vague in his si aiders to be easily nailed down to
any distinct statement. Tozer is the remarkable
exception, and Tozer’s case seems to be the one in
which it is possible for an Australian State
to effectively expose the falsehoods and slan-
ders of the Stinking Fish gathering, and to do
it in a way that will fix the attention of
England on the exposure. A little while ago
Tozer was reported to have puolicly stated
that the legislation of Australia was so nefarious
that it was preventing the investment of from
£20,000,000 to £40,000,000 of capital in the
country. If this amount is the capital of
absentees, then it is much better for this country,
which owes a great deal too much already, that it
shouldn’t be invested, but that is not the question
at issue. It is the duty of the Queensland Govern-
ment ta demand particulars from its hireling
Tozer, seeing that it is the only Australian
Government which can get at Tozer. It should
require from him a list of the sums which make
up this £20,000,000 or £40,000,000, the names and
addresses of the people who own these sums, the
businesses in which the money was going to be
invested if it hadn’t been for “Socialistic legisla-
tion,” and, if possible, the dates when the schemes
of investment were formed, the dates when they
were abandoned, and the particular items of legis-
lation which caused their abandonment. If
Tozer was not simply slandering out of his
own imagination, he must be able to supply these
facts, or at least a good many of them, and he
should be invited in a most peremptory fashion to
supply them. If he fails to do so, or if the
alleged facts he supplies fail to stand investiga-
tion, he should be discharged from his position as
Agent-General, he .should be declared by special
Act or resolution unfit to re-enter the Queensland
Legislature, and the reason of these doings should
be published all over England Premier Morgan
is certainly understood to have informed Tozer
that his language was doing serious injury to Aus-
tralia, but that was a weak proceeding and wholly
insufficient. Tozer, no doubt, was doing injury
to Australia, but the question at issue was
whether he was doing injury to Australia by
courageously telling the truth, or by meanly and
disgracefully hawking round a parcel of lies. Sup-
posing Tozer, the one Stinking Fish person who
can be officially called to account, were convicted
of gross slanders, that proceeding would also con-
vict many Stinking Fish persons who can’t be
directly brought to account. If Premier Morgan
doesn’t take this chance—he being the only man
in Australia who has such a chance —he will fail
badly in his duty to his native land.
♦
The “ White Ocean ” Policy.
G. H. Reid has broken out with a new series
of misrepresentations in regard to the clauses in
the Australian Postal Act Refusing mail- subsidies
td any vessels employing colored labor. At last
elections, scorn of this “ white ocean” policy was
a trump card in his hand. The facts as to that
clause, as shown in the official records, are :
July 10, 1901: Senator Glassey moved, in the Senate,
for inclusion in the Postal Bill of a clause forbidding the
grant of mail subsidies to any but white-labor boats. His
motion was defeated.
July 25, 1901: J. 0. Watson, in the House of Repre-
sentatives, moved the adjournment to call attention to
the increasing employment of colored labor on subsidised
mail steamers. Edmund Barton, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, said that the Cabinet would use its best influence
to prevent any employment of colored labor that could be
avoided on mail steamers. G. H. Reid announced that
he was heartily with the Ministry in any efforts which
might be made to diminish the employment of colored
labor “on board ships related to us under postal con-
tracts.”
Aug. 14,1901: W. M. Hughes, in the House of Reps.,
moved an amendment in the Postal Bill to practically the
same effect as that proposed by Senator Glassey. Decision
was postponed. Sept. 4 : Alfred Bearin' proposed that
other means rather than a direct prohibition in the Act
be adopted to achieve the same end, with which he had
every sympathy. After discussion, the amendment of
W. M. Hughes was finally accepted by the Government
and carried without division. Neither G. H. Reid nor his
deputy, W. M'Millan, ncr any member of his party, voted
against the proposal.
Outside of the official records there was a little
comedy. The Barton Government at first was
against the inclusion in the Postal Bill of a clause
prohibiting mail subsidies to colored labor boats.
It sympathised with the object, but disagreed
with the means. In those days the liKiD-ites had
always their ears to the Labor caucus keyhole
listening for some suggestion, by agreeing with
which they could oust the Government. The
“ white ocean ” clause seemed to be just the thing.
The Government was against it, the Labor party
in its favor. The RkiD-ites prepared to vote with
the Labor party. The Government heard of this
and upset the plan by agreeing to the clause. It
was on a White Ocean that Reid once hoped to sail
into office. Now he has the impudence to stump
the country condemning the clause which he and
his party supported, and to an extent instigated.
Sydney D.T.’s financial authority has been inves-
tigating the local electric tram system—as yet a
baby—and finds that the up-keep charges have
been quite double those of British and American
systems. He promptly draws this conclusion :
The Australian Government workman has, we know, to
be considered. He wants high pay, short hours, holidays,
overtime, and he won’t stand piecework, or pay by results,
on any terms, as he has to do in America and England.
The efficiency of labor here consequently must be put
down at less than one-half in making comparisons.
That is certainly the most important factor vvhich we
have to contend against, and it has to be recognised that
for a Government department to attempt to deal with
its employees on commercial lines would be an outrage
on the privileges of the Government service.
Which is mostly gratuitous assumption. Labor
charges in U.S.A., for instance, are probably at
least as high as in Australia. But a little further
on in the same article the writer admits :
Since the above was written we have been informed
that out of working expenses since electrification heavy
rails have been substituted for the old permanent way,
and entirely at the cost of revenue. The very narrow
groove in opr tram rails is also a source of expense, as it
requires special cleaning, and makes a heavy demand on
the rolling stock, while the wider grooves in other
countries reduce these charges materially. The heavier
currents supplied to our motors are also a source of
expense. And the air-brakes have been costly, but the
electric brake now being adopted will be less so. With
our gradients we must have exceptional brake power, and
our exceptional conditions at many points have to be
admitted.
So there intrude these special reasons to account
for the high up-keep charges of Sydney trams
(1) The replacement, out of revenue, of the permanent
way—a very costly undertaking.
(2) The narrow-groove rail used, which makes the track
safer for cycles and wheeled vehicles, but is far more ex-
pensive to maintain than a wide-groove rail.
(3) The heavier current to ensure greater speed.
(4) The superior brakes to make the service safer.
(5) The extraordinarily heavy grades.
There is not the least doubt that these five factors,
taking into account the enormous expense of the
rail replacement (a temporary charge which will
soon vanish), account for. the great bulk of the
extra up-keep charges. But the D.T. doesn’t
withdraw its mean slander that it is the Australian
workman who is responsible, and that his efficiency
is less than half that of the European or American
toiler.
Cameron, of Tasmania, wasted the time
of the House of Reps, recently with a story about
the grievous destruction of trade by reason of the
Sea Carriage of Goods Act. That Act makes ship-
owners responsible, like any other carriers, for
damage if the goods in their charge are destroyed
or depreciated through negligence, and it was
rendered necessary through the action of shipping
companies, which had gradually altered their bills
of lading till at last they took no responsibility
whatever, and could destroy everybody’s goods
with impunity. Cameron had a vague, ignorant
idea that this Act was a device to benefit the
worker instead of being a law for the protection
of the exporter and importer, and under that im-
pression he raved at large and spilt imaginary
facts around like water. It was only when he was
fallen upon with a crash by Dugald Thomson,
Glynn, G. B. Edwards, Knox, M ‘Williams,
Kennedy, Lee, and J oe Cook that Cameron fully
realised what a failure he was.
♦
It is comprehensible that a Foreign-trader may be
anti-Australian, Tory, pro-nigger, prOrJap., etc.,
but it is not often that such a person, being a
white Britisher, a boy of the bulldog breed, a
citizen of the “Empire on which the sun never
sets,” openly advertises himself as a coward, and
advocates the abasement of a white man’s country
before the Asiatic. Yet, on Aug, 7th, an Aus-
tralian legislator, one Senator Pulsford, sent to
Melb. Argus a long article, from which that paper
quoted excerpts with enthusiastic approval,
urging Australia to “retrace her steps in regard
to the denial to the Japanese of admission
to Australia, in the light of recent events which
have made Japan one of the most powerful of
world powers. ’ Putting aside the compara-
tively trifling misstatement as to “the denial of
admission to the Japs”—there is no law specifi-
cally barring out Japs, and as a matter of fact
they seem to be entering the Commonwealth
pretty fast —it is hard to imagine anything more
spineless or contemptible than the tfpectacle of a
' “ son of the dominant race ” thus grovelling pub-
licly before Asia. Pulsford’s plea is simply
one of terror because Japan has become a “ world
power.” The reason why Australia isn’t also a
world power is want of population. It can’t get
population for want of work to employ population,
and it can’t supply the work because the
Pulsford crowd persuades it that if it makes
things for itself they may cost a farthing morg


rCailler’s
Swiss Milk
Chocolate
OUR
COMPETITION.
FREE WATCHES
FOR EVERYBODY.
BEND YOUR ADDRESS FOR
SAMPLE AND PARTICULARS.
CAILLER’S,
Mutual Eife Building, Martin Place,
l SYDNEY. A
Few journalists in Australia were more
widely known and respected than Mr. James P.
Dowling, who died suddenly of pneumonia this
week. As editor of the Sydney Mail, Mr. Dow-
ling had a view of the responsibilities of jour-
nalism which is, unhappily, rather rare in Aus-
tralia now. A man of broad and generous
spirit, he took it as his duty to know the
mind of the community, and to be acquainted
with all its different interests. The Mail did not
perhaps give as much scope as was deserved for
his talents. Originally a working miner, Dowling’s
first experience in journalism was with the Fair-
faxes Jand he concluded, a few months ago, a third
of a century’s service with that proprietary.
When the alleged bones of Paul Jones
were brought from Paris, the other week, for re-
burial, a good many of the excited populace
shouted “Vive Jones ! ” They saw a procession,
and hearing that it was on account of one Paul
Jones, they wished him health and prosperity.
Touching George Ousted Reid’s continual
wailing; why doesn’t he go forth into the middle
of a large and lonely night and erupt one cat-
scaring bleat and have done with it? Or, better
still, why does he not apply D.C.L. Whisky to the
afflicted part internally ? No man who takes
D.C.L. to his bosom in well modulated enthusiasm
can long remain afflicted. Borrow soon ceases to
be his bedfellow if he takes a nobbier of D.C.L.
for a “ night-cap.” Poor old George must adopt
the “night-cap custom.*
9
ms.
i
c.
c
TWO
Flukes
Tobacco leads,'
All others follow.
GALLAHER UP BELFAST,
BELONG To NO TRUSTor COMBINE
than if they were imported. Japan became a
world power by deciding to sacrifice the farthing,
if necessary, on the altar of patriotism, and it was
applauded for doing so. To spend money on war
is, in the view of the Pulsford crowd, a noble
act of self-sacrifice. To spend money on the first
essential of defence —the finding of work to sup-
port a population large enough to defend the
country —is, in the view of the same crowd,
“ coddling the manufacturer.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
llkr Majesty’s “Marie Antoinette.”
Theatre Royal “A Sailor’s Sweetheart.”
Criterion “ Beauty and the Barge.”
Palace “ The Coquette.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Op o’ Me Thumb” and “Marquis
de Treville.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Cingalee.”
Theatre Royal “Besieged in Port Arthur.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
“ Jack Shannon,” the last of the Andrew
Mack plays at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), was put on
for four nights only, and these included a super-
fluous three. “Jack” is wretchedly poor melo-
drama, in which the author seems to have relied
upon his memory for the plot and upon a pump
for the humor; and the way in which that old
pump creaks while the action of the play is stopped
to allow the “spontaneous” Irish wit to flow forth
is something sinful. Having got the hero (who,
of course, is A. Mack) into the usual difficulties
by the usual means, including the usual substituted
bank-note, the conspirator can’t think of any better
way of getting him out than of making the heavy
father wander into a room while his son, duped by
the dark villain, confesses to the hero that it
was he who robbed the safe and did the
other bad things with which the hero is
charged. Then, when the confession is made and
the good and basely-accused young man is shown
up as something extra-special in the way of
righteousness, the heavy father is observed for the
first time, standing in the middle of the room.
“ Then you have heard all?” . . . “ Yes, all.” . . .
“ Bless you, my children ! ” And you go home to
a snack of cheese or to Paris House for some-
thing that costs more—which depends on whether
you have your wife with you or somebody who
isn’t.
Seen once, Andrew Mack shows you just
about all that he can do. At least one judges so
from his Sydney season. Perhaps it may be the
fault of his parts; at any rate* he has'been the
same Mack, the same young, rollicking Irish lad,
in the whole four —making love in the same
quizzical way, meeting much the same difficulties,
in the same way, grappling with villainy in the
same way, making much the same excuses for
singing much the same songs, and finding the
same apparent difficulty with his collar whether
it was Tom Moore’s collar, or Shaun the Post’s, or
Jack Shannon’s. An easy, confident, brisk actor,
who gives a good account of Irish blarney, who
warbles himself close up to the affections of the
audience, and then is invited to come closer to the
public heart because he is so fond of the children.
The actor who dandles the stage-kiddy on his
knee, and gives her a pick-a-back, and is called
“Dear Mr. Jack,” and told that he mustn’t go
away—that actor has his battle half-won. “ Jack
Shannon’s” stage-kiddy, Maisie Posner, has a
good deal more than usual to do, and so far as
the elocutionary part of the business is con-
cerned does it specially well. Miss Lovett
has little to do beyond expressing an unshaken!
confidence in J. Shannon through three acts, and
she expresses it quite satisfactorily. E. Heron,
who had achieved great popularity through
various absurd extravagances (playing “comic
relief,” to whom ordinary laws don’t apply) pre-
sented a much more real character in the servant
O’Donoghue ; and for the rest, with one or two
trifling exceptions, Mack’s support was wooden—
heavy bluegum, mostly. For this Thursday and
Eriday “ Tom Moore” will be repeated - consider-
ably the most striking play in the collection, and,
when you have forgiven its historical inaccuracies
worth seeing twice. After that, Miss Nance
O’Neil and “Marie Antoinette.”
** * *
The Great Thurston will close his season
at Sydney Palace next Saturday night, after a
highly financial run of eight weeks. Some new
tricks are promised for this week—in fact, the
capacity of Thurston for producing new tricks is
only equalled by the capacity of men, women, and
children for being tricked. This remark is meant
in a complimentary sense, but it is one of the
things that might have been expressed differently.
** * *
Sydney has witnessed so few productions
of the home-made comic opera that the production
of “The Coquette,” at the Palace Theatre, for
six nights and a matinee (beginning August 28),
should excite interest. The book has been written
by W. J. Curtis and Jno.T. Hunt, and the music
is by W. Arundel Orchard (conductor of the
Sydney Liedertafel). New scenery and costumes
have been prepared. Mr. Orchard will conduct
a large orchestra and full operatic chorus, and Mr.
W. Curtis will play the comedy role of Jeremy
Pymble, an insurance agent. Miss Minnie Hooper
is arranging the ballets and incidental dances.
The State Governor, the Admiral, the Chief
Justice, and other citizens have consented to “The
Coquette ” being placed under their patronage.
** * *
“Mrs. Dooley's Joke ” has been developed
this week at Sydney Criterion, and by any other
name it would be as funny as it is now. It once
called itself “Mrs. Goldstein,” and in the Gold-
stein days Mr. John Sheridan was a Jewess. Now,
as Mary Ann Kelly, alias Mrs. Dooley, he is a
luscious old Irishwoman, beautifully dressed, and
bediamonded like the masthead lights of Togo’s
fleet. There are some things in this world that
never die; cats and mules are imperishable, and
matter is indestructible, and the old root joke that
is founded on the mother-in-law defies the hand of
Time. It and the joke about the nigger and the
rooster were the two jests that Noah took into the
Ark so that humor might not wholly perish off
the earth. The mother-in-law joke is a good
deal frayed, of course, but it is still capable
of drawing an audience. The one that came to
the Criterion on Saturday to see Mrs. Dooley play
her joke made a great din of welcome over the
impersonator. “ The kind of woman lam under-
stands min,” says Mrs. Dooley, winking towards
the front row of the stalls. The audience responds
with a whirlwind of laughter. The joke begins
to crack with a club scene. A crowd of gay young
blades in evening dress sharpen their wits on each
other and puff cigarettes. Many of the club “men”
are girls—and these do most of the puffing and
strutting. No one in Heaven or earth ever saw
club men with such hair as these masqueraders
wear. A Paderewski crop is understandable, but
a damsel in satin knee-breeches and coat, and
posing as a man, yet wearing a hideous, smooth
erection of hair-frame-work is enough to make a
motor-car shy. There is a long list of hard-
working characters in the piece. Miss Maud
Amber and Winfield Blake do some interpo-
lated turns, and the Joke, which is rather wild
and incomprehensible all the time, closes on
Flemington Racecourse. Next Saturday the
Broughs take possession of the Criterion.
** * #
“A Sailor’s Sweetheart”—a melodrama
new to Sydney—will be staged at the Royal on
Saturday by William Anderson’s co. It promises
to be of a better type than that phantasmagoria of
outcries and sensations, “Her Second Tune on
Earth,” and it could hardly be of a worse type
without a special effort that would be heard all
over the city. It is generally possible to guess
the character of a bellowdrama by its title.
“Jack’s Love ” is generally reasonable and idyllic,
and has a tendency to gather up the shells by the
seashore, and to wander through flowery lanes,
and scratch the nose of the spring calf as it moos
at the lovers over the hedge ; and there is no great
strain put on the public’s credulity until the last
act, when the hero is saved from burning at the
stake in the centre of Africa by the opportune
arrival of a detachment of British tars on a motor-
car. But “The Blood-stain on the Hearth” or
“ The Worst Wolf in the World” gives warning
of a reek of horrors and a general turning over of
restless bones in the tomb. “ A Sailor’s Sweet-
heart” should be sweetly reasonable, provided the
sailor doesn’t pei’sist on shivering his timbers or
throwing one leg in the air sideways while he
hitches up his baggy pants.
The Tivoli bill has been furbished up con-
siderably; and it was getting to want a coat of
something. Yet there is nothing big in the way
of new-comers; it is rather a case of the whole
crowd brushing up a bit. Fanny Powers is back,
popular as ever : but they won’t be able to call her
the marvellous child mimic much longer. A lady
is blowing into the cornet; Milo has gone to Sydney
parks for new poses, and lifts Andromeda, Bac-
chante, and other scantily-draped ladies on to the
shady pedestal in the stage-carpenter’s garden ;
Winton is still reproving MGinty in the usual
manner; and Florence Challis and others help to
give good value for your money.
*
Last week died William, familiarly known
as “Pete,” Hughes. He came to this country
many years ago with John F. Sheridan, of
“ Widdy O’Brien” fame, as advance agent. Pie
also, on emergency, occasionally played the nigger
steward, and sometimes the nigger wench, Bella.
His sobriquet of “Pete” was derived from a
, habit he had of addressing everybody else as
“Pete,” or else from Pete, the steward above-
meiTtioned. He afterwards devoted himself to
theatrical management, and for a very long time
was under engagement to J. C. Williamson. He
was also very successful on his own account.
When the last Italian opera company, which
numbered among its members the Cutticas, Sisco,
Melossi, Travaglini, and conductor Maffezzoli,
brought to this country by the late Martin
Simonsen, came to calamity in Sydney, “Pete”
took it in hand and safely piloted it overland to
Melbourne, making money for himself and the
artists. There were no frills about “Pete.” His
phraseology might have sometimes shocked those
who talk in the Johnsonese language ; but he was
a kind-hearted citizen, a good friend, and a very
poor specimen of an enemy,
** * *
Most things happening at the Melbourne
theatres when this Bulletin is born into the
world will be faded and gone ere next Sabbath.
The one exception is Bland Holt’s amazing war
drama at the Royal. “ Besieged in Port Arthur ”
will continue until further notice, admired for its
feast of scenery and flow of supers, but dis-
’ respected as an historical romance. Probability
gets no show in the Russian fortress. A mob of
unaccountable peasants are somehow admitted
into General Flogakoff’s banquet-hall when the
ballet is being served. These weird intruders
turn out to be Jap soldiers in disguise,
headed by Walter Baker, Britain’s noblest
son, and seeing that the Muscovite tyrant is
bound to whistle for assistance and wipe the
intruders out, the stage manager saves the situa-
tion by plunging the scene into darkness. Next
time Baker comes to light he is a bogus Russian
priest sporting the hooded cassock of a comic
opera, friar, and in this queer capacity he gives
Fldgakoff further impudence. Any mishap to the
Japs or their white brother Baker is quite out of
the question in Bland Holt’s drama. Although it
is said to have come from London (the brighter
part of the dialogue having been subsequently in-
troduced in Melbourne by Edward Hyson) it
breathes all the sentiment of Cole’s pro-Jap
booklets, and The Bulletin suspects that Cole
aforesaid was the author of the original sin.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) is the last Melbourne
will see of “ lolanthe,” by the Gilbert and Sullivan
Repertoire Co., whose members have served their
three weeks at Her Majesty’s with much credit to
themselves and profit to the management. Howard
Vernon and Kenningham play their old parts, and
Miss Ghiloni this time is the Fairy Queen, instead
of the long-banished peri who rises from a duck-
pond in a dry state. Miss Dolly Castles, dainty
Aggie Thorne, Frank Wilson, Ralston, and Ernest
Fitts are new to this opera in Melbourne, and their
combined resources of youth, freshness, and vocal
strength entitle them to the positions they hold in
front of a charming chorus.
** * *
“ The Cingalee ” brings the Comic Opera
Co. back to Her Majesty’s after an absence of six
months or more. Half a year is a long time for
Melbourne to be parted from its trusty frivollers.
On their re-appearance this Saturday (26th) the
audience will, in a manner of speaking, take them
to its bosom—a good deal of which will be laid
bare for the occasion.
At the Princess’s, the wholesome attrac-
tion of “Quality Street” comes to an end this
(Thursday) night—for the present. The Brough-
Flemming people may be expected to return anon
to repeat what- they have done this trip, and do
other things they left undone, but meanwhile they
have other arrangements. Nellie Stewart and co.
are coming along on Saturday to play a lively
season of 12 nights. A comedietta and a “ roman-
tic farce,” both new to Australia, will make the
opening programme, and Nellie Stewart will
appear in the one and the other. In the other, it
is said, she will figure as a mere man most of the
time.
&* * *
The bill at Melbourne Opera House is the
same unexciting bill as before, with the addition
of George Stillwell, -whose special line of art is
“ handkerchief manipulation.” Kara, the juggler,
quits the bill this week, and a new name will
burst into large type on Saturday. On the same
eventful day Walter Sanford and his liorrordrama
co. will resume operations at the Bijou.
* * *
Rumors of an approaching comedy com-
pany are in the Melbourne air ; also Edwin Geach
is striking advt. notes of interrogation re the
Great Thurston with a view to producing the
Great One at the Athenaeum Hall. Another
advt. suggests that Miss Maggie Stirling will be at
the Town Hall shortly. Miss Una Bourne’s com-
plimentary send-off concert is due there to-night
(Thursday).
# * *
Adelaide has followed its early view of
11 The Cingalee ” by a late one of the “ Country
Girl,” an unfamiliar play of which the music was
already so familiar that it had been almost barrel-
organed to death. Miss Olive Godwin was pro-
moted to the name part. The story of the piece is
one of the kind that can be cut off in lengths, to
order. Music, costumes, and the giving of a free
hand to the. low comedian, pull it through.
George Lduri, in a low-necked ball-gown, was
curiously reminiscent of his relative Edward in the
same undress. Frank Clark’s Folly Co. keeps
right on at the Tivoli at low prices, and the City
Corporation is talking of prosecuting both theatres
for overcrowding. - -
Dr. Nansen, the Arctic explorer, has
received innumerable letters from peasants and
fishermen begging him to accept the Norwegian
crown. He should be better than a whole row of
German princes,' anyhow.
THE LATE MR. J. P. DOWLING.
Photo, by Talma & Co., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
'r ——
The July issue of N.S.W. official Monthly
Bulletin, compiled by the Government Statistician, throws
some more light on Carruthers’ character as a financial
reformer. In Waddell’s year (1904) the publication says
that the total loan money spent on whollv non-productive
works was £292,480 ; and Carruthers said that Waddell
was so shocking a Treasurer that he would have to take
his place and save the country. Now Carruthers’ own
officers show,- in Carruthers’ own publication, that in
Carruthers’ year (to June 30, 1905) £299,876 was spent on
wholly non-productive w'orks—that is, £7396 more than
Waddell spent. Under these circumstances, what ought
to happen to Carruthers ?
* * * *
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers has stated proudly
that bis surplus—which has now dwindled to £142,000
is the largest the State has had for 10 years. Yet nine
years ago Reid swore that he had *a surplus of over
£330,000, and Carruthers also swore to it, though the
Auditor-General, the Statistician, and the Special Com-
mission appointed to report on the accounts found instead
a deficit of some £600,000. Does Carruthers now say
that he and Reid were both liars nine vears ago?
* * * ,
“G.” : The Victorian Government has seriously
discounted the value of its recent sensible doings, by the
decision to sell the g'rounds of the Kew Asylum in resi-
dential blocks, and to use the money so obtained as an
endowment fund for the maintenance of the insane. Bent
does not explain how he intends to obtain as much
interest from the money he will have to invest as the
people who buy the land will get from their tenants.
Neither does he say a word about providing any means by
which future Treasurers will be prevented from dipping
their hands in this special endowment to pay off other
debts pressing at the moment. There is absolutely
no way of guarding against any future Treasurer, with a
truculent manner and a servile majority, from “blew-
ing ” the endowment for the insane in political two-up.
A land endowment is a different thing. The Kew Asylum
grounds are, in point of position, the very pick of'Mel-
bourne. From the time of their being opened up thev
will probably fetch not less than £3 a foot, and with the
railway, which forms part of Bent’s scheme, they will
form an ideal residential quarter, high, healthy,
clean, out of the dust and smoke of the city, and still
within seven minutes’ train journey. The proposal to
shift the asylum gives the State a magnificent opportunity
to do what the more advanced municipalities of the world
are doing. By subdividing the area in a proper manner
and erecting villas, Bent could keep his brick works
going for three years and make a big profit. When
the work was completed, Bent would have a ready made
suburb, the houses of which he would be able to‘ fill on
five years leases by tender. If such a scheme were
properly and economically carried out, instead of receiving
3 per cent, for his lunacy endowment fund, Bent
would probably be able to obtain nearer 8 per cent.,
and besides providing for the care of the State’s lunatics
he would be able to buy up the Gillies debentures, issued
on the security of these grounds, from year to year. The
handing over of the grounds to private syndicates means,
instead of a homogeneous suburb of the best hygienic
conditions, the erection of architectural eye-sores, and
the possibility of a grasping syndicate piling up slum
tenements on its particular slice.
♦ ♦ dfc
M.C. : Mr. Sandford says the iron industry
would give employment to 30,000 men. But what Aus-
tralia has to glue in front of it is that, to accomplish thi -,
High Protection on all the secondary processes of iron
manufacture is called for. About 70,000 men are em-
ployed at the British blast-iron furnaces ; so our local
trade would have to equal nearly half that of Britain to
give employment to 30,000 men' in producing merely
primary products. The germ of the idea—so far as
greatly enlarging the scope of employment is concerned-
lies in Protection for the manufacture « f nails, rods, bars,
wire, and galvanised goods. Comparatively few hands
would be required to produce the pig-iron consumed in
Australia ; but the trade would be of immense advantage
as it would form the basis, under Protection, of a great
industry, or, rather, a dozen industries. American iron
ore, of about the same assay value for iron and phos-
phorus as most of the local ore, fetches from 12s. to 16s.
per ton at the smelters ; and the low price of iron ore,
and also of pig-iron, precludes any hope of much wages
being earned through the primary business of iron pro-
duction. Some of the secondary manufacturing, includ-
ing the galvanising, would, on the other hand, distribute
over £1,000,000 per annum in wages—if it had sufficient
Protection.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. (Melbourne)
Dividends Added Nominal
on Capital to Re-
Profits. Actually Paid. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., I£OL .. 16,701 12i p.c. = 3/50 12,951 80,695
June, 1902 .. 16,015 9J „ „ 3000 13,015 93,710
Dec., 1902 .. 15,090 13J „ ~4500 10,590 104,300
June, 1903 .. 10,501 171 „ ~ 6000 4,501 108,101
Dec., 1903.. 7,885 8 „ ~3000 4,885 113,686
June, 1904 .. 12,881 12 „ ~4500 8,381 122,067
(£47,067 reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised").
Dec., 1904 .. 13,374 10 „ ~3750 9,624 9 624
June, 1905 .. 10,767 10 ~ ~3750 7,017 16*641
The reserves consist of formal reserve £5OOO, insurance
reserve £2900, depreciation account £6OOO, and undivided
profit £2741. Twelve months ago the co. was recon-
structed, and properties were written down ; they are
now' in the balance-sheet at the cost to the new co.
Nothing having thus been written off for wear and tear;
the reserves are to some extent nominal—probably to the
extent of the depreciation account. The financial position
is stronger than it was six months ago ; nothing having
been added to fixed and floating property, the undivided
profit has been accumulated in liquid investments, de-
posits and cash. Liquid assets now exceed current lia-
bilities by £39,366 ; this includes an estimated £9312 ot'
coal and other stores. Deducting the £6OOO put into
depreciation account, the profits for the new co.’s first
year show a return of £l2 Is. lOd. on the capital, including
the capitalised £75,000. Whether the £6OOO written off is
sufficient is another matter ; it amounts to only 4f per
cent., and that doesn’t look at all excessive for steam-
ships, hulks, lighters, and leaseholds. The co. publishes
no profit and loss account, and the inwardness of the


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelnarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling- stock tor manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel. Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
,T2T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING &, TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orexsteix and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches —504 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
The British Australasian (London) July 14,
1904, writes with reference to the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited : —“ It can boast of having
paid to its policy holders-during the 32 years of its
existence no less a sum than £3,267,019, while the total
new business since the commencement of the society
exceeds 28 millions sterling'.”*
*. * * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining- and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
, cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
The Waihi Mine management (M.L.), is making
extensive additions to the milling plant in order to be
in a position to deal more effectively with the sulphide
ores which will for the future be the product from their
lower levels. Concentration will be a special feature in
the treatment, and the company accordingly, before
deciding upon the type of concentrator to be adopted,
made exhaustive tests of the different machines pro-
curable in the market and finally decided to adopt the
Wilfiey Concentrator, and have placed an order for 25
tables with the Austral Otis Engineering Company, South
Melbourne, sole manufacturers for Australasia. This
firm has just completed and shipped the machines to the
mine.* #
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
.Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbbrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.* #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. — Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sig'n of decay, and may last as long again. Spiial
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making’ boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriiition of cast or wrought iron work.*
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” — The
lornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
uccessful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
ron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
joiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Aght Corporation of London, after similar experience,
lave installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
Maced repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
asia besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
VIount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
rave been received from both Queensland and W.A.
nines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
■fie well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
ire also putting down “ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of'300 h.p.
ind lOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buy ei s,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
natte, bullion furnace and cyanide products, tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
Tin has touched £152, but the market could not
maintain the price, which has fallen below £150 again.
In the commercial metals no other market is so erratic.
For a day or two in 1888 £170 was quoted; that was
during the silver excitement —formerly tin and silvei
usuallv moved more or less together. Next year tin was
down to £75. Forecasts of the future of the market seem
utterly worthless ; the same yarn regarding, scarcity of
supplies and enormously increased demand has been told
during every tin boom, and the enterprise that figures on
maintenance of present prices flies in the face of all past
experience.
DHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
i Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
■ jpar Correspondence Invited.
HY- MARKWALD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
backward movement in profits during the past half-year
cannot therefore be traced.
Standard Mutual Building Society (Melb.):
Profit on .
Property Written Re -
Profits. Sold. Dividends. off. serves.
Jan., 1899 .. £904 £12,138
July, 1899 .. 1011 £692 12,457
Jan., 1900.. 739 73 13,123
July, 1900.. 1269 660 13,732
(£49,600, being one-half the capital, written off.)
Jan., 1901 .. 1451 £l2OB 6942 9,449
July, 1901 .. 1541 609 10p.c.=£2401 474 8,724
Jan., 1902.. 1952 1277 6 ~ ~ 1434 10,519
July, 1902.. 1803 793 6 ~ ~ 1434 485 11,196
Jan., 1903 .. 2072 412 6 ~ „ 1434 12,246
Juty, 1903 .. 2041 339 6 ~ ~ 1434 200 12,992
Jan., 1904.. 2230 612 6 ~ ~ 1434 14,400
July, 1904 ..1986 534 6 ~ ~ 1434 338 15,148
Jan., 1905.. 2076 221 6 ~ ~ 1434 16,011
July, 1905 .. 1880 170 6 ~ „ 1434 258 16,369
The irregularity of the profits and the bulk of the recent
writings-off are explained by the fact that the society puts
to contingency account in the first half of the year half
the estimated amount of the year’s rates, and writes the
amount off when the rates are paid. The progress seems
satisfactory and the position solid. A comparison :
1901. 1904. 1905.
Deposits £35,763 £29,297 £30,490
Foreclosed Properties .. 71,938 61,519 60,741
Advances 20,875 27,813 26,208
Cash, &c. 2,169 4,370 9,288
Net Rents p.c. of Capital
Value .. .. .. £5 13 6 £6 10 3 £6 1 6
The fact that a steady profit is shown on properties sold,
coupled with the very satisfactory net rental realised,
indicates that the writing down a few years back was
sufficiently thorough. The capital is £47,797 ; so that the
borrowings (£30,490) are still not heavy. Apparently the
average rate paid for deposits is 4 p.c., and received for
advances 8 p.c., and that is a sufficient margin to make the
business attractive. On the society’s own funds (capital
and reserves) the ordinary business profit shows a fraction
that doesn’t matter under 6 p.c.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.): —
Surplus
Dividends and Divi- for Re- De-
Profits. dend Tax. serves. licit.
June, 1898.. £4450 5 per cent. = £4429 £2l £9126
Dec., 1898 .. 3129 3 ',, ~ „ 2658 471 8655
June, 1899 .. 2668 3 „ „ „ 2658 10 8645
Dec., 1899 .. 2375 3 „ „ „ 2658 8928
June, 1900 .. 3108 3 „ „ „ 2668 450 8478
Dec., 1900 .. 2998 3 ~, , „ „ 2658 340 8138
June, 1901 .. 3354 3 ~ „ „ 2658 696 7442
Dec., 1901 .. 4035 3 ~ „ ~ 2658 1377 6065
£60,750 capital written off, of which £7500 . Reserves,
was applied to wipe out goodwill, leaving .. 1435
June, 1902 .. £4981 6 percents 3402 1579 3014
Dec., 1902 .. 3788 6 ~ ~ ~ 3402 386 3400
June, 1903 .. 4786 6 „ „ „ 3402 1384 4784
Dec., 1903 .. 3408 6 „ „ „ 3402 6 4790
June, 1904 .. 3917 6 „ „ ~ 3402 515 5305
Dec., 1904 .. 3920 6 ~ ~ ~ 3402 518 5823
June, 1905 .. 4606 6 „ ~ „ 3402 1204 7027
Some other comparisons, going more into detail: —
Dec., June, Dec., June,
1902. 1904. 1904. 1905.
&£>£;£/
Overdraft, &c .. .. 101,982 113,403 112,986 110,511
Owing on deposits .. 14,687 12,987 12,987 12,937
Gross profits, goods .. 10,770 it,203 11,388 11,145
Rents received .. .. 3,712 4,152 4,061 4,041
Expenses, discounts, &c. 8,236 8,273 8,278 7,491
Interest paid .. .. 2,458 3,166 3,257 3,088
Freeholds, &c 180,482 186,460 186,625 186,446
Stock and plant .. .. 35,412 42,070 38,366 40,343
Sundry debtors, less trade
debts 15,578 14,568 18,208 15,088
The directors remark that “ the acquisition of the busi-
ness of the late Mr. George Adams will help to increase
the profits ” ; but the purchase is not shown in the pre-
sent accounts. The accounts are silent as to depreciation.
The freeholds are very extensive—standing at very
nearly twice as much as the capital (£108,000)
—and it is a matter of much concern whether
the writings-off are sufficient to cover depreciation. There
is nothing- on which to base an estimate as to whether
they are or not —it is not even certain that anything at
all is written off. So far as current operations are con-
cerned, substantial progress seems to have been made;
expenses have been considerably reduced, much more
than counterbalancing a small shrinkage in gross profits
from sales. But the load of debt is very heavy, and the
doubt whether any or sufficient allowance is made for
wear and tear of plant and premises, &c., makes the load
look even heavier than usual.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Broken Hill and Suburban Gas Co. (N.S. W.):
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1904 .. £2401 6 p.c. =£1694 £707 £5636
1905 .. 2986 6 „ „ 1694 1292 6928
The co. is 17 years old, and apparently the total written
off buildings, mains, and machinery is £4556. The cost
was £31,753, so that in all 14 per cent, has been provided for
depreciation—only 14 per cent, for 17 years’ wear and tear.
It is pretty certain, therefore, that the reserves are larg-ely
or entirely nominal. All the same, the recent additions
have been very satisfactory. The better showing in the
matter of profits in the. past year compared with 1903-4
was almost wholly due to coke sales. Fuel is worth
nearly as much as silver at Broken Hill, and the revenue
from coke was more than one-seventh that from gas. All
but £2831 of the co.’s capital (£28,229) and reserves are
invested in the business. *
* * * *
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Added
Net Dividends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Dec., 1899.. £1363 4 per =£loso £313 £5273
June, 1900.. 1203 4 „ ~ 1050 ‘ 153 5426
Dec., 1900.. 1252 4 ~ ~ 1050 202 5628
June, 1901.. 984 4 ~ ~ 1050 5582
Dec., 1901.. 1159 4 „ „ 1050 109 5671
June, 1902.. 1147 4 ~ ~ 1050 97 5768
Dec., 1902., 1111 4 „ ~ 1050 61 5829
June, 1903,. 1328 4 „ ~ 1050 278 6107
Dec., 1903.. 1584 4 ~ ~ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4 „ ~ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904.. 1655 4 „ ~ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 815 4 ~ ~ 1050 7364
Co. had a spasm of virtue this half-year, and wrote off
£5OO for depreciation ; hence the poor showing in the
last line. That sort of thing is inevitably when co.’s leave
the writings-off for wear and tear to be done in large slices
at long intervals. Besides its capital (£50,000) and re-
serves, it has debentures, £32,980, and overdraft, £3615 —
all sunk in the business. Electric light and power gener-
ation is so cheap at Launceston that the competing Gas
Co. has one of the least profitable stands among the gas
co.’s of the Commonwealth. The best that can be said for
it is that its published accounts are full and clear. But
the figures probably don’t mean much. As something is
only very rarely written off plant, &c., which stands in at
£BO,BOl, the reserves are most likely paper reserves only ;
and the reported profits not all real profits.
* * * *
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.)
Dividends Writ- Added
and ten to Re- Re-
Profit. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Oct., 1902 .. £1273 10 p.c. =£loso £lO2 £l2l £2381
Ap., 1903.. 956 10 „„ 1050 2287
Oct., 1903.. 1437 10 ~ ~ 1050 100 287 2574
Ap., 1904 .. 968 10 ~ „ 1050 93 2399
Oct., 1904.. 1375 10 „„ 1050 100 225 2624'
Ap., 1905.. 985 10 ~ „ 1050 2559
Except for £lOOO on deposit, the capital (£20,000) and re-
serves are in the undertaking. In plant, mains, &c., the
co. has £19,558 ; the writings-off are therefore extremely
small, and the dividend excessive. Maintenance cost :
£270 during the past year ; but even if twice as much
were spent in that way, the trouble ofrenewal would have
to be faced some day, and no adequate preparation is
being made for it. It is highly probable that the under-
taking has depreciated to a greater extent than the
reserves would cover ; if that is so, it simply means that
the dividends are being paid in part out of capital.
* * *
The Balmain New Berry Co. (Sydney)
Added Written
Net to Be- Off Be- Be-
Proftts. Dividends. serves, serves, serves.
Dee., 1899..£1687 10 p.c. =£64B £1039 £3947
June, 1900.. 773 10 „ „ 648 125 4072
Dec., 1900.. 975 10 „ „ 648 327 4J99
June, 1901.. 990 10 „ „ 648 342 4741
Dec., 1901.. 494 10 ~ „ 648 4587
June, 1902.. 1031 10 ~ ~ 648 = 4970
£367 profit made on sale of Forfeited Shares 5337
Dec., 1902.. 272 74 „ „ 616 4993
£247 profit made on sale of Forfeited Shares 0240
June, 1903.. 309 5 „ „ 410 5139
Dec., 1903.. 643 5 „ „ 410 233 5372
June, 1904.. 753 74 „ „ 616 £4675 834
Dec., 1904.. 972 74 „ „ 616 125 1065
June, 1905.. 932 7A ~ ~ 616 316 1381
The amount written off for depreciation is £977 —a steady
and substantial 10 or 11 p.c. p.a. on ship and all other
properties. The co. has now another boat on the stocks ;
to pay for this (£3OO has gone on account) it has £3OBl
in cash and Government bonds. Profit and loss items
are practically unchanged ; the commendable policy of
writing down ship properties steadily and substantially is
maintained ; and generally the little co. (paid-up capital
£16,420) seems to be moving along in a plain, sensible,
and reasonably profitable way, paying away 74 per cent.,
and putting aside a fraction over 3 per cent, for the dry
day when something will go wrong with the coal contract
(as it did three or four years ago), or with one of the
boats, or something of the sort. For a co. that has to
take this co. ’s risks the reserves, though real, are still small;
and the voice of the charmer that asks for an increased
div. should be thrown over in the deepest part of the
harbor any dark night it is heard.
* * * *
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Melbourne):
Net To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serve, serves.
June, 1901 .. £B4B 21 p.c. = £6OO £248 £2469
Dec., 1901 .. 1,090 21 ~ „ 600 490 2959
June, 1902.. 1,210 2J ~ ~ 600 610 3569
Dec., 1902 .. 1,365 3J ~ ~ 810 565 4134
June, 1903.. 1,188 3| „ ~ 800 388 4522
Dec., 1903 .. 1,254 3J „ „ 800 454 4976
June, 1904 .. 1,190 Nil 1,190 6166
Dec., 1904 .. | 15 vyritten ofb £4497 } 1820
June, 1905 .. 902 Nil 902 2722
The scheme for the reconstruction of the theatre has
been carried out at a cost of over £16,000, and the co. is
left with a net overdraft of £9745 ; it is only the interest
item (£363) which makes net profits for the past half-year
show up less satisfactorily than _ those of the past few
terms. Directors’ stated intention is to wipe out this
debt with all possible speed.
The Commercial Building and Investment
Co. (Sydney)
Loss on
Loss on Property Total Reserves.
June, Business. Sales. Loss.
1896 .. £1,815
Deficit.
1897 .. £3145 £3145 1,330
1898 .. 4037 4037 5,367
1899 .. 1485 £l5OB 2993 8,360
1900 .. 933 933 9,293
1901 ... 186 . 186 9,479
1902 .. 45 -- 45 9,524
Profit. Profit.
1903 .. 708 —— 708 8,816
1904 .. 286 286 8,530
Loss. Loss.
1905 .. 396 8165 8561 17,091
The co. has £145,041 of capital and owes the public
(mortgages, &c.) £142,744. It has properties of the book
value of £269,417, and other assets total £1277. During
the year the city property item has been reduced by
£13,563 ; the loss was £8165, so apparently £5398 was
netted for it. At that rate of realisation the assets are
worth £lOB,OOO. Whether, however, the property that
was sold was a particularly bad bargain in the first place
it is impossible to say. The directors say that it was.
Two or three years ago Richardson and Wrench valued
the properties at a price which left the co. with £40,000
odd ; and if that valuation works .out all right, then the
past year’s sale must have been something unusual in the
way of disaster. But whether the money is there or not,
the waiting to realise promises to be a pretty tiring pro-
cess. On the average book-value of property held during
the year, the gross rents (£10,739) show about £3 18s. per
cent. ; deducting ground rents, repairs, taxes, and insur-
ance, the return was £2 13s. 6d. per cent. And, as before
pointed out, the co. is carrying £142,744 of debt, which
costs 44 per cent. The co. is now calling up £1 per share
(there are 16,038 live shares), and with the mortgage re-
duced a trifle it expects, to get its money for 4 per cent,
instead of 44 per cent. ; and that will be some small help
to a concern that needs such heln badly.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Shale and Oil Co. (Sydney).;—
Written To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. Off. serve, serves.
Dec., 1898.. £591 2ip.c.=£B33 £783
June, 1899.. 623 Nil £3OO £325 1108
Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1899.. 1575 Nil 467
June, 1900.. 432 Nil 899
Dec., 1900.. 382 Nil 1281
Profit. Reserves.
June, 1901.. 2128 Nil 812 1316 35
Dec., 1901.. 474 Nil 474 509
Loss. Deficit.
June, 1902.. 1073 Nil 564
Profit. Reserves.
Dec., 1902.. 662 Nil 662 98
June, 1903.. ,107 Nil 107 205
Dec., 1903.. 1198 Nil 1198 '403
June, 1904.. 2629 Nil 3000 1032
Dec., 1904.. 2762 Nil 3500 294
June, 1905.. 2410 Nil 2500 204
This, by the way, is the industry into, which it was
recently announced English newspaper man Newnes and
others had been induced to put half-a-million or so, the
thick end of which was going to the owners of the shale
properties. There was for the moment some mighty
crowing over “ the return of prosperity,” and the daily
papers said how pleased they were to observe that capital
was once more forthcoming to develop our great natural
resources; there wasn’t a word of warning about the
hopelessness of any such absurdly capitalised concerns in
such a business under present conditions. If they export
their shale oil, they have to compete with the products of
works run at much lower labor-cost; there is a very limited
local market, and that is subject to the same competition ;
and the candles produced by this co. have, even in the
Australian market, to bump against foreign goods pro-
duced in countries where,in some cases, the workman is
paid only about half as much as he is here.
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Written Re-
Dec.. Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1900 £2460 lOp.c. =£92 12p.c.= £685 £4Ol £3771
1901 2450 10 ~ ~ 94 15 ~ ~ 1010 397 4730
1902 3152 10 ~ ~ 94 25 ~ ~ 2313 390 5415
1.103 2509 10 ~ ~ 95 25 ~ ~ 20C0 368 5561
1904 2898 10 ~ ~ 98 30 „ „ 2525 295 5541
June, „
1905 ' 2002 7543
The figures for the half-year are excellent; gross earnings
from commissions, etc., amounted to £4617, against £3848
in the first ha f of 1904, and £3409 in 1903. Profits are
divided at the end of the year.
The troubles of the big Equitable life-assurance
office illustrate how an apparently good law is liable to
spring up and hit you. It isn’t the Equitable’s fault,
primarily, that it isn’t a mutual office —it is the fault of
just such an Act as that. For 50 years it has been the
law in New York (and England has much the same law)
that no new life office may start without depositing
£20,000 with the Government; and that provision, which
looks just the thing to prevent wild cats getting their
claws into a confiding public, has had the effect of prac-
tically barring the purely mutual office. The law pre-
vents the public being scratched at the start all right;
but, as it turns out, in some cases it only postpones the
scratching till the claws grow longer and stronger.
V * * *
The sort of thing that is liable to happen to
policy-holders in the 1.0. F., or in any of the “ fraternal ”
insurance affairs, has been happening to the people who
went into the Mutual Reserve Life Co., in England. An
insurer lately sought to recover on the g-round of mis-
representation ; he had been told in 1898 that he would
only have to pay Bs. 4d. every two months, but the assess-
ments grew till they reached 16s. Bd. Then he kicked.
But Justice Barwell told him to save the kicks for him-
self ; his only course was to drop out. Still, the court
gave its own opinion of the “fraternal” humbug by
refusing it costs with great scorn.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.’s recent
history
Ore, Silver, Lead, Gross Divi-
tons. ounces. tons. Profits, dends.
Nov., 1898 204,067 2,691,546 15,190 £152,876 £144,000
May, 1899 212,693 2,218,234 17,823 142,180 144,000
Nov., 1899 206,193 2,502,463 17,831 144,492 96,000
May, 1900 232,487 2,175,422 15,472 129,576 96,000
Nov., 1900 293,451 8,780,937 21,855 167,795 120,000
May, 1901 296,389 3,009,164 27,569 102,505 120,000
Nov., 1901 305,628 2,683,946 30,457 56,293 48,000
May, 1902 308,878 2,554,169 32,289 68,236 48,000
Nov., 1902 334,709 2,798,020 33,522 73,459 48,000
May, 1903 259,263 2,419,367 32,029 77,963 48,000
Nov., 1903 283,282 2,462,776 30,808 91,999 48,000
May, 1904 305,512 2,525,576 34,280 126,874 120,000
Nov., 1904 324,535 2,564,342 35,552 158,274 96,000
May, 1905 297,827 2,705,929 35,267 170,149 144,000
From the half-year’s g'ross profit £22,478 has to be written
off for depreciation. The price realised for lead was £ll
6s. 4d., against £lO 14s. in the May-November half-year,
and £lO 6s. Id. twelve months ago. Silver has been Jd.
better than in the previous half, and IJd. better than 12
months ago. Compared with the first half of 1904 the
improvement in the lead market has been responsible for,
say, £35,000 of the extra profit and the better silver mar-
ket for £14,000 ; together £49,000. Practically, therefore,
the whole gxtra profit has come out of improved markets,
assuming that the ore treat ed has continued of the same
grade. In addition to the ore shown above as treated,
61,786 tons of slimes were re-treated —roasted and either
smelted or prepared for smelting. This is an increase on
all previous records, and accounts for probably the whole
of the apparent increase in the metal contents of the
ore. The extractions of metals appear to have been
slightly improved, but costs have been rather heavier;
and practically, except for the improved markets, mat-
ters remain just about where they were 12 months ago.
■X * * *
Announcement that B.H. Prop’s past half-
year’s profit per ton of ore was 9s. lid., against Bs. sd.
previous half, and 7s. twelve months ago, needs explain-
ing. It works out at that if only the crude ore is taken
into account. But, then, in addition to crude ore, 57,301
tons of slimes were smelted last half, against 47,103
previous half, and about 40,000 tons in the half-year
before that ; and this stuff is supposed to give a profit of
over £1 per ton. Besides, 12,851 tons of zinc concentrates
were produced last half, against 8104 tons previous half.
The extra profit hasn’t thus by any means all come out of
the crude ore which has been passing through the mills
and smelters.
The B.H. Prop, has now finished its 20th year.
Here are some of its records :
Net proceeds of metals .. .. £26,792,743
Working expenses .. .. .. £17,123,774
Dividends from mining .. .. £7,984,000
Present reserves £745,970
Ore mined, tons .. .. .. 7,747,306
Lead produced, tons 733,025
Copper, tons 4,576
Antimonial lead, tons... . . •• 7,201
Silver, oz. 129,740,728
Gold, oz. .. • • 82,933
Present number of shareholders .. 7,800
Of the 960,000 shares, 376,746 are now on the Australian
and 583,254 on the London register.
****
When the B.H. Prop, issued its prospectus, on
June 29, 1885, it looked a fairly cheeky proposal. Of the
16,000 shares, the promoters took all but 2000 ; they were
offered for £9, all being then issued as paid to £l9. The
promoters took £3OOO, leaving the co. with £15,000.
Years afterwards, when the co. wanted to he quoted on
Bull’s Exchange, the odd £1 was called up and at once
returned. The provisional directors were George M‘Cul-
loch, of Mt. Gipps station (on which Broken Hill stands),
Bowes Kelly, Harvey Patterson (still the chairman), the
late K. E. Brodribb, W. Jamieson, W. A. Horn (an Ade-
laide broker), J. W. Bakewell (an Adelaide solicitor), the
late W. R. Wilson (the one man in the crowd who knew
much about mining), and S. F. Hawkins, a sub-manager
on M‘Culloch’s station. Bowes Kelly, Patterson, and
Brodribb were squatters up that way. Charles Chappie,
then of Silverton, now of Adelaide, was secre-
tary. There was a shaft down at that time to
150 ft. and two crosscuts through the lode ; a sample of
five bags assayed 118 oz. “The whole width is believed
to be highly payable,” said the prospectus. They work
Boz. ore nowadays and make their profit from it. Still,
in case the 118 oz. stuff shouldn’t be payable, the generous
promotors threw in half-a-dozen other leases—one of them
at the Nine Mile, five or six miles away, “ traversed by a
strong galena lode, giving fair assay results, and which
may in itself prove a valuable property.” Three or four
claims were worked for a few years at the Nine Mile,
but the district has long since been abandoned. In spite
of the added attraction of a claim at the Nine Mile, the
2000 shares took a deal of pushing. One of the best
“ barrackers ” the show had was J. S. Reid, who then
ran the long-since-defunct Silver Age at Silverton, and
didn’t have to trouble about running a way-back weekly
paper much longer. Silverton, which is now a township
consisting of a deserted brewery, an elaborate gaol which
hasn’t been used for years, and a large number of semi-wild
goats, was then the hub of the Barrier ; Purnamoota and
Thackaringa were the fields (they now support about a
dozen men each), and Broken Hill was an outsider. In
fact, Charles Rasp, the Mt. Gipps boundary-rider who told
M‘Culloch it was worth pegging out, reckoned that it was
a tin mine ; it was the.-black, rough ironstone capping of
the vast lode that deceived him. M'Cullooh, who had
the biggest original interest, and stuck to it (for many
years, at any rate), has been living in England for 15
years ; his hobby now is pictures. Rasp settled in Ade-
laide.
* * * *
The first shipment of ore from the Barrier to
Europe hasn’t been delivered yet—and it s just 30 years
since it left. P. Green was a storekeeper at Menindie, a
township on the Darling which was more or less flourish-
ing in the days of Burke and Wills, and 60 miles or so
from the field. Occasional travellers from way-back
brought in slugs of galena ; the black stuff that overlaid
the richer lode didn’t attract the non-professional eye.
At last Green went out and pegged The Pioneer, at
Thackaringa, got out six tons of the stuff that looked
brightest, and put it on a river boat. Something hap-
pened to the boat, and the Barrier’s first shipment was
thrown overboard. That damped Green’s enthusiasm ;
and it wasn’t till 1881 that any more ore was sent away
from there.
* * * *
B. H. North will be the first Barrier mine to
put the De Ba\ay zinc process to practical use. This
system, first mention ;d 12 months ago, is a Melb.
chemist’s invention, and depends on flotation of metals.
Some Block 10 people were early interested in it, and it
looked as though that mine would have first show ; but
the North has fixed up an agreement, under which the
De Bavay Co. will put up a plant to treat first 150 tons
and then 1000 tons a week, the co. selling its tailings on a
percentage basis, exact terms of which have not been dis-
closed.
* * * *
The Smelting and Refining Co. of Australia,
nominal owner of the Dapto (N.S.W.) works, is being
wound up, and the Consolidated Nickel Mines, Ltd.,
mostly of New Caledonia, takes the concern over. The
Smelting Co.’s record has been about as bad as it could
be. It was a blunder to put the works at Dapto, in the
first place ; and that was followed by something worse
than blunder. When Kalgoorlie was gouging out its mar-
vellous stuff, these works made a good contract for the
ore ; on the strength of the phenomenal output (of some-
body else’s gold), shares were boomed to over £2. It was
to pay the co.’s for this gold and let them declare prompt
divs., that the Smelting Co. got heavy advances 'from
Dalgety’s, who eventually shut down on the co., and then
the bailiff walked in both in London and at Dapto. Some
of the methods used to work up the 1902-3 boom smelt
worse than a butter scandal. After the rich Kalgoorlie
stuff was done, output slumped,.,of course; and then the
co., in its struggle for ore to keep its works going, tried
to knock out some other smelting concerns, and got badly
mauled itself. The part of J. Bull that bought at £2 and
over will probably curse Australia for taking it down ;
though the fact is that it was Bull eating Bull all the time
—Australia was simply an onlooker from first to last.
* * * *
Divs. paid by W.A. mines during July totalled
£319,111, against £220,205 for July, 1904Fingall,
£lOO,OOO ; Ivanhoe, £50,000 ; Associated, £49,536 ; Per-
severance, £35,000; Associated Northern, £35,000;
Gwalia, £24,375 ; Kalgurli, £15,000 ; Golden Pole, £7500 ;
Ida H., £2700. For first seven months of year divs. were
£1,467,741, against £1,247,306, an increase of £220,435,
although output of gold shrank 19,2420 z., or say £81,700.
* * * *
Golden Pole, Davyliurst (W.A.), is still the
shuttlecock of the market. Main points of contention
are tonnage of ore reserves, possibilities of 400 ft. level,
and success or failure of residue treatment process.
Nat. Harper, who is now consulting engineer, is opti-
mistic on all these points, and estimates ore reserves
at 50,000 tons, or two years’ supply. This is nearly double
what he estimated them at six months ago, since when
no new level has been opened, although old levels have
been extended, and 14,000 tons treated. On face of it,
one of these estimates appears haphazard. As to treat-
ment of residues, the refractory nature of the ore is
admitted, and the residues have been allowed to accumu-
late owing to this. The erratic nature of the reef makes
it difficult to estimate reserves, and the other two points
in debate can only be solved by time. It is noticeable
that the grade of ore is gradually falling. In May it was
worth 119 s. per ton, with a profit of £B4OO, whereas in
July it was worth only 108 s. 6d. per ton, with a profit of
£7500, only enough to meet current div. This is, of
course, exclusive of residues, worth 30s. a ton if the gold
can be saved.
* * * *
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.), con-
tinues to improve its position. During July co. treated
1900 tons for a profit of £lBOO, and, from present appear-
ance of mine, it looks as if this rate of profit could be
maintained for some time. It is, however, useless to
overlook the fact that reserves of ore are far too small to
give any real security, though this drawback is being
remedied by degrees. Co. is over-capitalised, and is not
in strong hands.
(Continued on page 30).


■jU* 4 *
Price 16s. 6d.
How to Order the
“ORIENT’ 3 BOOT
And Insure
A FIT.
DIRECTIONS.—Take a sheet of paper and place it on the floor.
Place your foot upon it, and, with a pencil held upright, mark the
shape of your foot on the paper. (See diagram.) Take three
slips of paper and mark as diagram—Heel, Instep, and Joint,
measure round
each portion
of foot as
shown ; in do-
ing this let the
paper touch
without draw-
ing it tight.
Take measure-
ments with
socks on.
These Goods
Sent Post
Free.
We keep a
record of your size so that you may repeat order at any future date.
Boot as -jj gg in Black
Illustration,
in Tan Willow Calf *J g , g
Calf ) or Black Vici Kid,
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
SYDNEY.
HEEL
INSTEP
JOINT
HARRINGTONS
CENTURA N°s
Centura No. 3
Hand Camera
Size of Photograph, 4J x 3J.
For Daylight Roll Films or Glass Plates.
With Book of Instructions.
Tourists and Others
Requiring a first-class, neat and compact Camera,
suitable for taking Portraits, Groups and Views,
will appreciate the No. 3 CENTURA. It is one of
the most perfect and compact Cameras ever offered.
It folds flat, and will slip easily into the coat pocket.
SIMPLE TO OPERATE.
Fitted with Beck Rapid Symmetrical Lens,
with Iris Time and Instantaneous Shutter,
Removable Back for inserting Focussing
Screen and Dark Slides, &c., &c.
PRICE, complete, for Films - £4 12 6
Focussing Screen for Plates * 2 6
Metal Dark Slides, each - * 2 6
386 GEORGE ST., c??.o. SYDNEY, 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
Society
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY
certainly as healthy a resting place, and some-
times as comfortable, as man or woman could
desire. It gives a wide outlook on life and
broadens the mind. Getting up is good exercise,
and getting down strengthens the muscles. In
some places whole communities of people sleep in
the trees, using ropes of vines as ladders. As
near as New Guinea such habitations are common.
There are no pigs or usurers up trees, and very
few anti-Socialists or people who take secret
commissions. Where there are wild beasts trees
are indispensable ; where there are larrikins and
brass, bands they are useful; and even where there
are none of these, trees, regarded as sleeping
abodes, are far superior to the average humpy.
Some years ago the writer recommended a squatter
to burn the shearers’ huts and make his men camp
in the trees along the river, but, like the police,
lie thought it against the law, and stuck to the
old pig-stye habit of housing his men.
. * * * *
Experience of the St. Vincent’s Hospital
(Melbourne) art union impresses again the evil of
the system which leaves to “ private charity ” the
upkeep of hospitals, and seems to necessarily entail
crooked methods of stimulating that “ private
charity.” St. Vincent’s organised an art union
with money prizes. That was in itself illegal.
The prizes bore a shockingly meagre proportion to
the value of the tickets sold, so that the public got
nothing like a fair gamble for its money. To crown
all, a swindler so manipulated the drawing that
all the big cash prizes fell to him. These
latter incidents are, after all, only of importance
in calling more marked attention to the facts
that the lottery was illegal, and was so conducted
as not to give anything like a fair gamble. It is
pitiful that the nuns of St. Vincent should have to
adopt such methods to enable them to carry on
their hospital work. The State should take
over all hospitals—employing, maybe, present
organisations such as St. Vincent’s as the French
State and municipal hospitals employ the Sisters
of Mercy—and put an end to these art-union scan-
dals. An even more unpleasant art-union
scandal than the St. Vincent’s was that of
Mt. Kembla (Sydney). Ostensibly to help the
widows and orphans of the Mt. Kembla disaster,
an art-union was organised with motor-cars as
prizes. Nearly £3OOO worth of tickets were sold,
and all the money was absorbed in expenses, etc.
Not one penny reached the Mt. Kembla fund.
» * * *
The N.D.L. steamer Prinz Waldemar, on
its last trip, brought 23 Chinese stowaways as far
as Sydney. The din that ensued is still ringing
in the company’s ears; but on its very next
voyage the ship managed to leave Kobe with 14
stowaways on board. One morning a young
Japanese girl was found strangled on the deck.
The officers, in their stolid German way, regarded
this discovery as suspicious, seeing that no women
were legitimately on board. After a search, 13
brown girls, all in their teens, were found hidden
in the lifeboats, cn route to Hong Kong for the
brown girl’s usual purpose. It appears that this
illicit traffic to Hong Kong and other ports is
carried on to such an extent that hardly a vessel
leaves Kobe or Yokohama without an attempt
being made to send out Japan’s best-known
export. The story of the strangled girl is still
wrapped in gloom.
* * * *
“ Nulla ” : I always thought that making
gloves and hats from the skin, and dog-biscuits
and chicken-broth from the flesh, exhausted the
usefulness of the rabbit, until I saw a “ wile
JUDGED.
She : “He threatened to kiss me !”
She : “And then he didn't do it."
Her: “I thought he was a brute."
Her: “I knew he was no gentleman ."
Mrs. Gallagher, the old Prahran (Vic.)
woman, who, according to the constable, roosted
up in trees in the parks at night, and who was
given 12 months’ gaol for her eccentricity, might
have had a good deal of legal argument urged in
her favor if she had been a land agent. A tree is
rabbi ” merchant urging his patient steed up
Barrack Hill, Sydney, by flogging it with a large
bunny. The whip seemed efficacious, and even if
not very durable it would be easy to sell it
when it began to show signs of wear, and sort out
another one from the stock.
ANOTHER BIRTHRATE ITEM.
TEACHER: “Mow, when Adam and Eve were turned out of Eden they had a great trouble.
Can anyone tell me what it was? ”
INTELLIGENT SMALL GIRL : “ Please , Miss, they 'ad a baby."
Father Hays, the latest teetotal crusader,
has hardly reached his home yet, and already the
bottom is dropping out of his good work. A Mel-
bourne woman, who sued her husband lately for
maintenance, assured the bench that “he is good
to me when he is sober. We both went to one of
Father Hays’ lectures and took the pledge. A
whole lot of us went, but the men have all turned
back, and I was the only woman amongst them.”
♦ * * *
Melbourne Telephone Exchange stands
convicted of having knocked off business for a
while in the middle of the other day, in order
that the entire staff might get itself photographed
in a group. The group photograph is a pet vice
with every sort of organised body of Melbourne
folk, who can get the picture reproduced in
Paunch or elsewhere. Cricketers, footballers,
rowers, golfers, bowlers, tennissians, croqueteers,
&c., &c., have got it badly. The employees of
Brown’s factory, Jones’mills, and Smith’s empo-
rium are willing subjects for the photograph
fiend, and why shouldn’t the Telephone staff
figure as a band of heroes? Their group photo.,
which caused all the subscribers to be “rung off”
for 20 minutes or so, is being officially treated as
a public outrage because it fetched a com-
plaint from the Fire Brigade headquarters, but
as regards ordinary Telephone ratepayers the
Exchange might as well be closed half-'an-hour
every day during the luncheon period. One may
certainly get an answer to a ring, but the answer
(from the Exchange) is always the same. The.
number asked for is “engaged.” You may ring
ten several times at intervals of three minutes and
the answer is ever—“engaged.” On subsequent
enquiry from the subscriber whose number you
couldn’t get “on ” to, you learn that he also was
unable to ’phone to anybody at the particular
time when the Exchange adopts an obstructive
policy. Perhaps the Government will “issue
such instructions as will obviate any similar occur-
rence in the future.”
* » »
Victorian Law has just made an exhibition
of itself in an unusual fashion. A Sydney girl,
visiting some Melbourne friends, developed mania.
She was not supposed to be dangerous and needed
little more than care and attention to ensure her
recovery, so her relatives were sent for. In the
meantime the local police asked that she be re-
manded —on the usual charge of “insulting
behavior.” But the P.M. decided that there
was no evidence of riotous behavior, and
that if she were non compos she must be so charged,
examined and sent to an asylum. This was done.
A few days later, her brother came from Sydney
to take her home, and learned that, under Vic-
torian law, when once the State has put a lunatic
in its foul, antiquated, overcrowded asylum, he or
she cannot be surrendered until completely cured,
or dead. So the brother had to go home leaving
his sister in an institution where hardly anybody
is ever cured, and where the neglected lunatics
are piled on top of one another for want of space
and breathing room.
Launceston Examiner, starting out to.
curse Industrial Arbitration, the other day, re-
marked :
Mr. Want, the N.S.W. Attorney-General, has reluctantly
acknowledged that it is practically impossible to compel
men to work if they are minded not to. Anyone with
any pretensions to perspicacity would have recognised
that from the outset.
A wise newspaper ! But, incidentally, a leader-
writer without pretensions to perspicacity, per-
spicuity, perceptivity or peripateticism, but with
just a little permeability or horse sense, could easily
ascertain that Mr. Want is not N.S.W. Attorney-
General. It is an unconvincing gentleman who
preens himself pompously on his perspicacity and
proudly peers prophetically into the future, and yet
is as shockingly ignorant of the political present
as the platypus or the porcupine. Such a party
ought to go and peck with the poultry or precipi-
tately pursue the pig across Paphlagonia.
HARD TO BELIEVE.
“ Yes, it's quite true; I never use models.”
“B.”: The silly agitation that tram-
conductors, drivers, and policemen should not be
allowed to sit in the N.S.W. State trams while a
paying member of the public stands is stupidly
abetted by the Commissioners. What about the
Commissioners themselves ? What about other
heads of the Public Service and other dead-heads ?
Does the Premier or the Inspector-General of
Police jump up when a paying passenger steps
into a crowded tram ?
BROWN’S SATIRE IN A CITY CHURCHYARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is proposed to build a market on the site of the old
Melbourne cemetery.
Here lie the bones of pioneers,
The strug'glers of the early years,
Who came to gather in the gold,
And gained a six foot bed of mould.
They left the over-peopled North,
With courage and with tears went forth
To where the flowing leagues lay fair
To which the Son of Toil was heir.
They dreamed an ample ardent dream,
Pursued an ignis fatuus gleam,
Of gold, across the ocean flung
They followed—they were bold and young.
A large and loving continent,
Benignly smiled in blandishment,
And whispered “ Wealth ” in undertones
She gave a place to lay their bones.
They clenched their empty hands and died,
Thej' cursed the mocking gleam that lied,
Or ’chance they prayed that underground
The fortune of “ Deep Peace ” be found.
They gathered peace, the grasses grew
Above their bones, and ’neath the dew
It seemed a calm neglected spot
Wherein the monuments might rot.
O skull of Yorick ! empty long,
A theme for philosophic song,
There in that niould dissolve the hearts
Whereon men come to build their marts.
Ye rude forefathers, where’s your right
To crumble on a building site ?
How dare ye cumber Beal Estate
While flurried market gardeners wait ?
Off with your too immortal bones,
A new race ail this city owns.
Your deathright and our birthright clash,
We know no sentiment, save Cash.
For old Mortality or young,
You’re dead, and cannot use your tongue.
The dead must give the living room
To barter victuals o’er the tomb.
Perhaps your souls, in their abode,
Are not in anybody’s road,
But having a perpetual lease,
Ad infinitum rest in peace.
\ ic.
J. BROWN.


ENMANSHIP.
BUSINESS WRITING, DESIGNING,
BLOCK LETTERING, ENGROSSING,
successfully taught by Mail.
“ HOME STUDY ” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney. [4
I dreamt that I tossed on a fever’d bed
(With the curtains gather’d and drawn),
With a hacking cough and a burning head,
Vainly waiting the tardy dawn.
When close to my bedside an angel came,
With a phial of liquid pure,
And I read on the label a magic name—
It was Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
*7
Fine Art & Genera / Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KDVG- STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
' :
THIS IS FOR you. % *
I put in the excellent Tailoring, the best
materials, and the fine points of style that
are required to make absolutely smart,
satisfactory suits.
The name, R. C. HAGON, is known
\ throughout the Commonwealth, and stands
as guarantee for every garment sent out.
/ When you want a suit on these lines, write
for Patterns, Self-measurement Forms, and
Fashion Plates—all Free.
All Orders sent Post Free to any Address.
Rf LBII AtJ merchant
■ V- rinUl UN 5 TAILOR, ...
129 King Street, SYDNEY.
WHAT UPSET HER.
MISTRESS : “Aren’t you well, Mary?”
MARY : “No, mum.”
MISTRESS : “Taken something that hasn’t agreed
with you?”
MARY : “ Yes, mum—this situation.”
Fresh appointments to N S.W. public ser-
vice have, by decree of Carruthers, been stopped
as far as the public examinations created by the
Public Service Act (1895)are concerned. Vacancies
in the junior ranks are generally tilled by recruits
from the ranks of pupil teachers. This has brought
about an anomalous position. When the embryo
State’school pedagogue reaches the dizzy height
of £4O a year he is subjected to an examination.
If he passes he is entitled (on paper) to an increase
of pay,(some day), and is set on the thorny road
whose goal (in theory) is the Under-Secretaryship
of the Department. Should he fail, he is trans-
ferred to the clerical division of the Public Service
in some other Department at the minimum of
£5O, an immediate rise of £lO, with the right to
a definite system of increments. Experience
shows that those fortunate enough to fail at the
test are doing much better than those stupid
enough to pass, and it is rumored that pupil
teachers have begun to realise this, and intend to
reduce failure to a fine art for the future.
The evidence in the case of young
Farrelly, charged in Melbourne with larceny from
Reuter’s Cable Agency, threw some further light
on the methods of commercialism. Reuter’s
manager said that when a message was handed in
it was coded (a charge being made for coding),
and the sender charged then at schedule rates;
but “ afterwards the message might be re-coded ;
if it could be reduced to one word we would be
justified in doing so. We make all the profit we
can.” Reuter's paid Farrelly at first ss. a week ;
he rose gradually by shillings and half-crowns to
335. a week in July, ’O4. In three of the cases
on which he was committed Farrelly was charged
with pocketing trifling sums, this re-coding differ-
ence. It is not a wise company that plays such
tricks on the public, and then employs a 335.-a-
-week clerk to work them. And people are already
beginning to wonder if it would be any more
honest for the co. to pocket the difference than
for the co.’s clerk to do so.
* * * »
It is considered that bylaw 36, lately
gazetted by N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, im-
posing a £5 penalty for throwing empty bottles
out of carriage windows, will press severely upon
itinerant temperance lecturers. These are terribly
thirsty men, some carrying, even on short journeys,
as many»as four bottles of cold tea and three of
lemonade, and, if not allowed to throw the empties
out of the window, the accumulation will give un-
charitable people room to scoff. A movement is
on foot to induce the Commissioners to withdraw
the bylaw.
“ Gr.H.” : I witnessed a tragedy in a
chiffon-emporium last year. Mrs. Blank, wife of
a citizen who paid a
few small brown coins
in the £ a few years
ago, drove up in her
gorgeous kerndge and
requested to be shown
some passementerie.
The shop - pedestrian
provided the stately
Mrs. Blank with a
chair, expressed his
approval of the way
God was making the
weather, and then re-
tired. Presently he
branched off to bow to
Mrs. Dash, of Toorak,
who had driven up in
the Stanhope main-
tained by her pore in-
solvent husband. Mrs.
Blank arose from her
chair, and the shop-
walker, thinking that
she wasleaving, handed
the chair to Mrs. Dash.
Mrs. Blank, however,
on second thoughts,
sat down again where
the chair had been but
wasn t. She struck the
floor with a great noise,
and the managing-
director rushed out of
his office with the idea
that the shop-walker
was drunk and had
knocked down a
wealthy customer. He
found Mrs. Blank in a
state of dishevelment
on the carpet, whilst
Mrs. Dash looked on
with loud applause.
The Blanks and the
Dashs are in two differ-
ent sets —though the
two husbands filed the
same kind of document
in the same year —and
they hate one another
a good deal. This was
a year ago. The inci-
dent was recalled to
my mind when I recog-
nised the shop-walker
last week sweeping the
doorstep of a poor little rag shop. His life’s
career ended, I presume, the moment Mrs. Blank
struck the floor. A shop-walker sacked with a
curse instead of a character has as poor a show as
a captain who has lost his ship and taken to drink-
ing in waterside public-houses.
Bananaland seems to have abandoned all
hope of ever exterminating its prickly-pear, which
now holds undisputed possession of tens of thou-
sands of acres. The new Land Bill proposes to
give the worst of the infested lands free to occu-
piers on long leases, but this concession will pro-
bably only attract men to .take up the best patches
on the areas not yet thickly over-run. In some
districts the pear, in a dense, impenetrable mass,
stands 20ft. to 30ft. high, and if it were not for the
spines, a man might walk on the top of it, or,
possibly, drive a dray there. Some clearing re-
cently carried out by the State cost £lO per acre,
and if the cleared land is not quickly put under
crop, the evil will soon be as pronounced as ever.
The man who can discover a means of economi-
cally getting rid of the prickly curse will be a
benefactor. The Bulletin, by the way, knows a
man with a scheme for destruction by electricity.
* * * *
“ J.P.” : This is the “ less” age —horse-
less carriages, wireless telegraphs, workless men,
hopeless women, godless parsons, mannerless chil-
dren, worthless politicians, faithless statesmen,
and toothless inhabitants.
Concerning
telephones
and what you
pay for not
getting what
you want: —
The number
of ways in which
you can pay for
a telephone ser-
vice, and not
get what you
want by any of
them, is amaz-
ing. Generally
speaking, how-
ever, you get
more for your
money in Aus-
tralia than in
any other part
of the world.
In London, Pri-
vate Enterprise
supplies for £l7
a year what in
SydneyandMel
bourne you can
get for £9 (or
£5 in the case
of a private
house); or if
you don’t like
to pay £l7, you
can pay £5 sub-
scription and a
penny per call.
New York
charges are ap-
palling—£l2 a
year for 600
messages, and
thereafter on
the basis of
about 4d. a talk.
Private Enter-
prise in tele-
phones takes
care not to hit
Private Enter-
prise in tele-
graphs too
hard ; for the
two have, to a
great extent,
only one pocket
in New York.
What London
pays £l7 to Pri-
vate Enterprise
for, Glasgow
gets through its
municipality for
£5 ss. ; and
there aren’t
many services
in the world
cheaper than
that. In Stockholm, Sweden, the annual subscription is
£4 Bs. XOd. ; but there is an entrance-fee of £2 15s. 6d.
Tasmania has the cheapest service in Australasia, the
tariff getting down to £4 10s. for a private house ; and S.
Australia, where they charge £lO for business telephones,
has the dearest. In Switzerland they have a sort of sliding
scale ; the longer you have been ordering the breakfast
sausages by ’phone, the less they charge you fordoing it,
till you can almost order them for nothing.
* * * *
Justice Homburg, of S. Australia, has
begun to play tricks with his liver. In the Ade-
laide Criminal Court, during the winter sessions,
he sat one day from 10 in the morning till past
midnight; next morning he was at it again at 10
and sat right through till 3 o’clock without a
break. When the hungry jury, after hearing
what looked like a hostile summing-up, filed out
and then promptly filed back again, and said
“Not Guilty,” Judge Homburg couldn’t believe
it. “Of course I must accept your verdict,” said
’sonah; “but” (to the accused) “if the jury
had known your record, the verdict might have
been different.” Nobody told the Judge that if
the jury hadn’t gone without its lunch the verdict
might also have been different. And yet it’s just
as likely. The previous day, a man, who had been
following an intricate case for about 10 hours, had
to fight for his liberty shortly before midnight;
and midnight was striking when a fagged jury,
which had been sitting since the morning, had to
decide whether the man was guilty or not.
* * * *
Ballarat appears to be a place where you
are liable at any moment to be assured on the
highest official authority that you are dead and
have been in that state for some time —if you
weren’t born that way. Recently a mining in-
vestor was served with a notice to the effect that,
being dead, his name was evidently on the electoral
roll under a misapprehension that the Absent
Voters provision extended toanotherand a better—
or much worse—world ; and now the local registrar
has been officially called upon to furnish particu-
lars regarding the death of a solicitor whose dead-
ness up to that time hadn’t occurred to the person
most interested in the matter. If this sort of
thing goes on, when anybody at Ballarat happens
to remember that he is alive, it will become neces-
sary for him to go to the paper and advertise to
that effect.
* -< * *
A condensed love story by M. Lloyd :
“ What will Gustave say when I tell him I have a billet
at $2 a week ? ” mused Elizabeth, waiting for the train.
“ Will he say, reproachfully: ‘ Why talk of mercenary
things ? Sordid girl! You have no billet outside my
arms.’
“ Will he say, jealously: ‘I cannot spare you. I want
you all to myself. It will be the crowning joy of my life
to take care of you and shield you from toil and care and
worry and billets.’
“ Will he say, rapturously: ‘Billet? Hush, beloved!
Words are vain sounds. My sight is so ravished by your
dear face that I can hear nothing. Ah, this blessed
night! ’
The train arrived.
“ Gustave, I have a billet at £2 a week,” said Elizabeth,
thrillingly.
“ Is it permanent ? ” said Gustave.
A MODERN VERSION.
MRS. POTIPHAR : “ When I see Dolly spooning with her boy I feel as if I'd
like someone to cuddle me.”
THAT AGGRAVATING JOSEPH : “ Yaas, I suppose so.”
Thusfar the published explanations of how
the Melbourne St. Vincent’s Hospital lottery
swindle was worked have been quite as unsatis-
factory as the swindle itself. The first statement
turned upon the allegation that two barrels of
marbles were necessary to the drawing, and this
has not been denied by the official scrutineers—
presuming that the performance was scrutinised
at all. One barrel contained marbles numbered
from 1 to 999, the other was loaded with marbles
representing “thousands,” and a marble was
drawn from each barrel simultaneously, the total
number of<possible combinations being 419,000, it
was said. Nothing was said of the impossibility
of a prize going to any ticket numbered below
1000 if each drawing was to include a marble from
the barrel of thousands. At that rate the lowest
possible combination of numbers would be 1001.
But a second edition of the swindle story was a
flat contradiction of the first as regards both
the issue of tickets and the working of the
fraud. The public now had it that only
50,000 sixpenny tickets were sold (the expenses
amounting to nearly half the receipts) whereas it
had been previously stated that “ about one third ”
of 419,000 tickets were sold. And the story about
the two barrels became shrouded in incomprehen-
sibility by the further discovery that Naughton
had really drawn the five winning marbles from
one barrel which seemingly contained the whole
50,000 numbered in rotation. Or, rather, he drew
the five marbles by trickery from a tube where he
had secreted them. The mystery as to how
Naughton secured all the prizes by means of five
marbles from only one barrel, if there were two
barrels employed in the drawing, is a profound
mystery in itself. “Explanations” are further
complicated by the indiscriminate use of the words
1 ‘ barrel ’or “ barrels ” in the conflicting confes-
sions and reports which have been published. If
the truth has come out to the satisfaction of the
police and press inquirers—where is it? Did it
come out of one barrel or two bari'els ?
* * * *
A Melbourne Age man recently displayed
feverish anxiety to pile admiring epithets on a
much-boomed detective who knew the elements of
his business well enough to search for evidence, in
the St. Vincent’s art-union ease, in the marks on a
blotting-pad. The idea is probably as old as the
invention of blotting-paper. At any rate, the
detectives of Wilkie Collins and other old-time
fictionists followed it out; and many a jealous wife
or husband in real life has sought traces of love-
letters to the third person in the same way.
Surely it is not necessary to gush over a detective
because he remembers one of the most ancient
tricks of his trade.
MES. GRUNDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lovely morning, Mr. Jones ! ”
“ Perfect weather, Mrs. Grundy ! ”
Listen to their quiet tones,
While the Voluntary drones,
Out among the old tombstones,
After church upon the Sunday.
For a virtuous name she bears,
And has dainty, modest airs,
And a charming frock she wears
When he humps her books on Sunday.
But where’s Leander Jones,
And where’s Diana Grundy,
When the full moon floods the sea,
Telling of inconstancy,
And the stars appear to be
Less fixed, and more than free
At ten p.m. on Monday?
Laughter rippling on the sand,
Hearts that surely understand,
Earth and sea go hand in hand,
In spite of church on Sunday.
“ Lovely morning, Mr. Jones ! ”
“ Perfect weather, Mrs. Grundy ! ”
They can’t disguise their happy tones,
After church next Sunday.
In vain the Voluntary drones
Out among the grey tombstones,
E’en the best ancestral bones
Tire of eternal Sunday,
When o’er them sweet Diana Grundy
Whispers to good Leander Jones,
“ Ten p.m. on Monday.”
N.S.W.
D.


Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
> ll^>.
FINEST EXTRA Q?
It was sworn, at an inquest on a gas-stoker
in Melbourne, lately, that “there was an inch of
coal-dust on the floor of the stoke-house. There
was coal-dust and grit in deceased’s eyes, nose atid
mouth. The lungs were distended and congested,
the heart enlarged and dilated. The back of the
throat, bronchial tubes and windpipe contained a
quantity of black dust and grit. . The cause of
death was suffocation from the inhalation of coal-
dust.” Verdict accordingly. No remarks about
the gas co. which allowed that inch of coal-dust on
the floor of the stoke-house.
“ Guide To Beauty ’’—Free ! We will.be glad
to send this book free to any applicant. It tells
all about the wonderful Valaze. Valaze works
with a magic power on the skin. It cleanses the
pores and nourishes them with the most perfect
combination of ingredients ever incorporated to-
gether in one jar. That makes beautiful com-
plexions. Price 3s. 6d. and 6s» jars; Posted 6d.
extra. Valaze Soap 2s. (lasts six months);
Valaze Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. Cd. packet; Valaze
Skin Tonic, most cooling and refreshing 3s. 6d.
bottle; Valaze Face powder 2s. box (3 tints) to
dust on the face. Ask your chemist or write
Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.*
AHNOIiD’S BALSAM enjoys the prefer-
ment of the most exacting members of the medical
profession. Arnold’s Balsam is most emphatic-
ally of unsurpassed value in the treatment of
Coughs, Bronchitis, Whooping-Cough; it increases
expectoration and invigorates the mucous mem-
brane lining. At present Arnold’s Balsam is en-
joying a larger sale than any other cough remedy,
due to its wonderful curative properties. Sold at
all stores and chemists.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
6*67- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Atisti'alia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTIE & SONS BRISBANE,
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
DUPUY
BRANDY
“eßAtferiETTjE^
K o l Are the Ideal Fabrics
§V RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 22, 1905.
My Dear Arini.
The first beauty-parlor in Sydney run by a man
is in full sesthetical swing in Linden Court. The
man beauty-cultivator is assisted by'a pretty
woman. If they could only get patrons to believe
that the lady had been before “treatment” a
hollow-eyed, freckled apparition with excavations
in her cheeks and lines on her neck, no shine on
he*- hair and too much shine on her nose, they
would do nearly as well as if they were land
agents. Said that members of Parliament are
extensively patronising the parlor. They don’t
mind one of their own sex helping them
attain polished, pearl-like finger nails, to wave at
the Speaker when they rise to develop the great
natural resources of the country, also rippled and
essenced hair like that with which Macaulay says
Charles I. fled from Nasebv, sharply-defined eye-
brows, and an absence of dewlap. When the
legislator’s beauty starts to hang upon the cheek
of night like a rich jewel in a Kanaka’s ear the
sooner the ladies’ gallery is extended all round the
House the better.
Rupert Clarke’s yacht La Carabine is again
in one of our sunlit coves of peace. Her
owner acquired a lot of fine pearls whilst among
the divers in Northern waters, but he seems to
have become home-sick, or perhaps horse-sick.
At all events, he gave the yacht over to a captain
(other than his brother) and hurried off to the
Caulfield races. Yachtsmen smiled smiles the
size of carpet bags last week when the S.M.H.
mentioned that La Carabine had passed some
place or other with her fore-topmast gone. She
never had one.
At a dinner at the Australia, given lately to the
potentates of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club, an
appropriate menu was of fine canvas, like delicate
holland, with a tiny seascape painting, and the
word “menu’’was not spelt out in the ordinary
plain fashion but was represented by signal flags
embossed on the document.
Concerning feeds : If your taste has been culti-
vated, how you recall with sentiments akin to
religious exaltation some elegant browse that
refuses to fade into the infinite azure of the past.
The other day a man was talking to me of
Trieste, apropos of the Panther’s visit, when he
suddenly laid his hand on his solar plexus, turned
his eyes to the zenith where the hallelujah is sup-
posed to be, and said, “ Will I ever forget a meal
1 had there, a few miles inland, at a low-built,
vine-covered hostel! They gave me a leveret
cooked with herbs—oh ! ” And he gave a sigh
like the sound of a large engine coming out of a
great tunnel. I believe hypochondriacs suffer the
same way. I remember hearing an impassioned
description from a bad specimen of the tribe of
some unusual symptoms he had under the shadow
of Pike’s Peak, and a certain bottled remedy he
tried at Yosemite. He said nothing about the
scenery. To him it seemed that a mountain
14,000 ft. high was only a favorable site for
symptoms.
The best-dressed woman on the stage this week
is Mr. John Sheridan in “Mrs. Dooley’s Joke.”
His pale-gold satin evening dress, embroidered
with iridescent beads, is a superb outfit, and the
bunch of crimson roses fastened just where
you get appendicitis does not clash with his
carrotty wig. And his hat in the second
act several inquiries as to the whoseness
of his milliner went round to him. Curious
thing—this actor looks much older in his make-up
as a woman than he does as himself on the stage
or in the street. Concerning the “Joke,” there’s
a really truly beautiful girl among the supers.
She hasn’t a line to say. She sits in the back-
ground and dreams or smiles through the dances,
and everyone says she’s more lovely than Mrs.
Maesmore Morris was at her best.
Mr. T. E. Donne, superintendent of Maori-
land’s State Tourist Department, ran through
Sydney last week, on his way home, after seven-
teen months of American andjOld World travel-
ling. He actually has the U.S. brand on his
speech. That shows the personality—no, the
nationality —of America. Mr. Donne was born at
Tooralr, but left that haunt of double-breasted
plutocracy for M.L. while still in lace pinnies.
He has been on the tops of the highest build-
ings and at the bottoms of the deepest mines in
the world, he has bowed before thrones and
presidents and has been affable to the person
right at the depths of the submerged tenth. He
has looked in every direction where finger-posts
point to tourist resorts in all parts of the world,
and has closely examined the manicuring of the
hand on the post and the way it indicated. Some
of the accumulated knowledge he will utilise for
the International Exhibition to be held at Christ-
church early in the new year.
“Narcissus” Count Peretti etc. is resident in
San Francisco as French pro-Consul. San Fran,
is in luck ! The pictorial aspect of Sydney’s
French Consulate faded with the departure of the
Count and M. Bi.ard D’Aunet. The first looked
such a young-romance-in-being, the second such a
romantic ruin. To put it another way one was
a beautiful sunrise and the other one of the best
things possible in sunsets.
Talking of San Francisco, someone sends me
half a page of an American paper showing a
picture of artist Frank M‘Comas—he was a
Sydneysider—cake-waking out of church with his
bride on his elbow. Probably a snapshot. The
kodak can make the normal look very grotesque.
Miss Marie Louise Parrott, who married Mr.
M‘Comas, is described as a Baltimore belle with
money. You may remember some of M‘Comas’
oaks and cypresses painted in Monterey, and ex-
hibited here about four years ago.
Talking—or jerking—some more about painters
(this week the Artists’ Society opens its Spring
show), I read in the memorials of Edward Burne-
Jones that when he was at work on the Blessed
Damozel he used to travel twenty miles a day to
make studies of the cherry blossoms in a friend’s
garden. In view of the fact that a painter friend
of mine will show a sunflower study at the Arts
Society show, I am moved to quote E. 8.-J. :
“ Did you ever draw a sunflower ? It is a whole
school of drawing and an education in itself. Do
you know what faces they have—how they peep
and peer, and look arch and winning, or bold and
a little insolent ? Have you ever noticed their
back-hair, how beautifully it is curled ? ”
Apropos of Mr. Andrew Mack buying a copy of
“Thomas Little’s Poems” in Sydney a friend
writes
One day in a second-hand bookshop in Newcastle I
turned up in one heap of sixpenny books a partially uncut
copy of “ Thomas Little’s Poems,” an original edition of
“L.E.L.’s Improvisatore and other Poems,” and “Gay’s
Fables” with the original woodcuts. A friend borrowed
“Little’s Poems” and lost it. Two or three years after-
wards I was visiting a sick sailor in one of the slums and
found my copy of “Little” in the room. Some of the
leaves had been torn out for shaving papers. I also bought
quite recently for a shilling a copy of “Bailey’s Dictionary”
and (uncut) two volumes original edition of Paget’s
classical work on Surgical Pathology. Who brought
those books to Australia ?
Dr. Knowles, who married Miss Lily Titheradge,
has started practice in Newcastle. The bright
Lily—still fondly remembered as one of “Two
Little Vagabonds”—was by way of being a tall
bloom on the stage, when she quitted it and a
good salary, to marry her (then) medical student.
Returned travellers talk in notes of exclamation
of the dancing of Madge Titheradge, saying that
she’s the most graceful caperer since Kate
Vaughan.
One of the Euryalus’ aristocratic pieces of artil-
lery (Mr. Blackwood) is very ill in a Sydney
hospital, and the Australian girl who is en-
gaged to him, is sorrowful in consequence.
Talking of Australian girls’ engagements to
British men-of-war: Lady Eanshawe has such
a horror of them that report says she takes
to her bed when each announcement is ,
made. To do her churchy Excellency justice, it is
probably the engagements of non-financial officers
to penniless girls that drive her to a horizontal
position. The naval bi'ass-bound Somebody with
little means cannot afford to marry and hope to
rise in the service, unless the girl supplies the lack
of money.
The things Sydney girls are saying about the
Australian and Union Clubs are enough to set
the clubs’ chimneys on fire. It’s all over the
110-ball-this-year announcements. Poverty, corns,
old age and ingratitude are some of the charges
hurled at the clubmen. But the Euryalus men
will give a dance, so there’s still treacle in Gilead,
as the Treacle Bible puts it, if I remember rightly.
Two of the most delightful personalities in
Sydney these days are Bishop and Mrs. Camidge,
of Bathurst. The lady is a huggable prelatess.
How the cold, chaste beauty of the sculptured
figure does draw, to be sure ! That lady who
poses as a marble statue at the Tivoli has a good
audience—mostly male—every night. Audience
could see the Venuses and Dianas she represents
at first hand in the National Gallery, but of course
the Tivoli is more central than the Gallery, and
it’s gratifying to see the “ statue ” come out of her
trance, and somehow the thing that pretends to be
the other thing seems to draw better than the
other thing itself. Also it is so tantalising to
have only a 20-seconds view of a lady mid
next to nodings but a suit of whitewash on.
,Just as those who “have seen tons of
this sort of thing in Paris ” are sizing up the
image as showing the results of the wearing of
corsets, and telling their neighbors that all the
classic antique female statuary, except the Milo
. and Genetrix Venuses, exhibit the figure of a girl
of not more than 18, darkness drops upon the
luminous white form. As living statuary is so
popular, why doesn’t the Tivoli management try
a group on the public. The “Abduction of
Polyxena ” and the “ Laocoon ” would go well, and,
as male perfection of form is more common than
, female—or the male says it is—there ought to be
no lack of models.
Considerable questioning and answering go
on about the lady who lived at a fashionable
hotel, had a private sitting-room, and played
bridge till the morning star faded to palest silver.
Also as to which man she married. For report
says she was married last Wednesday in a riding
habit.
Talking of very recent brides. One of the inter-
esting species, whilst still in the elect stage, held
a private view of her clothes and presents and his
clothes and the gifts presented to him. The
banana-colored and coral-pink pyjamas elicited an
“ O, my !” of great intensity.
At the preliminary canter at Randwick races
last Saturday, the most looked-at pair were Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Gardner. The lady was in an
up-to-date tailor-made.
Miss Eadith Walker is preening herself for a
voyage to Europe, and I’m told, with more or less
truth, that “ one of Die leading frock makers will
be engaged with her 50 assistants for a month
exclusively on the wealthy one’s clothes.”
Somebody arrivals of the week include Mr. and
Mrs. John Potter, of an English steamship-owning
firm—Birt, Potter and Hughes. The visitors are
camped at the Australia.
Mrs. Williams, wife of the Surgeon-General
Williams who did something very tine and large
out in Africa, where the veldt comes from, is, with
her 17-year old daughter, on a visit to Sydney,
and staying at the Metropole. Mrs. Williams is
a Maorilander, and a sister of Mr. Monty Severn.
An advance-Australia girl, Miss Memes, living
at Balmain, has started as a motor-car-for-hire
proprietor. She has a fine, big, olive-green De
Dion, and she herself is a good driver. She does
not, however, drive her clients. A motorman does
that.
The American Business Man’s Magazine,
July, has a good bit by a lady, on Parisian shop-
ping. She is struck by the universal courtesy, so
different both from America and England. Worth
is no longer ahead, except in heavy stuffs and lace.
Beer is the top couturier. Doucet leads in ball
costumes, Paquin in walking dresses and riding-
habits. Denova is the crack tailor. The Magasins
du Louvre continue unequalled, with the Bon
Marche second, and Magasin du Printemps third.
An Adelaide correspondent writes :
“The Cohen-Krantz wedding, at Adelaide
Town Hall on 16th, was a very smart affair.
There is no doubt the Jewish marriage service can
MRS. W. N. WILLIS.
give points to most knot-tying ceremonials in
picturesqueness and in comfort to the victims.
There is no uneasy and self-conscious ‘ .wait ’ for
the bridegroom before a roomful of guests. Nor
does the bride consider it necessary to be the
orthodox 15 minutes late. On the stroke of three
the Cohen party, with the bridegroom in attend-
ance, entered the hall and took up its stand under
the velvet canopy, while the Jewish choir sang
the bridal chorus from ‘ Lohengrin.’ ”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“Lord Dick Nevill is booked for the private
secretary’s post at StOnington. Melba is also due
here presently, with her big son. The two facts
must have muddled the Yankee journalists, who
immediately associated them, and engaged the
songstress to Lord Dick.
“Rupert Clarke has had the cobwebs cleared
from his luxurious flat, and is abiding there for a
festive while. The little pink fairy bower seems,
a woeful waste when used as a bachelor establish-
ment. The curious have gone up in battalions to
view the flat. ! There’s nothing like it in the whole
State of Bent.
“A Paris rag-journal, in dealing with the
question of corsets, prescribes a crinoline filling
for the bust in the case:of flat figures. A plush
lining crinoline filling ! Ironmongery sounds
terrible under the circumstances. At the end of
the skirt, it was formidable enough —but for the
bust, a hoop arrangement would break up the
most sentimental situation. Edwin snatching a
crinoline-busted Angelina to his waistcoat is a
ludicrous notion. No Edwin with any suspicion
of humor could do it a second time. Pneumatic
pads are more reasonable if Angelina must assume
a contour that Nature didn’t give her.
“That Florence Young hies back in a month or
so is a fact. She was not fascinated with America
or the Yank theatrical life. Australia, she finds,
is a better place than she had thought.
“Dr. Jones, the recently-imported doctor for
the insane, has found intervals for singing sere-
nades and falling in love with a Melbournecharmer.
Mamma’s consent was won, and this week con-
gratulations are being showered on the medico and
Miss Kathleen Mahony. The fair party is an
Irish beauty, and was once regarded, more or less
correctly, as an heiress. The engagement had its
origin in a meeting at the Grand. Hotel proprie-
tors should trumpet tidings of this kind all over
the hemisphere. It is an attractive ‘ ad’. ‘’Twas
here they met; ’twas here they married.’ Or it
might be mentioned in the Age : ‘ This is recog-
nised as a good marrying hotel.’
“The Cliveden widow has been at pains to ex-
plain, per post from her Thule eyrie, the allega-
tions of Mr. Charles Atkins, that she and her she-
political league refuse to take any interest in the
Made-in-Australia movement. As proof positive
that she personally furthered Protectionist in-
terests, she advances the fact that on her last trip
to the Cold Country she had several rig-outs for
the tour made by a Melbourne dress-builder, and
did with those solely, to impress the big guns of
London. Patriotism and Protectionist prin-
ciples, she claims, could go no further. Then,
with rigid dignity in her best presidential manner,
the widow winds up, re the statement in the Age
leading article of 26th July, that a member of
the league, ‘ acting as the mouthpiece of the
league,’ said certain things, that there is only
one responsible mouthpiece. And she is it.
“ Mr. Justice Darley’s dame came and went un-
heralded. The dailies drew attention to her visit,
but no one can swear to having seen the visitor in
the Northcote suite. She must have been sand-
wiched in the V.R. squad somewhere, but was
lost to sight owing either to the blinding glitter
of Dame Northcote’s emeralds or the heavy
phalanx of aides keeping the draught off their
Exes. There’s no missing our Chief Justice’s
dame in any proud flock. She stands to atten-
tion, and is well within focus of the society-gapers
wherever she goes.
“The State Exes, are taking a trip to N.S.W.,
and all the visits to schools, gaols, asylums, and
creches come to an end for a term. Governor
Talbottle lias settled it in his gubernatorial mind
that a round of the public institutions and a word
with the big beadles in command constitutes a
vice-regal’s entire duty. After having performed
such with an unbending spinal column for two or
three months (with a few balls and other painful
and back-bending distractions thrown in), he is
off on a jaunt to the Macarthur Onslows’ place,
with a brief visit to the Darleys to follow.
“ The pictures of the Rev. Robinson become a
plague. They have a forward position in several
big shops in the city, and, what is much worse,
fall out of Her Majesty’s programmes into the
heathen’s lap at the show, much to the heathen’s
disgust. While all this camera posturing and
‘My photograph’ craze goes on, some R.C.’s
wonder why Archbishop Carr, the suave and
strict, says nothing. The Rev. Robinson in
homoeopathic doses is refreshing, but as a deluge
he is a trial.
“The John Forrests have splashed out into
expensive entertaining. Last Friday they spree’d
the High Court Justices and prominent Federal
politicians, with the L. L. Lewises and the Ross-
Sodens, at the Grand. This week the Labor
phalanx are to be dined, but ,I have heard that no
enthusiasm in accepting is evinced by members of
that party.
“The dog show in connection with the Vic.
Kennel and Roost Club drew the usual stragglers
to the exhibition the other day. The she-element
prevailed. And yet the cats exhibited were com-
paratively few. Parrots we;re plentiful and game
roosters to the fore. The Argus Haddons, who
house the best-pedigree’d dogs of the State, pretty
well ran the show, and conveyed the G.-G. suite
(your N.S.W. occasional Acting-Governor’s wife
included) round. The atmosphere was trying. It
always is at a dog show.
“ The ‘Nicho ’ Fitzgeralds hie back here in a
month. Advices to date tell of their frivolling in
double bevelled society, and it seems that no Aus-
tralians this season in London have fared better
than the Fitzgeralds, who keep a brewery. Britain
loves beer.
“MissM'Culloch, the dark, interesting daughter
of M.L.C. M‘Culloch, is having a good time with
her dad abroad. He returns to his legislative post
in the Victorian House of Rip Van Winkles
shortly, but she remains in the Emerald isle to ride
to hounds and generally disport herself with
relatives there.
“ Senator Dobson has offended the She-Political
League in some way, and the sex has scratched
his once beloved name off the list of its plat-
forming pets. Why, isn’t explained.
“The H. M. S. Coxes have made one of their
rare migrations to these parts. H. M. S. himself
is a moonful person who. wanders round noise-
lessly, and occasionally rides to hounds in a per-
fectly-fitting pink coat. Mrs. Cox, who was Miss
Stanbridge, a Geelong heiress, is decorative. The
Daylesford (Stanbridge) estate is rich enough to
allow for rare apparel, and matrimony has in-
creased rather than diminished the dame’s singular
beauty.
“The Army Nursing Sisters are about in bib
and cap-ends) selling tickets for a Nightingale hop
at the fading end of August.
“A Collins-street medico is charged with an
entanglement. He will not take her for better or
worse, and lie can’t shake off the white man’s bur-
den. So Melbourne waits for the denouement.
“ The Brough-Flemmings are sociable mummers.
Before the wind-up of the brisk season they are
breaking the farewell biscuit with Melbourne pals.
Miss W: Fraser has a junket of the kind on to-day
(Monday) at the Grand. Mrs. Brough, Miss Day,
and the lesser lights are all standing behind the
steaming tea-urn dispensing the brew with hostly
grace, and will continue to do so until their going.
The usual theatrical star is not a spender to any
extent. She takes all she can get and gives
nothing. She even refuses her baptism label to
the book of signatures unless bribed with half-a-
crown. The cash goes to the Tired Actors’ Fund.
Tales of the thrift and economy shown in particular
by the Yank stars who drift to these parts are in
brisk circulation. The Brough-Flemmings are
different.
‘ ‘ The story goes that a certain popular and
hard-working Australian she-mummer in a leadijig
co. shortly secures the decree nisi from her neglect-
ful spouse, and then commits matrimony with a
desirable Dives, at present away in a remote
quarter of Australia.
“ The Melbourne Mayoress has had’flu badly,
but she bounces once more in the places of the
great, and in the eye of the public. It’s a treat to
see how Mrs. Pleasance jogs in the Mayoral har-
ness, and counts the round of duties a jolly busi-
ness.
“ A mummer writes of the Gaiety Gi.rl in the
Big Smoke : ‘To enter George Edwardes’ crack
corps, one must be born again, and born pre-
maturely. At 23, one is liable to be retired on an
old age plea, without a pension. To please the
chief, one must mouse on to the stage, tread the
plank as if it were a layer of eggshell, and have
dimples and an air of innocence. Otherwise,
there is no chance for you.’ This is the golden
age of feebleness in English theatricals. Every-
thing must be done mildly and gently. The time
is coming when the stage assassin will introduce a
murder to his victim by apologising for the liberty
he is about to take.”
Yours Affectionately, AKENEHI.


RHEUMATISM
Ointments Can Never Cure It.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
Drive Poison From the Blood.
“ 1 ■ PROVED in my case that ointments and
liniments can never cure Rheumatism,”
said John Kennedy, a retired mariner,
well-known in all Australian ports, having
been associated for years with all the big shipping
circles, particularly those of Sydney, but who is
tor the present living at 95 Arthur-street, Dune-
din. “ Nothing but a blood medicine can cure it.
After I had been rubbed sore with every mortal
liniment in vain, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured
me by sweeping the aching rheumatic poison out
of my blood. There’s no other cure for a down-
right bad case of Rheumatism.
“My case was as bad as any in N.S. Wales. I
had my first attack at sea six years ago when
taking a cargo of wheat from Sydney to London.
I had always roughed it at sea, and for a long
time my blood had been in a bad state. Off Cape
Horn we ran into a terrible ice storm. The cold
soaked right into my bones. The Rheumatism
was in my system—but that exposure to an Arctic
storm set the pains going. When every hand was
needed on deck. I had to lie paralysed with pain.
The ship’s medicine chest was stocked with all
the standard liniments, and my mates rubbed me
till I was blistered. But none of these things did
me the least real good. I remained a cripple till
we reached London.
“The London doctor sent me straight to the
Hospital, where I was treated by the greatest
specialists for three months,” Mr. Kennedy con-
tinued. “At last the head doctor told me to go
back to Australia and get a shore billet, for I could
never stand a cold climate or exposure at sea. I
shipped for Queensland, and no tongue can tell
the unspeakable torture I went through on that
voyage. When I left the ship in Brisbane I was
practically crippled.
“ I made my way to the Gulf country and got a
light station job. There I read of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. The other men said they were only
‘ for Pale People ’ —but one chap named Charlie
Morely said that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had
cured his uncle of one of the worst cases of Rheu-
matism on record. I sent straight for a supply.
After the first two or three boxes I would have
knocked them off —but Morely said that if I
didn’t give them a fair chance to cure my Rheu-
matism, it would be my own fault if I was crippled
for life.
“Sol kept on. Soon the pains in my hands
and shoulders began to ease up. Gradually my
muscles lost their stiffness and I could move my
joints with ease. My general health improved in
fifty ways. My case was so stubborn that it took
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a few months to cure me
—but in the end they did twenty times more for
me than the best Hospital doctors of London could
do. When I started them I was a cripple—when
I left them off I was a strong, active man. Since
then I have never had the slightest sign of Rheu-
matism. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured me for
good.”
Nothing else could possibly cure John Kennedy,
because nothing else could drive the Rheumatic
poison out of his veins. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
actually male new blood. They do just that one
thing—but they do it well. They don’t act on the
bowels. They don’t tinker with mere symptoms.
They strike straight at the root and cause of all
blood diseases such as anaemia, general weakness,
debility, indigestion, biliousness, headaches, back-
aches, kidney and liver trouble, lumbago, rheu-
matism, sciatica, neuralgia, nervousness, St.
Vitus’ dance, partial paralysis, faii.ng powers, and
the secret blood troubles that ruin the regular
health of growing girls and women. If you are
not sure whether Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
suited to your own case, write for free medical
advice to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s
Place, Sydney. From the same address you can
order the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills at
2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.
D? WILLIAMS 9
INK
p
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mrs. Willis told the N.S.W. Lands Com-
mission that, “ all her married life,” she had
obeyed her land agent.
Barton-Parkes is the curious federation of
names owned by the new Anglican rector of
Fremantle (W.A.).
Defendant in a Melbourne maintenance
case: “I intended to drown myself, but I went
to Geelong.” There is a resemblance.
Stated by a Westralian paper that John
Norton, of Sydney, has offered himself as a Wes-
tralian Labor candidate at the next elections,
Mr. Solicitor Robson, newly elected
M.L.A. for Ashfield (N.S.W.), was introduced to
the Assembly by a lawyer and a half—that is, by a
barrister and a conveyancer.
Passed out at Sydney, the other day, aged
94, Bartholomew Rush, a pioneer contractor. He
built the telegraph lines from Sydney to Albury
and from Sydney to Bourke.
The respondent in a Melbourne divorce
case arising from sectarian squabbles between the
parties bears the name of Harris Maloney. It
wouldn’t have a more mixed sound if it were
Moses Murphy or Donald Aarons.
“ Melb.” : The newspaper photos, of
Barristeress Greig were taken before her studies
ploughed into her, as George Eliot said of
Romola. I have seen one of the others.
The shockingly ignorant Sydney Tele-
graph, the other day, in the course of one short
paragraph, referred to “ Bakinin ” (meaning
Bakounin), “Fewsback” (meaning Feuersbach),
and “Kail Marx” (for Karl Marx).
F. A. Byrne, mentioned in the N.S.W.
Lands Commission business, is an old dray and
coach driver, and was for many years manager for
Cobb and Co. He is known over the backblooks
of N.S.W., Vic., and S.A., and owns up to 65
years of age.
Premier Price, of S. Australia, who resolved
to wear all Australian clothes to make his policy
speech in, nearly had to do it without a collar.
That small item of Australian manufacture was
the hardiest of all to get, and one only happened
along at the 11th hour.
Died, at Adelaide recently, Andrew
Guthrie, aged 85, a member of a long-lived family.
He leaves a brother aged 83 and a sister aged 90.
Andrew was an authority on church history, and
taught in the same Sunday-school for 54 years.
Men named Andrew generally teach in Sunday-
schools and live longer than usual.
COMMISSIONER M‘KIE, chief Australian
dancing dervish for Booth & Co.
A N.S.W. State legislator was fined for
drunkenness the other day (first offence), and the
Sydney Evening News, which isn’t on his side of
the fence in politics, characteristically published
the fact with his name. Press custom in Sydney
omits the names of drunks up for the first time.
But the legislator is an unlucky dog. He isn’t
even allowed his first bite.
An old Sydney native died suddenly last
week up Normanton (Q.) way, aged 80 years. Mr.
J. J. Roberts, a pastoral inspector of the Bank of
New South Wales, was a brother of the late Wm.
Roberts, the well-known “Old Bailey ” solicitor
of Sydney, who had totted up 86 years when he
went over. Another brother, David Foley
Roberts, settled at Moreton Bay in 1851, was
called to the Queensland Legislative Council on
its formation, and was chairman of committees.
Died t’other day at Adelong (N.S.W.),
cetat 91, Mrs. Ross, a local identity, known
familiarly as “Kitty ” Ross. Her special claim to
notice is her feat of swimming the roaring waters
of the Murrumbidgee, at Gundagai, during the
memorable flood of some 40 years ago, and her
subsequent holding out in a tree, with her two
children, for a day and a night. Despite her age,
she used to walk from her home to Adelong, and
back (six miles) for her O. A. Pension.
Charles Bonaparte, Boose velt’s Navy
Minister, is grandson of Jerome, Napoleon’s
brother. Jerome married Miss Patterson, of Balti-
more, from whom Charles is descended. Napoleon
tried to get the Pope to annul this marriage, but
in vain, though Miss Patterson was a Protestant.
Then Napoleon annulled the marriage himself,
and Jerome married the Princess of Wurtemburg.
Napoleon 111 offered to make Charles Bonaparte’s
father a peer of France if he would resign the
name of Bonaparte.
The new Speaker of the British House of
Commons, J. W. Lowther, is 50 years of age, and
by profession a barrister. He has been in
Parliament 22 years and has been Deputy Speaker
for 10 years. He wears a moustache and the
traditionists say that he must shave. Speaker
Peel wore a full beard when elected, but on taking
the Chair he shaved the moustache but retained
the “billy goat.” British tradition is a fearsome
thing, and it can’t imagine itself being called to
order by a man with fluff on his top lip.
Lieut. -Col. A. H. P. Savage, late of the
Royal Australian Artillery, who died in England
last week, was a Sydney native, born in 1850, in
Myles’ Buildings, Cumberland-street, out Dawes
Point way. Myles, who' was a superintendent of
police, erected the terrace, which stands on the
sky-line; it dates from 1842. That part of the
Rocks was then the home of Sydney’s aristocracy.
Lieut.-Colonel Savage’s father was a retired navy
surgeon, and one of the earliest directors of the
A.M.P. Society. His peculiar costume attracts
attention in the Society’s portrait gallery.
“Den ” : Do the Government Departments
receive no notice of deaths amongst public servants,
or is the publication of such notices as the follow-
ing merely another instance of red-tapeism:—
His Excellency the Governor-General, by and with the
advice of the Federal Executive Council, has approved
that William Rossi, postmaster, North Adelaide, be per-
mitted to resign from the public service, owing to ill-
health.
This appeared in the Commonwealth Gazette of
August 12, when Rossi had been dead several
months.
P. A. M ‘Anulty, the Victorian Taxing
Officer, who considered himself an officer subject
to the Chief Justice and not to the Public Service
Board, loses the fight. A somewhat similar battle
was fought by T. M. Slattery, when a prothono-
tary, in N.S.'VV. Supreme Court, the point raised
by him in a disputed case being that he was a ser-
vant of the Supreme Court Judges and not of the
Government. Chief Justice Martin, of that day,
thought Tom was doing splendidly, but the
Government held a different view, and Slattery
walked out —didn’t wait, like M‘Anulty, to be
pitched out.
E. H. Coombe, new Chairman of Com-
mittees in the S. Australian Assembly, is a country
journalist who runs one of the few way-up papers
that aren’t either a Herald, a Star, or a
Recorder ; his rag is the Gawler Bunyip. When
the Convention sat in Adelaide to fix up a Federal
Constitution Coombe was in the gallery as a
Register man ; now the Register pours pints of
gall on him. He hasn’t been long in politics,
only stepping into the place of John Downer
when the latter went into the Senate ; but he has
made good use of his time and is reckoned as good
and knowing a Parliamentarian as the House
holds.
The story of the death per dynamite ex-
plosion at Canning Bridge (W.A.) of Henry Irwin
Blake, son of the Governor of Ceylon, proves to
be much like many other stories. The deceased
was local manager of an accident insurance co.,
and is said to have been £BOO or more short in his
accounts. He cabled to his father for a large sum
of money, and the answer, which arrived the day
after his death, was “Impossible.” The co.’s
inspector reached Perth to overhaul the accounts
while the reply was still being waited for. Then
Blake remembered a promise to take a friend
lib. of dynamite to shift trees with, and he left on
horseback with the explosive. At a quiet spot he
dismounted and blew up. He left behind him a
swift horse, some tangled accounts, a wife, six
children, and some £6OOO of insurance. Also he
left many friends. The pathetic fact is that the
more friends a man has the shorter he often is in
his accounts.
The Austraxian Star (17/8/’O5) put the
photo, of the lately-deceased theatrical manager
“ Pete” Hughes in the middle of a column of in-
coherent romance headed “ He Lived and Lost,”
of which some extracts are appended :
His own Maria had been lost to him for ever, and no
number of alcoholic outings had compensated him for his
bereavement. So he mused as he walked pensively along
the deserted ways of Newtown after dark. The strains of
a sweet coon song, played soulfullv upon an accordeon,
were wafted upon the chilly air, and they recalled
memories of the depth of the deep sadness of the might-
have-been. The impossibility of the “if” fell upon him
like the wofulness of the “ was,” and Peter sighed. Again
the strains of the accordeon broke forth, wildly, mysteri-
ously terrific. . . .
She was merely requesting a Newtown policemen to get
off her foot, and give her room to trip away, but it was
her style that attracted Peter. . . .
The suburban beer-puller was cold, and looked upon the
lovers with disdain. “ Oh, you are like she who has de-
parted from her Peter,” he said ; and she said, “Am
I ?” . . .
Several times did Peter pull out his purse and distribute
its glittering contents. . . .
The gentleman who served the beer refused to take any
excuse, and threatened to fetch the police. “ Fetch ’em,”
said Peter, “ fetch ’em all. Let ’em all come.” . . .
Peter caught her by her luxuriant crop of golden hair,
and dragged her back to justice and to retribution.
And now there are people in Sydney who think
that hash of mysterious raving was intended to
relate some romantic episode in the life of good
old “Pete” Hughes, and was, in some sense, his
obituary.
A LONG CHEAP VOYAGE.
DOCTOK : “ You must go away at once, sir; forget there's such a thing as business, and go for
a good long voyage.”
INSOLVENT PATIENT : “ Well, doctor, I'll leave it to you. Prussic acid or rough on rats. I'm
not particular.”
J. Gr. Smith, correspondent for the London
Morning Post at the war, furnishes this June
number of the American World’s Work with
opinions of English, American, French and German
men of business in China. All such men that he
could find were unanimously against Japan. They
agreed that the Japs would thrust them all out,
especially by their fiendish skill in counterfeiting
trade marks.
That spotted saint, Tremayne Dunstan,
formerly rev. in charge of “ Mr. James’s ” flock at
the Pitt-street Congregational Church (Sydney),
uttered the pious wish the other day that when
the Japs arrived in Australia their first bomb
would fall on The Bulletin office. Well, after
last week, Tremayne Dunstan ought to know
pretty well what bombs feel like. He had the
amazing front to apply to the Bankruptcy Court
for a discharge, and his bomb arrived through the
Registrar, who told Dunstan that he had pursued
a course of fraud and deceit, that he had borrowed
money from various people by false pretences,
that he had taken down at least two women, that
he had in his parson’s clothes obtained the confi-
dence of people and then cruelly and dishonestly
abused that confidence, that he had absconded
under a false name, and generally that his conduct
had been immoral and dishonorable; and having
given the pious cheat and fraud this comprehen-
sive certificate, he threw out his application for
discharge with great enthusiasm. And this, ye
gods, is the sort, of man they pay £750 a year to
to show them the Way to Heaven !
Some Hebrew fragments :
The London Jewish world is treated in Cassell’s Maga-
zine for July. Chief Rabbi Adler is 65. He and Cardinal
Manning were ardent friends, and he was also a great
friend of the late Bishop Creighton, of London. The late
Lord Bute bequeathed £lO,OOO to Dr. Adler, for a Jewish
studentship at St. Andrew’s University. He raised £BOOO
for a charity at one Hebrew banquet. Said L. Rothschild,
“ You are a prince of beggars.” Adler : “No, I beg off
princes.” Said Cardinal Manning to him, “ When will I
see you eat a slice of ham ? ” Adler : “At your Emin-
ence’s wedding.” Particularly good, ‘but possibly the
Rabbi would not have said it if he had reflected a moment.
The next intellectual Hebrew in London is Dr. Caster,
Chief Rabbi, or, more correctly, Haham(wise man), of the
Spanish and Portuguese congregations. Haham is a title
1800 years old. A peculiarity is that he declines to
take fees as Chief Rabbi, putting rich and poor on abso-
lutely the same footing. Such names as Montefiore,
Sassoon, Ricardo, Disraeli, Lopes, are on the books of his
congregation. Sir Samuel Montagu, proper name
Montagu Samuel, is next to the Rothschildren in finance,
and noted for stubborn orthodoxy. During his copious
travels this has often reduced him to a meal of bread and
onions. He never had a day’s illness, and said to Glad-
stone, “It is through following the Mosaic law.” On
the other hand, Claude G. Montefiore, M.A., from Balliol,
Oxford, is the most brilliant of the Jewish Ultra-Re-
formers. The Berkeley Synagogue is their headquarters.
Mocatta is the greatest of all charitable Jews, in propor-
tion to wealth, giving away from £15,000 to £20,000 a
year. Yet he cannot afford to keep a carriage. Mrs.
Bischoffsheim combines the reputations of being the most
influential lady charitable worker and the best bridge
player in England.
“ Barlamb ” : If Attorney-General Isaacs
is the son of an imported Polish Jew it goes with-
out saying that his talent is essentially tricky.
Paderewski, and Cinquevalli (born Brodzky), the
father of modern jugglery, are typical wonder-
working Poles. Benno Scherelc delights in card
tricks and queer feats of piano playing. The
mental and physical alertness of the Poles is quite
Japanesque, and when the genius of the Jew is
thrown in you get a very strong combination.
But if I were a Judge I would have a particular
distrust in Isaac Isaacs’ most impressive legal
arguments. He must have a tricky mind, a
juggling style of reasoning, although, to be sure,
he takes himself with a seriousness that casts a
gloom around him.
THE DEVIL'S DAY OUT.
Two churches were burnt and one sold up last week in
Australia. At the sale 50 Bibles went lor 5s. —Neios Item.
“ E.” from Melbourne : A word for Bent.
I like Tommy. There’s some human nature about
him. His instinctive democracy is almost Whit-
manesque, and it’s a pleasing sight outside Parlia-
ment House to see the Premier arguing with a
ragged newspaper kid and telling him “I’m as
good a man as you, anyway.” Also Tommy
doesn’t deal in Stinking Fish. He believes strenu-
ously in his country —“ the finest place on the face
of God’s earth ’’—where everything is better than
anything anywhere else, including Tommy him-
self. And bis contempt for convention, and his
readiness to oblige with “ health and song ” on all
possible or impossible occasions, form a strong con-
trast to the icicles of Irvine and the ponderous
platitudes of the average politician. Then, though
Tommy’s theories are rotten or rather mixed, his
practice is good. He’s quite a sound Socialist,
and is doing Socialistic work on unsentimental but
plain business lines. He has also hung up a sur-
plus, so on the whole we’re getting along all right
with Tommy, and we wouldn’t change him for
Joey anyway.


WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHJNERV
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2V5.
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
Resell’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Try the difference Detween a big glass of
vour usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. ' You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body
and there will be no bad after-effects ! We are
talking’ of Wolfe's Schnapps.*
hA
mm
E
Aboriginalities.
“Loco.” : Be following the flight of bees
(B. 13/7/’O5). Was watching two or three bees
hovering around a blossom, when my view was
blocked by a swagmau who asked snappishly if I
hadn’t seen a bee before. I told him I had seen a
few, and, with visions of wild honey in my mind,
offered him great wealth (Gd.) if he could locate
their nest. He agreed. Presently one of the
insects rose, and swaggie got on to his back wheel
from the jump. I followed swaggie. That insect
kept strictly to the left side of the road, which was
covered with stumps and heaps of stones ; but
whether he was falling or rising the tattered pur-
suer kept his eyes glued to the small speck. After
three-quarters of a mile of this the speck slowed
up near a manure heap on the side of the road ;
then, in disgust, steered across to a patch of tim-
ber. We fell over the two intervening fences—
and watched the insect calmly settle on a dead
sheep. That swagman gazed hard and thought-
fully at the blowfly for fifty-nine seconds ; then
said —“You cow 1”
A SLOW TOWN FOR SHOUTING.
COUNTRY MAGNATE : “It seems to me, Smith,
that you waste half your day drinking at
this hotel.”
SMITH (insinuatingly): "'Taint the drinkin ’,
Mister, that cuts into the time; it's waitin’
to get it.”
“Quidam”: “8.5.” (8.27/7/’O5) expresses
sorrow that boomerang-throwing is not adopted as
a branch of athletics. Let me tell him that a lot
of sorrow would be expressed by other people if it
were. He says it would soon arouse interest in
large schools. It would—especially among doctors
and undertakers. It is easy enough to propel a
boomerang forward, but it takes a very experi-
enced person to predict where it isn’t going to hit
on the back-flash. When you observe a nice sharp
crescent-shaped piece of hardwood coming back at
you viciously from the clouds, whirling round like
a spinning-jinny, and you don’t feel thoroughly
certain whether it is going to strike you or some-
body else (it’s pretty safe to hit someone), it gives
you a sort of nervous feeling. Once had a Queens-
land friend who reckoned he was pretty skilful
with the weapon, but, on the second exhibition,
its homeward journey was a little too high, and it
passed over us and the various bits of scenery we
were concealed behind, and went through the only
stained-glass window of a little country church.
Squaring up for that sacrilege, and subsequent
thrilling adventures in company with that
bold Queenslander and his boomerang, convinced
me for life that the boomerang and civilised man
must be content to live apart.
“ Jimmy the Ringer ” writes :
Re Rodier and his rabbit remedy: It is now about
13 or 14 years since he advanced his theory of checking:
bunny, and ever since it is doubtful whether either the
man or his scheme was ever considered except with dis-
trust or derision. Pastoral dead-beats have found in both
a gleam of sunshine to illumine the gloomy intervals
between their doleful rnaunderings about what they were
before the rabbit ruined them. Others treading in the
same direction can only be headed off their monotonous
growls about banks, the Government or the Labor party
by having Rodier drawn across the trail, while the theory
has become the standard joke of pastoral fledglings who
were busily engaged in the destruction of the knees of
their pants at marbles, while Rodier was out after bunny.
That there is a humorous side to the question is unde-
niable, but to thoroughly appreciate it and get the full
flavor of the joke, one has to go into the career of the
man himself.
Rodier went to the Cobar district about the poorest of
the unfortunates who thought there was a fortune in
squatting in this fly-blown Eldorado. He took up a 10-
mile block. He probably' couldn’t afford more. And it is
one of the worst in a district where few, if-any, can come
under the heading- of good. He was there when the
rabbits came. He was there when they were at their
worst (in probabl.v the worst rabbit-country in Australia
to handle). And he is there now. Of his contemporaries
in that long-back time, they who are left can be counted
on the fingers. And, further, Rodier is one of the few—
the very, very few— who are sound financially.
This is where the humorous part comes in. Could
there be anything more ludicrous than to see “ the
lunatic” Rodier, who has held his run despite both
rabbits and drought, being held up to ridicule by sapient
f dlures battling round for a billet “on their uppers,” or
to consider Rodier as the stock joke of nominal owners
who cannot spend thirty shillings on a fowlhouse without
permission ? I appeal to any'one. Could there be any-
thing funnier ?
* * * *
“ K.K.” : I am about exhausted with dog
lies. Isn’t the noble bow-wow a much over rated
animal ? A man near me owned a dog which, so
he said, could ‘‘do anything but talk.” We were
out riding. My friend had to dismount, and when
he re-mounted he left his whip lying on the ground.
“ Tiger ’ll fetch it,” he said. We rode off, leaving
Tiger to fetch it. He didn’t catch up to us, and
next morning my friend came round to tell me he
hadn’t fetched it (or himself) yet. So we saddled
up and went to look for him. We found the faith-
ful excrescence lying down steadfastly regarding
the whip, which was lying where it had dropped.
The whip weighed three ounces, and the dog was
big enough to carry' lcwt.
“Davrich”: The medical knowledge of
the Australian aborigines is limited. They have
only three cures of
any standing, viz. :
“Budgelum y,”
“Mindewarum-
bing” and “Yacat-
barbylo.” The first
is an ointment made
of ’possum, emu and
kangaroo fat, g,nd
is used for cuts,
sores, bruises, etc.
The ungUent is
never used except
in win t e r—t h e
blades disdaining
(or else being too
lazy) to use any-
thing in summer.
The second prepara-
tion is a composition
of boiled eucalyptus
leaves and native
honey, and is drunk
in cases of severe
cold, dysentery,
etc.; and is some-
times drunk all
round, when any
bad sickness is about
the camp. The third
is made from the
mistletoe which
grows on gum, box
or coolibali trees,
mixed with a plant which is known to the blacks
as “ waranbungly,” and which whites designate as
“sourgrass” or “acid plant.” This last is used
for ordinary, uncategorical ailments. I don’t
think there are any others.
“Nym”: A lot of unnecessary fuss is
being thrown about the premises over the seeming
extinction of the native cat in certain quarters, as
if the vandal would ever be missed ! One healthy
“ native ” of the spotted variety, and only as big
as a ferret, will work more cussed damage in the
dead poultry line in an unsuspecting community,
than four foxes. Saw a strange sight last June,
which proves that the vermin isn’t extinct in the
dead timber areas along the Big Trickle. Old Bill
the Stutterer pulled up his fishing lines for the
season, sticking the rods upright in the bank,
with the hook on each string baited. He intended
gathering up the tackle that evening, but lingered
with the talent at Moo San’s shanty cursing the
Government. Bill left in the gloaming, but came
back hurriedly, looking scared. He stuttered, so
we couldn’t wait to decipher his sentences, but
followed him down stream, duly armed to meet
the Tantanoola tiger that sometimes lurks in the
bottles out back. Our targets proved to be five
native cats, each of which had taken the defunct
frog on a hook, and had been caught. Bill
wears a vest made of those cats’ skins.
* * * *
“V.” : Stockmen in the Northern Terri-
tory call the Katherine River pub. Brisbane;
Pine Creek, Sydney; and Palmerston, Melbourne.
That’s as far as they get. They have two new
kinds of poison in these parts—brandy and chloro-
dyne, and whisky and laudanum. All Is. a
time.
MISS FLORRIE GREEN , of Melbourne, the
most accomplished dancer in Australia.
Photo, for The Bi lletin' by Inez and Nina Hicks, The
Block, Melbourne.
“ Werrimee ” : Writing of national postage
stamps in the S.M. Herald, Ernest Favenc
reviews a variety of subjects in the animal, bird,
floral and historical kingdoms that offer themselves
as suitable emblems. Three of them, the kangaroo,
emu and black swan, are already in use. Among
the others he recommends (the emblem must
be something common to all the States, and exclu-
sively Australian) are the ’possum, dingo, cocka-
too, brolga, ibis, jabiru, bustard, water hen, peli-
can and eaglehawk ; with the wild duck (name not
specified), spoonbill, tortoise and flying fox as
adjuncts. All these are good, pictorially con-
sidered ; but no mention is made of the kooka-
burra, one of the most notable and picturesque of
Australian birds. He is widely distributed,
species of him being found in all the States,
including Tasmania ; and with a snake in his huge
bill he would look exquisite on a national stamp.
Certainly he would be better than cockatoos, the
heads of which resemble too closely the giant
parrots of other countries ; or the swan and the
pelican, which are not peculiarly Australian;
or the eaglehawk, duck, water hen, crane,
or tortoise, which have representatives too
closely allied elsewhere. The koala, perched
on a limb with a young one on its back,
would be another striking emblem. The animal
is now becoming extinct in many parts, which
adds to its claim for recognition. The flying
squirrel is more picturesque than the ’possum,
but there are squirrels further afield ; and the
’possum and our wild dog must be rejected on that
point also ; while the scrub turkey would not be
unique without its mound. The broad-headed
wombat, on the other hand, is distinctly Aus-
tralian, and is widely distributed. The platypus
is omitted by Mr. Favenc as not being common to
all the States. It is, or was, found in Tasmania,
Victoria, N.S.W. and Queensland (am not sure
about S.A.), surely sufficient to include it as the
most unique representative of Australia. No
other part of the world can produce anything ap-
proaching the famous ornithorhynchus paradoxus
—and very soon Australia won’t have anything
more than the memory of it. All considered, our
best emblematical subjects in the bird and animal
line are the kookaburra, platypus, and kangaroo ;
with the emu and the flying-fox as adjuncts. The
emu is not distinct enough (on a stamp) from the
ostrich and the American rhea for premiership.
But it is rumored that the frantically picturesque
and original Federal authorities are just going to
put Edward Vll.’a countenance on the stamp and
be done with it.
“ Millewa ” : I was reading “ J. Pannikin ”
on the new syllabus (B. 20/7/‘O5) to the derelict
when he broke into discourse something like the
following : “No, I wuzn’t brought up on no silly-
bus. Mick Flannigan wuz me teacher, an’ he
mos’ly stuck to drill. Wensdees an’ Fridees wuz
drill days, with odd ones in between. Mick ’ud
come inter school. ‘Foller me, boys,’he’d sav,
‘heads up, chests forward.’ He’d take us inter
the bush an’ order, ‘Seize ar-r-rums. For-r-rm
line.’ When we wuz all in line, with a good lump
of saplin’ each, he’d start back agen. ‘Right
tur-r-rn (Mick, me boy, turn yer face ter the
Wusslean church yonder ; yer face—that’s right,
ye fool). Left wheel (t’wards the minister’s pig-
sty, ye divils!). Quick march (straight for the
gable end of the priest’s house, can’t ye now?).’
When we got back ter school he’d let us inter the
yard, an’ order, ‘ Halt 1 Stack ar-r-rums ! Dis-
pensed An’ them rifles used ter, be ’is firewood
till nex’ drill day. Yes; Mick wuz solid on
milingtary tactics.”
* » * *
“ Nulla ” : Re that noble bird, the eagle. I
want to know where the nobility comes in. He’ll
kill lambs, and, providing they don’t see him
coming and beat him to the nearest fence, hares
and such small game, but he doesn't do his
slaughtering in a more dignified manner than his
little brother, the sparrow-hawk. Certainly, he
has a very impressive bill, but a usurer has that,
and no one ever alludes to Ikey as a noble animal.
In my opinion, the eagle is an over-rated, big cur,
that can be moved on by “ willy wagtail,” and
kept moving by an argumentative “ soldier bird,”
and until I hear of him assaulting a land-agent or
somebody of that sort, I will continue to class him
as a ruffianly harrier of defenceless things half his
size, with as much right to put on “dog” as the
unspeakable crow.
“ The Prooshan ” : When I was a boy
30 years ago, peach trees would flourish
with very little help from the orchardist.
The curly aphis and other aphides, too-
numerous to mention, didn’t woiiy the life
of the peach out in those days. Now, it’s-
a mighty hard matter to rear a peach at all.
Out of 14 young trees planted a few years
ago by a neighbor only two survived ; the
rest fell victims to blight. Well, I saw five
splendid healthy trees yesterday in an
orchard at Batlow, and asked their owner
how he managed to grow them. “Oh,” said
he, “quite simply. See that stuff growing
round each tree ? ” I then noticed a bunch
of “old man,” a plant well known in the-
country on account of its “ old-man
smell. “And what does that do?’ I
asked. “Aphides don’t like it. I never
have any trouble to speak of with my
peaches,” he said. On inquiry I found that
it was his old mother’s idea. I have found
that old mothers are pretty rich in good
practical ideas.
* * * *
A party of five horsemen camped on
the Long Plain, about four miles from the
Glory Hole (Yarrangobilly Caves), about 20
years ago. Having heard that horses had
a way of mysteriously disappearing there-
abouts and finding lodgings in the famous
Stable Creek in Lobbs’ Hole, from whence
no traveller returned, save at the direction
of him who drove him to market, the party
decided to bell a fidgetty old mare (they
only had one bell), confident she would make
such a lively exit if disturbed by a thief that
the camp would be raised. After turning in,
the wind rose, but still they heard the bell at
intervals, and one man kept the fire going
and listened to the tinkle until relieved in
turn by a mate. “They’re all right; I heard
old Flirt’s bell just now,” said the last watch.
When morning broke they went round be-
hind the scrub, and found the bell swinging
on a twig that swayed gently in the wind,
and that was all they did find. Every hoof
was gone.
A A A *
The following is an extract from a
Nature study lesson given in a Victorian State
School to fourth and fifth class youngsters :
The Vicia Paba (broad bean): In a transverse section
of the square stem is seen (1) a medullary cavity, (2) pith
of the medulla, (3) vasculous bundles separated by medul-
lary rays, (4) large cells containing chlorophyll (cortex),
(5) epidermal cells pierced by stomata. Cambium con-
sists of thin walls filled with protoplasm. The xylem is
formed of spiral cells, etc. The bud has three layers of
primary meristem, but they originate outside the cortex
(exogenous).
The lesson goes on and finishes with such terms as
periblem, dermatogen, plerome, etc. The poor,
ill-fed, ill-clothed, and over-worked cocky-children
cannot work mentally the price of a dozen eggs at
l|d. each, and when they have this sort of thing
thrown at them it leaves them stunned, gaping,
and ignorant.
THE LATE “PETE” HUGHES.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
“ O’Fipp ” : Be music and milk-production
(“ Madcap,” B. 27/7’05)
A German friend of mine, farming’ at Wuk Wuk (Vic.),,
has trained his cows so well that he simply places the
buckets in a line, strikes a few chords on his zither, and
the cows range themselves over the buckets. Peculiarly
thrilling music follows, and the milk is given up without
manipulation. He was puzzled to find why the process
d’id not work with one of the cows, but discovered that
she was deaf. Pitted her with artificial ear-drums, and
she has since been as easily influenced by the music as the
others. Friend reckons he has saved £239 10s. Bd. in
three years in milkers’ wages. I have grasped the idea
with a feverish hand, and my patent bail, with phono-
graph attachment, will soon be on the market.
PEACE AND WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Men round the pub. door talk of tricks,
Of Reid and Cent, and polities ;
A “ two-up ” school is up the lane
And filled with thoughts of sordid gain.
Sma’l children n the gutter pla,\—
In childhood’s muddy, cheerful w.t.y ;
And women on their front gates lean,
Unmindful of.a house to clean ;
Peace has stretched out her shapely han I
And rested it upon this land.
But hark 1 a rending tears the air,
The place is suddenly astir.
Men from the pub. with flushed cheeks run,
As at the sound of foeman’s gun ;
The two-up school, with frantic shout,
Rush from the lane and join the rout ;
The children from the gutter shove,
Neglectful of the dirt they love ;
The front-gate gossips join the throng
And with it madly tear along.
The cause of all these trampling feet
Is two dogs fighting up the street.
VIC.
C. C. HUTRLSH.


What Fertilizers are to
the soil, strengthening the
crop, doubling the harvest
Cerebos salt
is to the food, fortifying
the human body and
vitalizing the brain.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
THE
WORLD’S
LATEST
and Best in RINGS are
always to be seen in our
enormous stock.
Fine diamonds and
1 Yellow and 1 Blue
Sapphire, £9 9s.
Pink Tourmaline and
Choice Whole Pearl,
and 8 Fine Diamonds,
£l2 12S.
2 Choice Sapphires,
1 Tourmaline, with small
Olivines, £lO 10s.
We manufacture them from designs received by each mail. We thus save 27£ per cent, duty
and all intermediate profits.
As makers, our prices are the lowest possible. Our stock of Unset Gems is very large.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
TOWING THE KID. —(Seen down by the Murrumbidgee.)
“ Valak ” : Re tracking bees from water
(B. 3/8/’O5). I have taken scores of wild bees’
nests, and always found them from water, but I
did not try to put salt on their tails, or anything
of that kind, and then chase them home. By
getting the sun so that it reflects from the bee’s
wings, you can line a bee for 15 or 20 yards after
he leaves the water, and although he circles a bit
when rising, after he lights out for home in
•earnest, he travels as straight as a solicitor to
his fee. We would watch a bee from one hole
and get his direction, then go a little higher or
lower till we found another going in a similar
direction. The intersection of those two lines
would be pretty close to the nest, and we merely
had to examine the trees in that vicinity. I have
. got as much as 3cwt. of honey out of a nest, but
lest Mr. Carruthers may think this a solution of
the unemployed difficulty, I hasten to add I have
also got considerably less. One of my most pain-
;ful memories is that of finding a nest in a huge
white-box tree about Oft. through at the butt.
From the dark appearance of the opening
we opined the'nest was old ; but as the bees were
•entering about 40ft. up, too high to cut them out,
the tree had to come down. About a hatful of
honey is a cheerful reward after hours of slogging
with an axe. There is a lot of difference in bees.
Some come out to look for trouble with the
first chop of the axe, and they are not happy till
they find it either. I have often had to light a
fire to windward of the tree before I could even
•cut the tree down. On the other hand, some bees
start straight in to eat the honey. I have heard
of a nest on the side of a hill, which smashed up
-as it fell, and the honey ran down the hill a
•quarter of a mile into the creek. I can’t corro-
borate this, but perhaps some other Aboriginaliar
•can. As far as chasing a bee to its nest is con-
•cerned, some time ago I saw where bees and
.homing pigeons were let loose together and the
bees were home first. It seems to me that the
man who can keep up with a bee is wasting his
time chasing them. Chasing records ought to pay
better.
Some more old reminiscences by a man
who was recently contradicted :
Apropos “ Thurla and Burrowang ” (B. 17/S ’O5). It.
I). Meagher's father did not succeed “ Constable” Suther-
land at Cowra. The officer at Benni Creek, four miles
from Cowra—sometimes confounded with Oorowa—was
Sergeant Andrew Sutherland. The story told was that,
-on May 1, 187:1, two men rode up to the hut of a farmer
named Horan and made an enquiry. While there Sergeant
Sutherland appeared and called one of the men, with
whom he held some conversation. The second man had
/gone into Horan's hut and the sergeant called him out.
It was alleged at the inquest that the sergeant said that
if the man did not come out he would shoot. The boot
was on the other leg, for as Sutherland demounted the
■other shot him dead. The news was brought to Cowra,
An arrest was made but nothing came of it, and Suther-
land is still unavenged.
Sergeant Denis M’Cartv succeeded Sutherland, and
about the year 1885 M’Carty asked the writer if he
would like to see the murderer of Sutherland, be-
cause, if so, the man would be on view at the police court
that morning. The police believed that the two men
were myths, and the police also well knew who shot the
-sergeant, but could not sheet the charge home. The man
.In custody had not been in Cowra from the morning that
he had brought the news of Sutherland’s death until that
week. He had been knocking about the pubs for five
-days when M’Carty warned him to, leave before midnight.
As he did not, he was arrested as a vagrant, although he
had a fixed residence in the neighborhood, and, after
•evidence, was sentenced to two months in gaol. The
magistrate expressed wonder at the audacity of the man
in putting in an appearance at Cowra “ after what had
happened ” On leaving the dock, the accused said that
it served him right ; he had been warned not to come in
contact with M’Carty. As M'Carty stood on the court-
house steps, a flash bushie warned him that the
accused man might have a shot at him when he came out.
The sergeant grimly replied* that he would have only one
chance.
The widow Sutherland married an hotelkeeper at Mur-
rumburrah —one Marina, an Italian, who had fought under
•Garibaldi, and who was one of half-a-dozen left standing
in his regiment after an engagement.
“Dave H.R.”, in anger and contempt :
“Gip” (B. 10/8/’O5) is sarcastic anent some bushmen
who, he alleges, visited the city to transact business, and,
instead of accomplishing their object, huddled themselves
up in a room on the 111th storey of a pub. (or something
like that) away from the roar of the trams and ’buses,
and the city’s din, and the ’arbor, and the corybantic
scurry. When “Gip’s” bushmen came out they tied
handkerchiefs on to verandah-posts, and hit horses in
intermaxillary spots to see how old they were, and gazed
about them like a stone idol debating whether he’d com-
mit hari-kari or cable the ’Erald and Yellowgrapii to say
that the Japanese had just won a great victory, and that
the eneniv was terribly routed, and that they were going
to win another victory to-morrow, and their chief poet
was going to make an epic poem in praise of an alliance
with England. Now, I knew some city men once
who came to the bush. “Gip” may have been one
of them—they looked like dictionaries and exaggera-
tion, and tiiev meandered in a blimey fashion up
to a shed where shearing was in process. The shearers
asked them to come in and have something to eat ; and
thev came, and they were very welcome. (It is nice to have
something to eat when you’re hungry, even if there are no
serviettes, and the quadruped is in a tin dish.) After tea,
the “pedestrians” who had no blankets were provided
with wool sheets and packs to make a bed, and every-
one went to sleep or to the pub. seven miles away. One
of those who went to the pub. happened to return about
3 a.in. in a state of undoubted sobriety because the pub.
had been burnt down before he arrived there. He caught
the city visitors quietly absconding in the ebonit.v.
Thinking (seeing they were out so early) that they
were poets and not responsible for their actions,
or else had some nefarious designs against the stars he
hailed them. They seemed as if they had to catch a train,
but three other men coming up at the moment they were
caught. In their swags was found a miscellaneous '
collection of razors and watches, sleeve links and linen,
and culinary circumstances: and they fled for the city with
despatch, pursued by various cattle-dogs, and boots and
accelerations and objurations.
* » * *
Australia still imports oak and hickory for
spokes of wheels and the like, under the notion
that these timbers are the best on earth for resisting
heavy strain ; but recent experiments at Mel-
bourne University proved Victorian blue gum far
and away superior. A blue gum slab 30in. long,
sin. wide, and 3in. thick, stood a breaking strain of
27,05011). Another piece that had been part of a
skid for five years, and had then been made into a
spoke, withstood a crushing strain of 85731 b. per
s'], in., while samples of oak and hickory only
g:ive a resistance of 38671 b. and 40651 b. per sq. in.
respectively. Truly the importing madness is a
very insane lunacy indeed.
“Yarrum”: Not generally known that
the octopus, or starfish, as fishermen generally
call it, makes a bed of shell for itself handy to the
rock it lives under. It gathers together with its
tentacles all the bright shells within a radius of
yards, and camps upon them until the approach
of danger, when it skedaddles under the adjacent
rock. I can now, by looking out for the nest,
alwavs tell just where there is a “starry” to be
had for bait.
* * * *
“C.H.S.”: Re length of Australian
snakes. In Nov. 1890, at Top Camp, Ashburton
River, W.A., I saw the two halves of a snake
which, when placed end on, measured 28 feet from
head to tail. This snake was killed close to a
waterhole in a narrow rocky gorge by three diggers,
who dispatched it with stones from the high
banks. Before giving its final wriggle it vomited
a half grown-wallaby, which, no doubt, was the
reason why it didn’t quit the spot in haste when
the trouble began. New proverb: “A gorged
snake never wins the Melbourne Cup.”
* » * *
“Drifter”: Visited a poultry farm near
Fairfield t’other day, and found the boss trying
to palm off a young hen as a rooster on to a
Chinaman who wanted only “ plumpee young
loositer.” The Chow, much amused at his per-
sistence, showed his yellow fangs in a cunning
Asiatic grin, and, pointing a skinny finger at the
hen, cried: “ Whaffor ! That fella no loositer.
Him littee girl! ”
‘‘Jimmie Pannikin”: Recently met
Peter, the Paroo poet, at Tilpa, on the Upper
Darling. In return for a small kindness, Peter
presented me with two wild turkeys and three
pomes. I helped —largely helped—to eat the
turkeys, but the poems being still uneaten, I
send them along
“ 0.P.” on the amateur farmer
The rich man says to the poor man, “ Go on the land,
young man.” But the poor young man is frightened he
can’t come oil again, if he does that. His clothes wear
out, and if he comes hack to step on to the pavement they
see he has no socks on, which is no good ; and he has to
walk backwards so the patch on him won’t show. Some
young men who don’t know what farming is like goon
the land when the rich man says so, then they are sorry
afterwards. When he doesn’t know what to do, the
young man picks the land to go on where there is no rain.
He gets more land for his money there, and then he is
flash. He gives the place a big name, then he starts to
build his house and make the fences, and do the farming
with his white shirt on. Then the neighbors come, and
say it is a fine day, and they don’t think it will rain much,
for the wind is in the wrong quarter. And the poor chap
tries to be sociable. He has read about farming in the
weekly paper, and he wipes his face with a handkerchief,
and he talks about ensilage and drainage, and the other
things which are out of place. Then the neighbors think
he has no sense, because he is not a farmer, and they
poke fun at him, and tell him to put the cabbage in the
wrong way up. And he ends just like the other farmer,
for the Government gives him seed wheat, and he eats it
all for supper ; and when he has eaten it he gets off the
land sudden-like.
9 Hr * *
The proposed society which is to take
under its care the fauna of N.S.W. may do a lot
of good if it goes the right way to work. The
young Australian is developing a passion for the
promiscuous destruction of bush life, and the
average old Australian is too busy to whack sense
into him. A society which would fix up close
seasons, set apart reserves, and move the law
along when, wanton destruction took place would
be worth encouraging.
THE LONELINESS OF A GREAT CITY.
JOK, THE COOK: “Jest bin to the city to see the
wonders. Walked four days. Thousands.
Not a face I knowed. Never was so lonely
in all me life. Dashed glad to get back ’ ere.”
He was a bush liar and then a parson.
“ When I was a youth,” he purred, “ I lived on a
station. Dad’s hobby was polled cattle. He kept
no others. One day, while rounding up the cows
on old Billyam, the stock-horse, I heard a thud of
hoofs and a muffled roar. Looking round, I
beheld'an immense black bull coming at me. And
its mouth was open. I jammed tbe spurs into
Billyam, and we went. He followed for four
miles, and then it was bull or railway gate. I
took the gate. As our hind legs cleared it, I felt
the bull’s breath on my ear. We had to chop
down that gate to get out the bull, his horns were
wedged an inch into the wood-work.”
At Wanaaring
Folk are daring—
They swim the wide and waste Paroo,
And risk a nip
From fierce bunyip.
Which sometimes bites men through and through.
At Port Pooncarie
The folk are chary
Of asking you to have a drink ;
But for old times’ sake,
Many nips they’ll take,
If you will only find the chink.
At Yantabulla,
When men are fulla
Than ticks have any right to be,
Mates just pump them out—
Thus a drinking bout
Lasts weeks and weeks, believe you me.
* * * *
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insujiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Shirley : “ Hungry Ones ” declined for various
reasons... .L.M.: “Missus” makes us feel unhappy....
S.A.G. : You want to know “in what the poem fails.”
Well, it is uninteresting, mechanical, heavy, wearisome,
uninspired, hackneyed, and it isn’t really a poem....
A. Carlyle: “ Prodigal” intensely ordinary Mulwa :
“Silhouettes” not sufficiently unusual....R.C. : “Love
and Death ”is a very \ ague thing. It isn’t lovely, and it
may be dead for alf we know to the contrary.. ..J.W.M. :
Whitebait anecdote only a variation of a joke that lias
been told until it is about dead... .S.S.C. : Neither set up
to mark, though “ Why We Are Popular” isn’t far off
it.... Merry Know: The style is bright enough, hut
your method of stating the case is much involved....
.Nemo : Pretty Ml vers.lied, hut otherwise nil Michael
K. : You’ll "send us some more.” For Heaven’s sake,
don’t!—if it’s according to sample Fred. B. (W.A.) ;
One too personal to ourselves, and the other not worth
printing at this time of day.... F.E.H. : One pretty well
done, hut subject threadbare ; other a mere futility.. ..
C.J.D. : Too long- and lean... .P. 8.: Not near print
level... .Medicus : We should say "teaspoonful,” treat-
ing teaspoonful as a substantive R. B. : Calypso is a
lady' who has been done full justice to by first-rank poets.
... .V.T.B. : One square mile is the same area as one mile
square, hut it takes four square miles to make tuo miles
square.... Kaipara: Population in 1841 was: England
and Wales, 15,914,148; Scotland, 2,020,184; Ireland,
8,175,124. Total, 26,709,456. Thanks for letter
Falder : But the dingo isn’t of " the wolf-species.” The
classification is: Family, Cunidce, Genesa, Canis, Lupus,
Vulpes— the first including all dogs, wild and tame,
except the Esquimaux “dog,” which is a w01f... .John
W. : Has no central interest.... D.H.R. : Both some
merit, but faulty in detail... .K.K. : Mostly machine-
made hulnor. One good item Jimmy : You are a
very foolish and flatulent James, indeed !... .O.S.C.
Grievous orthography. You’re beginning at the wrong
end D. O’M. ; Good, in its way—but not in our way. .
H.O. : After some hesitation, shirt joke declined M. :
“Lady Snow” struck a hard frost P.C. : You start
your poem :
What does it matter if the verse be poor and heart-
rending,
If the argument and intention are sound?
Well, it may not matter to you, but we have to sell the
paper 52 times a year and heartrending verse doesn t
help the sale... .H.H. : Don’t think y our shark was a
particularly bad shark. You simply forfeited yourdepos.t
when y’ou didn’t complete the business.... R. : “The
Pay ” is pretty good, but the hair that turned the scale
against it was the attempt to rhyme “coup” with
“scoop.” Moreover, that long, lazy 7, easy metre is a
thing to be avoided. There are scores of verse-writers
who use nothing else just because it is easy.... H.T. :
Mournfully hopeless... .R.M.D. : Some of your “facts
are quite out. Federal civil servants in many cases are
paid at lower rates than men doing the same class of work
fir the States’ Governments... .J.C. : That yarn about
Dan Kelly and Steve Hart not having been burned has
been long current, hut there’s probably nothing in it......
Diver : A statement by the Aliens on a matter of politics
doesn't convince us a bit—except to take the other view.
If, as you allege, it is the Freemasons who have persuaded
Bent to change his views about separate representation
of civil servants, then the fact is to their credit....
Africanus: Hardly enough Australian interest..... Amyas;
Pretty 7 little love verse ; we get hundreds of ’em every 7
week Elizabeth : Couldn’t read it for sobbing, and it
was wept into the W.P.B Ben D. Go : Hardly up..... .
0.8. : A free railway pass is a mighty poor “ pension
for an unemployed man J.M.N. : There would be no
chance of getting a compulsory unionism clause through
the House.. ..Spartan ; A moral disqu.sition on the evils
of drink in India is right off our heat.... Alec Zander:
Misses the mock-heroic vein intended by a nose... .Dingo :
Not above jingle level... .G.P. : Prose and verse about
vour extraordinary stomach-ache disrespectfully declined
.... Subscriber : You ask to be. furnished “ \idth an idea of
the Fancy Costume of Bubblies.’- 5 - WhAt on earth do y 7 ou
take Tub Bulletin for? Still—as you live a long way
from everywhere—the dress in Millais’ picture is a dark
green velvet suit, knee breeches, a deep. lace collar
over the jacket and a seraphic expression, lou can get
the seraphic expression by 7 post from any 7 universal
providery C.P.L. : Verse shows unusual skdl for a
child of 13, and when she is able to think originally as
well as to phrase she’ll write stuff worth publishing. At
present would advise keeping out of print, though doubt-
less many papers would publish the verses gladly
Unsuitable: Koree, lobel.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
C.D. : “ Burning Question ” only poorly illustrated
A.S. : “ Bacteria” picture not very funny.. . .Ted : A poor
collection Dorothy G. : Unfortunately, the joke isn’t
new A.W. : “Proper Spirit” might have just pulled
through with a good new joke, but with a harmless old
joke it hasn’t a possible.... A.O. : A long, long wa.v from
publication level M.H.C. : Not clear enough for repro-
duction .... Audi : Coat-of-artns joke rather played out...
Unsuitable : Fay, A.E.K., M.E.P.
If the parsons who barrack for unre-
stricted admission of colored coons to Australia
got their wish, they would probably, after a time,
imitate the action of American sky-pilots. In
various U.S. churches the “black trash” are
ordered to keep away from -the communion-rail
until the whites receive the sacrament. Mostly,
however, the black trash are ordered to keep out
of the white trash's church altogether.
The Paraffin Paint Co. have in Malthoid
Roofing a product that promises to be a world-
beater. There are forty portable roofings manu-
factured in America, and inexperienced judges
take it for granted that they are all more or less
the same, and that one is practically as good
as another. This notion is hopelessly wrong.
Malthoid is a special combination of a pure
mineral and wool felt, and no other roofing uses
the same combination to begin witii, and no other
roofing has had twenty years of unrivalled success
to finish with. There is only one portable roofing
in the world that can be described as supreme, and
its trade name is Malthoid.*
Have you got a thorough chill,
Goose all over, really ill;
Wheezing, sneezing, shrill and high,
Furrjr tongue, and watery eye ;
Oblivious to the world’s affairs,
All its sorrows, pleasures, cares,
Useless suffering, why endure?
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*


Am English -paper has , or
PROFESSES TO HAVE.AM IDEA
THAT PASSENGERS ARRivim,<;
1M /A.O S TRALA ARE E*AHUNEO
FOR COLOR-'BLIMtaMESS and if
THEY CANT PASS are
“ THROWN OV ER.BOXRD *'
ThE- Li'Nioi (jomrvSSior* HAS
COME TO ichSPECT W’lN WI ELIS*
CONPaRTNEn t at THE.
Safe Deposit- ■
“CUSTOMS OF'P IC
Now’, vuhkt is
THKT 1 ••
cMIPA/viA*'* 'HA*>
ATT£.l v \PTE.D TO ASSASSINATE
THE T)0 WAGER.
AnO STABBEO BY A
So»-t>»E»R OF THt GuAW.O
CAftue-
;'
| (AS HE.TVV.STS. /sLs/
/ <r >T ROUfND)
) Hff - WHO WOUL-t)
' L-IFT HIS UNND ACAIfNST A
EXCEPT BY WAV OF *s>o*OH»ess
L »s unworthy of the rsAr-ot of;
C HOW > ” *
One REFSOIN ASSIGNED
IfN A STATE. "PARLINRENt
for RLTAirv irsc, the.
USELESS STATE
QOV E.RCNOR. WAS )
that HE. 'ATTRACTED /'
POPULATION.’' -W
Aor\se.
*pfßC>V6.l*
S C^^^uth^rs
HAS StA'EO THAT , WREN HE
ONCE. LEAVES QFFICE WILD
HORSES WILL MOT DTR.AC, Hir-M
back.
Ys|E.t.t- , Vvhat of that * ?
/nobody expected for
rwOMEMT THATTHE
WOULD RETURN LIV^E
\ THIST.
AS
IF Th€- /N-5-W-
-irsQoißV (needed This to
rTAVRE. IT CorNPL-ET£ •
- JM A. nFvTTfcR OF ♦
VH6 -
* c "FACT is, OLP.Iv\FMs. * *
/v\y a ami e-
isOW- »>
M»S £a- ‘ AHE/V n\v oew., You "PoPoi-ATiOM ’ **
CiRU. “ 1 'S’POSE- SO '*
MiS £x ■ " THL'N its W DUTY TO ATTRACT YOU. 11
• / <Moj a N
A GLANCE ROUND.


l*>r ( 0 „j
U rl '
j @JoVi Sallied
* ‘ oW R°° I sa^
OwT In A»tffraJiA— Wfell I Vottldnt^A
I M
yer !
V y^TG^yr
" /\nd »* "tfc oj- jjodf^.
Sold nje 'f°*\
On I%<L
lh fW.lly
'Ko . —'
Hot" sjjeavKityf^-'
V Weve Ve*n
by A)
live
Locd ! ”
■'lS'e
<^ol
" III 'fc.ll yo« wIf3Ct"JII do t S^cys
vr& m ve
Ob! bio! Sa,id ov*nar
let hay*. itfe. lof! ”.
■A O I
V""7aJ
% Sty
bftfcr
* /
H^^ Cv S e nje I tlj©st fere
hVnn?2>Js retj%ierecl hf
college ? ”
" Aye. Ut I s?vy! IjaycnT I got"
thrill— denied fjoltcaj'"or v>y-
Jfjitio ~ a, fellow cv* bave fer bis
ernblcn, '?” 1
0. yes ” here's sKu»K-you
CV> h** bav'gVh— on
"ti rv>c | ,^7 > ' r ?en'f‘~!
ANNEXED.
The legalit y of the Australian flag and seal is being questioned in England. The distinctly national Australian emblems of the emu and kangaroo
were annexed, it appears, by the first Lord Rosmead (Sir Hercules Robinson) when he was raised to the peerage. Permission had to be given to him by
the Imperial officials. because the emu and kangaroo were not “on record” to anybody.— Melbourne Age. J


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS:
SUITABLE
SUGGESTIONS IN
TABLE SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Dalton China.
BISCUIT BARREL, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s lid, 17s fid,
22s 6d, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
O Vl XDKUS.
BUTTEK DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Cut Glass, 20s.
Other S; vies, 8s Gd, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRICE LIST FOR SPOONS AND FORKS.
A QUALITY. B QUALITY. C QUALITY".
Table Spoons, 20s Half-Doz. Table .Spoons, 12s 6d Half-Doz. Table Spoons, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 20s Half-Doz. Table Forks, 12s 6d Ha..-Doz. Table Forks, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Spoons, 15s Half-Doz. Table Spoons, 10s 6d Half-Doz. Table Spoons, 7s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 15s Half-Doz. Table Forks, Its 6d Half-Doz. Table Forks, 7s 6d Half-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 10s Half-Doz. Tea Spo. n.,. (is (id Half-Doz. Tea Spoons, 5s Half-Doz.
IN THREE DESIGNS—FIDDLE, OLD ENGLISH. AND KING.
Our Spoons and Forks are well made and beautifully finished
They are absolutely the best made in England, and will wear a lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS.
Corinthian Column
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-Plated,
6in. high, las 6d eaci
Other Styles,
8s 6d, lCs, 12s 6a,
17s 6d, 21s.
vm
m
em
m
:• v
' • -'
2«W >
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Rainbow Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, Ss 6d, 10s 6J.
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
WSISBSi
v'
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD AND WAITER Combined, Pure Silver-
Plated on Nickel Silver, with KNIFE to Match,
£2 10s. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, £2 ss, £3.
Our Catalogue
Contains over 1500
Illustrations of
Watches, Clocks.
Jewellery, Silver-Plate,
Purses, and Optical Goods,
Write for it now.
We send it to any Address
In Australia
Post Free.
10
£-3
B% '
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Splendid Timekeper, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 30s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 255.
Our Prices
Consistent with the
Best Quality,
are Low. Why?
As Direer Importers
and large Cash Buyers,
We sell direct to
Our Customers,
Thus saving them all
Middlemen's Profits.
Are the Lowest
Wingfield Rowbotham* Ct
A. SAUNDERS.
SET OF CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel,
Hand Finished, Securely Riveted Handles,
27s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s. 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DOUBLE INKSTAND, Cut, Glass
Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated, £2 5s Other Styles,
17s Gd, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-Pldted
llin. Oval, Special Value, £2 ss.
£3 ss, £3 10s.
on Nickel Silver,
Other Styles, £3
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver Plated,
Handsojmely Engraved, 255.
Other Styles, 16s 6d, 20s.
SOs, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-Plated AFTERNOON TEA
AND TONGS, Fancy Embossed Handles
Solid Silver, 30s, 355, 40s.
SPOONS
, 12s 6d.
■m
rail
- -"I
■ n
A. SAUNDERS.
TTJ . iim COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Fern Design, Gilt Lined, comprising Four
PieS made for us by James Dixon and Sons, £5. Other Styles, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO 10s, to £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
Cake Basket, Sugar and Cream Combined, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER OR MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 355.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME, Pure Silver-Plated,
Beautifully Fluted, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, SOs, 355.
A. SAUNDr-RS.
FOUR BOTTLE LUNCH OR DINNER
CRUET, Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 21s, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE OR FRUIT BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, £2 ss. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3
£3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated
4in. high, in Four Styles,
15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
mm
mnwmra
KBSSsrS
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTERDISH, Pure Silver-Plated
on Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
Sydney
II i
I
1
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-Mounted GUT GLASS
SALTS AND SPOONS,
in Silk-Lined Case, 12s 6d.
Heart Shaped, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK Pure Silver-Plated,
Leaf Design, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG AND TOAST RACK
COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Glass FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure Silver-Plated Base, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2, £2 ss, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
KNIFE RESTS, Cut Glass,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Larger, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME AND
SPOONS,
Pure Silver-Plated, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER AND TOAST COMBINATION
Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass Lining, 16s 6d.
I=l*^
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved, £2.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809. 811. 813, 815. 817
GEORGE-STREET.
Opposite
railway
STATION.


z
y
a
-- )
/ 7
Ik
i 1 \\\\
Jsri
))/
'w,*v
..i)j)|"
v/
w
7
i?
$
&
a
ra
\X'
J
*9*
ft
*-o
y
V
'■4 l
U
j£
o--rr
Or
*w>
<5
uk?
yj
v?
x;
o
2
uj
H
TRADE MAR
)7
iT
a
>
THE BEAUTIFUL
AND
HARMONIOUS LINES
OF
WOMEN OF
FASHION
whose Stylish Gowns
depend almost entirely
upon a perfectly Fitting
Corset, will ask for a
“RD.
because it is the Best
Constructed Corset.
Made in Europe by ex-
pert makers who study
the human form to
attain perfection. All
First-class Retailers sell
the
P.D.
11
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL FASHIONABLE DRAPERS.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OP FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DAVID STORED, & SOHS’ ThreeColor3 - BLACK ’ BED and BLUE -
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the ONLY Absolutely
SAFE S' 00 '-.
wnß ■" Marking
OR
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real good stamps, send to
FRED. HA6EN,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
What is the reason for the dank, mouldy,
silence of that “ people’s watchdog,” Sydney
Truth, in regard to the N.S. W. Lands scandals ?
‘ ‘ Politic us ” : A recent Bulletin para-
graph re the action of Messrs. Bell and Denham
on the Betterment Bill (Queensland) is sadly in
error. Both of those Ministers spoke most
effectively in favor of the measure. The para-
graph did them a grave injustice.
Last Monday Sydney Herald and Tele-
graph both announced that the first train that ran
in Australia was that which left Sydney for Par-
ramatta on 26th September, 1855. A very casual
glance at Coghlan’s statistics would have shown
them that they were both wrong. The first train
in Australia left Melbourne for Port Melbourne
on 13th September, 1854.
Premier Carruthers, of N.S.W., says he
has discovered that in the Don Dorrigo scrub 100
acres will keep a family, and that there is room at
Dorrigo for 2500 additional families. He promises
that the scrub shall be thrown open within the
. next 12 months. But some wild persons have
been talking of bringing out millions of immi-
; grants and mentioning the Dorrigo scrub as if it
would hold them all.
Sydney Telegraph, rallying the Ashfield
electors to return another supporter for the N.S.
Willis Reform Government, published lists to
show that, in a House of 90, Carruthers has 43
followers, the Labor party 25, and the Waddell
party 20. Thus, on its own showing, Carruthers
holds office with a minority following. As to the
deadly wickedness of doing that, see Telegraph
files when Watson was Australian Prime Minister.
J. H. Garruthers twitted the Labor party
recently for having supported the Government
which was in office when the chief Lands scandals
occurred. Whereupon M‘Gowen dug out of
Hansard this quotation from Carruthers, violent-
ly approving of Crick’s land administration :
So far as the Minister’s administration was concerned,
he might say at once that he approved of it more heartily
than he approved of the administration of any other
member of the Government.— Nov. 5, 190%.
Some months ago two “ gaps in the law ”
were pointed out to the N.S. W. Attorney-General.
One (re Slattery) where property was endangered
owing to want of protection from trustees ; and
the other where the lives of infants were at the
mercy of the amateur midwife, whose unsupported
certificate was sufficient warrant for the burial of
the unwelcome baby. Steps to rectify the first
matter have been taken with great energy, but the
other missing link is still missing.
PLEASE REMEMBER AUSTRALIA.
Is the High Commissioner to supersede the six Agents-
General, or is he simply to compete with them?— Age.
Ought to have a tine effect if we can gel a good
stand for them to borrow at —say some
Piccadilly corner.
A discussion in N.S.W. Parliament on
having another public holiday to be called “Em-
pire Day” was appropriately enough “counted
out.” The idea is to knock off work for a day,
and spend some borrowed money on crackers and
flags, and talk about “the Empire.” Members
yawned arid' went out to see about a dog, and the
quorum bells rang, and the dog was reckoned of
more importance than the Empire; and that
ended the matter.
Sydney Telegraph, in its blind rage
against Australian manufacturers, can’t even add
two and two correctly. The other day it had to
put in this painful explanation :
In our leading article yesterday on the subject of the
duty on harvesters it was stated that the duty on the re-
valuation arbitrarily fixed by Mr. William Lyne would
amount to £l6 ss. The doubled duty of 25 per cent,
should, of course, have been calculated on the invoiced
value of £32, and not on the fictitious value of £65 fixed
by the Minister for Customs. The duty on each machine
at £32 would thus be £B.
One Bill in Queensland Premier Morgan’s
programme for present State session (re the
better housing of shearers and sugar workers) is
sadly needed. In some of the plantations up
North the white man has to hang out amongst
surroundings that the Pacific Islanders’ inspector
would promptly object to if the occupants were
Kanakas, but the white man, having no inspector,
must put up with them or be sacked. And when
he is sacked be reads in the Piebald Press that
“ White labor on the sugar plantations is utterly
unreliable.”
Queensland is finding
out every day now what a
fool it was when it hoaxed
itself for years into believ-
ing that it had a “ business-
man Government,” and that
the bottom would drop out
of things if it made a
change. For years the old
crowd tried, or professed to
try, to get the ocean-going
mail steamers to go up to
Brisbane and carry away
produce; and it failed.
Yet what that crowd tried
for years to do and couldn’t,
Premier Morgan has
brought off in a few months.
And he did it without offer-
ing anything special in the
way of a bribe to the Orient
people ; he was simply able
to show them that Queens-
land was living in a sober,
respectable, hard-working
way, and wasn’t existing on
loans and fireworks, and
that people were producing
things to export instead of
loafing on borrowed mil-
lions. The Queensland but-
ter business will probably
be the first one to look up
as a consequence of the new
arrangement, and it has al-
ready looked up something
considerable.
Dawes Point, to the
west of Sydney harbor, or-
dered to be set apart for a
public park, was once the
only place where imported
packages or parcels could be
landed. Imports landed at
any other wharf were seized
by the authorities and
generally confiscated. There
were not many people then
to look after smugglers, and Governor Macquarie
simplified the matter by making all importers
unload at one wharf.
Joe Carruthers has given N.S.W. due
notice that when he leaves office as Premier “wild
horses will not drag him back.” Which is a very-
safe statement indeed. There are at least 16
cases in N.S.W. alone of a defeated Premier coming
back to office, but not one of these Premiers was
dragged back by wild horses. They just returned
in the usual way. And it was the same in all the
other States. Nor is there any record of a once-
defeated Premier coming back to office drawn by
wild oxen, or by the wild ass of Persia, or travel-
ling behind any other remarkable animal. More
than that, there is probably not one man in Syd-
ney who, when he leaves his office at night, would
be dragged back there in the morning by wild
horses. The tramcar is much safer.
It is announced that all the beautiful
scenic effects on the Tasmanian stamps, and the
swan on the stamps of Westralia, are
to be done away with by the Aus-
tralian Government, and this coun-
try reduced to the old dead level,
with the countenance of Edward
VII dabbed on the corner of its
envelope. No reason is assigned
for the change. Of course, if it
does any good to Edward VII to
have his face on our stamps, he
should certainly have his face
there. The man who would refuse
to aid and comfort a fellow crea-
ture, struggling on a throne with
a large family, by putting his head
on a stamp, is unworthy of the
name of old woman. Or if Ed-
ward VIPs head does any good
to Australia, or if it is a more
wonderful work of Nature than
Mount Wellington, or Jenolan,
or the Barron Falls, then again
the new idea is all right. But
if none of these things are so,
then the proposed change reveals the person re-
sponsible for it as one whose artistic sense isn’t
equal to the job of white-washing a board fence.
The coldest remark in Deakin’s reply to
Carruthers re the Federal capital question was
the last one
The papers which were laid on the table of the N.S.W.
Parliament do not disclose any “compact” agreed to
prior to the adoption of the Constitution by “ the people
of the Mother State.”
And Joseph, who had been spread-eagling a great
deal about the alleged “compact,” probably felt
like the slavey in “What Happened to Jones,”
when she put out her hand for a dollar and got a
large lump of ice.
G. H. Heid, babbling at Sydney Ex-
change, puffed himself out larger than usual,
and remarked that “ until we got rid of
the prejudice against worthy immigrants
we would not have removed the biggest
stumbling-block to our progress.” Well, who is
it that has this “prejudice against worthy immi-
grants”—the party that wants to provide them
with work when they land, or Beid and Joe
Cook, who want, the work of making things done
in some foreign country? The Foreign-trade
party is the party of the open-door and the empty
cupboard ; and it’s the state of the cupboard and
not of the door that the immigrant troubles about.
It is difficult to know what Deakin could
do that would satisfy the Freetrade push. Car-
ruthers proposed to carry the points of dispute
about the Federal capital to the High Court for
settlement, and Deakin replied cordially that if
Carruthers would devise some legal process by
which these points could be brought before the
court he was quite agreeable to the arrangement.
Then Wilks yapped about the “ ignominious
manner in which the Prime Minister had gone on
his knees to the N.S.W. Government and asked it
to discover a legal difficulty which could be carried
to the High Court.” Ordinary courtesy is wasted
on the Wilkses of this world. When Deakin re-
fuses to do what N.S.W. wants, it is a Victorian
conspiracy, or an outrage, or something, and when
he cordially agrees with N.S.W., he is cursed by
worms like Wilks for not disagreeing.
WANTED , A HOUSE-BREAKER.
Quite a small panic is created in Melbourne by the audacity
and persistence of the local housebreakers, but the Legislative
Council still stands intact.
Last week N.S.W. Assembly put its foot
down for once, and refused to waste the time of
its members sitting on a Select Committee, to
worry out the petty alleged grievances of two
asylum attendants, who were sacked on a charge
of incompetence somewhere in tne dark ages. Pity
is that the Assembly doesn’t keep in that frame
of mind. For years now, it has been almost im-
possible to fire the most useless or intoxicated
barrow-man off a Government job without Parlia-
ment calling the parties before it and hearing the
case personally at great length.
George Reid on immigration :
If it were only remembered that every individual who
landed at Circular Quay, Sydney, brought work to 50
different trades we might enter on a new era of prosperity.
So we might, if these 50 trades were here. But if,
under the accursed system of low tariff, few local
industries and huge imports, the 50 trades to which
the immigrant who arrives at Circular Quay sup-
plies work are mostly in England or Germany or
America, while N.S.W. has to borrow money to
support the immigrant on public works or relief
jobs, where is the new era of prosperity ?
Premier Carruthers’ statement in N.S.W.
Assembly that Pilcher, K.C., is not retained to
generally cross-examine witnesses before the
Lands Commission, but only to cross-examine when
required, is worse than anything John Haynes has
said against the Government. The Premier and
other Ministers are liable to be witnesses, but Pil-
cher is not given a general cross-examining job—
which would be sure to include them. He only
cross-examines when he is told, and leaves it alone
when he isn’t told. Now when is he most likely
not to be told ?
Mr. Abraham Hoffnung, chairman of
London Board of Directors of Tasmanian G. M.
Co., Beaconsfield (Tas.), of the Mt. Boppy G.M.
Co. (N.S.W.), and of Hoffnung and Co., Sydney,
to a Launceston Daily Telegeaph reporter,
concerning the alleged “driving of capital out
of the country” by Australian Socialistic legis-
lation
It is not so. For a person to make a statement like
that is to stamp him as not conversant with the facts. The
English people have money to invest, and they are
partial to Australian mining, and Labor legislation in
Australia has not, nor will not, deter them from putting
capital into what they consider a good thing.
A lawyer writes :
A landlord and tenant law of a single clause will go
nearer to giving all-round satisfaction than any number of
complicated provisions such as N.S.W. Parliament is now
worrying over. The law should simply give the landlord
power to eject at a week’s notice —in other words, to
stop supplying house just as a butcher can stop supply-
ing meat. If he Wants arrears of rent, let him sue, as the
grocer or baker does, and if he obtains a judgment let
him sell up, but only as a grocer or baker may do. Wor-
thy landlords at present suffer at the hands of tricky
tenants, who will neither pay nor leave, and worthy
tenants are unmercifully harried by harpy landlords, who
use their power to distrain in circumstances in which a
court would refuse its sanction.
“The Great Fight ” that George Reid used
to babble about before Deakin stood from under,
still struggles on in a feeble, spasmodic fashion.
For some reason Reid imagines he is popular with
the women voters of this great country, and still
dreams of coming; back to power on the crest of a
vast female uprising, at the next election. In the
meantime, with Reid out of office and the N.S.W.
State Reform Government slowly becoming not fit
to be s en dead with, the anti-Socialists are in
parlous plight. Their latest idea is to canvas for
signatures to a petition against Socialism. Whom
the petition is to be addressed to nobody seems to
know.
The! N.S.W. “Reform” Government pro-
mises to put a sum on the Estimates to recoup
Richards, M.L.A., and John Haynes their ex-
penses over Haynes’ petition to Parliament
against Richards’ election. Haynes maintained
that grave irregularities were allowed in the
election, and that his defeat was due thereto.
These charges were all held disproved by the
Elections and Qualifications Committee, and the
quasi-Government support given to the claim of
the unsuccessful petitioner is hard to understand.
Richards might possibly claim a reimbursement,
but Haynes’ claim seems a strange one for a noble
and honest and economical Ministry to recognise.
If N.S.W. Minister for 'Lands Ashton is
wise, he will suggest to the secretary of the Lands-
Commission to bring up a few transactions (there
must be some available, surely) in which Mr.
Ashton acted as land agent—just to let the public
see what fees he got, and what was the nature of
the services. The Bulletin believes in Ashton’s
honesty. But it is known that he acted as a land
agent, and the public has a right to see what sort
of agent he was.
The fossilised majority in the Vic. House
of Landlords pointed in all seriousness to the
defeat of Lord Mayor M’Eacharn by the
democratic Maloney as a final proof of Woman’s-
Unfitness for the Suffrage. The Federal Govern-
ment gave woman a chance to return the Chief
Magistrate of the city of Melbourne to his former
seat in Parliament—and she preferred Maloney.
Therefore she is as incompetent to vote properly
as the men who likewise preferred Maloney.
Nothing could be clearer. Everybody who doesn’t
vote against Maloney, the Landlords believe, is
unfit to have a vote. In fact the only use of a vot-
is to keep out Maloney.
Queensland wants more revenue. Educa-
tion Minister Barlow says he could do with-
£loo,ooo instead of £6OOO for new school buildings
and repairs. Some of the schools are tumbling
down. An old hospital morgue does duty at
Toowoomba as a class room. Ipswich crams 100-
pupils into a low-roofed, badly-lighted, ill-ven-
tilated skillion 50 years old. Bundaberg Board
resigned the other day because it could not get aid
to build a play-shed. “I have had that morgue-
on my back for a year and a half, ” lamented Bar-
low, the other day, and he owns pretty broad
shoulders. Other Departments show signs of
inefficiency through depleted expenditure. A
progressive land-tax would set many things right
in Bananaland.
The Prohibition fight in Otago is going to
be hard and bitter this election, and the cold-tea.
section is already straining every sinew till it
cracks. Port Chalmers—about to sell beer again
for two or three months—will certainly vote-
no-license ; and so, almost as surely, will Bruce —
where also, for the moment, a man may get a
drink in a straightforward way. Behind the Pro-
hibition strength in the Otago back-country there
is, as chief cause, neither the love of sobriety nor
the fear of God, but merely an inordinate idolatry
o’ the siller. If there were any possibility of
stopping church collections, the Prohibition dis-
tricts of Otago would vote No--Collection by
tremendous majorities. But democracy is not yet
so far advanced.
Premier Bent’s Bill to Regulate Public
Meetings in Victoria has been tabled. It briefly
provides that “any person who, in or near any
hall, room, etc., in which a public meeting is being
held, behaves in a riotous, indecent-, threatening,
or insulting manner, or uses language to that,
effect, shall be liable to a fine of £5 or one month.”
Also, “ any person present at such meeting may
take proceedings against any other person in
respect of such offence.” It seems comprehensive
enough, but, if it passes in that shape, the next
time Bent tells an elector publicly that he “isn’t,
fit to carry guts to a bear,” he will probably find
himself served with half-a-dozen summonses next,
morning. And then the local honorarium will-
have the pain of discharging him with a caution.
UP-TO-DATE.
“ Now, this Bar abbas was a land agent! ”
Victoria’s hopeless House of Rich Land-
lords last week threw out the Women’s Suffrage-
Bill by 16 votes to 11—this making the eighth re-
jection of the measure. The same old weariful
platitudes and absurdities were trotted out, Ena-
bling actually advancing it as a reason for refusing
woman the suffrage that, though the women pro-
posed to be enfranchised would, as far as the
Council was concerned, only be ratepayers, they
would almost certainly vote the Labor ticket.
Evidently Enabling, Miller, Payne, Manifold and
the rest have a better opinion of their womenfolk’s
voting capabilities than the women have of the
Eats’ legislative powers. But it is a fool of a legis-
lative Landlord who openly advertises himself as so
politically corrupt as to refuse a person the suffrage
solely because he thinks that person will not vote
for him.
♦
When other lips and other hearts
With flattering vows allure,
Remember that your truest friend
Is Woods’ Gee at Peppeemint Cube.
When frosty stars gleam overhead,
And earth’s in wintry moods,
The cold attacks in throat and head,
Then you’ll remember Woods.*


I
m
i)
■
W- • jff ■
LIPP
One of the finest
Pianos imported*.
We stock 4 Models in Uprights
and a BOUDOIR GRAND* * * *
We shall be pleased
to show them to you
if you will call. . . *
£
Country Residents can obtain
CATALOGUES Free by Post.
We sell LIPP PIANOS on EASY
TERMS. •
ALSO*
STOCK
VIOLINS, & HANDOLI NS t jt GUITARS,
AND ALL STRINGED INSTRUMENTS.
BAND AND ORCHESTRAL INSTRUHENTS.
ALL CATALOGUES FREE.
W. H. PALING (a. Co., Ltd 338 George Street. Sydney
BRISBANE CEL
NEWCASTLE.
ARTIFICIAL
LIIBS.^
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS
* Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
IGHLAND SOCIETY OF M.£. WALES.
MISS JESSIE MACLACHLAN'S
FAREWELL CONCERT,
Under the Patronage and in the Presence of His Excel-
lency Sir Frederick Darley (Lieutenant-Governor), Lady
Harley and Suite, Brigadier-General Gordon and Staff,
Colonel G. It. Campbell (Scottish Rifles.)
TOWN HALL., SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 26.
A great gathering of the clans to bid Miss Maclachlan
“ Beannachd Leat.”
Box Plan at Paling’s.- W. C. MARSHALL, Hon. Treas.
ss, 3s, 2s, Is. J. CURRIE ELLES, Hon. Sec.
OSTRICH PLUfIES
FROM THE FAMOUS FARMS OF SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
■I A j'g* POST FREE
IW / U to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes.
Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order payable to
John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 1J yds.'
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
[Mention Tee Bulletin..] .
Corner of Strand Arcade
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
THE LAST OF SIX.
Amusements.
CRITERION
Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
JOHN P. SHERIDAN.
LAST NIGHTS of the PRESENT SYDNEY SEASON
Which Positively Closes on FRIDAY, AUGUST 25.
MRS. DOOLEY’S JOKE.
LAST NIGHTS of
J" ° h ml Jt?". S lx eri cL a n
in his Inimitable Representation of the Character of
MRS. DOOLEY.
i@T Prices and Box Plan as Usual.
o ri
TERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, .
THE BROUGH-FLEMMINC COMEDY COMPANY
in the Great London Success,
“BEAUTY and the BARGE."
MR. BROUGH as CAPTAIN JAMES BARLEY
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day Sale at White Rose Caf6.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COMMENCING MONDAY, AUGUST 28,
For SIX NIGHTS and ONE MATINEE ONLY.
First Production on any stage of Curtis, Hunt and
Orchard’s New, Original and Whimsical Comic Opera
THE COQUETTE.
Produced regardless of expense bv a large and efficient
Company numbering over ONE HUNDRED PERFORMERS.
Prices—3s, 2s, &Js ; Reserved Seats, 4s ; Plan at Paling’s.
QENTENARY HALL, SYDNEY.
SEASON COMMENCING
MONDAY, AUGUST 28,
The Popular and Celebrated
BELLE CROME COMPANY,
VOCALISTS, HUMORISTS, MUSICIANS, and
UNRIVALLED BELLRINGERS.
PRICES—2s, Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
Price 6dL.
Post Free
y
©□
imm
Kilpatricks
Address all Corres- \
PONDENCE TO
Tatters all’s Hotel, Sydney
Cable Addresses :
Kilparatick, Sydney ;
Hagenrich, New York
E. J. K ,LPRTRICK
Originator & Producer of
SENSATIONALISM.
KILPATRICK’S Original Creations .
.KILPATRICK’S FAMOUS CAPITOL STEPS RIDE.
„ FAMOUS AUTOMOBILE RIDE.
„ SPIRAL LOOP-THE-LCOP.
„ CYCLE DAZZLE.
„ LEAPING THE CHASM.
„ AERIAL LOOP-THE-LOOP.
„ FLYING MACHINES.
„ . RACING AUTOMOBILES.
„ RAILWAY COLLISIONS.
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of Miss WINIFRED WARNER, Miss FREDA
BRANDON, Miss FAN.IY POWERS, Mr. TOD CALLOWAY.
THE LAZARUS TRIO. MISS FLORENCE CH4LLIS.
Also, THE MODERN MILO, and CRUIKSHANK, THE
CARICATURIST. FREDA NIEMANN.
JAINTY BABY COOPER. J. W. WINTON and M'CINTY.
Treat Success of Mgster BOBBIE WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE DUDLLIGH. Also, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
IARRY ROCHFORT, HARRY HART, FRANK YORKE.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
PRANK LEON, World’s Champion Dancer.
GEO. STILLWELL, Handkerchief Manipulator & Illusionist.
ALICE GUERRA, French and Spanish Soubrette.
KELLY & AGNES, Sketch Artists.
McAULEY SISTERS, Comedy Sketch Duo. -
CHAS. DIAMOND. Ml >0 BEATRICE, Expert Musicians.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Combination of
Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in the Up-to-Date
Russian-Japanese War Drama,
BESIEGED IN PORT ARTHUR.
i G3T PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee & Director .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 26,
teturn to Melbourne of MISS NELLIE STEWART and
Mr. MUSGROVE’S ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY in
OP 0* ME THUMB, VSS;*#
MARQUIS DE TREVILLE,
a Romantic Farce by AV. J. Broadhurst.
SS' PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ P Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 26,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
the Great Daly’s Theatre Triumph,
THE Cl IMG A LEE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, AVEDNESDAYS.'
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MR. MACK’S SEASON.
LAST TAA r O NIGHTS of
MR. ANDREW WKACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, in
TOM MOORE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. .. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TAVO NIGHTS of
HER SECOND TIME ON EARTH.
Presented*!)} 1 the
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUG. 26, A SAILOR’S SWEETHEART.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.


U.S.A. Consul Orlando Baker, back in
Sydney, savs there is no unemployed difficulty in
America, as there is “plenty of work in the
country.” Plenty of work is the unfailing solu-
tion of the difficulty wherever it exists, and the
best way of getting plenty of work is for a country
to do its own work at home.
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £62.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—'l'll IC—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mol mi) Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
. out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. 0. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98.401 assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -eouitably distributed.
Head Offioe:
*l9 & 421 COI.BINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
™ E Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated, under the Companies A ct, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Jhe Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised
Paid-up
Uncalled .
Reserved Fund .
(Invested in Government Stock)
£lOO,OOO
250,000
| 20,000
£700,000
.70,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ..
2,000,000 0 o
1,400,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total .. .. .'. 5,400,000 0 0
Directors :
Hon. Sir Normand MacLatirin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walkkr.
The Hon. Reginald James Blacii, M.L C.
Sir Jambs R. Fairfax, lvt.
Richard Binnib. Esq.
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular **. nefO.iabU.hrjjg.~t to wortt
General Manager.
TO LET,
“Westeila,” Hobart.
TO LET (unfurnished) for 3 or 5 years, the
above well-known establishment, centrally
situated, over 50 rooms, exclusive of bath rooms,
servants’ quarters, &c., large garden and grounds,
every convenience.
RENT—First Year, £200;
Second, £225; Third, £250.
Having been recently thoroughly renovated, it is
eminently suitable for a Private Boarding House,
a Boarding School, or Private Hospital.
Apply to
TRUSTEES ESTATE Late GEORGE ADAMS,
69 COLLINS STREET, HOBART.
C. Stratmann’s
FINE
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES •»»
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET , Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson s Auction Boom.
Shipping.
nxr. id. n..
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA ”and JAPAN
From SYDNEY EvervFour Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 2nd SEPTEMBER.
*PRINZ SIGISMUND, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
*WILLEHAD, 47G1 tons .. .. 28th OCTOBER.
"Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
ril Try It.‘
T-te Only Certain
Uoxistache Producer.
gapiliarine
Poßted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOUK AQICNTS.
Tht RttuU.
CRAIG 4, AIT KEN. N.S.W. Barber’s Supplj
House. 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, VY.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
ABERDEEN
T. F. Spalding ..
N. Allan ..
H. A. Schleman „
Noun, Aug. 25
Noon, Sept. 9
Noon, Sept. 20
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
2nd SEPTEMBER,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QOE A.3>TIC S.S. 00. A. and A. LOffE,
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH
$| SEA
CRUISES -
To miss t.he sickly end of the Winter,
and at the same time enjoy a Holiday Cruise
through the most out-of-the-way corners of
the Pacific, you must book for a 50-day Bound
Trip per the “Moresby,” sailing 7th September.
Cost, £25.
PHILP & GO., Ltd., SYUNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
$
&
&
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.’w.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT Kl). u
Capital Paid-up .. .. •• •• £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FusD(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. • ■ • • 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
•• £ 2 ' ooo ' ooo
Total Capital
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright* Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M‘Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Karquhar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write Jor Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
September 4,
October 2,
October 30.
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE ROUTE TO ENGLAND.
RATES TO LONDON.
First Glass £55 to £66
Second Glass ... £35 to £4O
iar WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Illustrated Pamphlets furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passengei Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNC.Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out -to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character—very
superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
' —THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOlt MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.'
Transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, August 25.
S.S. Grantala (from Mel-
" bourne), August 30.
S.S. Burrumbeet, Sept. 5.
I S.S. Allinga, August 25.
f S.S. Wollowra, September 2.
liest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime^
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract withttia
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, an 1
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, lnaia, Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Olfices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVii.iA.l (JON VENIENCE KOli A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe wa Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
"VT EWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one. of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the’noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
Hodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every coniror and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, ‘i to 5 Beaconsfield Parana.
Sr. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and besc-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, *-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Th.e Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


THE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “ It’s an
1 Honest Watch.” It teils you the correct time always—you
never find it mislead you. 17 you want ju3t such a Watch we can
recommend for your perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest
Watches, prices for which range from 14/6 to £70. We will be
pleased to post a copy to any who will make the request. We
mention on this page half-a-dozen dependable Watches, any of
which we will send free and safe by post, together with our
written guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
r
4/2 GEORGE 67 Sydney
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance.
The movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring,
and compensation balance.
The winding is keyless,
and the cases are of the
Hunting style, made of
Hall-Marked Solid Silver.
We guarantee and sell this
Watch for
A Three-Quarter Plate
English Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full plate Watch. The balance wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance, En-
glish Lever Watch, with
guarantee, for
A Special Dust
Protected Watch
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, g-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
s or English Lever,
and we post it to-
gether with our war-
ranty, for
m
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc., is
on the same system as the
men’s size. We will post
one free with guarantee
on receipt of
e
An Ideal Lady's Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in
every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
Get a GoH Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives no pleasure, buy
it now wb<n you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14et. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-pl ,te Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Soring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this exception-
al one, with full
case and movement
guarantee, for
©
o
Even John Bull—Jew-driven, careless,
Freetrade John Bull—felt a shiver along his
Spine the other day when figures were published
showing the growing increase in the number of
aliens qualifying as British pilots. In 1888 they
were 35 in number : now they number 200—200
foreigners holding the keys to British ports.
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under tie management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
Bent’s State brickworks have got so far
that a vote of £9OOO for them, in the Surplus
Revenue Bill, has passed the Assembly, and will
catch the eves of the Fat Landlords as soon as
they condescend to meet. In the Assembly Bent
weakened somewhat, and said that, instead of the
State working the plant, he would let the works
to a co-operative co., which would supply the
Government with bricks at 255. per 1000, instead
of the combine’s 40s. Nothing was said about
terms as to rent, tenure, &c., or as to supplying
the public ; in fact, Bent said as little as he could,
and what he did say wasn’t as good as what he
might have said. Yet he had a lot of encourage-
ment to go straight ahead ; for, in spite of all the
criticism in the House, and the Argus’ ravings
outside, when Watt, the renegade Democrat,
forced a division on the item, he could only get
one member out of 51 to vote with him—Tory
Boyd, whose own coal mines are heavily subsidised
by the State.
A bit of recent S. Australian history.
C. W. Chandler, proprietor of Adelaide Free
Lance, was convicted of libel, and sentenced to
six months’ imprisonment, principally because he
had written down Australian interference in the
Boer war. In Adelaide gaol he conversed with a
number of prisoners on the criminal side, and was
Btruck by the fact that many of them were unable
to explain why they had committed the offences
that had gaoled them. All they knew was that
they were drunk on “old red” wine, and woke
up in the cells. When Chandler was released
he started Adelaide Truth, and one night de-
liberately intoxicated himself on the pinky
stuff. He related his awful experiences in
his paper, and then started to fight the
poisonous adulterations in a weekly column
chronicling the doings of the “Pinky” Club.
Government interference followed, there was an
analysis, and the result was the, at least partial,
destruction of the trade in that kind of wine which
is sold at about 3d. a bucket, and has three sheols
in each bucket. But a robust Adulteration Pre-
vention Act has not yet arrived, and the man who
drugged himself with “old red ” keeps pegging
away.
“ GRAND PRIX ” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
m t i
i
I ! IH
& DIGESTIVE TA#
VEGESALIS
TABLE SALT
WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
Does not Cake.
USE IT WHEN COOKING
VEGETABLES instead of
OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Of Leading Storekeepers
YEGESALIS Co., 2, Tower Royal, London, E.C.
ENGLAND. A
Sir George Turner
was the greatest Treasurer
Australia ever had.
Argus Sause
is the greatest treasure
Australia will ever get.
Ask your grocer for a bottle
of Argus Sauce or send
to us for a free sample if
you have not yet tried it,
and decide for yourself.
BLOCG BROS.,
24=38 Spencer St., Melbourne.
ft
Second
Edition.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER:
Harry Moran’
His ’Ventures
and Veises.
Price 1/1
Post
Fret,
By FRANK RENAR.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydn;' l
ART UNION.
WHO WANTS IT?
£5OO for ts.
SECOND PRIZE, value JOIOO
THIRD „ „ JB6O
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 28th.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Early.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Wide-.toke KSair-Clippes*
She Best Hair Cutter Ever Invented.
Only 8/-
Carriage
Paid.
ADJUSTABLE COMBS FOR DIFFERENT LENGTH 3.
SHORT, MEDIUM AND LONG.
Really Three Clippers in One
WILL SOON SAVE ITS COST IN A FAMILY.
KEEP THE HAIR TIDY AND LOOK SMART.
obstacle in the way of these automatic hair-clippers
. coming into general use in families has been that each
Clipper was set to cat only one length, and thus sereral
clippers were needed to properly complete the cutting. The
Wide-Awake Hair Clipper is supplied with adjustable combs,
so that, where necessary, the hair can he cut almost as close as
sharing, or it may be cut a quarter or half an inch long as de-
sired. This overcomes all the difficulties hitherto experienced
and thus anyone may readi'y undertake to cut hair with a
clipper. There is no danger, as with scissors, as it is impossible
to cut the skin. Men’s and hoys’ hair should be kept well cut,
both for the sake of good health and smart appearance, but
frequent visits to the hairdresser’s are tiresome and expensive
The price of the clipper is only Bs., thus it will soon save its
cost in a family. Sent packed in a neat box carriage paid to
any address complete for only Bs.
The Union Wlfg. & Agency Co.
359 an( i 361 Collins Street, Melbourne,


wmam
.JWs
POSTAGE STAMPS
EARLY ISSUES of Australians,
1850-’7O purchased. Highest
Cash Prices Paid.
Australian and Foreign Stamps on Sale.
Albums, Sets, & ,c. w, stamp brincs catalogue.
Selections of Stamps Sent’on Approval.
G.P.0.; Box 1312,
Bankers:
City Bank'of Sydney.
WALTER A. HULL, postage stamp dealer,
THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S.
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
’S
&
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It was hardly to be expected that the Aus. ra-
lian Rugger team, fresh from a four days stormy voyage
across the Tasman Sea, would have a chance of bra..ng
the tough material that Wellington, Wairarapa, and
Horowhenui Unions would put against it. Still such a
fall as 23 to 7 is a little more than was expected. Even
the Fall in Genesis doesn’t mention that the apple
knocked out Adam by 16 points. It wa,s a beautiful day
from a Wellingtonian point of view. Fine, the mud not
over the boot-tops, and only a gale-and-a-half raging
straight from one goal to the other. Australia had the
wind behind it the first spell, and when the half-tnne
whistle blew was only one point behind—7 to 8. Irie
teams changed ends, but the wind didn’t. The struggling
Australians disappeared in the mud, and never scored,
while their opponents ran up 15 points.
A turquoise sky, and a breeze that exhilarated
like wine, brought out huge crowds to watch the first-
grade Rugby competition matches in Sydney on hatui-
dav. Play all round was exciting, and sometimes unduly
rough The only change among the leaders was that of
Universi tv and Western Suburbs, the latter, which had
shared third place with Newtown, falling away to fifth,
while the ’Varsity moved up to fourth place. South Syd-
ney which is in the fore-front, fell on Sy-dney District and
smote it hard in the second half. During the first spell
Sydney, although losing, kept its tail up, and reached
the whistle 3 to 8. The first few minutes of the second
spell saw it playing a strenuous game, and then the
team apparently went to pieces, and South Sydney- added
no less than 20 points to the score, while Sydney failed to
break the ice. The final result was 28 to 3. Western
Suburbs played excellent football, but the Glebe crowd
trampled through by sheer weight, and won a fast,
brilliant game by 14 to 7. In its match against the
plucky Eastern Suburbs team University had all the luck,
but, although the score was 10 to 5, it was a well-con-
tested game, with nothing but the figures one-sided about
it. North Sydney went down before Newtown in a match
that was far from brilliant by 3 to 10.
* * * *
Under “Soccer ” rules Pyrmont is still in front
with 20 points. Rozelle has, through its defeat by Bal-
main on Saturday, slipped back to share second place
with Glebe—lB points each. Far behind Ultimo toils
third with 13 points, and Balmain has 12. A fast and
unusually rough game between Ultimo and Glebe on
Saturday ended in a draw with one goal each. Balmain’s
unexpected defeat of Rozelle was by three to two, which,
as the philosophic ape said in his own language when he
pulled the trigger with his foot and blew his whiskers off,
was a pretty- close shave. The most serious discrepancy
was that between Pyrmont and South Sydney, South
going under by four
Saturday saw the finish of the first round of
Victorian League football, leaving the clubs much in the
same position as before. Collingwood leads with 12 vic-
tories in 14 games, Fitzroy follows with 10J, then Carlton
with 9, Essendon with 7, South with 6J—the rest don’t
count. The three ensuing Saturdays the odd numbers
play each other, and the even ditto; then the highest
four battle in semi-finals and final. ’Wood went down to
Essendon on Saturday by 53 points to 66. South’s battle
with ’Roy was the most exciting match of the season. It
started a trifle roughly, but a plentiful allowance of penalty
kicks cooled the ardor of too-robust players. Thereafter
South’s heavier men piled up a threequarter-time score of
7 goals 7 behinds to ’Roy’s 4 goals 7 behinds. The wind was
across the ground, and ’Roy’s chances looked hopeless.
But its lighter and better-trained men outlasted their
opponents” and, struggling round South’s posts, they
potted three goals in succession in five minutes, and the
game was a tie. Then they notched a behind, but within
cooee of the bell ringing, South’s rover “ marked ” 20 yards
straight in front of ’Roy’s goal. He “ placed ” carefully
and kicked—just going the wrong side of the post
by a hand’s breadth—and the game ended in the only
draw of the season. That bad goal shot means that,
instead of playing ’Roy, Geelong and St. Kilda in the
second round, South will now have to tackle ’Wood,
Carlton, and Melbourne, all a shade tougher customers.
It is up to somebpdy to explain why South, making a
draw with the second best league team, should have gone
down by 39 points to 41 to St. Kilda, the worst of the lot,
two Saturdays previously. Last week the same St. Kilda
18 could only score a miserable 23 against Carlton’s 73, so
it could hardly have been the Saint’s good play that caused
the debacle. The 10 Association clubs still meander
gradually towards their semi-finals, which seem certain to
be fought among North, West, Williamstown and Rich-,
mond, though the reversals of form that pervade things:
just now may upset anyone’s calculations.
The public school football premiership of Vic-
toria was decided on St. Kilda ground last Saturday by
the match between Melbourne Grammar School and Wes-
ley College. Former won by 10 goals 6 behinds to 3 goals
7 behinds. The play was irregular and of poor class ; any!
of the better State school teams, though lighter and
smaller, would have beaten Wesley, and perhaps its rival as
well. The match was chiefly interesting by reason of an
unseemly riot at half-time and another at the conclusion.
No sooner had the players retired to the dressing-room
than mobs of well-dressed young larrikins mostly
scholars of the two institutions —swarmed on to,
the playing ground and raised pandemonium. Their
chief object seemed to be to capture the colors'
and caps of their opponents, and incidentally kick
the shins and blacken the eyes of all and sundry belonging,
to the rival school. Eight constables, who had been put
on in anticipation of ,a ruction, were hopelessly out-
numbered, and the argument just had to die away of
itself. Little real damage was done, but the behavior of
these supposedly educated, cultivated lads contrasts
most unfavorably with that of the allegedly mannerless
little nippers who pick up a “godless education” at the
State schools.
* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union very wisely
passed a long sentence on that peppery player who;
recently plugged the referee! If the offender is still as
keen as ever on Rugby.at the end of ten years, he will be
at liberty to indulge his fancy. The people who control,
football have stronger backs than the crowd that imagines
it rules the cyclists. ,
* * * *
Football in S.A. is booming again, and specta-
tors now and again get more’than their money’s worth in.
the way of wrestling bouts and scraps. The Adelaide!
Oval match between N. Adelaide and W. Torrens resem-
bled a Bear and Monkev skirmish more than a football
match. In the last quarter the grand crisis began, when
two very angry players got together. Before the umpire
could collect wind enough to breathe through his whistle
most of the field joiried in, and the arena was a mass of
struggling, blaspheming footballer, policeman, and small
b °y. *
* » * *
Collingwood football team has done something
to show Victorian superiority to S.A. under Australian
rules, by visiting Adelaide and knocking out (by a com-
fortable margin) two of the leading - local clubs. And the
week between the two games included a visit to Broken
Hill, where the hard grounds often knock a visiting
team’s feet right out. Several of the ’Woods were disabled
by the time they got back to Adelaide, but the remainder
were equal to ail requirements. #
The averages of the five test matches show one
player on each side at the head of both batting and
1 owling lists—Jackson for England and Duff for Australia.
The results work out disastrously for the Australians, the
one gleam of distinction being that Duff’s 146 was the
highest individual score in the series, beating Jackson’s
144, though the English skipper was not out. Trumper
held the unexpected position of tenth on the batting list,
and was actually- beaten by Cotter. Another unexpected
result was that Noble only held seventh place on the
batting list, and was last of all on the bowling record.
* * * *
When one reads the English cricket news—this
match interrupted by rain, that match abandoned on
account of the rain, and the other one “resulting in a
draw” —it seems absurd to maintain cricket as the
national game. Originally a one-day-, or one-afternoon,
game, it has developed into a three days battle, subject
to the eccentric control of the weather. No wonder that
English professional players are mostly addicted to beer.
Playing in the sunshine, or wasting time whilst the rain
falls, is very dry work.
* * * *
Australia’s champicn amateur sculler, Tasmanian
Tom Bourke, last week received a cabled offer of £lOO
exes, from the New Westnvr.ster (Canada)- Exposition
people as an inducement to compete in the world’s ama-
teur sculling event there in September. Bourke declined
the offer on account of an intention to try for the
Diamond Sculls at Henley (England) next year. As
Bourke rather easily “downed” ex-champion “Joe”
Daly, formerly reckoned our speediest “’rigger’’-shifter,
experts hope that Bui! will be lamenting the loss of two
valued pieces of wood in the near future. Australia
wants something to make up for those “ ashes.”
* * *
The feasting of champion “Jim” Stanbury is
rapidly- restoring the circumference which it took seven
months to reduce to racing trim, and such swelling up of
a champion athlete doesn’t point to continued success.
Stated that Stanbury is likely to put his winnings into a
pub. and retire from the pastime altogether—bestowing
the just-won title upon a “ young unknown ” oarsman.
At any rate, there’s a big likelihood of Towns challenging
Stanbury shortly for the title, the recently defeated
champion being satisfied that he spoilt his chances by
under-rating Stanbury and failing to take his training
seriously.
* * * *
Extraordinary public interest was manifested in
the Wallace-Continental road race for cycles from
Bathurst to Sy-dhey. At every town along the road
excited crowds cheered the competitors on, while 12,000
people roared congratulations to the winners at Ashfield.
Of the 75 acceptors, 61 started. Victoria, Queensland
and Maoriland were represented, the last by the mighty
6ft. R. Arnst, who, with Larcombe of Goulburn, was on
scratch. While he lasted, Arnst put’Up a tremendous
effort, hurling himself at full speed along a road with
which he was not acquainted, till turning a corner near
Bowenfels, he went clean over a stump or a log-, described
two complete somersaults in the air, and injured his head
so as to require many stitches. This wrecked any chance
he might have had of winning- the race. The limit men
were Robinson of Cooma and A. M. Sommerville. For
over 80 miles Sommerville led, unpaced and alone.
Then M‘Mali on and Carton headed him. Carton
punctured, and M‘Muhon rushed on alone, with
Sommerville close behind. Somewhere between
Penrith and Ashfield, Allsop, of Baulkham Hills,
took second place, and Sommerville, exhausted by his .
long, unpaced ride, fell back third. In this order they
finished. M‘Mahpn’s time was 7hr. 38|min., while the
fastest rider, G. H. Horder, got over it in 7hr. 23min.
The distance is given as 127 miles. When C. S. Orr put
up the record for the Bathurst-Sydney race in March,
1905, he took lOhr. 48min., and is credited with having
done 145 miles. Ashfield is five miles from Sydney, so
presumably Orr and the present crowd of wheelmen tra-
velled by different roads. The race is to be an annual
fixture.
* * * *
J. M‘Mahon, winner of the Wallace-Continental
road race, Bathurst bo Ashfield, was born at the romanti-
cally-named LochinVar, in the Maitland district of N.S.W.,
is 25 years of age, and has been a cyclist only two y-ears.
He is something of a wonder, for when he appeared at the
Summer Nights Amusements’ November carnival he raced
on a banked track for the first time, and took £l2B in
prize money. This was his first big road race.
* * * *
Allsop, the cyclist who ran second in the
Bathurst-Sydney road race, had hard luck. The week
previous he had got over the course in 7hr. 2min., but he
developed~stomach trouble the day before the race, and it
was against medical advice that he started at all. For the
first 50 miles he was in a bad fix. Then he began to recover,
and in the last stage came with an almighty rush, which,
had the race been a little longer, might have brought,him
in first.
* * *
This year the great Dunlop motor reliability
test will be held from Melbourne to Sydney, from
November 14 to 18. The test is to be an annual affair,
and will, unless a new Pharaoh arises, be usually run off
in November. The course is divided into five stages ;on
each a competitor may earn 500 marks, with an additional
500 for a non-stop over hilly- country, including the Razor-
back mountain between Goulburn and Sydney. On the
infamous Razorback the grade runs up to 1 in 6, which is
the sort of thing to break the heart of any motor not in
the very pink of condition. Injuries to ty-res will not
count as delay-s in a non-stop run, the object being to
find out the most suitable type of engine and car for the
Australian roads. Tyres will be tested by- the journey- as
a whole. The Dunlop Co. is going to extraordinary
trouble to make the test a success. Dangerous places in
the road will be indicated by red discs placed about 25yd.
away. Although the test is not a race, a fair touring
speed has to be maintained, but anything like scorching
will lose marks. Already the hum of preparation is loud
in the land, and quite a number of cars (which ought to
be made locally) are being imported to try and carry off
the valuable Dunlop Cup, and the gold medals, and other
prizes. There is a section for motor-cycles as there wes
last year, when only three machines got over the journey.
Experiments have proved that, properly treated, a
motor-cy-cle can go anywhere a motor-car can, but it has
to be handled with more tact.
* * * *
The new Dunlop inter-club shield, which is
understood to be an exquisite creation, was, contrary-to
expectations, won, on Saturday’s final, by- Enfield Club,
which defeated last year’s conqueror, Balmain, without
much difficulty-. Betts and Maxwell, of Enfield, were
first and second. Power and Rodrick, of Balmain, filled
third and fourth places, with Nicholson and Gannon, of
Enfield, fifth and sixth, and Lawson and Tay-lor, of the
suburb of rotting Wharves, at the tail-end. Each of the
four Enfielders wins a gold medal, and the club calls itself
premier arid holds the Dunlop shield for the next 12
months. If Enfield wins again next year, the shield
becomes the property of the club. Only Heaven and the
accountant, who is most likely a Scotchman, know what
it costs the big Dunlop Co. every year for prizes, medals,
shields, goblets and miscellaneous silverware. Hardly a
week passes but one reads that someone has won the
Dunlop whatyoumaycallit, or thingamy, or whatisit.
Entries for the Gortlburn-Sydney road race, which eventu-
ates September 16th, closed yesterday (Wednesday); At
the present time, Dunlop people are going over the course
per motor, making all the necessary arrangements for the
smooth working of the contest. Six wheelers are coming
from Maoriland, and a couple of Westralians, and quite
a squad of Victorians are expected.
* * * *
George Farley, the Australian cycling cham-
pion, has been holding his end of the log up fairly well :n
Europe at time of writing. He had been pitted against
Rutt and Kramer—the latter that Yankee flier of whom
it is said Major Taylor was afraid—in three heats. In the
first heat Kramer beat him by only a length ; in the
second, Farley was within half a wheel of the American,
but in the third Kramer won with comparative ease,
although the distance between them was said to be only
a length. Farley is riding his Australian-made machine,
and it has attracted much attention in both Paris and
Antwerp, where the people understood, from the yells of
the Stinking Fish party, that Australians were a black
race who could make nothing for themselves. When
Farley arrived in Paris he was met by the man who had
engaged bi> i, and, after an ice-cream, the Frenchman
conducted him to a hash-tower. Farley- finds that the
food is greasy. The only difference between that of
Antwerp, in the north, and Genoa, in the south, is that
it is more greasy in the north and not quite so greasy at
the south.
• * * *
The international motor-cycle race, known as
“ the Little Gordon Bennett Race - ',” was run recently over
a 33-mile circuit in the Dourdon district (France). The
total distance was 165 miles, and as machines were not to
exceed 1101 b. weight there were thrills about the busi-
ness. France,'Austria, England and Germany competed,
being represented by three riders each. The winner
turned up in V. Wondrich, an Austrian, who got over the
distance in 3hr. smin. 15sec., or an average of 53 miles
and a fraction per hour. The light machines staggered
at the terrific speed, and the riders expected them to fly
to pieces any moment. The whole of the headlong jour-
ney two Frenchmen hung to the Austrian, till one of their
machines broke down, when the breathless Gaul promptly
mounted another and flew off in pursuit. After 50 miles
he was again close up to Wondrich, but could not pass
him. At the end he was disqualified for changing his
wheel. The English team was outed by tyre and other
troubles, and only- the winner and the two Frenchmen
saw out the whole journey-. One Englishman, Collier,
got round four times, and then blew up, or something.
The winning machine was a twin-cylinder, belt-driven
Laurin-Clement.
* * « *
American cyclist Ivor Lawson announces that he
will push his jigger in Australia this season. He arrives
in September, so that none of the crumbs shall be lost
owing to negligence.
Maoriland test race to select a team for the
Goulburn-Sydney and Warrnamb'ool-Melbourne road-races
produced a world’s record 0f’275 entries. In Canterbury
the peculiar formation of the Plains has stimulated the
use of the bike to an astounding extent, and there are
probably more bikes in proportion to population between
Waipara and Parawa rivers than anywhere else on earth.
**■ * *
Saturday’s round of lacrosse in Sydney saw
Marrickville and North Sydney put up a whirling conflict
at Redfern, which resulted in North Sydney being beaten
by six goals to four. At BurwoCd the local club curled
up before the ohslaught of Balmain, the men from the
ragged suburb winning- by seven to nil.
There was some remarkable pistol shooting by
Jack Hamilton at Queensland Rifle Association’s meeting-
last week. Firing with the ..regulation revolver at 20yd.,
Hamilton scored the possible 42, thus beating the
score of 41 by Woodland, of 11.M.5. Euryalus. Hamilton
is a fine specimen of the native-born Aust: lian. ■ As
well as being a dead shot, he is the handiest of aan with
his fists, and was cock of the walk at more ..an one gold
rush. For many years he was in ; Queensland Legislature,
and even that experience does not seem to have put his eye
out. Yet at the time when Hamilton helped to make the
laws, many a politician couldn’t aim straight enough to
hit the refreshment-room door with his own body-.
“J. A.C.” : Be the poker machine swindle. The
wily exploiter, not content with; having ridiculously long
odds in his favor, makes extra sure by abstracting certain
cards, making fours and straights next to impossible. Not
long ago the committee of a sporting club decided to have
a poker machine on its bar, and a man came to fix it up.
Said he : “How many cards do you want taken out?”
“What do you mean? We want none out! Put them
all in !” “Ah, well,” replied the manipulator, more in
sorrow than in anger, “ you’re very foolish !” I know a
man who was making'from 30s. to £2 a day with one of
those machines when the poker craze was more furious
than it is now, and if his thrippence-in-the-slot marauder
were to be examined the result would be a revelation.
* * * *
M.L. sprinter Machine Gun’s win of Tramway
Handicap (6fur.) at Tatts. Randwick meeting (Saturday)
amply endorsed his Maoriland form. Carrying top load
(10.6), he came from second last (When two furlongs had
been traversed) and landed the prize and bets at 5 to 2
against from Isos, with Picturesque third, in the very fast
time of 1.14. Subsequent statement by starter that
Machine Gun had such a bad time of it in the middle
of the field at the start that Hewitt would have
been unseated but for his great skill, renders the win
still more impressive. Nag’s weight in coming- Epsoin
Handicap (one mile) is 9.12. Machine Gun’s ability to
stay a mile is doubted by some, who have probably for-
gotten that he won Great Easter Handicap (7fur.) well at
Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey Club’s last autumn meeting
with 10.4 up.
-* * * *
Sydney Noses are still at outs with local sub-
urban racing clubs, and though they (the Noses) profess
to be as firm as ever, there are signs of knee-bending-.
Advent of a “ mediator ” and a “proposal” were hailed
with joy, and the proposal was eagerly closed with, but
it subsequently transpired that neither mediator nor pro-
posal had been properly authorised by the other side.
Later, 100 Noses, in meeting assembled, discussed
the situation, and talked of testing the legality
of exacting registration fees, &e. Some counselled
acceptance of the “slightest concession, as there
were six new books now, and there would be 20
before long.” One speaker said, with consider-
able feeling, that “it was galling to see traitors
filling their pockets with money while loyal men looked
on,” and dozens of nodding heads evidenced that a sympa-
thetic chord had been struck. Meanwhile, backers of
horses are, to a man, with the clubs, and bets are being
made that if Mo. doesn’t back down quickly he will be
badlv left.
* * * *
Beilis had almost miraculous luck in V.R.O.
Grand National ’Chase. Jockey Regan tells how, when
Equity fell, his horse was right behind, but seeing Equity
spreadeagled on the ground, Beilis, by an extraordinary
muscular effort, swerved in mid-air, and dodged. Then
Regan lost bis balance, and would have fallen but for the
rowel catching and giving- him purchase to recover his
seat. It is also said that Beilis struck Equity as the
latter was rising, and the injury that resulted ended
Equity’s career.
A * * te
W. P. Crick waved his arms wildly, t’other
day in Pari ament, and stated that when he was in the
Cabinet he shut up the Sydney betting shops. But that
was only for a short time. The “shops” were soon
flourishing more mightily than ever. Still, it showed
that closure was possible if there was any real desire on
the part of the Government to carry out the law.
* * * *
During past year, A.J.C.’s income totalled
£58,039 7s. Bd., and expenditure £57,313 ss. 5d., leaving
£726 2s. 3d. to add to accumulated funds, now verging on
£37,000. Money and property to the good represent
£44,000. Feeling of annual general meeting last week
was decidedly against the “Federal Derby” idea
suggested by V.R.O. chairman Miller.
* * * *
Marvel Loch’s time (1.52 g) for Rawson Stakes
(Ini. If.), Saturday, was record time. Prior best figures
were Fitz Grafton’s 1.54}, made at V.T.C.’s last Autumn
meet.
* * * *
“ Ancient Reprobate ” writes : “As far as I can
remember, Tatt’s sweep prizes have gone to policemen
more than to, any other section of the community. Pre-
sumably, when they pocketed the prizes, they were under
the impression that they were , discouraging public
gambling and maintaining the law in an indirect manner.
It was an Adelaide ‘ copper’ that drew York in the Ade-
laide G.N. Steeple, and offered the nag’s owner half of
any one of the first three prizes he could carry off. lie
got away with the first.”
» * * *
The Tote v. Moses investigation discloses that
had Adelaide Grand National Hurdles gone to History
his backers would have drawn £240 3s. for each £l, and if
he had finished second their share would have been £BO
Is. Backers would have received .£lO5, £122 10s., and
£193 12s. respectively had Esther, Lady Sarsfield, or Bom-
bastes scored. Never has Isaac Noses in his most careless
moments been known to lay anything like 200 to 1 against
the rankest outsider in any race.
* * * *
The Jack Thompson-Dan Hiam scrap at Sydney
National Sporting Club should be a world’s record for
frequent and ineffective punching on the jaw. Both men
were big and strong enough to hit an all-out blow, but
apparently it is neither weight nor strength that really
does the damage. The real secret is the timing, of the
delivery, which accounts for a little batsman lifting the
ball farther by a slight tap than a giant may bang it
when he smites like Hercules. In the end, after much
vain hammering and banging, a light chip on the chin
sent Hiam down in the 16th round, and he had only been
on his feet again a few seconds when Thompson’s right,
swung at a venture at long range, just barely reached the
point of the chin again. This time Hiam failed to rise
within the ten seconds. It was a most accidental-look-
ing fight.
* * * t
Albert Murphy, bruiser, of Auckland (M.L.),
came to a sudden finish at the hands of Sydney light-
weight “ Robbo,” at the Gaiety Hall, Saturday night. It
was a brief contest, lasting less than two rounds, and,
considering the limited time at his disposal, Mr. Robbo
succeeded in putting a beautiful head on Mr. Murphy.
For prompt, artistic disfigurement, it would take a lot of
beating. Twice in the first three minutes the floor
bounded up and hit Mr. Murphy, and in the second round
Robbo showered blows, as George Reid showers promises,
on Murphy’s body. Then, when Murphy tried to protect
his equatorial regions, Robbo’s fist caught him on the jaw,
and Auckland’s pet was a dead bird and horizontal.
Poisoned Blood.
FACE COVERED WITH SORES. CURED BY DR.
MORSE'S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
What can be more embarrassing or humiliating
than to have one’s face covered with sores ? Some-
times pimples, sometimes boils, both due to an
improper condition of the blood, which bepomes
so foul that
it bursts
through the
skin. The
experience of
Mr. . Arthur
I. Fraser is-a
st rikingly
bad case
cured by
Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root
Pills after all
else had
failed. H e
writes:—-
“About
seven months
ago whilst
playing foot-
ballinGolden
Square, Ben-
digo, I was
suddenly
taken ill with
a breaking-
out all over
my body,
which caused me to be confined to my bed. My
face became pale and covered with small blotches.
Before going to my bed I went to see a local
chemist in Bendigo, and showed him the state I
was in, and asked if he could do anything for me.
He said -he could not; I was in such a state, my
blood being very much out of order. He said the
best thing I could do was to go to the hospital, but
I thought I would see a doctor first. He gave me
medicine, but I received no benefit from it. ■ See-
ing the advertisement of your Indian Root Pills,
I thought I would give them atrial, and I am very
pleased to bo able to say that after taking a few
doses of your pills I felt relief. I kept on until
I had used several .bottles, and now I am the
picture of health, my skin being quite clear, and
not a sign of the unpleasant breaking-out left.
I honestly recommend Dr. Morse's Indian Root
Pills as a perfect cure to anyone suffering as I have
done.”*


lUKW
EClli
'‘•i/
jtes
Finest EAST Indian Tobacco is the Most
Costly in the We ld.
,1 n < ;? Va ' nt , to impress this upon you. The finest EAiT Indian is now more costly than the finest Havana. We
renen? ‘I 11 * 8 ? sserfcl ° n u,, e f was strictly true. The above fact is not generally known, as it is only in
Havana 3 '^S 'l°hT °£‘T fine ( W Uty been g ,wn in the EAST Indies ; so most smokers look upon
Finest EAST ini™ w , e assar k> as toba , cco experts, and can prove it up to the hilt, that this is not so.
ciffars “ Tobacco—also the most costly. Ninety per cent, of the imported Havana
cigars would hate* no r “m 1S f~n le to I bac , co °/. w . hlch the >' al 'e made being really only fit 1:■ the pipe ; and such
superiority of E AST t v a ’ only , f ° r . the ! r P ast reputation. Continental countrii < have recognised the
ciAr smoked Q E t . AST ,: lndian ’ Tobacco, and it is only a question of time when England will follow suit. Old Havana
cigar smokers are astounded on smoking their first Marsuma.
You have never experienced to perfection the
strange indescribable delights of smoking unless
you nave smoked a “MARSUMA. r
SOLE -A-G-ZEUsTTS ;
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERGILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
Mr. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. CORNELL & CO., Adelaide, S,A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Qreymouth, N.Z.
SEE THAT
PHONOGRAPH?
IT'S AN
EDISON
. Edison’s Phonographs are the Best
in the World.
BUY ONE BY MAIL.
Simply send for our Catalogues, and
we’ll undertake to save you money on
both Phonographs and Records.
20,000 RECORDS
to select from. . .
FILL THIS FORM IN, and we’ll send you
our Catalogues.
Ncisns ...
Address
OSBORN & JORDAN, Ltd.,
Importers of Phonographs
and Records, . . .
393 Goorge St., Sydney.
Exhibition of Australian Manufactures A Products.
UNDER VICE-REGAL PATRONAGE.
Early application for Space must be made to the Organising Secretary -
General Secretary: M. A. MARTIN.
Telephone 1499.
a. McGuire,
134 Pitt Street.
U.. 1 JIIIU ] I
pi|M
n I ill i in
ep)B3i
t=nsm.
i'njcm.uEn
txrg t i r ,ij
OIPI
iH&BS
S»OI
LuTgxiruin
'I j'OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,” “a®
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS.
I SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
tar- Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a.penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
A pitiable sight was Paul Walker Fraser
being carried into a Melbourne court to give evi-
dence in bis own divorce case. He deposed that
his wife stabbed him in bed, threatened him with
loaded firearms, threw a carpenter’s chisel at him,
hurled a pot of paint in his face, and finally shet
him thiough the head, leaving him a hopeless
she^fcve him 6 ° f h Ti lettc >'4roduced insert
to have been a She would appear
the Frlsers were bnflH 0 " ■ W c oman - The h °uses
S St - Kilda at tlie
? Sf ? ’ ir mP i^ r f h u enames “Eitak” and
it trinsn'ires was •< KjUi°* , v °l a tile Katie, who,
it transpires, was a ballet girl before her marriage!
J YeryOldVatted.
Liqueur Whisky.
Distilled&Bottied by
t/c^U
Kilmarnock .Scotland
>Q\\ale%
W D* BAGSHAWS 'V
K VITAL FORCE TABLETS /
THE BEST
NERVE
TONIC
IN THE
WORLD
/
-*
W
\>
EASY TO
CARRY
EASY TO TAKE
of 50 TABLETS.
ATALLCHEMISTS.
OR POSTPAID FROM
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG C? IP,SYDNEY.
= Isn’t it =
Astonishing ?
that anyone will continue to
use ordinary blacking when
H authaway’s
Crozine
Blacking
will give ten times better results ? Crozine
is a liquid preparation that is easy to use,
gives an instant polish of such brilliance
that it stops there, and takes the shine out
of all others. It makes boots look absolutely
their best. They are stamped with dis-
tinciion the moment it is applied. When
you have once seen the shine of Crozine
you never forget it. Its blackness is like the
raven’s wing. It shimmers, it dazzles, it
delights.
Can be had from all Boot Stores.
See that you get Hauthaway's.
Imparts comfort and wearing qualities.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress
Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
MlmS
I
dC R.m$
R u ,
or
TA
DO^
0^
rx
U DUNLOP *1
RUBBER GOODS
Comprising Hose (every description). Engineering.
Mining and Sporting Requisites, Cycle. Motor and
Motor Hus Tyres Rubber and Balata Belting. Waterproof
Clothing, Rubber Heels and Soles—in (act every descrip-
tion of Rubber Goods, are now manufactured at our
l«o Dunlop Mills by Australian Labour with Australian
Capital These Goods are equal in material and
workmanship to the best imported article, and have
the important advantage of being fresh and free from
perish, which means longer use, aud consequently reduced'
cost. Our Goods are good, and are worthy of your
consideration when purchasing ; by so doing, you will
not only obtain a satisfactory article, but you will be
supporting an Australian ludustry that employs 800 bands,
and spends in wages alone in Australasia every
year. Again, by purchasing Dunlop Goods you keep your
money in Australasia, and thus indirectly benefit yourself
Think of this when next purchasing Rubber Goods.
The Dunlcp Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AU- STATES
PEgrat W
)>
rt'.r’
NT
rs
L'T.'S
gp/vw
N!'.
r IG r °^
j2D
•* «
tf* 1
oP
PU^ L $
108 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
268*270 Adelaide.stre3t Brisbane.
> 128 Lichfield-street, Christchurch, N. 2.
148-150 Clarence-street, Sydney.
617 Hay-street, Perth.
Consider the great difference between the English
and the Australian “commercial man”! Lord
Russell’s original Secret Commissions Bill was
the outcome, of investigations made by the London
Chambers of Commerce, which assisted him in every
way to put a stop to the tricks and dodges of dis-
honest and unfair traders. Now similar Bills are
before the Australian Parliament and the Vic-
torian Assembly ; but the Australian Chambers of
Commerce, instead of assisting, are doing their
utmost to hamper the Ministers in charge, and to
get the Bills so amended as to be null and void.
And they are meeting with some success in their
defence of fraud. Vic. Minister Mackey has told
an Employers’ Federation deputation that though
“hundreds of commissions which passat present
mMelbourneareillegal, and though Lord Russell’s
Act makes everyone of such transactions criminal,
he had. decided to make the concession they asked
for.” If his Bill passes Vic. Parliament with the
concessions asked for, Mackey might just as well
drop it into the stove at once. It is a horrible
advertisement for Melbourne that a body which
represents a huge proportion of its wealthy busi-
ness men should send forth a deputation to plead
for a continuance of a system which England finds
Vo dirty and dishonest to be further tolerated.
What kind of effect do these deputationists think
this will have on “the investment of foreign capi-
tal,” and such-like tin gods of Toryism ? Who is
going to send foreign capital for investment in a
country where it is so difficult to distinguish
between the business man who robs you with
secret commissions and ?w..e Bit l Sykes who robs
you with a crowbar ?
Jamieson, one of the Tory members of S.A.
Assembly, is a man with an inspiration. He
thinks the pay of Ministers should be reduced to
£5OO a year to diminish the “scramble for office.”
Possibly if it were suggested that the pay of the
chief managers of big banks sho d l be reduced to
£250 a year to diminish the scramble for bank
managerships, Jamieson would dimly perceive
something foolish about the idea. A Premier, if
he is to be a successful Premier, requires a larger
and more varied knowledge than the great lm.uk
potentate who receives £3OOO per annum, and he
should be paid for the knowledge that is expected
of him. Then he should be paid extra on account
of the precariousness of his position. If Upper
Houses were abolished, Lower Houses reduced in
numbers, attendance made compulsory, pay
doubled, and a rigid law passed to prevent
a member’s pay being cadged by constituents,
it would be something like reform. A still
greater reform would be to abolish the State
Legislatures', abolish the Federal Senate, and run
the country with an extensive Local Government
system and a House of Representatives in which
the private member’s salary was £l2OO a year, with
Ministerial salaries to correspond. And there
also it would be necessary to pass ah Act making
it criminal for constituents to cadge, borrow, or
solicit subscriptions from members,’ or for mem-
bers to give subscriptions. A country may pay
for intellect arid not get it—that is an accident.
But :t country that only pays for mediocrity, or
less than mediocrity, almost always gets it.
S. Australia paid £lOOO a year and got Jenkins.
If it had paid £5OO a year it might have got half a
Jenkins,
■ ♦
Captain John D. Switzer died recently at
Brisbane, aged 81. His career included soriie
naval and military adventures, and some unprofit-
able commercial adventures. With a knowledge
of astronomy and mathematics, gained from IJs
uncle who had charge of the Dublin Observatory,
he joined the navy, and took part in suppressing
the slave trade on the West African coast. Later on
he fought in the Kaffir war. He was also in the
coastguard service. Queensland saw him first ii>
1862, when he plunged into the sugar industry t'tk
Bundaberg in a big way, and like many others ;
wasted a fortune. A dabble at the fishing in-
dustry met with similar ill-luck. Then he joined
the Marine Board as compass adjuster, and taught
navigation and mathematics.
“ Colonel ” Hoskins, of the Salvation
Army, in a speech on the gambling curse :
Two boys bet a shilling' that one would amputate more
of his fingers than the other. One lad had cut off two
members, and the other was about to remove his second
when they were stopped.
The Bulletin has doubts if that comes undAr
the head of gambling. Any boy with the gambling
instinct really developed would have hustled
round till he got at least a half-crown bet before
starting to cut off his feet or his head, or any other
important part of himself.
Renegade Joe Cook is of opinion —re tise
Union Label—that “neither trades unionists
nor any other freemen should be coerced to> pur-
chase inferior goods, no matter by what, weans
they are produced.” The “ coercion,” course,
is Cook’s invention ; the Bill simply proposes that
trades union goods may be labelled, and then
they can be bought or let alone. But it is note-
worthy that Cook has now got so far advanced in
his career as a renegade that he assumes that
trades union goods, made by white men working
under fair conditions, must, necessarily be “in-
ferior.”


9P
...
, -Vv
'■
.
/
J:'
v
'waJtaMWm*. • ■. ■ "’< *
m
7T, !
\
m *
mm l i
... ... .
***s&iss
tm
* : .
- v " ?'.. •».-. %
,
®?p^
•'-■'!
■ : ..."
m
. * tf, * 4 4v# SP§ “> I *
. :. .. * .: <' s»
Wf:
.
im
7>‘ •
■
fsi
ran
|g« ;pf§.
\ • * ■ .
a, \ .
k \ ' 'i.
m:
&W
»*
-
Conquers Rheumatism, Gout, Gouty Skin Diseases, Neuralgia, Pains in the Face, Sciatica, Lumbago,
q Indigestion, Headache, Biliousness, Jaundice, Constipation.
2s. 6d. PER BOTTLE, 3s. POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
SEND FOR PAMPHLET AND TESTIMONIALS TO
LASSETTER’S, UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS, SYDNEY,


jf Office Economy—A Sl99esfion.
Several of the largest offices In London
have equipped their entire staff with
*SWAN Fountain Pens,
removing alt Desk Encumbrances, such as
Inkpots, Holders, Racks, Extra Nibs, etc.
No—ssiere is no oilier Fosiißfain pesa “ just os fool”
old by all Stationers,
Catalogue post free.
93, Cheapside,
London, E.C.
Jewellers, and Importers.
SWAN" PENS are fully guaranteed.
0
NICOLE UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records
will fit any and every disc talking machine. ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
Two Special Instruments,
“ The Colonial ” and
“The New Standard."
ipr- ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G. KING, sp'oSf’e"*’ 316 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
MAKES tin SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
0
&
Bt
rf
\>
0
&
fit 3
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Agents—Elliott tiros.,
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
THE PEAPLY
TRUSS
It IS deadly, too. Those who have been cured by
DR. J. A. SHERMAN'S METHOD OF CURING
RUPTURE say so in their letters, which YOU can
read. The Sherman Method is the only permanent
Rupture Cure in the world—scientific men say so,
medical men say so, the public say so, and you can
read all this for yourself in the two books which I will
send you free for your name and address. No pain.
No trouble. No operations in the Sherman Method
of Curing Rupture.
Send for TWO BOOKS ON RUPTURE—FREE.
HOURS—Daily (Sundays excepted) from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30
EXTRA HOURS—Tuesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9.
12.30 noon.
p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 to
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 Hunter-st., Sydney.
Co-operating Wool & Produce Co., Sydney.
A BONA FIDE PASTORAUISTS’ INSTITUTION.
II The Real Thing
gpr At Last I
TUSSELLS
PURE RICH
CREAM
J
GOLDEN
BUTTERFLY
BRAND a
■ FC&SELL'S ip
* CREAM
Is NOT a Makeshift NOR a Substi-
Itute but PURE Mountain Pasture
CREAM. Guaranteed free from Pre-
servative find put up in Sterilized
Tins. Keeps good IN ANY CLIMATE
FOR MANY MONTHS. On sale ,
almost everywhere, but if any difficulty
in procuring it, apply to special repre-
sentative for the district—
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.,
George Street, Sydney.
BHBKTT
SSHHSWm
Life’s happinesS
CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED by having a supply of Nerve Force and
Vitality in your body—the amount of Natural Electricity it contains.
Take the sap from a tree, what is the result? —It withers! Drain the
Vital Nerve Force from your system—which is the sap of life—what
do you become? —A Miserable, Puny Weakling, unfit alike for toil or
pleasure. You lose all energy and ambition in life ; your face becomes
drawn and bagged; 3'ou get irritable and restless; and you awake
each morning with the same tired feeling; truly a miserable existence.
You must always remain in that condition unless you hstve the amount
of Electricity you have lost replaced, and which must be injected by
means of gentle-flowing currents for a few hours each day. There is
only one appliance on earth to give it to you the in way it should be.
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
Forces the Electricity into every part of the body without shock or the
slightest inconvenience to the wearer. Each day you wear it you feel
yourself getting stronger in every way. ... If you suffer, Write
for our Book , which will show and explain this treatment to you,
and tells you the many ailments it cures, which we cannot do in a
public Advertisement. Many men and women—in every walk of life-
praise it for the great benefits they have received.
Mp. M. N. HAVARD. of Bourke, N.S.W., who suffered
from Nervo-Vital Weakness and Rheumatism, writes:
“Sirs, —I cannot cease praising your marvellous Belt for its wonderful cura-
tive powers ; it is a God-send to Australasia —it was to me at all events. The
benefit it has imparted to my system compels me to acknowledge to the
world its proficiency as a cure for auy complaint. It has undoubtedly saved
me from an untimely grave. No tongue can express sufficient words in its
praise. You are at liberty to use this statement as you wish, and any inform-
ation as to the above will be gladly imparted.”
Si
tom
:: > ■
For further information as to the value of this Great Remedy, we
publish a Grand, 96-Page, Illustrated Book, which deals exhaustively
with the use of Electricity in all Nervous and Functional Disorders.
It contains much Valuable Advice and Information for both men and
women, and should be read by every sufferer. We will send you this
Book FREE and Postage Paid on receipt of a Post-Card or Better.
CALL, If possible, and obtain our FREE ADVICE. If you
cannot call, Write for OUR SPECIAL DIAGNOSIS CHART,
by means of which you can be treated just as well in your
own home as if you visited our Specialist. Hours: 9 till 8.30
the McLaughlin go.,
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 167JZ. Simnston Street, Melbourne
SO WiKtam Street, Perth
54 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford
Henry Joseph Crawford
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls xlrmT abl * Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
AMUSE THE CHILDREN.
AND YOUNG.
MAGIC LANTERNS.
No. 21, with 12 Slides, If inches wide, 4 views on
each, will show a good clear picture, 12/-post
free, anywhere; others, 2/-, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6,
7/6, 30/-, 35/-, 60/- each. '
THESE ARE REAL GOOD VALUE.
STEAM and CLOCKWORK ENGINES, All Prices.
Send for Circular No. B.
J. & A. BOYES, IRONMONGERS,
241 & 243 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
A?
aV
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer fores
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
\\ ounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints. Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
V 4?
S# V


After Most Awful Suffering Ever Ex-
perienced Eight Doctors and
Many Remedies Failed to Do a
Cent’s Worth of Good.
THANKS TO CUTICURA
IT SS ALL OVER NOW
“I was troubled with sore hands, so
sore that when I would put them in
water the pain would nearly set me
crazy, -the skin would peel off and the
flesh get hard and break, with blood
flowing from at least fifty places on each
hand. Words could never tell the suf-
fering I endured for three years. I tried
eight different doctors, but none did me
any good, as my hands were as bad as
when I began. I also tried many reme-
dies, but none of them ever did me one
cent’s worth of good. I was discouraged
and heart-sore. I would feel so bad
mornings, to think I had to go to work
and stand the pain for ten hours, I often
felt like giving up my position. I would
have to wrap every finger tip separately,
so as to try and keep them soft, and then
wear gloves over the rags to keep the
grease from getting on my work. I had
to wear gloves at night; in fact, all the
time. But thanks to Cuticura, that is all
over now. After doctoring for three
years, and spending much money, a single
box of Cuticura Ointment ended all my
sufferings. It’s been two years since I
used a.ny, and I don’t know what sore
hands are now, and never lost a day’s
work while using Cuticura. Thomas
A. Clancy, 310 North Montgomery St.,
Trenton, N. J,”
ONE NIGHT TREATMENT
For Sore Hands and Feet
with Cuticura.
Soak the hands or feet on retiring in
a strong, hot, creamy lather of Cuticura
Soap. Dry and anoint freely with Cuti-
cura Ointment, the great skin cure.
Wear on the hands during the night old,
loose gloves, or bandage the feet lightly
in old, soft cotton or linen.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.j Paris, 5 Rue da
laPaix; Australia, R. Towns A Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Boston, IT. S. A., Sole Props,
oy Send for " The Qreat Skin Book. Mailed Free.
North End; Kalgoorlie, hitherto known as
Devon Consols South Extended, has got to work, and
seems to have a rosy chance of success. Co. is registered
in Perth with a capital of 200,000 shares of ss. each.
Vendors and promoters cut up 150,000 scrip* between
them, as well as £5OOO cash, leaving- £7500 for working
capital. To curtail exes., registered office is on the mine,
and all directors are large shareholders. Mine is in charge
of Harry Fey, who can be relied on to work thing’s con-
scientiously. Co. has a five-head mill • which is to be
doubled, power being g-ot from local Electric Power Co.
.Mine has practical^ 7 been worked out to 80ft., and yielded
good returns over a width of 20ft. in places. W inze below
SOft. is still in good ore, and pay shoot so far proved is
200 ft. » » «
White Feather Main Reefs, Kanowna, is look-
in"-sick. Ore treated during July averaged only Bdwt.,
and month’s crushing showed a loss of £2400. During
June £650 was lost on treating 12dwt. ore. Reefs at
bottom level have petered out to mere stringers of no
value. Further prospecting is being done to the north,
in shallow levels, beyond where the shoot on which co.
was.floated petered out years ago. Results at this point
only yield 1 to 2dwt., which is not hopeful. Looks as if
mine may have to close down before the year is out.
. * * * *
Burbank’s Birthday Gift, Coolgardie, after long
silence, has rejoined producers, but results are unsatis-
factory. In July 1800 tons were treated for 6000 z., with a
loss of £B5O. If' this can’t be improved on, further calls
are certain. Co. is now in 170,000 shares of £l, paid up
to 18s. 6d., leaving a liability of Is. 6d. This amount can
be called up 6d. at a time, at intervals of not less than two
months. It doesn’t seem promising to continue paying
calls into a concern that only treats 7dwt. ore at a dead
loss of Bs. 6d. per ton.
* * * ♦
Westralia Waihi, Davyhurst (W.A.), for the
mompnt looks more hopeful than ever before. The new
reef found by Manager Watt has been more or less proved
by pot holes to range from 15 to 41dwt., and in width
from 24 to 42in. This reef has been traced for a long
distance on the surface, and carries a much longer pay
ishoot than the three or four erratic leaders previously
worked. If this reef can be located at 117 ft. and 282 ft.,
and maintains its values, position of mine will be quite
a tered. July’s.return shows considerable improvement,
and "results in a profit of £450, which vvip-S out loss
incurred in June.
* * » *
Boulder Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, has shown
marked improvement since Manager Klug took it in
hand. Mine is opening up much better than expected,
and is not nearly done with yet. In addition to pushing
on developments for all they are worth, King is to over-
haul treatment plant, and not without reason. Last
year total costs were 465. sd. per toil; of this 255. 3d.
wentfor treatment alone. Nothing whatever was allowed
for depreciation. Klug is to replace the Yankee furnaces
with others of ' Edwards type. Since he took charge
output has gradually increased, last three months’
returns reading 89070 z., 96790 Z., and 10,121-oz.
* * . * *
South Kalgurli, Kalgoorlie, has at last got its
treatment plant going full swing, and result hardly seems
to justify high price of scrip. From treating 5100 tons
of ore worth 365. 3d. there is a profit of 2s. Id. per ton
only, or £550. After directors’ fees and depreciation are
chipped off, the apparent profit will vanish. It is in-
teresting to note that value of ore reserves is given as
10-7dwt., while extraction is B’6dwt., or 80 per cent.
Unless, therefore, costs can be materially reduced, or ex-
traction materially increased, shareholders are not likely
to finger many divs. Mine is well managed by manager
Morgan, and, as- plant is entirely automatic, Costs may
come down when preliminary difficulties are overcome
and men are properly trained to the plant.
* * * "X-
The story went round Ballarat like wild fire
last week that Manager Browne, of the Spring Hill Leads,
Creswlck, had resjgned, owing to the stand his board was
taking over the pegging out of some ground for some one
else near the Spring Hill Leads’ lease. As Browne was
tup countrv on account of ill-health, the story didn’t
fit. Still, it’s quite on the cards that Browne’s resigna-
tion goes in. If fib, it will be well for Browne, as it is bad
enough for him to’ lose health through trying to nurse a
derelict without having to sit in the middle of a bear-
garden to do it.
* * *
New Moon, Bendigo, despite past protests
about the need for a vigorous policy, has let criticism
germinate. Co. has big ore reserves and a big battery,
but instead of using all the stamps for its own ore, has
been doing custom work. Now it is going to re-open the
south shaft and connect it with the main shaft for hauling
quartz. From the south shaft the shallow ground is to
be prospected. But why not review the position further
to see’ if it would not be possible to lay out
the mine in such a way as to double the output? To have
only crushed 271,000 tons since 1892 is nothing to be
proud of in days of progressive mining. As the best stone
has come from sopth of the main shaft, the re-opening of
the south shaft gives scope for enterprise in the direction
suggested.
, * * * *
M'Grath, M.L.A., intends to move in the Vic-
torian Assembly for a return of all gold-mining and
mineral leases held under suspension of labor covenants,
upon the representation of lessees or legal managers of
co.’s tha.t operations are awaiting the advent of British or
over-sea capital, or that negotiations are being made to
get such capital. The return should be interesting. The
number of pot-holes, just about large enough to hold a
drink for a pelican, which are supposed to be waiting the
advent bf about a ton of British capital is said to be
amazing.
* V * * *
The ‘management of the State coal-mines in
Maoriland is being; probed, mainly on the motion of the
miners, who allege that some of those who are supposed
to be giving State ownership a fair trial are more
Interested in making it out a failure than a success. The
gre mostly with regard to the Seddonville mine ;
fiqe other, the Port Elizabeth, isn’t seriously attacked.
■One matter, which a board is now inquiring into, is
whether the principal agent for the sale of Seddonville
coal isn’t principal owner of the township alongside
another colliery, arid therefore more interested in booming
the latter than the. colliery which he is agent for ; also,
whether -other officials are not deeply connected with
private colliery concerns. If half the charges are true,
or half-true, it looks as though good old Private Enter-
prise had'decided to get in early and kill off a dangerous
rival by taking the job of nursing the rival in its infancy.
But Private Enterprise in the shape of the
middleman dealer has done most to rob the public of the
expected'advantages. When Premier Seddon first talked
State coal he also talked State coal depots. As the latter
haven’t transpired, shipments have gone into the dealers
hands in the old way; and they have made their own
price. , * * *
Alfred Clarke— the Clarke and Co.—having
trlven tin a go, is now returning to his old love, the
Colonel North, in the Zeehan district (Tas.). The show
has been crawling along ever since its swaddling clothes
were taken off by nurse George Meudell and papa Clarke.
What was one, papa Clarke, true to instinct, now
determines shall be two. So he has floated off the
two sections next to the payable British-Zeehan
from which Bull draws good divs. Float has 100,000
shares; 33,333 paids go to Colonel North share-
holders, the rest presumably to Alfred Clarke and
his pals,.who provide £2500 cash as. capital, leaving
about £s,ooo to be called up,” as one guileless North
shareholder ecstatically exclaimed. What the deal really
means is that Alfred Clarke’s party get the pull of 66,667
shares for £2500' in a rattling good prospecting show.
Well “ an old horse for a hard road ; ’ and if the British-
Zeehan folk want the ground, as seems not improbable,
Clarke may repeat his Victoria Broken Hill coup. To
have reconstructed the South and North Broken Hill, and
+o finish with this Colonel North pup, is no small record.
* » *
Top-drift sluicing accounts for the lower returns
'from the Pioneer tin mine, Bradshaw’s Creek (Ta,s.).
Average of drift sluiced during past half-year was 2"lllb.
ner cubic yard, but this is sure to increase a little as
lower drifts are reached. But the increase will not be
much, as up to date the average of 1,343,400 cubic yards
treated has been only 2-2891 b. stream tin. Work done by
co, is ft standard to some extent of what ought to be done
at the flriseis Extended owing to similarity of plants;
only Piouger has a big gravitation water-supply, which
helps to keep posts down. To get a ton of 'stream tin at
the Pioneer last year ran away with £39 18s. 7d., against
£2B 7s. sd. in 1903-4. Co. is a prosperous Fatman’s venture,
with a son of old Money Miller as chairman, Gibbs, Bright
and Co. as its business head, and Cecil Ryan as its capable
manager. # # „
The prospect: for the Queensland cotton indus-
try look bright. It was recently estimated that a 15001 b.
per acre crop should give the grower £5 per acre, which
appeared favorable against N.S.W.’s average agricultural
return of £2 Bs. per acre. But some yields at Ipswich are
as high as 23001 b. per acre for the upland variety. Other
returns are equally encouraging in other districts. There
appears to be no doubt that if the Australian Government
gives a bonus the industry will be started on a large prac-
tical basis, and then it should be seen that a high pro-
tective duty is established to start cotton manufactures.
There is a huge market in a country that spends about
£2,000,000 a year on imported cotton goods.
♦ * * *
Mining at Winnecke’s Depot, nee Arltunga,
Central Australia, is still sick. Papers said the new
Coorong battery would start in May ; but plant, being
old, evidently suffers from lapse of memory, and forgets
to go to work for about five days out of every six. The
reported 37ft. of water in water shaft has disappeared;
the management is now endeavoring to find it, for it is
wanted badly. Government of S.A. has £2lOO in this
little venture, and its Inspector of Mines has gone up to
inspect, and incidentally help to discover aforesaid
missing water.
* * * *
“Vigilans” : Stranded whites in the Northern
Territory have to dolly for Chows on the tin-fields to get
passage-money back to civilisation. No whites should! go
to the Territory prospecting unless they are prepared to
pay their way back. No hope of work in Chinaman-
haunted Port Darwin.
* * * *
S. Brisbane : Keep your policy. For instance,
under your policy, if you didn’t pay another cent after
the fifth premium, your society has undertaken to keep
you insured for a full £3OOO for 10 years 2 months.
Another office may do better for you in some respects ;
your own office will do better for you in some others.
Always beware the insurance man who wants you to
throw up a policy F. Just: Well, if you must have qne
mentioned, Victory. But it’s your own funeral if the
gamble fails Prospector: Apparently too late to join
in the Madagascar scramble. The Rand crowd was
handy, and took up everything that looked likely in blocks
with a 2f-mile perimeter Subscriber :No ; don’t think
it ever will pay divs. . *
Bull has been breathing heavily over some of
the results of the Westralian timber combine. In 1902
•Millar’s Karri and Jarrah Co. absorbed a litter of similar
concerns ; and the expenses seem to have been something
extra special. Shareholders in the Jarrah Timber and
Wood-Paving Corporation have been informed during the
last month or two that, after expenses of liquidation are
met and the debentures paid off, 100 of their ordinary
shares carry one share in Millar’s. Holders of 50 shares
get cash—i's. for the lot. They were £1 shares, and in
the timber boom went to a premium.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Van Biene, the ’cellodrama man, has sailed from Perth
for London, after completing a sad 20 weeks tour
of Australasia. Van Biene’s drama, although free from
horrors, was too luridly sensational for the public he
appealed to, but his ’cello playing, as far as it went, was
very effective. Many concert artists who have a better
knowledge of music and a more cultivated technique,
cannot rival Van Biene as producers of heart-stirring
sounds from the big fiddle. The astonishing thing about
his show was its absurdity. He has travelled on “The
Broken Melody” for 20 years or so, and all the time he
might have been acting a similar character, and playing
the same music, in a quite reasonable drama that would
have framed his performance to far greater advantage.
Why is it that dramas written to display the principal
actor or actress as a variety artist are almost invariably
foolish ? Old theatre-goers can recall to mind many cases
of a versatile “ star ” in a ridiculous piece. Joe Emmett,
Minnie Palmer, Carrie Swain, Charles Arnold (as Hans),
and others. Andrew Mack struck something considerably
above the average in “Tom Moore,” which nevertheless
is not bursting with literary merit. By a strange coinci-
dence, poor little “Pete” Hughes, who had acted as
Musgrove’s business manager for the Van Biene Co., died
in Sydney at about the time when the co. broke up. Pete
was the baldest-headed boy in the theatrical business, and
the most universally popular. The world never saw him
out of spirits. He was said to be a quite illiterate man,
and if so he was somewhat of an argument against schol-
astic education, for he contrived to be an entertaining
companion without it.
There are not many chorus girls who can shake an
independent leg in a theatrical manager’s face. But in
Adelaide, the other day, one of them became enraged
when her four-line part was given to another, and
promptly stated her intention of looking for a job under
a manager who could recognise talent when he saw it.
Wm. Parkinson, teacher of singing, whose death at
Brighton (Vic.) is announced, sang in leading operatic
roles in London 30 years ago. For a number of years he
owned the threatre at Preston, Lancashire. His immi-
gration to Australia was occasioned by failing health.
Harry Shine, comedian, has suffered a complete break-
down, and is now in hospital at Adelaide. He had been
the mainstay of Frank M. Clark’s Folly Co. in the steepled
city.
“ Petramos ”: A. G. Spry, the English funny-man
whom Ijenry Rickards is re-introducing to Australia, is
about the only imported star whose business wasn’t done
to death as soon as he left these shores. Nat Clifford can
never sjng “ The Grand Hotel ” with any marked success
in Australian,again, because pretty nearly every amateur
alleged humorist has had ago at it. Spry’s songs were
mostly in the manuscript, and when he wasn’t singing he'
sat on the manuscript, Frank Harwood, a descriptive
singer, brought out-a few months ago by Rickards, made
a hit with a song called “ Looking Glass,” and he also sat
on the manuscript. When in Adelaide he was approached
by a local mimic who wished to include the song in his
repertoire. The amateur says that the descriptive singer
received him warmly, and that his description of Sheol
was the most vivid and accurate thing that any local mimic
ever heard while flying downstairs, and not caring
whether he struck the bottom with his knees or his ear so
long as he got there.
“ Melb.”: Perhaps “ Trelawney of the Wells,” with its
crinolines of ’62, suggested wheeling Time’s bike ever so
much farther back for “ Quality Street,” with its whiffs
of Jane Austen and Fanny Burney. Please observe that
the “ Quality Street ” ladies trot about like Yum Yum at
the other house. A spectacled amphitheatran beside me
remarks to his spectacled lady : “ Barrie is always Senti-
mental Tommy ; alwavs artificial, hardly ever virile.” So
he is. His plays fade off the stage, and yet have a bright
flowering, for there are snaps of genius. Now Barrie and
Pinero in collaboration would motivate. Barrie’s cup-
and-saucer style is not in the same street with “ Caste ”
and “School.” However, lam graciously soothed for
two hours with mental fare like the deliciously thin slices
of bread and butter grandmother used to cut..
An English stage chronicler states that during the run
of a pantomime at Melbourne Royal, “ some years ago,”
the clown (a native of Victoria) took a benefit. He was
drawn across the stage in a triumphal car by “ a magnifi-
cent team” of 24 tom-cats—not the usual pantomime
variety, but genuine tile-walkers, whose protests and loud
cries of “ Ma-ria ” drowned the music of the orchestra.
Goes any old-timer remember the incident, if there ever
was such an incident ? .
A novel form of Australian Industries Exhibition is to
he carried around Victoria, in the first place, by showman
Erskine Scott, the author of the scheme. Manufacturers
are invited to get their works “biographed” in good
going order, and the Exhibition will thus be sheeted home
to the public understanding in a series of living pictures.
Seeing that factories and foundries are serious subjects
for contemplation, a number of “comic” filmshaving
nothing to do with the industrial progress of the Tory-be-
littled country, will be interspersed between the exhibits,
so that even the Stinking Fish party may find entertain-
ment. And the charge for admission is to be Nothing—
the most popular price possible under the circumstances.
This is undoubtedly the best means of advertising local
manufactures that has been suggested. The public, who
pay willingly for a faked-up cinematograph show dealing
with such deplorable matters as the Russo-Jap war or
King Edward’s Coronation mummeries, will get a lot more
benefit from the forthcoming free Exhibition. The Bul-
letin wishes the new Manufacturegraph lots of luck and
no flickering.
“ Melb.” : How very much better “The Mikado has
gone than it did last time, not long- ago ! Then; with ah
the force of the Koval Opera Co., including,i'lo Young as
an impossible lump of Yum-Yum, it was sometimes
wooden, and sometimes like a clammy damp fish laid in
your hand off yesterday’s marble slab. We thought lhe
Mikado’’was done for; but, lo ! it comes again like the
flowers that bloom in the Spring—fresh, radiant, and
delightsome ; all gay, tripping, and rippling. Although
Miss Thorne will never sing up to Miss Castles, I liked-tier
the best. Vernon makes me think of RoSsi, the Italian
Romeo of 50, in the United Slates. Excellent when he
insisted on having a Juliet of 19., Surely we never heard
Pooh Bah sung till Fitts tackled it.
Mel. B. Spurr’s biography is being written by h:s
brother.
“H. Glubb”: The Federal Copyright Bill vastly im-
proves the position of writers, musicians and artists, but
might be made still better by the inclusion of one pro-
vision on the lines of the American copyright law. United
States copyright of a foreign work is obtained only by
production or publication in the U.S. simultaneously with
production or publication in the country of origin, and
the result has been to give a tremendous fillip to native
literature. With a population as small as that of
Australia, it would be impossible that this provision
should be adopted in its entirety, for London managers and
publishers could not be expected, to produce in Australia
every play and book that is now tried <sn the London dog.
But a modification of the American provision might well
be introduced. Another omission that should be rectified
is the lackof any protection to the man who thinks out
stage business. In juggling and acrobatics there are
hundreds of men who can do anything after seeing another
man do it; and, at present, the other man has to suffer by
the depredations of those impostors who see him per-
form, and then get off to another country to live
on the product of his brains. Imitators of Cinquevalli
are simply encumbering the limited area of Europe to-
day. The law should be so framed as to give protection
to the originator of a device whether he is the direct ex-
ponent of it or not. There is, for instance, a New Eng-
land clergyman who cannot waltz without treading on his
partner’s toes, but who has thought out a frenzied revel
which would make the fortune of La Belle Otero or
Madame Darto. A proper copyright law would enable
the meek and lowly shepherd to copyright his idea and let
it out on license to beauteous and agile damsels (more or
less dressed) who are capable of' executing it properly.
Otherwise the existing and proposed law might, as well
grant a musician copyright on his own music only when
tootling it on his own cornet.
“ Melb.” : MaudChetwynd appears with the Strand Co.,
at the. Princess’s, in “ J.P.” The imported co. consists of
only three gentlemen and one lady. Dallas, the comedian,
first made his London mark as the Insect, in “Paul
Jones,” to Monkhouse’s Bouillabaise.
“Den”: Have you ever noticed a stereotyped but
highly popular declaration that' runs through most of
the bellowdramas of the day? For instance; in “The
Night Rats of London,” the unhappy villain says to the
callous adventuress : “ Woman, were it not for the likes
of you there would never be such men as I am,” or words
to that effect, and there is wild approbation from the
gallery. Again, in “ The Face in the Fireplace,” says the
miserable adventuress to the saturnine villain —“If such
men as you never existed there \vould never be women
like me,” and again there is prolonged approbation from
the gods. I suppose it is this tendency to pass on the
responsibility that makes us the -borrowing community
we are.
“ Straubs,” says violinist Heermann, “ is an impression-
ist, and sees the music of an orchestra in vivid and
gorgeous colors. The music of an organ sounds gold to
him. Whilst conducting- on one occasion,, I heard Liszt
correct one of the musicians. ‘ That is not right, he
said ; ‘ you should play that —let me see now —yes, play it
a little more blue.’” Some day, maybe, one of these
greac men will compose and play an immortal green work,
with red stripes, and a white border, and a tassel of blue
music hanging from the centre.
Chefalo, the cyclist who loops the enormous sectional
loop in Wirths’ Circus, lately developed a craze to try
to break his neck off horseback. He has been hurled
through space from almost every dangerous kind of
vehicle that cart be used for trick riding, and when the
motor-car that leaps the chasm, and the bike that loops
had palled, he flogged up his jaded appetite for sensation
by getting across George Wirth’s charger, which has been
specially trained to deposit on the grass everybody but
George. He rode the brute in a procession, and was
dressed as Satan, with red cloak, crimson close-fitting
body-clothes, horns on his head, and electric light stream-
ing from his glazed eyes. The horse d.dn’t know what a
spectacle it had on its back till the procession stopped in
front of a big glass window, and then it saw' what it
was carrying-. There was a terrified snort, and a
devil whirled down the street, with cowboy Captain
M‘Leod in full pursuit 1 With' his' lariat. Devil and
horse were finally lassoed at the other end of
Toowoomba, and brought home in triumph. Pos-
sibly it was all a well-rehearsed little advertisement;
but there was one notable exhibition which Chefalo gave
in the circus itself, and it was not rehearsed. They were
paralysing the South Americans at the time, and Chefalo
cells it like this .“ While I whizz found the loop, this
part that I ascend by is shifted back to form the last
part I descend by. You onnerstan’? Yes ! Well, while
I flash round that—just up there, round like the dam fly
on the roof, upside down—l strain mine ears to catch the
click of that section to know the way all clear to come
out by. It take five seconds, de'y say, by the watch, but,
by gar, it seem five blessed years ; y,es, sir. Well, one
night my ears- not hear that click. My heart stop, my
gizzard come up into my neck and choke me. I turn the
top, I come down. I see the faces like the sea—l see that
dam section stop about 18in. away. I cling to the
handles. I wonder if she yump. Wough ! I soar over
it no I not. 'The back wheel strike the edge, clang,
twang, ten thousand roars. I whizz out into de people.
I hit one man across the stomach. I shoot through the
back of the seats. The ground rush up and hit me hard.
All my hopes want to fly away—apart; you onnerstan’. I
close my eyes. ’Oh, I alii dead. lam dead. Dam it, do
you not onnerstan’ lam dead !’ I say to-the people
w ho crowd roun’ to look at me as if I not give them show
enough. I cannot breathe—my winds is knocked-out of
me an’’they jam the bot-tel of brandy between my teeth
as though I am the horse, and pour it into me. . Then all
mv winds go ; lam choked. I try to get up. No hope.
Both collar-bones broken, and half my ribs gone. By gar,
I chuck this soon as I make my fortune. No good risk
your life for fun. No, sir ! ”
The Employers’ Federation of Victoria is
doing its best to make Australian commercialism
stink all over the world. Even after the butter
revelations, which showed many wealthy Victorian
firms to be little better than sneak thieves, it had
the front to ask Minister Mackey to excise from
his Bill the clauses prohibiting secret commissions,
and insert that —
In any prosecution under this Act it shall be a sufficient
defence to show that it is the ordinary customary usage
■of long years’ standing unadopted by reputable firms of
any trade, business, profession or calling.
A “reputable” firm is, of course, a rich butter-
swindler who has gone a long time without being
found out.
Concerning the anger of some S. Aus-
tralian Tories when they didn’t catch a fish
The old wire-pullers tried a neat little trick at the
opening of Parliament; but it didn’t come off.
The S.A. Assembly always holds a private meeting prior
to the formal opening ; it is convened by the Clerk, and
chooses the Speaker. This time the notices said that the
Chairman of Committees, as well as the Speaker, would
be chosen ; that is to say-, before the House met, and
parties had shaken down, and when it wasn’t decided
whether the Laboritbs and the Liberals would come toge-
ther, the ancient Conservative, Alfred Catt, would be
pitchforked into the chair for the 16th consecutive year.
' But the meeting insisted on stopping short after electing
the Speaker ; and now, when the Tory wire-pullers’ little
scheme for making things nice and comfortable for an old
pal has broken down, and a younger man, E. H. Coombe,
a Liberal, has been put in the chair, the same Tory wire-
pullers are making themselves hoarse snorting at the sin-
fulness of the Government in selecting a party man for
the post. The Register, which shrieks through a column
headed “ The Spoils to the Victors,” winds up by warning
the Government that it has “made a formidable foe in
Mr. Catt.” And this is the Register’s perfect chairman
—the man who, not having got a job he wanted, is
“ made a formidable foe ” ! It must be a deadly thing for
a politician to have as clumsy a friend as the Register is.
F. Leveson-Gower’s recent book of recol-
lections tells how closely the late Duke of West-
minster cuddled his money. The Duke was a
multi-millionaire, mainly through his buccaneer
ancestors grabbing 600 acres in London and a few
square miles of the rest of England. One of his
sons, a midshipman, asked for a watch. “Why
do you want one?” said the ducal parent.
Because' all the other middies have one” was
the reply. “In that case,” said the bloated
Westminster, “you do not need one. You can
always ascertain the time from them.”
The Baker bigamy trial, at Sydney, was a
case with some curious features. It turned on the
question whether there was one sister with a mark
on her back who married two men, or two sisters,
each with a mark on her back, who married one
man each. The second sister, unfortunately, didn’t
appear; people who had seen her mostly didn’t
know she was another sister, and were quite sur-
prised that she wasn’t the same sister. Both sisters
seemed to have worn the same clothes at the same
time. No one had apparently seen them together;
the accused sister said she agreed to personate the
other sister, and that she wrote her letters and
drew her money —in fact, it was an unconvincing
tale all through, and the jury brought in a verdict
that the name of the narrative was mud.
.Chas. Nyulasy (father of Dr. Frank
Nyulasy), recently deceased at Melbourne at the
age of 78, was a cavalry officer in Hungary’s
muddled insurrection of 1848-9 —the War of Lost
Opportunities. The oppression of Hungary by
Austria, and the oppression of Transylvania by
Hungary, were vaguely suggestive of the. boss
who oppresses the cashier while the cashier passes
on the aggression to the office-boy. Naturally,
when the cashier rounds on the bloated proprietor,
he may expect the office-boy to throw the ink-
bottle at him from behind. It was the office-boy
throwing the ink-bottle from behind that made
Mr. Nyulasy an exile.
Among the pitiably small questions which
recently took up the time of N.S.W. Assembly
were—
The alleged use of “ scribblers ” instead of slates in the
public schools.
The hours worked by housemaids in hotels.
The amount per acre paid for burning off timber at
Cataract Dam reserve, whether the measurements were
“horizontal” or “ surface,” and whether a certain book
had been lost on the reserve.
There were about two dozen more such problems
in the week’s record. These things may all repre-
sent wrongs or injustices, just as it is an injustice
when Tommy Jones hits Johnny Smith on the
nose in the street, and a wrong when Brown s
dog chases Thomson’s cat into Robinson’s tree.
But the Assembly should remember that it isn’t
paid to be a benevolent old hen in a poke bonnet.
It is paid to legislate, to deal with great questions,
to right big wrongs, and to be the captain on the
bridge—not the religious crank in the forecastle.
The silken bonds have been seriously
dragged again. Colonel Hoad, on some official
occasion in Japan, wore all his pomp and millinery,
ancl a British officer conceived that one of the
millinery was a millinery that was sacred to some
special brand of Britain’s own officers, and not to
be worn by “ mere colonials ’’-with impunity. He
wrote to the War Office about that millinery. The
War Office wrote angrily to Australia about the
said millinery. And the Federal authorities have
replied in a frozen tone, to the general effect that
Australia will wear the aforesaid millinery if it
wants to.


r
MR. P. GATES.
Before Treatment.
CUBED" m CORED
It 13 not exceptional for a firm to have a motto, an embodiment of the principles
of his commercial concern to which the motto is akin. The Specialists of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDiCAL INSTITUTE
Sydney, have for their motto “WE CURE TO STAY CURED.” And this fact is proven
by the countless cures made by them throughout Australasia, or wherever the
operations of their Institutes are known.
Here we publish the photographs of Mr. P. GATES, of West Australia, as ho
appeared before and after our treatment. The difference is apparent. He is im-
proving rapidly, regaining his nerve and vital power, which had been partially lost.
He is only one of thousands whom we have cured. He will be as they have been, a
living advertisement tor us in proof of our skill, ability and reliability in Medical
methods.
READER ! ! We do not kno-.v what your ailment is, but we feel sure, if it is any form of disease arising- from
certain specific causes, we can cure you. We are Experts in the class of diseases known as the Genito-Urinary.
These we have studied until there is no more to learn of them. We know them as the boy knows his alphabet. If
you are afflicted, write to our Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Wallace, who is registered by Australian, American and
English Medical Boards. You can consult him Free.
PROOFS THAT DO NOT LIE.
We are treating- thousands of cures annually, and is it not reasonable to suppose
that we understand such cases better than those who are treating only a few hundred ?
Practice makes perfect in any line, and it is none the (ess true in the treatment of
disease. You get the benoiit of Experience when you place your case in our hands.
Do not despair. Order your treatment at once, and let us add your name to cur long
list of cures.
If the slightest,doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will not cure you, it
is a duty you owe to yourself to write to some of the references we publish, and send
an addressed envelope for reply. Ask any of the attestants who have given testi-
monies to us if they think we can benefit you. V\’e court the closest investigation.
Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick men living in centres far from medical
men and aid. Thousands of men would now be in their graves l.ad we not reached and
treated them by our effective Parcel Post System.
0.
A
MR. P. GATES.
A Tier Treatment.
REASONS WHY WE ADDRESS YOU.
1. Because our practice extends throughout
Australasia.
2. Because we treat and cure more men of their
troubles than any other firm of Medical
Specialists practising.
3. —Because we are experts in the treatment of
one class of Diseases only, those known as
Genito-Uiinary Diseases.
4. —Because our works upon these diseases are
quoted as Medical authorities.
E.—Because we can refer you to any Banking
Institution in Sydney for public reference as
to our bona-fides, honesty in practice and
professional abilities.
6. Because we know the Diseases of Men like a
boy knows his alphabet or the pages of an
open book.
7. Because it is such knowledge, based upon
actual experience in the fields of disease, that
has assured for us our world-wide reputation
an l unfailing success.
8. Because we have foui Experienced and Pro-
fes-siona' Specialists, Qual lied by Australasian
Medical Boards, at our Institutes, thus giving
patients the benefit of combined Medical
opinion.
9. our books are always instructive and
enlightening, .and are the medium of much
genuine instruction to all who possess them.
Here are Nine Good Reasons why we address
you, through the medium of this advertisement.
To all sensible men who value their interest and
health, our arguments appeal, for men should
always be cognisant of their personal welfare.
DO NOT BE MISLED.
Medical Statistics prove that 50 per cent, of the men of Australia suffer from some form or
other of Vital Weakness. Our rapid and effective’cures are triumphs of scientific practice.
There are various forms of drastic remedies proposed and prescribed by the Medical Faculty
to cure this trouble, which often ruins the stomach, adding the misery such injury entails.
Correct treatment is absolutely necessary, because it is a form of ailment that undermines
gradually the entire constitution. All Vital organs suffer materially through this weakness.
The Specialists of our Institute have remedies that in !)0 per cent, of cases effect complete cures
by progressive methods which thoroughly re-strengthen and re-invigorate the whole system.
They have discovered that Vital weakness and similar troubles allied to it maybe cured in a
remarkably short space of time, provided the patient is a tractable one. Their treatment, whkh
is proved by innumerable written testimonials, is scientific, and from all sides we hear private
reports of cures in stubborn cases. By the aid of our Electro-M.cdical methods, cures may be
effected in from One to Three months regardless of age or the cause of the condition.
**•** ' • • • •
A GOOD BOOK, It tells Weak Man how to get strong. It exp'ains the Early Decay of Manhood’s
Strength, and how Perfect Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured tl ousands of weak men in Australia
during the past twenty-five years. To any man who suffers from an early breaking down of the Vital Powers, it
is invaluable. “Clinical Experiences,” 31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by
hundreds of Australian newspapers. IT COSTS YOU NOTHING. Send for it to-day.
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
Cor. Elizabeth Ci Bathurst Sts. Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute ; AND AT MELBbURNE.
Dr. Itichard Wallace, M.D.. Physician-in-Chief; Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Dept, of Women.
KCT A MOMENT TO LOSE.
If you are ill and suffering- from any dread
malady, which threatens to cut the feeble span
of life and bring you face to face with Death
before half your life is run, it is not your policy
to delay or despair. Brooding won't help you.
Despair may kill you. Be up and doing. While
you live you have a chance.
There are doctors and doctors, but you may
not have met the man who understands your ail-
ment sufficiently to cure you. Perhaps you have
tried your doctor on recommendation, and he has
failed. Have you heard of the Specialists of THE
FREEMAN & WALLACE Medical Institute and the
Staff of Physicians and Surgeons who operate ami
specialise, and may be consulted Free by any
suffering man at the Institutes, Sydney and Mel-
bourne '! If not, inquire about them and their
great skill and practice. We court the closest
investigation.
If ill, you are as much In clanger as the man
who fal.s from a precipice. Don’t hesitate, or
you may be lost. Our Specialists are E> perts
in the Rapid Treatment of Men’s Diseases.
There are thousands of cheerless homes in Aus-
tralia filled with unhappiness, lacking in genuine
companionship, possibly through physical im-
pairment or weakness of a man whose actions
justify such a condition. Privation, indiscretion
in youthful years, or recklessness often cause
a permanent physical disability ur,l< ss cor-
rect treatment is obtained. This trouble in the
hands of a Specialist yields readily. Men in this
condition should not delay one hour in seeking
relief, because such a condition is at all tim es dan-
gerous, no matter at what stage of 1 fe it appears.
& I UkG
“It is able to support
Life.” — Lancet.
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
:: COCOA
Containsirere ncuriftn rrf tbnr»
10 cups of any ordinary cocoa.
Absolutely free from
Chemicals,
Rothwell's lm.
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonic
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £1 Is. [B.
ANDRAD
BOOKS
AND
FOR
NOVELTIES.
cs
1
'
WITH >
USED BY
c
POST
FREE REGISTERED.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZIN3ARA GIPSY FORTUNE; TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,.ls ; post Is
3d. ROOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over ftp
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard-covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Marta Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping-Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, fls 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter',
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s*
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,-Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump.
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each;
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Bald heads,,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How,
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is*.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, l'.Ki
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood. ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing. 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to .Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, postBd.
God and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Siianty Entertainment, Is.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored platfes and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappiio,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handfook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins,ls. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d. Stolen Sweets. Is 6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Agf. of Reason, Is 3d. Ingf.rsoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ;• post Is 2d.
Self Instructor. Is.
AND ANY BOOR YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues :—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6 :
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical f n nni
says:— “Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ 5
FOOD
- For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and tbo AGED.
BSNOER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, fto., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
“ Gr.H.” does a scrap of description
I blew into the Victorian Assembly the other night.
Everybody was asleep, or had just wakened up, or was
just dropping off. M’Leod and Giilott drowsed on the
Government side of the table, and Prendergast blinked
opposite them. Little Chairman of Sleepmittees Craven
rested his chin on the far end of the legislative deck.
Jack Murray was breathing heavily at the disused chan-
deliers, and Peacock was dreaming on the front cross-
stench. Gaunson was on his feet, and had been there for
ages, I believe. He was talking about the Dog Act just
then. The Ministerial door opened and a large bale
of meat fell into the chamber. It was Premier Bent,
the one live individual, bar George Swinburne, on the
Government side of the House. The'only man in Aus-
tralia who lias reduced his State’s Public Debt threw a
rough witticism at Gaunson, and then fell into a seat.
And David, the extinct volcano, wandered on about this
and that, and talked^—and talked—and talked, and
plodded over flowery meads of vocabulary, and ambled by
flowing streams of cussedness, and climbed mountains of
adjectives, and screamed in obliterated caverns of com-
plaint, and threw himself on the ear of the country
generally.
They cail the Professor of Languages at
one Australian University the Professor of Bad
Language. And he nearly deserves it.


907
SOLITAIRE
SCARF PIN, 6/-
5-STONE PRINCESS
RING, 14/- •
ROUND BELOHER,
6/-
SPECIAL A NNOUNCEMENT.
UNIQUE—BRILLIANT—EVERLASTING.
SMAbL MARQUISE
RING, 12/-
714
FLAT BELCHER, 13/-
CLUSTER RING, 12/-
It is with great pleasure we have to announce the arrival from OUR own factory in AMERICA of an entirety NEW and NOVEL
consignment of the very latest and most original patterns of HIGH-CLASS JEWELLERY, specially designed for us by some of
the cleverest and most artistic designers in America.
These goods are procurable ONLY at OUR stores in Australia, and consist of
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Fancy Dress Rings, Single Stone
BARRIOS DIAMOND Rings, Unique Designs in Brooches,
Alberts, Charms, Cuff Links, Scarf Pins, Bracelets, Necklets,
Tiaras, Crescents, Hair Ornaments, Oriental Pearls, and
BEAUTIFUL ENAMELLED FINE ART JEWELLERY, all set with our
wonderful BARRIOS DIAMONDS, which for Brilliancy and
Beauty cannot be excelled by the
Finest First Water Diamonds in the World.
FANCY KNOT BROOCH, 6/-
&
:ss
886
36-STONE BAR BROOCH, 8/-
SUN BURST BROOCH, 12/-
MW/
y /i
m
w
mnw-nv q£9
SUN RAY BROOCH, 14/.
FANCY BROOCH, W/-
HEART BROOCH, 14/-
&
864
HORSE-SHOE PIN, 8/-
Since we have been established in Australia our trade has increased tenfold and we are now doin<>- more
business than any other Jewellery House in the Commonwealth, which is a’CONVfNCiNG proof that our
Goods are all that we claim for them. The reason being- that we absolutely GUARANTEE UNDER A BOND
OE £2OOO, EVERY ARTICLE SOLD BY US. Many of our clients residing- in remote districts are con-
tinually sending us letters of thanks for the satisfaction they receive at our hands, and we wish to
impress upon Country residents that their Orders taken from this advertisement will be PROMPTLY
ATTENDED TO.
BARRIOS "DIAMONDS
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
have stood the most severe tests that it is possible to put them to.
retain their Brilliancy for ever.
cannot be detected from the Genuine Article.
improve in Value every year.
917
5-LEAF SCARF PIN, 6/-
600
ROUBLE CLUSTER
RING, 1 /
90S
SOLTTAtRE STUD, 6/-
PANSY BROOCH, 1?/-
TWIN RTNG, tO'-
871
DROP EARRINGS, 6/-
TIFFANY ENGAGE-
MENT RING, 6/-
CLUSTER SCARF
PIN, 10'-
OUR MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
The above designs are all mounted in heavy 14ct. Gold-shell, warranted to
wear for 20 years, at prices ranging from 6/- to 181-
We have the largest Mail Order Department in the
country devoted exclusively to the sale of jewellery.
All orders failed the day they are received. Send us currency or money order for anything you want and
you will be surprised and delighted with the article you receive. The illustrations or descriptions hardly
do the goods justice. Remember, you send in your order with the distinct understanding- that if goods
are not exactly as represented, your money will be refunded. Address orders plainly to either of our
magnificent shops—care DEPT. B.
We guarantee each and every stone to retain its brilliancy for ever, and
the mountings to give perfect satisfaction.
We will give £2OOO to any charitable institution if it can be shown that we ever refuse to replace a
stone that does not give satisfaction. BARRIOS DIAMONDS will stand acids, heat, alkali, &c. In fact
they can be washed and cleaned like ordinary diamonds, and so near do they resemble them that
GOVERNMENT EXPERTS have been deceived. .
OUR GUARANTEE,
BARRIOS DIAMOND CO.,
100 King Street, Sydney;
52 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
HATS
S-J AVING specially selected from the world’s best
1 1 markets the latest in HARD FELT HATS, lam
able to offer values above the ordinary.
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2 —An equally fashionable
Hat, at 8/6, in five different
shapes.
No. 3 —A superior Hat, beauti
fully finished, Pure Fur, at
10/6, in five of the latest
shapes worn.
No. 4 is a liigli-class Bowler, showing in ten distinct
shapes, Fashion Fancies, 12 6, quality unsurpassed.
Country Customers post your orders to—
A. H. RUSSONS,
171 Pitt St.
Near G.P.O.
j
London
This
Trade
Mark
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
It is able to support
Life.”— Lancet .
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Ccntsu'r s n ere tiourirl n cr.( than
10 cups of any ordinal y cocoa.
Absolutely Irce from
Chem icaLs.
LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Fiuck.
NEW CLUB SHOT SHELLS
RE factory loaded with standard BLACK
POWDER and shot and wadded with the
famous U.M.C. wads. New Clubs are the most
popular shell of their class in America and else-
where, for they are hard hitting and give a uniform
pattern to the shot charge. Moderate priced.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘ OCR FAVORITE” «OI,» EVA MEE (Washable) -Rich and
duramens real sold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOEIV EVARIEES.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOEIV” BATH TUB EVAAIEE. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations .
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy,
o
>
©
€/5 S 3
D
I h
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Aro.Rerfcctfy Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
MELBOURNE
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. __
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
HEA
By using the Wilson Com.
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
| tressing head noises write
I for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after SO
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Gollins-st., Melb.


“ Janor ” : Mdlle. Sarcy, the French ballet dancer who
recently fought a memorable scrap in the French courts
in defence of her right to play Salome in tights, explained,
to the court that the career of the dancer was divided
into six stages : (1) “ Little rat,” (2) “ cpiadrille ballerina,
(3) “coryphee,” (4) “ minor subject,” (5) “subject, (o)
star. She wound up a powerful speech by emphasising*
that a dancer’s legs were her fortune, and that if she
could not show them she was undone.
, With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, t at when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, bat go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints bring
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the, skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if alio wed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
subnrt to amputation ; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don’t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisno reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a ce tain cure of
Bad Legs, Housemaid’sKnee,UlceratedJoin ts,Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look for» the Registered Irade Mark of the Grasshopper
on a green label on each box. (Registered Copvri°htl.
Safi
MelbourJSß—-
NORMAN BROS.
52-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—.
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M. P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office System.-
make Methodical Clerks,
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Tndent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
. it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra]
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
|_|OPE is the best of all doctors.
* Unfortunately, it is just when
we most of all need hope that hope
will not come to us. Is it the hus-
band who is grappling doggedly
with influenza, lung, throat, blood
or skin trouble ? Is it the little one
who is prostrated with weakness,
whooping cough, measles, teeth-
ing troubles ? Is it the housewife
herself who is fighting bravely but
in vain with antenna or other ex-
hausting trouble ?
ssoti’s emulsion
of cod liver oil with glycerine and
the hypophosphites of lime and
soda will surety bring back hope
—and health ! Such was the expe-
rience of Mrs. Mabel Innes who
On August iSth, 1904, wrote us this
4
letter from
M arrick
102, Silver Street,
ville, N.S.W.
“My little
boy, Roy, had
been subject to
severe attacks
of bronchitis
and I could not
get anythiugto
cure him. He
took Sc ott’s
Emulsion read-
ily and from
the first dose
his cough
and breathing
became much
easier. He is
plump, rosy-
cheeked, and
restored to
complete good
I health. I strongly
/ advise all mothers
/ who have delicate
/ or ailing children to
I give them a course of
/S.cott’s Emulsion.”
I Scott’s Emulsion
/is perfectly digesti-
/ ble and therefore
/enables the system to
/absorb the full bene-
/fit of the oil, instead
/of allowing much of it
/to pass away to waste,
/as common oil and in-
ferior emulsions do.
/Scott’s Emulsion is
/ therefore truly economi-
j cal and consequently the
I Housewife’s Dr. Hops
Send to-day for a free sample
bottle (enclosing 4d. for pos-
tage and mentioning this
paper) to Scott & Bowne,
Etd., 483, Kent Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W.
The Parisian dance of “legs in the air” has reached
London at last, being given as a turn at the Palace. Says
the Express : “ When the eig-ht girls ‘dance’ with their
feet in the air, lying prone, the impression is obtained of
a number of huge pink roses with their green stalks rising
from the bloom. Daring as it is, the dance seems free
from all objection, and the deep green stage, dotted with
little heaps of pink lingerie, is a bit of pure artistry.”
Jr■-
Y 8
t?
fftp EACCLLENT RKMZB9 MISKN79 v
010 ST ACCEAMSLE FORM
tms wesiciKjjur iwcfcTiv» p.-iwcipitj op ft
PLANTS KNOWN TO ACT fcOS7 SMNC/ICUL* fo
tr; 10 OLS6NSS TNS 37mN£;«CTUAUTJ /
70 PMBJINSHTLI OVERCOME |\
HABITUAL CONSTIPATUJM k
AKO TNS MANY ILLS DEPENDENT ON Hi TO Y(
OISPSL COLOS AND HtOCaciiES AKO !*■!£- \
vsmtFevirs: to act ccNicy vev y
PROMPTLY OMTH* (
KIEREY3. UYEBAMJ 60WEL& b
■MWfACTUREO ®V
CIP&T rORCntAT origin and c<uo*ici>
32S|10V/MILL LONDON. C. C.
s*rice la. Bd.
Constipation is only aggravated
by violent purgatives: Nature
simply requires a little gentle
and strengthening assistance.
Osfw
S
NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
Surpasses all other purifying
medicines, because it is tonic
and strengthening as well as
the most perfect Laxative—
(it is not a purgative).
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the CALIFORNIA Flu SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and i/n.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes —
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipa-
tion, venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a similar quantity
of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the proprietor
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre
Part of the Label.
■
V •
m
i fi?
m
?<*
•>
.->-rS' -J.>~&'
The basis of which is “ Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
The Best and Cheapest Sauce.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
l7B 2 |»
Assurance Company of London
117 PUT Si., SYDNEY ( Falmouth Chambers)
LTD.
WILLIAM N. FARMER, Mav WR
About Mummers.
The growth ot the postcard-collecting craze recalls
“ Dundreary ” Sothern’s claim that the original un-
illustrated variety of postcard came into use through his
habit of writing messages on the reverse side of envelopes
after closing them. Sothern had a mania for practical
jokes (Toole hadn’t the mania, but professed to have it
as an advertising dodge), and used to write on the
envelopes such messages as “ I will bring the five giraffes
with me on Saturday,” or “ How are you getting on with
the cockroaches now?” Another phase of Sothern’s
crude, early-Victoriari mirth was to have his envelopes
stamped with information that led people to think the
letters came from the “Refuge for Reformed Atheists,”
the “Smallpox Hospital,” the “Asylum for Confirmed
Virgins,” or the “ Society for the Promotion of Suicide.”
It was a light-hearted sort of humor, suited to an age
which loved to balance a large dish of water on top of a
partially-open door and wait results.
It has been decided, after a long trial in a Paris court,
that a lady engaged as’ a “star” dancer was justified in
refusing to appear in any dress but the traditional flesh-
tights and brief gauze skirts. She had to represent
Salome dancing before Herod, but the contract did not
say anything about costume, and so she recovered
damages from the management, which wanted to insist
on her looking something like what Miss Salome might
have been.
“ Hiphen ”: The most monumental joke I ever
encountered is at the Coliseum, London’s latest and most
ornate music hall. There is a Royal entrance leading to
the Royal Box, so that the Royal Potentate may not soil
his feet on the carpet used by his muddy-footed subjects.
The said Royal entrance is about 25 yards distant from
the aforementioned Royal Box. Lest Edward VII. should
have to walk from the cab or ’bus, or whatever he came
in, a large loose-box, worked by a gorgeous be-medalled
menial, runs on polished brass tram lines along the 25 yards
of passage, and dumps its Royal burden at the Royal Box.
But the only time Edward VII. used it he brought about
sixteen pals along. The Royal tram refused to stagger
under the load, so Edward VII. stepped down and had to
walk the whole yards, by himself, on foot. The menial
who, by failing to shift the load, had lost his one chance
of shoving a king, tore his hair in the passage, and asked
that death might come and abbreviate his misery.
“O’Fipp”: The Australian “serio” or “serio-comic
artiste” of to-day knows more about singing than her
mother, the serio'of 10 or 20 years ago, and is just as good
a dancer. The old-timer’s turn drove many a good man
to thoughts of suicide-; the modern one merely drives
him to the bar till her turn is over. There was_ once a
serio whose songs did not contain the phrase “ jolly old
pals.” She is now reduced to selling peanuts. Of course,
I would not insult such artists as Peggy Pryde and Marie
Lloyd by classing them as serios. Seriously, why don’t
some of the Australian girls go in for something like
Peggy Pryde’s branch of business, instead of the eternal
“rowdy-dowdy boys” and “silly jay” type of song,
varied only by ditties where “ coon ” always rhymes with
“ moon ”?" Also, why don’t they give an occasional Aus-
tralian song—not the imitation of cockney doggrel some-
times locally written, but original Australian stuff? Of
course, songs by local writers and composers would cost
them more than imported rubbish at the start, but a
capable woman with the courage to be different from the
ruck would surely make up in increased salary more than
the cost of her songs.
“ Snell ” : Consider again the smallness of the Austra-
lian song-birds in light opera. Dolly Castles, Aggie
Thorne, and Vinia Deloitte, Williamson’s three latest
acquisitions, are all tiny, like Flo Graupner, Vi Variey
and Carrie Moore. But the concert-singers bulk ever so
much larger. Evidently there is an impression that lead,
ing ladies in light opera should be light and little.
Miss Celia Ghiloni, the massively handsome young- lady
who endeavors to look like the Gilbertian dame of faded
charms, spent her earliest years at Williamstown, a quaint
seaside suburb of Melbourne, where ancient mariners,
looking and speaking like W. W. Jacobs’ characters, dot
the foreground of the seascape. Miss Ghiloni, as her (u;i-
assumed) stage-name implies, is of Italian parentage. She
sang ballads with vaudeville shows before migrating to
the comic opera stage.
George Edwardes has assured a Pall Mall interviewer
that the London Gaiety is “ the most moral theatre in
the world. I doubt whether any place of business is con- <
ducted more strictly. No one is allowed in without a
special pass. Suppose you had some business to transact,
there would be no difficulty about your admission. But
you would not see any of the ladies. They are kept severely
apart from the men. Ladies dress on one side of the
house—men on the other.” “Like a harem,” said the
ingenuous interviewer, and Edwardes could only reply
that that was “rather an unfortunate comparison.”
“The piratically handsome Rankin.” That was how
M‘Kee, of that ilk, appeared to Clara Morris’s eyes a good
many years ago. M‘Kee Rankin played the Comte de
Varville to her Camille in New York. The Armand of the
cast, Charles R. Thorne, was generally known as “ My
God Thorne.” Miss Morris explains that “ whenever
Thorne was nervous, confused, or ‘ rattled,’ as actors
term it, or uncertain of the next line, he would pass his
hand across his brow and exclaim, in suppressed tones,
‘ My God ! ’’—and delicious creepy chills would go up and
down the feminine spine out in the auditorium. The
male spine is not so sensitive, you know.”
Bendigo now’ prides itself on being “ the canary cage of
Australia.” Natural evolution from the mining cage,
presumably.
Jefferson’s last stage appearance w'as in 1904 as Caleb
Plummer and Golightly in “Lend Me Five Shillings.”
With his autobiography he touches on his first rehearsal
of “ Caleb Plummer,” in presence of Boucicault, author of
the adaptation. Jeff was mightily pleased with himself
after the first act, but Bouci. was disgusted. He said :
“If your ideas are right, mine are all wrong. Don’t act
in the first act ! You show the audience all you can do.
Keep surprises for them, man ! ”
Lionel Brough says University youths, with private
incomes, are spoiling the dramatic profession in England
by acting for practically nothing. Few of these gilt-edged
individuals rise above mediocrity, but their blackleg tac-
tics block the way for men of ability who believe in
decent salaries.
Melbourne is at least musical, even if not always artis-
tically so. On a recent Saturday evening, in Elizabeth-
street, there were three separate performances going on
at one time not more than 20 yards apart, and all looking
for coin from the public. There was a good old grey-
headed gentleman grinding out hymns on a hand-organ,
a German band playing something incomprehensible, and
a blind man singing coon songs to his banjo. For-
tunately, the woman with the cracked voice and the bor-
rowed baby was round at the Town Hall, and was almost
inaudible.
The best information about actors and actresses comes
from florists and photographers. Both tell of a popular
actress who, when she first came to Australia, posed as a
determined man-hater, and was wont to express with
vehemence her detestation of the sex that wears a
top hat. Nowadays the lady is married, although the
matter is kept dark for professional purposes, and she
has no lonsrer a word to say in condemnation of the male
animal. This is remarkable, because marriage usually
aggravates that kind of distemper. Contempt cf man is
bred in the softer sex by fireside familiarity.
Julius Superbus is said to be so vastly impressed with
Australia’s sustained admiration for his legs that he c< n-
templates returning hither with a co. of his own on the
expiration of his present contract.
WHEN THE CIRCUS COMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once a decade round our way,
Sad old Codville hides its gums,
When ’tis decked with posters gay,
And the tawdry circus comes.
In an hour the big' tents loom,
Monster mushrooms in the Square-
Human moths forsake the gloom,
Tempted by the noise and glai e !
Spangles ! how the spangles sir c,
As our long lost loves bestride,
With a wealth o’ form divine,
Their spry nags in airy prick !
Sadly then into the night,
Dazed and lone at heart we pass,
Peering for Life’s spangles bright,
Into mem’ry’s looking-glass.
v:o.
NYM.


TATTERSALL’S CONS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11 ••• 100,000 at 5/2 each.
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Canterbury Park, N.S.W., October 2 ••• 50,000 at 5/2 each.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 21 - ••• - 100,000 at 5/2 each.
„ . T t* tit , - \ 100,000 at 5/2, 100,000 at 10/4, and Special
MELBOURNE CUP, Fleming’ton, Vic., November 7”* j (drawn morning, day of race) 100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
Ticket and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT lias AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and* conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney,
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
V
KEEP YOUR.
BILLS DOWN
»
(iWliiMli
w
py
Purchasing
YOUR CLOTHING
FROM
CincoJn, Stuart it
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Wri'e for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure
HI
THE! FA.M:OXJS RUaiK33"S' FOE.
COUGHS, BKONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is mva ua ie, as 1 J 3 * , , ’p ‘ timi hi«
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become c 110111 c, noi ‘ P• , j ' sufficient
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, a mil a »> g
and a Complete Cure is certain. _ „ _
?=ZTir\7*T OJEP COUGHS'
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
Terrible cough caused by measles.
Improved immediately and quickly cured by
Eearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough, caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
" ASTHMA.
Two children in one family cured two years
ago by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
In the best of health now.
Have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —It is with pleasure I can say that my two
children, whom you treated two years ago with your
medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of health.
They have never had a sign of the asthma since. I always
keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure in the
house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A suiferer 73 years of age.
Thoroughly cured by two bottles of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle 1 am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. I am
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
generally.—Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
Dry hacking cough for twelve months. !
Believed at once and completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Other treatment took no effect.
Mr. W. G. HEARNE.
Dear Sir,—For twelve months or more I had a dry,
hacking: cough on my chest, that used to trouble me
terr'.bly at night time. I was told it was a touch of Bron-
chit's. I tried different sorts of medicine, which took no
effect, so I tried your Bronchit s Cure, which X have much
pleasure in informing you relieved me at once. It has
completely cured my cough. I am sure anyone can
depend on your medicine for a thorough and immediate
cure.—l remain, yours truly,
DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA and BRONCHITIS.
Ten years suffering with a terrible cough,
and wasting away.
Completely cured by
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering:
with a terrible' cough, and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. VST ALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
A sufferer for years cured by one bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
No other treatment did any good.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had
a very bad cough that had been a great trouble to her for
years. 1 tried every cough remedy I could get, but not
one of them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried
one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never
coughed since she finished it. lam glad to say the effect
has been wonderful. Yours etc.,
J. BATSEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA 25 YEARS.
Immediately relieved by Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l have been a martyr
to-Asth.na for about 25 years, and have tried almost all
known remedies for the complaint, and have been under
the treatment of leading Physicians throughout the
Australian States. I determined to try no more, but let
nature take its course. Two 3 ears ago I was asked to tr\
vour Asthma Cure, but laughed at the idea. However,
by the persuasion of a very old friend, 3 weeks ago I
commenced the first bottle of your treatment. Almost
immediately I found that 1 had made a mistake by not
taking it before. lam now about half-way through the
second bottle, and so much do I feel relieved that I take
this opportunity of sending this testimonial along for you
to make whatever use you may think fit. I intend
continuing your treatment, and I trust that before I have
finished the third bottle I shall be able to write to von
that Tam perfectly cured. lam pleased to say the effect
has been wonderful.
Yours very gratefully, PIITL. lIANN,
33 Sc., Balaclava, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS,
A South Australian storekeeper testifies
to the Efficacy of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
A sufferer 70 years old cured by it.
Well and hearty now.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l am a storekeeper,
living- in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing- of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman
is over 70 years of age, an old bushrr.an who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the medi-
cine from me. He is at my place now, and he says that
this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis for a
number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for
your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia - .
CONSUMPTION-
Too ill to leave his bed.
A complete cure.
Mr. \V. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing' to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be con-
sumption, and various other treatments had been tried,
but without benefit. It was at this stage that I heard of
your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a course of the
medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to leave my bed,
but I commenced taking it at once, and gradually im-
proved. I am glad to say that the two lots of medicine
you sent have effected a complete cure, for wjiich accept
my very best thanks.- —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., Loiidon.
Distressing, suffocating, dry cough, for twelve
years.
Entirely removed hy five doses of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
No other treatment could even ease it.
Sir,- —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from most
distressing, suffocating, dry coug'h, that could not be re-
moved or even eased by any remedy, doctors’ prescrip-
tions and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and dif-
ficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by tin
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, sir, your 3
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A five years’ case cured hy one small bottle
of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been sufierii ■
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without lu.
—I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
. $j 0> Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3532.


Be good
to yourself
by using
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
KEY BRA
FOR MAKING TIN LIKE SILVER.
LIVER DISEASE CAN BE CURED.
From Mr. Charles Newson, 7 Taylor Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, 10th March, 1905.
“For three years I suffered from liver complaint, dizziness in the head, spasmodic pains in
the upper part of the abdomen, sick headache, frequent vomiting of bitter matter, accompanied
by a feeling of depression and a disinclination for exertion. I was induced to try Warner’s Safe
Cure, and, after taking that medicine, I was promptly relieved from all pain. Since then, my
health has been most satisfactory.”
From Mrs. Margaret Doig, 60 Helen Street, Northcote, Vic., 25th February, 1905.
“For nearly three years, previous to a few months ago, I was afflicted with liver and kidney
trouble in a very severe form. I suffered intense pain in the back and under the shoulder blades,
and there was a sense of weight and pain in the region of the liver. I also had indigestion and
other symptoms of general ill-health. Nothifig seemed to give me relief until I took Warner’s
Sale Cure, and then I got relief from the first bottle I took. I continued to take Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills for some time longer, when all traces of the complaint left me, and
there has been no return of it up to the present; in fact, my health has been most satisfactory
in every respect.”
From Mr. Robert White, Fitzroy Street, Rockhampton, Q., 11th March, 1905.
“My wife suffered from very severe bilious attacks. She had medical advice, but derived no
benefit from the treatment. Having myself had experience of the value of Warner’s Safe Cure, I per-
suaded her to try that medicine. After taking two bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and a phial of
Warner’s Safe Pills she was completely restored to health. I can heartily recommend Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills to anyone suffering from biliousness.”
From Mr. Cecil Thompson, 17 Womerah Avenue, Rusheutters’ Bay, Sydney, N.S.W., 9th March,
1905. , ,
“ Two years ago I had serious disease of the liver, indigestion, dizzy headaches, and great pain
in my chest and stomach. I tried various remedies to obtain relief, but without succeeding. I was
nearly in despair, when I happened to see a pamphlet which was left at my house, containing a
number of letters from people, who, after suffering in a similar way to myself, had been cured by
taking Warner’s Safe Cure. So I thought if it would cure others, why should it not cure me, and
resolved to give it a trial. I did so, with the happy result that, in a few weeks, I was quite cured and
in the enjoyment of good health. Since that time I have been quite free from the complaint.”
From the Rev. H. E. Lewin, Warrnambool, Vic., 14th July, 1904.
“I am thankful to say that I believe your medicines (Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe
Pills) have completely cured the biliousness from which I suffered so long. lam now in the best of
health. I hope many others will derive the same benefit from your medicines as I have.”
From Mrs. A. M‘Donald, 52 Comber-street, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., 7th March, 1905.
“I suffered from liver complaint and indigestion, and, as I grew older, I became a martyr to it.
After every meal I had a sense of oppression at the chjgst, and was troubled by severe pain in the
back and under the shoulder blades. I was reduced to a condition of great weakness ; I dreaded to
stoop to pick up anything, as stooping made me feel quite faint and dizzy. For years I suffered in
this way, and could get no relief until Warner’s Safe Cure was brought to my notice. A course of
that medicine not only gave me great relief, but, I believe, has added years to my life, for I now feel
a great deal younger. I can now eat and sleep well, the pains and dizziness have all left me, and I
am in the best of health.”
From Mr. Albert Ross, 53 Oxford Street, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth March, 1905.
“ Having taken Warner’s Safe Cure for liver complaint and dyspepsia, I am glad to add my testi-
mony as to its value. For about eight months I suffered intense pain in the shoulders, chesi, and
other parts of the body. There was nearly always a sense of fullness and oppression after meals ;in
fact, nearly everything I ate gave me great pain. Talking to a friend about my trouble, he advised
me to get a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, as he had himself derived great benefit from taking it. I
followed his advice, and was soon relieved ; I believe I am permanently cured, as I have had no
return of the symptoms since that time.”
From Mrs. E. Linipus, 78 Cantonment Street, Fremantle, W.A., 6th October, 1904.
“ For many years I suffered from disease of the Liver, which caused great physical prostration
and mental depression. After suffering all that time, on the recommendation of a friend, I decided to
take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that the good effects were apparent almost
immediately after I commenced to take the medicine, and since that time my health has been most
satisfactory.”
A treatise containing valuable diet directions will be sent, post free, by H. H. Warner and Co.
Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Vie. [3
When the Alien Feels His
Power.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In 10 years a Japanese will be Chief Justice of Aus-
tralia.—Opinion expressed by a brown visitor.
E'O ! the Jingo -press informs us that we. need
not mind the Monkey—
(Sing huzza the modest Monkey with his
unpretentious ways !)
He’s as harmless and as humble as the wearied,
toil worn donkey,
Not at all the sort of person to set continents
a-blaze!
But the modest Monkey mentions that his bosom
holds Ambitions,
And the accent of the Ape, it seemeth ominously
sour;
And the landscape’s littered over with a stable of
grim monitions—
We shall dance to different music When the Alien
Feels His Power!
Lo ! the Monkey is an insect of the ruminating
kidney—
He’s as silent as a sandbag, but he thinks with all
his might;
He has got the plans of Melbourne, and of Hobart
and of Sydney— :
He may cave Australia’s door in with an axe some
starless night ! "1 .
He is thinking while we’re drinking—h» surveys
the Land of Promise—
Yea, the Monkey eyes the plunder that he hun-
gers to devour;
And he’ll make a mighty effort to extract our
jewels from us—
We shall have to load our shot-gun When the
Alien Feels His Power !
But the Monkey won’t advise us in a formal, lan-
guid fashion—
He’ll remark that he is coming when he’s notice-
ably here;
Late at night he’ll thrust his bayonet and pug-
nacious black moustache in
The bar-room where we’re fooling with our fish
yarns and our beer.
He will not send a message asking gracious
. leave to visit;
He’ll inform us of his presence with a. sudden
leaden shower;
We will hear a roar and clatter ; we will loudly
cry “ What is it ?”
Better set our house in order Ere the Alien Feels
His Power !
VIC.
GRANT HERYEY.
Bill Tarkalson and Co.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" ~X" M T E struck Brody’s station one
\ \ evening about sundown,” said Tar-
kalson, resting his arms on his
knees, and gazing into the bed of red coals with
a smile that had something grim in it. “There
was me an’ Jim Scully an’ Mat Conyers. We ’ad
a pound or two among us at th’ time, but our
’orses wur fair knocked out, an’ the grass-
bearin’ country ahead warnt none too good, so we
wur ready to tackle anything on offer at Brody’s
to give ’em a spell. Conyers was th’ only one of
us who had two mokes. He carried Scully’s
pack an’ his own. I was walkin’ as usual, but I
’ad a pack-’orse, leadin’, Took ’im for wages
owin’ last place I worked.' Le’s try a fill o’ that
new terbacca o’ yours.
“Brody was a fine-lookin’ man at this time.
’Ad the name id’ bein’ a straight goer, but he was
a darned hard nail all the same. We went up to
him with our coats off, an’ our sleeves rolled up
to show our muscle, an’ we kinder took Brody’s
eye. ‘I think I ken put you on to something
that you’ll make good money at,’ he ses. ‘ This
place is overrun with wallabies—’ad to wire-net
my horse-paddock to keep the brutes out. I’ve
just sent a mob o’ blacks out to Lorry’s Lagoon;
but if you go anywhere north-west you’ll be clear
o’ them. I’m payin’ tuppence each for scalps, an’
buyin’ all skins at market rates, less 20 per cent,
for commission an’ carriage. Yer ken get what
rations you want ’ere, an’ th’ amount ’ill be de-
ducted from your account.’
“We cottoned on at once. Scully an’Conyers
’ad a rifle each, an’ I got one from Brody, cheap.
’Twasn’t much of a concern,-but I wasn’t much of
a shot, so it didn’t matter. Scully was no dab
either; but Matthew, ’cordin’ to his own skite,
was a crack shot. Could put a bullet in the bung-
hole of a beer-cask every time it turned up rollin’
down hill. ’Ad been buffalo shootin’ in the Terri-
t’ry, too —shootin’ with one hand at full gallop.
Just a matter of nerve, he sed. W« wanted t’
’ave a few practice shots at a tree next mornin’,
but Matthew wouldn’t hear of it. There was no
sense in wastin’ good ammunition like that. He
was surprised at me an’ Scully,
“’T any rate, he ’ad a proposition to make.
He was mostly bristlin’ with new-fangled ideas at
times like this. We’d gerra supply of opium from
the Chinaman, he sed ; then we’d go out to Lorry’s
Lagoon an’ get th’ blacks to hunt f’r us. They’d
do anything for opium in that part —’specially
when it was on the spot. We’d give ’em a little
tucker an’ terbacca too—not too much—an’ pro-
mise ’em a divvy when we got th’ cheques, I
agreed it was an easy way o’ makin’ a rise. ‘ One
thing certain,’ I ses to Scully, ‘ they’d get as many
in a day as we’d get ’n a week.’
“ ‘ Eggs-ackly,’ ses Scully, in his slow, deliberate
way. He warn’t never very eloquent, but when
he sed anything it was convincin’ like. ’S good a
man as ever I met was Scully. Mostly shaved
clean, an’ his face was splashed with freckles, just
’a jf brown paint ’ad been sprinkled on’t. Con-
yers was a reg’lar beauty in comparison, but he
warn’t half the man Jim was.
“ ‘Wot I don’t like about the bizness is this,’ I
ses to Mat, * they’ll be doin’ all the hard work an’
we’ll be gettin’ the profits.’
“ ‘Eggs-ackly/ sesr Scully.
“‘ I don’t hold to that, 1 I ses* ‘ I believe in
doin’ nie share.’
“ ‘But they’re only niggers,’ ses Conyers.
“ ‘ Eggs-ackly,’ses Scully agin. _ -
“ But Matthew’s forcible logic floored me in two
ups, an’ in the end he had his way ; an’ ai-med
with opium, terbaeca. an’ rations, we goes out to
Lorry’s Lagoon. He spent our last few bob bn a
set o’ books, pens, .ink, an’ other darned things
that we could ’a’ done without.
“ ‘With so many employ-ees, an’ doin’ bizness
on a gi-gantic scale,” he explained, hitchin’i the
blamed ledgers up under his arm, ‘ there’ll be a
lot o’ bookkeepin’ to do—receipts an’ disburse-
ments, an’ that sort o’ thing. We ought t’ ’ave
scales for Weighin’ too, but we’ll get them next
time. I’ll look after th’ books an’ stores, measure
out opium an’ terbacca, check the takings an’ give
receipts, an’ superintend operations gen’ally.
That ’ill keep me party busy. You bein’ the best
'cOok, Bill,’ he ses to me, ‘ you’ll attend to) the
colander department and string scalps, an’ Jim
’ill peg out th’ skins. Ye’ll find we won’t have
much time to scratch ourselves—if th’ hunters are
' any good at all.’
“ ‘ Eggs-ackly,’ ses Scully ; but I noticed there
Was a mystified, half-vacant sort o’ look showin’
between the freckles. * r 1
“We fell in with Conyers’ plans. We mostly
did. Conyers was a Bar won native, an’ to hear
him talk ye’d think he’d been over half the earth.
I yooster try at fust to gerrim bushed about Aus-
tralia, but my ’umble remarks would only remind
him of something in Borneo or Brazil, or some
such place that was a week o’ Sundays off my
track. Besides bein’ able to ride outlaws an’ cla s
wool, he’could survey land an’ navigate a ship.
Learnt ’em at the Yooniversity, I s’pose. He ad
plenty o’push, an’ an impressive way with him
that always put him in front—so far’s me and
Scully wur concerned.
“ Well, Matthew talked the blacks over all
right—there wur about 40 of ’em. He read out
an agreement to ’em (verbal agreement it was), an’
took down their names—which wur mostly Sandy
an’ Jacky. They wur all to be purpendiklar
by sunrise every mornin’—strict, an’ not to
show back from work afore night. I forget
’ Wot th’ penalties wur now ; * instant dismissal ’
applied to a lot o’ oases, I know. Anyhow, he
made ’em pull down their gunyahs fust of all, an’
build ’em in two-long rows. He ’ad original ideas,
you’ll understand. Then they helped him build
an office an’ storehouse with bark, an’ a galley for
the cook. Wonder he thought of such a ’umble
person as tli’ nook at all. He spent most of his
time in the office, postin’ an’ balancin’ accounts.
There was no end o’ rows over them accounts, too.
Sandy’s notched stick seldom tallied with
Matthew’s ledger. But it was the billet his soul
hungered for, though bizness got so pressin’ after
a time that he ’ad to get ’n assistant. Her name
was Avelina, Gerls, he sed, wur more gen’ally
useful than boys. She cleaned the office out purty
often, brushed his hat, an’ greased his boots. Mat
was purtiklar ’bout his appearance, lernme tell
you. Made a good impression on the servants, he
sed. Avelina also fetched the mails. Mat sub-
scribed to the local paper, an’ he gorra letter now
’n’ again from a piece down, be Gunnedah
somewhere. I got hold o’ one of her letters
one day. He’d dropped it among th’ scalps.
Seems he’d been tellin’ her he was head manager of
th’ ‘ North Queensland Marsupial Company,
Unlimited,’ an’ had 140 men an’ 60 odd gerls
under him ; an’ she was askin’ for some purtiklars.
She trusted Matthew wouldn’t be gettin’ mixed
up with any o’ the fact’ry gerls. So far as I could
see there’d been no mention of Avelina.
“At night time Mat would stand in front of
the office, with his thumbs hooked in the armholes
of his weskit, an’ look down the street. Looked
just like a street with th’ fires goin’ in front o’ the
gunyahs. When th’ bucks wur singin’ corroboree
songs, an’ the dogs wur fightin’, an’ the kids
chasin’ ’em, an’ the gins yellin’, ’twarnt
unlike Paddy’s Market. Then he’d stroll down
an’ view the effect from the other end. I think
Matthew did really consider himself a big em-
ployer —if he didn’t feel like a bloated capitalist.
He liked effect, anyway, an’ was purtiklar on
style. I’m methodical meself, an’ Scully ses he’s
systematic, Dunno ; he upsets the billy purty
often. ’Tanyrate, after doin’ th’ block, Matthew’d
give us th’ latest wallaby quotations from th’
Bilt.abong Banner, an’ reckon up our wealth.
Wje{WfiPmakin’ 25 quid a week. After you with
tli’ fire&tick.
“ Well, everything went swimmin’ for about a
month. Then we ’ad to render our accounts an’
square up, ’cordin’ to agreement. Scully an’me
wanted to get a conveyance from Brody, but
Conyers sed there was no necessity for that. It
’ud mean tli’ loss of a day, an’ meantime the
employ-ees would be idle. ’Twas bad management
to leave the employ-ees idle. So wot does he do
but pack each blackfeller with a bundle o’ skins
an’ scalps, an’ send ’em off fust thing in the morn-
in’ to Brody. The gins follered wi’ the camp-
ware, es we wur goin’ to shift to new ground next
day. We could a-got in simul-taneous ourselves,
but Conyers ’ad a balance-sheet an’ a capital
account an’ some profit-an’-loss to make out yet,
an’ the day-book to rule off.
“ ‘ We must ’ave these matters in order when
we go to th’ office,’ he explained, ‘so we’ll be
able to check th’ station account an’ see that all’s
square.. I don’t say. es Brody would do a man out
of a scalp, mind you ; but no man’s infallible, an’
, figures is things th’ best o’ ’em might easily
blunder at —often do. Just as well to be sure.’
“ ‘Eggs-ackly,’ ses Scully, starin' at th’ ground.
“We got th’ horses an’ groomed ’em, an’pot-
tered about- till dinner time. Mat was still in
the office, perched on a saplin’ seat, an’ bent over
a bark desk, subtractin’ from a pile o’ matches in
front of him. There was scraps o’ paper an’ ink
splotches all over th’ ship, but th’ blamed accounts
warnt balanced yet. We has dinner, an’ he goes
at ’em again. ’Twas four o’clock ’fore we gorra
move on.
‘ ‘ ‘ Wot’s th’ sum total ? ’ I asks him as we rides
along, Mat with th’ ledgers under his arm, some
papers stickin’ out of his top pocket for effect, an’
a pencil stuck behind his ear.
“He ses proudly it was £126 7s. lOd. We wur
surprised.
“ ‘ How much is that each ?’ I ses.
“Mat opens th’ ledger an’ examines several
pages—folios he called ’em,
“‘lt’s £42 2s. ll|d.,’ he ses. ‘That’s ten
guineas a week we’ve been maltin'. In a year’s
time we’ll be worth £5OO each.’
“ ‘ Eggs-ackly,’ ses Scully.
“We leaves our ’orses in th’ stockyard when
we gets in, an’ Matthew sails into th’ office with
th’ ledgers. Me an’ Scully stopped at th’ door,
there bein’ no need for all to speak at once.
“‘Well, wot d’yer make of it, Mr. Brody?’
asks Mat, his face one big smile.
“ ‘ Make of wot ? ’ sea Brody.
“ ‘Th’ skins an’ scalps, of course.’
“‘Wot skins an’ scalps?’ses Brody, surprised-
like.
Why, them es we sent jn with th’ blacks this
mornin’.’ The smile was wastin’, an’ looked sick.
“Brody leaned back in his chair an’ looked
mystified. ‘l’ve not heard anything about’em,’
he ses.
“Mat’s jaw dropped an’ his eyes jumped ’sif
he’d been hit on th’ back o’ the neck.
“ ‘ Th’ only blacks that have come in wur those
I sent to Lorry’s Lagoon,’ ses Brody. ‘ They
brought their lot in, an’ I paid them. You’ll
find them in town.’
“‘My Gawd!’ ses Scully, turnin’ his head
round slowly like a bogged cow does. Poor chap—
’e was stunned. . .
“ ‘Th’ scamps ’ave took us down, Jim,’ I ses in
a whisper,
“ ‘ Eggs-ackly,’ ses Jim, an’ he looked sad.
“‘You paid ’em!’ gasps Conyers, an’ he
seemed to get something in his throat wot he
couldn’t swaller—p’rhaps th’ dead smile. ‘ Well,
that’s a dem fine go ! Them was our skins,’ he
ses. ‘We employed th’ blacks to hunt for us ’
“ ‘ I know nothing about that,’ Brody chips in,
cold-like. ‘ I employed them to hunt for me, an’
I paid them accordin’ to results. In any case, as
th’ law is in Queensland nowadays, you can’t em-
ploy aborigines without a special license.’
“ ‘ Wot are we to do, then ?’ asks Conyers.
“ Brody opens an account-book, an’ he ses,
‘ There’s ’leven pounds against you an’ your mates
for supplies. You ken pay that.’
“ That floored Conyers proper. He walked out
with his head down, tryin’ to hide them blamed
ledgers under his coat. Scully was squattin’ agin
th’ wall now, chewin’ a bit o’ grass an’ starin’ at
the floor. I goes up to Brody to arrange for the
liquidation o’ the darned company.
“‘lt’s purty evident we’ve been had,’ I ses.
‘ We’re left without a bean, so I s’pose you’ll allow
us time to settle that little account.’
“‘Well, yes,’ he ses; ‘l’ll allow you three
months ’——
“‘Thank you, Mr. Brody,’ I ses. ‘lt’s un-
fortunit
“‘ln th’ meantime,’ old Brody goes on, ‘l’ll
look after your gear for you, an’ yer ’orses ken be
fatt’nin’ in my paddock. I won’t make any charge
for that.’ _
“Darn his eyes, but that knocked me. I believe
to this day the old dog put them blacks up to it.
He went with us to th’ yard. There was only
Scully’s hack an’ ray pack-’orse there ; Conyers an’
his live stock ’ad fled. 1 took possession of rae
swag, an’Brody took possession of the rest. We
squatted down an’ filled our pipes then. ’Twas
’n occasion when a draw was comfortin’—though
’twarn’t much of a draw out of a ’hundred an’
twenty-six quid.
“‘Wot are we goin’ to do about it, Bill?’ ses
Scully.
“ ‘Damfiknow, Jim,’ I ses. ‘Don’t see es
we’ve gorra hope.’
Warn’t no use hangin’ round, anyway, so we
got goin’ purty soon on Matthew’s tracks. Come
on to him, camped, at sundown. He ’ad th’ day-
book left, an’ was tearin’ out th’ leaves an’ feedin’
th’ fire with ’em.
“‘Pity yer didn’t boil yer billy with’ em at
fust,’ I ses. ‘This is where yer management o’
th’ great Marsupial Company ’as landed us ; ’ an’
I throws me swag down, with emphasis.
“‘Never mind. Bill,’ he says, very quietly;
‘ we’ll get even with old Brody one o’ these days.’
“‘We want £3 13s. 4d. from you, anyway,’ I
ses. ‘ That’s your share o’ the bill yer left us to
foot.’
“ ‘ Eggs-ackly,’ ses Scully.
“‘Oh, that’ll be all right,' ses Mat, softly.
‘ I’ll fix that up. For the present I’ll carry your
swags along on my horse.’
“ He carried ’em along right enough—for seven
weeks; then, bein’ mostly ahead of us, he poked
into the one solitary vacancy that was out that
way, an’ me an’ Scully wur left to hump our own.
But Matthew was mag-nanimous, after all. ‘ I’v*
fixed that little account up for you,’ he ses,
handin’ me a sealed envelope es he was goin’
away. When I opens it I finds this —writ on a
survivin’ folio of th’ company’s books :
“ ‘ William Tarkalson and James Scully, Esqs
“ ‘ Dr. to Matthew Conyers.
“ ‘ To carrying their luggage on his horse for
seven weeks at 10s. per week .. .. £3 10 0
“‘ By contra a/c. .. . .. .. 313 4
“ ‘ Balance herewith .. .. ..£034
“ Th’ balance herewith was his share o’ th’ bit
o’ rations we had, an’ three tucker bags.’’
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


. _ , i r j j fvArv often brings in its train senous
A DISORDERED LIVER if n°t atten and y the kidneys become lax in their
results. The stomach, the digestive g complexion generally assumes a
duties. Pimples and blotches appear, and J e too numerous to
nasty, sallow tint. All the sympton eslJ ecially after eating, difficulty in
mention, but the most common are pams "discontent and loss of appetite. A Dis-
breatliing, a general feeling of depression a Qrdered Li y er nee ds to be corrected in a
natural and easy manner, and not by taking
strong purgatives, mineral salts, and other
injurious preparations. The finest natural
vegetable remedy known to medical science
in this century is Bile Beans for Biliousness.
They cure all disorders of the liver quite
easily and naturally. They also cure per-
manently by righting first causes ; and for
this reason there is absolutely nothing else
that is “just as good.”
Mrs. E. Moore, of 12 Bray-street, Erskme-
ville Sydney, says:—“Some seven years
ago i was troubled with very severe pains
in the small of my back, accompanied by
constipation, a poor appetite, and a worn-
out feeling, making me feel very miserable
and entirely unfitted for my household
duties, and In time my system became com-
pleted debilitated. For some time I was
an out-patient at the hospital, but I was
told that I could only be patched up, as I had a congested liver. It was then> -decided
of value to others.”
m
m
SKIN ERUPTIONS, SPRING AILMENTS, and, by giving t°ne wdlward
and INFLUENZA!
Obtainable generally at Is.
l*d., or 2s. 9d. LARGE
BOX (containing three
fl!o 1c lirl fil7.pl
A,
F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE Q.UEEN.
having been brought to Messrs. A. b F. Pears, Ltd,
that imitations of their Specialities aie being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Saeet,
Melbourne, their Agents for tile sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceed ngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, eta
Ltd.
Carmen of the Circus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f tired surf brushes over the bar
1 where the red Penitentiary faces Long
Bay. Here and there the .scrub is broken,
and wind-driven gulls hover around the new prison
walls. The thin road is like a wound on the liip
of the shore where it twists towards Maroubra and
the Lazarette. A newly-planted cemetery with its
gibbet-shaped crosses and headstones is a pagan
blot on the sea front.
Half-seen humpies peep from the scrub. “The
Tug’s Rest” is made of tin and bag. “The
Glutton’s Retreat” and “Nine Stomachs” are
two kerosene-tin villas, frequented by bottle-ohs
and jockeys, and numerous horse-faced mannikins.
They come on Sundays, and the clear air is soon
festering with the clamor of poultry : fighting and
other kingly inventions.
Sven and Borka the Finn live on the beach.
Their huts are not large, but their baskets are
always full of red bream, with here and there a
blackball or sclmapper. A tide-swung lugger
rubs her shoulder against the pier. The Finn
sprawls face down in the hot, wet sand —dreaming
of cold Baltic tides, or the ice on the bow of a
North Sea haddoeker.
Sven, wrapped to the waist in surf, beckoned
me nearer. I sat on a boulder where the billy
rested over smoking ashes. Hauling his boat into
the shade, Sven sat down.
“Dis fishin’ vas a fool-trade. De fish is always
wet, und when he is dry he is dead. Gif me a
trade dot vas alive—de old Queensland kanaka
boat, or an Arab slave dhow ; dey vas both de
same.”
I threw some dry leaves under the billy.
Sven’s tiger-mauled hands interest me ; his pants,
rolled up to his thigh, reveal a criss-cross of
scars and mutilated sinews. He caught my
glance and laughed harshly.
“A jaguar slut tried me for breakfast von
mornin’. Ye vas runnin’ to Hambourg from
South Americas, und she vas sick mit der smell
ob der sea, und, fool like, I go into her cage to try
un\l make friends.
“ Ven Cooper’s circus came to Australia I got a
billot mit dem as keeper. You do not remember
Carmen, de Spanish girl dot used to dive from de
roof into de net. She came troo de air like a
gull, und she vas always laughin’. She vas
married to one of der circus-grooms named Molloy.
He vas a red Irishman mit der face of a priest.
“ Carmen vas a favorite mit everyone ; but der
droble came about because Molloy vas a favorite
mit everyone too. Molloy vas nefar far from der
ladies, und der vas a lot of dem in der company.
“ In de bush or in town Carmen go to church in
her wine-colored mantilla. I tink religion make
dese Spanish women silly at times, but Carmen
vas der prettiest leedle fool dot efer listen to an
Irishman’s blarney.
“She make a good picture as we go troo de
bush towns, ridin’ her Andalusian mule mit der
trappings of silk dot vas de color of de toreador’s
cloak. Gymnastics make her body beautiful; she
haf no heavy h.ip movement. She valk like an
athlete, und she haf de eyes of a Moorish lady.
“Carmen vas slow to follow her husband’s
movements about de circus. He used to feed de
ponies und water de dogs. It is de business of a
circus pony to look shiny in de ring und to wear a
satin skin efery nide. De groom is at de beck of
de ring-master, und if a horse wear a smear on his
flank de ring-master vill bite de groom before der
whole company. Sometimes he vill bite a piece
off his screw.
“We had opened all along de line to crowded
houses. Two good seasons had. put a leedle
money into de farmers’ pockets ; und dey came
in carts from de far back homesteads to see
Sarah, de elephant, and Sultana, de big wicked
lioness mit der two cubs.
“Carmen did not like de bush- hotels. She
lived in her tent shut off from de circus by a
striped awning. Der lofe of animals vas strong
in her. She vas de daughter of Carlos Acantino,
de bull-fighter ; her moder vas a finer dancer than
La Belle Otero. Der shouts of der multitude,
der roaring of beasts vas de music of her heart*
In de hot Australian nights you vould find her
mit her cigarette und her guitar, playing till
Molloy, her husband, should finish his work.
“Molloy mit his priest’s face had noding in his
head. He gif not a dam for her Moorish romances
und songs. He vas cold to her in de presence of
oder women. Carmen remembered dot, at der
moment she took her leap from der roof efery
nide. Und Molloy deceived her in his clumsy
vay.
“De-oder woman vas Madamoiselle Cherez, de
French dancer. She used to write notes to
Molloy. She left dem in de horse chaff and under
de saddles. • One nide he dropped Mademoiselle s
last note from his pocket, und Carmen picked it
up in der tent.
“ Madamoiselle Cherez vas 19. Carmen was 30,
und mit all her arts und graces she could nod call
back de 10 years dot separated her from de French
dancer. . Dey were 10 stone vails dot could
nod be put aside. Der vas no rouge on de French
girl’s face. Carmen used to valk across de ring ;
Cherez bounded und ran—dot is de difference 10
years make.
“Dot nide de beobles go mad ven dey see
Carmen flyin’ from de trapeze under de high
canvas dome. Id vas all one mit her now vether
she broke her neck or lived.
“ Molloy vent to Carmen’s tent after de per-
formance, und told her to pack up and catch de
midnight train to Sydney. All de members of de
circus vas goin’, he said, und he vas sorry he had
to stay pehind to truck de ponies und mules.
Carmen vas used to de hurry of circus life, und
she make no complaint. Molloy, in his shirt
sleeves, -und a straw in his mouth, stayed mit
her for a few minutes, tryin’ to bluff de suspicion
from her eyes.
“ I shall nefar forget de heat of dot nide. Id
stirred up de sour-eyed vultures in de cages. A
wolf howled from de end waggon, und Sultana, de
big lioness, lay mit her hot flanks against de bars.
I)e hot nide und der suckling cubs make her cross.
I filled her drinkin’ trough mit de horse-pump,
und I gave her some on de chest und head to; cool
her a bit.
“All de company had left for de midnight
train. Dere vas a light here und dere inside de
circus, but de ring vas dark. De grooms und de
shifters ver asleep in tents, for dey would haf to
be up at dawn to see dot eferyting vas trucked.
Den I tinlc id vas alride time to have a smoke mit
Ahmed Khan, de elephant-keeper. So I Cross
der ring, und go past vere de camels vas lyin’
beside <ie hay-truck. 1 look back quick, und see
a small lamp movin' among der cages. lie lamp
vas lifted to de bars of de tiger’s cage, und den
it pass along to de pumas, und I hear de young
leopards winp round, purrin’ und strokin' de bars
ven de lamp vas lifted to de door of tlieir house.
“ ‘ Who de hell play viil-o'-de-visp among de
beasts?’ I said, und i crawled back under tie
puma s cage until 1 cooin face to face mit Carmen
starin’ into de heavy barred ring cage dot bold do
big lioness und her two cubs.
“ ‘ Vot is wrong, senora?’ I say. ‘I tort you
go avay by de night train.’
“ * i vas lookin' at de 11011 s, Herr Sven,’ she say
to me. Hiie held up de leedle lamp und point to
de cubs lyin’m de lar corner of ue cage. ‘ now
quiet dey are, she says ; und she look at me quick,
und i see dot she vas tryin’ to laugh. ‘ liovv much
for de keys of de cage, Herr 6 veil, how much ? ’
“Der vas a lot of tiny bells on Carmens wrists,
und as she laughed dey tinkled on de hot night
air. ‘ Vhatdoyou vant mit de liou-cubs, Car-
men ? Dey vas not und heavy to carry ; und de
boss does not luce de young beasts disturbed at
night.' „ , . ,
“ ‘ .Listen, Herr Sven; I vant to play joke on
my husoand. rue is unkind to me. i vouid like
to fliken h.ui a Iceo.e. Cif me de cuds for a
while, lien oven.’ _
“ I could see no harm in a joke, und id vas hard
to refuse Carmen any.ting. i said no more, in
de meat-waggon 1 laid haif-a-sneep on der hook.
Mrs. Leo vas nod asleep veil i threw it into der
open deu. IShe ioiiowed de meat nut her nose to de
boards, und Carmen, mit a quick snatch, slid da
iron gate back so dot wo haf de cubs separate from
de moder.
“Carmen laughed und took de keys from my
hand ; den she opened de gate uud lift de two
cubs in her arms. Dey vas noavy enough for a
man to carry, but Carmen vas as btrong as she vas
quick. , , ,
a “ Mit a cub under each arm she go to her own
tent. Der vas no light inside, und she placed
dem under de clothes, at de foot ot de bed. Joey
cried like puppies for shoost a minute, but dey
vas sleepy, uud uey s-on lie qu.et.
“ Away down de da.k circus we heard Molloy
singm a song about de stars of heaven uud ue
green Irish grass dot grow near de lakes of cove
jt'mn. If id had not been for Carmen und her
vild eyes I should Jiaf split niit laughter wuen I
tink oi ue two leedle warm lions m jimmy s bed.
Ynen he turned m lie stick his long cold lect
between dem.
“ One by one de lights in de circus tents go out.
De leedle pavilion ot de French dancer was last to
go dark. But I see Molloy walk nut her across de
rmg ; und she danced as Sie valued. bioumg
couid stop de leedle i 1 relic a girl noin dancing,
tide danced m de dark mit de sawdust about ner
feet until Molloy saia, ‘Cherry, dear, be quiet.
Come, he said, ‘ und I vill make golfee m my
tent. Der v,is some Turkish cigarettes in my bag.
“iVloUoy lit up de tent-lamp, und de.rrencli
dancer sat lauglnn on Carmen’s shawl. Molloy in
liis shirt-sleeves iieid up a bottle of wine to de
lamp und made a mock bow to Cherez. His back
vas to de tent-opening.
“ Hen I hear a noise among de cages. He D g
lioness tiy round und round her den. She stood
up against de bars und gave a wiime dot set der
wolves runuiii’ up an down deir houses like
fnkened dogs. Her panther rise up at de sound,
und lash himself from corner to corner, und de
monkeys down by de empliant-house squeal und
chatter to one anoder. Her vas a common oeast-
cry in de jungle —der cry of de female when a cub
goes astray. He tigress will run amok und kdl
right und left; de lioness haf more judgment, she
vas more cunning, but it vas death to cross her
vas laughin’, mit his mouth to the wine.
He French dancer, put her cigarette between his
lips. It vas not until Mod6y caught her hands
und kissed her dot I begin to see what torture it
must be for Carmen. Hen I hear de squeal of de
iron door as it swing bade ; de soft pad ot de lioness
feet as she drop from de cage to de ground.
“ I vas standin’ away from de tent, und I see
Carmen leap away from de cage-door. Her vas
no sound about de hippodrome, Stoopm under a
waggon, I saw der big lioness movin’ across der
ring? ‘Carmen haf let her out,’ I said to mmeself.
I could not see der joke any vlieres.
“He lioness stop for a moment to purr to de
cubs she vas see kin . She vas like a cat speakin
to her kittens in der dark. .
“It vas my business then to call de circus-
beobles to help me drive back de beast to her cage.
But before I couid shake mmeself from my sur-
prise de lioness bounded mit a snarl into Molloy s
“ He vas standin’ nut Ins back to de openin ,
between her und her cubs, und she strike him on
de neck as she pass. He pitch face-down as
though someone had kicked his knees from under
him ; no word, no cry between de kiss und de
lion-stroke. . ... 1
“ 1 tink de scene made me silly for a. while, tor
de next ting I see vas de lioness stridin’ from de
tent nnt a cub in her mouth. She make straight
for de open cage. ~ , ,
“Igoto de tent. De leedle French dancer vas
huddled across de body of Molloy. She vas not
hurt, she only fainted. I lifted her, und de oder
lion-cub almost roll from under her. In a flash 1
see dot de lioness would come back for it.
“Hen mit der face of a devil Carmen came
into de tent. * You shall not take dot woman
from here,’ she said. ‘ Leave us together etfinoni-
bre de Diosl’ Her vas murder in her face, but I
haf no time to argue. I struck her amoss de
temple mit my fist, caught her by de vaist, und
carried her und Cherez from de path of de lioness.
Sven’s pipe had gone out; he stooped absently,
broke an old fish-basket with his hands, and
thrust it bit by bit into the fire.
“ Haf some tea mit me,” he said, without look-
ing up. There was an apology in his eyes as he
indicated the hut in which he lived. “ I cannot
ask you inside slioost now.
I turned curiously towards the small undraped
window, and saw a face recede from it hastily. I
became suddenly conscious that a pair of uufor-
getable Spanish eyes had been staring at me
through the cracked pane. A toreador-like scarf
fluttered from view.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


Covered with Boils
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla Cures Severe Case of Impure Blood. Also Im -
proves the Sight. A Blood-Builder.
Mr. James Johnson, engineer, of
South Forbes, New South Wales,
sends us his photograph, and says:
“My whole body being covered
with boils, I was induced to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla (through an advertise-
ment in the local paper), and after
taking one bottle I am entirely free
from any eruption whatever. I also
found it beneficial to the eyesight,
being a strengthener not only of the
blood, but of the sight. I can and will
confidently recommend this valuable
blood-purifier to all suffering from
similar complaints as myself.”
This is a splendid testimonial, and
we trust it may prove of great benefit
to you, giving you renewed confidence
in this grand family medicine.
“Ayer’s Sarsaparilla makes the blood pure.” This is a vpry short sen-
tence; yet it may mean everything to you, even life itself. “Everything
depends upon the blood.” This is another short sentence, and yet how
true it is. When the blood is pure and rich, then the nerves are strong
and steady, the brain is clear and active, and the skin is free from rashes
and eruptions. If you are not in the best of health, get this grand medicine
at once. You will feel its tonic, strengthening effects before a couple of
days have passed.
Be sure you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla. The old reliable Sarsaparilla.
Do not run any risk. Look out for imitations.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Overcomes Depressing Effects of a Warm Climate.
Prepared - •• -tf, s A _
m
Va
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 G-eorge Street,
SYONTBY.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam^Aniseed'
"COUGHS
.For/ COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
> Safe for Children.
TRADE
MARK
aniseeP
Of all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
DEfIFHESS CURED.
THE AUROPHONE,
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the BELIEF and CUBE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address :
THE AEROPHONE CO.,
14 Oastlerea<fh-street, SYDNEY.
f^rtmkennes^
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and'delight you.
ONE OF mant:
Ravensthorpe, W.A.. 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, touch has effected
a cure. I have no desire for drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
yours gratefully. R.O.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address •
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S ,
129 COLLINS STREET, Mclbodsnc.
and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using:
The only infallible Remedy for <VEA;i .ESS, DEiILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia — PEßßY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; tf.S. lF.— Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W_ C. ZEIiIDIRaiIDGKE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BKOHUHLTIS,
DiAHltilHiA, hear* On
the Government Stamp the u&uMl
of the Inventor^-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 2s lokto, says:
“Ifl were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
ta best recommendation.'’
WEAK MADE STRONG!
Try Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
Price TWO GUINEAS.
IT Animates the sluggish
circulation, Stimulates
the Brain to Activity,
and fills the body with
Life, Ambition, and En-
durance. It furnishes the
Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney .
&
AST INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving- instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature deeav and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this hook.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the Same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible, Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne,
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophj', Debility, \aricocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Reined 1 '
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Af/dress s HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
CONSIDER YOUR HEALTH I
When you consider how much depends upon it, what can be more
important to you than the state of your health? If you are troubled
with bad or indifferent hea i your capacities for work or pleasure
are affected—even your life is threatened. Thousands of people know
by old experience that
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are a blessing in the household and in every country of the world.
No other medicine exercises a more marked control over
Biliousness, Sick-Headache,
■W* indigestion, Nervous “’■i
Prostration, Constipation,
and other painful forms of stomachic or nervous trouble.
BEECHAjVL’S PILLS are good alike for man, woman, and
child, if taken according to directions. They are pre-
eminently a family medicine—a remedy to have by one in
readiness for every occasion where need arises.
There is yet another point in this connection that you should mark
on the tablet of your memory. BEE CHAM’S PILLS, in addition to
their acknowledged value in Kidney, Liver and Stomach disorders,
have a specially beneficial effect in such ailments as are peculiar to
women, many of whom endure needless pain and ill-health through
ignorance of this important fact.
6,000,000 BOXES SOLD ANNUALLY.
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN BOXES,
Price lOld., Is. Hd., and 2s. 9d.
St
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
|j FURRED TONGUE.
' INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Barters
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
They TOUGH
ure they are
i,
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Price Is.
Pott Free.
A CARD.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., E di„.,
L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.G.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting-Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s Hospitals ; Surgeon-in-Charge of Troops, South African War ; Author of “ Mind Over Mat-
ter,” “ The Diseases of Men and Women,” etc. , may be consulted personally or by letter, FREE, at his consulting
rooms ' “ELMLEY HOUSE," 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confidential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Urinary Complaints,
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. Also Specimen
Copies of “ The Diseases of Men and- Women,” posted FREE to any address on receipt of six stamps.
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
A Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients received at Dr. Martin’s Private Hospital, and special attention
given to all cases that have failed to get relief elsew'here. .
PR. MARTIN. M.D,
44 Elmley House/' 151 Elizabeth-st., City.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


INDIA RUBBER
HOT WATER BAGS.
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
♦
Perdriau Rubber Go.“
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
A Policy for the
Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. ; POSTED, Bd.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
SHVWHVH
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
WAKK. sn.
4fBU
J?a a
WOLF
0 T
Max
'*Uo
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Alap at—
“ TBCES BX.OCXC.”
Cotlins-St., MELBOURNE
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
KEMP’S PATEHTSHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long: as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FEETOD (MHIIE * CO., fIEUIRIE.
: f *: ■
!fi!
mi
w •
Mi
■
22“ MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS,
SaiA/VZES IHXT STOCK mmaSSß^.
All Kinds of Engineers’ Fittings & Supplies
ulleys
Sha
mg
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces,
Emery Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators,
Starrett Fine Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
writ, for Prices to 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theetricil and
Domestic Histor/.
Pelt Free, is
The Lite, Adventures
end Confesesion* of •
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Put Pres, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Boo.cs and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY,
A NOVEL PRESENT.
AN receipt of P.0.0.*
V/ forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for SI- we will
address in Australia one
9ct. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with either
Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed the same
quality a* brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6. In Isct.
Gi.Fi Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illus
trated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully addressed
to R. SIMS, Cold Wire King; Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne, Vic.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
“ Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD
OYER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success*"
—J. Hall* School-house, E. Markham
AGENTS,
ELLIOTT BROTHERS & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
ittW
BT AM>
rnsv-otAw
Storm
w AvinAUHL
No. 8160.
1 Blade.
Cocoa Handle • //•
Buffalo Hand/o • //©
Stag Handle * * - f/0
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
mrm thm
PEST.
tasEi
Size, 6J" x 3*" x 5".
We are Direct Importers
and have
fi»r Sale-
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all sixes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineer's’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
B. L. SCBUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 OLA.RBKTCB STREET, SYDKTBY.
SAVE MONEY IN YOUR FORGE by usings*.
BILLETTS PATENT TUYERE
SM:
II
■
i
Works Without Water. Saves 25 per cent, of Coal and 25 per cent, of Time.
Heats the Blast. WILL NOT CHOKE OR BURN.
Used by Leading Mines and Engineers throughout Australasia, and by nearly all Smiths.
INNUMERABLE TESTIMONIALS. TO BE HAD OF IRONMONGERS.
Sole Licensees :
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
486 Collins St., Melbourne
