

“GRAND SUPREME” BRANDY.
‘PIG” STOUT (Guinness’)
R. G. WATKINS «SC. 00-,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
JEFFREY
Roller, Steel and Special CHAINS
aHco^A.^.n»,
——
fiariieys Orient jjotel.
B PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°* so Pitt street, SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Jeffrey Elevators and Conveyors, and Labor-saving Appliances.
We invite correspondence ; and if you have any large quantity of goods or material to handle, whether on mine, in warehouse, or on
wharf, we will quote for the most suitable plant for your work, if you will give us the necessary particulars. Send for Catalogues.
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
WHISKY
MB’S
THE ROYAL
B
DISWAN LAMP.
m
Economy nr Current.
Equality or Lioht.
THE
mm & swan
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
10
O
CONTINENTAL MOTOR TYRES.
Wallace Continental Cycle Tyres.
AT ALL MOTOR AND CYCLE DEPOTS. N.S.W. BRANCH: 7 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
H
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
cINTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
“GHOOMH
DAILY
TREAT!
1
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
anti CORDIALS.
1
m
No Other in
the World .
ENGINES
equals
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced-
HELI DON SPA — “ Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water/’
The Bulletin
Vo] 26.—N0. 1326.]
[Thursday, July 13, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Witt, How to Look at Pictures, 6s, post 6d.
Political Economy : Expositions selected from the Best
Writers, Is 6d, post sd.
Latham, Famous Sayings and their Authors, 3s 6d, post Bd.
Harbottle, Dictionary of Battles, from the Earliest to the
Present Time, 3S'6d, post Bd.
Darwin,, Municipal Trade : For and Against the Substitu-
tion of Representative Bodies for Private Proprietors,
14s, postage Bd.
Davitt, The Fall of Feudalism in Ireland, 7s 6d, post Bd.
Gibbs, Facts and Ideas: Short Studies of Life and
Literature, ;is (id, posted.
McCabe, Tlis Religion of Woman : An Historical Study,
I R.V.A., 3s, post 6d.
Watts, The Meaning of Rationalism, R.P. A. Series, Bs, p. (5d
Turner, History of the Colony of Victoria, from its
Discovery to its Absorption in the Commonwealth,
2 vols., 21s, post 2s.
Tom Petrie’s Reminiscences of Early Queensland, from
1887, 7s 6d, post Bd.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE;.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For thk Cure ok
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
Wm* m and throat'.”
■r HUDSON’S eumenthol jujubes in
CONTAINS M MMW 0« «™» ' “"Jv JKVS 2 SS&tJZS? ”'»•
bur.r?*S2s&2: ® *■«•* *-*
THE BED PAGE.
THE GAVE OF LILITH
A N Athenaeum writer says that Arthur
l\ Symons’s prose “steals upon the senses
XL like a fine odour, fading while it invades,
invading while it fades; or it might be
compared to the shadowy image of moving clouds
in a quiet lake, for it is half a shadow and halt an
image of the vague emotions marching through
the mind.” That is prettily urged, but Symons s
prose scarcely deserves it. It would apply more
faithfully to Yeats, and after him to breorge
Russell. Russell has recently published a little
book of prose called The Mask of Apollo, ana
Other Stories, “by A.E.” (Dublin, \\ haley ; 2s. 6d.
net). They are noble dreams, aptly told, that will
be hailed gladly by our mystical brethren, ine
best way to hint their character is to reprint (as
hereunder) portion of one of them.
£
Out of her cave came the ancient Lilith ; Lilith
th® wise; Lilith the enchantress.. There ran a
little path outside her dwelling ; it wound away
among the mountains and glittering peaks, and
before the door one of the Wise Ones walked to
and fro. Out of her cave came Lilith, scornful ot
his solitude, exultant in her wisdom, flaunting her
shining and magical beauty.
“ Still alone, star gazer ! Is thy wisdom of no
avail? Thou hast yet to learn that I am more
powerful, knowing the ways of error, than you
who know the ways of truth.”
The Wise One heeded her not, but walked to
and fro. His eyes were turned to the distant
peaks, the abode of his brothers. The starlight
fell upon him ; a sweet air came down the moun-
tain path, fluttering his white robe; he did not
cease from his steady musing. Lilith wavered
in her cave 'like a mist rising between
rocks. Her raiment was violet, with silvery
gleams. Her face was dim, and over her
head rayed a shadowy. diadem, like that
which a man imagines over the head of
his beloved : and one looking closer at her face
would have seen that this was the crown he reached
to; that the eyes burnt with his own longing;
that the lips were parted to yield to the secret
wishes of his heart.
“ Tell me, for I would know, why do you wait
so long ? I, here in my cave between the valley
and the height, blind the eyes of all who would
pass. Those who by chance go forth to you, come
back to me again, and but one in ten thousand
passes on. My illusions are sweeter to them than
truth. I offer every soul its own shadow. I pay
them their own price. I have grown rich, though
the simple shepherds of old gave me birth. Men
have made me; the mortals have made me im-
mortal. I rose up like a vapour from their first
dreams; and 'every sigh since then, and every
laugh, remains with me. lam made up of hopes
and fears. The subtle princes lay out their plans
of conquest in my cave, and there the hero dreams,
and there the lovers of all time write in flame their
history. I am wise, holding all experience, to
tempt, to blind, to terrify. None shall pass by.
Why, therefore, dost thou wait ? ”
The Wise One looked at her, and she shrank
back a little, and a little her silver and violet faded,
but out of her cave her voice still sounded :
“The stars and the.starry crown are not yours
alone to offer; and every promise you make I
make also. I offer the good and the bad in-
differently. The lover, the poet, the mystic, and
all who would drink of the first fountain, I delude
with mv mirage. I was the Beatrice who led
Dante upwards: the gloom was in me, and the
glory was mine also, and he went not out of my
cave. The stars and the shining of Heaven were
illusions of the infinite I wove about him. I cap-
tured his soul with the shadow of space; a nutshell
would have t contained the film. I smote on the
dim heart-chords the manifold music of being.
God is sweeter in the human than the human in
God. Therefore, he rested in me.”
She paused a little, and then went on : “There
is that fantastic fellovy who slipped by me. Could
your wisdom not retain him ? He returned to me
full of anguish, and I wound my arms round him
like a fair melancholy ; and now his sadness is as
swedt to him as hope was before his fall. Listen
to his song!” She paused again. A voice came
up from the depths chanting a sad knowledge ;
“ What of all the will to do }
It has vanished long ago,
For a dream-shaft pierced it through
From the Unknown Aroher's boiv.
“ What of all the soul to think l
Some one offered it a cup
Filled-with d diviner drink,
And the flame has burned it up.
“ What of all the hope to climb ?
Only in the self we grope
To the misty end of time,
Truth has put an end to hope.
“ What of all the heart to love ?
Sadder than for will or soul.
No light lured it on above :
Love has found itself the whole.’’ ...
...The Wise One walked to and fro, as before,
and there was silence ; and I saw that with steady
will he pierced the tumultuous gloom of the cave,
and a spirit awoke here and there from its dream.
And I thought I saw that Sad Singer become
filled with a new longing for true being, and that
the illusions .of good and evil fell from him, and
that he came at last to the knees of the Wise One
to learn the supreme truth. In the misty mid-
night I heard these three voices—the Sad Singer,
the Enchantress Lilith, and the Wise,One. From
the Sad Singer I learned that thought of itself
leads nowhere, but blows the perfume from every
flower, and cuts the flower from every tree, and
hews down every tree from the valley, and in the
end goes to and fro in waste places-rgnawing
itself in a last hunger. I learned from Lilith that
we weave our own enchantment, and bind our-
selves with our own imagination. To think of the
true as beyond us, or to love the symbol of being,
is to darken the path to wisdom, and to debar us
from eternal beauty. From the Wise One I
learned that the truest wisdom is to wait, to work,
and to will in secret. Those who are voiceless to-
day, to-morrow shall be eloquent ; and the earth
shall hear them, and her children shall salute
them. Of these three truths, the hardest to learn
is the silent will. Let us seek for the highest
truth.
JOHN HAY
ONE cannot at this distance measure his
statesman’s worth ; and the American
judgment of contemporaries is never
sound. More fortunate than able, some
of his friends and rivals thought him : though
he was able enough, and honest above the multi-
tude. His life was fixed by a chance acquaint-
anceship with Linooln, who called him when aged
twenty to be a private secretary : thence all paths
were flowery till his death the other day at 67. A
kind and genial nature cemented his friendships,
and won him a wealthy wife. “Much too good-
hearted to stay single,” was a New York lady’s
verdict upon him at 35; and she forthwith intro-
duced him to a millionaire’s daughter. With
wife, children, money, personal and literary
popularity, high official preferment (he rose to
be English Minister and was U.S. Secretary of
State when he died), few men would crave for
more. Yet Hay was sentimentalist, idealist, and
minglqd his own melancholy in the happy cup.
Years ago he looked toward the certain end, and
wrote:
My short and happy day it done ;
The long and lonely night comes on,
And at my door the pale horse stands
To carry me to unknown lands.
His whinny shrill, Ms pawing hoof,
Sound dreadful as a gathering storm ;
And I must leave this sheltering roof,
And joys of life so soft and warm.
Tender and warm the joys of life—
Good f riends, the faithful and the true ;
My rosy children and my wife,
So sweet to kiss, so fair to view.
So sweet to kiss, so fair to view :
The night comes on, the lights burn blue :
And at my door the pale horse stands
To bear me forth to unknown lands.
J*
Hay was an Indiana boy, a Hoosier ; and
George Ade was saying recently that every
Hoosier is an author b/ instinct. “We have in
Indiana 22,137 authors, classified as follows:
Historical novelists, 8,903; dialect poets, 6,397;
magazine poets, 1,625; real poets, 430 ; drama-
tists, 1,210 ; syndicate humourists, 674 ; short-story
writers, 3,532..,. Go through :\ny village in the
corn belt on a peaceful summer evening, and you
will hear from out of the vague somewhere a low,
buzzing sound. At first you will think it is the
dynamo of an electric-lighting station. Not so.
It is some sixteen-year-old maiden thinking out a
romance. Next year she will have her picture in
The Bookman unless she is careful.”
John Hay has had his picture in The Bookman
and many other papers : America took kindly to
him, though his work in verse and prose is scarcely
memorable. There are his Poems, his sketches of
Spain, and his life of Lincoln (written with
Nicolay), all tolerable and popular. The verses
run to sentiment :
Sadis the vague and tender dream
'Of dead love’s lingering kisses,
To crushed hearts haloed by the gleam
Of unreturning blisses ; ’
Deep mourns the soul in anguished pride
For the pitiless death that won them —
But the saddest wail is for lips that died
With the virgin dew upon them.
Hay’s “Pike Gounty Ballads,” including “Little
Breeches” and “Jim Bludso,” have won him
more notoriety. The N. Y. Times says that origin-
ally they were written not very seriously, in imita-
tion of Bret Harte—and rather poor imitation,
one thinks. However, they “caught on,” and
“Jim Bludso” (representing an actual history of
steamboat life) has some pith and merit of phrase.
JIM BLUDSO.
Wal, no ! I can’t tell whar he lives,
Because he don’t live, you see ;
Leastways, he's got out of the habit
Of livin’ like you and me.
Whar have you been for the last three years
That you haven’t heard folks tell
How Jimmy Bludso passed-in his checks
The night of the Prairie Belle ?
He were n’t no saint —them engineers
Is all pretty much alike—
One wife in Natchez-under-the-Llill,
And another one here in Bike.
A keerless man in his talk was Jim,
And an awkward man in a row—
But he never funked, and he never lied ;
I reckon he never knowed how.
And this was all the religion he had—
To treat his engines well ; j
Never be passed on the river ;
To mind the pilot’s bell;
And if ever the Prairie Belle took fire,
A thousand times he swore,
He’d hold her nozzle agin the bank
Till the last soul got ashore.
All boats have their day on the Mississip,
And her day come at last.
The Movastar was a better boat,
But the Belle she wouldn’t be passed ;
And so she come tearin’ along that night,—
The oldest craft on the line,
Wjth a nigger squat on her safety-valve,
And her furnace crammed, rosin and pine.
The fire burst out as she cl’ared the bar,
And burnt a hole in the night,
And quick as a flash she turned, and made
To th«r willer-bank o'n the right.
There was runliin’ and cursin’, but Jim yelled out
Over all the infernal roar,
“ I’ll hold'her nozzle agin theJbapk
Till the last galoot’s ashore.”
Through the hot black breath of the burnin’ boat
J im Bludso’s voice was beard,
And they all had trust in his eussedness,
And knowed he would keep his word.
And, sure’s you’re born, they all got off
Afore the smoke-stacks fell, — (
And Bludso’s ghost went up alone 1
In the smoke of the Prairie Belle.
, He were n’t no saint—but at jedgment
I’d run my chance with Jim,
’Longside of some pious gentlemen
That would n’t shook hands with him.
He’d seen his duty, a dead-sure thing— .
And went for it thar and then';
And Christ ain’t a-goin’ to be too hard
On a man that died for men.
A heroic subject in homely language, not
without its reality of emotion .and touch of the
tawdry, the piece deserves its platform celebrity.
SAID THE BOOKSELLER
BOOKS are divided into two classes, new
and second-hand. Selling new books is a
trade ; selling second-hand books is a fine
art. You may call Australian books a
third class, but practically they come under second-
hand. The price of new books is the publisher s
price, in Melbourne and Sydney anyway, with a
proportionate addition for net books. Since the
value is fixed, the only thing you have to do is to
sell them. The way to sell them is to know just
how many customers there are for a particular
book, and who those customers are. In regard to
many books, that means guessing beforehand how
they ’ll sell; and the best guesSer wins. A hook-
seller should really be a literary man. He should
know what’s inside books, and have a general idea
of the quality of authors. As a i;ule he judges by
sale, and puts his London order a little below the
expected sale in order to be on the safe side.
With new books, London opinion and the
literary papers give some help—not very much.
This public is not the English public; and
unknown authors are risky business. A ith new
books by known authors you can calculate pretty
well beforehand. Customers help. A good book-
seller picks his customers’ brains as far as
possible, finds out what they like and why they
like it, and judges by their talk and purchases
whether the author is going up or down.
The thing is to get a book talked about. Buyers
are like sheep, and every body wants to read the
last new sensation. Govt. House patronage is a
great thing too. If you can say that Govt.
House is reading a certain book, all the women
rush to get it, whether they read it or not. And
the newspapers help : you can work them if you
go the right way about it. Most of them know
very little, and will take any opinion you give
them : they are often useful in working off unsale-
able stock. You should give them trifles occa-
sionally ; it’s astonishing what paper* will do
for you when they get something for nothing, and
it pays to givp away an eighteenpenny book for
5 1. worth of advertising space.
&
Second-hand books are a matter of values and
prices. The art, of course, is to buy for next to
nothing and sell for as inuoh as possible. Gene-
rally speaking, buyers are ignorant, They don t
know what a book is worth ; they only know that
they want it. A smart bookseller does not fix his
price with any relation to the price lie has paid.
He fixes it by what he thifiks the public will pay.
You see the dentists advertising complete sets of
teeth for a guinea. Well, if you go to them pos-
sibly you can get a complete set for a guinea, but
!ost people never do ; they buy something better,
ime with bookselling. The art is to get the
3 ople into your shop. Once they are in, they will
iy, and buy at your prices. If they went some-
here else, possibly they could get the same books
>r half the money, but they don’t know that, and
m don’t tell them. Regular book-buyers often
now better : and when you find a man knows as
mch as you do, or nearly as much, you reduce
le price'and make a favour of it. Instead of
earing 200%, be content to clear only 100%, and
ut the buyer under an obligation to come-back
gain. In time you get to know just how many
eople want a particular book. One man buys one
lass of stuff ; another, The more a man
rants a thing the more he will pay for it, and you
x the prices accordingly.
The supply of second-hand books is kept up in
alf-a-dozen ways. Some you buy cheap from
jondon catalogues, some are brought m small
larcels, and occasionally you get an offer of a
ibrary. Of course the way to get value for a
ibrary is to put it up at auction, and have book-
ellers and the public competing to give the value
,f the books ; but few people know that. If you
mid a cheque before their eyes, and offer to
emove the stuff without any trouble to them, you
latch nine out of ten.
Some people dislike the publicity of an
motion sale. They don't like it to be known
;hev are selling their books, and we get
he advantage of that. Others come to us.because
;hey have been used to. That’s reputation and
id v erti semen t. They don’t stop to think that it
;hev got tenders from three of four booksellers,
md put one against the other, they would naturally
mt better prices. So you buy for a song, and you
idl for sovereigns. Lots of people will collect a
Few hundred'books, and treasure them till they
lie. Then the widow doesn't know anything
ibout books, and the family have other tastes,
and perhaps the home is broken up, and the
books are in the way. So you get the otter,
and do the business. People that don t read,
don’t know the vain? of books. A fair price
under such circumstances is. 25% of what we can
sell for. Competing with other booksellers we
might give 50%, and at auction we might go as
high as 75% of value. But once we get wind of a
thing, few people in need of money are able to
resist the handy cheque and the assurance of no
trouble.
Jt
Second-hand books have been cheap lately too
cheap for a bookseller’s notion. It spoils the
market, and too many peopld are getting to know
the real value of them. But, as-1 say, most people
are flats : lucky for us ! Then there’s the law of
laziness to reckon with. Lots of people don t like
to go into a dirty shop and turn over the stock to
get a bargain. Lots more get into a regular habit
\yith one shop, and never think of turning aside
to save money. That* is the habit we try to
encourage. If you manage it well, there is money
in book-selling, provided you know all about book-
buying. What we want is more collectors : people
that will buy anything in a particular line that is
put befofe them'. Those will come in time, I dare
sav. In the meantime, well, we earn our little
crust. ‘ ■ ’ , y<""'
The Arr/onaut says that A. E. Housman. who
is a Latin'prof, in University College, London, consis-
tently refuses payment for his verses, . and actually
returned a cheque sent by an American magazine. And
Housman’s verses are worth payment.
MEMORANDA
King Edward has conferred “the Order of
Merit ” (the mystic OM) upon Alma Tadema,
Holman Hunt, and Meredith. Who cares. If
Royalty set out to discover obscure merit and ele-
vate it to rightful rank, there would be in
patronage. Rut to wait till the race .is over, the
victor crowned, and then shuffle up with superero-
gatory endorsement... how royally futile !
Meredith has lived a strenuous and laborious
life ; and his mental faculties, as shown by recent
instances, have not wholly survived the strain of
years. Of his loss of judgment a hint came when
he revised his novels in 181)7, and generally altered
them for the worse. An Academy contributor urges
that even the 1885 edition of Richard Fcverel was
changed for the worse from the three-volume
edition of 1859 ; and at least makes out a case for
reply.
Laurence Hutton tells a story of how Joaquin
Miller, when in London, was welcomed by tewin-
burne, and one day offered to introduce a. friend
to the poet. “ Joaquin Miller and Friend was
on the card sent in. After some delay the
servant returned with a message she “ did not like
to deliver.” This,-with some persuasion, was got
out of her, and it was to the effect that ' Mr. Swin-
burne Would be very glad to see Mr. Miller, but
his ‘ friend ’ ‘might go to hell!” Swinburne, of
|''''".rse, hasn’t got the Oidef of Merit; but at
it this response deserves the Order of I)-ment.
'here is some point in these “ Distiches, by
in Hay :
ely a woman prefers to a lover a man who neglects
3 one may love her some day ; some day the lover will
not. <»
:re are three species of creatures who when they seem
coming'are going; _. , ,
en they seem going they come : Diplomats, women,
and crabs.
the meek beasts in the Garden came flocking for Adam
to name them,
n for a title to-day crawl to the feet of a king.
lat is a first love worth except to prepare for a second ?
tat does the second love bring? Only regret for the
first.
A. B. Walkley says G. B. Shaw is no flesh-
irrter : his Flesh is merely an intellectual eate-
ry. The 19th chapter of Matthew has a pro-
and remark on this subject. Does a chaste
bit of body induce vegetarianism ?. or does
getarianism induce a chaste habit of mind.
“ Ernest Renan, by William Barry, D.D.” (say 3
ie Times neatly) “is a Life of a f reethinker
-itten by a Roman Catholic priest for a series of
terary Lives edited by a Presbyterian Divine,
td published for the general reader without
owed reference to his religious views.
In The New Idea Miles Franklin commences an
:count of experience as hospital nurse. She in-
rms readers that she is sft. lin. tall, her lungs
e leather, and she never wears tight things. She
id four defective teeth when she went to the
is pita 1, of which two were extracted and two
opped. The doctor who “ passed ” her had dark
res (with which he spotted the defective teeth),
le features, and a black moustache. (That black
oustache looks promising for the’sequel).
No doubt that Carruthers Gould is the Eng.
irtoonist of to-day. Linley Sambourne’s wooden
immentaries in Punch are paunched effigies of
leas, Gogs and Magogs that stand for British
solidity and naught beyond.. Technically Gould s
icturcs are mere hieroglyphics ; but what admir-
ble hieroglyphics ! How they touch the spot, and
ow gaily ! The character of his subjects, too : it
i not pose or convention, it s the inner man
aught fleeing and pinned dovvn. A picture of
laliour blowing petals in the air and meditating
he end of office (“ This year—next year—some-
inie—never!”) joins with half-a-dozen recent
lictures to move inertia to such praise.
At Lond. Huth sale, reports The Athencevm , ‘‘- a
irst state, before any letters, of T. Watson’s
aezzotint after Reynolds’s Lady Bampfylde
etched 1260/,., the highest price ever realised at
.uction for a mezzotint.”
D. Lesueur, writer of the last Parisian sensa-
ional novel, arranges his duel to meet the times.
Husband and lover fight it out on racing automo-
biles, while the guilty wife looks on. When the
:ars rush together at a bridge, the smash is just
is fatal as an old-fashioned weapon could make it.
‘ Automobiles and coffee for two ! ”
E. Faguet’s new series of Propos LitUraires
nves a current valuation of Zola. This man
was a kind of barbaric poet, a Hugo vulgar and
vet powerful; an awkward, robust creator who
kneaded eternal matter into breathing, grimacing
shapes; a strange gnome of a species midway
oetween Prometheus and Caliban.’
The third and final volume of H. Houssaye’s
1815 has just been published for collectors of
Napoleonic literature. It is made quite clear that
after Waterloo N. had a dozen chances of getting
away to America, where he might have lived com-
fortably enough. But he wanted (like every
other actor) to close with “tm beau geste, a
last pose of dignity to dazzle future historians.
Hence his dramatic surrender. Houssaye’s moral,
considering the marvellous recovery of France
after the peace, is that one can never despair of a
people which for ten centuries has gone from
resurrection to resurrection.
The libel-quarrel between Hobart journalists
Wood and Morton settles itself by Morton’s
departure to till a staff-place with Otago Daily
Times, Dunedin; thus taking the better part.
For, as Dr. Watts says, journalists should always
sue the public enemy, and not one another :
0, ’t is a Shameful Sight
When children of one family
Fall out. and chide and fight !
By the way, Watts's Works in 6 vols. quarto,
leather, weighing were sold by a., Sydney
bookseller recently for 4d. a vol. ThA. buyer
complained that the price was; too high for old
sermons. ■
[?]U.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
w[ t| SYDNEY.
FUR
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS' PRODUCE. ~W*
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDNEY.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls fitted with Best Qualiry.
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
Ft XT GBY OFt
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “Royal” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/0.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “Rivals Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion/’ Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,’’Association Match only, 15/-,
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY. 8. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 3
* ; 5
•» ” » f ” ? o
1) I, ,1 * •• •• •• •• 1* * 8
~ „ Match II 5 0
ASSOCIATION. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 6
» » •> l 3 3
.. » » ? ~3 9
~ ~ „ i „ 4 6
~ ~ Match 111 5 0
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality.. ~ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each.
No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported).
Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
s. d.
each
No. 1
1 10
No. 6
„ 6, Association only
„ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—-Shin Guards.
Stout Twill, with tapes
Stout Twill, straps and buckles
Basil, leather straps and buckles
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps
Gold Cape, straps and buckles
8. d.
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads
Same as above, larger size
4 0
5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS— Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s od, 3s 6d, is 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS —White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS—EIen’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
b«KV HaNBICA* $TANbAftb ASCOT
3'6 n;_ 7/3 7JB
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. l'2s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’B RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 16s 6d set
IV Illustrated Sports, Fishing: Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
W\i
14
5 10
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/6
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder—
-7s 6d, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
SPECIAL REDUCTION
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling Price
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY.
THE MAINE
Pifie
Apart.
The Celebrated “ Maine ” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges. Weight, 2slb.
PRICE 12/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
Gun Cartridges.
per ]
6s
6s
6s
6s
8s
10s
11s 9(1
11s Od
SS S 2 3 S S
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
m 22 Short
22 Long
22 Long Rifle ..
22 Extra Long
*sloo $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
-> b B L Gun. 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Twist or Steel Barrels, .Greener Cross. Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap toie-ena,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
„ H the RELIABLE” D.8.8.D. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
H ton le"f genuine Damascus or*‘Siemen’s” steel barrels, both choke, side
gauge, top > S , . ui t ex tended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
lock action, safety
ALL n SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
£l2 12s
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight
£5
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ..
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” RifEe
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. -| 5s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F.,
barrel, weight 3£lb
20in.
18
16 6
remittance and freight must accompany order.
MICK SIMMONS,
ney.


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Oorner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
■ ‘ and Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
SINGLE BOOM: For One Guest, 2/6 per day, or 15/- per week.
DOUBLE BOOM : For Two Guests, 6/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF.
SINGLE BOOM: For one Guest (with Full Board), 6/- per day, or 30/- per week.
DOUBLE BOOM : For Two Guests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or £3 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance : MARKET STREETSYDNEY .
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
High in quality, yet moderate in price. Win-
chester “New Rival” Shotgun Cartridges,
loaded with Black Powder are in a class by
themselves, price considered. They are manu-
factured with the same care and skill which
has made the name “Winchester” synonom-
ous with reliability and accuracy. Sportsmen
the world over use them. A trial will con-
vince you that they are the very best made.
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM
'•.i
-
2s*
HJ
Or
QC
CO
Sm-J
LU
LU
Q
DC
O
Or
KM
<1
Wih
2
«>'v* :’«
«
O
ON
nu
r~
<1
r"
ip
WORN
BY
ROYALTY.
Prevent worn-down heels and unshapely boots. Make one pair of boots
wear as long as two. Reduce fatigue, give grace to the walk and make
eveiy step a pleasure.
Obtainable retail from all Storekeepers and Boot Stores throughout the States.
Wholesale only from D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Kalgoorlie, Launceston, Townsville, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane, Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers oj the Wood-Milne Heels- REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. salt;
The effect of Eno’s 1 Fruit Salt * on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’B ' FRUIT SALT* Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT * WORKS. LONDON. BNQ.,
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, die., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, special^
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Dost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s.
Weak Women
His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing: Powders 6s
HQad Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALQOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. mans peter rasmussen.
A GOOD
REPORT
From Camperdown.
The Case of
Mr. E, J. SWORDS.
(By a Special Reporter.)
A condition of affairs favourable to
all sorts of ailments that had been in
existence a good while received an ef-
fective check, in connection with which
a newspaper man paid a visit of en-
quiry to Mr. Edward John Swords’
business premises, 150 Missenden-road,
Camperdown, and received the follow-
ing reply
“Yes,” said Mr. Swords, “lean eas-
ily tell you all that is of importance
in connection with the illness I escap-
ed from in 1890, when 1 was living at
Trang-ie, on the great-western line —a
very hot place, too/'
“How long were you residing there?’’
“Three years. Quito long enough to
ascertain that it was principally the
heat which was knocking me out, with
the sedentary nature of my trade,
which is that of a saddler. 1 got to
feel so much out of sorts that 1 could
not stand being indoors, so 1 had to
leave my work and go travelling. The
change seemed to give me a lift for a
while, but it was not long before 1 got
into my old state again, and as time
wore on my health went from bad to
worse. When 1 got up of a morning 1
felt fearfully languid, and 1 pictured
each day as it started as a long,
dreary term that would never end, and
how I would get through it I did not
know. But even when they terminated
1 .was no better off, as nightfall only
meant so much restlessness that I did
not know what to do to put in the
time till morning, and when it arrived
and 1 had to get up, I felt so weak
and low-spirited that I did not care
what happened. My internal disorders
caused such a bitter taste to come to
my mouth that on arising I often felt
inclined to retch, but 1 couldn’t, and 1
was never prepared to sit down and
eat a breakfast like a man should do.
As soon as I sat to the table, and the
food came in sight, a sickly sensation
came to mv stomach, and 1 would
have to get up and leave everything
untouched, but, later in tho day, I was
generally more successful in eating a
little —very little, because my appetite
was weak—but it didn’t make any dif-
ference, as my digestion was gone al-
together/'
“What wore your feelings like when
you had eaten ?"
“Dreadful ! I can hardly describe
them. My chest had such a sensation
in it that I. don’t know what to say.
1 know 1 felt that if I turned round
quiciviy it would break in two, and the
way I sometimes had to gasp for
breath would have made you think I
was asthmatical. Then I also suffered
from cramps in the stomach, caused,
no doubt, by wind that gathered there
from the decayed food, and if 1 had to
go through the same again, I would
much rather die. Many a time I ac-
tually sang out with pain, which also
used to find its way down my right
side, and almost cripple me.
knows, I was a martyr !”
“Did you find your weight reduced
at all ?”
“I fell away terribly—from eleven
stone four pounds down to about ten
stone. Just merely a skeleton of what
1 had been ; and what made me feel my
afflictions so greatly was hardly beino-
able to move without feeling incon-
venience. 1 have done a good deal of
rough riding in my time, and used to
enjoy it, but when I was ill, I couldn’t
get on the quietest animal living with-
out the motion hurting me, for, be-
sides what I’ve told you, I had such
intense pain across my back that 1 was
compelled to walk bent up like an old
man."
‘‘How long were you ailing like this?"
nor fully twelve months-, and you
had better believe that during that
1 did not Continue Buffering* for
the want of taking physic—no, indeed.
1 took a great many bottles of medi-
cines, only, I’m sorry to say, to find
that my money had gone for nothing,
in some instances, to bo made worse
than 1 was before. There was one lot
of advertised pills I took which made
me feel that I was going to die, I folt
so ill, and after them, thank heaven ! I
procured some Clements Tonic. Ah !
how I soon wished I had taken that
remedy before. What a year of tor-
ture it would have saved me, but it is
no use regretting. I’m lucky to havo
Sot off like I did, and tnero is no
oubt that Clements Tonic is entitled
to all the credit, for that was the only
remfdy' that could do me any good.
Why, if you could form an idea of the
intensity of the headaches from which
I regularly suffered you would say that
nothing but a miracle could have
cured them, and if that’s so then Cle-
ments Tonic must be a miraculous me-
dicine, for it cured mine. Besides this
it also put an end to the giddy turns
I used to have. Upon my word, at one
time I could not stoop down without
feeling as if I would surely fall over,
and I have often been sitting on a
chair and. expecting, to come a cropper
every second owing to the same dis-
agreeable sensation. My sight had
been very dim for a good while, my
eyes feeling swollen, and as if they had
a scum over them ; my tongue used to
be white with fur, too, yet Clements
Tonic sot all these defects to rights,
even when all other things had oeen
put aside as useless.”
‘‘You mentioned that you had done
some rough-riding in your time. You
require good nerves for that sort of
business, don’t you ?”
“I should rather say so ; but I had
been without them for quite twelve
months previous to using Clements
Tonic, and would never have had good
nerves again but for that remedy. I
had not only been so nervous that I
could not keep myself from shaking,
but even my mind was easily upset by
any noises, which made me exceeding-
ly irritable, and I was always fearing
some lend of evil. The greater part o*f
my nights were spent in restlessness,
for I was always thinking, thinking,
and when at last I dozed into slum-
ber, the dreams I had were awful—for
all the world like the nightmare. Well, it
was a happy day for me when I de-
cided to buy Cloments Tonic, as it put
quite a different complexion upon the
whole of my career. It imparted more
strength to my nerves than they over
had before, and there’s nothing in the
world like that remedy to make one
sleep and eat. In a few weeks I
couldn’t locate a pain of any sort
about my body, and the best of it was
that I was gaining strength and
weight all the time.”
‘‘Did Clements Tonic cure you tho-
roughly ?”
‘‘Mv cure couldn’t have been more
complete, arid I trust my experience
may. be an object lesson to all who
require treatment. In any case you
may publish this narrative in any form
you desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDWARD JOHN SWORDS, of No. 150 Mis-
senden Road, Campcrdown, In the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that 1 have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ins' of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving anv payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown this
fifth day of September, one thousand nine
hundred aDd four, before me,
E. BARNES, J.P.
LADIES
Watches
Birtligiay
®. GENT.’S
© Chains
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets— FßEE.
A solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs
from to io. Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Klee tine
Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box—a grand
remedy and cure for all impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
ders, a tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills.
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand
a fine Watell and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. P You
take no risk. Elective Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A Few Remarks from the Department of Public Health.
on T , . , , . Head Office, Wellington, N.Z., U>th May, 1005.
„_ T Gentlemen,—l i lav f t 0 acknowl edge receipt of your formulae of "Ulectine Kidney Bean.’*
NewUfe, Blood Tonic and Nerve Pill,” “ Klectine Little Liver Granules” and "Klecdne Coid
and Headache 1 ablets. lam glad to see that you are not ashamed to put your formulae on
the outside of each hox. I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant
The Blectme Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W. Da. J. W. MASON, Chief Health Officer.
rftt
s*
f
ss


rv
Beautiful hair! Long, rich,
heavy hair! Soft and silky
hair! "Ho roughness, no splitting at
the ends! Have you such hair? If
not, would you like it ?
Ayer's Hair Vigor
Is a Hair Food.
It feeds the hair, makes the hair
grow, keeps it soft and beautiful.
For sixty years Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has given perfect satisfaction to thou-
sands of people in all parts of the
world. Give it a fair trial and we are
sure it will satisfy you.
If your hair is turning gray and
you wish all the deep, rich color of
earlier life restored to it, use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., LoweM, Mui.,o. S. A.
Purveyors by
Royal Warrant
To His Majesty
The King.
If you require a treat, use
“MOIR’S”
PURE PICKLES
They are absolutely
perfect.
An Inexpensive Table Delicacy
“ MOIR’S ”
Soup Squares
Rich Soup made in a
few minutes. Try some.
JOHN HOIB AND SON, Limited.
BYONEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
MARTIN'S
FILLS
JL Safe Medicine for Ladies.
The reason is they are purely a vegetable
composition, and expressly suited to the con- <
stitution and requirements of women. _ This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow their use. Thousands say they
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify the complexion, no
headache, ne pain, no flushing, no giddiness,
no anxiety. They make work a pleasure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price &-■ Sold everywhere. Sole
proprietor, MARTIN , Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton , England.
Ladies who wish to
shine ■=
will not neglect to use
for their boots and shoes
HAVTHAWAY’S
Peerless
Gloss
which puts such a beautiful shine upon
shoe-leather that it makes it dazzlingly
bright. There is no mistake about it.
The instant it is applied the brilliance comes
and nothing but mud or ill-usage can drive
it away. It softens and preserves the
leather, presents an elegantly smooth
surface, and sets a foot off to the very best
advantage. If you have not already tried it
do so at once and be agreeably surprised.
Sold at all Shoe Stores
and by dealers everywhere.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congress Street,
Boston, Mass. U.S.A.
A.
POLICY fob thk COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bd.
“For
30 Years
I have used Bonnikgton’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of s lies will not sell a remedy if it is nob
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care«
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“ BONNINGTON’S.”
Protect your Darling
Babe from Childhood’s infectious diseases
by washing him with
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap.
THE NURSERY SOAP.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works 8 Birminffhamj Eng-iand,
These series ofr
Pens neither scratch
npr spurt. They glide
i over the roughest
I paper with the ease
I of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box-
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST
BOURKE ST.,
SWANSTON ST.,
j^^fIELBOURNE.
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
No. 271 H.
Special
Gentlemen's
"Zephyr” Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 H.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will he mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d.
Robert Hurst
MELBOURNE, all . . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alice.
Across the waters, sweet and clear,
A man is singing on the pier—
Is singing, “ Alice, where art thou ?”
1 wonder, too, where she is now :
The dark-browed girl I used to know,
My Alice of the long ago.
The girl of whom the singer wails
Is some slim maiden, saintly, white ;
Some pale-faced girl who never fails
To set her feet in paths of right.
We see the halo round her brow;
Among the stars he seeks her now,
“ Oh ! Alice, Alice, where art thou ? ”
No halo could my Alice wear,
Only that crown of dusky hair—
An earthly woman, strong and fair.
Oh ! sweet-voiced singer on the pier,
As I stand idly listening here
I wonder if you ever knew
A love as real, a heart as true,
As wayward Alice gave to me
In one short summer by the sea.
How close her arms were wont to cling,
The hour’s delight of my grey life.
No white-robed girl of whom to sing,
Fond woman, queen, but never wife.
To a lone township in the north .
My wingbd thoughts to-night fly forth,
Half-urged by sorrow, half by wrath.
Against a chain that galls me now,
Against a kiss that broke a vow—
Oh ! Alice, Alice, where art thou ?
Q.
M. FORREST.
Life.
What is this life they speak of, can you tell me,
seers and sages ?
This life that seems so dear to all, yet understood
by none,
It has puzzled wiser men than you in murk of
bygone ages—
It never will be understood while earth goes round
the sun.
Our knowledge small of life consists of salt tears
and of laughter,
Of pain and pleasure, want and grief, of joy and
misery;
A line of cabs, a wreath of flowers ; some nodding
plumes come after;
A mound of earth, a granite stone, and then—
more mystery.
VIC.
C. CRAWFORD.
Hebe Ever Young.
Old age has gone out of fashion for women.—Axexehi
in The Bulletin.
The sweet old dames with silver h vir,
And gentle ways and modest looks,
And foreheads lined by Time and Care,
Where are they now ? They live in books.
In this strange age, absurd and vain,
A girl may well go out alone.
’Tis Quis custodiet ? again—
For who will guard the chaperone ?
These ladies walking up the hall
With glinting eyes and jaunty airs,
Who are they in the world at all ?
Dear sir, they are the dowagers.
Why not ? No woman has a cause
To look old. Earth’s no hermitage ;
Helen of Troy no chicken was,
And Cleopatra was of age.
This surely is the Age of Gold
By ancient prophet-poets sung,
When men grow grey, and bald, and old
And Women are for ever young.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
Where Peris Dwell.
I would dwell where Peris hold
Revel high, a careless band ;
Where the mystic nights unfold
All the joys of Fairyland.
Where the moon comes calm with splendor
Of a light subdued and tender —
Glorious and divine;
Lovelier than the light that gleams
Radiant in a dream of dreams.
I would dwell ’twixt Heaven and Earth,
Where the joyous Peris keep
Night aglow with song and mirth,
While world-wearied mortals sleep,
And, in dreams to men, come ringing
Echoes of a wondrous singing
Down the laden air—
Half-heard echoes that must die
Ere the sun’s swords smite the sky.
I would dwell where Peris glance
Soft, sweet looks of love sublime.
Where nor Destiny nor Chance
Comes to plague the years of Time.
Where, with shadows robed and shrouded,
Under sapphire skies unclouded,
Star-lit nights and calm,
Fairies sweep, on pinions bright,
Here and thither through the night.
Couched ’midst bloom of fragrant flowers,
I would rest, where Peris rest,
Through the glamor of the hours
Soothed to slumber on her breast,
Whose soft flowing golden tresses,
Whose love-laden light caresses,
Sweet from ruby lips,
Thrill and fill with ecstasy
All the leaping heart of me.
Where the night-tide reigns supreme,
Dim, serene, with love imbued,
I would lie, as in a dream,
Wrapt in love, by love subdued;
Where no dawn of desolation
Creeps to break the exaltation
Of the peerless dark.
Bound beneath their subtle spell,
I would dwell where Peris dwell.
N.B.W.
EDGAR HEANE.


ROThjerhams
ENGLISH WATCHES.
oN£
v2S$
m
f£j
(da
/
S'
sold by all
WHO-CAN-SHOW-
Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CHAtOGUES
0
E R Y OU S N E S sTf
3 I*oBB of ENERGY and STRENGTH, f
| DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY. t
1 M. Gentleman having tried In vain every P
j advertised remedy, and at last dis- &
2 covered a SIMPLE MEANS ol SELF E
3 CURB, will forward the same, free of C
L Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY, J
POLICY fob thb COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Enf/nes 6 Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &o.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
The UniYersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSi
MAGNESIA]
The Physician’S
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safeit and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnaney.
<#> JV
# <ss*
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ”cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
r,#
&
&
$
<$
S>
IS IT POSSIBLE FOR MEN AND HORSES TO COMPETE WITH STEAM POWER ?
Isn’t it obvious that any farmer who makes the largest possible use of steam power will do a given amount of work
at lower cost than his neighbour using men and horses for the same work?
Do YOU want to reduce the cost of your farming operations and increase your profits?
Shall we send you. our Buffalo Engine and Thresher Catalogue SHOWING YOU HOW TO DO IT?
We sold 22 of them last month —there must be some reason for it —perhaps it’s a good enough one to interest you.
Our easy terms will be a surprise to you—they are so easy that, bar a small first payment, the engine PAYS FOR ITSELF.
Send for catalogue NOW, so as to get engine in time for coming season."^sB®!
OUR ENGINE GANG
DISC PLOUGHS
are savers of money
and labour.
International Harvester Company of America
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, & LAUNCESTON.
WILL EXHIBIT AT
SYDNEY
SHEEP SHOW.
LIST OF
BOOK OF NATURE and Id-
LUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50engravings,new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, Is 6d How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Bald heads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, 1/3. Dog Keeping, 1/3. A Shanty Enter-
tainment, Is; post,ls 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, 6d.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d.
Macfadden’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
of Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tameron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. God and My Neighbor, 9d.
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, la. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, d.ynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise. Is 6d. Stolen Sweets. Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter. Writer,
Is. Photography, Is, Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 16s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1; Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2; Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETB)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
Jr INSTANTI RELIEfT^W
f POWELL’sX
fßalsam^Aniseem
Fop
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
Safe for Children.
TRADE
MARK
O*
ANISE***
Of all Chemists & Stores. Be «i
u (jet Powell’s with above
Trade Mark.
sure
THE BALLET GIEL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
P«it Free, la
The Life, Adventures
and Confeiesioru of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Pait Fro#, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price, complete with 4 mo n ths’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
Thm Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdkstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman's NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizks, 9d. dc Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb & Tkuman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin— There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs— lt is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can he had
from Secondhand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and wha*- you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S
i Eng.
|29 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN ai-d
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYZDHSTIE'X'-


r Perspiration and Dust, 1
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
j weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
P. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
200
EARN A CYOtE
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
la allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money In full refunded without qur ation
If not perfectly satiafactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODEM £2mtO to £6
Eadie <
idie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
C lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Him
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
to £2.10
Great factory clearance saje at half factory price*.
taking orders from sample
_ __ machine. Active Agents
wanted ip each district. Large profits easily ir ade. Write at once for
ires catalogues and our speem/ n Jf er, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, <fcc., half price*-
MEAD CYCLE GO - Dep‘. *39
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
SOME BOOKS T SIR ROBERT!
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromes. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, at'..-.u-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing. Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO I eats.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
WE CURE PAIN!
V.
miwU""'
THE DR. AUSTIN ELECTRIC BELT is
the only never-failing cure for Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Weak Back or Kidneys, Nervousness,
Liver, Bladder and Stomach Troubles, Pains in
the Head, and all those ailments from which men
and women suffer. It cures after all other reme-
dies have failed.
We don’t ask anyone to take chances on
our Invention.
It doesn’t cost you anything if we fail.
All you lose is your time, and if our belt fails to
cure, you will have the satisfaction of knowing
that the best, strongest, and finest electric body
appliances in the world —ONE WITH 50,000
CURES TO ITS CREDIT—has failed, and that
there is no cure for you in electricity.
Remember, our terms are—
PAY WHEN CURED.
FREE DIAGNOSIS.—We do not charge for advice written or personal.
FREE BOOK. —Write for our beautifully illustrated Medical Book and Letter* from
cured Patients, sent sealed, FREE. Write to-day.
The Dr, Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept, w.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
QJJD
IpßßwajLgFgHg
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will forward Fre & 24 Packets of our
“ Enamel Tooth Powder,” and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominal price of 6d each, and
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free. The continued systematic use of this
Powder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth,
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard and healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the Breath.
We don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders, and tve will at
once forward you Free any prize you may select from the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we send with the powders. This offer, made for a
limited period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
made by a Reliable Firm. Remember, our Prizes are not Rolled Gold, Gold Filled,
or Gold Pattern, but
(hall marked.) SOLID GOLD « (guaranteed.)
Write to-day:
Free.
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
BK PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL IYB TROUBLES,
NEVER EAIUS.
Aalc your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
MEN’S DISEASES.
Private, Nervous, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most successful
Specialist. Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physician in Australasia.
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief ; but men who are weak
and despondent require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cure*
are effected daily by Dr. W. Carter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
Sydney Institute of
Medicine & Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous . drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personally in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
by a forfeit of £250, and testimonials of hundreds of cured patients, not only in Sydney, but from every
town and village in Australasia. He invites you to call and have a confidential chat about your trouble. a
thorough examination and consultation will cost you nothing, and he will explain his methods of ma g
weak and diseased men Strong, Healthy and Vigorous. It may be that you have b ee fi_U-nsuccessfully tr t
by numerous practitioners. That is not evidence that you are incurable. It means that the treatment w .
administered unskilfully. DR. WATSON offers you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as it has
made of others.
Home Cures by MaiL
DR. WATSON cures a great many patients every year
without seeing them. This system of treatment is a
special and scientifically managed Department. If
you cannot call, write at once for a diagnosis blank which covers every symptom. Your case can he
diagnosed as minutely and treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview. His great
w°r\, “MALADIES OF" MA-NKIND,"
is sent FREE to any address on receipt of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This large valuable work
contains 53 profusely-illustrated chapters on the functions of the human body, and proper y- pp
Electricity as an adjunct to medicine.
FREE ADVICE.
REMEDIES
(including jp-fl
Carriage), oft I ■
Or. W. Carter Watson, M.D-,
Chief Physician and Surgeon
SYDNEY INSTITUTE of MEDICINE AND ELECTRICITY,
78 & 80 3E3Lunter-st., Sydney
Etc.,
Etc.,
HOURS —
10 to 5 Dally.
Evenings, 7 to 9
Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday.
thb
THR
n ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any Other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
vT like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edffe that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 70> 0«L
«• RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Prig*
f Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 1®«. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21ft
\ Single Razor, in Irory Handle, 165.; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 300*
XtRGISTRRED AND S|SNT POST FR*B TO ANT PART OF THB WORLD.
Please add 6d, exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheque*.
soIaCRAIQ & AITKEN, 654 Qeorge-st.,
Sydney*
- -
New Zealand Loan « mercantile Agency Go.
I>td.
S "ST 13 3NT 353 Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Coniigameats of SHEEPSKINS. HIDES, TALLOW, &»d MARSUPIAL
SKINS or* carefully attended to by our staff of highly effloient EXPERTS, who pay apaoial
attention to weighing, elaaaing and disposing to Tory beat advantage, Account Sale* rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities aro otaereo by thio Company to WHEAT grower* for free (storage of
their grain. Full partioulare will bo furniehed on application.


PLEASURE# PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators,
'T'HESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
■* a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, AGEN I S ’
241-243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne.
THE
CBOSVENOB HOTEL
SYDNEY.
This most comfortable Family and Com-
mercial Hotel has recently undergone a
thorough renovation, and is noio quite
up-to-date, under the personal supervision
of .. .
MRS. WM. GANNON,
Proprietress.
THIS BOOK
IS FREE.
The Mysteries of Hypnotism
and Personal Magnetism
Revealed.
The New York Institute of Science, of
Rochester, New York, has just published a
remarkable book on Hypnotism, Personal Mag-
netism, and Magnetic Healing. It is by far the
most wonderful and comprehensive treatise of the
kind ever, printed. The Directors have decided,
for a limited time, to give a free copy to each
person sincerely interested in these wonderful
sciences. It is the result of the combined effort
of twenty of the most famous hypnotic specialists
in the world. You can now learn the secrets of
Hypnotism and Personal Magnetism at your own
home, free.
/
Mil//
Sv
%
(^MAGNETISM
\\HYPNOTISM
j
I- _ „s x
SCIENT!
/TREATISE
A.
r
3THEPHILOSOPHYQF?
THE SECRET OF POWER. THE SCIENCE OF HEALTH
LIFES MYSTERIES UNVEILED.
-NEW YORK INSTITUTE OFSCIENCE,ROCHESTER.NY. I
J
Hypnotism strengthens your memory and de-
velops a will of iron. It overcomes bashfulness,
revives hope, stimulates ambition and determina-
tion to succeed, and gives you that self-confidence
which enables you to convince people of your real
worth. It gives you the key to the inner secrets
of mind control. It enables you to absolutely
control the thoughts and actions of whomsoever
you will. When you understand this grand and
mysterious science, you can plant suggestions in
human minds which will be carried out in a day
or even a year hence. You can cure bad habits
and diseases in yourself or others.
You can cure yourself of insomnia, nervousness,
and business or domestic worry.
You can instantaneously hypnotise people with
a mere glance of the eye, without their knowledge,
and powerfully influence them to do as you desire!
You can develop to a marvellous degree any musi-
cal or dramatic talent you may have j you can in-
crease your salary; you can develop your telepathic
or clairvoyant power; you can give thrilling and
funny hypnotic entertainments ; you can win the
love and everlasting friendship of those you desire •
you can protect yourself against the influence of
others; you can become a financial success, and be
recognised as a power in your community.
The New York institute guarantees to teach
you the secret of attaining all these things. It is
the largest and most successful school °o'f Hyp-
notism in the world. It is chartered by the State
laws, and carries out every promise faithfully.
If you want a copy of its free book, just send your
name and address on a lid. post card—no money—
to the New Institute of Science, Department 22H
Rochester, New York, U.S.A., and you will
receive it by return mail, post paid.
THE
DEAF
HEAR
By using the Wilson Cora-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
| tressing head noises write
| for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co..
229-231 Collins-gt., Melb.
4fc
»»
The “ Crackajack” illustrated below presents not only the very latest tmpr
but Is unquestionably the beat and most beautiful toned Mouth Organ made
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. Theframes
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the reid plates are solid
brats, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone Is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
In volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through-
out the entire
register Is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass, \
heavily plated and
artistically engrav- \
ed. It It impossible \
to fully describe these '
Instruments end their
musical qualities
Mouth Organs
'
jmm
i&V- ;o»v-.;
Jm,
m
W&M
■
They must be teen
and used to be
appreciated. W*
can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
C**'
.c* 1
,c*
p*<>
,6'°’
A,O
Posted to art
ADDRESS IN THE
WORLD TOR 40.
EXTRA.
Made In Feur Style#
No. I Grackalack Professional, 40 Reeds
No. 2 Grackalack Senior, 20 Reeds •
No. 3 Grackalack Junior, 20 Reeds • 1/6.
No. 4 Boss Cracker • • • 1/-
CO CM
ALLAN & CO., 276-278 Collins 5t., Melbourne.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
is ■
■L-ssss-r
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
THE ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
IT is well known that the climate of Sydney is delightful in winter, but it is not so well known
that the Blue Mountain air is best of all—crisp, bracing atmosphere, sometimes frosty
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
is a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor; baths and
massage; most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required ; an entertainer for general
amusement; a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU;
GO, IF YOU WANT A SPELL; or
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe? Plenty of you
business-men are making money at the expense of your health. Spend a little on your health as
a good investment.
TERMS—From £2 2s. upwards.
<& S
160 Ktrss-Pewer Electric Plant, operating- at
Th* Cathoart Proprietary Cold Mine, Ararat, Victoria.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power „„„
Traction Plants.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
The Austral Otis
Engineering Go
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne.
LTD.
► «l
m f J:
The basis of which is " Montserrat’ Lime-Fruit Juice.
The Best a.nd Cheapest Sauce.
AG£W7S-Elllott Bros. Ltd., J. Connell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
; ..
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
62-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MI 1)1)0WS BROS.,
A.M. P. Building-, Perth
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless oiks.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Macniven & Cameron’s Peno
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Bold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separatt'y examined bv experienced hands,
end any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
The London Treatment
FOB THE CUBE OF
ALCOHOLISM and NARCOTISM.
THIS is a GENUINE Up-to-date and
PERMANENT CURE for the Exc-essi ve
Use of Drugs, and Drink Habit. This is the
latest and most satisfactory treatment that has
ever been placed before the public of Austra-
lasia, and is in no way connected with the
so-called Gold Cure. Pamphlet containing
full particulars will be sent post free.
Address : H. W. BUTTREY,
Ho.tib Bush, Masterton, U.Z.
(P.O. Box 121, Masterton, N.Z.)
Don't
waste tune in
‘ experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
f best proof of the claim of
!{M)Tidge
I” £ungTontc
[to be the WORLD'S CUREI
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It canbiob’iainsd from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
For indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
A flays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA,
'WTgy’ANTED, in Good Condition, Copies of
Bulletin for months of June and
September, 1900.
A.8.C., c/o Bulletin,


NINETY PER CENT.
1
Of the general public are interested to a greater or less
extent in Photography, and it is important that every-
one should know that the surest and simplest method
of getting really good pictures is by
USING A KODAK
Prices from 6s. Upwards.
All Patterns of KODAKS, all Sizes of KODAK N=C
FILMS, and the largest and most varied Stocks
of Photographic Requisites and Dealers’ Supplies
of every Description ... are carried by the ...
THE FILM OF THE WORLD
THE omr ROLL FILM USED ALL OVER THE WORLD
OBTAINABLE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
THE OHLY RELIABLE irGEtUJINE FILM FOR KODAKS
BASER fis ROUSE PRQPY., LTD.,
SOLE SUSTRUASMK AGENTS FOR KODAK, LIMITED,
876 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
An 4 at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE anl BRI3BANS
MAKER & ROUSE *kopt.
Sole Australasian Agents for KODAK LIMITED,
375 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne
78 Queen St., Brisbane; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide.
MURRELLS & BECKER,
Manufacturers of
Sporting and Travelling Goods.
SANOOW
stands tor Strength and Beauty.
If you have not played with a
Sandow you have not kicked the best ball in Aus-
tralia. Shape, Weight and Wear guaranteed.
Write for one—l4/6. Other sizes and qualities
from 2/0.
No. 7, A.M.P. Buildings,
Edward St., Brisbane, Sept. 2, 1904.
Messrs. Murrells & Becker, Brisbane.
Gentlemen, —I have very much pleasure in inform-
ing you that the “ Sandow ” Footballs manufactured
by your firm, and which we used in all the matches
in connection with Great Britain, have given entire
satisfaction to both the Queensland and Australian
teams. The balls reflect great credit on your firm,
and it is extremely gratifying to find that such an
excellent article can be procured in the colonies.—
Yours faithfully, MAURICE BALDWIN, Hon. Sec.
Queensland Rugby Union.
Shin Guards, Punching Bails, Bladders, Gloves
and Swivels always in stock.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE B.
THE TRAVELLERS' DEPOT,
360 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
212 Edward St., BRISBANE,
f Office Economy—A Snggestion. M
Several of the largest offices in London
have equipped their entire staff with
removing all Desk Encumbrances, such as
Inkpots, Holders, Racks, Extra Hibs, etc.
No—Here is no oiler Fonnfoiii Pen “psl ns posl”
"SWAN** PENS are fully guaranteed. Catalogue post free.
93, Cheapside,
London, E.C. @
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers, and Importers.
n
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAFILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capiixa. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. 0.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.F.W.
The Real Thing >
Attests *
PURE RICH
CREAM
GOLDEN
BUTTERFLY
BRAND*
J
FUSSELL'S
CREAM
Is NOT a Makeshift NOR a Substi-
tute but PURE Mountain Pasture
k CREAM. Guaranteed free from Pre-
I servative and put up in Sterilized
1 Tins. Keeps good IN ANY CLIMATE
I FOR MANY MONTHS. On sale
[ almost everywhere, but if any difficulty
in procuring it, apply to special repre-
sentative for the district—
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.,
George Street, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DJiaPX COIVtJPJESTITXOKT#
WINES ** e Bed £ ™’“" * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, 4a.
Kent Brewery, SYDITBY,
Mr. J. KING, Swan’s St., North Freemantle, W. Australia.
HAS BEEN CURED
OF A SCROTAL
mas*
Mb. J. KINO
of 20 years’ standing without operation, and has dis-
carded his truss. He had Buffered not only from his rupture,
but also from the effects of ill-fitting spring trusses, which caused
more pain than the rupture. He had given up ail hopes of a cure
until he heard of the Rice method. He tried it and it cured him.
Thousands of men, women and children have been cured by this
method without pain, danger or operation. Among them are
Chas. Pittner, Mossman, via Port Douglas, Queensland; Mrs.
F. Medley, 331, Swan Street, Richmond, Melbourne: L. Exton
(child), 2, Harold Street, Newtown, near Sydney, N.S.W.; and
J. Westhead, River Darling, Pooncaria, N.S.W. Your rupture
cannot be worse than some I have cured. You owe it to yourself to
at least investigate carefully this method of cure. BEWARE of
any person or persons claiming to be or to have been at any time
connected with me in business in any way. Such statements are
absolutely fraudulent and devoid of all founlation. BEWARE
of all imitations of my method. The genuine T »'e method can be
obtained from my London office only. I wi! lend you a boob
giving a complete description of rupture and its cure, and telling
why the Rice method has succeeded in so many thousands of
cases, if you will write for it. Do not he misled by worthless
guarantees, but write for my world-wide-known nnd tested
method. Write to-day to W. S. RICE, Rupture Specialist
(Dept. 2320), 8 & 9, Stonecutter Street, London, E.G.


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC.
GUARANTEE. Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well-known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
distilled from Wine only.
CAUTION. . . The Public should insist upon having Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s original bottle and white and gold label as
shipped by them from Cognac.
TARIFF COMMISSION.
Extbaot beom the ‘‘Lancer
Virn.n d v and its special adaptability as distinct from all other spirits for the purpose.
the sunshine of life
Means Abundant Health, Energy, Vigorous Bodily and Mental Activity accom-
panied by Will Force and the power to compete with everyone in the battle ot Me.
Is this your condition ?
WHY HAVEN’T YOU GOT IT
Are your Organs Clogged, Weak, or Dilatory ? Do you
sufficiently ? You can easily ascertain this, and lone up
and Bowels by a course of
throw off the Waste Matters
the whole Digestive Organs
LAXATI
5
THE LUBRICATING
LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
The People’s Ideal Aperient, Is. Box.
EASY TO BUY, EASY TO TAKE, PERFECT IN ACTION.
DOES NOT GRIPE OR INCONVENIENCE.
ALL CHEMISTS,
THE WATCH for COUNTRY RESIDENTS
We don’t believe any Watch comes so
near Perfection as the celebrated
H.B. LEVER WATCH
Mmsa ym n .1
It has Patent Non-Magnetic Movement, will
stand hard riding, and is almost insensible to the
variations of temperature.
Price 21s
POBT FREE
ANYWHERE.
In Nickel Silver or Gun Metal Cases.
EVERY WATCH EXAMINED AND TIMED BY US AND GUARANTEED •
HI.
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., BRISBANE.
NESTLES MILK
THE WORLD’S STANDARD. BEST QUALITY.
Nestles Milk Food
for CHILDREN.
THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHER’S MILK.
HOTEL
HETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments may be
Becured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards,
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on applies
tion to Thus Manager.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
et
m
v*
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
MOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A- 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. M* Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Gfefiltenftam, England.
Agent*—Elliott Bros., Sydney j Felton, Qrlmwada &^ Co.elbourne.
The Secret in a Nutshell.
Durability, Economy, and Suitability under
all conditions are the secrets of the great
demand for RUBEROID ROOFING.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
IN OTHER STATES l
MELBOURNE— Brooks, Robinson & Co., Ltd.
ADELAIDE—A. W. SANDFORD & 00.
FREMANTLE— J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
HOBART— William Crosbt & 00.
LAUNCESTON— The Tasmanian Woolgrowbrs
Agency Co., Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1326.
THURSDAY. JULY 13, 1905.
Prick 6d.
THE CAVE MAN AGAIN.
ded to feel very much hurt all the same."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
3 Yinted and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (With regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc,) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy," Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
ahvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
_ The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Made and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid,
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Je Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ;
H. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hono Kong.— Brewer and Co., 32 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
jTS ssxzlZe&n.
THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1905.
THE LEGISLATIVE PARALYSIS.
The return of Alfred Deakin to office as Prime
Minister of Australia is also a return to the old
position which Barton found barely tolerable,
which Deakin last year found intolerable, which
Watson found impossible, and which Reid
grasped at with all his four extremities only to
discover that the foothold was greased. One well-
meaning leader, two honest leaders and one
acrobat have already tried to balance on the hope-
less proposition, and now the sanguine Deakin
proposes to renew the attempt. He comes into
office as a High Protectionist with a minority
behind him, and depends for his billet on the sup-
port of a party of about 23 which declines to take
any share in the government, or to assume any
responsibility as to the most important part of
his programme. The Australian Parliament, in
fact, has drifted into a situation which makes
Party Government a joke. The tariff question is,
above all others, the live question in Australian
politics. It can no more be sunk than the con-
tinent itself. And on this question the Parlia-
ment is divided into a poweiless Freetrade
minority, which never practised Freetrade when
it had the chance ; an avowed Protectionist party,
which is also a minority ; and a third minority
which is mostly Protectionist, but which has
hitherto refused to say so. On other questions
Parliament is divided into a Tory Freetrade
party; a democratic Labor party which is mostly
Protectionist as regards its units, but which has
no fiscal policy in its corporate capacity, and
which puts the Labor programme first; also a
Protectionist party which is almost as democratic
as the Labor party, but which puts Protection
first. There is a great majority for High Protec-
tion, but Protection can’t be got by reason of the
fetish of Party Government. There is a great
majority for almost every item of the Federal
Labor policy, but very little comes of it
because of the Mumbo - Jumbo of Party
Government. There is abundant material to
make a solid, efficient and durable Ministry out
of, but that Ministry is unobtainable by
reason of the joss of Party Government. It is a
sorrowful fact that, while the brass god of Party
Government continues to be reverenced, the only
possible legitimate Ministry in the present House
of Representatives—the only Ministry which
answers to the Party Government ideal—was that
immoral combination of frauds, incapables, Tories,
backsliders and shufflers which Alfred Deakin
demolished the other day at Ballarat. The prin-
ciple of Party Government consists in selling
any convictions which would tend to divide the
Legislature into more than two sections, and in
the way of selling its convictions the late Ministry
was unrivalled.
Party Government commenced in England by
accident in the time of William 111. No one con-
sidered that there was anything sacred about it;
it was merely that there were only two parties in
the Legislature, and a system arose which
adapted itself to these conditions. When no one
troubled about the state of the great mass of the
people, and it was mainly a question of adhesion
to the new king who possessed asthma, or
to the old king who lacked intelligence, the
Party Government system filled the bill. Unless
the two parties were exactly equal nothing could
go wrong with it, and they never were exactly
equal. The system was based on the theory that
two sets of principles were laid out; that the
Premier and his followers took one set bodily, and
the leader of the Opposition and his followers took
the whole of the other set. There was no room in
it for a man who didn’t accept either set in its
entirety. When there were very few principles,
and practically no new or progressive ideas, this
arrangement was easy. When legislators were
too dull to think about principles it was quite easy.
W hen legislators were willing to sell any principles
they thought they had for the chance of office, it
was the easiest thing in the world. But when
politicians began to have large honest political
programmes, to think for themselves, and to stick
to their convictions, the system began to go to
pieces. It is as utterly incompatible with present
conditions as would be a system which necessitated
a majority of the community having one set of
religious views, and which became unworkable
when there ceased to be any one church with a
majority over all other churches combined.
* * * *
There are two visible ways out of the chaos and
welter of the worn-out party system. One of
them is that of the United States, where Minis-
ters are not appointed by Congress, are not con-
trolled by it nor to any serious extent responsible
to it, and are an institution apart from the people’s
representatives. That method might be effective,
but it would be retrogressive and wholly unthink-
able. The other and simpler method is that of
the J Swiss -Republic, where the Legislature elects
its Ministers for the term of a whole Parliament,
and then gets on with business. And unless Aus-
tralia adopts this simple and direct method, there
appears to be little hope that it will get on with
business. There is no apparent reason why the
broken-down ox-dray of the party system should
be adhered to when this handy, efficient and up-
to-date locomotive is available. Its adoption
would not even require any amendment of the
Federal Constitution. That document speaks on
the subject in this wise :
There shall be a Federal Executive Council to advise
the Governor-General in the Government of the Common-
wealth, and the members of the Council shall be chosen
and summoned by the Governor-General, and sworn as
Executive Councillors, and shall hold office during his
pleasure.
That clause is an antiquated jest which would fit
an elective Ministry as well as any other. At
present the Governor-General doesn’t choose the
Premier, except in name; he takes the man whom
the House has chosen by giving him a majority
—or at least he tries to do so. Then his Excellency
does not choose the other Ministers ; the Premier
and the party caucus do that. And these Ministers
do not hold office during his Ex.’s pleasure but
during the Parliament’s pleasure. If the House
elected them openly and directly instead of by
cumbrous processes of secret intrigue, the Gover-
nor-General, who would retain his veto —if he ven-
tured to use it—on the Parliament’s selections
just as he does now, would have just the same
power of choice as at present. And if Parliament
elected Ministers for three years the Governor-
General would have the same right to dismiss
them at his pleasure as he has now—which,
in practice, is no right at all. Apparently there
is nothing save a servile attachment to precedent—
a purely accidental precedent—to prevent the
experiment being tried.
* * * *
The adoption in good faith of the system of
elective Ministries should remove almost all the
difficulties which have paralysed Federal legis-
lation. The idea is to elect Ministers for the term
of a whole Parliament, subject to removal only
for such causes as would justify their expulsion
from the Legislature. They would be chosen for
their administrative abilities, but Parliament
would not pledge itself to believe in their policy,
nor to accept the measures of any Minister or
party of Ministers, and it would be no part of the
bargain that they should be of one mind on
matters of legislation, nor that they should resign,
either individually or collectively, if their mea-
sures were rejected. The Parliament which
elected them would, by so doing, express its con-
fidence in them as honest and capable managers
of departmental affairs, but it would commit itself
no further. There would, consequently, be no
more votes of censure re the Ministerial policy, no
more crises, no more premature dissolutions, and
no more delays while a new Cabinet was being got
together, or while it was formulating its policy
after it was got together. There would
be no more arrangements for giving support
in return for concessions, for the Ministry
would have no power to grant concessions.
There would be no more selling of political prin-
ciples for office, except in the sense that a member
might disguise his principles in the hope of get-
ting votes from his fellow members that would
secure his election to office. Even that would
matter little, as he would have hardly any more
chance to put his disguised, and possibly nefarious,
principles into practice after he got office than be-
fore. And there would be no more coalitions. A
Minister might like to have behind him a strong
party wb.ch backed his measures and regarded
him with faith and admiration. To have such a
party would gratify his vanity. But his position,
unless he committed some absolutely disgraceful
action, would be just as secure till after next elec-
tion, without a party. A great Prime Minister,
of course, would get a party—possibly one that
would secure his re-election for a whole series of
Parliaments. When there was a really groat
Prime Minister who held the public confidence in
the hollow of his hand no one would notice
much difference between the new system and the
old one. But when there was no towering poli-
tical intelligence on hand the new system would
spell stability. The present one spells chaos.
* • * *
Of course, at the meeting of a new Parliament,
there would be abundant room for temporary
coalitions, alliances and intrigues in the appoint-
ment of the Cabinet, especially in a time of poli-
tical mediocrity. But all such movements would
be hampered by two incurable weaknesses. The
new Ministry might pledge itself to. certain mea-
sures as the price of support, but it would have
nothing but its personal vote and any personal
influence it could exert with which to back up the
pledge. It couldn’t crack a party whip as
a means of forcing a measure through; it
couldn’t threaten a dissolution; and when it had
its position secure for three years, it would very
soon get out of the habit of threatening resigna-
tion. That is one serious difficulty in the way of
political intrigue. Another difficulty is that the
members who, for a price, gave their votes to secure
the election of certain Ministers couldn’t dismiss
these Ministers again if they broke faith. The
worst practical revenge they could take would be
to vote for other men at the opening of next
Parliament; but a revenge which is three years dis-
tant, and which lies at the other side of a general
election, at which election the aggrieved politi-
cians may themselves disappear, is a very poor
thing. On the whole, there seems a fair chance
that Ministers would be elected mainly, if not
wholly, on their merits, or their supposed merits.
• • * «
The reason why the system of elective Ministries
should at least have a trial is that it promises to
put public business on a business-like footing.
Tn a House where the Speaker has a casting vote
there is no possible measure or proposition as to
which there is not a majority of at least one for or
against. The necessity is to get down to a square,
honest vote, and settle the matter, and proceed to
the next business. The reasons why the present
triangular Australian Parliament hardly contrives
to decide anything are many, There is the waste
of time over votes of censure, Ministerial crises,
making new Ministries, drawing up new Minis-
terial programmes, over premature dissolutions
and elections, and so on. There are questions on
which the House hardly dare touch, lest the result
should be the breakage of an old coalition, the
making of a new one, the upsetting of this Minis-
try and consequent loss of that Bill, and the
resultant bringing-in of that Ministry and the in-
troduction of this other Bill. Then there is the
matter which this party agreed not to men-
tion as the price of support, and the question
that party agreed not to make too prominent
in the hope that it might thereby gain support,
and the urgent problem which the third party
decided to consider non-existent till it knew what
Ministerial combination might turn up. In the
constant fuss to get office, to keep office, to pre-
vent the other fellow getting office, to prevent the
next fellow retaining office, there is no time for
any real business in a Legislature of three carefully-
balanced parties. Yet the fact remains that
whether there are three parties in the Australian
House of Representatives, or ten parties, or
twenty, there is a definite majority one way or the
other on every question; and if every question
could be put to the House on its merits, free from
the chaos of intrigues for office, it could be
settled just as easily with twenty parties as with
two. Under the system of elective Minis-
tries it seems that the only serious difficulty
left would be that arising from stonewalling, and
there is no real reason why that should not be
overcome, at least in a great measure. A Parlia-
ment elected by universal suffrage can be fairly
assumed to represent the popular will by its votes
—at least, it comes as near to doing so as it can.
Therefore it could be no hardship or injustice to
cut the flow of eloquence short by drastic Stand-
ing Orders and go to a vote.
* * * *
Meanwhile the second Deakin Ministry has
assumed office. Since Barton’s resignation the
average duration of an Australian Ministry has
been eight months, and the average may diminish.
All the large questions of the day—Protection for
Australian industry, Arbitration, old-age pen-
sions, the taking over and consolidation of the
debts and railways, Federal graduated land-tax to
break up big estates, an efficient system of naval
and military defence, the taking over of the
Northern Territory, the promotion of white immi-
gration of the best class (after profitable work has
been provided for the immigrants to do), the
building of the transcontinental line, the estab-
lishment of a Federal sinking fund against the
debts to be assumed, the construction of an effici-
ent banking system and the establishment of a
Government bank of issue—all these and many
others are hung up. One of them was touched on
and it capsized two Ministries. No one dared to
seriously touch the rest; a Government which is
balanced on one foot on a greasy rope dare not
attempt to lift heavy substances lest it should lose
its useless equilibrium. Therefore Australia has
been getting lots of Ministries, but hardly any
progressive legislation, and unless there is a change
in the fiscal attitude of the Labor party, and a
real combination becomes possible instead of a
precarious support, the new Ministry looks very
little more stable than the one which went before
it. To begin with, it has a conscience. Then
it depends for its existence on the Labor party,
which also has a conscience. And there is no
provision for one conscience, let alone two, in the
system of Party Government.
THE FEDERAL CITY.
It is a long time since the N.S.W. Assembly-
touched such a bottom level of degradation as it
did last week over the Federal Capital debate.
The debate commenced with a complaint about
“ the injustice inflicted on N.S.W. by the unneces-
sary delay in determining the site, ” and it con-
tinued in that strain all through. In every line
it read like the yowl of the spoiled child crying on
general principles for everything, and demanding
that everything be reached down from the shelf
immediately. The trouble about the capital began
even before there was any Commonwealth to have
a capital, and the yowl of the spoiled child began
about the same time. Away back in the tail end
of last century the N.S.W. State Parliament
covered itself with disgrace by breaking its com-
pact with the other States—the compact which
provided that N.S.W. should enter the Common-
wealth if there were a majority vote in favor of so
doing, and if the affirmative vote was not less than
50,000 strong. The State Parliament deliberately
raised the minimum to 80,000 with a view
to defeating the Commonwealth Bill and
annulling the popular vote that it knew would
be given in favor of the Bill, and in doing
this it earned the contempt of every decent and
honest citizen. Then Premier Reid found that he
had backed the wrong horse, and that his Yes-No
was null and void. He had, with the aid of a
crowd of treacherous incompetents, annulled by
Act of Parliament a popular vote large enough to
wreck him and Pumpkin Smith and ox-dealer
Brunker at next election, and being in this hole
it was necessary to escape from the orifice quickly,
and with as much dignity as possible. But even
Reid hardly dared to begin cheering wildly for
the Bill that he had so furiously denounced. It
was necessary to get something in it altered—a
word, or a blot, or a comma—so that it would be
possible to say that it wasn’t really the same Bill,
but a different one with the objectionable comma
removed. So Reid procured, without any popu-
lar sanction or authority, the insertion of the pro-
viso that the Federal capital should be somewhere
in N.S.W., over 100 miles from Sydney, and
should contain any area not less than .100 square
miles. And having rushed the other States
into this agreement, the Bill became law, and the
new troubles commenced.
The Australian Parliament kept its share of the
agreement to the letter. It selected a site at
Dalgety—over 100 miles from Sydney, as speci-
fied in the Constitution. It asked for the very
inadequate area of 900 square miles—the Con-
stitution, as Reid got it amended, gives the
Australian Parliament a perfect right to ask for
30,000 square miles should it feel that way, yet it
only demanded enough room for a city, a reser-
voir, and a very modest water-catchment area.
The Australian Parliament was overwhelmed with
the work of getting all its new governmental
machinery in order and making its tariff ; and it
was troubled by the knowledge that the selection
of a capital was practically an irrevocable act, and
not one to be rushed at without due consideration,
as if it were some twopenny Bill that could be
passed to-day, and amended to-morrow, and
repealed the day after. Nevertheless, the matter
was fixed up, so far as the Australian Parlia-
ment—which is largely a N.S.W. Parliament and
which was then under the leadership of a N.S.W.
Premier—could do it, inside three years. The
unspeakable State Legislature of N.S.W., which
complains of the Australian Parliament’s lack of
haste, haggled over Local Government for the
whole State, over the North Shore bridge, and
over the new railway station, for- over
fifty years, and hasn’t fixed any one, of
them up yet. Now the N.S.W. Government
has brought about a deadlock by refusing
to surrender the Dalgety site, and, though it is the
sole obstruction and the sole cause of delay, it has
the amazing effrontery to profess that N.S.W,
is being betrayed, or in some unaccountable way
injured, by Federal procrastination. What more
the Australian Parliament could do than select a
site and ask N.S.W. for it, and receive an uncivil
answer, no one explains. And it must be remem-
bered that, before the Australian Parliament
selected a site on its own responsibility, it asked the
N.S.W. State Government over and over again to
say what site it was willing to give, and got no
reply. A great part of the delay now complained
of arose through the Federal Government asking
for some suggestion, and waiting vainly for a reply
from the discourteous Legislature which now says
it should have been consulted.
* * * *
The present disturbance, to put the matter
shortly, is practically based on these three implied
propositions: —
(1) That though the N.S.W. Government insisted on its ;
right to surrender the territory for the Federal city, and;
declared that N.S.W. wouldn’t federate unless it alone
secured the right to lose that territory, yet the N.S.W.
Assembly is justified in professing to regard the loss of;
the territory as a damage and a robbery, and in claiming
as compensation for the loss of territory a voice which no
other State Legislature possesses as regards the selection
of the capital.
(2) That the N.S.W. Assembly is justified in claiming-
the sole right to expound the Constitution —to decide
that “ not less than 100 miles from Sydney ” means as
close to the 100-mile line as possible, and that “ not less
than 100 square miles” means not more, or hardly any
more, than 100 square miles.
(3) That, in short, because a previous N.S.W. Govern-,
ment demanded and secured the concession of the capital
in the first place, the N.S.W. Assembly has the further ,
right to decide where the capital of all Australia is to be,
what area it is to be, whether it is or is not to have,
access to the sea, and all other details, none of which
things are in the Constitution. Further, that while it,
blocks the way itself it has a right to accuse the Austra-
lian Parliament of doing so, and that its members have a :
general privilege to scatter abuse round generally.
* * * *
The debate as a whole dragged along the nar-
rowest and muddiest tracks of parish bigotry..
Premier Carruthebs slopped over wildly about:,
putting an end to the Commonwealth rather than...
the Federal Government should take “ one. acreo
of N.S.W. land” without the sanction of.)the•
State. Of course, the Australian Parliament can’t:
compel N.S.W. to give its sanction; and the clause,
which the N.S.W. Government got. inserted im
the Federal Constitution requires the Australian
Parliament to take or get og.acq.uirn at the very
least 64,000 acres of N.S.W. land,for. the purposes
of a capital, whether it gets the State’s sanction
or not; and this very,' debate commenced on a
motion about the and unjust delay of the
Australian Parliament m taking that 64,000 or
more acres whicly N.S.W. hasn’t yet consented
to give; but to a man like Carruthebs such
discrepancies matter little. The same paltry
Joseph further divulged himself thus: —
Several Senators had voted for what they considered
the worst site they could select (the Dalgety site) because
it was thought that so long as the worst site was selected
there was less chance of having the capital in the country
or the bush at all. . . . New South Wales did not get any»
thing like fair treatment. Over £30,000 had been set
aside for Federal public worksin, Victoria, and New South
Wales would have to plank down £lB,OOO towards that
expenditure.
Mr. Fegan : Great Scott!
Mr. Carruthers : They were spending money in
toria, because the seat of government was thtre, and they,
were making the other States pay for it on a per-capita,
basis.
Over the second statement even the Sydney,Tele-
graph, generally a reliable supporter of Car-
ruthers, was driven to prove in its Saturday’s
financial column that Premier Joseph was a
shameless perverter of fact, and that Victoria was
treated far worse than N.S.W., Victoria, being
overcharged £40,927 for works in other States,
while N.S. Wales was overcharged £16,195..
Tasmania is also, on the Telegraph’s evi-
dence, worse treated than N.S.W. in this
respect, the two gainers being S.A. and Wes-
tralia; but the N.S.W. Premier is the only baby
who is weeping about it. As a matter of fact,
when Federal works are put up where they are
wanted, and charged to the revenue generally,
occasional discrepancies are unavoidable, and only
the spoilt child of the Commonwealth wets its
pinny with tears over the inevitable. As to the
statement that Dalgety was selected because it
was “ the worst site,” Premier Carruthers should
remember that when that same region was first
mentioned he frantically refused to give it up
because the country thereabouts was too valuable
and was the finest part of N.S.W., and the best
site in the State; and he supported that yelp—
which is quite different from this yelp—with
figures about the revenue, production and popula-
tion of the locality, which figures were immediately
proved, by census and other returns, to be gross
falsehoods from first to last.
* * * *
Labor leader M‘Go wen, who supplied a good
share of the oratory on this unfortunate occasion,
did not support .Carruthers in his pose as a
penny Caesar who was liable at any moment
to break out and tear up Australia like wet
blotting paper, but his remarks all through were
a general denunciation of the Federal principle.
So . were the casual observations of Edmen,
Holman, Nielsen, and Daley. Apparently, a sec-
tion of the N.S.W. State Labor party has quite for-
gotten its theories about the cultivation of a na-
tional as distinct from a provincial spirit, and has
no sympathy for the Parliament which has endea-
vored seriously to make Australia white, which :
has given Australia absolute adult suffrage, and
which seeks to make of the Federal territory a;
great and valuable experiment in land national-
rsation. Certainly, M‘Go wen poured cold water
on the swelled and smoking head of Carruthers,.


but he might have clone much more. There was
a chance for the State Labor party to lend the
whole weight of its support to its brethren in the
Australian Parliament, and to show that the
Labor movement is really an Australian move-
ment ; and to a great extent the chance was
missed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Selling the Children.
One day last week N.S.W. Assembly, consisting
mainly of Freetraders, and representing the State
which sent the strongest Free trade contingent to
the Australian Parliament, held its usual debate
on the unemployed question. For N.S.W. is
alleged to be swarming with workless artisans,
who hang around watching the goods that they
might be making for the State’s consumption
being brought ashore from foreign ships, and
wondering, perhaps, why Holman, M.L.A.,
should be so anxious to protect them from the
competition of the handful of non-unionists in
N.S.W., while desiring to expose them to the
competition of all the millions and millions of
cheaper non-unionists outside. The debate was
decorated as usual with remarks like this :
There are 30,000 unemployed walking the streets of
N.S.W. to-day.— M'Nbill, M.L.A.
It is criminal for the Government to build up a surplus
of a quarter of a million while subjects are perishing for
want of food.— M'Gqwen, M.L.A.
If I had not spent £9,500,000 (of loan money) there
would have been a crisis in this State worse than that of
*93,— O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
A.ll will admit that there is necessity for action on the
part of the Government in connection with relieving the
distress among the unemployed. I am favorable to the
borrowing of £10,000.000 to carry out reproductive public
works. — Norton, M.L.A.
The Chinaman, when he is hard up, is aeeused of
selling his children into slavery and buying
victuals with the proceeds. N.S.W. believes in
doing the same thing. It raises the wind by sell-
ing its children to the money-lender—by loading
them with a debt that will grind all joy and plea-
sure and happiness out of their existence, so that
their unemployed fathers of the present genera-
tion may live. Yet these same fathers, who want
work so badly, are sending away to the foreigner
£11,000,000 worth of work every year, and
they vote pretty consistently for the policy
which gives all that employment to the
foreigner. They are unemployed for the sake
of the craze for cheap imports, and are selling
their children for the preservation of the creed of
Cobden, the sweater, the advocate of long hours
and low wages, and child slavery. And while the
children are being sold for their fathers’ bread,
Holman, the dreamy lawyer, with his book-theory
in one hand and his brief in the other, writes to
The Bulletin to state that he doesn’t really object
to the starting of new industries, provided he is
convinced that the country is ready for them, or
something to that effect. He seems willing to
make a dispassionate note of the subject, and put
it away in a dispassionate drawer where he may
find it when he has his Spring cleaning. If there
is any reliance to be placed on the evidence con-
tain id in last week’s Parliamentary debate, N. S. W.
is so completely ready for more work and more
wages that, for want of them, its best resource, in
:a really good year, is to ask Cohen and co. for
;S onie money to go on with, and assure him that
the miserable infant, when he grows up to be
unemployed like his father, and to be even more
deeply-indebted than his father, will slave
and toil to pay the interest on his father’s loan
somehow. Even in these circumstances Holman,
M.L. A., isn’t at all sure that the time has come to
•start new industries. He is only thinking about
it in an unbiassed sort of way, as one might think
•oi the rings of Saturn, or any other calm, unex-
citing problem. When, in a single State, 30,000
people are alleged to be workless and hungry,
while the State is giving away to outsiders
£11,000,000 worth of employment annually, it is
surely time to find out the reason why all this work
—so badly wanted —is sent away. It could be kept
here if the foreigner’s goods were shut out by
Protection, but Holman, M.L.A., in the state-
ment of his views which he supplied to this paper
last week, expressed himself hostile to that
method lest it should lead to the creation of great
monopolies. Yet, if the only way he can see to
avert industrial monopolies is to do without
industries, and the only way he can prevent us
having one or two millionaires is to have 30,000
people starving, for what possible purpose is
Holman, M.L.A., a legislator?
»
“Poor Old Mother-State.”
The case condensed: —
It is quite time that J. Carruthers, and persons like
him, dropped this silly drivel about the ignominy and
hardship that Federation has brought upon the “ poor old
Mother State.” It may be mentioned in passing that a
State that can stand J. Carruthers as Premier can
probably stand a good deal more hardship than Federa-
tion has brought, or is likely to bring, to N.S.W. That,
however, is by the way. What one wants to get at is
some real instance of ignominy or hardship brought by
Federation upon a poor down-trodden State. J. Car-
ruthers and the hundreds of commonplace Daily-Tele-
GRAPn-ridden people like him, will, of course, at once
point out that the poor old Mother State —a snivelling old
party she would be, if the Premier’s performances really
represented public feeling—is being robbed of the Capital
by those rascally Victorians. One will ask in vain for any
other instance of hardship ; so it is worth while to get at
the real facts about this one.
They are that the Federal capital question might have
been settled long ago, and men have been at work on the
new city, if it had not been for the action of the poor old
Mother State herself. In April, 1901, a few months after
Federation had come into existence, Prime Minister
Barton asked Mr. See, the then Premier of N.S.W., to
•co-operate with him in enabling the Federal Parliament
;to select the site. After a correspondence which, on the
part of the State Premier, was neither intelligent nor
• decently polite, Mr. Barton had to give up his attempt
'because Mr. See wouldn’t answer his letters. The corres-
pondence closed, indeed, with an urgent telegram, in
•December, 1901, from Mr. Barton to Mr. See, asking for
:a reply to a letter of August, 1901. The only result of it
was that Mr. Oliver’s report was slung at the Federal
{Premier’s head by Mr. See.
It doesn’t matter whether or not the Barton Govern-
ment was right or wrong in the method adopted by it for
arriving at a settlement. The facts remain, that an
iionest effort was made to secure the co-operation of the
poor old Mother State as long ago as 1901, and this effort
was foile4 by the stupidity or laziness of the State
Government. If that Government had been in any way
serious in its professed desire to have the site fixed, it
ioould have done it at the time, or, at any rate, have
thrown the responsibility for failure on the Federal
Government. As it is, the whole responsibility rests with
fthe N.S.W. Ministry, and with the Parliament that kept
that Ministry in power. And it is worth while remarking
that the course taken by the Barton Government at that
time had the enthusiatic approval of the same J. Car-
brothers who now whines about N.S.W. “ not getting
anything like fair treatment ” in this matter.
As far as the subsequent history of the business is con-
cerned, it is a malicious falsehood to say that the Federal
Government or Parliament is responsible for the delay.
Im Sept. 1903, the Barton Government made another
attempt to fix the site, and introduced resolutions in
both Houses for that purposes. This, and a subsequent
attempt made by the Deakin Government in October,
1903, both failed because of an unfortunate difference of
opinion between the Senate and the House of Represen-
' tatives as to the method of selection and the location of
the capital. J. Carruthbrs himself, if he had had “ the
misfortune” to be Prime Minister of the Commonwealth,
could not have prevented that. Anyhow, the matter was
brought up by the Watson Government as soon as
possible afterwards, and, in August, 1904, a Bill was
passed selecting Dalgety as the site. The only reason
why the Federal public offices are not now being built is
that the Parliament of N.S.W., with the concurrence of
J. Carruthbrs, refused to offer the site, and, as the
Federal Government is naturally unwilling to exercise
compulsory powers until all hope of peaceful negotiation
has failed, the matter is still further delayed.
And now, in the face of these facts, which appear on
the public records, J. Carruthbrs treats the House and
the country to a display of petulant heroics about the
wicked way the poor old Mother State is being robbed of
her rights, and about his own glorious determination to
save her at all costs. Poor old Mother State J
+
The London “Daily Mail’s” Lie.
Under the heading “ ‘White Australia’ Fiasco”
and some more, London Daily Mail printed a
wild yarn alleged to have been cabled by its
Sydney correspondent on May 16, to the
effect that the experience of the Ormuz, the first
Orient steamer to carry white stokers, had been a
ghastly failure. “ The purser and another officer,”
according to the Stinking Fish correspondent,
“spent hours at Adelaide police court yester-
day in connection with drunken firemen,” The
Bulletin has already remarked in a general way
that the whole yarn is a vast lie ; but as the lie con-
tinues to bob up in almost every English paper
that comes along, it’s just as well to nail it down
with official statements. There are only two
police courts which could possibly have been
referred to; here are reports from each pf them
From James Gordon, S.M., Adelaide,—The cablegram is
entirely wrong. No such proceedings against the firemen
cr any of the crew of the s.s. ,Qrmn? were ever taken in
the Adelaide police court.
From T, 0. Fowler, clerk of bocal Cpyrt, Port Ade-
laide. —In reference to yopr communication of 2§rd ult.,
asking to be informed whether there is a°y truth in the
report quoted therein as regards any cpurt prpcedings in
connection with the crew pf s.s,,Ormuz, .ph or about May
15, I am directed by the Special Magistrate to say that no
proceedings .of the kind have \>pen instituted in this court.
If the Daily Mail alleged correspondent hasn’t
already done so, will he please now cable to the
effect that the yarn he sent on May 16 was a lie
of the meanest and most unpatriotic character ?
And will the Daily Mail please pass pn this cer-
tificate of its own utter unreliableness to all the
papers it has succeeded in hoaxing ? Also will the
English unions to which the firemen belong
take a hand, and make quite sure that the Daily
Mail eats the peck of dirt and thistles to which it
is so justly entitled for its mean slanders on its
own countrymen, dirt and thistles being plainly
the Mail’s proper victuals ?
4
Barking at the Old Lion
A letter from Maoriland :—■
The political situation in Maoriland is interesting, even
from an Australian point of view. Seddon and his coun-
try have so long been synonymous terms that the strenu-
ous preparations now being made to dislodge him will
awaken general interest. The election—due six months
hence—is going to be the most bitter fought since 1890—
the year of the maritime strike. The fight will chiefly be
on the question of Seddon, Certain sections are thirsting
for Richard’s downfall with the fury of a stamp-collector
who sees another fellow in possession of a rare specimen.
They have never hated him so well as they hate him at
present, and perhaps they hate him all the more
because they imagine there is a hope of knocking
him out of the position he has filled for the last
12 years. They are making herculean efforts. They
have resuscitated the old Conservative party—
almost killed in 1893—and they are summoning
the thousands of settlers who have been helped up the
ladder by the Government to bite the hands that fed
them. They are offering bribes to some of these—bribes
in the way of freehold instead of leasehold and the
removal of restrictions to the aggregation of large estates.
They are rounding up dissatisfied employers—men who
never voluntarily paid fair wages for fair work—to take
sides against the Government because it forced them to
do both these things. The Fatman is delightfully busy
preparing for the fray, and the Fatman’s journals are
bristling with enthusiasm over the imaginary coming
victorv. In response to the yapping at him and his
Seddon speaks here, there and everywhere. He
sees in the crowds that confront him only the resuscita-
tion of the old Conservative party which John Ballance
routed some 15 years ago. The leader of this party is a
simple farmer from the North, who must surely blush to
find, after an oration in which he has merely heaped
clumsy malignity on Seddon, the Tory press seriously
describing his .veilings as “statesmanlike.” He is
subsidised by the'wealthy sheep-farmers and merchants.
He travels with a private secretary, and the farmers’
unions suggest that he be paid by the State. (When
Ballance was leader of the Opposition they would not
have suggested such a thing.) Massey has for henchman
a young lawyer called “Lorry” Herdman, and, between
them, they' stump the country, persuading the small
settler—who is their particular aim at present—that
he is a very “ pore and deserving case.” Had the party
they represent been in power during the last 15 years,
there would be ne small settlers at all; but that is
immaterial. “ Lorry ” is a poor politician. He came for-
ward as a Liberal, but has sunk his liberalism in the
slough of personal hate for Dick Seddon'. The Premier
has hit hard in return, and, invading the yapping one’s
electorate, he has made it so hot for him that it is doubt-
ful whether he will be able to represent Mount Ida in
next year’s Assembly. And while the State is at fever
heat already over the fighting, there is a steady leakage
of cold-water politics which slop continuously into the
fires of political hatred, and with all this slop and chaos
there will be a pretty mess of pottage presented to the
electors in November.
The Situation in South Australia.
The present situation in S. Australia is very like
the Federal situation that existed when the
Deakin Government went out of office. When
Deakin lost his unsteady job, the Labor party
succeeded to the position. Its numbers were few
but it tried to run the show on its own. Watson
wanted to take a couple of Deakin’s followers
into the Ministry, thereby securing the support
of the Liberal members, but the caucus said No.
So the Ministry went ahead —-and out. If the
S. Australian caucus plays the cards the same
way, the end will be the same. The Assem-
bly consists of 42 members—ls Laborites, 9
Liberals, 5 Tories in office, and 13 plain
ordinary Tories not in office. The Laborites
propose (1) that the Legislative Council be
abolished, or (2) that the principle of adult
suffrage be applied to it. The Liberals want
a £l5 household franchise, and Butler’s for-
lorn five Tories in office clamor for a £2O ditto.
The 13 Tories out of office, of course, are opposed
to any kind of change. Speaker J enkin Coles is
one of the 13, and for ordinary purposes that
brings the Tory party, in and out of office, down to
17. The Progressive party, on the other hand,
numbers 24. The Liberal nine follow L. O’Lough-
lin, a farmer-member of a very good type, who
supported the Cockburn Government, was subse-
quently Kingston’s whip, then became Commis-
sioner for Lands for Kingston, and later held the
same position in the Holder Cabinet. He also
lasted with Jenkins until Jenkins turned his coat.
Price cannot form a stable Ministry on his own ;
in fact, without an alliance it is doubtful if he
will even be asked to form a Ministry. And if
he did form a Ministry, he couldn’t, with his
numbers, go the whole hog—he probably couldn’t
get as near the entire animal that rushed down a
steep place in Galilee as if he made an alliance
beforehand, and got a more-or-less guaranteed
majority by sharing portfolios. There is a local
precedent: the Labor party allowed its leader,
Batchelor, to join Holder, and nothing dreadful
happened; Batchelor remained (and still re-
mains) a good Laborite, and the Labor party
didn’t lose its individuality. It is now, therefore,
up to Price to treat with O’Loughlin, as Holder
formerly treated with Batchelor.
4
The Tomahawk from Behind.
A letter with some elements of truth in it: —
A widely-spread legend declares you should never let
an Australian aborigine walk behind you, especially if he
has a tomahawk. It isn’t safe. No matter what kindness
or service you have done him, hereditary instinct or an
impulse of racial revenge may prompt him to crack your
skull.
A doubtfully-based theory suggests that, under the
influence of climate, the White Australian is growing like
the aborigine—light-minded, irresponsible, a creature of
shallow impulses, incapable of serious will or protracted
endeavor. Prom the portrait of a local authoress a Bul-
letin correspondent has even argued a physical rever-
sion.
Join legend and theory together and you get an ex-
planation of the malignant way in which some Labor
papers tomahawk their own friend anonymously, from
behind. The organs of capital are too wise to imitate
them. Rarely ip the Tory press is a blow struck that will
help the enemy, Bpt no sooner does Labor elect a man to
represent it than often he becomes a butt —not for criti-
cism, not for honest attack, but for little personalities—
the tomahawk of the man behind.
Quote this paragraph from Charters Towers (Q.) New
Eagle of June 17 :
“ The Mundic Miner prints that Home-Secretary Airey
and Mr. Tom Mann travelled from Townsville to Maekay
in the same boat, the former in the saloon and the latter
in the steerage, and that Mr. Airey, occupied with a novel,
(fid not even deign to recognise Mr. Mann.
“‘Judging by this paragraph,’comments the Federal,
.the Townsville Labor paper, ‘ Mr. Airey had all the best
of the deal.’ But at the Towers Mr. Airey was sadly
Shocked whilst seated ip his reserved special carriage, and
there Mr. Mann came out,top-dog in the show. This is
how it happened. Mr. Mann had been wading in helping
to make the Eight Hours Carnival a huge success, and,
late ip the afternoon, when he got the opportunity, he
left quietly, intending to catch the train and leave the
goldfield without any hub-bub. Several Labor women
missed Mr. Mann. Divining his strategy, they immediately
drove to the railway station, and were just in time to hear
Che platform porter roaring' ‘ Take your seats, please ! ’
Rushing along the platform they were hailed by a bald-
pated patriot, who seemed well pleased to think that the
Towers Labor women had come to the station to see him.
The patriot happened to be Pet)?r the Poet. The women
ignored the milk-white paw he reached through the win-
dow of the airy reserved carriage, and said, ‘ Oh, we don’t
want you. We carrie to 'see Mr. Mann off. Whereis he ? ’
Mr. Airey was so shocked that he pointed to a second-
class carriage in the rear, whele Mr. Mai<n Was discovered
discussing Socialism with some horny-handed hewers of
rock and hardy bush-workers.
“ From what the New Eagle knows of Mr. Mann’s
movements the day of the Eight-Hours Garni veil, the above
tallies with them most accurately, and the probability is,
therefore, that the remarks, so far as they relate to Mr.
Airey, are correct.”
Now, if there is a better democrat in Queensland than
Peter Airey, Australia does not know him. He has
brains and character above the average. He was a good
schoolmaster, and he is a good Minister. His democratic
verses have been quoted all over the world. He has made
his home and reared his family in Australia. He has
clean hands. He comes to Parliament as a representative
of Labor—and mark how Labor papers unite to belittle
him ! He is contrasted with Tom Mann, to Mann’s advan-
tage. He travels in a “ reserved special carriage.”
Does the tomahawker not realise .that a Minister
has heavy responsibilities ? That his time, and
health, and rest are precious? That it is his
duty, when travelling, to travel as comfortably as he can,
in order to conserve energies often over-taxed by impera-
tive official labor ? If this is realised, it is at once for-
gotten in the impulse to bury the tomahawk in the man
in front, just because he is in front.
And note the personal sneers. Airey is “ a bald-pated
patriot.” He has a “ milk-white paw.” Is hair, then, the
test of a good democrat? Are hands? In another mood, the
tomahawker would be found praising the democratic school-
master as one of the best bricks in the democratic building.
He would be found denouncing the assertion that the Labor
party hates brains. Yet because Airey’s necessary and
valuable office as schoolmaster has left him indoors, bet-
tering children’s brains and his own, and his hands are
not the brown, hairy hands of a manual laborer, the
Townsville Labor paper recklessly tries to wound him—
injure him ; and the other Labor paper reprints the
sneers acquiescingly. Simply because Airey is in front,
and the man with the tomahawk is behind.
Labor in polities is frequently able to treat its enemies
in a generous spirit. Why cannot it refrain from per-
sonally belittling its friends ? Individual malevolence is a
Party danger.
♦ “
The “ S.M. Herald’s ” Nigger Labor
Authority.
The S.M. Herald, last Saturday, turned its most
superior pedant on to reviewing a book, with
results of which the following is a sample
“ The Far Eastern Tropics,” by Alleyne Ireland, con-
tains the result of the author’s study of the administra-
tion of tropical dependencies by Great Britain, 1 ( ranee,
Holland, and the United States. . . . Mr. Ireland tells us
that “ in no part of the tropics can manual labor be per-
formed by white men.” Against this we have the uniform,
machine-made opinion of the Socialist members of the
Federal Parliament, that manual labor in the tropics
must be performed by white men ; and that, if facts are
against the Labor platform, the industries in the tropical
regions of Australia must be abandoned or else surren-
dered to Chinamen. To be sure, Mr. Ireland has made a
special study of colonisation in tropical regions. He
spent ten vears in travelling in tropical countries. . . .
Possibly he knows more than any other authority about
the subject which he has made his own. . . . But the
Labor members have travelled from Dan half-way to Beer-
sheba in the Australian tropics, and they find that the
work is eminently suitable for white men. They looked
at things through the windows of first-class carnages,
and creature comforts were administered to them upon
occasion. Wherefore they decided that the tropics are a
paradise for the working white man.
Surely “Mr. James’s” fool of a paper need not
be such a raging and exuberant ass as this ? lhe
Herald might kindly answer these three ques-
tions :
(1) As regards its ill-bred sneer about how Labor
members “looked at things through the window of a
first-class carriage” (the Herald speaks as if its own
creature, Bruce Smith, always travelled in a cattle truck
or ran behind, holding on to the buffer), has the Herald
the courage to say honestly that this is the only way the
Labor members got their knowledge of the country r Will
it sav straight out that the North Queensland Labor
members, who are about the strongest of all for keeping
their country white, never saw their own districts except
through the window's of a first-class carriage?
(2) When the Herald vapors so much about its unknown
o-lobe-trotter being an infallible authority on the Austra-
lian tropics, because he claims to have spent fen. years in
tropical countries (mostly outside Australia), is it pre-
pared to give its assurance that there are not Labor
members of the White Australia persuasion who have lived
and 'worked in the tropics for longer than that > Purely
when Australia has men of sense and education who have
been in the tropics for 30 and 40 years, it is a silly paper
which jumps at the conclusion that a globe-trotter of 10
years’ alleged trot is the world’s boss authority on the
subject? . ,
(3) Will the Herald, instead of being so dead sure, on
the word of a brief English tourist with ten years’ experi-
ence (mostly in Asia), that white men can t work in the
Australian tropics, come down to business and say that
white men don’t, work on the Palmer, at Charters Towers,
Hu<>henden, and hundreds of other places, and show a
smaller death-rate than in England ? Is it prepared to
swear that the map is a lie, and the census a myth, and
the mortality statistics a fabrication ? For, if it isn t, it is
i n the position of the ten learned bookworms, who haggled,
and argued, and looked up the tomes of many learned
authorities, to find out how many legs a horse had, when
the animal was standing outside the door all the while,
and its hoofs might have been counted at any moment.
If the Herald doesn’t answer these questions
satisfactorily, The Bulletin’s minion will ring at
the proprietor’s door-bell punctually at 2 a.m. and
ask for a categorical reply. And he will do this
every morning till the reply is forthcoming.
The latest statistics of N.S.W. manufactures
show that the best-paid workers are those engaged
in docks and ship-repairing yards, railway work-
shops, gas works, electric works, and smelting
works on mines; and from this fact Sydney
Twaddlegraph deduces a Freetrade moral
The first five items on the list are natural industries,
which Protection can only injure, and those pay the best.
The other way to put it is that the industries in
qustion are a magnificent result of the benefits of
Protection. They are protected to the extent of
more than ten thousand per cent.; in fact, in their
case the Protection amounts to complete prohibi-
tion. You can’t import repairs to ships or loco-
motives, nor can you bring in gas and electricity
in a paper bag. When Nature prohibits importa-
tion in that fashion it supplies the most tremendous
Protection on record. And it is those most highly-
protected industries that pay the best wages. If
other industries got the same measure of Protec-
tion they might pay equally well.
The Boyne-water push has been reasonably quiet
pf late re the over-crowding of N.S.W. civil ser-
vice with Roman Catholics; the religious cen-
sus pf civil servants which it drove the State
Government into taking showed it up as such
an amazing liar that it had to go away
and breathe heavily in a corner for a while.
However, having got its second wind, it has now
resumed the same old narrative, and says firmly
that the 60 Protestant members in the Assembly
.will have to “act” in this matter. And, on the
whole, it seems to be time they did. A small mob
of bigots gets into the Assembly year after year op
the assurance that it is goingto oppose the “machi-
nations of Rome,” yet nothing happens. The Bill
to disfranchise Catholics, or to shut them out of the
civil service, or to restrict their churches, or to
abolish their sisterhoods, or to discourage them in
.any way—where is it ? It is only about once in
ten years that one of the men who regularly
gets into Parliament to “ oppose the machinations
of Rome” even screws up courage to put a
silly question about Rome on the notice paper.
And outside the House the party only tells weird
stories about girls, imprisoned in R.C. sisterhoods,
who escaped on to the top of the outer wall,
and there howled for aid into a crowded street
.for 26 minutes without being heard ; and re-
sumes the twaddlesome tale it lias been
.telling for years about the man (no name
given) who “was unable as a Protestant
to getback into the civil service,” but
got a feIOOO-a-year billet there as soon as he turned
'R.C. It iS about time the N.S.W. Assembly
summoned Parson Rutledge before it so that he
might supply particulars about that frequently-
mentioned gentleman.
♦-
In the early days of the Monkey-Bear disturbance
everybody was assured that Japan had no motives
of national greed, and that it fought only to pre-
serve its national existence and to save Korea and
China from foreign domination. It was a beauti-
ful tale which almost moved the World to tears,
and Japan loomed up as a pure and noble Monkey,
with a golden halo round its tail, and the white
flower of a blameless life sticking out of its ear.
Then it transpired that Japan was going to rob
China of Port Arthur and the Liao tung peninsula
just as Russia did, and the halo began to look a
trifle brassy in places. Next, Japan installed
itself as “suzerain” of Korea, and already it has
turned its suzerainty into actual ownership. The
Japs have taken over the police and military
business; they collect the revenue and order it to
be paid into the Japanese National Bank ; they
run the Government departments by means of
Jap “advisers”; they are expelling Koreans
wholesale from official posts; they are already
allotting stolen Korean lands to 60,000 Jap settlers;
and they have arranged that, as regards fishing
and Korean coastal and river navigation, Japan
shall have certain advantages which should, in
course of time, enable it to elbow other nations
out of the business. On top of all this it begins
to be understood that Japan intends retaining
Manchuria and doing the same there, so the halo
of disiuterestedness hardly shines at all now around
the Monkey’s tail, and the white flower of a noble
and generous purpose has dropped entirely out of
its ear.
♦ . .
The Labor party seems to be getting into the
habit of dropping things. The Westralian party
had a nine-hour caucus meeting recently, at which
it was decided to drop the private-railway issue—
“a sort of compromise was arrived at by allowing
members a free hand to individually oppose or
support the (Pilbarra syndicate-railway) scheme.”
The party is pledged to nationalise monopolies,
but a railway is a monopoly which apparently
doesn’t count. At the very moment when it is
toying with this particular syndicate-railway busi-
ness the whole State has been violently cursing
the Midland Railway monopoly, and blaming it
for locking up vast areas of rich country, and
blocking agricultural settlement, and the Govern-
ment has been pressed and pushed to pay
£1,500,000 and buy the absentee land-grabber out.
And at the very moment when the Labor Govern-
ment was concluding that one railway syndicate
was too great a curse to be allowed any longer on
the premises, and that it ought to be bought out
at a cost of £1,500,000, the Labor caucus was
deciding that it had no opinion with regard to
letting in another railway syndicate. The party,
moreover, knows, or if it doesn’t know it ought to,
that the Midland syndicate railway isn’t anything
unusual in the way of a curse. It ought to know
that the American private railway is the most
powerful instrument of the blood-sucking trust (in
fact, it is almost the only instrument), and the
greatest corrupting agent in politics. And yet
the Westralian Labor party hasn’t any opinion on
this subject. Having sunk the fiscal issue, and
buried the syndicate-railway issue, and dropped
the no-more-borrowing issue overboard, it shouldn’t
have much difficulty in stowing the White Aus-
tralia issue away in the coal-scuttle and dropping
the rest of its principles behind the grate.
Victorian Premier Bent’s new Secret Commis-
sions Prohibition Bill, drawn up by la,wyer
Mackey and now before the House, practically
follows Lord Russell’s British Apt, but is even
more comprehensive and explicit. A secret com-
mission is practically defined to be one received or
given without the assent of the principal. Acts of
this nature that are already illegal are made
criminal; and if any agent, or company acting as
such, accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept, or
attempts to obtain for himself or. any other person
any gift or consideration which may induce mm
or anyone else to act to the detriment of his
principal, or if anyone who is or appears to be an
applicant for employment gives or offers any
secret com. as an inducement to -the obtaining of
such employment, the person or company sc&l
be guilty of a misdemeanor, lenalty sprear.s
up to £5OO or two years’ imprispnment with
or without hard labor, or it may include both
fine and gaol. The honorary_ and awful ,1.1.
is not to be allowed to nullify this law by


Caillcr’s
Swiss Milk
Chocolate'
OMPETITION
FREE
WATCHES
for
Everybody.
Four 18-carat Gold Watches Worth 15 Guineas each.
200 ladies’ Keyless Corsage Watches. 72 Gent’s Keyless Lever
Watches, going 8 days. SEND YOUR ADDRESS on a
Post Card, for FULL PARTICULARS of the above COM-
PETITION.
CAILLER’S
Mutual 1,1 fe Building,
Martin Place,
SYDNEY
m
jm
llahens’
i HAVE STOOD THE]
TEST of TIME
'& AREG®IHG STRONG
Lwithouttheaid
OFTRUSTosCPMBINE
The Quality alone
assuring it* success
Gold
\®
PijarcfNs
v &Tob&c<o
■(HAvycuT)
Tobacco
fining the offender 2s. 6d.; the matter is to go
before the Supreme Court. No representative
commercial man has said anything yet about this
“restriction of private enterprise.” The Butter
Commission’s exposures are a trifle too recent for
that.
♦
Actuary Teece, of the A.M.P. Society, who has
had a good deal to say about Socialistic legislation
one time and another (he hasn’t said so much
about it lately, by the way), has made up these
remarkable figures regarding infant deaths in
Sydney : —
City. Suburbs.
1881-1885 84-31 per 1000 74-15 per 1000
1886-1890 .. „ .. 70-40 „ 57 '31 „
1891-1895 62-56 „ 45'29 „
1896-1900 49-43 M 38-60 „
1901-1904 47-60 „ 36-60 „
Melbourne figures (city and suburbs) have been
brought down from 59 "20 to 39 "96 per thousand.
In these 24 years there has been a steady advance
in State Socialism—in Socialistic education, So-
cialistic drainage, Socialistic inspection of dairies
and milk supply, Socialistic water supply, and in
the work of the Socialistic Health Department.
And the result is that, in Sydney, only one little
Australian dies now where two little Australians
died before.
—♦
A light has just been thrown on the reckless
extravagance of local government administration
in Westralia by a series of prosecutions initiated
by the State Audit Department. Coolgardie,
which has sunk to the level of a fourth-rate village
as things are understood in the East, has not only
a mayor and council, a gaudy town clerk, and a
small army of rate collectors, nuisance inspectors,
and other officials, but also runs a Roads Board.
Last year the income of the Board was £1100, of
which Government supplied more than half in
the form of subsidy and special grants. Adminis-
tration expenses absorbed £800, leaving only £300
for the maintenance of the few bush tracks outside
the town boundary which have not yet been
swallowed up by the encroaching wilderness.
The secretary, who draws £4 a week, apparently
found his non-official work —he is secretary of
the racing club and many other things—
interfered with his duties, and he engaged clerical
assistance which he charged up to the Board. He
was supposed to provide his own office, but sent
in a bill for furniture to the Board, the chairman
of which complacently passed the accounts just as
they were presented. Nothing more would have
been heard of the affair but for the State auditor,
who demurred, and instituted proceedings for the
refund of these and 30 or 40 other items. In nearly
every instance an order was made against the
Board. One amount of £25 was for the expenses
of delegates to a Roads Board conference picnic
at the seaside. As there are about 50 Roads Boards
in Westralia, and the auditors are just warming to
their work, some interesting disclosures are likely
to be made concerning the distribution of the
municipal subsidy. Last year a couple of muni-
cipal councils were voted £200 a-piece for fire
brigade purposes, and the amounts are unclaimed
simply because neither possesses a brigade of any
description.
+
The old unpleasantness between the two big
miners’ unions of the Westralian goldfields has
been wiped out by the A.M.A. absorbing the
A.W.A. The A.W.A. had a great start on the
fields; then the A.M.A. came with a rush, with
“Billy” Johnson, now Minister for Works, and
the biggest influence in Westralian Labor politics,
doing the organising. Th e A. W. A. (Amalgamated
Workers’Association) was the organ of the digger
and the prospector and the dry-blower ; and,
though the digger is practically always a Radical,
he isn’t always dead-gone on the Labor party—it
doesn’t give him enough room to roam around
in. So it was the A.M.A. (Amalgamated Miners’
Association) which jumped into Labor politics
with most enthusiasm, and with “ Billy” Johnson
always leading the way. Though the A.W.A.
came along later, the other had got such a start
that Minister for Mines Gregory finally decided
only to recognise the A.M.A. as the miners’
spokesman. Then the Arbitration Court, with its
preference conditions, made things further un-
Eleasant for the A.W.A., until it finally asked to
3 swallowed ; and, though they didn’t rush the
proposal, the Miners agreed in the end, and thus,
by combining, fixed up one of the most robust
labor bodies in Australia.
+
Some higher authority than a N.S.W. Supreme
Court Judge will have to wrestle with the ques-
tion whether the reports of a trade protection
society to its clients are privileged. The law is in
a fog at present. The American Supreme Court
has held that they are privileged; ditto Chief
Justice Madden, of Victoria ; while Justice
Cohen follows a N.S.W. Full Court decision and
holds that they are not. Whatever law is finally
laid down on the subject will, therefore, be practi-
oally law made by a bench of Judges; and a Court
at the best isn’t a satisfactory Parliament. The
question really is whether a trade protection con-
cern is in the position of a speeially-trained con-
fidential clerk, making a report to his principals,
or whether it is merely in the position of a news-
paper collecting what information it can, and pass-
ing it on to the public. If the latter is held to be the
trade protection society’s position, then its wings
will be close-clipped, and all the protection it will
give to its clients won’t be worth mentioning.
Also, if the confidential report of a trade pro-
tection office isn’t privileged what about
“ bankers’ opinions,” of which hundreds are
asked for and given every day?
“Real working women must support them-
selves wholly by their labor ; but many women go
to work only to earn pin-money, and, as they can
afford to work more cheaply, they set the standard
of wages in their particular line. Do you
wonder that every year sees an enormous sacrifice
offered by Mammon to Venus, a long procession of
those who are unable to support themselves by the
wages they can earn, and who, therefore, turn to
that trade, the only one, I think, where novices
are better paid than experts ? ” — The Rev. W. H.
van Allen, Boston.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Way to Kenmare.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Mail.”
Criterion “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Queen’s Hall New Folly Co.
Tivoli...: Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Beauty and The Barge.”
Her Majesty’s “ The School for Scandal."
Theatre Royal “The Flood Tide.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall. °onoert
-*%.
J. C. Williamson’s Repertoire Co. is
filling the last week of the season at Sydney
Royal with the quips and quaint, infectious melo-
dies of “The Mikado,” written at a time when it
wasn’t such a sacrilege as it is now to hang a fri-
volous jest on the end of the Monkey’s fly-shifter—
when Gilbert could write the song of the “Moon
and I,” and make fun of the artless Monkey way
of considering its tail the very finest tail in
all the world. Though “ The Mikado” would be
entertaining even if it reached us through a
cracked gramaphone, and though Saturday night’s
performance was out of sight better than that, still
it didn’t reach the level of the things that had
been resurrected earlier in the season. Kenning-
ham, who had lifted “The Yeoman of the
Guard” right out of the ruck, and had made
“The Gondoliers” sparkle in patches, was
nipped in the throat by the cold snap which
that morning carried the temperature down to the
lowest point Sydney had shivered under for 10
years ; and Ernest Fitts, though he sang well, was
not a magnificent enough Pooh Bah. Howard
Vernon was, of course, the Executioner, and
added to the list of those who never would be
missed the Stinking Fish person who has a good
word for every country but his own. Miss Dolly
Castles’ success was greatest in the “Moon and
I ” gem, and Miss Thorne shared her honors. But
nothing in this revival was more bracing than
Miss Ghiloni’s Katisha. Here the experienced
actress stood out—much like the formidable
monster’s tooth that stood alone. F. Wilson’s
Mikado was good, too; his voice still clear as a
frosty night, his enunciation perfect. The choruses
were admirable, as usual. Friday night sees the
last of the Rep. Co. in Sydney for the present.
** * *
The ever-welcome Widow O’Brien will
rustle her skirts and resume her fancy work at
Sydney Criterion next Saturday, and there is no
need to give the perfectly gratuitous information
that Mr. Sheridan will be the Widow. Produc-
tion of “ The Earl and the Girl,” which is a
troublesome and elaborate affair, is postponed till
Saturday week.
#* * *
Andrew Mack will discard Tom Moore’s
knee-breeches after the show at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) on Friday night. There will be regret
in the parting; for the Thomas of this drama is
something quite new in the way of heroes. No
other that The Bulletin knows of has ever spent
the cold third act in the outer darkness of unde-
served reproach and ignominy by reason of a poem.
The forged letter, the forged marriage certificate,
the forged wife, the forged child, the forged murder
—all these have served a thousand times; there
is a freshness about the forged poem, attacking
Moore’s patron, which sends him back to obscurity
—to be rescued, of course, in time to get a bit of
supper before the last trams leave. On Saturday
night Mr. Mack will enter on “ The Way to
Kenmare,” which is a very pleasant way down
towards Killarney—very pleasant, that is, when
you can see it for rain and mist and fog, and when
you don’t have to plough through slush to reach
the Blarney Stone, which is also thereabouts.
Most of the co. is alleged to have made a pil-
grimage to the Stone for the special purpose of
this production ; and the scenic effects are men-
tioned as also something extra-special.
** * *
“The Great Thurston,” a magician from
across the blue Pacific, who promises to get all
Sydney guessing at the Palace at an early date, is
the latest star under Edwin Geach’s direction. A
young man, after “ Nikola ” in appearance, with
a young wife (their combined ages may total 40
summers), and originally educated for the church,
as an ardent disciple of Moody and Sankey. Now
he is evidently a disciple of a gentleman commonly
known as Old Nick.
** « *
Not oft in the stilly night does The Bul-
letin enjoy itself as it did last Saturday evening.
It took its girl and went to the American Theatre-
scope at Sydney Lyceum. Even before the theatre
was reached there was promise of humor. As
writer and girl passed a draper’s shop in the
neighborhood, a young man who walked the pave-
ment, praising the goods inside the shop, mur-
mured in the girl’s ear: ‘ ‘ Openwork stockings, only
a penny a pair to-night, madam. ” Shows how prices
of the greatly-ventilated article fall with the
temperature. When Senora Spencer, “the only
lady operator in the world,” threw on the screen a
wrestling match in which the large, fat wrestler is
so heavily thrown that he breaks into five pieces—
his four limbs are separated from the trunk—it
causes a rather sick feeling. But the girl, who is
going to learn nursing, was delighted. She said
it was a splendid lesson in anatomy. And
when the limbs and trunk re-united, apparently
of their own volition, and the body rose and re-
newed the fight with great fury, the girl asserted
that the Senora was the greatest operator, male or
female, in the world. She beat any sawbones at
the hospitals. An attractive picture was the visit
of the King and Queen to Ireland. A launch
rushed up a glittering streak of water and the
Royal persons proceeeded to disembark. Now
The Bulletin girl persisted that the streak
of water was the Danube. The Bulletin pointed
out that it couldn’t be, as the landing
was effected at Cork, and the blue Danube waltzes
elsewhere. But the girl said no Americans could
deceive her about the Austrian stream. She had
a picture of it at home, and it had a bend in it,
and it glittered like this one. A scene of a man
painting a fence was interesting. At least it
would have been if the girl hadn’t insisted that the
painter was Norman Lindsay. Asked for reason
of her assertion, she said, “It looked like
Lindsay,” which was just the kind of reply that
the New Creature with the Long Hair in
“Adam’s Diary” used to make. There" were
scores of other dazzling scenes (it is a sorrowful
thing, this dazzle), from Skating in Canada to
Advertising for a Husband. Also a melodious
enough orchestra.
** * *
Mr. Watkins-Mills’ quartette of singers
will marshal themselves in choral array at Sydney
Town Hall next Saturday night. “Flora’s
Holiday” and the “Daisy Chain” ought to
make golden the hours from eight to ten,
with a bit of time over to allow for the
rapacity of persons who sing out “ecooo” which
is their equivalentior “encore.” Meanwhile the
gifted Heermann, his fiddle and his bow, and his
son and his fiddle and bow, are doing as well as
can be expected with programmes of exalted
beauty at the same old hall. Mr. W. A. Laver,
of the Melb. Conservatorium, who acts as aocom-
panist to his old master, is the harmonious-looking,
dark-eyed musical enthusiast who was recom-
mended by Heermann for the Ormond chair of
music fifteen years ago.
** * *
The Tivoli’s newest comer is Leo Dryden,
who is more Dryden than Leo, and nothing
tremendous in the way of a “descriptive vocalist.”
Frank Leon has returned with the dances that the
gallery loves; Millis has brought back his ventri-
loquial turn, which is extra good in patches ; and
a large number of others fill the bill with middle-
sized letters.
** * *
Frank M. Clark, who ought to know most
things there are to know about running a variety
business, is settled comfortably in Queen’s Hall,
Sydney, and is hitting the south end of Pitt-
street with popular prices and a “ bevy of
beauty ” in the sort of clothes that footballers
wear.
** * *
Melbourne roared a great welcome to its
old friends among the Brough-Flemming Comedy
Co. when they made their reappearances at the
Princess’s last Saturday night; and, in a less
degree, the reception given to “ Beauty and the
Barge ” was encouraging. Described as a New
Farce, this attempt to dramatise the humor of
W. W. Jacobs, the farcical story-writer, might be
more aptly termed a Picturesque Frivolity. A
few well-drawn characters are associated in a
series of incidents, whilst a number of
definite characters figure in a faint sug-
gestion of love - narrative which doesn’t
even pretend to be interesting. And yet
the effect, of the performance is striking. The
stage pictures remain on the memory, pleasant
things to think about, lessons in human nature —
some of them. Not to see the shallow Jezebelic
lady of the “Old Ship” express her jealousy by
flinging lumps of sugar at Captain Barley, to dis-
tract his elderly gallantries from Ethel Smedley
and bring him back to his yellow-haired goddess,
is to miss a remarkable illustration of bar-room
life. Now, women in general have an itching
curiosity concerning the social mysteries of the
world where their yellow-haired sisters sell beer.
« * * *
Captain Barley is the typical bargee of
Jacobs’ fiction, a harmless, lively old philanderer,
quite irresistible among the class of female persons
who say, “Get along with you.” Mrs. Baldwin,
the grim-faced housekeeper at Major Smedley’s,
reckons Barley a king of hearts, and Mrs. Porter,
the blousy charmer at the pub., makes indignant
reference to his advanced age when he gets struck
on a new girl. The new girl wishes to flee from
home on Barley’s barge. A young naval officer
follows her aboard the humble craft, disguised as
mate (having paid the real mate £5 to be violently
ill), and when the barge drops anchor by the
margin of a meadow, the girl’s relatives come
along, and find her in love with the lieutenant, and
there the droll idyll terminates. .Barley’s
dream of platonic conquest is rudely shattered,
but he bestows a paternal blessing on Beauty,
and resumes the business of river naviga-
tion, which had been suspended for picnic
purposes. It goes without saying that Brough is
a spry and likeable old Barley. He doesn’t seem
to revel in the part, and he might put a little
unctuousness into his philandering, but he leaves
no room for doubt that Brough’s popularity as a
comedian will be strengthened rather than
otherwise by his latest impersonation. A more
surprising success is Miss Bessie Major, as the
amorous housekeeper, one of the funniest old-
woman sketches that Melbourne has seen. Miss
Major, in appearance and style, is here unrecog-
nisable as the plump and smiling housekeeper to
the Village Priest in days of yore. Miss E. Temple
makes the most of her yellow-haired barmaid
character, and the sweet heroine of the Barge is
prettily played by Miss Winifred Fraser, whose
first and only duty is to give an air of reality to
artificial situations. Carter Pickford, the pnnci-
Sal young man, shares this duty with Miss Fraser.
ohn Forde and eight other people—mostly new-
comers—are required during the three short acts,
and the show is admirably staged. Harry Waite,
the scenic artist, gets his best work into the third
scene, a charming, though rather over-colored,
land and water-scape, with the Barge in the
middle of it.
** # *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) a thoroughly
inartistic performance of “School for Scandal”
will continue for one weeic only. A comedy by
Sheridan is bright or dull, according to how it is
acted, dressed, and mounted. Nothing short of a
clever performance by a well-balanced company,
which carries fine clothes in a decorative manner,
can make “ The School for Scandal” as interest-
ing these times as, say, a respectable amateur
production of “The Liars.” The actors must
give it the atmosphere and moral tone of its
period, a period when the ideal young hero was a
gaudy waster with no visible means
except his father or uncle. Charles Surface, at
Her Majesty’s, is an amazing caricature of that
bygone young man. Sir Peter Teazle is M‘Kee
Rankin, heavier, slower, and more mumbling
than he was five years ago. Miss Nance O’Neil,
judged by her spiritless work on Saturday, is
taking a despondent view of Lady Teazle, and
the other guests at Lady Sneerwell’s scandal-
mongery are in keeping with the furniture. A
revival of “ Ingomar ” comes due next Saturday.
** * *
“ The Flood Tide ” rises every evening at
the Melbourne Royal, and of the
characters in Bland Holt’s mdpfhrce are still
numbered up to 51 to save his patrons the trouble
of counting them. A procession of 51 different
characters through a series of 12 scenes is a
bewildering spectacle. Probably the stage-mana-
fer is the only person who can tick them off.
’resent scribe has made several attempts'to grasp
“The Flood Tide” in its entirety, and get the
full strength of the company under his mental
control, but on each occasion he has been blocked
by the discovery that, whereas five persons profess
to be either Thompson, or Mrs. Thompson, or
Thompson’s mother-in-law, nobody of that name
appears in the Royal army list, and there is no
evidence to show whether the name in question is
spelt with a “p” or an “h,” or would prefer to
be known as Tomson pure and simple.
#* * *
The Bijou will lose the run of Sanford’s
American players this week. On Saturday those
furious performers will farewell in “Tempest
Tossed, ” after which they go on a blood-curdling
tour. Next week Gregan M’Mahon’s forces—the
Players—are to make a first appearanoe in musical
comedy, and the task that confronts them is “The
French Maid.”
** * *
George Fuller Golden, the man who occa-
sionally talks to King Edward as nobody else
ever talks, carried his tongue from Sydney to
Melbourne last week, and resumed his flow of
language at the Opera House on Saturday. For
the next few weeks the old axiom that silence is
golden will carry no weight in the neighborhood
of George Fuller. Diamond and Beatrice (why
wasn’t she christened Ruby ?) have also arrived to
keep the Gothams, Fanny Powers, and other
members of the co. in countenance what time
Golden shines supreme.
** * *
From the steepled city :
“ Quality Street,” making its first Australian appear,
ance at Adelaide Royal last week, proved to be true
Barrie. That is, it is full of dainty humor and unex-
pected hits of “ business,” but also it has its trivialities
and its tedious moments. The author never seems sure
of his own standpoint. Thus the pestilent female who
always laughs in public places has more excuse than
usual; also, the heavy foot of an indignant patron stam-
peding from the gallery may be heard at intervals. The
period is that of Waterloo, and the costumes are a great
joy to women, for whom the play is designed (man is a
mere incident in it; it is a real matinee piece). Valentine
Brown is a young doctor, who goes to the wais
after making one Phoebe fall in love with him.
His own attitude is merely friendly, and, when he returns
after ten years, he finds her old (at 30) and ugly, (in a
hideous cap). Anon, he sees her dancing aloiie in a lfall-
dress, in a fit of youthfulness, and fails to
So she pas-es herself off as her own niece, and the rest is
obvious—though the end is reached by indirect means,
for he finds the niece flippant and odious, and assures her
that he much prefers her aunt. Brough did good work
r a the dashing soldier, but the part is not built for him.
Miss Winifred Fraser had a big chance at last as Phoebm
and fairly carried the plaj r on her back ; it was not her fatfll
that the author interrupts the pathetic scenes with
comedy touches every half-minute or so. Miss Beatrice
Day was a gentle spinster sister reputed to put frills
on the legs of the sofa. The rest were merely striking
costumes with a few lines to say.
Mrs. Brough closed the Adelaide season with one per-
formance of “ Niobe,” and met with a roof-raising recep-
tion. She made a still charming, if rather mature,
statue ; after all, the tearful Niobe was herself a numerous
matron. Van Biene has filled the vacant place, and is
putting some fine music into a very moderate play for
four nights only. Also Frank Clark has re-opened the
deserted Tivoli with a merry variety crowd that includes
Harry Shine.
Died in Adelaide, aged 71, Tom Coward, a
well-known Adelaide identity. Deceased came to
the State in 1840. When 13 years old he ran away
from home, and went to work on his own account.
In ’52 he joined the mounted police, and he was
in all the four gold escorts by which S.A.,
in 1852, brought over £1,000,000 in dust
and nuggets from Bendigo and Castlemaine,
and ' made £20,000 in escort fees. At
this time Adelaide was almost deserted.
On one occasion Coward brought a captured
murderer 350 miles to Adelaide, chained to him
all the way ; and he was frequently sent into the
bush in search of the passing desperado of the
period. In 1860 he went to Sydney, and was
made sergeant of the gold escort from Snowy River
diggings. Later he weiif to Queensland in search
of the notorious bushranger Gardiner. In ’9l,
Coward returned to Adelaide and took the Prince
Alfred Hotel, where he remained till his death.
In 1893 he stood for the Northern Territory in
the State Parliament, but he was better at
capturing bushrangers than seats, and got only
11 votes. Coward Springs were named after him.


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.—Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock tor manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Kails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS.—Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives — i.e., EVERYTHING.
OSS' Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Prop. Ltd., 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
- Representing Orknstkin and Koppkl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
.1 . .ie es—so 4 Little Collins-st , Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
Antimony Ore
Wanted for Cash.
Address Offers or Particulars to
H.W., Melbourne Office of "The Bulletin/
369 Collins Street.
The Bankers’ Magazine (London) September,
1904, writes re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited :—“ At the close of 1875 its funds amounted to
£2,864, and twenty-eight years thereafter, on December
81, 1903, we find them increased a hundred-fold to
£2,814,795. Roughly speaking, every year, on the
average, has seen £lOO,OOO added to the funds.”*
• » * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Minins’ and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
* * * •
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
E laced an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
oilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
• • * •
Most millmen are scared to crush through fine
screens, owing to the production of slime mineral which
cannot be caught on bumping tables. The Sperry Slimer
will soon put this fear to the right-about. It is a vanning
convex buddle with an adjustable rubber surface. Write
for particulars to N. Guthridge Ltd., Sydney and Mel-
bourne. See bottom of back cover.*
« * * *
Charters Towers. — Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* » * *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely good results. ' Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgoorlie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
* ■* * »
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
» * * *
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knif? edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th =0.005 milligramme=l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377;*
m * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * • *
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor OH,
Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
f&~ Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALDi
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Chrlstohurch.
The Wild Cat Column.
Premier Evans, of Tasmania, announced his
Government’s policy the other night; it includes
“reduction in expenditure, cessation of borrowing until
the deficit has been considerably reduced, a small scheme
of public works, and maintenance of the financial equili-
brium between revenue and expenditure.” In the matter
of borrowing Tasmania is thus going to be honest in
strict moderation. It doesn’t propose to pay its way as
a general thing ; it only proposes to do it until “ the
deficit has been considerably reduced.” What is meant
by deficit isn’t mentioned. Apparently, however, Pre-
mier Evans means the comparatively small amount
which has been borrowed to pay the local police-
man, and to cover Cohen’s interest bill, and for
similar purposes. Tasmania, which is by far the
most lightly-taxed State in the Commonwealth, has,
year after year, gone a bit to the bad even on
revenue account, and has borrowed to make up the
deficiency ; in other words, it has borrowed and spent the
money, and then borrowed more to pay the interest; so
that the present generation has refused to tax itself to
pay its own debts, and has meanly passed its bills on to
the next generation, and left the latter nothing to show
for it—not evemftJanaken .bridge or a choked culvert. The
exact amount iff of deficit isn’t clear. In 1903,
however, £107,330 of Treasury bills “ in aid of revenue ”
were issued, and there have been two deficits since then.
Moreover, in 1895 and other early years bills were floated
for the same purpose ; but they were not all wanted, and
as some of the money was spent on works, the whole lot
was subsequently charged to works account. Premier
Evans evidently means that when he has paid off £lOO,OOO
or so of this deficit, he will (if he is there) tap Cohen
again with all the old vigor.
But, of course, that isn’t the Tasmanian deficit
at all. To the end of 1904 Tasmania owed £8,940,715,
after making every allowance for sinking funds, &c. The
interest charges on its debt amounted to £341,627. Yet
in that year, after paying working expenses and mainten-
ance, the whole of the undertakings in which Cohen’s
money has been sunk yielded only £92,228. Instead, there-
fore, of being worth about £9,000,000, Cohen’s money is re-
presented by undertakings which, looked at in a cold com-
mercial atmosphere, would have to be cut down to about
£2,500,000. Even then they would show a smaller return
than 4 per cent. And 1904 wasn’t an exceptional year—
unless it was exceptionally good. In 1903 the net return
was but £68,000, which would make the capital value of
the business less than £2,000,000. The Tasmanian deficit
isn’t, therefore, a mere £120,000 or so. It is £6,620,000
or so. That is the amount which will have to be
paid off before Tasmanian loan works, on the basis
of recent profits, can show that they earn even
interest. If Premier Evans means that he is dead
„ against borrowing until the State has wiped out
this appalling deficit, and paid back 13s. in the £ of all its
present liabilities, The Bulletin will accept it as a reason-
able undertaking to go on with. It won’t be anything to
boast of ; there isn’t anything to boast of when a bank
which has accepted large amounts of deposits, and sunk
them in rotten securities, makes calls, and writes
down its capital to make good its own losses. The bank
that even hesitates to do this is sniffed at; and a State
might be expected to be at least as honest as a bank.
* * * *
Premier Daglish recommends the Westralian
Parliament to make a deal with the Midland Railway Co.,
buying it out for £1,500,000. Co.’s profits are about
enough to pay 4 per cent, on £900,000 ; the ocher £600,000
is for the 2,350,000 acres which are left of the land
the State gave away about 16 years ago. This is at the
rate of about ss. an acre ; and only a little more than a
third of the area can be classed as fit for agriculture.
Four years ago the concern could have been bought out
for £1,300,000 ; but then Railway Engineer O’Connor, a
capable man, reported that to buy at that figure would be
little short of a swindle. Since then the price has been
jumped £200,000, apparently on the strength of the much-
boomed demand for farm land. The State has been
spending thousands in booming its resources after jobbing
those resources away, and as it didn’t have the ordinary
business capacity to level things up by putting
on a stiff graduated land-tax, it merely boomed an
absentee octopus’s property, and now is squeezed of an
extra £200,000 in consequence. Presumably Daglish will
pay with the usual State I O U ; he certainly can’t pay
any other way. One result of this will be that, in addi-
tion to the huge sum of undigested Westralian stock
already on the London market, the Midland Railway will
have £1,5.00,000 of paper waiting for sale at the first
movement. Therefore Westralia’s chance of borrowing
anything on its own account for a long period—outside
Australia, anyway—is Buckley’s. Also it is Mud. Even if
the co. hangs on to Daglish’s I O U, it will do far better
than it has ever done hitherto; while as for Daglish,
since two-fifths of the £1,500,000 will be represented by
very little of which will be earning anything, he
will have more difficulty than ever in dodging the deficit
which has been in permanent residence on the Treasury
doorstep lately. As he will have more unproductive
debt, and a bigger interest bill, and as he won’t be able
to borrow (he tried the other day, and the underwriters
were left with practically the whole loan), Daglish will
have to either give up the idea of new works altogether,
or make up his mind to collect a great deal more revenue
and spend a great deal less in departmental ham-frill.
If Premier Daglish carries through his Midland
Railway deal, somebody will have to watch what is done
with the land which represents two-fifths of the purchase
money. If, as is most likely, the eyes are picked out and
sold, the chances are that the proceeds will be collared
and used as revenue ; in which case the State will pre-
sently be left with a railway worth £900,000 (less depre-
ciation), said railway carrying a hopeless mortgage of
£1,500,000.
• • • *
S. J. Mitchell, M.P., who represents the
Northern Territory in S.A. Assembly, just returned
from his electorate, and is much disgusted over the
Chinese methods of mining up that way. He says: “ They
work in such 'a way that no white man following them
can do any good at all. They pick the eyes out of the
country, scratch the surface here and there, and leave it
without any definite lead for legitimate white miners to
follow.” Mr. Mitchell says that he is not aware of a single
piece of machinery in the Northern Territory erected by
the Chinese. They come to the country, live on almost
nothing, spend little, work out all patches of auriferous
ground that can be worked without skilled labor and
appliances, and then depart for China with all the wealth
they have got together. An instance in point is that of
the new tinfield at Bynoe Harbor, West Arm, and the
claim known as Hang Gong’s. Hang Gong went there
a little while back, having discovered, through some
natives, the existence of rich tin ore. He employed a
few of his countrymen, and scratched over a few acres of
his 80-acre leSse to a depth of Ift. or 2ft., and extracted—
according to reliable authority—no less than £20,000
worth of tin. . . Everywhere I went,” said Mr. Mit-
chell, “ I saw the evil effects left by the Chinese until I
was fairly sickened. lam not a rabid ‘ White Australian ’
enthusiast, but I am satisfied that the Chinese are a curse
and a menace to the Northern Territory.”
**• * *
Mitchell, M.P., who isn’t a Laborite but a good
deal of a Conservative, reckons that English capital has
been nearly as large a curse in the N.T. as Ah Fat. “ The
introduction of foreign capital” never means work up
there ; it means pouring in a large quantity of foreign
machinery and letting it rust. There are two English
co.’s in the N.T. now ; they have names that sound im-
mense ; both, says Mitchell, “ have great quantities of
machinery lying about which it will be impossible to erect
and which, indeed, there has never been any idea of erect-
ing. The actual work of mining has been badly ne-
glected.” “A big splash and a surface show” sum up
the results in every case.
* * * «
Melbourne Argus has been .scattering words of
wisdom on the debts question. Victoria has heavy loans
falling due ; wherefore the Public Accounts Committee
reported; to Parliament that it is desirable to establish
substantial sinking funds, in order to give the State’s
credit a lift. It seemed a sensible thing to suggest • but
the Arqus says that it is foolish and unnecessary. Nothing
more is needed, it tells Bent, than to gradually replace
the foreign Cohen by a local Cohen. In other words, in-
stead of borrowing abroad, he should borrow some of his
own money, and give himself his own I O U, and call upon
himself regularly every six months to pay himself
interest, and threaten to throw himself out into
the street if he doesn’t pay himself according to
the letter of the bond which he entered into with
himself. If he has the money it does look a great deal
simpler to pay the debt and be done with it, instead of
first borrowing the money from himself in order to do the
same thing with it; and in the end it would save a lot of
unnecessary wear and tear—a lot of unnecessary chasing
of himself to pay himself interest. In short, the man
who has enough money to lend to himself to pay his own
debts with, has enough money to pay the debts themselves
with ; and the person or the State that tries to dodge the
latter simple, obvious plan, and to adopt the complex,
devious process, is pretty sure to be some sort of a shark.
• • • •
Australian banks are still cutting away at the
profits on the once-heavily-gilt foreign-exchange business.
For years they had an agreement as to minimum
charges ; but wool-shipping and other financial concerns
—Dalgety’s and others—cut in ; and when the Bank of
Australasia pulled out, ostensibly to better fight the out-
siders, the whole agreement collapsed. That is one
reason why banking profits sagged last year, notwith-
standing that, on account of the exceptionally large
exports, the exchange business was unusually heavy. The
pinching of profits has not, however, brought the banks
together ; outside competition still continues ; and among
the banks themselves there is a keener rush after the
business than ever. The English banks (which in this
matter mean mostly the Union and the Australasia)
have just agreed to come down still further ; so there is
little prospect of profits from this branch of banking
business looking up just yet.
Otago Farmers’ Co-operative Association,
Ltd. (Maoriland): —
Prnfifa Dividends and lie< *
Jan., 1903 .. £335
Mar., 1904 .. £2489 7Jp.c.=£495 £1994 1659’
Mar., 1905 .. 2326 7j „ „ 690 1636 3295
From the last-named profits and reserves a 4 per cent,
bonus on purchases, and also a 2J per cent, bonus to staff,
have to be paid ; there is no way of ascertaining how much
this will call for till the next balance-sheet is issued,
though it is mentioned that something over £lOOO will
be ultimately available to add to reserves. Capital is now
£9206. Go. is working on a heavy liability, including
£10,705 of fixed deposits, £12,260 of overdrafts, and £4OOO
mortgage; and the principal asset consists of out-
standing accounts, £37,029. This looks a pretty risky way
of doing business, and the sooner the co. ’s own capital is
largely increased the better. Risk of bad debts on the
large turnover seems far too heavy for a co. with the pre-
sent capital to carry. In 1903-4 £827 had to be written
off for bad debts ; last year £4OB, in addition to which
£6OO was put into a reserve against bad debts. With all
the money mentioned above owing, besides £9981 on cur-
rent account, the holding of investments and cash (£2116)
appears to be much too small for safety. It is all right
while things go well; but things can’t be expected to
always go welL
• •» * *
In 12 months the market has sent up aggregate
value of Broken Hill main-lode stocks from £2,760,000 to
£5,080,000. In past six months the jump has been about
£1,000,000, in spite of Junction and Junction North col-
lapses. South has sprung most since the opening of this
year, and been valued lately at £660,000, against B.H
Prop.’s £2,400,000, Sulphide Corporation’s £795,000, and
Block 10’s £345,000. Increase in the smaller co. ’s has been
much greater than in B.H. Prop. ; and so it should have
been. But nothing has happened in the 12 months to
justify all this difference in value ; metal markets
have been good certainly, but those markets are
unstable things, and the fact that a few farthings
more per oz. or a few shillings more per ton can
be got for current output should not affect the value of
the whole mine to any huge extent. Reduction in ex-
penses has been of much more importance ; yet the share
market will keep its eye glued on the metal markets. One
thing seems certain : if the mines were fairly valued at
£2,760,000 12 months ago, they are over-valued now at
£5,080,000. On the other hand, the other mines are,
relatively to B.H. Prop., much more fairly valued now
than they were a while ago, when many of them were
certainly under-valued. Block 10 looks low-priced in
comparison with its neighbors ; but a large difference is
justified. Its area is comparatively small; it is scooped
out to a greater depth ; its ore is not too kindly to
handle ; its reported reserves include a good deal of ore
which will not come up to expectations; and it has
already got rid of and turned into money a fair amount cf
its richer zinciferous tailings. Block 10 had a great vogue
a while back, and no doubt deserved a rise ; but it isn’t a
mine to enthuse over now.
* • • •
B.H. Block 14 keeps most strongly in favor of
all lower-prieed Barrier mines. Things received a fillip
lately through the discovery of a patch of rich ore while
oxidised ore was being rooted out. The find is not of very
much importance, for the chances of this sort of thing
being often repeated are very small; it couldn’t occur
below the oxidised zone, and all ore above that is pretty
well beaten out. Yet the incident will help to keep the
pot boiling, and so stave off either reconstruction or calls
till the main mill begins to talk.
a * * *
Rising Sun was resurrected in Adelaide during
the last Broken Hill flutter, to explore the ruins of a show
between Broken Hill and Pinnacles, abandoned for 10
years past. Co. had very little cash to start with, and has
got down nearly to the bottom of the bag without coming
on anything worth finding. Show had a number of small
veins. Prospects of finding anything big are very obscure,
and the chances of finding anything even moderate are
not rosy. It will probably soon drop out of notice again.
Cobar Gold Mines (N.S.W.), principally known
for its daring in erecting a huge 100-head stamp mill and
accessories before probing the depth of its gold deposits,
is still maturing plans for the re-modelling of plant, the
oxidised ore being just about done. Question of future
treatment lies between smelting and leaching ; but as
there is no known basic ore, former is unlikely, and a
sulphurous leaching policy is more probable. Present
costly plant will have to be sacrificed. Meanwhile the
century of stamps keep the stiffness out of their joints by
running one shift, and the staff is exploiting the cap of
the copper zone, which is said to be from 80 to 100 feet
thick, with high gold values.
* * * *
Chesney Cobar (N.S.W.), recently secured by
The Syndicate, continues to produce large supplies of
silicious ore for fluxing at Great Cobar copper mine. It
also supplies green ore for Lithgow; this goes forward
with the matte. Interesting to note that the copper
value of Chesney stuff (which, incidentally, is all flux to
the Cobar’s basic ore) is of higher value than the Cobar
copper mine’s own stuff. Latter is now only a decimal
over 2 per cent.
• * * *
Occidental, Cobar, which is the first mine
in the State to adopt Moore’s Utah process of slimes
treatment, has, according to reliable accounts, made a
move the right way. Credit really belongs to cyanide-
manager Chappie, who practically demonstrated that
Occidental’s slimes were amenable to this treatment
before recommending purchase ; and as there are some
85,000 tons of 2dwt. stuff in question, there should be a
good surplus. Altogether, month’s clean-up has been
satisfactory. Battery treated 3600 tons (four weeks), and
cvanide vats 4200 tons (six weeks), giving a return of
£4OOO. On this co. will declare a div. ; but in this respect
there isn’t likely to be regularity before end of year.
Meanwhile, Moore’s process should gradually get into the
way of handling 2000 tons of the slimes per month ; and,
out of respect to the mine, these profits should be passed
into reserve.
* * * •
Queen Bee, Cobar, is still dragging along
in upper levels, and reports 40 tons copper for month.
Seeing that No. 3 reverb, came in, with double the
tonnage capacity of the two old furnaces, this yield is
somewhat surprising, as output from aforesaid old fur-
naces always got decently near the same figure. Question
arises whether furnaces or developments of ore bodies are
to blame. Oxidised ores are undoubtedly complex, and
it is certain that clean sulphides are much wanted to in-
crease the output; but, so far, mine lacks development in
sulpide zone. Even if only to more readily and economi-
cally reduce the oxidised ores, management should push
on with a vigorous policy underneath. Also the policy of
dual management which allows the smelting boss to
reinstate the man the mine boss sacked, and vice versd, is
complex. There’s a good deal of honey in the Queen
Bee’s hive, but it wants a lot more sections opened yet;
and even then there will be room for only one boss.
* * * *
Great Peak Extended is a show, under some
Cobarites’ direction, north of the Peak ; it reports having
struck some Bft. of a silver lead ore-body below the 200 ft.
level. So far lode is “ dredgy,” and unlike the usual run
of things around Cobar.
* * * *
Mulga King, a gold show out west, Cobar way,
and on to which a 5-head stamp-mill was thrown, still
behaves no better than a mere C.M.G. Mine was supposed
to have been sampled before battery was built, but a
couple of runs have been unsatisfactory, and his Mulga
Majesty looks like passing out with a cuss.
* « » *
Ivanhoe, Cobar, erstwhile the Phoenix, and al- •
most forgotten, now jubilates over a small copper vein at
200 ft. or thereabouts. From time to time Phoenix has
almost sprung out of its ashes, but then the veins have
turned out provokingly small, and the old bird hasn’t
sprung anything worth mentioning after aIL
* * • *
Golden Fleece, Wyalong (N.S.W.), crushed
344 tons for 5520 z. gold. The stone was taken from the
500 ft. on the western reef, which averages 12in. wide.
Crosscut to eastern reef at 500 ft. is in 50ft. To connect
with crosscut a winze is being put down from the 400 ft.
on the eastern reef, and present appearances point to a
prosperous future. A very satisfactory tribute in the
Hampden (Bunt and party’s) yielded £l4OO, divided
between three men, after paying all exes., for four
months’ work. Another good tribute that promises well
is O’Donnell and party’s at the Operator.
* * * *
Tin-getters are having a razzling time. Twelve
months ago, £llB (and that was high) ; now £l4O. Even
buyers mention £l5O as highly probable. One or two
N.S.W. dredging shows are in clover, or ought to be ;
but mostly (as at Cope’s Creek, for instance) shareholders
are asking where the extra divs. are. Nobody seems to
satisfactorily explain the rise, which, however, looks
sufficiently long-lived to put tin propositions in favor
with J. Bull. African shows are, however, regarded so
far as the only correct thing.
* * * *
Opal is sometimes a gem worth over £lOO per
oz., and sometimes a stone worth not quite as much as a
second-hand brick. The gem-merchant doesn’t call the
second-hand-brick variety opal ; but a large section of
the public does, and, seeing that it can’t pay £lOO an
ounce, pays 55., and then talks about “my opals.” This
has led to the missus violently casting her opals into the
rubbish-drawer when Maria has flaunted something
alleged to be the same kind of geni, and the drawing-
room has been steadily going “ off ” opal. White Cliffs
(N.S.W.),- which is now far and away the largest opal-
producer in the world, has been feeling the pinch ; it hasn’t
been able to get anything like the old price for good gems
and it has been trying to even up things by pouring out
“ candle-box stuff ” —“ candle-box stuff ” being first cousin
to “ potch,” which is rock under very faint suspicion of
being opal, and worth on the field about 10s. the box, or
2d. per lb. The opal-buyers have now come to the con-
clusion that, so long as they flood the market with opal
at 2d. per lb., there isn’t much chance of doing business
in opal at £2OOO or so per lb. ; wherefore they have bound
themselves not to touch the poor stuff at any price. The
first result for the field will be that many a man who
hasn’t been lucky enough to get on to good gem, but has
got enough “ candle-box stuff ” to buy a crust with, will
go hungry ; but later on, if the buyers give a fair deal,
the man who has the luck to strike a good pocket will be
able to have a more glorious razzle than hitherto.
• * • •
Queensland gold returns for June stop the rot
that had set in. Compared with June, ’O4, the month’s
54,8590 z. is 41210 z. to the good. About time that the
downward tendency was checked, as the first five months’
production had fallen away 23,8440 z. Total for the six
months was 290,4780 z. fine. For June, Charters Towers
shows another fall, being 1800 oz. behind; but Gympie
more than counterbalances this by an increase of 1808 oz.
Coen, which only produced 530 z. in June, ’O4, comes up
with 16020 z., while the other notable increases are Croy-
don, 880 oz. ; Mt. Morgan, 5790 z. ; Ravens wood, 3900 z. ;
Rockhampton 311 oz. ; Teningering, 2950 z. The Etheridge,
which wants its railway so badly, dropped back 5270 z. ;
and Cloncurry, where the copper comes from, reported a
modest 20z., probably the result of deep sinking in some-
body’s left-off artificial tooth.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) figures for half-year just ended
reveal increased tonnage treated for decreased yield of
gold. During Jan.-June half of 1904 its 96,916 tons pro-
duced 74,6490 z. gold, or an average of loldwt. This
year 100,579 tons have been put through for 68,1840 z. ;
average slightly over 13£dwt. Fall is due to com-
parative absence of specimen stone, which at the be-
ginning of 1904 was commencing to peter. The no-
torious 2 South Great Eastern “ amalgam reserve ”
had then not quite shot its bolt ; otherwise, on reliable
figuring, the fall of 2dwt. would not have been fairly
debited co the present year. The South Glanmire and
Monkland, with its brother, the Q.S. Great Eastern, is
unable to keep its end up without the aid of specimen
stone. Its performance for the half-year is 10,606 tons for
39570 z.; average sJdwt. This would have been con-
siderably improved with better milling, and profits would
come with increased tonnage. The No. I North Oriental
and Glanmire has averaged just upon loz. sdwt. per ton
from 4464 tons, but this is not likely to be maintained
for any length of time, being but the product of a rich
shoot.
* * * *
Scottish Gympie, the one co. on the Southern
Queensland field which seems to know how to preserve
its life, heads the list of Gympie gold producers for the
first half of the year ; 21,4570 z. from 44,950 tons, averaging
a shade over 9J dwt. Dividends were £37,125 or Is. l|d.
per share on a register of 660,000. Stone has apparently
improved a little of late, or else the specimen box has
been available. This is the co. which is reaping the
benefit of the sound sense and pluck of deceased Glasgow
millionaire James Dick. Dick was a whale for “ getting a
move on,” and ere he quitted the earth he saw the
Scottish Gympie fairly well equipped to deal with the
enormous body of poor grade material in the mine.
* * * *
This year, so far, No. 2 South Great Eastern,
Gympie (Q.), has treated 24,120 tons for 16,4540 z. gold ;
average, 13§dwt. This is a serious falling off, and clearly
shows that the specimen stone, which, according to
official report at the time the notorions amalgam fake was
exposed, was likely to come in again at any moment, is
staying away all the time. It will be a good thing in the
end for this co. if the specimen stone continues to stay
awav. If the management cannot make consistently
handsome profits from 13dwt. stuff, it is the sort of man-
agement that ought to make a trip for the sake of its
health.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) goldfield, in the hands of men
working things on modern scientific lines, would be a
totally different place from what it is. The mining and
milling practices on the field are deplorably deficient,
particularly the latter. Except Scottish Gympie, which
successfully handles 9dwt. stuff, the mines are usually in
trouble if they have not some rich specimen stone handy.
From January 1 to December 31 the practice is to pick
the eyes out of a mine, and reject material which, if treated
in a big bulk with richer shoots, would pay dividends.
The mine work is not assayed, and so the miners don’t
know what they are saving. The milling work is not
assayed, and so the mill men don’t know what they are
losing. Then outsiders come along and make a comfort-
able thing out of the tailings. No. 2 South Great
Eastern pays divs. out of 13dwt. stuff, but presently that
stuff may drop to 10dwt., and will want better milling
and a bigger tonnage to keep co. in good repute. No. 1
North Oriental and Glanmire is happy because in six
months it treats 4464 tons for 54490 z. Ere long this co.
will certainlv be in the same position as South Glanmire
and Monkland-seeking State assistance for exploration
work. It’s not only the Monkland, with its rich speci-
mens, that leads the Gympie co.’s from the sound path,
for the output of Smithfield and Phoenix Golden Pile —
2569 tons for 4511 oz.—was obtained from a rich spot in
the Smithfield reef. As soon as Gympie learns to look
askance at any crushing above 10dwt., the field will enter
upon an era of sounder prosperity.
• * * *
Chillagoe (N.Q.) debenture holders have the
same grip over the Mungana mine as they have over
Chillagoe, and the latter co. also holds 100,000 shares, or
one-fifth interest, in Mungana ; so things are mixed.
Seems as if the two concerns were one risk ; and it would
be just as well for them to unite. Mungana has about
4000 tons of ore at grass, and the Chillagoe Co. wants ore
badly.
* * * »
There has been a storm in a teapot at Bendigo,
where a virtuous and non-jobbing lot of legal-manager-
broker members of the Exchange got on to stilts as
high as Senator Jawbone Neild’s collar, because news
from Spring Gully No. 1 was not given at once to a
shareholder. If there were no other sinners in
the same way in the golden city, it would have
been all right ; for it has to be admitted that a
partner has as much right as his managing partner
to know how accounts stand, and how the stock on the
shelves looks. But will the Stock Exchange of Bendigo
take the broom and sweep out other stables whose legal
managers do not furnish reports until the directors know
their contents ? If it will, there will be a whirlwind where
they only wanted to raise a little dust.
* • * *
Prospectors and others are requested to forward
samples of Asbestos and full particulars to Herbert
Soanes, the only Asbestos Specialist in Australasia.
Reports made and sales negotiated. Address: Herbert
Soanes, Asbestos Specialist, Box 202, P. 0., Perth, W.A.*
* * * *
Divs. of W.A. mines for first half of the year
were £1,101,343, against £1,019,601 for same period of 1904,
a gain of £81,742. Chief contributors were Oroya-
Brown Hill £258,750, Fingall £187,500, Boulder £153,125,
Ivanhoe £140,000, Horseshoe £90,000, Perseverance
£52,500, Associated Northern £52,500, Golden Pole
£37,500, Hidden Secret £32,400, Kalgurli £30,000, Cosmo-
politan £20,000, Hainault £6500, Ida H. £54(10, Black
Range £5053, Cumberland £4OOO, Golden Ridge £1540,
Mikado £2OO. July divs. so far declared are : Fingall
£lOO 000, Associated Northern £35,000, Sons of Gwalia
£24,375, Kalgurli £15,000, Golden Pole £7500.
(Continued on page 32).


Sensational Selling of Silks «
DAVID JONES & CO.’S
1 SALE.
SPOTTED JAPANESE SILKS for Spring
and Summer wear —
USUAL PRICE. SALE PRICE.
2s 6d per yd. Is 6id per yd.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
George & Barrack Streets, Sydney.
HARRINGTON’S
SPECIAL
WINTER
BARGAIN
15/-
(Original List Price, 30/-)
For a Reliable Modern
Ask lor one of our useful
Mirrors to be enclosed
with your order—Free.
-THE BLOCK,—
HAND CAMERA,
With Book of Simple Instructions.
ffHE MONTAUK Jr. Camera is a well
built compact instrument of the box pattern.
Suitable for all kinds of Photography. Takes Photos
41x3|-in. It is fitted with Good Lens, Time and Instan-
taneous Shutter, Two View finders, Focussing Ground
Glass Screen. Diaphragms, Double Plate Holder, &c.
Carefully packed and posted to any address in N.S.W.,
price 16/6. This offer will only last until our present
stock is exhausted.
386 GEORGE STREET,
(
Near A
0.P.0j
SYDNEY,
And
93 Queen St., Brisbane.
SOCIETY
BOTH CONTENT.
HE: “I think you are the best girl in the
world.”
SHE: “I admire your taste.”
The footnote to a handbill re a meeting to
be held at Sydney School of Arts, on July 26, has
a faint flavor of interest about it:—
Mrs. Hamilton-Gray will reply to some slanderous
reports circulated by certain politicians to counteract
her work against the State Children’s Bill of 1903 ; and in
response to Mr. Reid’s late public reference, at a Woman’s
Meeting, to her “granduncle of past ages,” will make a
few remarks about “Mr. Reid’s grandmother” of still
more antiquated date.
But why this digging up of dead venerables?
Surely to be Mr. Reid s grandmother was misfor-
tune enough for the lady, without having the fact
rubbed in on her tombstone as if it were a hair-
restorer.
• * * *
The S. Aus. girl is coming on. A Port
Adelaide City Council meeting was, the other
evening, invaded by seven of her, all charming,
who said they represented the Semaphore hockey
club, and wanted their hockey ground put into
order quick at the public expense. One toothless
member of the council said such a proceeding was
burlesquing the business of the city, but he
was overborne by numbers, and the spokesgirl
talked to such purpose, and so dazzled the council
with her hat, that £l5 was voted for hockey
repairs.
A recent clumsiness of the Bent Ministry
brought about a highly reprehensible act of re-
bellion on the part of a Victorian public servant.
Recently Bent and Co. appointed a lawyer-man,
Phillips, to the long-vacant office of taxing-master,
at £7OO a year. For many years P. A. MacAnulty,
a public servant receiving £485 a year, has acted
under an Order-in-Council as taxing-officer and
assistant chief clerk ; and he reckoned that, until
this order was revoked, he wasn’t going to be
superseded by any outsider. On Saturday morn-
ing, July Ist, Mr. Phillips reached the taxing-
officer’s office punctually at 10, and placed himself
on fixed deposit in the big armchair ; but he hadn’t
taken root before Mr. MacAnulty entered, and
observed, chillingly, “You are in my chair.”
Mr. P. pleasantly replied that he was taxing-
master now, and would be much obliged
if Mr. M. would hand over the papers. Mr. M.
merely gazed at a bald spot on Mr. P.’s
head and signified his intention of seating
b/mself in the armchair. Thereupon Mr. P.
rose to avoid being sat upon, and betook
himself to temporary offices across the passage.
Thus ended round 1. Round 2 began by the Law
Department suspending Mr. M., and desiring him
to give an explanation of his conduct, but Mr. M.
declined to be suspended, and continued his work
as taxing-officer, in defiance of his departmental
superiors and in complete ignorance of the exist-
ence of Mr. P. Round 3 began with a Council
Order, revoking the one of July, 1897, which
appointed Mr. M. taxing-officer ; so that strenuous
public servant is at present without any present
position or any salary. What Bent and Attorney-
General Davies propose to do with him has not
transpired, but if he humbles himself sufficiently
Bent will probably bellow at him and forgive him.
But the MacAnultys are not given to humbling
themselves, so the skirmish may come to open
war. Meanwhile nobody seems to have noticed
that the public, which pays the bill, has now to
find £7OO a year for one of Bent’s nominees to do
work which was previously performed quite satis-
factorily by a public servant at £485 a year.
4 * * *
The new fashion in Melbourne suburban
front fences just now is unpainted oiled jarrah,
which, to be very toney. has to be kept polished
by the housemaid. Hence more domestic groans,
tears, and sudden departures of Mary Ann.
< m *
They are a happy family in some bucolic
parts of S. Australia, and don’t violently hustle
one another for a crust. At Mt. Gambier,
which has a little patch of the richest
land in the State, they run a “ trades
defence council,” of
which practically
everybody who ever
sells anything is a
member. They all
contribute their ex-
periences to a “black
list,” and anybody
who is on the list has
Buckley’s chance of
getting “tick.” At
the last annual meet-
ing of the “council,”
the people who sell
watches and clocks
as a regular thing
complained that
other shopkeepers
occasionally got in a
line of alleged time-
keepers and made a
splash with them, and
they wanted to know
if that was a fair and
neighborly thin r.
The council didn’c
know for certain that
it could order the
graspingshopkeepers
to knockoff their evil
habits all at once, but it let them know that it
would have its own opinion about their hereafter
if they undercut the regular man.
■* * * *
The “Cathedral Corner” of Swanston-
street, Melbourne, is to be improved by putting
back the boundary railings of the Anglican Cathe-
dral reserve, to permit of a wider sweep of pave-
ment. The enclosed land in front of the sacred
edifice is quite useless—it merely keeps the man
in the street from close proximity to the house of
God —and, being so useless, it might have been
expected to appear particularly holy to the Dean
and Chapter. But they have relinquished a slice
of their real estate without even attempting to
drive a hard bargain with the council. The late
Dean Macartney would probably have wanted a
hard bargain. He believed in turning valuable
property to good account. At the time of the
land boom, the old Dean was in favor of selling
the Cathedral ground, with the uncompleted build-
ing thereon, to the highest syndicate bidder.
* * * *
It is estimated that, in Victoria, comparing
arrests with crimes reported, the chances are 2 to 1
in favor of the petty larcenist, 3 to 1 in favor of
the housebreaker, 4J to 1 the burglar, 5 to 1 the
shopbreaker, 7 to 1 the cattle-thief, and 9 to 1 in
favor of the dog-stealer. No figures are given as
to the defaulting solicitor, but, judging from some
recent cases, the chances in his favor are about
100 to 1.
“Lazanias” : Before finding out what a
jolly place the world is, I used to love Burton’s
“Anatomy of Melancholy.” He relates how De-
mocritus of Abdera used to go down to the wharves
every morning for knowledge—my way, whether
in Newcastle (N.S.W.), New York Water
Front, San Francisco, London, Liverpool, or
Hamburg. At an Australian wharf I saw a
blackboard on ratlins chalked “For Guam,
Tuesday.” Just my ideal of a ship for a
cruise, the Willard G. Patton, American,
wooden, built of thin boards like a dancing
floor, real ropes and no wire, no stinky steam,
no cross-yards for the men to fall off, her
masts only for spankers and named the fore,
main, driver and pusher. Captain Goatley
was leaning over the rail, looking all ways for
Sunday, like Bunsby, of the Cautious
Clara. “ Where’s Guam?” I asked.
“ Anywhar and nowhar,” said he.
“ But I don’t mind telling you it
means London by circumbendi-
bus.” “Just my dart,” said I,
and booked at the agents. Some
lady friends of theirs came as
passengers. My object was just
a quiet dig into the classics,
wherefore I packed up Bible,
Shakspeare, “Iliad,” “Divina
Commedia,” “Faust,” Moliere,
and “Don Quixote.” Quiet!
The day before sailing they took
aboard eighty of Teddy Weeks’s
horses for Calcutta, under “ Calf-
skin Nat,” who dressed every day
for dinner, in the cuddy, with
his famous piebald hide waistcoat.
We slept by day more than the
wild cat, for at night there were
tramples, when the waves lifted
up their hands on high. I tried
to become a bore, but couldn’t.
Every night I had to spout, and
matinees too. My classical lec-
tures would stock Sydney Uni-
versity. Sorrowful days when
Nat had to send an old crock, not
to walk the plank, but to slide
with a flop and splash into the green,
hungry sea. He would sigh, “Thirty
quid gone ! Now then, pard, you must
cheer me up with some Old Shakey to-
night.” But nothing had such a run as my
performance of “ Mysteries of Paris,” from an old
copy of the full romance, which somebody fished
up. I got sicker of it than biscuit and junk. Yet
they would insist that my acting of Rodolphe,
La Goualeuse, the villainous Schoolmaster, the
Old Hag. and that terrific little devil Hoppy was
great, with yells of “Don’t skip ! ”
* * * *
A recent official return sheds a candle-
glimmer on the ways of Sydney magistrates in
fitting the punishment to the crime. One Fava,
an Italian fruit-seller, was convicted 14 times for
Sunday selling between March, 1904, and June,
1905. He went the round of all the stipendiary
magistrates, beginning with King at 12s. 6d. or
seven days, and ending with Wilshire at 225. 6d
or seven days. Isaacs gave him 12s. 6d. or three
days, and Payten 225. 6d. or 17 days. For the
same offence on four different Sundays Smithers
apportioned Is. or one hour, while Donaldson had
one go at the crime and made it 625. 6d. or a
month. Can’t these magistrates meet in conven-
tion and decide something ? If they even put all
the sentences in a hat, and drew one, and stuck to
it, some good would result, unless one of the
stipendiaries stole the hat.
A FAIR EXCHANGE .
THE INFANT (not quite satisfied, despite cordial
assurances of supernatural protection):
“Mama, couldn't you blow out the angels and
leave the candle burning?”
The “Welsh revival”—which it was dis-
mally predicted was going to spread to Australia—
is now a thing of the past. Evan Roberts, the
revivalist, got a habit of looking with a glassy
expression at his congregation for half-an-hour in
dead silence, and at other times he whirled his
arms like an octopus that has had red pepper put
on it and called his congregation the devil.
Finally he degenerated into an object of ridicule
and commiseration, and his great “revival” dis-
persed in all directions.
RETORT COURTEOUS.
SMITH : “Don't you believe me?”
SMYTHE : “ Yahs, deah boy, I believe you. but
if I told you that yarn I would not ask you
to — aw —believe me — aw!”
A new league, non-polifcical in nature, has
been formed in a Melbourne tea-room. It is called
the Girls’ Butter League. At this bunnery, which
is much frequented by the johnnie type of cus-
tomer, the girl attendants are not allowed butter
at their own meals. So the waitresses take it in
turn to buy half a pound on behalf of their collec-
tive Little Mary, hence the League. N.B. —Wages
at this tea-reservoir are said to vary from 6s. to
10s. a week.
* * • »
There would appear to be an element of
danger attending the teaching of history in the
public schools of a
State which permits
the Dill Macky fool-
ishness to stalk
abroad on its arro-
gant calves. In a
Sydney suburban
school, not long
since, a young teacher
explained to the kids
that the Britons,
close on 2000 years
ago, were a naked
and barbarous lot of
people, who knew
nothing of civilised
life until lifted up
and instructed by
the Romans. That
same day a mother
swooped down from
somewhere, shriek-
ing for the gore of
“that Catholic
teacher.” “ What,”
she screamed, “what
do you mean, you
Catholic ’ussy, by
stuffin’ my girl with such rubbish as that the Roman
Catholics civilised the Prod’s’n’s of England?”
The infuriated parent then threatened to report
“the ’ussy ” to the Department and have her re-
moved from the service.
* * * vr
The tale of a philosopher :
At the Central Police Court, Brisbane, the other day,
just before the court opened, a 14-year-old slouched up
to the court orderly.
“ Say, John, is this ther plyce where yer gits fined fur
biffin’ Chows?”
“ What do you say, you young limb?"
“ Well, I jobbed a Chow on ther jore t’other night, an
a John guv me a bit er blue pyper, an’ tole me ter
be yere this mornin’; an’ yere I am.”
He was assured he’d come to the right place to get a
bad time for biffin’ Chows, and he sank on to the drunk-
and-disorderlies’ bench quite cheerfully, remarking :
“ Rybuck.”
CUT BONO?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the old, old winds are sighing
In the Evening of Existence ;
When the last red sun is sinking
Down the long, black, final hill ;
Will it matter how you’ve struggled,
How you lived, or what you fancied ?
Will the end be any different
When you’re lying stiff and still ?
When the parson people tell us
Of the Infinite Hereafter,
And of all the things that regulate
The Getting of the Crown ;
Will it make it any better
If we listen to their preachings ?
Will the Loneliness be lessened
When the Sun is going down ?
Or if Omar be the Prophet
And you hearken to his teachings,
And go drifting, drifting, drifting
Down his restful, ruby way ;
Will that change it any, think you, ,
When the night is drawing round you?
Will it give you any comfort
At the ending of the day ?
Let it go. It doesn’t matter.
It’ll be the same to-morrow
When they’ve buried us or burned us
Or they’ve sunk us in the sea.
All things will be as we knew them ;
All the birds will be as merry,
And the sun will shine for someone
As it did for you and me.
MAORILAND.
A. DE R.B.


HIGH- CL ASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
LECTRICAL ENGINEERING
thoroughly taught by post. All branches.
Methods ensure rapid
C
Our Individual
progress.
■■■ “HOME STUDY” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney. [3
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommend ad.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
“ Scatter your minions ! ” said disease one day
To the demon Cold and his friend Decay ;
“ Winter is here to give you a hand,
Out! friend, out! and ravage the land.”
« i can’t,” said the Demon, “ I’m quite out of work,
A mortal named Woods’ pulls me up with a jerk ;
His Great Peppermint Cure is death to my host.
Good-bye ! ” said the Demon, and gave up the ghost
ARNOLD’S BALSAM.— A pure vegetable
extract. The peculiar process followed in the
manufacture of this important cough mixture
ensures the extraction of all the Balsamic and
active medicinal principles of the plants, roots,
and herbs employed. Its remarkable curative
properties have induced many eminent medical
men to order it with approbation. It may be
safely taken in any stage of chest affections, and,
having a pleasant taste, is readily administered to
children. A dose at bed-time will ensure repose.
For families in the country, distant from a phy-
sician, it is invaluable, as, by its early use, many a
severe chest attack may be warded off. Children
are peculiarly susceptible to its gentle influence.
Get Arnold’s Balsam. All the best chemists and
stores throughout the States sell Arnold’s Balsam.
It has the largest sale of any cough mixture.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date In the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
“ Old Chum” tells some very old stories :
A choice bit of old Sydney went under the hammer
last week, and will disappear in a few days—the last of
the Madquarie-era houses in Charlotte Place, now known
as Grosvenor-street. Originally Charlotte Place only ran
from George-street to Harrington-street, the remainder,
to Kent-street, being known as Church Hill. The old
store about to go down has had many vicissitudes. On
the side walls may still be read the legend, “Abraham
Polack’s Auction and Commission Rooms.” Polack
arrived in Sydney over 80 years ago. In the late 20’s and
early 30’s he kept the London Tavern in George-street,
opposite the old police court. From public-house keeping
Polack drifted into auctioneering, having his establish-
ment in Lower George-street.
In 1839 he came into prominence in connection with
the business of John Thomas Wilson, a big ironmonger in
George-street. Wilson purchased the brig Nereus, 124
tons, then lying in Sydney harbor, from Robert Campbell
jun. 'and Co. Wilson then went amongst his commercial
friends and purchased goods of every description, valued
in the aggregate at £30,000, which he stuffed on board.
These goods were paid for on the terms then usual (three,
four and six months bills). When the vessel was ready
for sea Wilson rode down to the wharf, gave his horse to
a porter to hold, and, telling him that he was going down
the harbor to see his vessel sail, boarded his own steamer,
the Sophia Jane, which was to tow the brig to the Heads.
The little steamer returned to Darling Harbor without
Wilson, he having sailed in the brig with the valuable
cargo. That was Oct., 19, 1839, and from that day to
this the vanished ironmonger has not been heard of,
excepting once in lat. 29T6, long. 160 w., when the U.S.
ship Relief spoke his brig.
Clamorous creditors assembled at Wilson’s store, but
were blandly told by Abraham Polack that the property
there belonged to him under bonds duly executed by
Wilson. Wilson’s debts amounted to £60,000. Polack’s
bond was found to have a hole in it, and the Hebrew had
to pay for the premises after all. The defrauded mer-
chants sent the Rover’s Bride after Wilson, but the
expense was thrown away. Wilson hailed from America,
where he was known by the name of Abbott ; but it was
proved beyond doubt that he had been in business in the
U. States under the name of John Thomas Soares, and
that he left the States much in the same fashion that he
left N.S.W.
The house on the corner of the condemned block is of
more modern date. On that site the main guard-house
stood, and when the present building was erected and
named Nottingham House, it was kept by John Hordern
as a drapery store ; and in that store William Bede
Dailey, as a boy, had his first billet. His father, John
Dailey, had. in earlier days, a slop shop thereabouts.
THOSE BARMAIDS!
FIRST DANCING MAN : “ Hallo! What's the
matter with Smith?”
SECOND DITTO : “ Oh, he just called his girl
‘Rose dear."
F.D.M.: “ Well? ”
S.D.M.: “ Well, that's not her name !”
What is alleged to be the most valuable
Crown grant ever issued in Australia was lately
handed by the Vic. Lands Department to the
Railway Commissioners. It transfers to these
latter the 487 acres 2 roods 24J perches covering
Spencer-street station and yards—land worth pro-
bably a million and a-half. But even that huge
grant is as nothing to the present value of the
miles of land given as Crown grants in years
agone. Take Brighton, for instance. Back in the
fifties a block, which practically includes the whole
of what is now Brighton, was given to a Colonel
Dendy for some alleged Imperial services. Dendy
brought out immigrants and planted them on his
grant, they buying themselves and their property
out by their services. Some of the land he sold
at from £lO to £4O an acre. On the municipal
valuation that block is now worth £2,000,000.
Dendy-street, Brighton, exists as a reminder of
that lucky grantee.
“ The Victorian headquarters of the Royal Australian
Artillery, the only permanent regiment in the Common-
wealth forces, is at Queenscliff, and the military authori-
ties find that they have a large number of men offering
for enlistment in .the summer months, when Queenscliff is
full of female visitors. When the winter arrives, and
Queenscliff is comparatively deserted, these young men
apply for their discharge.” —Daily paper.
A firm of boot-dealers at Ballarat recently
sustained a severe shock. The firm is so very
wideawake that it is supposed to suffer from
insomnia; at least it proudly proclaims on its
window, in neat copper letters: “We Never
Sleep.” Lately a thief stole the copper letters
while the boot firm was in bed.
* * *
A Melbourne constable
acquired a tired feeling and
some physical exercise lately
through discovering a small
girl seated on a Carlton door-
step in the middle of the
night. The infant’s tale was
that she lived at Clifton Hill
and her mother, being about
to “ move,” had sent her to
“auntie’s” to be out of the
way. Auntie, however, de-
clined to receive her, and
when she got home again her
mother had shifted, and she
couldn’t find the new house,
so she was lost, lorn, lone.
- She didn’t look neglected or
damaged in any wav, so the
constable accepted the yarn
as genuine, and took her to
the alleged new address in
Northcote; but there was a
vacant block where-the house
ought to be. Then the in-
fant recollected that her
mother had changed her mind
about Northcote, and had
gone to North Fitzroy. It
wasn’t a great way off sunrise
when the pair reached ad-
dress No. 2—only to find it
occupied by strangers, sym-
pathetic bu t somewhat sleepy.
The policeman declined any
more information and es-
corted the damsel to the
watch-house, where her moth-
er presently arrived in tears
and claimed the infant.
There was nothing wrong
with her she had just
“wagged” it from school,
and she wanted a little ex-
citement, a brief, mild noto-
riety. But she will improve
in the next five years, and by
the time she is 16 she will
probably be able to spin a well-built, symmetrical
narrative that will make quite a sensation in the
witness-box.
it * * *
“ Pro-Russia ” writes from Japan
There is a second mortgage on the Jap Customs, a first
mortgage on the tobacco monopoly, and now the valuable
naphtha fields in North Japan are offered to the Standard
Oil Company for a miserable million yen sterling. On
May 8 a domestic loan of 495 million yen was just covered,
with the banks’ aid—they helped to save the country’s
face, and 500 million yen were offered. Ten months ago
I pointed out to Bulletin readers that Russia would
never pay an indemnity, and that Japan would sink under
its interest bill. Bondholders must suffer for this hurry-
ing to change from feudalism to fanatical efficiency. All
the Chinese ports are swarming with the little spies. The
unholy subsidisement of many of the Asiatic papers printed
in English is notorious ; not a word of protest on behalf
of the U.S. consul, hunted out of Korea because he was a
fair-minded man, and Washington yielded to the yellow
clamor for his removal. I was in Canton when the flower-
boat girls (allee same geisha maidens) struck, and left the
town, because of too much squeeze on the part of the
Viceroy. May I never read another Bulletin if I did not
see the Japanese beauties take the place of the strikers
within the month. They hold the monopoly of this busi-
ness, and correctly so. There are 2642 registered Japanese
girls located in Malay-street, Singapore. The overweening
national conceit has brought into the fray no small foe.
The succession of victories are placed to the credit of the
old gods ; the new God is openly neglected. Result, the
missionary man and woman are beginning to holler.
Those that have lived in the East know what that means.
I would not care to run athwart the mission pack.
About a lift
Melbourne’s Coroner Cole didn’t strain the law in the
direction of severity when he returned a verdict of acci-
dental death in the case of a luckless visitor at the Federal
Coffee Palace, who, as one witness put it, “ walked along
the unlighted passage on the third floor in expectation of
feeling the lift-door. He did not feel it, and took another
step and went down.” It was proved that after midnight
there were no lights in any of the passages leading
to the lift, and that the solitary light in the lift
itself was out at the time. The night clerk had
taken up a passenger and had gone to show him
his room leaving the lift door open. The lift
“crept” upwards—most lifts whose valves are not per-
fectly tight creep slightly ; there was an open death-trap
in the pitchy darkness, and a tragedy. Here was a sup-
posedly up-to-date, drinkless hotel, of 600 rooms, whose
corridors were so dark that a witness who heard the
victim’s cry said he “ could not see if the lift door was
open, and' approached cautiously, feeling with his um-
brella. A few months since a lady visitor went
to her death down that same trap though
she is supposed to have opened the door herself.
A company which runs an hotel in such a thrifty manner
that it puts out all its upstairs lights at midnight,
and whose night clerk or porter takes strangers
to their rooms, leaving the lift-door open (he couldn’t
shut it because he couldn’t open it again from the out-
side), and which also keeps that lift in such a state of
inefficiency that it habitually “ creeps ” of its own accord,
is careless to a degree. And a “ carelessness ” that ends
in funerals is too dangerous to have on any premises.
Possibly if coroner Cole had called it manslaughter by a
limited liability co., there wouldn’t be quite so much of
the commodity lying around in future.
* * * *
S.A. school teachers have been raising the
question of unfit residences, at their annual con-
ference. S.A. is proud of having a larger propor-
tion of stone houses than any other State in the
Commonwealth, but the trainers of the young
have to take anything provided. One teacher
described his three-roomed shanty, without a
verandah, a cupboard, or a shelf. He lived on
the Sunday school plan,” his wife and two
daughters in one bedroom, himself and son m the
other. Mostly, however, the pedagogues took their
troubles humorously. Register report: “Mr. B.
said he had two rooms of weatherboard, two steps
broad and three steps wide. (Loud laughter.)
Two more rooms were made of pine trunks and
mud. (Great laughter.) The floor was made by
the Lord himself. (Shrieks of laughter).”
* * * *
“Petramos” writes: —
A voung law clerk said this to me : “ ’Sno use talking
to me about law. I’m sick of it. Got a job with a lawyer
whose specialty is divorce cases. Never know what hours
I’m working. We were working up a case for a fellow
who did a lot of evidence-collecting on his own account.
Once he came to my home at two in the morning, and
made me get up. Said he had discovered his wife sitting
on a fellow’s knee playing some new-fangled game of cards
in a house about a mile away. Saw her through a win-
dow It was as much as my job was worth to refuse to go
and witness the sight; so I went. It was raining like
Tophet. We tramped on and on, got wet through and
muddy, and spoilt our clothes, but at length reached the
housef We crept up to the window very cautiously and
looked in, and discovered that she had got off his knee.
Everything proceeded respectably. After waiting for an
hour in the rain, saw him take his hat and coat and then
shake hands with her. Our client partially choked at
the sight. I would have been happy to make the choke
complete. Oh, it’s a rotten business .
A Collingwood (Vic.) Congregafcinn.il
church is in a tottering state. It is a substantial
bluestone edifice, originally built at a cost of
£14,000. Two years back its jubilee was cele-
brated, with much flourish of trumpets, but the
rally was a temporary one. The average Sunday
congregation numbers 20; the place is poorly
lighted, and in such a state are the financial affairs
of the church that the minister resigned in despair.
His “salary” for the last month of service
amounted to 10s. Now the pulpit is filled by any
tramp preacher or swag apostle who chances to
come along with a sermon in his billy and is willing
to take pot-luck with the offertory.
* * * *
Even Victorian shire councils begin to
kick at the disgraceful “ thrift ” of the Education
Department. Ballarat Shire .Council lately sent
its health officer to inspect the Addington State
School, and this is his report:—
Water supply is obtained from ... an underground
well, . . . receptacle for all the drainage from the school
yard. . . . Water . . . unfit for human consumption.
Schoolmaster’s residence ... a hovel. . . . dilapidated,
. . . Damp can be seen in the chimney stacks three feet
above the ground. Effluvia arising from the ground
under the house, and, filling the rooms, is offensive and
noxious. No attempt whatever at drainage. Place quite
unfit for human occupation. If unoccupied, would be a
source of danger to the school children. . . . Should be
demolished. I have been attending schoolmaster’s family
for gastro-enteritis, which I attribute to the insanitary
state of his dwelling.
By the way, it would be interesting to know if
there is in Australia a single case on record where
the local inhabitants, in a case like this, have
passed round the hat and built a nice clean school
and schoolmaster’s residence all on their own,
instead of letting their children die while they
bellowed at the slow Department ? Or is there a
case where the local rich man has fixed things up
in a quiet, matter-of-course way? It might be
about as cheap an advertisement as the local rich
man could get when he wants to stand for Parlia-
ment, and save him a lot of printing and can-
vassing.
THE TERM-ANENT HEARTILLERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The spooning time at Queenscliff is the time to fly to
arms—
Sing hey ! the gallant soldier and the girl—
When defenders of their country find the Service full of
charms—
Sing hey ! the giddy soldier and the girl—
For the military mummer
Down at Queenscliff, in the summer,
There’s a lot of joy in living whilst the uniform is new.
He’s an object of devotion
As he swaggers by the ocean—
Sing hey ! the summer soldier and the girl.
But winter time at Queenscliff is the time to get away—
Sing ho ! the weary soldier and his job—
There’s a dearth of recreation, and there’s precious little
pay—
Sing ho ! the private soldier and his job.
When the blue-eyed little “stunner ”
Ceases writing to her gunner,
And the seagulls shriek derision at his ornamental garb,
Then he finds a new attraction
In another field of action—
Sing ho ! the winter soldier off the job.
VIC.
E.F.
CAT'S
CRADLE
7 m/ \ ( If 0 !? 5
| / f. You kivsw tkat fools
11 / g*TO«wkev| plav| atvv’ith Iwsne
well. If KappeKed N 2»n’s
fingers got mingled wilk mine
theijr£&\kj goT
•—j'-r T , caugbVm the brcu cl
llltle vfYute pigepi\s Ihev} I
fkitlerecl and s*faijecl.
shone on I
& happier man,
ni6hl'tHat I plaui’d at Cats I
Crzxdle with Nm>!
2>ke twisted IKose metres deftly a*nd
Tk»r ijon won't be surprised at the
For 1 married Ihe stkemer- so much vjou /
I
And we don't plaxj Cats Cradle lro taoundj
to confess, I
(for 1 sit up at mchts - which was not f
ir\ mvj plan f *
And the kid s cradle
for Nan!
W.H.O.


Charles Heidsieck
EXTRA PRY
* m
☆ v
u
f INEST EXTRA Q?
DR,. WORRALL has moved his Consulting
Rooms to 183 Macquarie Street, corner
of Hunter Street, Sydney.
VALAZE—A marvellous skin food ! Thousands
of ladies have testified in letters to us to the
power of Valaze as a skin beautifier as a sure
eradicator of blackheads and blemishes and as a
remover of all facial blemishes—of the highest
degree. It’s hard to look beautiful without a
beautiful complexion—Valaze will give you
this quickly and at small cost. 3s. 6d. and 6s.
jars at all chemists, or from Mdlle. Helena
Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Posted
6d. extra.*
THE QUEEN’S FACE FOOD.
Old ladies made young. Young ladies made
beautiful. No more wrinkles, pimples, or black-
heads. but a beautiful, clear, peachlike complexion,
for those who use the Queen’s Pace loop.
Manufactured by Dr. Noel, the Queen’s own
beautifier. Thousands have derived the greatest
benefit from it, and speak highly of it. Obtainable
at Mr. Broth wood’s and all leading chemist’s, and at
Madame Olga’s beautifying Boudoirs, Gov. Savings
Bank Chambers, Moore St., Sydney, 3s. 6d., 6s.
“CRAVtriETTES"
gt/ lsK
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
D. The New (^orsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . «
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 11, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
Australian, women in London must have been
busy of late practising spine-bending and the
aesthetic carriage of a chiffon velvet court
train. Among those who bowed before Ring
Edward’s gartered knee and Queen Alexandras
phenomenal face were Mrs. T. A. Coghlan, and
the Misses Sara and Julie Skerrett, Miss Madeline
Clune and Miss Carrie Fairfax. Two Macartney
girls—Queenslanders —were also of the elect. Ihe
second daughter of late John Toohey, of Wahroonga,
is practising loyalty and cultivating a deep affec-
tion for her sovereign in readiness for the next
Drawing-room.
Sign of a falling social barometer is the prepara-
tion being made for amateur theatricals, The
Pointers and Rose Bayleaves are getting ready to
put on an antic disposition. Captain Wilson
will most probably be yarded for a part; also
Major Dangar, recently returned to the ancestral
castle in Macleay-street. Latter is as fat as ever,
or, to quote a Sydney girl admirer ‘ all his
angles are so adorably velvet-cushioned. Colonel
Stanley, too, can “mum” at a pinch. He is
making himself very useful these days. In the
intervals of making bullets and bellowing lyes
right' ” “ Eyes left! ” “As you was! ” “As you is,
and “As you will be,” also “As you might have
been if you weren’t,” he helps along charity shows
such as the garden party at Victoria barracks last
Thursday. Party was in aid of that honorable
charity, the Children’s Hospital. Mrs. Com-
mandant Gordon showed up in blue clothes.
She always wears blue, I’m told, to match her
eyes, and the idea seems a good one. I heard
once of a lady who got a husband to match her
dog, but that is a frivolous digression.
Ladies and gentlemen who have their toes un-
plagued with corns, like those of the guests at
Capulet’s ball in “ Romeo and Juliet,” are hereby
admonished not to forget the Mayoress, ball on
-Vug. Ist, at the Town Hall. It will be in aid of
the Children’s Hospital, and her generous W or-
shipfulness is paying all expenses and charging
only ss. for the tickets. You may go in fancy
dress if you so please.
Talking of antic dress : I heard lately of a man
who went to a f.d. ball as the Day of Judgment.
He wore a white robe, on one side of which, from
hem to collar, was shown a flock of sheep-
ascending. Down the other side trailed a herd of
goats. His golden hat had a kind of railing
around it, with a gate in the railing and a figure
on guard. Mention of outfit was quite ignored m
the press. When I resume making my wonderful
collection of dried snobs, I will try to include
some of the people who professed to be so deeply
shocked at the “ Day of Judgment ” outfit.
“ Body-snatchers ” is the gallery’s name for the
group of persons who form themselves into a
committee of reception and pounce upon the vice-
regalities—acting or otherwise—as the latter enter
the Town Hall, and freeze there during a charity
frisk. Certain “body-snatchers” will also be in-
cluded in my collection of dried snobs.
A new Admiral is due to smile on our waters—
Rear-Admiral Sir Wilmot Fawkes. He is in his
60th year, and his wife’s name is. Juliana. He
commanded the Royal yacht Osborne and divers
warships, and his recreations are field sports.
Very natural. A sailor would scarcely spend his
leisure on an outrigger.
How taste changes! lam moved to this per-
fectly original conclusion after seeing Little
Lord Fauntleroy,” as perpetrated by ihe
Players ”at the Palace last Thursday. There
was a time when we waxed enthusiastic over that
fearful little prig. But then we were green as
early lettuce. First Lord F. was a short, compact
little girl that R. S. Smythebrought to Melbourne.
She walked and ran and attitudinised like a boy,
spoke with the spontaneous naturalness of a boy,
and was altogether a born little professional who
didn’t look more than—l forget the book age of
the titled infant, but his imitator didn t look more
than 8. “ The Players’ ” Small Lord looked 12,
and was very leggy, and when the long-legged
child with the tight corkscrew curls and the move-
ments suggestive of her legs being tied at the
knees fell asleep in “Dearest’s arms, one kept
thinking “how will she carry that five feet-two of
able-bodied infant to bed?” Also: “How can
Dearest be its mother unless she were married and
christened simultaneously ?■” “ Players Dearest
looked eighteen or so, spite of trying to age herself
with black clothes and a sorrowful chastened
expression. She was a pretty young mummer.
So was her stage child who, by the way, must have
a phenomenal memory to be able to store up
such quantities of Mrs. Burnetts f?as. Ihe
other lady, who did the bold and hussy part,
was very successful, and the one character that
stood out and above the others as a capital
study of an irascible old gentleman was that of
Mr Neville Mayman as the Earl of Donncourt.
Don’t think I ever saw a better-acted aristocratic
old blizzard. The Australian Orchestra-numbers
of persons don’t know there is such a combination
—made musical the intervals of the July night.,
One of the convulsive items of “the Players ” in
the fixing up of “ Little Lord Fauntleroy was the
collection of family portraits on the ancestral
walls of the Earl of Donncourt s library (or what-
ever room it is in which he nurses his gout). Mr. j
Goring Thomas’s portrait, and tenor Willie
Beattie’s, and that of a London shoeblack painted
by a Sydney lady were amongst the ancestors.
Mr. Hoelskin, once the leading caterer in Mel-
bourne, died at Blackheath, recently. He was 80-
odd years of age, and had married an aunt of Mr.
Mark Foy. Deceased was for 20 years or so chef
of the Imperial kitchens in Vienna. He was a
wealthy man, childless, and the Foys, it is said,
will inherit.
To the great surprise of all Perth (W.A.), that
sandy, insanitary city’s best-known old bachelor,
“ Dr.” Hackett, of the West Australian, Legis-
lative Council, and most other things that have
any frill about them, is soon to go into house-
keeping. The local Morning Herald made the
announcement in an obviously inspired par. The
lion, doctor is over 50; the bride-to-be, Miss
Brockman, a pretty girl of about 20. The Brock-
mans and Hamersleys are reckoned the two “ best
families ” in Groperland, having joined the Swan
River settlement with the first batch of colonists.
Every professional violinist in Sydney was, as
far as I could count, at Hugo Heermann’s opening
concert. Hugo of the bow builds his fame
tirely on his merits, for his appearance hasn’t a
shred of advertising value. No hair —or, at least,
not enough to make a show on street posters no
oyster eyes, no sombre, doomsday glances. His
tubular clothes are baggy, and he looks prosaic
enough for the driest prose in life—which is
figures—but not commonplace. He drew a good
audience for a violinist. Persons who really ap-
preciate and know good violining are exotics. And
exotics aren’t as frequent as the unbonny briar
bush.
It 'seems to me that these Russian mutineers
who seized the Kniaz Potemkine, and finally
abandoned it on the Roumanian coast, were much
in want of a proper leader. I have a half-formed
idea that I would like to run such an enterprise
myself. I wouldn’t have murdered the officers
who objected to mutiny, but I would have told
them frankly that their beautiful uniforms would
be torn if they stayed on board, and their hair
would be cut by the ship’s cook. Naturally that
would make them leave at once. Then I would
have given an afternoon tea, and threatened to
bombard the city if strawberries and cream were
not sent aboard. After that I would have tied
pink bows round the mainmast, and started con-
certs to improve the minds of the mutineers, and
I would have instituted mixed bathing and
“ swapped ” the anchor for fruit salad. The rest
of the programme isn’t too clear, but in the end I
think I would have sold the ironclad and bought a
multitude of clothes with the money while the
crew were busy with private theatricals.
Constance Clyde’s book, “A Pagan’s Love,” it
may be remarked, compares favorably with another
woman-written book just out. “A Dark Lantern,’
by Elizabeth Robins, treats mostly of squalid high
life; Miss Clyde’s of not very elevated Maori-
land and Sydney. But you don’t hear Constance’s
story shriek as it comes along, and she never
chloroforms it, and drops it into the bush whilst
she goes off on fresh trails, as Miss Robins does.
And persons who relish daring, irreverent com-
ment will find much that will tickle their
mental palates. Some quaint remarks are
these: “I wonder if the Deity is flattered
at seeing His name so often in print?” And:
“ The cushions and handkerchief sachets em-
broidered with ethical remarks.” Miss Robins’
book—it is one of those “wanted” at the
Book Club—is supposed to show an ideal real
man. The kind of man who, in the opinion of
some women writers, is most capable of inspiring
and acquiring the adoration of woman must be a
Brute. This real and ideal man is a particularly
brutal Brute. And he has a face like “a dark
lantern.” Well, any woman I know would leave
her husband if he showed signs of becoming
Miss Robins’ ideal real man, and looking like a
dark lantern, or even a slush lamp. And if he
showed symptoms of such realism before marriage,
he would soon have a ring in his pocket that was
looking for a steady job.
All the places where the water .comes down
suddenly on the Blue Mountains were worth
seeing during the past month of this brilliant cold
weather. The various falls were frozen, and Nature
showed some beautiful fashions in the way of
icicle-making. The thermometer has been down
to 28, but we here in Sydney have been permitted
to live with it at 36. Talking of the Blue Heights,
Erirna donna Bassian and her husband are at
ledlow. The former’s throat is giving a good
account of itself, and she will resume song next
month.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ A wild, blustering wind cavorted with Fletn-
ington’s chiffons on Saturday. The two fair Exes,
courted it by trailing theirs out to the sun-patches
of the lawn. The Talbot dame was in damson
cloth, and top-rigging to match. The G.-G-. mate
appeared in grape-purple velvet and Arctic wrap-
pings about the quarter-deck. The air was soon
full of fluff, feather, tags and ends of millinery,
top-layers of powder, and scattered fragments of
dead birds. Mrs. Yes-No Reid openly took the
lee-side shelter of her spipuse, and from her anchor-
age smiled at the official clan. A marine-blue
feather of inordinate length struggled and kicked
desperately in her large-leafed brown hat. O ver a
brown rig, a cream race cloak was strapped taut.
Miss A. Fairbairn likewise tarpaulined herself in
with a cream race cloak. Bits of blue peeped
from the inner garb. Leagues of fair plait _ imi-
tated a straw basket at the back of the heiress
head. Miss Fairbairn has made a rule of that
straw-basket display, which is honey-colored and
luxuriant. The fiery-headed Brodribbs made a
smart pair of sisters. They make a glory of their
fire-locks. Mrs. Andrew Ghirnside was a magpie-
shaded 1830 model. Mrs. Charlie Ryan hit the
fashion-nail on the head with a soft grey outfit
showing a 16-inch waist.
“The LachlanMackinnonsdrive m an imported
landau, behind an imported jeliu, wearing im-
ported tailorings, and holding imported views of
things. The Scotch missus must have had a poor
notion of her Australian spouse when she brought
out servants, horses, clothes, silver and other
accoutrements as a provision for an Australian
existence—to make sure of something of civilisa-
tion. Reminds me of some people I know who,
coming out to Australia a few years ago, brought
out everything, even to clotlies-pegs, as if they
were coming here to a Robinson Crusoe existence.
After all, it’s not surprising. The ‘ Bad Fish ’ folk
of Australian politics are always representing this
as a country where they can’t make anything.
“ The wedding of Miss Ivy Deakin, the long,
shy, Titian daughter of the Prime Minister, with
her Herbert Brookes, was a private and unfashion-
able affair. The Wesleyan Church, South Yarra,
is not a place for a gorgeous rally. Considering
the very quiet nature of the festivity the chiffons
were fine. They deserved a full house. One de-
parture in the bridal outfit was the sprig of orange
blossom carried, instead of the shower bouquet.
The bride is a most sedate and solemn young
charmer or that sprig-carrying would have looked
comically jaunty.
“The John Coo’ s, of frozen-mutton fame, are
off now to Bananaland. They are never still for
long.
“ At a recent suburban hop a batch of girleens
left at half-time in hot indignation at being
stranded among the onlooking inarms and the hall
draperies. It was a revolt —the first spirited
revolt of the wall-flowers.
“Miss Malla Dempster —a Williamstown native,
and bush-fire-headed sister of Mrs. Wesley Hall —
trotted forth some quaint old ‘family pearls ’ for
her grand kow-tow, at Buckingham Palace or
wherever it was. Williamstown fainted on its
grimy sands when it heard this. It had no idea
that family gems and heirlooms blazed at the
bleak old port, and the inhabitants are looking
round the timber yards for traces of a family tree.
“The M‘Eacharns are coming back. Goath-
lands is to be wrested from the clutch of the moth
and the spider, and made ready for the owners at
the end of Bent’s financial year. ’Tis understood
that Dame M‘Eacharn has fretted for’roo-land,
and, rather than see her bright locks go grey with
grief, the laird has consented to return.
“ Madame Cre velli is once more settled at Albert
Park, after a jaunt to Paris. The bright dame has
had a glad welcome. Few in this neighborhood
fly the festive flag as often or with the same sense
of jollity, and the cream of society gathers thick
on the Cre velli mat at such times.
“ The Try Society newsboys’ hop was a success.
From the Cliveden Dowager down to the small
suburban hustler the fancy schenle of the thing
was carried out by sets which looked bright but
chaotic. Props bunched with wattle were con-
veyed through the programme by one lot. Posies
with pie-dish collars by another. From the high,
crimped tops of a third contingent bunches of red
cherries bobbed cheerily. The Staughton set
(Mrs. Seton Williams chiefly prevailing) had
stuck their thatches into the flower-bin, left one
portion done into a roly curl adroop, and polkaed
with immense pink clusters of carnations thrust
into the faces of their partners. For a very brief
while the Grey Dame of Stonington looked on;
then, after saying something polite in her 60deg.
manner (it sometimes warms even to 70deg.), she
passed out.
“ A preliminary coming-out occurred the other
night at a rehearsal hop for Miss Doy Bird—
eldest hope of the long, attractive medico. The
affair was kept as juvenile as possible. Another
juvenile shivoo, just past the knickerbocker stage,
was bossed by Miss Mabel Emmerton before
chilly June departed. At this the girls were
mostly spring chickens, but the bachelors ran to
the slippered age.
“There is a girding up of Toorak loins fora
dashing, splashing Hunt Club ball. Meetings at
Menzies’ drew crowds that augured gorgeous
success. Tickets are to be priced high and kept
in the hands of the committee, by way of an
effort to keep the thing “nice.”
“ The one large, sparklesome hop of the week,
on semi-private lines, was given by a batch of
Toorakites at Noorilim, the residence of the
Winter-Irvings. This family, that so religiously
carries its hyphen through life, has a grand ball-
room and a large capacity for being generous. So
the batch aforesaid gave its shivoo under the
hyphenated roof, and did as little damage as
possible. It was a scarlet ball programmes,
floral scheme, globe-shades all in the same blush-
ing tone.
“ The friends of the Broughs came forward and
furnished evidence of their good memory. For
hours after their arrival, the messengers of Flora
straggled up to the Grand with baskets and boxes
of the season’s fairest blossoms. I had a glimpse
of a brown-headed Mrs. Brough behind a pyramid
of wired dandelion and fern in her room at the
hostelry. She was full of delight at Melbourne’s
enthusiastic remembrance.
“The first member of the Brough-Flemming
Go. to get a ‘ reception ’ at the Princess s was
Mrs. Brough—a rejuvenated favorite in cream
satin —as she took her place in a stage box before
the curtain rose. The demonstration of recognition
was even heartier than the greeting that Nellie
Stewart got on her return from England six years
ago when the Musgrove management was about to
be inaugurated with a low-pitched performance of
‘II Trovatore.’ Not many people in the d.c.
seemed to know that another leading lady had the
seat facing Mrs. Brough. It was Miss Beatrice
Day, who is being held in reserve for The Walls
of Jericho ’—a tali handsome woman with a strong
grofile and a commanding turn of the head.
>n the next floor, in the manager’s box, Janet
Clarke beamed upon the proceedings, and Captain
Buchanan cavaliered the party.
“‘Beauty and the Barge’ is mostly Barge
when you com.o to think about it.. -Lho gill part
gives no opportunities for rich raiment, or fetch-
ing display of emotion. Miss Winifred Fraser
wears simple gowns and an artless expression, and
the expression on Saturday was rather hampered
by a patchy make-up, especially in the first act.
Her stage lover, Mr. Carter Piclcford, is the
typical well-mannahed young man from London,
and she has a stage mother (Miss Kate Gair) of
the youngest possible appearance.
“Signora Nora Dane-Valenti gave a recital at
the Queen’s Hall, London, the other week,
winning a sweet notice from the Daily lelegraph
critic, who had said some unkind things about
the ex-Melbourne girl’s singing when she
made her first appearance in the Big Smoke
three years ago. Signora Nora is now happily
wedded to the Italian method of voice produc-
tion, and she sings languishing arias or
dainty ballads with her own Australian-JLrish
feeling. It was a very Germanised sort of Nora
dermann upon her handsome young head,
gurgled when she should have warbled, and he
diction in the one or two English songs she was
permitted to sing gave her the sound ot a
Deutscher fraulein. But she has altered all that.
The programme of Signora Dane-Valenti s recital
reveals only one small relic of her early tuition
song by Rubinstein. Her other numbers were
Italian, French, and English, the last including
‘A Ballad of Kisses,’ which fetched a tumultuous
encore. In her days of gasp and gurgle the bon-
servatorium pupil would have preferred death to
such musical frivolity as ‘ A Ballad of Kisses.
“ Julius didn’t look the least his old Superbus of
the Legs last week when he anchored at Menzies .
Fair cronies gathered round him, and ottere
burnt-scone offerings in the cafes in thanksgiving
for his recovery. But Julius was sombre. Kven
his clothes were dull. He was too weak to wear a
red and green vest. When the Knight leaves off
his rainbow-tinted vests and substitutes the habili-
ments drab, things are serious.
“ Two Sydney sisters, with the name of Reilly,
or something equally emerald, have caught the
eye of the Melbourne baldheads who frequent the
Princess’s stalls. The two trippers are m the
Stevenson chorus, where they score top points tor
looks and a rather superior line of figure.
“ The Westminster Glee Party had an audience
for its first concert (Saturday) which nearly failed
the Town Hall. Maybe the ‘Westminster
Abbey ’ tradition had more to do with the rush for
tickets than the memory of the Branscombe co. s
former pleasant performances. Present squad ot
boy singers, as likely as not, has been recruited in
ordinary secular, not to say worldly, ways, quite
outside cathedral circles. But members of
suburban Anglican choirs, young-lady organists
and churchwardens’ wives, prefer to attend the
concerts from a sense of duty to Church and State.
Fortunately duty in this case is not divorced
from pleasure. The ’Minster glee club holds
by its sound old-English repertoire, and, though
less of a novelty than before, provides entertain-
ment which would be tolerable even if it were
supplied by Freethinkers. Edward Branscombe
sang with cultured taste and feeling, as hereto-
fore. Marie Hooton brought out the points of
‘The Bailiff’s Daughter,’ set to Branscombe
music. Sterndale Bennett, the new basso, was
taken to the hearts of hearers, and W. Edgley, a
cherubic boy soloist, warbled with the full, care-
less tone of a thrush. Dudley Causton, the fiinny
man, presented his ‘humorous sketch, to lighten
the theological atmosphere, and found it as
acceptable as a joke in a sermon.
“ The Thomas Brothers are the favorite draw-
ing-room artists of the stylish hour. The pair of
pocket-edition Pierrots have a taking way with
them, so the dames hereabouts exclaim: Bucn
gentlemanly little fellows! ’ Their show is modelled
on the Mel. B. Spurr lines, and is full of charm
and sentiment.
“An amorous ‘occupant of the Bench’ was
responsible, it is said, for therecent journeying Eng-
landward of a matron whom he had pursued with
his attentions. In this case the pertinacity of the
learned Judge was something extra. He shadowed
the object of his affection in her walks abroad,
striving to catch her eye, and sometimes raising
his hat in a futile attempt to achieve an informal
introduction. If she entered a shop, the persistent
one was in the doorway, ogling her. No matter
how long she dawdled over her purchases she
found him on the pavement when she came out.
He followed her into trains and tram cars.
She could go nowhere without meeting him, or
suffering a creepy dread of his approach, which
was just as bad. The Law was on her track, so
to speak, and finally the harassed woman made
her escape to England ; but as to why she chose to
flee, instead of making the judge flee, the story is
mysteriously silent.
“ The Y.R.C. has issued a plain violet card
with treacle lettering, to the Press, adjuring the
holder to hand it not to another on any pretext,
threatening direful penalties for disobedience.
The intimation ‘ Press Business Only ’ is lettered
large in violent capitals, and the whole thing looks
like a threat. Considering the artistic attain-
ments of sec. Byron Moore, the card is a
horror —the kind of thing one would very likely
get as a complimentary pasteboard to a meeting
of a Dyspeptic Pessimists’ Association.
4 ‘ The squatter who bolted from this State for a
change of air and rest from domesticity and from
‘the deuce of a life,’ is still abroad. The fa,mily
hangs on here dejectedly, waiting for the trip to
pall. A man who runs from unhappiness is the
wisest coward in creation.”
Here endeth my Melbourne correspondent, and
I resume Sydney chronicles.
(Continued on page 35.)


INDIGESTION.
Williams ’ Pink Pills Cur© with Rich Red Blood.
EVERY case of Indigestion, no matter how
bad, can be cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. Not only cured—but cured for
good.
That’s a sweeping statement—and you are
quite right in demanding evidence to back it.
And it is backed by evidence in plenty —living
evidence among your own neighbors.
Ask them and they will tell you of dozens in
your own district who have been cured by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills of dizziness, palpitation,
biliousness, sour stomach, sick headaches, and the
internal pains of Indigestion.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure because they
strike straight at the root of all stomach trouble.
They actually make new pure red blood. And new
blood is just what the stomach needs to set it right
and give it strength for its work. Even the first
box or two will give you a wonderful appetite—
and a few weeks later every trace of Indigestion
will have gone. That is what Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills did for Mr. A. T. Porteus, and they can do
the same for you.
“Five years ago I was a martyr to a bad
stomach,” said Mr. A. T. Porteus, 6 Napier-
street, Paddington, Sydney. “My illness started
with a thumping, throbbing pain in my head,
right between the eyes. Sometimes it nearly
blinded me. If I took a mouthful of food, a
cutting pain soon caught me at the end of the
breast-bone. My head used to ache by the hoar,
and every morning I got up heavy and drowsy,
with a horrible brassy taste in my mouth.
“Of course, I couldn’t eat, and I lost weight.
Mv clothes were like bags on me,’ Mr. 1 orteus
went on to say. “When I stood up after lying
down a strange feeling would come over me. and
mv head would swim with dizziness itvery
little while I had a bilious attack. Just before it
came on I would grow cold all over, and great
heavy beads of perspiration would stand out on
my forehead. After it was over, 1 would shiver
and shake, and feel as weak as a kitten.
“ I felt so miserable and downhearted that J
didn’t care whether I lived or died, btill, I went
on taking all sorts of medicines. 1 wasted many
a pound this way before I read about other cases
like mine, that were cured by Dr. W llliams 1 ink
Pills. I made up my mind to give them a fair
trial —so T got a good supply. To my delight the
first box gave me a wonderful appetite, hiom
that on, every dose did me good. My stomach
gradually got back its strength, boon I was
feeling as healthy and strong as any man. how
my digestion is perfect—thanks entirely to Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.” , _ _ „ . o .
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mr. Porteus of
Indigestion because they went down to the rootot
the trouble in his blood. That is why they never
fail. Bad blood is the cause of all common dis-
eases like anaemia. (bloodlessness), eczema, pale-
ness he 1 1 iches, neuralgia, sciatica, rheumatism,
lumbago, general weakness, and the special ail-
ments that onlv women folk know. Bad blood is
the one cause—and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
the one cure, because they actually make new
blood. They do just one thing— but they do it
well They don’t bother with mere symptoms.
They don’t cure for a day-they cure for good.
Do not take any pills without the full name, Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People on the
wrapper round the box— and remember that they
are always in boxes, never in bottles. Sold by all
chemists and storekeepers, or sent post free by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a
box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d. Medical advice
given free.
WILLIAMS
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
J. H. Gearing, of Maryborough (Vic.), is
probably the oldest newspaper-man in active
every-day service in the Commonwealth. A few
days ago he touched 84.
An Adelaide pressman has discovered a
coincidence. The two test-match captains, Joe
Darling and F. S. Jackson, are the same age to a
day. Both will be 35 on the 21st of November.
An indigent young man who went “on
the lands ” a few years ago, and has been doing a
fine commission-agency business since, is said to
have had, at one time, lately, a small matter of
about £70,000 in one Sydney bank.
If W. N. Willis, who is a very fetching
reciter, will, on his return, take Sydney Town
Hall and undertake to speak a piece or two, he
can be sure of an audience as big as ever faced
Jessie M'Lachlan. Everyone wants to see
Nicholas Willis, the money-spinner.
Andy Thomson and Eugene Ryan, passed
to Waverley (Sydney) Cemetery during the weelc,
were strenuous political workers, each of whom
coveted, but never won, a Parliamentary seat.
Andy was an uncompromising Socialist, and
Eugene an open-handed Democrat.
“ Alix ” : Be electoral rolls (B. 22/6/’of>).
In the Alberton (S.A.) district, one woman has
“imbecile” set down as her occupation. It
doesn’t seem a remunerative job. but it is one
which should keep her busy. A person may be a
carter for eight hours a day, but a professional im-
becile has a 24 hours’ job.
Tom Playford, Deakin’s Defence Minister,
has been a bit of a warrior all his life. And his
father was a real soldier, a Life Guardsman, who
figured among the hosts on the field of Waterloo,
but turned afterwards to the Church, and arrived
in Adelaide as a preacher. It is 37 years since
Playford entered S.A. Parliament, and he has
been hammering Toryism ever since.
R. L. Outhwaite, formerly of Melbourne,
is mentioned as likely to take on the unpromising
job of opposing Chamberlain for the Birmingham
West seat, which Joseph has held since 1885.
Before leaving Australia a few year s ago Outh-
waite collaborated with C. H. Chomley in a novel,
“ The Wisdom of Esau,” written around the land-
dummying question. In England he has acted as
lecturer for the Liberals.
John M'lntosh, N.S. Wales M.L.C.,
whose firm obtained the _ £BOO libel verdict
against a trade protection society, lost both parents
before his 10th year, and at that time was earning
2s. 6d. per month. In 1839 he came to N. 3. W. as
an assisted immigrant, and took a billet on the
Paterson. A few years later, having saved some
siller, he returned to Sydney and started in
Sussex-street as a dealer in hardware. Moving
into Pitt-street, he built up by degrees the present
big business.
GOVERNOR TALBOT AND CO.
Senator Gregor M‘Gregor, of S.A., is
almost blind, and consequently seldom ventures
into the street without the assistance of some
friendly guide. A few days ago Mac., on the arm
of Bob Guthrie, was travelling along King
William-street, when a voice arose : “ Good Lord,
there’s one of those cursed Labor men drunk
Xin ; can’t walk alone.” And the speaker rushed
probably to tell Cohen and Darling about how
the country was going to the dogs.
Another man has come back to Australia
with the same old grievance against Private Enter-
prise. One Gillespie, a top dog in the local mill-
ing business, has reported to the papers that
Sydney shippers have despatched gram to the
Asiatic markets in such filthy, rotten bags that
Japan and China are now holding their noses at
the very mention of Australian wheat. This
returned traveller, who is a prop of the anti-
Socialistic Chamber of Horrors, has the same old
remedy to offer—Government interference to con-
trol the export.
The most unfortunate point about the
fact that Caldwell has been dropped out of Parlia-
ment by the S.A. electors is that he now has time
to write drayloads of verse on every local dog-fight
or sermon. And the Register, prints them all—
presumably out of consideration for the old bard's
public services. One verse from his latest effusion
on radium :
An atom of this substance strange
Has made the germs of life appear
Within the juice of beef ! The change
Is truly wonderful, my dear.
Emily Crawford, Paris correspondent of
the Times and of Truth (London), has published
a book entitled “ Victoria, Queen and Ruler,”
which reminds those who had forgotten, and
informs the present generation, that the English
people did not always regard the late sovereign
as a saint. The Times once asserted that she
“had lost all self-respect.” A convocation of
clergy at Canterbury styled her a Jezebel, and
denounced her “orgies.” She was publicly
greeted by the mob on various occasions as “ Mrs.
Melbourne.” After her marriage, scandal was,
however, silent until her extraordinary regard for
John Brown provoked unfavorable comment.
“G.H.”: This is how a lady friend of
mine summed up George Reid : “ 1 don’t know
anything about his politics, but his waistcoat and
legs are the greatest mistake I’ve ever seen.”
Henry Baylis, killed by a train at Home-
bush (N.S.W.), the other day, was one of the
early police magistrates of the State, and saw
Australian life in the rough. He was born at
Edinburgh (Scotland) in 1826, came to N.S.W.
when a boy, and was educated at King’s School,
Parramatta. Later, he gained legal experience in
the office of solicitor Fitzliardinge (father of
Judge Fitzhardinge) in Sydney, and gathered
bush ditto on a station near Bathurst. He was
one of the first party to take horses down the
Murrumbidgee track for the Adelaide market.
Next, he was C.P.S. at Hartley, and then for 38
years Police Magistrate at Wagga—a billet that
was occasionally exciting. Once, on his travels,
he happened on Dan Morgan’s merry men. The
boss ’ranger, Clarke, and the P.M. fired almost
simultaneously. Baylis was wounded ; the ’rangers
got away, and Clarke was not seen again. Baylis
retired from the service in 1896.
N.S.W. State Treasurer had quite a wind-
fall lately. In one week nearly £30,000 was paid
in probate duty. More than half the amount
came from the executors of Frederick Perks, of
Glebe Point, a retired warehouseman, formerly of
Pitt-street and Foxlow-place (now Moore-street),
whose contribution amounted to £15,127 16s. lOd.
Mr. Perks left £151,278. Adolphus Rogalsky,
who was suspected of owning half Sydney,
left £56,200, which yielded £4383 12s. Mr.
Rogalsky left his widow £750 a year, and
his brother in oppressed Poland £3O a year.
A careful man was Rogalsky. The trustees are
ordered to invest the residue of the trust moneys
and pay the interest arising therefrom to his two
sons until they have arrived at the age of 35 years.
At that mature period they will get the principal
of their fortune. The Sydney estate of “ Tat-
tersall” Adams amounted to £56,615, paying
£4415 19s. sd. to the revenue.
The one member of Reid’s just-displaced
Government for whom one can have any sym-
pathy is George Turner, and his case is almost
pathetic. The quiet, plodding man who did
so much in the ’9o’s to straighten Victoria’s
boom-wrecked finances; who forced the first Fac-
tories Act and Minimum Wage Law through the
obstreperous House of Fat by quiet persistence;
who has stood honestly for Federal ideals against
State bumptiousness; who would ere this have
federalised the public debts had he got the
backing he had a right to expect,—Turner retires,
ill, ageing, and worn, his public career apparently
ended, his private practice mostly sacrificed. And
his last precarious spell of office was in alliance
with a crowd which represented everything against
which he fought in his best days. He had been a
Premier for nearly six years, and the name he
built up in that time was sacrificed for the joy of
being, for 10 months, the fourth man in a job lot
of renegades who held office by a majority of two.
Mrs. Senator Macfarlane, speaking at a
National Ass. drawing-room meeting in Hobart,
held forth on the ignorance of Labor members.
According to the Mercury report, the lady said :
Most of the Labor members were honest, straight*
forward men, but more or less ignorant, not excepting
their leader, Mr. Watson. With one exception, they did
not seem to have much education.
Whereupon Hobart Clipper unearthed the fol-
lowing gem, from a “return thanks” advertise-
ment inserted in the local papers, after last
Federal election, by the lady’s husband, Senator
Macfarlane :
It is indeed an honor—elected an untried politician
three rears ago—that after you have tried and proved me
I should be placed in the high position you have done,
and to have such support from the whole of Tasmania.
As in the past, the policy and trust I have endeavored to
carry out, and which have met with so much gratifying
approval, will, to the best of my ability, be carried out in
the future.—l remain, yours faithfully, Jambs Macfak-
lane.
And now Mrs. Macfarlane is presumably not
returning thanks to the National Ass. ladies that
“I should be placed in the high position you have
done.”
Colonel Williams, N.S.W. boss military
medico, has an ingenious turn for ambulance-
waggon making. The British War Office
purchased a couple of his ideas, and runs
them now for wounded Tommies. Also
the waggon used in many Australian
mines—Broken Hill in particular
is constructed after Colonel
Williams’ model, and many a
damaged miner blesses the in-
ventor.
Mr. George Miller, who retires from
N.S.W. public service, comes of an old Imperial-
service stock. Commissary Miller was an impor-
tant officer at Sydney over half a century ago.
George was born m Sydney. He studied for the
Church, and next for the army, and next for the
civil service. Then he went station hunting
through Queensland, dived back to Sydney, and
trotted from department to department—Post
Office, Education Office, Colonial Secretary’s, and
finally Justice.
PREGAUTION.
“ Get up off the wet grass, you naughty boy.
You’ll catch cold.”
"No, I won't. I’se dot me doloshers on.”
S.A. Yankee ex-Premier Jenkins has been
getting himself honored in his own country on his
way to London. Minneapolis Tribune calls him
“ Premier and Minister of the Northern Territory
ot Australia,” and says he goes to England “as
Minister-General for his country ; it is a similar
position and practically the same as Minister to
England from the United States.”
This is gravely published in the Argus :
Ballarat, Tuesday. — Mr. VV. Galt, who left for England
bv the Ophir, has written a letter to the members of the
Ballarat East Town Council, which demonstrates the
value of the council’s testimonial as a foreign
passport. He says:—“ I had a slight misfortune
with the testimonial given me by the council, it
was blown through the porthole a few days ago in
the Mediterranean. It was a useful document, and
gained me an introduction to the heads of Governments
at the different ports. lam sorry I have lost it, but you
might send me another. At Ceylon I was well received,
as the people are glad to converse with a PUBLIC MAN
from Australia, so long as he is not a party to the exclusion
of aliens f rom the Commonwealth."
Apparently this “ public man,” who has to carry
a letter from Ballarat East Town Council to keep
the head and face of his public character above the
waters of oblivion, is of the Stinking Fish per-
suasion, and has been making himself agreeable at
the Turkish-bath city of Colombo by going back
on his country.
“ W.8.M.” Concerning J. C. Watson :
I had not heard Watson on his feet for five years until
the other night, and was impressed by his development in
matter and manner. In the pre-Federal sittings of N.S.\ •
Assembly, Watson was a precise, concise and deferential
debater. He put his points with studied modesty, and
obviously reckoned himself among the rank and file ot a
by no means brilliant party. He was fluent, but not for-
cible ; certain, but not aggressive; earnest, but not,
weightv ; definite, but not dexterous. His periods were
not polished, but there was a journalistic brevity and
point and sequence in his sentences which showed a
mastery of detail and a confidence in arrangement. But
he never opened out, he never flung a phrase with the
spontaneity of the bold rhetorican and the defiant Parlia-
mentarian. He was more at pains to control himself than
to secure the attention of others. His voice, too, was
against him. It was distinct, but it was .sharp and
metallic. You heard him all right, but the voice jailed a
little. His lean, athletic form, his well poised iiead, trank
face, and bright, alert eyes were then his best points.
I listened to quite a different Watson the other night.
It was Watson, the leader of a dominant party, with the
consciousness of his responsibility and the confidence of
himself. No timidity impeded his rhetoric, no haunting
fear of failing in a phrase or losing ah idea marred his
manner, and no lack of confidence weakened the magnetic
power he obviously exercised over a rapt audience, a
big idea, definitely and delightfully dictioned, dropped
effectively on the ears of those who watched tor eveij
word. He never bothered to hold himse.f; he knew he
held his audience harnessed to his theme. He was
mesmeric. And a great change has come over his v oice.
It is no longer metallic; it is full, resonant vibrant,
pleasant. Watson has discovered, or somebody has dis-
covered for him, that he has the platfornispcakersvoH-e
It is not so cultured as Deakin’s, so rich as l)alle> s o
pleasant as Barton’s, but it is a fine, virile, ringing, valu-
able voice.
“ A.” : The British press and maga-
zines are loaded with character
sketches of the Czar. He is de-
picted as a thin autocrat, Hack
faced, doll-eyed, a coward and
a weakling. His enemy the
Mikado, on the other hand,
is a calm, benevolent per-
son who refuses in winter
to warm himself at the
kitchen fire. What man-
ner of weakling is Nicholas
II? Two fleets and two
armies destroyed; troubles
domestic and political;
perdition on all sides; yet
he is still on deck. With
a more cohesive nation,
like Germany, at his back
he would fling his last
legion into Manchuria.
The Czar is thin. ihe
British public mistrust an
emperor who is devoid of
paunch. They like some-
thing for their money.
The Czar has failed to
impress the stout jour-
nalist and the stout ambas-
sador. The stout editor
who runs the scissors round
Nicholas’ photos, puts down
the scarcity of paunch to frailty
of purpose. Nicholas suggests
to me a smaller edition of Mah-
moud II of Turkey, the man who
saw Egypt, Syria, and Greece jn
revolt; France, Britain and Russia
rampaging round his empire; his vaasai,
Ali of Janina, scattering his best troops
his prize regiments in a state of mutiny an
politely f<« his own heed at h.s o«v
palace gate: and about nineteen of his pro-
vincial governors setting up for themselves-
and who g still pulled through. He was also
pictured as a man with very little stomach.
The old-time sportsman Hurtle Fislier r
who passed out in Melbourne the other day,
had a close call nearly half a century ago. H
was a passenger on the Admella, owned by the
old Melbourne hi m of M'Meckan, Blackwood and
Co., which was piled up on Carpenter s rocks
near Cape Northumberland, Aug. i tli, 1859,
bound from Adelaide to Melbourne. Out of li3
persons on board 79 were drowned Hmong them a
number of racing men cn route to the Via
Champion meeting. The remainder
Hurtle Fisher, hung on to the wreck for mg t
days before they were rescued a lld at
Portland. The wreck was first reported at Cape
Northumberland lighthouse, and the conveyance
of the news from there to Mount Gambier, the
nearest telegraph station, is said to have furnished
the inspiration for Lindsay Gordon s P? e “»
“From the Wreck.” The Admella, a craft of
360 tons, with engines of 100 h.p., was a crack
vessel of these days. Things have moved since
then.
THE NAKED HAND.
ISAACSTEIN: “ Vell, vell! Remember, doctor , I
put meinselfs entirely into your hands.”
DOCTOR: “ Umph! That’s about all you ever
have put into them.”
A word about a good man who is gone :
Andrew Thomson, for many years a prominent figure-
in Sydney Domain as an exponent of Marxian Socialism ,
in opposition to the Socialism of the Labor party, died
list 1 week He was one of a Scotch family of fourteen,
and came to Australia early in life He had practica l)-
no schooling, but he had a will which helped him
over obstacles, and he built up a knowledge of many
subjects which a university-trained man might well tau
envied. Thomson, though he broke anav from the
Political Labor Leagues, because they were too narrow
for his free soul, remained a staunch trade unionist to
the end His death (at 47) was caused by “ stonemason s
consumption. There were no long-haired, ferocious,.
Snanish-looking Socialists at the grave-side in Waverley
cemetery. Even the wildest Bruce Smith would have
beeiTdriven to admit, if he had seen the gathering, that
his picture was horribly out of drawing.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running l day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EY'ERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
m MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH. %
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CI.OTH.
We will be bound Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2076.
FALIERES’ PHOSPHATINE'
A Valuable adjunct to lnlantlle Dietary.
I'srents who would rear Strong Children, And Avoid
Um trouble! incidental to Teething, should use It.
‘A
msmrm
__ TAUtMS_>
FOOD FOR INFANTS & INVALIDS
All Chemiits and Oaocibs.
Aboriginalities.
GLUTTONS.
“Eit! Mil word , them there Sydney people jest
can cat. I trucks 50 of these cores down once
every six months , and hang me if that
satisfies them."
“ D.” : For ten years James Muldoon had
pinned his faith to pigs, but swine fever came
along and knocked his profits endways. Then one
of his neighbors breathed in his ear that bees, and
nothing but bees, would lift the mortgage from
the roof and fill the cupboard with cheese and
honey. Muldoon bought a hive (people said he
won it in a raffle) and told his wife that they
would be exporting honey within' 12 months.
Nothing happened to Muldoon’s investment until
one day the swarm .settled on a bush in Smith's
paddock. Smith was a thrifty man ; he took life,
and especially bees, in dead earnest. In a flash he
rushed out with a kerosene case and captured
Muldoon’s black Italian swarm. Muldoon
watched him thoughtfully, then loafed towards
Smith’s fence. “Thim’s my haze ye’ve col-
lared, Joe,” he said gently. “ What’s in the air’s
mine, though,” answered Smith. “Besidesl ain’t
goin’ to let your bees bleed my grapes and vines.”
Muldoon was a harsh man ; he had never been
known to smile when angry. Jumping the fence,
he seized the case and tried to swing Smith round
the paddock. Smith got a good grip of the kero-
sene case, and in a firm voice said he’d see things
out. Muldoon tore round Smith, and tried to
backheel him on to a sleeping cow. Smith clung
to the case desperately, and allowed Muldoon to
drag him over seven acres of ground before the
case snapped and fell to pieces. Bees are peace-
ful citizens, but they object to be waved about
by a pair of infuriated cockies. Within a few
seconds of the break-up Smith had 1764 black
bees crawling over his face and through his hair.
Smith drew a long breath, and said that if Mul-
doon would wait until he wiped the insects off
himself, he would also wipe Muldoon into the
far end of nowhere. The 1764 bees seemed to
like Smith. They fell down his neck and into his
pockets. When he reached for his handkerchief
he merely wiped a lot of hard-thinking bees across
his face and mouth. “ Yez ’ll wipe the fltire wuth
me, eh?” shouted Muldoon. “Come on neow,
Joe!” lie smote Smith on the brow, where the
bees had formed themselves into a hollow square
and were telling each other that there wasn’t much
honey about Smith. Then Smith said that until
the bees were wiped off him he would not attempt
to defend himself, but when Muldoon smote him
where another allotment of insects had gathered,
Smith hurled himself, bees and all, at Muldoon.
Bees are fair-minded insects, and when Smith cast
himself feet and arms at his opponent, they left
him and settled thoughtfully on Muldoon. Mul-
doon had red hair, and the sudden change of
climate seemed to agree with them. They tra-
velled around him, and entrenched themselves
firmly on the hollow parts of his countenance.
Then Smith began to hit him where the bees stood
thickest. Dead bees fell off Muldoon in showers.
In the nine hits that Smith made at Muldoon he
never missed a bee. The fight lasted till sunset,
when the Muldoon and Smith families arrived
home and joined the fray. Within an hour there
was not a live insect in the paddock. Mrs. Mul-
doon said afterwards that she thoroughly enjoyed
dusting the bees off Mrs. Smith, and Mrs. Smith
says she helped more bees off Mrs. Muldoon than
that lady ever wore before.
• * * »
“ Werrimee ” : In B. (29/6/’0o) “W.P.8.”
asks for the origin of the name “ paddymelon,” at
the same time describing the animal as a kanga-
roo-rat. The name is probably a corruption of
parrimalla, the Murray River aboriginal name of
the beastie. The animal is a common scrub
wallaby (once the greatest pest of the river-bank
cockies),3 and quite distinct from the rat-kan-
garoos, or jerboaroos. These latter are harmless
little creatures, which love the grassy forests, and
I have never heard a bad name applied to
them by a cocky. The cocky’s marsupial enemies
are wallabies, bandicoots, and ’possums ; if he is a
poultry-raiser, the native cat must be included.
* * «r *
Said Bill : “ We ’ad a tart stayin’ at out-
place once what ’ad the beautifulest’ead uf ’air
ver over sighted. It wus that thick an’’eavy it
* often made ’er’ead ache. I uster
watch ’er dryin’ it in the sun out
in the back yard by the ’en-’ouse,
and when she shook it, it wus
like a shower er golden quids.
She got a bit sweet on me after
a while, an’ when the old woman
wus out, ’ud lay on the sofa and
say, ‘ Oh, Bill ! me ’ead aches
’orrible ! ’ ’Course that wus the
orfice, an’ I uster pull the pins
out an’ run me fingers through,
an’ stroke it till she purred like
a blessed kitten. ’Struth, I was
getting dead shook, but she got
the fever an* they took ’er to the
’orspital an’cut it all off. Stiike
me dead, when I seen ’er agin,
thin an’ white and with ’er mop
gome, I felt the lemon squeeze, in
me lamps, an’ went down to
Mother Sinker's an’got paralytic.
Yes ! i know your Lil has a good mop. I noticed
it down at ther last shazzev. But, blime ! yer
should a-seen this tart —she’d a dazzled yer ! ”
And Bill spat sorrowfully straight into the ear of
a passing dog.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pan”: On the weary way to
White Cliffs saw two men pelting at something
in a big tank. Glad to break the monotony of
mulga travelling I went over to investigate.
Found the two travellers shying clods, &c., at five
teal, which did not seem to care about flying
away. Asked several sarcastic questions. The
fellow with the freckled face said : “ No, matey, we
ain’t townies. We ain’t doin’ this fa fun. We’re
doin’ nit ta ketch ducks. We caught one urreday.
When the teal flies out them there two sparrer-
hawks swoops at them and gives them a crack ;
then we rushes up. Stop and watch.” I stopped
and watched. In about ten minutes the hawks
smote three teal, of which the travellers secured
two before the hawks could recover their prey.
The other two teal flew back to the tank and re-
fused to be dislodged by clods or otherwise.
A FOOLISH IDEA.
“ Wots wrong with old Smith? He looks
as if a motor-car had run over ’im."
“O he got that after the football match.
They were all hooraying, and he called
for three cheers for the umpire .”
“D.” : The present intention of the Yic.
Education Department to provide decent resi-
dences for backblox teachers is not at all prema-
ture. Know one case where the “residence”
consists of two rooms, one 12ft. by Bft., the other
Bft. square. Further, said school is a good three
miles from any other house where the teacher
might abide, and is the best part of 10 miles from
a store.
* * * , *
“Ne’er-do-Weel” (about whose veracity
let others speak):—
What’s all the fuss being made by “Ham ” and “Bung ”
about a rabbiter doing-in a cheque for £l4O at Echuca ?
Why, during the last years of the ’Bo’s, rabbiters in N.S.
Waies were earning anything from £5 to £lO a week and
upwards, clear of exes., and they knew how to spend their
money, too. Any man driving a specially elegant
trap was at once put down as a bunny-killer. At
Wileannia in 1887, or thereabouts, the most gorgeous
champagne supper ever seen was given by a rabbiter who,
on his arrival at the pub, put down a cheque for £ 1070
odd, to pay for a sixpenny drink.
* * * »
“Orthos”: Be the finding of wild-bees’
nests (“ Thurla,” B. 25/5/ 05). I have found
hundreds of nests, and I never knew the bush-
man yet who could line the flight of a bee to its
home. Stumps, logs, trees, and the height at
which the bee flies make it impossible. Even the
blaekfellow, with his razor-keen sight, always
handicaps the bee. Promised a nig once a shilling
to get some honey. Filling his mouth with
water, he squirted it on the first bee he met,
then, pulling a bit of weed from which exuded a
sticky substance, he applied it to a bit of feathc r
(not thistle-down), and stuck it on the insect s
back. After a run and tumble of about 400 yards
he located the nest. Whilst he was up the tree I
asked, “ Blent) A honey, .Tacky?” “Baal, no
good,” he replied. “No honey, no money,”
thought I, and commenced a careful scrutiny of
the ground. “What bin losem, boss?” asked
.Tacky. “Bin losem shillin’, Jacky. ’ .Tacky
promptly slid down the tree and took up the
search, even as far sis the starting-point. A few
days later my brother asked him to get some
honey, promising him a shilling. “ Baal,” he
said/ “ Brudder belonga you lars time say bin
gib it shillin’; then say bin losem shillin’. No
losem—habem all the time—blurry rogue ! ”
* * * *
From a man at Mackay (N.Q.) :
Some sugar-growers and their barrackers are telling the
South that, if they can’t have Kanaka, they will have
Chow. But the Chow will take more handling than ever
Tommy Tanna did. As a wages man he is a most awful
fraud. The slowest cutter governs the progress of all the
others. A Kanaka is a whirlwind in comparison. Kanakas
may be humored and bustled within limits; but the
other, never. Yet, give John a contract for the same job,
and there’s a revelation in the whole-souled way in which
he wires in to finish, and collect his cash, and get away
before you have found out how badly he has done the job.
« * * *
“Scamp”: People who do not look upon
the cockroach as a domestic acquisition are per-
haps not aware of the fact that he is an enthusi-
astic ant-exterminator. When the ’roach espies
an ant he quickly snaps him in two and leaves the
pieces to ornament the scenery.
“ Janor ” spreads himself like a man and
a brother:—
“ Ham’s” statistics (B. 11/5/’O5) about “doing-in”
cheques are a very pale red when compared with the old-
timers’ achievements. Some lucky diggers I have known
in the days gone by have spent thousands at the rate of
£2OO per week. Had a drink once in the old Royal Hotel
at Castlemaine (Vic.), when the shout totted up £42. A
miner in the same district cleaned up 571 b. of gold once,
in the 50's, and spent the lot in three days. Have seen
nine bottles of champagne set up every time in a skittle
alley all night, and the tenth bottle thrown at them.
Knew one lucky reefer who painted the country red with
£OO,OOO worth of red paint in two years. He shouted
nothing but “ fizz,” never took change from a barmaid, ha 1
a new suit of clothes every morning and lit his wit It
a bank note. Another “ good sort,” who took IOOOoz. out
of a rich leader (Q.), spent the lot on fire water, which he
bad brought to his camp in waggon-loads. All bands
were paralytic for three months, then the hero cleared to
look for another patch. And these were onl\ a few of the
heroic doings of the Early Drunks of Australia.
FAME.
MR. EAR-CHEWER: “What! Don't you know
Tom Jay?" (In a reverential whisper.)
“ Why, he's shouting the drinks !”
Another Smith : Be horse-endurance
(“Elmore,’' B. 22/6/’O5). A firm pf storekeepers
at Matlock (Vic.), seven years ago, owned a horse,
which they missed for over three weeks. It was
discovered at last, 200 ft. inside an old abandoned
tunnel, where it died shortly after. Supposition
was that the horse entered the tunnel mouth to
gat a drink—surrounding cattle slaked their collec-
tive thirst at the same place ; and, probably ven-
turing too far, found himself unable to turn round.
Then, being devoid of sufficient horse, or mare, or
any other, sense to back out, it stalked straight
ahead to its doom.
THE PIONEERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ But the great mass of the Australian immigrants had
proved the noblest race of pioneers in the world. They
went out upon the waste land of Australia and developed
the marvellous resources of this young country, and the
proceeds of their labor of yesterday was the capital of
to-day.”—Ghorob Rkid at Sydney.
Australia owes over £200,000,000. — Statistics.
It is time we changed our fetish, for it groweth old and
tattered;
It is bulgy ; it is baggy ; it is marked with many beers ;
It is time this ancient Mumbo was attacked and strewn
and scattered —
Aye, too long we’ve wept and maundered o'er the precious
Pioneers 1
They’ve been lied about unduly by a horde of politicians—
Their tombstones have been wept upon with weepings
weird and wet;
They’ve been hailed as hefty heroes by ten thousand
rhetoricians —
They who laid the broad foundations of Australia's
Public Debt.
Aye, no statesman ever mentions that the pioneers were
duffers —
That they left their bills for payment by forlorn posterity ;
I remark that they were spielers—they were bankrupt,
cheeky bluffers,
And the cant of pioneering is a sham that wearies me !
The}' went out, so Reid announces, on the waste lands of
Australia,
And they dragged our “ great resources ” from the desert
to the piers ;
But they paid their debts with I O U’s, with P.N’s., inter
alia—
Oh ! let’s cease to moan and maunder o’er the precious
Pioneers!
We were left to pay the piper when the pioneers made
merry—
We were left to hump the burden that they dodged with
calm disdain ;
While the boomsters sleep in comfort in the cheerful
cemetery
We are tramping to the future on the flinty road of Pain !
Aye, the bygone spielers slumber whilst we prod the
bailiffs from us—
Whilst we pacif 3' the Hebrew in the pawnshop o’er the
way ;
Their tombstones say they led 11s to a splendid Land of
Promise—
Yes, a splendid Land of Promise —of Promises to Pay !
They have spent the gold and revelled, and have pranced
around and capered
They have spladied the shining shekels on the gleaming
tavern-bars ;
With the little bills they left behind our premises are
papered—
We receive the corks and wine-lees, and the ash of their
cigars !
So I scout the loud assertion that the pioneers were
wonders —
And I damp their place of slumber with no wash of futile
tears,
For a man’s beneath derision when his offspring’s coin he
squanders—
As their children’s goods were mortgaged by the precious
P oneers !
GRANT HERVEY.


STEEL, compared with Iron, is stronger,
lighter, more lasting and economical.
So is Food when seasoned with
CEREBOS—SALT
because it contains the rich, strengthen-
ing Phosphates of Wheaten Bran.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
“ Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup.” You may
just as well fill it with the purest spirit available.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest and best tonic
known for mind or body. If your back aches it
may be your kidneys—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures
kidney diseases.*
First come the chills, with other ills,
To set us all a-sneezing.
We pay our bills and make our wills,
With coughing and with wheezing.
Around our beds with shaking heads,
The doctors keep us poor,
Till all our dread at last is sped
By Wooos’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
YOUR
RING
PURCHASE
is an anxiety unless you know the
house to buy it at.
We are the Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
We must have done ring's well, or else the discriminating public would not have supported us for so long.
Good rings are valuable as Art productions first, and afterwards for the perfection of their gems.
WE EfIPLOY ART RING MAKERS.
We know the best way to buy, and we prevent all intermediate profits.
15ct. Gold Setting',
5 Opals,
30 -
Marquise Ring,
Diamonds and Sapphires,
Special Diamonds,
our own make,
£lB 18s.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
Uouse in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“Falder”: He criticisms of my bullock-
lore (“Barchain” and “San Remo,” B. 15 and
22/6/’O5). I referred to two loads put in one wag-
gon of Tyson’s. A big load always means a heavy
one with teamsters ; height doesn’t matter much
in level country. “ Barchain ” says nothing about
width of tyres. About twice as much can be
drawn with a wide tyre as with a narrow one, pro-
vided the felloes are well bevelled, so as not to
let the black soil lodge behind them. Then, as
regards bolting bullocks. A team of all young
bullocks will bolt and tie themselves up in knots
just as readily as a team of colts ; that’s why bul-
locldes are so mighty careful to have steady old
polers, pin-bullocks, and teachers. A team new
to the game often bolts when ploughing ; though
jamming the plough in generally stops them
within a few yards. At a show down the Murray,
a few years ago, a prize team of bailies bolted
down the main street, waggon, ribbons, and all.
The band’s big drum started them. Why a team
of bullocks are so steady—they’ve got to be. But
all bullocks are likely, when in the yoke, to feed
about, if the driver takes his eye off them for five
minutes, and thereby tangle the team into knots.
The only safe way to leave a team where there is
feed is to draw the lot out to full length, and then
hook the leader up to a fence or a tree ; they can’t
straggle then.
* * * *
“ M.G.” : You are aware, most likely,
that this country is over-run with rabbits, and is
sometimes visited by a plague of locusts, and
rabbit-yarn writers. I lived out-back in the Bar-
renzone district, for a year or two, boundary riding
fora “dummy,” and I tell you that locusts were
really a blessing in disguise. To be sure, the dis-
guise was rather heavy, but that it was a disguise
will be seen from the following: It was spring
time, and the locusts came in swarms and ate up
the young grass, crops, and green herbage, and
left the country around as barren as a George Reid
argument. Then did the rabbits, finding their
means of subsistence consumed, meet in solemn
conclave and deliberate on the situation. It was
generally agreed that locusts were a nuisance, but
as the rabbits were not so foolish as to keep a per-
manent inspector of nuisances, they could not
take legal proceedings and spend what little funds
they had in endeavoring to recover the irrecover-
able. They decided on revenge, and hit on the
primitive method of destroying the locusts by
eating them. They formed themselves into bat
talions, and made an onslaught, each bunny con-
suming his half-bushel of the pest. Next day the
farmers found dead rabbits lying about in thou-
sands. A few days later the local rabbit inspector
was discovered hanging from a tree, and quite
dead —dead for want of rabbits to inspect.
* * * *
“ S.C.” : Can any “ Go on the land” per-
son explain why so few sons of successful squatters
follow their fathers’ footsteps? I know one squat-
toerat with three sons. Eldest is a surgeon ;
second runs a pub. ; youngest solicits some. And
there are others.
COW THEOLOGY.
"Yes, dear brethren , this is the most touching
incident in the Prodiyal's life; when he came
back his father killed the fatted calf—the
fatted calf, dear brethren, that had been pro-
bably kept for the return of the Prodigal for
y'ars, and y’ars, and gars.”
“B.”: “The Bloke” told me last night Unit
’is old man gets a “ ’onorarium ”; ’is brother
Algernon drors ’is “salary ” ; sister ’Melia earns
er “wages ” ; brother Mick collects ’is “ screw ” ;
and as for “the Bloke,” who is the disgrace and
black sheep of the family, ’e gets ’is “dough.”
EVIDENCE OF A WASTED LIFE.
BARCOO BILL (testifying): “Yus, friends, I've
been a drunkard, a sore, unhappy drunkard.
(Glory!) Why, friends, I’ve got corns on
me chest from breasting the bar.” (Amen!)
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : The vagaries of the
Western West-o’-Darling. At present Broken
Hill is luxuriantly green owing to seasonable
rains, jbut the country in the extreme nor’-west
corner, from Lake Cobhani on to Milparinka,
Tibooburra and Yalpunga (called Yallerpunga
for ethnological reasons), is just desert. Thou-
sands of sheep are being removed to places where
there are grass and water. Some right-out-
backers believe that another record drought is
just getting well under way.
* * * *
“ H.G.” : There are both sport and profit
in wild-pig hunting. Had a month at it once, in
the ’Bo’s, on the Lower Macquarie
(N.S.W.). Being inexperienced, I
thought it possible to muster a large
mob of wild pigs with some domes-
ticated ones to act as what the brumby-
hunters call “coachers.” Bought up
all the mild tame pigs on the sur-
rounding stations, but found that the
wild animals wouldn’t even speak to
them. So I took to running the
grunters to a standstill. Then I’d
jump off my horse, catch the animal
that is scorned of the Jews by the
hind-leg, upset him, and tie three legs
together. Had man with horse and
dray to pick them up and place them
in a yard, where they soon became
tame and friendly bacon. I drove
300-odd head some 70 miles, and got
10s. per head from a butcher, but they
were a weird lot when delivered. They
fastened quickly, some of the full-grown
pigs weighing over 3cwt. No trouble
in “droving” pigs, if the weather is
not too hot. No watching is required
at night, but at sunrise they commence
to move. The pig is an early riser on
the road, and sits up in bed and calls
for his morning snack at break of day.
* * *
“ Melroyd ” : Met a bull-ant
fancier last week. Taking a wooden
match-box from his vest pocket, he
said, “Reader lot in Th’ Bui.l-KTIx
’bout goanna fights, ’aven’t y’ ? Well,”
tapping the box, “ I’ve gotter blessed
anc in ’ere—‘ Tiger’ I calls ’im—wot’ll
beat the lot. Jes’ step over to this
’ere ant-bed, an’ see ’im stiffen ’em.”
Always willing to witness a scrap, I
stepped. Not far, though, for the
fancier suddenly let out several cattle-
yard yells, and started doing a cork-
screw fandango, trying madly all the
time to punch himself between the
shoulder-blades. With remarkable
presence of mind, I rushed up and
dealt him a fearful crash in the desired
spot. Picking himself up, he ripped off his shirt
and vest, and made a discovery. He nearly wept.
“ Y’ve killed poor old Tiger,” was all he said.
Five minutes later I left the fancier rubbing his
bare back against a sapling, while a score of meat
ants played tug-of-war with the lifeless body of
Tiger.
* * * *
A N.Q. sugar-planter followed Dr. Max-
well’s advice on one patch of land, and his old
plan of planting on another. From the former he
cut 84 tons per acre, and from the latter 50 tons.
If the average N.Q. farmer is asked why he does
not take the expert’s advice, he replies that the
expert gets £3OOO a year. Which, as an irrele-
vance, about takes the cake.
An unaccountable Chinaman has been
advertising thus in the Casterton (Vic.) News :
CHING, Gardener, Casterton, China, General
Art Union, Informs all sort Business. I see
mostly Tiger eat a man, I never see man eat Tiger.
'People can’t find out what sort of Devil I am adver-
tise in Paper been to strong I hope me die by and by
happy. I been 42 years in Victoria and never been
Jail yet. When I die I hope my brother and sister
make a big funeral of me.
SAM CHING.
What comfort Samuel Cliing gets out of that sort
of thing joss only knows.
“ Belah ” : Mr. Favenc (B. 6/7/’O5) says
the aborigine has a certain amount of politeness,
with a clash of hospitality about him. Either he
or [ must have struck a new brand of nigger. I
had a long experience with the true Myall brand,
from Marble Bar to the Norseman, when the white
man up by Norseman was only a camp tire yarn ;
and I found him anything but a gentleman. Most
prospectors will agree with me when I say that
for treachery the gentle Westralian savage is the
most up-to-date in the world. If you can twist
horse killing, murder, and robbery into politeness,
he is full of it. There are no tufts of grass for the
stranger to sit upon in my Myall’s “ cosmos,” only
sudden death.
•* * * #
An Ararat (Vic.) man recently went down
a well on a rope to rescue a sheep that had fallen
in. On the bottom he found a snake. He placed
his foot on the reptile’s head, and sent the sheep
up. Then he sent the maimed snake up. Then
he came up himself. He was a cold, strongman —
as the Tory papers used to say of Irvine the Ice-
berg.
A BRILLIANT IDEA.
GROGAN (keeping time for a 10-round go): “Vie
losht count whether it's the sixth or seventh
round. Hadn't we betther sthop the foight
and sthart over agin ?”
“ Elmore ” : Only domesticated dogs bark,
but if a wild puppy is reared among domestic dogs
lie learns to bark, and a tame dog, taking to a wild
life, soon gets back to the yelp of his ancestors.
Now, is it natural for dogs to bark? Who in-
vented the bark ? Which dog barked first ? And
why ?
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in ; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Ariel: Absence of any name and address rouses
a dark suspicion that the verse is “cribbed.” Sun-
downer : “ Father’s Station ” bumps shamefully
Coromandel: “Violet or Two” trodden on....Wiki:
You “omitted to sign the contribution sent last Satur-
day.” And now that you send your name you omit to
tell what was the title of the contribution, so things are
no further forward... ,\V. Rathbun : Murray River is 1719
miles long. But if the great stream were reckoned from
the real head of the Darling (the actual source away up in
(Queensland) to the sea it would be over 3000 miles. The
original mistake was in reckoning the Upper Murray the
main stream and the Darling a tributary, instead of the
other way about A.H.S. :Do you think it worth
sending in an elongated ass of a paragraph to say that the
Herald tacked a wrong Christian name on to somebody
of small importance.... Carswell: “And ever and anon
he heaved a sigh.” Well, ever and anon we
heave a brick, and we hove one just then
William H.I. : Where did you cull those fearsome chest-
nuts? Oscar M. : Four lines abouta violet declined
Bunko (Kyabram): Terrible and belated verses Eve:
It wouldn’t be judicious to argue on that line ;
most of the evidence to be got must come from people
who were, in some degree at least, participants in the
criminality involved, and those people must be encouraged
to talk—not frightened. Tub Bulletin doesn’t join in
the shriek to gaol everyone who ever saw the Lands
Department, because it wants to see the whole truth
elicited W.A.K. : Some faint glimmers of inspir-
ation Louis: Hackneyed theme in halting verse
J.Macß. : Flat and unconvincing Pilgrim : “Moltke”
should have made a par. only Tramp: Too stiff and
prosy Woodki: Sorry not up to mark Croaker:
Too much straining after effect D.M'W. :No backbone
of interest in it S.S.B. : Pointless twaddle Beta:
Better, but still too slack of style. Cultivate terseness....
Curfryp : It probably wouldn’t pay the newspapers to try
that swindle. The paper used at present by the average
daily is just about as thin and poor as it can be ; if it were
any’ thinner the big words would drop through it
Squidge: Nothing new in sugar article W.P. Euston :
See no reason to encourage your efforts G. Gain :It
has enough promise to suggest that you should go on
trying The Battler: Both sets of verse too crude,
vet not without some merit M.T. (Brisbane): Can’t
guarantee to take a weekly letter, even from Sheol (where
there must be some interesting copy). If any copy sent
in is good ’twill be printed ; that’s all the pledge The
Bulletin can give Tangle: Much too long
A. Zander : Don’t know how that correspondent’s ancient
fisherman hauled in 12001 b. or 14001 b. of dugong single-
handed. Some of these ancient fishermen in “Aborigi-
nalities ” are very strong J. Patz : Have a mouldy
flavor ,/Eneas : “July” rather too slim Alone: It
seems to take a long time for things to soak into your in-
tellect. The Bulletin dropped all respect for Turner's
consistency a year ago. But as for the old previous
Turner—well, if you have even a smattering of financial
knowledge, you should know that he was a man who de-
served all the good things that were said of him Te
Whai : “ Choice ”• nearly good enough. Last verse weak.
Paul Cupid: The stock is large enough to last two
years or more. Will be in print shortly. “ Patriot
Premier” declined W. Mac. : (1) “ Baldy’s Wedding”
is lame doggerel. (2) Nothing would make the other two
pieces acceptable, (3) Any metre you like so long as the
stuff is poetry Caritas : You say that “no one dared
to say a word against him.” Don’t you know anything
of the man’s past record? 8.8.8. : Next week
E.V.R.M. : Rather ineffective.,. .W.P.B. : Humorous, but
spasmodic and purposeless W.J.H. : Capital idea, in-
adequately handled E.M.H.: Amusing enough, but
out of our line M.L.P. : Only about 9-carat M.O’D. :
A poor piece of work E.11.G. : Fairly strong, but
awkward and ill-finished Dido: Unnecessarily com-
plicated. With fewer characters you'd do better work...
Tim D.: Harsh and ungraceful S.T.: Lacks unity and
consistence Ti-Tree : Perilously akin to nonsense
L.L. : Unsuitable M‘D. : The points in that ’roo yarn
are ancient Gilli : Nothing in it but an ingenuous
enthusiasm about legs... .R.B.R. : Some power, but a
little too much audacity McM.: “Hermit,” touch
not light enough.... Moodier : The regulation two-men-
and-a-woman-yarn Mars: “Trinity” is the best, but
im’t quite good enough P.W.S. : A crude attempt
J.M.: “Corners,” too fantastic and formless N. :
“Three Cheers for Bent” is very carelessly thrown
together F. ((Queensland): And The Bulletin didn’t
tliTnk that you were the dirty-minded kind of person who
hunts for premeditated indecency in small accidents like
that. In other words, it took you for a man—not a hog.
M. Cardny : Write Mt. Barker Courier, S. Aus
C.O.W. : Thanks. Points, however, seem to have all been
taken. And the gentleman has probably been sufficiently
flattened L.A.F. : No, it's not inconsistent; but so few
papers have the courage to “ sass ’ a wealthy advertiser
that it may look so.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J.T. : That “unemployed” joke has been dished up in
various ways ever since the days of the Missing Link
Richard G. : Nearly got through on the strength of the
second cat, but the girl and the first cat spoiled it....
R.K. : The drunk who was “struck blind” is a tragic jest.
J.F. : “ Misconception ” sketch holds out very little
promise. Bristol board and Indian ink are the best....
John L. : “Cut Direct” based on poor pun J.M. :
“Rough sketch” received—very rough C.F.P. : All
four much below par H.W.T. : Grievous lack of pro-
portion between Deakin’s head and his legs Crowquill:
Hopelessly stiff, and principal figure looks sadder than if
he were dead Almac :We never saw a waiter of quite
that shape before. No name or address on back Of sketch.
M.J.W. : Declined. Only a picture-scrawl T. 8.8.:
Mistook your tramcar for a tombstone till we read the
legend below... ,'J.S. : “ Celluloid ” picture has no special
promise. Don’t advise you to spend time and money on
study N.H.S. :No ; but don't make the drawings too
large. A drawing as big as the State of Westralia, for
instance, would be unwelcome in this office, though it
has been recently enlarged.


SELLING THE CHILDREN.
“There are 30,000 unemployed in N.S.W. to-day.”— A politician hi N.S.W. Assembly last week.
"If we had not spent £9,500,000 of loan money, there wo Id have been a crisis.” —Another N.S. W. politician last week.
"There is necessity for action on the part of the Government to relieve the distress among the unemployed. lam favorable to the borrowing of £10,000,000.”— A
third N.S.W. politician last week.
The Auctioneer: “Gentlemen, there is great distress and want of employment owing to the fact that we import almost everything, and make
hardly anything, and, consequently, though there are millions of pounds worth of work to do to supply the State of New South Wales with
necessaries, this work goes to the foreigner, while our own people starve. Under these conditions, we hold our regular sale of children
earlier than usual this year. Terms as before. You give us some money to go on with, and we spend it. And we pledge ourselves that
the children, who will probably be worse off than we are, will grind out their lives in hopeless toil to pay the interest and principal. The
security is their bodies and souls, their lives, joys, hopes, and happiness, and the labor and sweat of their whole existence. Gentlemen,
how much is bid for the children?”


"tf/e Vic Rifle of beitfo jdr
Members to ~l€Jo'H to
rtjonepol lscd by S^oolin^
'for 'UfW*. Ae -
Gtorgl lorrjt.r
proWl* retiV e «»w*»*r
sfrom Politics
Vie H&y Kett\on 'tfjVf'" ' sf*S 'S . —,
oV
•enefv>yJ wbe« nee t'fiU'j.
,c^c
\s fT,m ‘ /s *'s
' p t o ro^ tVl firws it ety>
id
%
~wt"
h r £WT is liKe \o^zv-
brd wj? tt-ijsVf"
2csV>*y
in His ~
r K/djt
Cfcor«/s trjell/
life We rpyer/T
Kbour P^rr;:-" Mki CV>\T I JnSe
% u *jr.
— 0 jfour& no'T
3u||icicnfly protected!
'^J
/ ! tyv Qg>*iq r'erfevS
f y*!\¥f r? doubled dfe
C 6ro Socialism "7
' 3 m ?e.d J
A Bif-rGeorge a>w? I ilje only
one you've ever loved '
“ tfc ! '
'There W Wrr a
oV
IM fed House 7 $e
eight" tifonnrs
Tirpd lieniljcr*;
knottier ctanec of Govern
njenri Directly /pe*"fc. ,
dashed SeacT 'lr\rrri I Hev
ie, a«r *r '"
MOVED ON. 1 "
MOSTLY FEDERAL.


NO BETTER VALUE IN WATCHES
OFFERED BY ANY
OTHER HOUSE
IN AUSTRALIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin Chain
and Roller Charm,
7s 6d.
Metal Pin, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Slipper
and Mouse
Charm, 5s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart
Forget-Me-Not
Spray Charm,
A. SAUXDEHS.
Gold 2 Bar Pearl Set
Spray Brooch, 17s Gd.
A Pretty Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Wishbone
Links, 20s.
15et. Gold, 355.
Silver, ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Charm, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open Face Keyless
Watches, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255, 30s,
£2. Our “Nurses” Watch, 255.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Design Scroll
Brooch, Set Pearl and
and Rubies, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pearl and
Turquoise Set
Heart Charm,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Chased
Oval and Bar
Links, 20s.
15et. Gold. 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted N.Z.
Greenstone Battleaxe
Pendants, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm
Set Pearls and
Ruby or Sapphire,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin, Chain,
and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d.
Larger, 7s 6d.
t!i»
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Double Cut Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire
Bracelet, £3.
15ct. Gold, £4 10s.
Fitted with Extra Strong Safety Chain.
SHOPPING
BY POST,
We ensure
you
just as
much
satisfaction, as
if you
shopped
personally.
Everything is
exactly as
represented.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Crescent and Moon Brooch,
Fine Pure Double Cut Diamonds, £6O.
Sapphires and Diamonds, £35.
In Silk-Lined Leather Case.
THE
LATEST
designs are
illustrated in
our Catalogue.
Over 15000
illustrations.
Write tor it
now.
We send it
Post Free
to any
address ..
A. SAUNDERS.
Very Choice Gold Bracelet, Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3 15s.
15ct. Gold, 5 Pure Double Cut Diamonds, £7 10s.
UL7
£3
£3
£4 : 4 ;0.
£4:4: 0.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-Hunting Keyless
Extra Heavy Oases, High Grade J-Plate
Fully Jewelled. No. 1, £4 4s; No. :
No. 3,18 ct. Gold, £C 6s. Guaranteed 3,4,
Watches,
Movement,
2, £5 ss;
and 5 Yrs.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made Wedding
Rings, 9et. Gold,
7s 6d, 10s 6a,
15ct. Gold, 15s, 255;
18et. Gold, 20s, 30s,
40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made Keepers,
Oct. Solid Gold, 7s 6d,
10s, 12s (id;
15ct. Gold, 17s 6d, 20s;
18ct. Gold, 22s 6d, 30s,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 6 Pure White
Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphires, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Claw Set
Pure Double Cut
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby, £2O.
U GUARD,”
15/-
“KAILWAY”
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
"Railway” Watch, f-Plate, with Jewels, Latest Model,
Keyless Duplex, Extra Strong, Dust and Water
Tight Screw Cases, 20s. “The Guard,” a similar
Watch, 15s. We repair for 2 and 1 year Free.
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird, Pearl Set Spray,
and Greenstone Heart, Bar Brooch, 12s 6d.
3
A SAUNDERS.
16ct. Gold Crescent and Spray Pearl Set
A Neat Design.
Brooch, £5 10s., Larger Size, £7 10»
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Key Ivy Leaf Scroll Brooch,
Set Pure Diamonds, 20s.
loct. Gold, £2.
/
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 5 Diamond,
Half-Hoop Ring, £5.
NOTE!
' IN REMITTING
MAKE YOUR POSTAL NOTES,
POST OFFICE ORDERS,
AND CHEQUES.
PAYABLE TO
A. SAUNDERS ONLY.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2 Bar Pearl Set Buckle
Brooch, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Claw Set
3 Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £l2 10s.
WRITTEN
GUARANTEE
OF FREE REPAIR
FOR THREE YEARS
given with
l EACH WATCH.
/
\
s
W
reduced
PRICE.
USUAL
PRICE,
£4:4:0
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Bamboo
and Heart
Charm, 3s Od.
A S \ UNDER S.
18ct. Gold Scroll Brooch, Set 5 Rubies and
Pure Double Cut Diamonds, £8 10s.
SPECIAL REDUCTIONS
IN PURE SOLID SILVER, HUNTING, KEYWIND '
in IURE GUSH LEVER WAT ches. f
REDUCED PRICE, £2 15s. USUAL PRICE, £4 -S.
They are specially made English Levers, full
covered cap, chronometer balance, extia
jewelled, aeywind, double cases, dust proof,
3 perfectly regulated and adjusted.
Scientifically constructed to
stand rough riding and
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Horse Shoe
Motto
Charm, 5s 6d.
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds, Ruby,
or Sapphires and Pearl Set
Scroll Brooch, £8 10s.
A SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Iloart and
Dumbbell Links,
12s 6d, 20s;
15ct. Gold, 355.
Hsl).
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Pearl Set
Pendant or Brooch,
£3 10s.
Nickel,
20s.
A SAUN DJiltS,
Non-Magnetic, Strong, Reliable. Knockabout
Watches. Our “Unrivalled” Dust and
Waterproof Oases, 20s. London Lever, 255.
Extra Jewelled, 30s. Cheaper Lines, 10s,
12s 6d, 15s. All Guaranteed.
Silver,
30s.
A SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Oval Links,
17s 6d, 20s, 255.
loot. Gold, £2, £2 ss, £2 10s.
Initials, Is extra.
A SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Set
Pure White
Pearls, £5.
Smaller Size, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ High Grade Keyless Watches
Hunting Cases, Beautifully Chased,
Extra Quality, £2, £2 10s, £3.
2, 3. and 4 Years.
, Solid Silvei
255, 30s, £2.
Guaranteed foi
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, 3 Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£3.
Diamonds and 2 Rubies,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Diamond
and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ut. Gold, Pure
Double Gut Diamonds
and Fine White
Pearl,
£2O, £25, £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
JBct. Gold Floral Ring
Set 4 Pure Double Out
Diamonds and
Pearl
or Turquoise, £5
Solid
Silver,
£2 : 10:0
Gold
Cased,
£4:4:0
A SAUNDERS.
Waltham Watches, Solid Silver Hunting Cases, Extra
Quality Movement, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £0 Os. Solid Gold,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25. Guaran-
teed for 3,4, 5, and 6 Years.
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Charm and Pearl Set Spray
Brooch, 255. 15ct. Gold, 355.
A SAUNDERS.
Gold 3-Bur Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire Set Scroll Brooch, 21s,
A. SAUNDERS.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, & OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-ST,
Opposite
Railway
Station.


in
!' '-v; t
ssspimi
ms
m
W • MP
>a €1
*T~
MBagii
* r* *’
«; "f'\;V : f. ' ylt^l
-
«§
mm
mm®
**■ •“ ; w ' .
sn@
pa
E 3«
isii
MBSSe*
“:? ■ s;a-
-■
:
’ .
.. . isSl
is
M
mm
>v-sf, if-***
■:.>'. ■■■ : '
V-. %•-».'
sa * mmm
t
Dr- Morse's
A GREAT FEMALE MEDICINE
Females who value health should never be without these Pills. It has been admitted by physicians that
women cannot too highly value them. They have given health and spirits to hundreds, who, without them,
would have been in their graves. They purify the blood, remove obstructions, and give the skin a beautiful,
clear, healthy, and interesting appearance. A bottle of these Pills is a great medical companion at certain
periods. Prom one to three should be taken every day until relief is obtained. Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot
Pills are a permanent and positive cure for Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation, Headaches, Sallow Com-
plexion, Liver and Kidney Troubles, Piles, Pimples, Boils and Blotches, and for Female Ailments.


Furniture Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . • Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
J In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
DAVID STOKER & SONS'
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is THE ONLY Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking
OR
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Urgent to school two urchins sent
The truant played and fishing went;
One caught it hot, his pants were thin,
One caught a cold, for he fell in ;
The cold grew worse and caused alarm,
Till some kind neighbours brought a charm ;
A charm it proved that did endure,
They called it Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
When Mr. Webster’s vote was wanted at
last week’s division the enterprising Labor member
was having a shave and bath. It is encouraging to
hear of the rush of members great and small to
Daly’s Turkish Baths in the Royal Arcade,
Melbourne. Their’s is only the sort of damp
policy which should lean to a clean, if not a whole,
political skin. The Turkish bath party should be
the party of clean politics.*
GrO TO HELXx-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real good stamps, send to
FREP. HACEN,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Never put off till to-morrow the people
you can do to-day.— Motto of the “ Practical Poli-
tician
“I even heard the wreck of the Orizaba
ascribed to the Labor party.”— Ex-Agent-General
Grainger, ofS.A.
It is all different now. One Australian
State has been driven to issue a departmental
decree that service in S’Africa will be a bar to
admission into the police force.
Senator Simian Phraser on the Address-in-
Iteply : "Last week the Age —the Age— the Age
had an article showing that Socialism was a
failure.” Senator Pearce : “ And it’s not so long
gince the Age had an article showing that you
were a failure ! ”
The German has off-hand ways of dealing
with the yellow intruder. Twenty-six Chinese
stowaways were found some time ago on a German
mailboat coming in to Sydney, and were ordered
to be sent back. But the German captain did not
carry them back. Instead, by way of a, broad
hint to other Chinamen not to take liberties
with Kaiser Bill’s mailboat, the 26 were dumped
ashore on New Britain, to work out the cost of
their passages by 12 months hard labor on German
plantations.
POLITICAL ATMOSPHERE.
The cold, bleak atmosphere of Opposition—GEORGE RXID, J[?] go.
THE BOY : “A very nasty change , George .”
Vic. Leader-of-the-Opposition Prendergast
gays “an Adulteration of Foods Act would be
almost as good as a Protectionist tariff.” In a
sense true, since “ imported ” generally seems to
mean “shoddy” or “adulterated.’ But the
country wants both the tariff and the Adultera-
tion Act.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers, when asked
lately for some railway passes by a Friendly
Societies deputation, said he has information re
the public hunger for railway passes that would
stagger the public. The shortest road to reform
would be for Joseph to stagger the public at once.
The public has a right to be staggered by all avail-
able facts about its own railways.
As a wholesome counterblast to the cries
of the Stinking Fish party, Queensland Premier
Morgan’s cable to London, “ The era of borrowing
has ceased,” is good reading. The Northern
voters should see to it that Morgan and succeed-
ing State Premiers nail that statement on the
local Treasury door, and make it the top line of
their manifesto every session.
N.S.W. got a surprise last week when the
firm which sent in the approved design for the
Sydney-North Shore bridge requested to be paid
for its work in preparing same. The bill runs to
some thousands. Assuming that the amount
demanded is fair and just, the firm has a good
case. An unsuccessful competitor takes his
chance; but when the successful competitor is
thrown out because the State changed its mind,
like the lightsome ape, and went frisking away
into another tree in search of another nut, and
didn’t want any bridge after all, he has a right to
complain.
The Victorian Labor party makes the
abolition of the State’s disgraceful House of Land-
lords a conspicuous plank in its platform. And it
would be a mighty poor platform that wouldn’t
command respect with that plank in it. A fixed
opinion in favor of abolishing the House of Land-
lords would i.lmost make Judas Iscariot respect-
able.
Maoriland Government has weakly revoked
its recent] y-issued patent medicine regulations
requiring a lodging of the formula of any adver-
tised nostrum with the Government, so that it
could be seen if it were noxious. The trade
threatened to withdraw all local advertisements,
and cease exporting to M.L. The threat seems to
have had effect, and the Government backs down
completely.
“ Pukaki ” : Some three years ago, when
Maoriland “Imperialism” was at its height, a
company was formed called “John Bull and Sons
Ltd.,” for the purpose of fostering preferential
trade. A few weeks ago, the Government
Gazette announced that, as the co. was no longer
carrying on business, the Registrar was going to
strike it off the roll.
The new Deakin Ministry (Deakin, Isaacs,
Lyne, Forrest, Chapman, Playford, Groom, Ewing
and Keating) differs from the previous one in the
substitution of the last-named three for Turner,
Drake and the bearded Fysh. It contains three
N.S.W. men, two Victorians, one South Aus-
tralian, one Westralian, one Queenslander, and
an honorary or unpaid Tasmanian. Some frantic
joke sends Forrest to the Treasury; and some
streak of ill-luck leaves out that good Protectionist
Manger, of Victoria, who would be worth Bigjohn
and his title and his waistcoat three times over.
The heavy Sydney dailies denounced the
defeat of Half-Premier Reid as a piece of Vic-
torian intrigue aimed at N.S.W. and fostered by
jealousy of the Mother State (“ Mother State is
generally supposed to clinch an argument sqch as
this). Yet when Deakin’s Ministry was announced
it was found that three of the team are from
N.S.W., while only two are Victorians. Reid
himself had three Victorians in his Cabinet—he was
the only Federal Premier who thus swamped the
Ministry with Victorians.
Con. Clark, son of Justice Clark, of Tas-
mania, now completing his architectural education
in Boston, U.S.A., sends some interesting
Murkan impressions to Hobart Clipper. One
extract: —
Chinatown (Frisco) interested me very much ; 70,000
Chinamen herded up into about eight or ten blocks.
Went all through the place, both at night and day. Saw
some of the most disgusting sights it is possible to imagine.
For heaven's sake keep Australia free from a curse like
this. I wished I could bring some Tasmanians I know to
’Frisco and show them Chinatown. I think that would
settle them on the White Australia question.
Speaking at Masterbon (M.L.),
Premier Seddon gave a nasty knock
to liis critics. For some time past the
Tory Opposition has been scattering its
wool about the country and uttering
strange curses, chiefly to the effect
that Seddon has used the public works
policy of the State as a bribe to certain
constituencies. Seddon replied that
the policy of the Farmers’ Union is
simply an enormous Opposition bribe
to the most mentally barren class in
the country. The Tory leader, Massey,
is willing to give away the State s in-
terest in the public lands as _an in-
ducement to farmers to get him into
power. In fact, the Tory party’s pro-
mise that if it gets into power it will
give the Crown tenants the freehold of
their lands is about the most gigantic
and the most blushless corruption on
record. The only reason why it doesn’t
get the Tory leaders bodily into gaol
is that they don’t propose to pay the
bribe themselves —not being honest
enough; they propose to make the
country pay it.
Deakin’s Ballarat constituency
has, on the whole, a pretty solid Con-
servative look about it, and shudders
when you mention Socialism; but
still it knows better than most places
what sort of a thief Private “Enter-
prise” can be. It owns several co.’s
which have paid more in mining
royalties to ignorant and lazy landlords
than in divs. to shareholders, and it
sees big areas idle because Private “ Enterprise ”
won’t work them and won’t let anybody else do it
on reasonable terms. Only the other day the
New Normanby Co. issued its half-yearly balance
sheet, showing a debit of £755. But, for all that,
it had paid £562 royalty to the landlord.
The Bulletin has received an interesting
letter, signed “ Exhausted,” which says :
With regard to the Anglo-Japanese treaty and the prob-
lems which might arise, it may be stated that Henry
George has completely solved every political and financial
problem, including this Japanese question.
To which it is only possible to reply that, after
George had done all that, he must have felt tired.
Massey, leader of M.L. Opposition, says
the Government has had nothing to do with
Maoriland’s prosperity ; estates would have been
cut up, and all that, even if the State hadn’t inter-
fered. Well, the State waited for the fire insur-
ance offices to reduce premiums for 12 years, and
they didn’t do it. But when the State put its
nose into the business, they did it within 48
hours.
Treasurer Kidston (Q.) is not much con-
cerned about the proposal of Joseph Platitude
Carruthers for an understanding between the
States that future Treasury Bills shall he limited
to a certain rate of interest. “Queensland has
.become virtuous and lately retired to a convent,”
said Kidston. When a State isn’t borrowing it
doesn’t need to write to Joe Platitude about the
interest rate.
THE RETURNING BRAVE.
The Tory Press is wild with admiration about Reid’s heroic conduct in leaving the Treasury benches without
troubling Australia to send for a policeman.
A RGUS: “ Brave 'cro I Noble ’ero !”
REID : “ For Heaven's sake get in and don’t make a fool of yourself and, me too.”
Report of N.S. W. Public Service Board on
the Labor Bureau saves Schey’s billet as Labor
Commissioner. Schey, a defeated politician, was
given a job as Commissioner at about £5OO a year.
It was generally supposed that the Carruthers
Government would dispense with him, on the
ground of economy, but the Board has contented
itself with annihilating his colleagues and throw-
ing the whole job on to Schey at £4OO.
Premier Evans, of Tasmania, complains
with justifiable bitterness about Federation. In the
six years before union came about the Tas. tariff, he
says, averaged £25 6s. lOd. per cent, on all goods
imported, and the lingering island pulled through
in an ineffective sort of way. The customs reve-
nue is now only £l3 Bs. lOd. per cent, on imports,
and the grievous loss of revenue makes Tasmania
feel very dead. But if the lingering island had
sent a solid phalanx of High Protectionists to the
Australian Parliament it wouldn’t feel half so
dead. Curiously enough, Evans, after doing this
bitter weep because. Tasmania has lost its old
Protection, says he Jfs a Freetrader. Presumably
he does that from force of habit.
Sydney Telegraph reports that
A financier who has for many years taken a prominent
part in securing English capital for the development of
colonial mining and other industrial undertakings
declares that it is almost impossible for Australia
to get further into debt by selling its mines and
industries to outside Ccipitalists (the Telegraph
calls it the investment of capital to develop the
great natural resources of the country,” or some-
thing like that) on account of Socialistic legisla-
tion. But why use 25 words to describe the man,
and then leave him a mere hazy myth after all.
when his name and address could be given in 10
or 12 words ? Are the police after all these re-
markable capitalists and financiers that they dare
not give their names ? And have they no ad-
dresses ? Are they all sleeping in the parks ?
Premier Daglish met Westralian Parlia-
ment with a surprise announcement that, subject
to ratification, he had fixed up with the Midland
Railway Co. to buy that octopus out for £1,500.000.
The wires had been pulled hard just before dune
30, which was alleged to be the last day on which
the octopus would look at such a paltry figure.
The State would, no doubt, have been obliged to
buy the 277 miles of rail some time or other ; but
as to the 2,350,000 acres of land, it was a different
matter altogether. The State’s business isn tto
borrow money to buy up land—not, anyhow, till it
has tried to produce the desired result of getting the
land occupied without borrowing anything. Ihe
State that goes into debt to put people on the
land when it might put the same people on the
same land bv a process (i.e., a heavy graduated
land-tax), which would help to wipe off some of
the existing debt, is a champion fool-State.
For many a day nothing more pathetic has
been seen than the display made by Melbourne
Argus in connection with the defeat of Keid.
The poor old lady had been kept quite m the
dark, and it was only the exultant scream of the
Age, on the Monday following Deakin’s Ballarat
speech, that aroused her to the awfulness of the
situation. Then, for five solid days, she let herself
loose and waved her brolly at large, and incited
numberless correspondents, who signed themselves
“Disgusted,” “Honesty,” “Citizen,” and the
like, to do the same. The Argus had been
preaching for months that the only issue before
Australia just now was anti-Socialism. Also, the
fiscal issue had been sunk five miles deep. I lie
anti-Socialism crusade was never much more than
a skeleton, and it is as dead now as Pharaoh’s war-
horse. But until the carcase was thrown so rudely
into its backyard the Argus hadn’t heard that its
friend was no more.
Sydney is being bombarded with anti-
opium petitions. The proposal is to fine the
smoker £lO. But as fines of £lOO don’t stop
opium smuggling, the proposed new law will pro-
bably fail. There is only one effective way—
exclusion of the opium smoker ; and the Chinese
themselves give plenty of reason for it in the
moving tales some of them tell of the degradation
of white girls. And up North the degradation of
the aborigines is worse.
Among the powers to be exercised by the
N.S.W. Lands Commissioner should be the right
to inspect, where he deems it necessary, books in
possession of the banks. In the revolt against
dummyism which set the law in motion a quarter
of a century ago, bank managers were obliged,
under pain of contempt, to produce a record of
the bank transactions of any client named. In
some of the matters before the present Commis-
sion the bankers’ books yield more light than any
other literature. For instance, there is not much
information in the office books of the person who
makes it a rule to take his payments in cash, and
never give receipts.
MR. STOUSHER.
Mr. Crick, Mr. Norton, Mr. Holman, &c., object to the
election of Mr. Wood as N.S.W. Chairman of Committees,
on the ground that he is not the sort of man to exercise
a calm firm control of the House.
Why not put something like this in the Chair
and call it Mr. Stousher, to distinguish it from
Mr. Speaker ?
The Deakin Government puts Federal old-
age pensions on its programme, which is an idea
that should command the support of every good
Australian democrat. And, by way of getting the
money to pay these pensions, it can t find a much
brighter idea than a Federal graduated land-tax-
one which will begin by striking the great estates
with Id. in the £ tax on their capital value by
way of warning, and increase every year, till in six
years it strikes them with a permanent impost of
6d. in the £. There would be six great years in
Australian history—the years of cutting up, pf
selling out, of violent advertisement by the big
landlords for immigrants, and of a general settling
of the people on the land at red-hot speed.
AFTER TWO CENTURIES!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King William was a Dutchman,
Same as Kruger, I suppose ;
He was married to a Papist,
And he had a Roman nose !
But a yearly jubilation
Crowds of simple people join,
’Cause this Dutchman beat a Scotchman
In a skirmish on the Boyne !
And we ought to keep its memory green (or yellow) should
we not—
This tinpot Irish riot ’twixt a Dutchman and a Scot!
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


PALING’S
The Largest House
in Australasia
PIANOS
ORGANS
ii
WHO
And all Musical Instruments.
ESTABLISH CD OVER HALF A CENTURY.
CATALOGUES
AND FULL
PARTICULARS
OF PRICES
POST FREE.
Paling's give better value for your money in Pianos, Organs or
any Musical Instrument than any other bouse. We are en-
abled to give tbis better value because tbe very large business
we do enables us to place standing orders witb tbe manufac-
turers,and thereby secures for us very substantial discounts.
W. H. PALING <& CO., Ltd.,
338 George Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
VITADATIO
Again Victorious.
Read this PF*
Eoyal Sailors’ Rest, Portsmouth.
10th March, 1904.
Dear Sir,—l gladly bear my testimony to the efficiency
of the great Australian remedy, Vitadatio. I have proved
it personally as a wonderful cure for rheumatism and
lumbago, and I have also known it to cure kidney trouble
and very acute rheumatism in various forms. It is
doubtless, as stated, an invaluable blood purifier, and
requires only to be known to be widely used.
Believe me, yours very truly,
AGNES E. WESTON, LL.D.
The Australian public will, no doubt, read with interest
the above testimonial from Miss Weston. Miss Weston’s
name is well-known all over the world as “The Sailors’
Friend,” for the great interest which she takes in the
British navy and seafaring men. When such testimony
as the above is given, who can doubt the genuineness of
Vitadatio ?
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
Head Office: 430 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 6/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Oonnell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
▲ll Ohemists and Storekeepers.
RAN SOM
Of STOPPING
v-
Per Bottle
ALL CHEMISTS
& STORES
DECAYED
Gives
Instant" relief
frompain
! killslfie nerVe
Fill§ up tfie
Ca\?ity and
tfve ieettT are
again useful.
Toolfiache Cured
Post free from the Sole Proprietors,
Australian Drug C°L ,? , Sydney.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
VVe make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, s " 6lo Srr“"‘
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne
Judge Heydon is a fortunate man among
N.S.W. District Court Judges. By accepting
the Presidency of the Arbitration Court his salary
jumps from £l5OO to £2600. And yet, had the
appointment been open to a lower court Judge
when the Court was first established, Mr. Heydon
wouldn’t have had a hope. Only Judges Murray
and Backhouse were in the running then—the
former for his mathematical mind; the latter
because he had been the Commissioner who
inquired into the Maoriland law. It was on h : s
report that the N.S.W. Act was, to a great extent,
built up.
Sydney Licensing Bench has refused
a license to the “Old Fig Tree Inn” at North
Shore, so another historic landmark will probably
soon give way to the jerry builder. When origi-
nally built (by convict labor), in the forties, the
Fig Tree was surrounded by virgin bush. Blue’s
Point Road, which ran past the door, was the
main trunk road to the Hawkesbury district, and
the old place was the centre of many old-time
associations. ■ . i
The advent of a squad of Jap Salvationists
in Australia is a matter worth some massive
thinking. Is the preacher-Monkey a spy, or is he
really torn with a yearning to save the soul of
Australia? Also, how did Booth’s Monkey get
into the Commonwealth ? On the usual “ tourist ”
or exemption certificates ? It is noticed that the
little brown person seems anxious to save
souls principally in the cities on the coast, where
information about the handiest means of landing
may be picked up, but that may be solely out of
his love for marine scenery, and his desire to
Occasionally wet his tail in the wide astounding
sea.
The announcement of Premier Seddon
that he proposed increasing the Maoriland
old age pension trifle to 10s. per week, in-
duced that despairing Tory, Opposition Leader
Massey, to go one better, and propose 12s. 6d. a
week ; also, that the pension should be universal
—everyone in the State over the age of 65 years to
be entitled to it. This would, of course, place the
system on a more solid footing, and applicants
wouldn’t have to plead poverty to secui’e the dole,
but the spectacle of Fatman and his missus lining up
for their lot would be humorsome. Massey doesn’t
say where the money is to come from to meet his
scheme, but that is neither here nor there nor
anywhere else, when a desperate Conservative is
out after votes.
Yic. Premier Bent will be a good Socialist
yet. Last week a number of residents of Yarram
deputationised him, to ask that they might be
permitted to retain the water frontages to their
farms, on the ground that they had been illegally
using them for years, and had made improve-
ments, believing that the State would
acting the fool to the end of its days. Bent’s
methods are not always suave and courteous, and
this was one of the occasions when he was justified
in being true to himself. He told the deputation,
in effect, that it could be tanked, and drove it
headlong out into the corridor, .with many
“ bloomings,” to meditate over the injustice of
the system which would not allow a man to keep
what he collared.
The Smart Girl says the D.C.L. Degree is all right. But D.C.L. Whisky,
is far better for the man who wants a clear brain and a sound heart.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
>—Tlllfi—*
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offiees • > 105 Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident. Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461—assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -enuitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE*
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
jjational gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 1563.
Bankers to the Government oi Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. : John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. Y. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J 111 HI I T !<:/>. u
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS. 175.812
RESERVE FUND(lnvested in Government Stock) 64.00 C
£097,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Emvn. R. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. li. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCH'JRCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throw/hont the. World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Banding's, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.). 1903
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders
Total Capital „
1,000.000
500. CO*'
500,000
£2,000,000
Tiie Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, I'hilp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... *1700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.000 ... £350,000
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Oflico-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. ..
Reserve Fund ...
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ►.
2,000,000 0 0
1,400,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total ... ... .. 6,400,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnib. Esg.
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
r cO«SS*H
C OLD§
4
Shipping.
3NT. 13. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. sth AUGUST.
*PRINZ WALDEMAB, 3300 tons.. 2nd SEPTEMBER.
*FRINZ SiGISMUND, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIJIANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
11l Try It.
»
The Only Certain
Moustache Produetr.
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
iasia or New Zealand.
Price, ICs. Gel.
SOI.K AQKNIS.
„
The Result.
■
CRAIG &, AiT K E . N. S. \V. Barber’s Supplj
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, S'/OJitf.
TN€ AB€RP€€H LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
DAMASCUS
MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
R. McKilliam
T. F. Spalding
N. Allan ..
Noon, July 29
Noon, Aug. 19
Norm, Sept. 9
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £52 ..£l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the I ugliest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUEYIC to follow.
FAKES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
<3‘ E 3 -A. KTIC S.S. 00. A.. SL.xa.cl .A.. LIIST 3E2,
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, JULY 31.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THKOU3H FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PiilLP and CO., Ltd., ftanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT'AND HIM I >Ol5 STREETS; SYDNEY.
THROUGH
. . it
PICTURESQUE
—' v 7"-;: ISLANDS .
To Singapore, via the Dutch East Indies ! The sister ships
Airlie and Guthrie (2338 tons) leave Sydney alternately every
month on regular cruises through these tropical seas. These
steamers are fitted with the latest electrical and cold storage
conveniences, thus ensuring tourists the utmost comfort
throughout the tour. The round trip occupies 52 days, and
costs £4O. For full information of the above, or shorter trips,
call or write to—
BURNS, PHILP & COLTDSYDNEY
Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Glasses - of
Security.—
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS,
WE
&
$
❖
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
TW-S.'W.
ffloßt de peteflJil.Co.^td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Xitd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Direstors—Sydney : lion. A. IV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jkssoi’, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Ci.ynk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. IlAMii/rON Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BOItItOVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager
A POLICY FOB THE COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d
Rothwelfs
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonlo
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Oase, £1 is. [B.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
SAILS
AUG. 7.
A FAVORITE STEAMER ON THE PACIFIC.
PORTS OF CALL—
Brisbane Lancala Bay, Fiji
Suva, Fiji—Fanning Island—Hono-
lulu and Victoria, B.C.
Connects at I /uncover with
Canadian Pacific Railway.
AORANGI
Excursion to Canada, costing <£GO, includes all
Expenses on Steamer, Kail, and at Nine of
the Finest Hotels in America.
The Beautiful Isles of the Pacific and the Finest Land
Scenery in the World are on this route.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
Next Sailings—
SEPT. 4, OCT. 2, OCT. 30.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passengei Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character—
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNow York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Estabmsiikd 1879.)
Hkad Office— HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to atvl from
West Australian, South Australian*
Viotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOII MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo, Friday, July 11
S.S. Gran tala (from Mel-
. bourne), July 19.
S.S. Kanowna, Wednesday,
August 2.
BRISBANE, 'l
MAC KAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Wollowra, July 15.
S.S. Allinga, Friday, July 21
Jtest mill Cheapest Iloute to Ooltl,fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. VUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries JVlari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MKLBOUBNK, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO. BOMBAY,SUEE, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows : •
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, lnaia, Onma
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in land in i; and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them t,o Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company
Queen's Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
JR. BRASIER I>E XIIUY, Principal Agent
M A NILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TIIK . .
“E. AND ft.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVE.tr GO A V ENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
filled with Electric Fans.
Through hookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the E.S. America.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN' and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
| decorated, remodelled and re-furnished u
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be p
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date £]
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Break-fasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable,
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
Con*
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtorv and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
ST. KILDA.
r FHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
x the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
4, e '»«r
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
U/IMPOLE-S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. * Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVI-OTARIFP for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas perWVeek.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writer*. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


n>
(/>
3
n
ct>
PROTECT THE HOME ——.
with a Profit-sharing Life Assurance Policy
Issued by the ...
CITIZENS’
INVESTED FUNDS EXCEED £1,400,000.
nnNPV TO I PNO 011 security of Freehold, City, or Suburban Properties, good DAIRY FARMS, AGRICULTURAL and
liviycr grazing LANDS (Freehold or C.P. and C.L.) or Lowest Current Pates of Interest
Government or Municipal Stock of any of the Australian States or New Zealand at ° LcrcSL.
Loans arranged for a fixed term, and made payable by instalment, without notice or payment of any fine.
Pfinci^ ffi . cgs Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Wellington (N.Z.)


The Little Amber Bottle
in which Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
Packed. The Family Medicine op Thousands.
There is no more familiar bottle than. the little
amber one, the contents of which minister alike
to the rich and to the
poor. It is to be found
everywhere, and where
it goes once it stays.
Thousands of people
are using Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills, and
their ever increasing
sales bear testimony to
their merit and popu-
larity. They are the
ideal family medicine.
They keep the system
in proper woirking order,
cleanse the blood, and
aid in the digestion and
assimilation of food.
The marvellous cleans-
ing and healing proper-
ties of these pills are no
new thing. Thousands
of people are using
them, and those who
have never tried them
will find neighbours,
friends and relatives
echoing and re-echoing
their praise. They are
the household remedy of millions, and their ever-
increasing sale bears testimony to their merit and
popularity. They are a purely vegetable remedy,
carefully and skilfully compounded solely by the
proprietors, and are never manufactured except
under their direct supervision. A dose or two of
these pills taken once or twice a week regulate the
system perfectly. They are a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, sick headaches, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for femala
ailments.*
DIRECTIONS
ADULTS TWO TO FOUR PILLS
CHILDREN A HALF TO A
WHOLE PILL DISSOLVED
IN SWEETENED WATER.
To oefsken before.
rearing.
mi m
mmi
MM
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LA6E
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Bkkweky and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS-
A Melbourne boy, who got the idea from
Hackenschmidt, has patented a “ Modern Muscle Maker ”
for the use of commonplace people as well as athletes.
The “Muscle Maker” is mainly a Fing-er Grip, as com-
pared with the grip dumb-bell, and its resisting force is
supplied by ordinary indiarubber bands. Two brass rods,
about five inches long, are attached at either end to two
parallel steel wires running at right angles to the rods,
the rubber bands being slipped across the hooked ends of
these wires. The operator, holding the contrivance as one
holds a Sandow dumb-bell, or resting it upon a flat sur-
face, tightens and relaxes his grip until his fingers are
weary. As a corrective to writer’s cramp and an easy
exercise for weak hands and wrists, the Muscle Maker
supplies a want. With one rubber band (on either side)
in action, the cross-bars can be squeezed together by a
child ; the resistance of two rubber bands will keep the
fingers of an average bank clerk in active employment ;
a third band makes the grip a matter of considerable mus-
cular exertion.
* * ♦ *
Exit Hurtle Fisher over the last hurdle. What
an amazing place was his Maribyrnong of 40 years ago.
This stud farm was on a loop of the Saltwater River,
somewhat beyond the spot where Wedge and party pene-
trated to, shortly before Melbourne was founded. Hurtle
planned vast racing stables. Quite a palatial brick one
was erected, and remains. The bluestone foundations
laid for extensions also remain, but as foundations only.
They are of incredible extent. Fisher had indeed what
the French term the folie de grandeur. Yet James White
accomplished a good deal of what Fisher planned. His im-
portation of Fisherman, for 3000g5., was the nucleus of the
projected big things. C. B. Fisher did better with the estate
in cultivation of the Clydesdale, shorthorn and merino.
Hurtle Fisher’s biggest sensation was his wreck in the
Admella, with the horse Barber, which he fetched from
Adelaide, for the first Champion Race, the year of the
Flying Buck hunt. It is said that Fisher was without food
for a week. Anyhow he went nigh starvation, on the
Admella, being also pickled in brine while clinging on to
rigging, until hardly anything clung to him, and he was a
veritable Dougal Cratur when rescued, for rags and dirt.
The Barber had no hardships. He simply plunged into
the surf and swam ashore, where he was found in cipver.
On the strength of his luck many backed Barber to win
the Champion, but he didn’t. Old Fisherman’s grave
used to be shown at Maribyrnong.
* * * *
Famous Australian champion Carbine will see
his 20th year this month. English sporting papers tell
that the ancient wonder is breaking up fast.
* • * *
The 20th anniversary of Carbine’s birthday re-
calls the fact that, at one time, his name stood in
Australia with certain classes as a synonym for abso-
lute perfection. Writer visited a hospital ward at
Little Bay (Sydney), and found the whole of the
inmates discussing theology generally and the character
and personality of The Redeemer particularly. They
sat round an American stove, smoking, and man
after man delivered his panegyric till it came to
Murphy’s turn to speak. Murphy removed the pipe from
his mouth, and gazed round the ring with eyes that were
rapidly fading into blindness with unaccustomed tears.
He choked, cleared his throat, and then spluttered:
“ Boys* it breaks me up to talk about Him ; but He was a
regular blanky Carbine.” And poor Murphy didn’t mean
to be blasphemous, either.
» m • *
“ San Remo” : You said in The Bulletin some
weeks ago that ping-pong was dead. Dead ! It’s buried,
decayed, wiped off the globe, and there ain’t no tomb-
stone to mark its grave. Last year we Queenslanders
sent an inter-State team to Sydney to ping-pong feder-
ally, and tighten the bonds of Australian nationhood by
dabbing the blown egg across the table. This season
shops are jobbing 17s. (id. ping-pong sets for Is. lid., and
just begging the public to take ’em away.
On Saturday night Sydney Rugbyites found
themselves, like the Dauphin in Shakspeare’s “ King
John,” looking for a pattern for their shame. For the
Maoriland team, which landed in Sydney on Friday
afternoon and drank champagne on Saturday morning,
romped over the N.S.W. team by 19 points to nil on
Saturday afternoon. Last week all N.S. W. Rugby circles
were in a blaze of indignation at this contemptuous
treatment; on Saturday evening they poured the beer of
misery on the blaze and dropped the subject. The defeat
ranks as disgraceful. There was 22cwt. 81b. of Cornstalk
brawn, muscle and other things, and against it Maoriland
hurled 23ewt. lqr. lllb. of hardened meat, and broke it
right up. At the start of the game N.S.W. attacked
vigorously, and people began to form expectations and
take the odds the bookmakers (who had gone on strike at
Rosehill race meeting) were offering on Maoriland. But
soon the Cornstalks began to look like men who were
utterly without confidence, and their front and back
divisions were complete strangers, acting as though they
had never even been introduced. The Maorilanders had
evidently not practised together, but they had been
trained on a system, and, individually, were experts
against novices. This writer is firmly of opinion that
either the South Sydney, Glebe or University club teams
would have made a better stand for N.S.W. than the
disjointed crowd that got trodden on so thoroughly on
Saturday.
* • * *
The Bulletin doesn’t know where referee
Howe learned his Rugby, but his lack of control on
Saturday would suggest that he bought his degree at a
U.S.A. brummy University. The Maorilanders, although
winning hands'down and never threatened, “ pointed ” in
a most glaring manner. Cornstalks were held after they
had taken their kick, to prevent them getting on-side
again ; men were thrown down after they had passed ;
and the way the ball was placed in the Scrum would have
done credit to a Tivoli juggler. But it all passed un-
noticed. Had a referee who was not obsessed with fear
and respect for the Maorilanders’ knowledge of the game
been in charge, N.S.W. would probably have won
on penalty kicks alone. All this notwithstanding,
the Maoriland team is one of the finest Rugby combina-
tions writer has ever seen. The men are as alert as
seismographs, and as sharp as needles. Also, they are as
honest at their game as a Sydney spieler is at Nap.
* * * *
In the whole 16 matches played between N.S. W.
and Maoriland Rugby teams only one has exceeded that
of Saturday in disaster, and that happened in 1897, when
a Maoriland team won in Sydney by 26 to 3. In 1884,
Maoriland won by 21 to 2, which was about the same as
the latest. In 1893 N.S.W. got back with 25 to 3, and in
1897 by 22 to 8. Maoriland has won 13 games, and
N.S.W. only three.
Northern District Association crowd gave the
Maoriland Soccer team a long run for their last victory.
The N.D. men were on the aggressive all the time, but the
Maorilanders played a defensive game that was admirable,
and, though hard pressed always, managed to stave off
the attacks and keep the goal inviolate. It was a free
kick for pushing that gave the Maorilanders their one
hope, and they managed to turn it into a goal, and so
won a strenuous game, which would otherwise probably
have ended in a draw without a score. This latest streak
of luck puts the Maorilanders ahead ; they have now won
four matches to the Cornstalks’ three.
* * * *
Rozelle and Pyrmont clubs are now at the bead
of the Soccer competition with 12 points each, and Glebe
trots close behind with 10. Pyrmont-Ultimo match on
Saturday was something of a surprise. Ultimo attacked
vigorously from the start and secured the first goal. At
resumption Pyrmont attacked but got rolled up, and
just as Ultimo was carrying all before it a penalty kick
equalised the scores. A neat bit of combined play re-
sulted in Pyrmont securing a second goal, and the game
was settled by 2to 1. Sydney was hopelessly out-classed
by Balmain, and went down by 1 to 6 ; while, after a fast,
willing game, Rozelle beat Glebe by 4to nil. The match
between Granville and South Sydney w'as interesting.
I’hey shared the bottom of the list between them, and
bad neither won a match. The result was to leave South
Sydney still at the bottom of the list, Granville winning
by 5 to 1.
With captain Matthews and three other of the
best men away, Y.M.C.A. met the strongest team New-
town could raise, and the result was one of the best and
fastest games ever played in Sydney under Australian
rules. Newtown stopped every rush, and made counter
attacks the moment the Good Young Men were repulsed.
The Y.M.O.A. fellows put in beautiful kicking, and the
Newtowns replied by good marking and harrying tactics
and concerted rushes that carried the leather right down
the field. The Good Young Men kept their tails up to the
very end, and in the last quarter their splendid condition
began to tell, and the tide turned slowly in their favor,
but the change came too late. The Good Young Men
were beaten by 82 points to 28.
* * * *
The whole round of Australian rules toeball
was interesting on Saturday. Paddington beat Redfern
by 70 to 29. Sydney downed East Sydney by 56 to 82.
North Sydney and Balmain played a rousing game, the
former winning by 46 to 41 points.
Penman, of the ’Varsity Rugby club, has
achieved the unique distinction of representing his State
in both cricket and football. He played in the Next Best
XI. against Queensland, and on the Rugby field against
Maoriland. He is a fast bowler, a fast runner, but he
toiled painfully far in the rear of the Maorilanders, who
on Saturday ran like motor-bikes.
* • « *
How the proud do get humbled at times ! After
reaching the exalted position of football umpire, and
after ruling with a firm hand and a penny whistle 36
bloodthirsty ruffians for a whole afternoon, the referee at
the last Port Adelaide-West Torrens match was spanked
with umbrellas by two lady barrackers from the Port.
* * * *
Wren’s Club (Oity Tattersall’s) has a football
team competing for the junior premiership in Melbourne.
Its members name themselves the Murmur Club, and play
in Wren’s racing colors —brown with blue hoops. They
are an under-sized, clean-shaven, close-cropped 18, with
an expert kmuyledge of the finer methods of tripping,
hacking, Every man in the team chews
tobacco, and the Murmur ruck —half-a-dozen hard faces
with jaws moving slowly up and down —is an engaging
spectacle. The Murmurs are usually beaten by 10 or 12
g dais-to 1.
~F> $$ * * * *
Hi the light of Australian experience of inter-
state cricket, it seems incredible that Jackson should
have prolonged the Englishmen's second innings until
near lunch-time on the last day of a Test match, so as to
set the'Australians a score of 400 to beat before six
thirty. - Evidently he thought them capable of making,
say, 350 runs in less than five hours against bowling and
fielding which was strong enough to get them out for 195
in their first innings. What dashing batsmen they can be
when they play against time, instead of for time, as in
Australia! Certainly no previous Australian XI. has
shown so much energy in walloping the weaker counties.
>** » *
Some of the English journals gave the visitors
credit for supplying the bulk of the entertainment in the
first Test: A Daily Chronicle reporter wrote : “England
batted 3brs. 25min. for 196, Australia made the first 100
for one wicket in about 70 minutes. It was the difference
of night and day, of a team of supple athletes and a collec-
tion of degenerates.”
**\ \ * *
Board, the little Gloucestershire wicket keeper,
is a greatly improved batsman since his visit to Australia.
Early in the season he scored an innings of 119 not out,
and against the Australians he put up 46 and 59.
* * * *
Cricketer W. G. Grace will be 57 on July 18.
Comparrd with Australian veterans long out of the
business, he is an .antiquity. J. J. Lyons is 42, and Geo.
Giffen and A. H. Jarvis 44.
* * * *
The English cricket potentates show more
wisdom than of yore in selecting test teams. Warren,
the Derbyshire bowler, seems to have been picked for the
third test because he was new to the Australians. Up to
the end of May his name hadn’t figured in the English
lists of the 20 best bowling averages for first-class matches.
But a respectable second-class bowler whom the batsmen
don’t know is likely to be more effective than the devil
they do know. Warren “ came off.”
A London paper, which got from the Aus-
tralian XI. twelve complete sets of autographed photos,
and then called for tenders (for a charity), got an offer of
£8 Bs. for a set. Clem Hill proved to be the favorite,
there being several half-guinea tenders for him. Cotter
came next at 7s. 6d. Trumper, Laver, and Armstrong
were the only others saleable at more than ss. apiece.
* * * *
“Slip”: Some of the tactics of the Australian
XI., as disclosed by the bowling in the second innings of
the third Test, were a mighty poor class of cricket. Arm-
strong bowled throughout (5 for 122) at one end, while
Noble (0 for 68) and M‘Leod (0 for 62) relieved each other
at the opposite end. Armstrong apparently kept bowling
wide of the leg stump, and the other two wide on the off
side, with the idea of keeping down the runs. A similar
course was pursued in the first Test, the Australians
having apparently despaired of getting the batsmen out.
How are we fallen !
* * * *
D. Billington, the swimmer who downed our
Kieran in England, is only 20 years of age, and has been
a front-rank swimmer since he was 12. Neither with nor
without his clothes does the Englishman look anything
out of the ordinary ; but he was amphibious from his
cradle, being born the son of a bath proprietor, and
living on the premises. All Australia’s latter-day cham-
pions, excepting perhaps Healey, have developed under
almost similar conditions.
* * * •
Cabled last week that Australian swimmer
Kieran won supremacy of the Mersey (distance “ about a
mile”) by 300 yards. Probably Billington was not a
starter, and opposition was consequently weak. An-
nounced on Monday that Kieran went under in the first
event (440 yards) of the King’s Cup, again beaten by
Billington, who finished 10 yards to the good. No one in
Australia, or England for that matter, who knew
Kieran’s swimming and what the conditions of
the King’s Cup were, anticipated the Aus-
tralian would be successful. Besides the swim, a
dummy drowning man had to be dived for in a specified
depth of water, picked up and carried to the shore in a par-
ticular way, as taught by the Royal Life Saving Society,
points being awarded for manner and time in which
the conditions were carried out. Kieran never had
any practice at Life Saving Society’s methods and was
never known to indulge in deep diving. The second
event of the same competition was to have taken place on
Monday, but as competitors had to swim 150 yards on
their breasts Kieran should have had little chance (he is,
comparatively, a poor breast swimmer) especially if the
Swedish champion took part. Neither did it seem likely
that Billington would win, for the same reason. Speed
swimmers discarded the breast stroke long since, first in
favor of the single overarm and then the double overarm
(“ Trudgeon ”) stroke.
f * • *
J. J. Miller’s “Sporting Pamphlet” has burst
forth again—a blessed harbinger of Spring—for the in-
struction of hopeful punters who seek the long-priced
“ double.” Eighty-two pages of the Pamphlet give the
performances of all horses entered for Melbourne and
Caulfield Cups, not forgetting to mention their Metrop.
weights where they are also entered for the A.J.C. event.
Another 100 pages are devoted to the burning question of
records in all directions of sport. Even motoring is
classed as a sport, which suggests that Miller owes one
more duty to the public that travels on wheels. The
Pamphlet doesn’t furnish any railway-train records. If
a motorist is a sportsman, how about the common or
grimy driver of a steam locomotive?
* * » *
Of course, it is all to improve the breed of
horses. At three recent Melbourne suburban meetings—
Moonee Valley, Williamstown, and Mentone—267 horses
started in 17 events. If the present rate of improvement
continues, some day we’ll have horses as big as elephants
and fast as a defaulting director’s motor-car.
“Form ” was well represented in the two prin-
cipal events at Flemington last Friday. In the Doutta
Galla Hurdle a couple of Grand National winners—Mar-
niont and York—ran second and third to the speedy
Florin. The Steeplechase went to Beilis, who ran second
for the Hurdle last year.
* * * *
Although Airly was going strong, just in front
of Beilis, when he blundered at the penultimate fence, it
is fair to assume that he couldn’t have beaten the son of
Lochiel for the big Steeplechase if he had stood up. He
might have finished in front of Isis, who was three lengths
behind the winner. Airly has the fault of “ taking off ”
too soon, a very serious fault at Flemington, where the
jumps are stiffer than at Caulfield. On his two perform-
ances over the Flemington course this last G.N. meeting,
Airly has a capital chance to win the Caulfield Steeple a
second time.
* , * T * . " .
Saturday saw the bookmakers of Sydney on
strike. The suburban racing clubs raised their license
fees by something about 100 per cent., Rosehill Club put-
ting up its charge from £l2 10s. to £25.. The bookmakers
said they’d go to the football match instead, and, with
one exception, they went. They were quite confident
that the club would climb down, but were grievously
disappointed. The club made nary a sign. Then
a bomb exploded. The Carlton Club, a limited lia-
bility concern in which every member has a proprie-
tary interest, and which has grown in some way out of
the ancient and honorable business of Humphrey Oxen-
ham, offered to supply all the fielders the club required.
It followed up the attack by offering the A.J.O. £lO,OOO
per annum for the exclusive right to field at Randwick,
and there is, at the time of writing, terror —just plain,
abject terror —in the two big bookmakers’ clubs which call
themselves Tattersalls and City Tattersalls. The book-
makers have informed a scornful public that there is
nothing in fielding, that most of them are carrying
on at a loss, and continuing to go to the ba,d
at every meeting for the convenience of the public
and the improvement of the breed of horses, and
other worthy objects. The Carlton Club says that the
fees hitherto charged have been ridiculously low, and
further, that the public has had no guarantee when it
made a wager with a registered bookmaker that he could
pay. The fact of being registered by the A.J.O. and a
member of either of the bookmakers’clubs is no guarantee
of solvency, and neither the clubs nor the A.J.C. take any
responsibility in the matter. If the Carlton’s offer is
accepted, it is understood that the capital of the
club will be behind the men whom it licenses
to field. The two Tatts. Clubs have persecuted
Humphrey for a long time, and now that bluff, astute old
Englishman is getting back on them very heavily indeed.
There’s'not much to enthuse over in the sordid rush for
the spoil, but it must certainly be admitted that on the
surface it looks as though the Carlton Club offers better
value for the money. Of course it would be a monopoly,
but even that will be no worse than the present system.
* * * *
The absence of Ikey Mo.’s aggressive bulk and
strident voice from Rosehill racecourse last Saturday
was agreeable indeed to those who were not there to bet
to arty great extent. Those who were, found opportuni-
ties per medium of the “pony books,” who swarmed
about the place and called the odds in hushed tones.
They were not registered, and should conse-
quently not have been tolerated, but something
had to be done—the bulk of the race - going
public had to be catered for—hence the presence of men
outside the “ registered ” pale was winked at. It was
possible to win fairly big sums, so much money did the
Noses in attendance represent. On the whole backers
were losers, and a good majority of the layers went home
devoutly praying that the sleek and portly Ikeys of
Sydney and City Tattersalls’ Clubs would keep on striking
till the end of time.
* * * *
Imported aristocratic-looking Condor, by cham-
pion Pretty Polly’s sire, Gaillinule, from Tragedy, and
brother to successful English sire and St. Leger winner
Wildfowler, made his first Australian appearance at Rose-
hill on Saturday. Though not as fit as he might be later,
he won Flving Welter in a manner that promises much
for the future. History of Condor is interesting. As a
yearling he cost 2500g5., but, proving a rank failure in the
Cold Country (only a small event for maidens fell to
him), he was bought at a clearing-out sale for 35g5., and
brought to Australia. Condor has big engagements
at lead —in Epsom Handicap (Bst.), Metrop. (7.10), Caulfield
Cup (7.7), and Melbourne Cup (7.9).
* * * *
There’s considerable prize money for horse
racing in M.L. Mr. G. G. Stead (who troubles more about
w.f.a. than handicap events) has gathered, in eight suc-
cessive seasons, £ss,lBs—his best year was 1901-2, which
brought him £12,325, and his worst 1899-00, when, for
the first and only time, one man (Mr. “Breakwater”
Ormond) appropriated more money. Stead never bets,
and yet it is frequently asserted that no owner can make
the game remunerative without betting. In eight suc-
cessive Maoriland seasons J. D. Ormond has secured
£23,208, and George Clifford £19,251.
* * * *
Be racehorse nomenclature: At Wallsend
(N.S.W.) the other day a prad which competed under the
name of A.B.C.D.E.F. broke Isaac Noses up altogether.
At last he solved the problem by calling the brute just
plain Ab-stiff.
r * * * *
A wrestle is being arranged between Buttan
Singh, the colored champion of Australia, and Scott, who
claims to be the champion “ all-round ” wrestler of Maori-
land. Scott is Oft. 3£in., and a marvel at footwork. Also
he is a bad-tempered wrestler, and has a habit of “ push-
ing ” the other man on the side of the head over the ear,
whereat the other man usually gets , wild. Though Scott
does talk a deal, Buttan will have a neckful with him.
* * * *
The racing for the Dunlop Inter-Club Premier-
ship shield continued on Saturday, and, contrary to
expectation, Northern Suburbs downed Curzon Park
easily. St. George did not put in an appearance, and
there is a strong suspicion that it did not injure its
chance by staying away. Most followers of the sport
expected a desperate struggle, instead of which North
Shore had four men in the first five who finished, the
other being a Curzon Park man—F. R. Ray. The Ama-
teur Road championship will be decided after the Dunlop
Inter-Club Shield has found its resting place for the next
twelve months. The deciding distance has been increased
from 20 to 30 miles. The outward metal sign of the cham-
pionship is a gold medal valued at five guineas, with
another, alleged to be worth two guineas, for the runner-
up. There is a probability that these medals are worth
their alleged value ; the Dunlop people generally do the
thing properly. The present individual road champion
of N.S.W; is W. D. Lawson, of the Balmain Club, and it
is understood he is going to make a big effort to hold the
distinction another year, and hang another five-guinea
medal on his watch-chain.
* * * *
For the fourth time, and twice in succession,
France has won the Gordon-Bennet Cup. G. Thery, who
drove the winning car last year, was at the wheel again
this, and once more the Richard-Brazier was the lucky
car. The course was considered the most dangerous ov< r
which the race has ever been run. Thery is the only
driver who has won two Gordon-Bennet Cups. So far no
word of any accident has bebn received, and it looks as
though the well-advertised dangers of the course caused
everybody to take extra precautions. It was a fearful
test; the road ran through passes and over hills, and was
full of sharp, almost right-angled, turns.
« * * *
The amusing, but not uncommon, spectacle of
two or more men dubbing and being dubbed by fiery
partisans “ Australian champion ” is just now one of the
jokes of the bruising ring. Heavy-weights M‘Call, and
Squires and middle-weight Tim Murphy are all claimants.
Squires says his breakage of Felix placed him at the top.
Murphy insists that as he challenged Squires, and Squires
didn’t meet him, Murphy is the only all-wool article.
M'Call seems to be the only one with any shadow of a
claim, and his is not much more than a shadow. He was
admitted champion till a badly-injured shoulder, which
resisted all treatment, rendered retirement necessary.
He passed the laurels to Dan Creedon ; and that’s where
the mix-up begins. The all-important question is : “ Can
a man pass on the laurels?” Creedon had previously
accounted for Doherty, who was fresh from destroying
Peter Felix. Squires never met Oreedon, and never
wanted to. M‘Call, having polished off Oreedon at New-
castle recently, now claims to have recovered the cham-
pionship he passed on, and to have resumed the bashing
business at the old stand, so that aspiring pugs in search
of honors have only to come along to be accommodated.
* * * *
A satirical report of the feather-weight fight at
Melh. Athletic Club between Dick Oullen (U.S.A.) and
Frank Silver, the local man, states that it was a “ nice
clean contest, entirely free from objectionable features
such as blood.” In the tlurd round Oullen smote Silver
in the visage, and the smitten one fell to the floor,
remaining there whilst he was counted out. Neither
fighter suffered any injury, but the feelings of some
among the audience appeared to be-wounded.^
T. Wilkes and J. Gaffney put up a cheerful
slogging match at Sydney Gaiety on Saturday night.
Both men showed an irrepressible inclination to prance
and rush. Gaffney went down, but wasn’t sure if the
Other had hit him, or just pitched himself against him.
When he got up a steady drizzle of fists set in, and some-
thing caught Gaffney under the breast-bone and laid him
out once more. Later he caught two more on either side
of the face, and resumed the horizontal. Then Wilkes
stopped one, with the side of his head, that seemed to put
his thinking machinery off its balance. Gaffney got in
close, but a right-hander sent him for, a spell on the
boards while Wilkes got his head into position again, in
fact, Gaffney was getting quite accustomed to the floor.
At the end of the fourth round it was obvious that he had
no show, excepting that of a chance knock-out, and as that
did not seem imminent, the referee stopped the fight
and declared Wilkes the winner.
* * * »
Shortly after the return fight between Green
and Wilmot started, at Sydney National Sporting Club,
last week, the referee thought be defected an odor offish.
Later on, he believed he smelt dead whales, and he
declared all bets off. As the betting, which had been
considerable, favored Green at 2 to 1 “ on,” there was a
noise. The fighting was brisk enough to look at, although
no one seemed to be any the worse. It was a right on the
point of the jaw in the eighth which caused Wilmot to
compose his limbs gracefully on the floor while the
referee counted 10.
• * * *
Pug champion Jeffries claims that he gives up
boxing because of muscular rheumatism in his hands and
wrists, which makes it almost as painful for him to punch
as his punch used to be for his antagonists.
• * * *
On the sth and 9th of next month a Queensland
lacrosse team will play in Sydney, and the lacrosse people,
unlike the footballers, have already picked their teams
and set them to practise. Which is as it should be.
* * * *
ihe fashionable Hurlingham Sports Club in
England has decided to do away with pigeon shooting on
its grounds. This laudable decision was come to after an
exposure of the fiendish cruelties which accompany
pigeon-murdering, some of which are ' Breaking the
bird’s legs to cause it to flutter slowly from the trap.
Twisting the “bob” tail feathers of the healthy birds,
and pushing them back through the socket into the flesh,
causing excruciating pain, which makes the bird “ get up
sharp.” Cooping the birds up for days in shallow baskets
without water or food, in order to prevent them rising too
quickly from the traps and escaping the guns. Wing
joints violently pinched with pincers or a blunt pair of
scissors, by which flying is made a process of agony for
the bird. A small but painful cut at the root of the neck
has the effect of keeping the pigeon low. Burning the
pigeon’s feet with acid to make it take an erratic course.”
The Law is engaged in suppressing betting in
Melbourne with great violence but little effect. It has
fined various tobacconists, barbers, &c., from £2O to £5O
apieoe—with costs—and is now dealing with the aggre-
gate and individual Hong' Moons and Ah Hangs who run
the Chinese lotteries in Lilly Buck-stleet. Some two
score of these have so far been fined about £lOOO alto-
gether, with £2OO costs, and all, with one consent, have
straightway appealed. Incidentally the Law has got some
surprising information about this ticket-marking gamble.
One witness averred that the 80 characters on the tickets
represent the Lord’s Prayer, while another asserted they
were a sort of Chinese tract, being the first lesson in the
second Chinese school-book, an exercise for yellow
infants that contains 1000 different characters. Also it
transpires that the slant-eyed lottery-runners are far worse
than Ikey Mo. in the matter of laying odds, for if all the
10 characters the punter marks off correspond with the
bank’s 10 he gets £75 for his 3d.—odds of 6000 to 1—
whereas the law of combinations proves the chance of
striking the correct 10 to be 1,646,492,110,120 to 1. On a
similar gamble Tattersall, of Hobart, after deducting his
10 per cent., would pay £18,523,036,238 and some shillings.
Meanwhile both Aon and Argus are publishing columns
daily about the proprietary betting clubs which defy the
law and yet are so easy of entry that gambling is being
encouraged to a dangerous extent.
It isn’t only in Australia that a thoughtful oye
is being cast on Ikey Noses and his facile pencil. Cable
states that the French turf authorities have intimated
that the person who lays “ Deux a un sur le champs'’
(this is the office-kid’s French) will be excluded from all
racecourses after August Ist. This growing inclination
to retire Isaac Noses from an occupation that is very
wearing on the lungs excites profound ingratitude on the
part of the person whose lungs are being considered.


■
iiiliiiii
MS'
SIR EDMUND BARTON i
“ I am directed by Sir Edmund Barton to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 25th i
and to thank you for the box of cigars, ‘Surabarang,’ at 40s. per 100. I am to inform you that oir
Edmund Barton has smoked one or two of the cigars, and he thinks their quality is very good lndeea,
especially considering the very moderate price at which they are sold. Sir Edmund Barton will o
pleased if you will send him a box containing a hundred of the cigars in question.”
The HARSUMA cigar can be submitted to careful
analysis or microscopical examination. It is made
from the choicest growths of tobacco from the
Islands of the East Indies, skilfully blended in a
scientific manner, producing a result which is
absolutely unique.
manufactured at ||fltfflMNA (Near Congleton), ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES—
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & COMPANY, SYDNEY
JL
"VeryOldVatted
LiqueurWiiisky.
DistilledBcßottledL by
Kilmarnork .Scotland.
T?OR the pers >n who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
x ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor—GEO. IF. ELLIS,
SOFTENS THE
lARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’.
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
Every Bar weighs 17 Iloi.est
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tool* in
one. You will never be without it.
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
CURES
rOUCHS COLD,
AND
k LU E N 2^
“ GRAND PRIX" PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
An Inexpensive Artistic Novelty
PHOTO FAKfj
VERY DECORATIVE
Each Fan holds Five Cabinet Photographs.
1/9 each ; Two
for 3/-
Six for Q/m
Carriage Paid.
'T'HRSK handsome Photo Fans have just arriv'd from
America, where they are immensely pi pular and are
selling in great numbers. They an- made of a material of
the nature of pipier-mache. somewhat resembling felt in
appearance. They ome in v- rious artistic colorings : OUve,
Stone Grey, Madder Blown Slate Blue, Crimson and
Mottled Green, and the sections are fastened with ribbon of a
contrasting shade. When fill y extended, as shown in the
illustration, the Fan exceeds 21 Inches in width, and it will
accommodate Five Cabinet Photographs. Several of these
Fans effectively decorate a room and display the Photograph*
of friends and relatives very attractively. We have the ex-
clusive oontrol of these goods,but, instead of fixing a high
price upon them, we Intend to utilise them to advertise our
other lines. Wo have, thererore, decided to sell them at only
Is. 9d. each, or Two Fans for 35., or Six Fans for Bs., includ-
ing carriage to any address, and with each order we will send
our Illustrated Catalogue of nearly 200 pages, comprising
many novel and curious articles that cannot be procured else-
where. There Is something Interesting on every page. To
Saxe disappointment, you should send your order at once with
postal notes of any State. If you mention this paper when
ordering, we will send with the goods a Curions Puzzle.
The Union IVlfg. St Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“It is able to support
Life — Lancet.
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Contains more nourishment than
10 cups of any ordinary cocoa.
Absolutely free from
Chemicals,
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
On Security of Freehold oi*
Leasehold City or Suburban
Propertieei or on
Freehold"and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Covernment
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Mew Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any One.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq’.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq, ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq.,
M.L.A. General Manaaer and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
Missing Friends.
IF THOMAS JOHNSON SANDERSON,
son of Isaac Sanderson, will communicate
with The Trustees, Executors & Agency Co.,
Ltd., of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, he will
hear of something to his advantage.
“Eroc”: Your correspondent (8/6/’O5),
who tells of Queensland Justice Cooper’s threat to
release all the prisoners on trial if his expenses
were not paid, is slightly astray. MTlwraith was
not running the political show at the time.
Griffith was Premier, but was in England, and
J. R. Dickson was acting mildly as his locum
tenens. The lively Justice would have been
knocked off his perch before he had crowed thrice
had either Griffith or MTlwraith been at the
wheel.
A month or so ago the Eastern States
papers, just then vigorously battering at the
N.S.W. Arbitration Act, reported that Roe,
S.M., of Perth, had said that it was monstrous
that non-unionists should be bound as well as
unionists by an Arbitration award, and he didn’t
believe the Law meant any such thing ; further,
he wouldn’t make an order which involved any
such interpretation. But the same papers were
remarkably silent abeut the subsequent proceed-
ings. Roe, S.M., went home, and thought over
the thing, and saw that an award that didn’t
extend to non-unionists would be just as absurd
as a law that compelled licensed pubs to shut at
11 but allowed sly-grog shanties to keep open all
night. Then he came down to his court in the
morning, said he had been hasty, took it all back,
and made the order asked for.
A human wreck, with his coat-collar well
about his ears, called recently at a hospital close
to Sydney and asked, hoarsely, for “ Th’ flurse.”
Was the matter pressing? Well, yes. “Yer
see,” he said, throwing wide his coat, suddenly,
“ I’ve cut me throat.” He got a. bed promptly.
Later, the Law called, and stayed. That’s three
weeks ago, and the Law’s there yet. _ One of him
appears at eight o’clock in the morning, takes up
a position on the verandah where the convalescents
are playing euchre, and occasionally puts his head
around the door to see that the wreck is still in
bed. At 4 p.m. the Law wipes the sweat from
his exhausted brow, and retires. Another unit of
the Law takes up the vast orb of the job, and con-
tinues to support it till he retires at 12, midnight.
Law unit No. 3 appears and lasts till 8 a.m., when
the round begins afresh. Some weeks hence the
wreck will be sufficiently patched to receive a
caution, and then the Law will yawn after its
arduous labours, and the next police report will
lament, as usual, that it hasn’t a large enough
force to cope with the sandbagger and the burglar.
To MINING DIRECTORS.
§B**
> M
**uies
S? \A*!ts°l22**'o
h" a * *'J.°»*»£S' °S~‘
i ,aa iul\?**••! * * r "ciT* *><
a s «ttr Of L'y- that * u P»Orf- T
JJ “"HHo.'/'-'-pSffi;
„ ko»6 W rY-Coia
„ ««rf fi a/l .
Kin g i v 08e > V alv ea n ** e,tln &
not .a e you Pv . s » Gasket*
Juirea* 11 *Uow* Celle *it r « , S > e fc.,
Qu*£! Ben 's? V u * fo -„ esu Us. *
<, if yAad ur^° u *ill*t; ppl y vc%.
&a «*PJ es an * ork ‘»*n J.' ld tb y e °Z r 'e.
Tbe ? , "‘i°p7r L °°***
ft.S.W. Depots
t5O Clarence Street,
Sydney,
To MINE MANAGERS, &c
Just now Q. Treasurer Kidston is bent on
bursting up a fish monopoly bossed by several
Greeks. These worthies control absolutely the
Brisbane fish supply. If the fishermen have a
goad haul they are compelled to throw the bulk of
the fish back into the sea as the monopolists will
only take a certain amount daily. The solution
lies in a central fish market through which all
supplies must go. Kidston thinks this should be
a municipal affair, and is urging the city fathers
to that end.
The so-called “ Speech from the Throne ”
delivered at the opening of Maoriland Parliament
was much more long-winded and discursive than
usual. It occupied 2f columns of print, and
Governor Plunket was visibly tired when he got
through it. The Speech contained allusions
to a whole host of subjects, and even men-
tioned the despatch of the Bisley pewter-pot
shootists to Hinglaud, expressing a pious hope
that they would be successful, or words to that
effect. The glaring omission of all reference to
the forthcoming visit of the Maoriland Rugby
team to London and its environs has caused the
Government to be anathematised by the Associated
Older of Limb Cripplers, who feel rather slighted.
The men who hold miles of Maoriland’s
fertile flats and hillsides have quite recently made
some interesting statements in the Compensation
Court.. Seddon’s Government was compulsorily
buying two big estates, one in the Wairarapa and
one in the Blenheim district, under the Land for
Settlement Act, for the purpose of moving some
of the landless people from the towns. The
owners of both properties fought the State
vigorously re the amount of their compensation,
basing their claims, not on the amount the pro-
perties had earned during recent years, but “on
the amount the estates should have earned had
they been farmed to their full capacity”; and
they waded in vigorously to prove that their lazi-
ness, their neglect, and their unfitness to be
entrusted with the work of developing Maoriland’s
soil were so amazing that the land which mouldered
in their charge wasn’t producing half what it
ought to do.
The Morgan Government in Queensland
is preparing a schedule of betterment charges for
some proposed new light railways. If passed
Treasurer Kidston intends to see the charges im-
posed, and will collect the money earnestly. As a
rule betterment charges in Australia are matters
of form, but Kidston has no faith in form and not
much in ceremony.
Salvarmy staff-captain Bishop says he has
awakened to the fact that 20 to 25 per cent, of
N.S.W. unemployed are skilled workmen. Why,
then, did he not call for more factories and
workshops so that these men might be employed
on the trades they can make money at, instead of
suggesting new labor farms in the country ? The
employment at his proper work of the skilled
workman would be more profitable for man and
State than making him an amateur grower of
dwarf cabbages in sand.
It is clear enough that, though Queensland
shows a small surplus this year, it can’t escape
further taxation, and should not try to. Apart
from the fact that Federal expenditure is growing,
and refunds from the Commonwealth will pro-
bably tail off, a bad year will put Queensland far
on the wrong side again. It was only the rail-
ways that saved the situation for Kidston —they
earned £112,000 more than in 1903-4 and cost
about £11,000 less to run. And, then, public
works have been almost at a standstill; the
Works Department only spent £30,408 alto-
gether. No-more-borrowing doesn’t mean dry rot
and stagnation; in fact, the best way to kill the
No-more-borrowing policy is to stop progress, and
yet progress must stop unless Queensland gets in
more money.
A yarn that might be true even if it
isn’t:—
Met a Tory friend the day the Federal Parliament was
uncorked. He seemed despondent. Asked him what
was wrong. “ I’ve been looking at the leaders of Conser-
vatism in Australia,” he said, “and I feel ill. I’ve been
looking at Reid, and Neild, and Soapy Gray, and Simon
Frazer, and Dobson, and Pulsford, and Macfarlane. I’m
English bred, and I dislike change ; but what sort of men
have I got to vote for ? In England the Conservatives
are represented by men who are clean, and have brains
and scholarship. But here all the brains and all the
administrative ability are on the other side. Conser-
vatism gets the remnants —the men who have been
kicked or frozen out of every other party, or who are
fighting for their private ends. The papers that stand
behind them stand in front of shoddy "warehousemen and
stock exchange spielers—people we wouldn’t know in
England. Conservatism is real in England; but it’s a
mockery here. It has no policy. It is boom and borrow
and swindle. Look at the evidence of the Butter
Commission. And how many more festering jobs are'
there waiting to be found out? Who put them up?
The Laborites? No, the so-called Conservatives, the
shoddy Tories—men who talk about the purity of the
home, when their own ramps and jobberies stink. I’m
sick of being told to vote for men who shiver in their
shoes at the mention of an inquiry into anything.


N.S.W. Lands Scandals.
THE PRESENT POSITION.
The Royal Commission appointed to investigate
the scandals arising from the administration of
the New South Wales Lands Department has
adjourned for a short breathing spell. .There is
for a while a rest from the whirl of revelations,
from the procession of odors, from the outcry of
direct accusations and plausible suspicions. The
Judge presiding has time to breathe, to
collect his perplexed senses, to recover from
the astoundment which has fallen on him,
as on the rest of the community, through the lifting
of a small corner of the veil from the trans-
actions of the Lands Department; and he
needs it. Much weighty work awaits Mr.
Justice Owen. It is for him to hear, with-
out doubt, much more evidence similar in
character to that which has been already sworn
to; and then to give with judicial sternness, as
well as judicial fairness, a verdict which will put
before the public eye in accurate stereoscope the
wrong-doing and the wrong-doers. Much of the
rascality which the Commission has disclosed can
probably only be punished by the condemning
MR. JUSTICE OWEN, who is
conducting inquiry into
N.S.W. Land scandals.
voice of the
public, and
the task will
fall upon Mr.
Owen of giv-
ing that voice
a full and
weighty ex-
pression.
The inter-
val should be
utilised to re-
duce to some
orderly sys-
tem the pro-
gress of the
investigaion.
So far, the evi-
dence has
been taken
haphazard.
The court has
jumped from
one transaction to another, never pursuing one to
its end without interruption, taking interpolated
evidence whenever it offered. The impression
left on the public mind is thus a blurred and
chaotic one. There is a bruised feeling that
great blows are falling, but no clear impression
of the exact position.
To give some definite idea of what has been so
far disclosed, The Bulletin publishes this sum-
mary of the evidence so far as it has proceeded,
giving only the salient facts and reserving all
comment. It is not urged that in any particular
the law has been broken. That is for others to
say. This is but a plain record of the evidence so
far as it has been elicited, some of the statements
being, possibly, open to future contradiction.
The Lands Department on Trial.
It is, of course, the Lands Department, its
administration and its officials, that is on trial
rather than any agents who have been able to use
that department to secure improper concessions,
to retard genuine settlement, and to fatten their
own purses. The community knows no Supreme
Court agents, who for £lOOO or £5OOO can guaran-
tee Jones that his case against Smith will be
-settled in his favor, because the Supreme Court is
ippt suspected of being amenable to any other
sort pf reasoning than that which is brought
forward in the full light of day. The com-
munity fipes know land agents who can obtain
MR. J. H. CARRUTHERS,
Premier of N.S.W., who
appointed the Commission of
inquiry, and has been one
of the witnesses.
enormous fees
for what
should be the
simplest of
routine appli-
cations, be-
cause there is
an impression
abroad that a
decision of the
Lands De-
partment can
be expedited
or diverted by
some occult
means, which
only the land
agent of the
giant exaction
can command.
This impres-
sion may be
false, but it is
general; and
the fact that
it is general conveys a deep reproach on that De-
partment.
Perhaps, for the benefit of those not conversant
with the intricacies of the N.S.W. land laws, a
few words are necessary in general explanation.
The ostensible purpose of all land legislation in
N.S.W. is to settle the people on the land. Agree-
able to that purpose, the land is sold or leased at,
generally, something much under its real value,
conditionally on the purchaser or lessee fulfilling
certain terms of residence, or improvement, or
both. There are many varieties of tenure, some
of them with very onerous, others with very easy,
conditions as to residence, etc. An “improve-
ment lease”—a term which will crop up fre-
quently before this Commission—is a form
of tenure legalised by Mr. Oarrutliers Dand
Act of 1895. It was designed to cover
the case of lands then out of occupation,
and in process of deterioration through vermin or
scrub or for some other reason, but which might
be improved and made fit for closer settlement if
offered on a long lease, in big areas, at a low rent
and on easy terms to men with the means to effect
the necessary improvements. What has been
sought to be established before the Lands Com-
mission is that, in many cases, the Lands Depart-
ment has wrongly allowed to be leased on im-
provement terms land quite suitable for home-
stead settlement.
The Improvement Leases that the Simses
Didn’t Get.
So far, practically only the transactions of one
land agent, Mr. W. N. Willis, have been investi-
gated. There are, according to that gentleman,
others. And possibly he is right. But Mr.
Willis has, either from merit or accident, been
given pride of place by the Commission. The
Sims family brought his agency methods into
Court. 8,. S. Sims, S. W. Sims, Alice Sims,
T. M. Sims, Sarah Sims, and Harold Sims were
settlement lessees under the Land law. In all
they held among them 15,802 acres. The condi-
tions of the settlement leases were onerous, as
settlement lease land was supposed to be
of good quality, and suitable for close
settlement. The family wished to get rid of
those onerous conditions and amalgamate all the
blocks into one run under improvement lease con-
ditions (which would be comparatively free and
easy). Acting on advice, one of the family sought
Mr. Willis’ aid, and agreed to pay him £6OO in
case he got for them what they wanted. In Dec.,
1903, the Simses were assured that things were all
right. In Jan., 1904, the matter was referred to
the local Land Board. Mr. W. H. O’Malley Wood
represented the Crown and favored the Sims’ appli-
cation. He told the Board that he was instructed
by the Crown to support the application ; but
that, he afterwards explained, was a slip of the
tongue, “ he thought he was sent to represent the
Crown because he was known to favor the appli-
cation.” Mr. B. B. O’Conor —now Minister
for Education —was briefed (through a solicitor)
by Mr. Willis to speak for the Sims’ application.
Nevertheless, the Board was unfavorable. Mr.
Willis then appealed to the Land Court and
briefed Mr. Carruthers, now Premier of New
South Wales, to appear. The Court was adverse.
Mr. Willis insisted that .there was still hope. But
“ political changes” caused delay.. Mr. Crick had
left office. His successor for a few brief months
in the Waddell Ministry had also passed away
politically, and Mr. Ashton was Lands Minister.
Let his clients have patience, said Mr. Willis.
They wouldn’t, and instituted a suit to recover
what they had paid. Mr. Wilson (of Carruthers
and Wilson), who acted as Mr. Willis’ solicitor,
MR. W. P. CRICK, ex-Minister
for Lands —one of the wit-
nesses.
advised him
t ) settle. He
refused the
advice. The
c ise went into
court; then at
last Mr. Willis
hacked down.
It was the
publication of
reports of the
case by the
newspapers
which forced
the appoint-
ment of a
Commission
of Inquiry.
Idle reason
alleged for the
reluctance of
Mr. Willis to
settle in the
first instance was that others “ had had a
whack,” and for him to restore the £6OO
would have meant money out of pocket to him.
He denied that Mr. Crick was implicated with
him, and Mr. Crick endorsed this denial. A
humorous feature of the case was the production
of a letter drafted in Mr. Willis’ office for the
Simses to sign, and sent to the Minister for Lands
in support of their application to amalgamate the
six selections of the family with six residential
conditions into one run with one residential con-
dition. It was a pathetic effusion, and complained
that they could only “ eke out a miserable exist-
ence ” under the homestead conditions.
Improvement Leases that were got..
The improvement lease to the man on the land
in N.S.W., seems to have been like the Holy
Grail to the medieval knight—ever an object of
ardent pursuit. The improvement lease was desir-
able because of its easy form of tenure, designed
to put into occupation land of such poor possi-
bilities—whether because of scrub, vermin, or
other reason—that the rental and other terms had
to be made exceptionally light. Mr. Willis did
not always fail to get improvement leases for his
clients. The Simses simply had hard luck. Mr.
Thomas Harvey Brown, who had recommended
them to Mr. Willis, swore that Mr. Willis had
previously got four improvement leases for him.
Anderson Bros., Bathurst, employing Mr. Willis
and paying him a fee of £2OO, got, on improvement
lease terms, blocks aggregating 50,970 acres, which
they had previously held under more onerous
tenure.
Mr. G. E. Trequair employed Mr. Willis, pay-
ing him a fee of £lOOO, to get him an improvement
lease, and was made happy with what he wanted.
Subsequently he paid Mr. Willis £lOOO to get him
the Wingadee blocks (of which more anon) on the
same tenure. Mr. Willis failed, and honestly
paid back £990 of the fee. The Messrs. Rea—of
whom we will hear later—got that Wingadee
improvement lease, mortgaged it to Mrs. Willis
for £15,000, and the area, it was sworn, was after-
wards offered to Mr. G. E. Trequair for £21,000.
He didn’t do business at that figure.
There were other improvement lease trans-
actions which call for more detailed account.
The Rea Bros., and How Their Land got to
Mrs. Willis.
In July, 1903, there were three improvement
leases—Nos. 1181, 1182, and 1183—open for ten-
der. Mr. Patrick Rea, of Rea Bros., tendered, as
did Mr. G. E. Trequair. The Reas’ tender was ac-
cepted, without competition at public auction. In
June, 1904, Mr. W. N. Willis applied on behalf of
the Reas for 12 months’ extension of time to fulfil
some of the conditions of improvement under
which the leases were granted. This was allowed.
In Jan., 1905, another extension was applied for
and granted. In Feb., 1905, the leases were
transferred under a mortgage to Mrs. W. N.
Willis. Evidence given before the commission
stated that the Reas had never been seen in the
district where the lands were situated ; that the
leases were specially favored by the Lands
Department by being exempted from survey
fees and from timber-getting reservations. The
mortgage of £15,000 —why it was incurred and
how the money was spent —was not fully explained.
Both the brothers Rea gave evidence before the
Commission, but, unfortunately, it was their father
who knew all about the matter. And he was
dead. When the 76,000 acres of this improve-
ment lease passed over to Mrs. V illis, she was
paying to the Crown only about half the rent
charged for the adjoining property. It was
alleged that, since, Mrs. Willis offered the lease for
sale at £26,000.
M. F. Hayes and How His Land got to
Mks. Willis.
Adjoining the land which the Rea Bros, secured
so fortunately and lost to Mrs. Willis, was an area
which Mr. Michael Francis Hayes, who employed
Mr. Willis as his agent, found himself the happy
possessor of for a while. He got it under improve-
ment lease in spite of strong local protests
that it was good land, suitable for close
settlement, and not to .I*6 po.nde,toned as ,pf mere
improvement lease quality. Mr. Hayes was not
the only one lasting after this land. The leases
.\vere submitted to tender. •a.Pd fee tendered : fqr
No. 1239, £l3t 75.. 6d. a year jQent (other tenderers
offered £224. £306 jls. 3d v and #79)and for No.
1240, £122 ,7s- 6d. a year ,(qthe,r tenderers offered
£163 4s. Bd., £204, and £313 10$- ,7d.). On the face
of it, Mr. Hayes had the game by tendering
too low;. But that wasn’t the way of the Lands
Department in 1904, when a skilful land agent
was acting fo,r you. jin January, 1904, Mr.
Michael Francis Hayes was asked if he would
raise his tender to that of the highest tenderer in
each case ; : |fqr H ea se No. 1239 to £306 Is. 3d., for
Lease No- ft?4oto £313 10s. 7d. He seems to have
decided 'that he could pay that rent, and tendered
accordingly. The leases became his. In the first
flush of pos-
session (Janu-
ary 11, 1904)
he applied,
through Mr.
Willis, for a
re - appraise-
ment of the
rent, which he
already found
too heavy.
Mr. Willis’
agent repre-
sented him at
the local Land
Board, and
the applica-
tion was suc-
cessful. »The
rent of No.
1239 was re-
duced about
MR. W.N. WILLIS ,
land agent.
25 per cent., of No. 1240 more than 66$ per
cent. It was not explained to the Land Board
which sanctioned these reductions that Mr. Hayes
had originally got the leases by being allowed to
come up to a higher tenderer. In June, 1904,
Mr. Willis applied on behalf of Mr. Hayes for a
12 months’ extension of time for carrying out the
improvements necessary under the lease. This
was granted. On January 13, 1905, the land
passed over to Mrs. Willis under mortgage. Mr.
Hayes is, or was, a letter-carrier employed in a
suburban post-office. He is brother to Mrs.
Willis, and is not known in the district where he
held his improvement leases ; nor has the Lands
Commission, so far, been able to find him to give
evidence. The Hayes leases adjoined those of
the Rea Bros., and when they fell into Mrs.
Willis’ hands they, together, put her in possession
of a run of 73,779 acres.
Mrs. Willis as a Land-Owner.
Altogether Mrs. Willis appears to be a fairly
large land-holder. In addition to the areas men-
tioned above, she has another of about 80,000
acres somewhere, if the evidence of Mr. Michael
O’Connor is veracious. He swore that he, Mrs.
Jackson, Mrs. Thompson, and Mr. Michael
Francis Hayes, mentioned herein before, had in
the past taken up four blocks totalling 80,000
acres, and that they had passed by mortgage to
Mrs. Willis.
The Mungery West Leases.
The story of the Mungery West leases has some
curious points. Originally Mr. Hugh Strahorn held
three of these leases. The other three were held
respectively by Mr. J. Nicholls, who was employed
about Mr. Willis’ house at Randwick, Mr. T. R.
Scott, a clerk in Mr. Willis’ office, and Mr. Michael
O’Connor, a horse-dealer, of Randwick or there-
abouts, who “was in constant association with
Mr. Willis.” These three latter were unknown
in the district in which the leases were situated.
In course of time they all transferred their leases
to Mr. Strahorn. Having all the leases on settle-
ment conditions, Mr. Strahorn got the usual
craving for an improvement lease, and employed
Mr. Willis as his agent. The area was opened to
that sort of tenure. Mr. Strahorn was not the
only tenderer; and he was the lowest. But he was
allowed to increase his tender to that of the
highest, and secured the area as an improvement
lease, with very favorable conditions, being ex-
empted from timber and quarry reservations. Sub-
sequently the rents he had tendered were reduced ;
the rent for the original Nicholls area from Is. Id.
to 6d. an acre; for the Scott area from Is. o|d. to
5Jd. an acre; for the O’Connor area from Is. Id. to
sd. an acre. Mr. Willis acted as his agent in
these transactions, and he paid Mr. Willis in all
£2745.
The Walgett Lands (Mackay Bros.’) and
Some Others.
When the Messrs. Mackay wished to get
various areas in the Walgett district—Yarrandool,
Cryon, and Kincargo—as improvement leases they
were faced by a good deal of opposition. Lands
Department officials reported against the pro-
posal, but Mr. O’Malley Wood (who crops up in
several of these cases) reported in their favor.
Finally, they got what they wanted, and paid Mr.
Willis £6875 in all as fees for his agency services.
The Messrs. Edol, of Burrawong, after a hard
struggle—employing Mr. Willis as agent, and
paying him in all £6ooo—got 46,000 acres under
improvement lease conditions, against reports of
Lands Department officials and local protests.
They were afterwards not satisfied with their
bargain, the rent and conditions not being,
they considered, the sort for which one should pay
a £6OOO bonus to a land agent.
In the case of a small area at Gillendoon, Mr.
Wallace, who
employed Mr.
Willis as his
agent and
paid him £lOO,
was able to
get the land
on improve-
ment lease.
His tender
was not the
highest, but
,the Lands
Department
allowed him
,to amend his
tender up to
the highest,
and subse-
quently hi s
rent was re-
MR. R. D. MEAGHER,
land agent.
duced 25 per cent.
The Myall Creek Purchase.
The N.S.W. Government has, so far, not shown
that it was a very good bargain to purchase the Myall
Creek estate for cutting up and selling in small
areas. But it was a profitable deal for the land
agents. The total commission paid by the vendors
was £6715, and the greater part of this seems to
have passed into the hands of Mr. W. N. Willis.
Through J. C. Young and Co. he was paid
£4232 25., and by the vendors direct £1322 3s.—in
o]j s a, From the evidence given before the
Commission a Mr. Bath got £l5OO of this. He
did no work for that amount, but was introduced
into the matter to Mr. Willis by Mr. W. P. Crick.
Mr. Bath’s £l5OO was handed by him to Mr.
Crick, who bought debentures with it for him—so
it was sworn by Mr. Crick.
A Land Agent’s Income.
Judging by the evidence before the Commission
the earning power of a land agent in N.S. Wales
would pierce an operatic prima-donna with the
sharpest pangs of envy. The following sums, it
was sworn, were paid to Mr. W. N. Willis in
nine transactions investigated
Myall Creek Commission .. .. £5,554 5 0
Prom Mackav Bros., Yarraldool, etc.. 6,875 0 0
FromG. E. Trequair:
For not getting one lease .. .. ™ 0 0
For getting one lease .. .. 1,000 0 0
From Wm. Wallace, Gillendoon .. 0 °
From H. Strahorn, Mungery West .. 2,745 0 0
From Anderson Bros., Bathurst .. 200 oO'
From A. S. Barton, Pollybrewen .. 1,000 0 0
From Edol Bros., Burrawong .. .. 6,000 0 O’
Total £23,484 5 0
It is certain
that in some
cases the re-
ceipts were
not nett. In
the Sims
affair, Mr.
Willis is al-
leged to have
complained of
another party
who had had
a share. In
the Myall
Creek trans-
action, evi-
dence showed
that £l5OO
was given to
Mr. Bat h,
seemingly for
just being
round gener-
MR. T. HASS ALL, an ex-
Minister for Lands much
mentioned during the in-
quiry.
ally. In an-
other case Mr. R. D. Meagher, land agent, shared
with Mr. Willis. It is reasonable to suppose that,
as a rule, there were some disbursements. But it
was not claimed by Mr. Willis, when giving evi-
dence, that his ordinary office expenses—staff,
stationery, advertising, etc.,-were especially
heavy. What was the difference between the land
agent’s great gross receipt and his nett, and where>
that difference was absorbed, are two of the pro-
blems which the pending inquiry has to solve.
♦
“ B.” from Maoriland
Maoriland Leg. Council is doomed to gradual disur-
tegration, Seddon having ukased that no further appoint-
ments or reappointments are to he made. The lifers-
who survive are limited to a dozen or so ; the others hold
appointments for seven years. Two members dropped
out by the passage of Time last June—Lee Smith and
Jerry Twomey-and they will not return. Smith was
a pronounced democrat, whose vote was generally cast
for public good. Twomey stood for Talk and an unre-
stricted refreshment-room. He was chiefly amusing when
most indignant, and to sit beneath his flow of spluttering
eloquence was to be literally shower-bathed, if not edu-
cated. He will be missed, but not mourned.


Australia and its Neighbours.
Each Dot represents a Million of Population.
By E. W. Cole.
•A* A #
® 'A'.f-
-• • # <
•• • •
•• • «
• • # # • • • #
•• •# • • « ♦ •
V • • t •
0 9 • • •••••
••••••• • ••
• • • 9 9 0# • •
••• • A
• • •••*••.
• W • *
•s • •
• # • •
•• • •
• •
M
•• • *
• •• <
• • ••
& .
• • m
• # • # # • #
• • • • •
• •
® ® ® ■ #
• • •
• •
India proper is about half the size of Australia,
contains 300 millions of people, who are still in-
creasing, and are only 14 days’ steaming from
Australia.
China proper is about half the size ot Austiaaa,
contains 400 millions of people, who are still in-
creasing, and are only 14 days’ steaming from
Australia.
Japan is about one-
eighteenth the size of
Australia, and contains
46 millions of people,
who are still increas-
ing, and are only 16
days’ steaming from
Australia.
Java is about one-
sixtieth the size of
Australia, contains 30
millions of people, who
are still increasing, and
are only 3’ or 4 days’
steaming from our un-
occupied tropical Aus-
tralia.
Australia, about the same area as India and China combined, contains on y 4 millions ot people.
As shown above, 776 millions of people, or nearly half
the population of the whole world, live in China
proper, India proper, Japan, and Java, on an area very little
larger than the continent of Australia, and all within a few days
steaming of our unoccupied territory, and they are increasing
at an enormous rate. China within the last twenty years has
probably increased her population by 20 millions or more;
India has increased 20 millions; Japan 9 millions and Java
10 millions—probably about 60 millions altogether, while the
continent of Australia has only increased her population by
about 1£ million.
The little island of Java, within 3 or 4 days’ steaming of our
unoccupied tropical territory, has been particularly prolific in
her increase of population right along. A hundred years ago
Australia had a population of about ten thousand, located
principally in Sydney ; Java then had a population of about 4
millions, The Australian population has not reached 4 millions,
while that of Java has reached 30 millions—an increase more
than 6 times that of all the Australian colonies during the
hundred years, although the continent of Australia is 60 times
as large as Java.
Now we Australians have to look this question, with all its
hearings, straight in the face, and act as the best wisdom dictates.
But one thing is clear, the ideal of a “ White Australia ” is
impossible of realization.
The overflowing population of Europe will not emigrate to
the Australian tropics while they have the vast continent of
the United States and Canada so near to them; but the over-
flowing population of our coloured neighbours will emigrate
to these tropics, and, as this must be, it is best that they should
come and live under our advanced and progressive supervision
and co-operation.
If I were king of Australia, with absolute power, and things all round
stood just as they do now, I think that I would invite a million Chinese,
a million Japanese, a million Javanese, a million Hindoos, and some other
coloured people, and all the white men who choose to come, into the
tropical half of Australia, to grow cotton, rice, sugar, coffee, tea, cocoa,
and all other kinds of tropical produce. My reason for inviting many
coloured races instead of a chosen one would be to prevent an objection-
able clannish or national feeling growing up, and becoming too strong for
the public welfare. I , would insist that the immigrants should assist the
Commonwealth of which they would form a part, and live peacefully
under our civilization, institutions, and laws , and that all their childien,
and themselves as much Us possible, should receive the education and
speak the common language of the land; in fact, without prejudice or clan-
nishness of any kind, become honest citizens of the great Commonwealth of
Australia. The white man at present is in possession of tropical Australia,
and by his education, experience, and superior managing powers may for
a long time control and superintend tropical operations. Yet he cannot
work in the tropics, while the acclimatized sun-coloured man can. Mr.
McDonald, an editor of Hong Kong, said to me, « When I lived in Mel-
bourne and Sydney I was a red-hot White Australian, but I am one no
longer for I can see that no white man does nor can work in the tropics.’
'Quite true; he can superintend, but not work. Besides, the tropics are very
detrimental to the white man’s family; of this hundreds of instances could
ibe cited I asked a very delicate lady of Rockhampton how the females
•generally stood the climate. ' Stretching out her arms she feelingly said,
« Look at me ; I am a specimen of its effects! ”
Mr. Robert McMillan, in the Stock and Station Journal, says—"A man
may fairly hold his own in tropical Australia, but his wife becomes a
wreck,” and, of course her children.
Mr. G. B. Shawe, writing in the Argus, says—” I have lived 40 years in
the tropics, and know that the white man cannot the land
' He can guide, direct, supervise, and profit by it when worked by coloured
labour * A third generation of pure whites in the tropics is a feeble rarity,
unknown; how, then, is .he white man go.ng .o colon.se
tropical Australia ? ’ ,
Respecting the relative value of the Chinese. Japanese Javanese, and
Hindoos;: they a« a.Lescallen. workers, bn. I .think the Chmese stand
first. When in China I was advised to see the Rev. Dr. Allen, of Shang-
hai, as one who had had 40 years of active and continued intercourse with
the Chinese. I asked him what was his opinion of them. His answer
was—" I have a very good opinion of the Chinese ; they are very clever
and industrious; whatever I have got to do a Chinaman will take it out of
my hands and do it better. The Americans make a great mistake when
they shut the Chinese out of the Philippines ; they would teach those
Filipinos how to work. The Chinese are the work race of
the world.”
The following is concisely quoted from well-known writers on China :
The Rev. A. H. Smith dwells on “ the cheerful labour of the Chinese
and their unmatched industry.”
Mr. R. Colquhoun says— “ His predominant quality, that which marks the
Chinese as a race, whether at home or abroad, is beyond doubt his industry. He
has always a passion for labour.”
Sir George Goldie, speaking at a public function in London a short time
ago, referring to the employment of the Chinese by the North Borneo
Company, said— “l have always held that the only satisfactory way of developing
a tropical country is to import Chinese labour. He is a fine instrument of labour.”
Sir Frank Swettenham, Governor of the Straits Settlements, in respond-
ing to a toast in London (in December, 1903), said—Last year 200,000
Chinese entered the Straits Settlements. I would be glad to see more of them.”
The Chinese are greatly valued in Mexico as workers. President Diaz
lately said to a Chinese ambassador — “We heartily welcome
them. They are workers, and their industry, frugality, and ability
are valuable in building up the country.” — New York Evening Post.
Mr. Harold E. Gorst, in his “ China” (1899). says—" There is not an
authority—from the globe-trotter who has spent a few days at a treaty
port, to the missionary who is intimately acquainted with life in the in-
terior —who has not borne testimony to the marvellous perseve-
rance and unflagging industry of the working classes in China.”
Mr. Alexis Krausse says—" He possesses the faculty of application in a
degree rarely found among other nations. He is the most indus-
trious worker in the world.”
Another writer says—" The Chinese countryman cultivates his little
patch of ground most diligently, and is a far more thrifty husbandman
than is the average English peasant The Chinaman is the
most diligent labourer of the whole world.”
And another says—“ Wherever a Chinaman can get a foot of ground
and a quart of water he will make something grow.”
Some say, " Better let tropical
Australia remain a desert than de-
velop it with coloured labour but
from a somewhat selfish point of view
I would say, "No!" South Africa
is importing multitudes of Chinese to
work its low grade but almost in-
exhaustible gold mines. These
grand workers will make South
Africa boom, and multitudes of our
young men will be drawn thither by-
higli wages. Now, we have got in*
our enormous tropical territory,
perpetual asset worth more than all.
the South African gold mines. Im-
mense areas of our «ast tropical ter-
ritory are very fertile and capable ofi
growing enormous quantities of pro-
duce. Experts tell us that we have ;
the largest cotton growing area in the worlds
and that the cotton grown is already the ?
best in the world; that if properly cul-
tivated its ) early value would sooni
exceed that of all the wool and gold!
and corn and meat and butter put
together; and the sale for it is certain,,
as everybody throughout the world!
wears cotton, there is an increasing:
demand, and the cotton-growing area*
is limited.
The final question arises, can we-
do as we like with the tropical half of
Australia. I answer NO, and YES.
If we do not effectually occupy it, in
time we shall lose it by the overflow
of coloured populations from the con-
gested countries to the north of uf,
as shown in these striking diagrams,
and necessity will give them the right
to overflow into such practically un-
occupied territory. It may be said
‘‘We will not allow them but these
coloured nations are composed of
men like ourselves, and are
awakening. Japan has rapidly awak-
ened, and China, under various in-
fluences, is fast awakening, and will
soon be a mighty power. Who would
have thought fifty years ago that little
brown Japan would have sprung for-
ward almost at a bound and faced the
mighty power of Russia, destroyed
her powerful fleets, and in a year’s
siege, by sheer good generalship and
extreme bravery, have captured the
great stronghold and taken its 50,000
brave defenders prisoners ? And they
still have vast, well-disciplined armies
facing the vast armies of Russia in
Manchuria, and these multitudes of
brave, yet humane, soldiers show no
sign of flinching. Portions of their
well-appointed navy have visited our
principal cities, and they know our
pride and the weaknesses of our de-
fences. Marquis Ito, their strong
prime mover, when speaking of our
“White Australia" Act, made the
following statement to me, which
statement on this particular subject
he verified in writing next day
through his late private secretary,
probably in case he might be mis-
understood down in Australia:—
September 16th, 1903.
" Dear Mr. Cole, — With regard to
the statement by Marquis Ito on
Australia, to avoid all possible mis-
t kes permit me to write down the
. hole statement as corrected by His
[Excellency. It should run thus:—‘l
believe the Australians make a big
mistake in closing their doors against
the people of this country. They
might possibly discover their error should
any national calamity, such for instance
as an invasion by a foreign enemy, give
Japan an opportunity to prove her friend-
ship to them by coming to tlieir rescue
with an army and fleet. For the present
it seems to me that they suffer from
a plethora of politicians engrossed in
local matters. A little extension of
their vision beyond the confines of
their territory will not do them harm."
The leading statesman in Japan,
and constructor of its constitution
could see no difficulty in a Japanese
fleet and army coming to help the
Australians in case of need ; yet that
same fleet and army might come to
attack the Australians if Japan re-
quired it. Some of us talk of our
fortifications at the entrances of our
harbours at Sydney and Melbourne 1
Why, the Japanese could, if they
chose, land 100,000 men a few miles
from each of those cities and march
into them : and what could we do ?
Now, this insulting of nations like
Japan, China, and others who, per-
haps, are not so advanced but in
other respects are as good as we are,
is unfair, unwise, risky, and alto-
gether inexcusable, and a great many
Australians are against it.
To the question previously put,
Can we do as we like with the tropi-
cal half of Australia ? I answer, YES.
But to hold the destinies of Australia
in our own hands, we must be just
and civil to other nations, thereby
making friends and preventing bad
blood ; and should invite all kinds of
good, honest, industrious immigrants
to develop such tropical regions,
without distinction of country, colour,
caste, or creed. This would best
make for our peace and the peace of
the world.
—-Advt.


RBKSE4J
If your stomach is weak and you
are suffering from indigestion, don’t
sacrifice your health and comfort.
Eat all the wholesome food you
want. Then take one of
DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES
n 1 T OBEgg—■!—
after each meal. They digest your
food and thus nourish and build you
up, while the stomach is recovering
its natural tone. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
If unable to obtain
locally will be posted
upon receipt of price
2s. 6d , by—
Sheldon Druo Co.i
15 O’Connell St.,
Sydney,
>.2
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURES EXHIBITION.
Conducted by the A.N.A., with the 00-operation of the Chamber of Manufacture*,
To Popularise and Encourage the Use and Sale of AUSTRALIAN-
MADE GOODS and PRODUCTS .
AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS, Moore Park.
To be opened in DECEMBER, 1905.
For particulars of Space, &0., apply to Thi Organising
Secretary, 134 Pitt-street, Sydney. Tel. 1499.
Intending Exhibitors should make early application.
Missing Friends.
KEANE, THOMAS. —Last seen at Mary-
borough, Queensland, 10 years ago. Sup-
posed to have gone Sydney and worked with a
contractor named Neville. Thought to have been
in Plague Hospital, Sydney, in year 1900. Father,
Michael Keane, of Derould, Kilnamona, Co. Clare,
Ireland, inquiring. Anybody knowing whereabouts
or evidence of death please communicate with
GAY AN DUFFY & KING, Solicitors, National
Trustee Building, 125 Queen-street, Melbourne.
WILL Anyone Knowing Whereabouts of
GEORGE SOMERVILLE NORRIS, of
Baltimore, U.S. America, and later of Mildura,
Vic., communicate with HENRY WALKER,
c/o. G. G. Cole, Esq., Somerville, Victoria.
FIRST PRIZE
IN THE....
8-hour^
ART UNION.
WHO WANTB IT?
£5OO FOR Is.
SECOND PRIZE, value JBIOO
THIRD „ „ JESO
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 28th.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Early.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
MR. ANDREW MACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, in
a Plav Written Expressly for him, entitled,
TOM MOORE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 15, THE WAY TO KENMARE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL
H E A T R E ROYAL, S Y D N E Y.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the GILBERT AND SULLIVAN
OPERA SEASON,
and
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of Mr. J. 0. Williamson’s
REPERTOIRE ’ COMPANY.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of the Evergreen Japanese Comic Opera,
THE MIKADO.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s. PRICES —ss, 3s, 2s and Is.
R ITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
LAST 2 NIGHTS, LAST 2 NIGHTS,
NAUGHTY NANCY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 15 (for Six Nights Only),
FUN ON THE BRIaJOL.
SATURDAY, JULY 22, FIRST PRODUCTION of
THE EARL AND THE GIRL.
m’ MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Prices, Box Plan and Day SaleS as Usual,
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manager .. Mr. F. M. CLARK.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
FRANK M. CLARK’S NEW FOLLY CO.
The Brightest and Most Refined Vaudeville Show in
the Commonwealth.
Tremendous Reception of the Unique First Part,
OUR FOOTBALLERS.
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling's.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Emphatic Success of MR. LEO. DRYDEN.
MR. FRANX LEON.
For Positively Two Weeks Only, the Great English
Ventriloquist, MR. FRED. W. WILLIS.
Great Success of Master BOBBIE WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE DUDLEIGH. Also, Mr. FRED. BLUETT.
HARRY ROCHFORT, HARRY HART, FRANK YORKE.
MDLLE. ALICE GUERRA, Miss MAUD BEATTY.
Mr. IRVING SAYLES, Mr. NAT TRAVERS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
GEO. FULLER GOLDEN, Society % Entertainer.
CHAS. DIAMOND. MISS BEATRICE, Expert Musicians.
HILDA LANE, Soprano Vocalist.
JAMES HARVEY, Comedian and Dancer.
STAVE, Indian Electrical Comedy Artist.
THE GOTHAMS, Quaint Singing Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
BLAiVD HOLT and his Popular Combination of
Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in the Famous
Drury Lane Melo-Farce,
THE FLOOD TIDE.
B 3 PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan's.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
pRINCEBS’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS of
THE BROUGH-FLEMMINC COMEDY COMPANY
IN
BEAUTY AND THE BARGE
For the First Time in Australasia.
ROBERT BROUGH as CAPTAIN BARLEY.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
ALLAN HAMILTON, Manager.
|»|ER MAJESTY’B THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of ELIZABETH.
SAT. NEXT, JULY 15, the Eminent Tragedienne,
BXiaa STanoe O’CToil,
INQOMAR,
MISS NANCE O’NliL ai PARTHENIA.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’*. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
A couple of recent Victorian gold-dredging
shows give figures indicative of the cheapness of this class
of work. Junction dredge, working at Porepunkah,s
Bright, has ground of nice depth, and without much tim-
ber and with little clay. In six months it handled 158,100
cubic yards, yielding an average of 2'42gr., and earned
£1839 profits, or at the rate of 42’27 per cent, per annum
on a capital of £8702. Weekly expenses, including rent
and maintenance, £65. Co. has just got for £2OOO
another 100 acres, and at the above rate it can pay off the
cost of this ground in practically six months, w'hile it adds
10 years’ work for a new dredge to its claim. At Cres-
wick the Enterprise dredge has had very tight, clayey
ground to treat. Yet it has dealt in six months with
93,170 cub. yds., from which an average of 2-2 gr. per cub.
yd. was obtained. Costs have approached £6O per week,
but the co. was able to pay three divs. of 2s. per share on
a capital of £4500 and carry forward £3OO cash. When
the stiff ground in which the dredge has had to work is
remembered, this is a good record.
* * • *
Stand aside and admire the work of those who
were responsible for the recent issue of 4000 reserve
shares in the Granya Co. (Vic.). It was given out
that the cash realised from the sale would be ample for all
purposes—and that, in fact, was the reason the issue went
off. Yet now the capital of the co. has had to be increased
from 10s. to 16s. per share within a very short time of
the new issue. No wonder there has been kicking.
*-* * *
The market fillip given to South German,
Maldon (Vic.), had a little more than the usual Maldon
stability' behind it. Yet, after all, it hasn’t much back-
bone. About 3ft. of stone is showing at 1750 ft., and a bit
of a seam carrying a few traces of gold came in, and then
as quickly cut out again. On this thousands of shares
changed hands. It is the old reputation of the mine that
lifted values, not the merits of the development. The
evidence at 2100 ft. certainly does hot entitle shareholders
to look for much gold on the present strike.
* * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans appears to be going
from bad to worse. Last three crusliings have panned
out, 26s 6d., 30s. 5d., and 14s. 4d. per ton, and, as costs
tot up about 355., loss per ton has been, say, Bs. 6d.,
4s. 7d., and 20s. Bd., or, monthly, £lOOO, £9OO, and £B6OO.
Local director A. E. Morgans some nine months ago said
everything would be fixed all right, and, within a year,
mill would be doubled to 120 head of heavy stamps. At
that time ore averaged nearly 10dwt., and yet there was
a loss ; and things are much worse now instead of being
better.
•,* • •
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie, has recently
undergone a complete change of staff. Some of the
officials have been with 8., M. and Co. for half-a-dozen
years, and have merely been transferred to others of their
mines. It is significant that nearly all gold in monthly
returns comes from Oroya north block, and the whole
of rich shoot is depleted except some 40ft. at extreme
north of lease. If this is carefully nursed present returns
maybe maintained for 2J years, but if “ fireworks ” are
indulged in, the lot could be depleted in six months.
Entire charge of management may mean entire change of
policy, and then it will be time to get in out of the wet. Co.
now publishes monthly bullion figures, which have been:—
December, 19620 z. ; January, 44180 z. ; February, 3000 oz. ;
March, 40340 z. ; April, 64180 z. ; May, 63160 z, Mine is now
in charge of Shipman, who has successively rushed the
stone out of Cosmopolitan, Golden Horseshoe, and Lake
View Consols.
* * » •
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), still
seenis to be the shuttlecock of Adelaide market manipu-
lators; j Since April price of scrip has jumped like a kan-
garoo. On May 16 price was about 9d. ; then manager
cabled —“ Shall advise result of sampling in few days.”
On May 26 price rose to 18d., on a report that assays
averaged 26dwt. ; next day it fell back to 9d. on manager
Merry advising that “check assays gave 2Jdwt. only.”
Since then contradictory reports have been published till
investors don’t know where they are. Murchison paper
naively remarks that “few shares are now held locally
except by unfortunates, who got left at the post in the
last flutter.” The official staff is large enough to eat the
mine.
» * # *
Gifiden Pole, Da vyhurst (W. A.), is now in charge
of Nat White, late shift boss, vice Harper, resigned ; and
he thoroughly understands both mine and staff. Harper
has joined the board, has been retained as consulting
engineer, and will visit mine periodically. Bob Gibson
has resigned chairmanship, and Jonathan Bray has taken
his place. Prospects of co. still continue good, and, as
tailings plant will start before long, profits should be in-
creased to £ll,OOO or £12,000 monthly, and divs. to Is.
If this could be guaranteed, scrip is cheapest thing on
market; but, unfortunately, developments are not far
enough ahead of mill to satisfy exacting investors. As
previously pointed out, reef is very erratic in its course,
and quartz reefs in W.A. have a bad habit of either peter-
ing out or becoming impoverished at comparatively
shallow depths. This being so, it behoves directors to go
in for development on a large scale, instead of dividing
profits up to the hilt.
* * * •
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has at last got its re-
modelled treatment plant started and running satisfac-
torily. It is a vast improvement on previous plant, and
economy has been Carefully studied. Everything is auto-
matic from time ore is fiiled into 30cwt. trucks in mine
till residues are dumped. After passing through a Blake-
Marsden type of breaker, built locally by Silverthorne and
Adair, belt conveyors carry ore to three No. 8 Krupp
mills. From them it passes on to eight Merton furnaces,
and the roasted product goes to grinding and amalgamat-
ing pans. Plant is expected to treat 4500 to 5000 tons
monthly, and costs are not expected to be more than 255.
to 275. 6d. a ton. Saveable value of gold in ore is about
355. to 375. 6d., so there should be a profit of about
10s. a ton. Underground workings have been
overhauled, much development work done, and ore
reserves are well over 100,000 tons. Mine is in capable
hands of John Morgan, formerly of Burbank’s Birthday
Gift and previously of Norseman G.M.
* • * •
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, looks as if it had perman-
ently joined div.-paying list. Although ore is worth onty
about 335. a ton, co, is earning a profit of nearly 10s., or
about £2OOO monthly. Co. is in 130,000 shares, outstand-
ing 9000 having been taken over by Lionel Robinson and
Co., who had them under option. There is some talk of
increasing treatment plant to a 50-head mill, but this is
premature, and is unlikely to be settled until annual
meeting in September. If any extension is decided upon,
developments would have to be pushed ahead to cope
with increased output of 7000 tons monthly. At present,
mine is developed down to 750 ft., and lodes are very wide
though shoots are short. As South Kalgurli was driving
north on ore worth over loz. at 700 ft. level, it was thought
Hainault would get the shoot, but unfortunately it has
petered out before reaching Hainault boundary.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef, Kalgoorlie, has been recon-
structed, the whole 260,000 shares being successfully
placed. First call of 6d. brought in £6500, but up to
Dec. 31 expenses had reduced this to £3BOO. Diamond
drill boring has disclosed better values at depth, and it
has been decided to sink shaft below 1400 ft. This will
bring monthly expenditure to nearly £lOOO, so that calls
will have to be made to keep things jigging. Machinery
has been overhauled and put in order, and e/erything
about mine is in good working condition.
• • *
Vivien, Lawlers (W.A.), has had a fairly good
year, the 10-head mill treating 16,916 tons for 21,0170 z.,
worth £43,571. There was a net profit of £19,087, but
most of this was written off mine development and depre-
ciation, leaving £3296 to carry forward. Only three levels
have been explored, and reserves, totting up 51,800 tons
worth lldwt., have been opened up. Though ore is low
grade, pay shoot is one of longest on fields, and is quite
sufficient to make a mine, if it holds down. Co. is in
■90,000 shares, of which 76,000 are issued, and 14,000 held
in reserve. Co. will have to be equipped with an up-to-
date plant, and capital therefore increased, before it can
be put on sound basis.
Ore-smelting for the public is much like backing
pony-doubles. You mostly strike a blank in either case,
and if you do make a “pot ” it is mostly by making some-
body else swear. The W.A. Smelting Co. had a disastrous
time. It was formed in ’97. It reconstructed in ’9B, and
then snuffed out. Fremantle Smelter, Ltd., which fol-
lowed, had one reconstruction ; but now it has managed
to strike a double—B9 per oent. div. and 33J per cent,
bonus. Capital, however, is only £75,000 against eld oo.’e
£350,000; of the latter, Breokman’s crowd, which pro-
moted the concern, took £270,000 in shares besides con-
siderable cash. Present co., instead of providing addi-
tional plant out of revenue, asks shareholders to use their
divs. to take up another 25,000 shares at par ; this is
merely helping the old troubles back again. Besides the
30 per cent. div. and 33J per cent, bonus, co. had paid 4s.
(20 per cent.) during the year ; total, per cent., which
is almost large enough to make the co.’s customers feel
annoyed. And the turnover was comparatively small-
-37,450 tons of ore and 1288 tons of slag, for 313,8380 z.
silver, 119,7530 z. gold, and 4976 tons lead, worth, say,
£600,000. Profit was £63,576, or 10'6 per cent, of the
gross value of the product. What does Golden Horseshoe,
which provided about half the ore, think about that?
* * * *
To those who are acquainted with the Mount
Cameron district (Tas.), the statement that Ah Chow and
the white workers who preceded him left a tin-bearing
flat in the locality unprospected, will be received with a
sniff. Yet this is the basis of a new Melbourne
float, called the Pioneer Consols Tin Prospecting
Association. Apart from that little circumstance,
it seems incredible that a block of land, towards
which, according to Mr. Chas. Hunt, who inspected
the ground, the Pioneer lead is trending, should have
been allowed to lie untested. Surprise on this point
becomes deeper, when it is hinted that the Brothers
Home lead may also “ pass through in this direction ” !
Vendors and promoters, out of an issue of 1200 shares
at £2 each, took only 600 shares and £2OO cash. Modest
to the end 1
* * * *
Paul Northey, with a beam on his face as broad
as the Block, turned up in Melbourne from the Briseis
Extended (Tas.) the other day. It was not hard to trace
the origin of that smile. Experts who condemned the
Briseis Extended had, to Paul’s mind, been beaten as
badly as they were at Arltunga, after they had boomed
that wild-cat. Then there was a report as neat and as
epigrammatic on the mine as that with which Paul helped
to knock out the Central Australian boom. The public
soon bumped up share values, with, perhaps, a kindly
Stock Exchange helping hand at the critical moment,
and they moved a tenner. There was reason in Northey’s
smile—reason and profit, too.
* * * *
Comet (Tas. ) is a co. begotten of the boom days,
and never able to get over the disaster of its birth. Its
directors are of the old port-wine type, solid and comfort-
able, and believed to be a little slow in the up-take. That
they were not quite such fools as they looked was shown
by their refusal to sell the mine outright awhile back,
although they agreed to give it over to tributors. Helped
by a favorable market, their tribute has put them in
credit about £7OO. It is not much, but when past calls
are reckoned up, that little is a lot better than nothing.
* * * *
In Boston (U.S. A.), an obvious want is now met
by an American Birth Insurance Co., officered entirely by
women, for women. Monthly premium, 3dol. (12s. 6d.) ;
bonus, or reward, on birth of a living child, SOOdol. (£63);
to subscribers of over three years’ standing, 400dol. (£B4).
The co. protects itself in two ways. You mustn’t
bet on a oertainty ; that is, 10 payments must have
been made before the Event comes off. Also, you
mustn’t show too much greed as a cash-earner;
that is, 18 months must elapse between Events.
Still, even with these saving olauses, it looks as though
the co. will soon be in difficulties. In Australia, any-
how, the probability of a 19-year-old bride rewarding her
lord within two years of marriage is V 33 per 1000 ; so that
if every 19-year-old bride took out a policy a month be-
fore marriage, the first 1000 would in two years pay in
£15,000, while the office would be called upon to pay
out £46,179. Certainly that is putting things in the
most cheerless light for the co. But even if a bride of 23
paid in regularly for 27 years, the Australian figures show
that, while she would pay in £202 10s., she would call for
£283 ; and that looks just about as cheerless as the other
way of considering the co.’s prospects. Which is a pity,
because the world badly wants some sort of new wedding-
present, and a policy in Baby Insurance, Limited, seemc-d
to about fill the bill.
The M.L. Government has issued the first
charter to a farmers’ mutual insurance co., in Taranaki.
But what Taranaki farmers want with a local co-operative
concern, when a national co-operative concern in the
shape of the State Fire Insurance Department is available,
isn’t clear.
* * * *
A small block of land in the populated part of
Frankston (Melb.) was sold the other day for £34. This
same block, together with two small shops (which after-
wards sold for £7O), was valued at £l4OO in the lunatic
heyday of Melbourne’s land boom, and a sum of £7OO was
actually loaned upon it. Land-boom values were not
altogether confined to paper. Banks, investment com-
panies and fatuous individuals gave an air of reality to
the boom values by making 50 per cent, advances on them.
« * ♦ *
Malvern (Vic.) Town Council has been holding
a long series of violent arguments as to whether it should
insure its municipal property with the Royal Insurance
Co. (of England) or stick to the London and Lancashire
Co. (of England). There are at least four solvent fire insur-
ance companies with their headquarters in Melbourne —the
Colonial Mutual, Australian Alliance, Victoria, and Vic-
toria General—but the idea, of offering one of them the
business hasn’t been mentioned. By the way, will some-
body please find out how much of its business the Sydney
City Council gives to Australian co.’s?
AT POVERTY POINT.
Old mummer Geo. Buller, actor, monologuer, manager,
who gave it all up a little while ago to grow eggs, has
heard the footlights call again, and is going monologuing
through the Islands. And, as everyone who has heard
Buller monologue will admit, this is a rare streak of luck
for the Islands.
Died last week, Robert Fitzgerald, an old-time
opera singer. He was recognised as one of the best
choristers in Australia, and in that capacity, and as a
player of small parts, he was for many years a member of
Williamson’s opera companies. He also played important
leading characters in his time, with Simonsen and other
managers.
A Gentleman One, at Maidenhead, Eng. (his name
is Fossick), charged with misappropriating £13,000
of a client’s money, states that he lent it to Mrs.
Brown-Potter what time the lady was abiding in
the district. The troubled solicitor, who at latest
dates was under remand, without the option of bail,
doesn’t profess to have got any security for the alleged
loan, although he says that Mrs. Potter promised
him a mortgage, but he declares that he can produce
some letters from her referring to the transaction. Mrs.
P. flatly denies the man’s story, which, anyhow, is not a
satisfactory answer to the charge against him. But the
narrative bears upon the theatrical question as to
whether the actress did or didn’t lose an awful lot of
money at the Savoy Theatre six months ago, when she
produced an “ emotional-costume play,” wherein her
changing moods were expensively expressed by the tints,
styles and trimmings of the clothes she wore.
The chiselled features of a limelight charmer, now the
centre of a blaze of glory in an Australian theatre,
formerly adorned the chorus ranks of a manager who
sustained a nasty Slap a year or two ago, and retrenched
salaries accordingly. On receiving notice of reduction
the statuesque beauty remarked, “ Why, Mr. Blankdash,
my figure alone would bring me much more than that.”
Recent events seem to justify the lady’s belief.
The Brescians, who give a musical entertainment in
conjunction with West’s Diving Pictures, have been doing
so remarkably well in Maoriland that their Australian
dates are further postponed. Seddonland is seemingly
the richest country in the world for a show which is not
of the ordinary sinful “ theatrical ” character, but bears
the “ hall ’’-mark of respectability. Mel. B. Spurr is said
to have earned £5OO a week for his lucky manager, Herbert
Flemming, in some of the Maoriland towns.
The Slapoffskis have struck more trouble, in U.S.A. this
time. Madame Slap.’s yarn is of the twopenny “ shocker ”
type, as the ’Murkan papers tell it. "At Auckland they
met M. B. Curtis, and Madame signed a contract on
shares. She sang for 19 weeks ; then Curtis said she was
400 dollars in his debt, and, as she reckoned it up that he
was 7000 dollars in hers, she broke away. But the thrill of
the yarn is that, though Slap, and his wife wrote regu-
larly, they never got one another’s letters. Meantime
Madame Slap, was informed that Slap, had taken up with
strange idols, and Madame would know him no more.
Slap., getting alarmed at absence of news, chased over to
the States, hunted up Curtis, and was told horrible stories
about Mrs. Slap. When the two did meet, and things
were sorted out, they found Curtis holding threatened
writs over them, and alleging that' his own share was to
be a gross half, while Madame’s half was to be less
expenses. The Slaps then decided to repudiate the con-
tract (Madame had signed a new one in ’Frisco, to make
things binding), and prepare to fight. Curtis is better
known as “ Sam’l o’ Posen ” ; he played that part for about
a million nights, made, it is said, a million dollars by it,
and then somehow got foul of the law on a capital charge,
and most of his pile went in proving that he wasn’t
guilty.
“Melb.”: Miss O’Neil is amazingly like Zucchero’s
portrait of Elizabeth. Five years ago she was more like
sanguinary Mary. Ristori’s name was won in Italy and
France, where her unlikely Queen Bess did not matter.
In Australia she was rather squab and. washerwomany.
Nance must have been going through Turkish baths, or
something, like a jockey going to waste, and yet she does
not distress you with any suggestion of illness, like Mrs.
Osborne. The fourth act of Giacometti’s “Elizabeth” is
mainly concerned with Shakspeare’s play of “Henry
VIII.” Bacon takes an extraordinary interest in it, and
it is a wonder the dramatist did not think of forestalling
Ignatius Donnelly. Modern criticasters hold that
Fletcher wrote “Henry VIII.” Auguste Maquet claimed
to have written “Monte Christo.” Yet Fetcher and
Maquet could not enact theShakspeare or Dumas on their
own.
THE MISSING MANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heermann, closely cropped of hair,
Is your lack of love-locks fair?
Hither most musicians come
Maned like mournfed Absalom.
But amongst us you have slipped,
Scantly boomed and trimly clipped ;
You have come devoid of pose,
Only music giving those
Who are used to worship Hair.
Think you, Heermann, is it fair ?
VIC.
O’FIPP.


Brisbane Daily Mail, anticipating a
Federal election, suggests six names for Repre-
sentatives, all Philpites. Two (Dalrymple and
Foxton) were cast forth by the State electors;
two (Philp and Macartney) just got back. The
others are Leahy, member by accident for Bulloo,
and “ Pompom ” Forrest, who till lately con-
trolled the Queensland interests of the Colonial
Sugar Co., which loves the Kanaka and his simple
ways. And editor Buzacott professes to lead
public opinion!
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a brand of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates- Restores the Colour to Carpets-
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
BLINDFOLD a man or a woman and they lose confidence in themselves. They are unable to discernwheretheir
feAmav tread Their siens are slow, uncertain. Their hands are raised to ward off ™apnary
blows which threaten them *Sick men or women are often like a person blindfolded. ma y ®
confidence. They cannot tell where their steps may lead They turn now to this side and now to the other
uncertainty of doubt. They know they are ill, and that robs them of their courage. Health-
Men in this condition, who are tired of spending money m a vain endeavorto obtain^relief tom _
ruining Diseases, should, after reading this advt., adopt our treatment. We could not convert our lenow
men were we to take money from a patient whom we did not benefit or c “ re - not curable when his
from a sick person unless he is able to benefit The patient’s money should be r .f results you
health is at stake. When you consult us you know oui'Proposition‘ we|dc .not yOU
get your money back. Remember, there are FOUR LEGALLY-QUALIFIED MEDICAL EXPERTS assooiatea wn
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and
SURGICAL INSTITUTES,
ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY, and at Melbourne.
Each Specialist may be consulted personally and their combined opinions obtained. These will be given FREE.
Remarks on Men’s Diseases
And Operations by the Freeman &
Wallace StafF of Physicians
ant S Surgeons.
There is no branch of medicine in which abso-
lute keenness of diagnosis and a thorough under-
standing of every detail of a case is so essential
as in the treatment of diseases of the Genito-
urinary Organs.
* * * * * *
It is now over 25 years since the Specialists of
the Freeman & Wallace Institute initiated their
particular speciality—Diseases in Men—and in
that time they have operated in Australia alone
on over 8000 cases of Varicocele and Rupture.
Many other operations they enumerate, those for
Stone in the Bladder, with or without crushing ;
operations for Oancerous and other diseases of
the Organs ; removal of Stone in the Kidneys ;
Abscess with one or both Organs, removal of the
Nerve for persistent and incurable Neuralgia of
the Gland ; and many other difficult and dan-
gerous feats of Genito-Urinary Surgery.
Their treatment as regards Varicocele by Pain-
less, Non-cutting, Non-contracting and Bloodless
operation is generally approved of, and with that
end in view they have carefully collected and
tabulated statistics of operations of a large
number of operations of this nature.
They have been operating successfully for
Double and Single, simple and extremely compli-
cated cases of Varicocele, and can say with truth
they have seldom failed to cure a case however
bad or for how long a time it had existed.
They have operated on patients from the age
of six to the age of 84 years, in some cases where
the disease has existed for 40 years.
As a Medical Institute they challenge any Firm
in the world to show so large a number of cases,
or such an unbroken line of successes.
******
Some Questions Asked.— For the benefit of
some patients who keep asking questions, the
Specialists wish to say that there is no. cutting or
Blood Poisoning, and absolutely no pain.
The operation for Stricture or Varicocele never
injures the vital power: on the contrary, that
power is improved, wasting of parts stopped,
blood circulated through healthy channels, no
confinement in house or bed, and patient can
return home, even if distant one thousand miles,
on the following day. The result of the opera-
tion as performed by the Specialists is that the
moment the pressure of coagulated blood is
taken off the organs the small veins enlarge,
regain their circulatory power, and healthy cir-
culation is assured. .
Hence new life, vigor, and strength in the
parts, after the operation for Varicocele, results.
Eight Prostatic & Bladder Facts
From Tabulated Records of
the Institute’s Staffs.
WHERE THE MEDICAL PROFESSION ERR.
1. —Eighty per cent, of all cases of Enlargement
of the Prostrate Gland are not due to
Fibrous Enlargement, but to Congestive
Swelling.
2. —Every case of Congestive Enlargement is
ourable if properly treated by Specialists
in the disease.
3. —Gutting operations on the Prostate are never
called for in Congestive Enlargement,
but are always dangerous in old men.
4. —ln Chronic Hypertrophy, Urinary and Bladder
Disorders, symptoms are unchanged. The
symptoms increase and decrease according
to causes.
5. In sixty.elght per cent, of all cases of Con-
gestive Enlargement, and of Chronic
Inflammation of the Bladder (Cystitis),
there exists a stricture of large calibre,
causing reflex irritation and continuous
trouble.
6. —A stricture of large calibre is one that causes
many bad reflex symptoms, and is one
that is professionally known as “ not
tight,” as shown in the small stricture.
7. —A patient with an enlarged Prostate or Stric-
ture of large calibre may medicate him-
self, but will never be oured.
8. Nine doctors out of ten with Httle experience
class all enlargement ef the Prostate
as Chronic Hypertrophy, and Incurable
without operation. Thousands of patients
who might have been cured have thus
been sacrificed.
* * • *
TERMB.— The Specialists’ terms for consultation
by mail or in person is FREE, and
confidential. This does not include an
examination by the Physician-in-Ohief
with the Urethroscope, Endescope, or
Cystoscope (or Illumination of the Blad-
der) when necessary. After a thorough
examination, they know exactly what
the trouble is, and can tell exactly what
is necessary to effect a permanent and
lasting cure. The Specialists know the
diseases of men like a child knows its
alphabet or the pages of an open book.
PAINLESS. —All examinations of any kind of a
minor degree are rendered bloodless,
painless, and free from complications by
the use of soothing medications known to
the Specialistic Staff.
Condensed Report of Operat'on
for Ulcer in Bladder.
Performed by Dr. R. WALLACE and his Staff
upon Mr. H. C. .
(Surname furnished privately, if necessary).
This patient was a terrible sufferer, experienc-
ing all the inconveniences Inflammation of the
Bladder in its worst form would ca,use. Had been
to several doctors, receiving no relief.
Here is Dr. Wallace’s own extract
“I placed the patient on examination
table, noted following facts :
Bladder distended by urine, but no Stric-
ture. Prostate gland enlarged. Urine showed
Inflammation of Bladder and Congestion of
Kidneys, caused through stoppage, accom-
panied by agonising pain. Result of exarnin-
e tion after’searching for Stone with electric
Endescope. No stone and no gravel.
Lit up Urethral Canal, found it congested,
not diseased. Examined electrically after
washing out with clear salt solution. Every
fraction of the Mucus Membrane reflected in
mirror as plainly as if Bladder had been cut
open to the eye. Found on inner side of main
curve of Bladder Canal asmull but deep ulcer.
This was the seat of trouble. Patient under
treatment seven weeks. Medicated applica-
tion to ulcer until it healed perfectly. Blad-
der and Prostate medicated. Later internal
remedies to regulate kidney action and
sterilise urine. Five years after received an
additional testimonial to one presented on
patient’s recovery to health.”
Extract from same
“Deae D*. Wallace.— Enclosed you will
find my photograph. I think that is sufficient
testimony as to your skill and ability. lam
well and happy.
Yours faithfully,
H.C.’
Any man suffering from any form of disease of
the Urinary Organs should write personally to Dr.
Wallace and his Medical Sta,ff. All particulars
free by post. Associated with him are Four
Skilled Experts in the treatment and operation of
such forms of Deadly Diseases of Men.
a
m
m
'1(0
'Vs./S
i
v
s/
/!
t
A
f
- Sh.
‘v/w
5jQ
ss
KM
I
K
w.
\\\
M
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treat-
ment will not cure you, write to the references we publish.
Ask any of our attestants. We court the closest investiga-
tion. Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick men
living in centres far from medical men and aid. Our
Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Wallace, M.D., is registered by Aus-
tralasian, English, and American Medical Boards. All letters
are directly supervised by him, and medicines forwarded to
all parts of Australasia. All Members of Staff registered.
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts. Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute ; . _ AND AT MELBOURNE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D.. Physician-in-Chief; Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Dept, of Women.
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
• Kum »
0
' . ■W' to HFAHTS. imiiu. Ui tt»
BMdlß'fl VQOB IB lots If CBIMIIW, Ift. WBirfHitß.
Benoer’s Food has attained
its great reputation by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Among Queensland Crocodiles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AFTER seven years crocodile shooting
in Northern Queensland, I have gained a
fair knowledge of the reptile locally mis-
called “alligator.”
In Queensland, there are two species of croco-
diles : Crocodilus porosus (of the coast), and C.
Johnstonii (of the Gulf watershed), the respective
maximum lengths being 24ft. and 10ft. 1 liis coast
species is identical with the larger Indian croco-
dile, the sacred monster to which the Hindu
mothers used to throw their children.
In the pleistocene period a huge alligator
existed in the valley of the Condamine. Its fossil
bones, teeth, etc., are found there to-day, in King
and Gowrie Creeks. This creature reached a
length of 30ft. m . . ,
The crocodile first appeared in the Triassic and
Jurassic formations, its ancestors being "he
monstrous Dinosaurs, Terosaurs, etc. Of these
Atlantosaurus reached a length of 80ft.
G. Johnstonii , the small crocodile found m the
lagoons and heads of the rivers in the Gulf coun-
try, received its specific name on account of a
skull sent, in the ’7o’s, from the Herbert River,
by R. A. Johnstone, the sub-inspector of Wative
Police. Although the species grows 10ft. long,
and has formidable rows of teeth, it is regarded as
harmless, and blacks and whites bathe without
fear in the waters it inhabits. The big coast
crocodile has been seen as far south as toe Mary
River, while northward it reaches to Cape York,
and round the shores of the Gulf, and of JSoith
Australia, to some undefined limit on the coast of
Westralia. I have shot crocs, in the Burdekm,
Hinchinbrook Passage, the Tully, Mulgrave,
Barron, Daintree and M'lvor Rivers on the
east coast, and in the Ducie and the Mangrove
Rivers on the eastern shores of the Gulf of Uar-
pentaria. In the Ducie, I shot two nearly black,
and two a light yellow —probably distinct varieties.
In a saltwater inlet of Albatross Bay, in Jo. I
shot a fine specimen of the yellow variety at_4oo
yards, from the deck of a steamer, the first boat
that ever entered those waters. A small seven-
foot croc, shot by me in the Mission River was
promptly roasted and eaten by the aboriginal
crew of the whaleboat.
The flesh of the young reptile, up to seven or
pio-hh feet, is white : it tastes something between
lowl and fish, and is rather palatable once the
natural prejudice is overcome. The older ones
have a rank, musky odor not unlike that from the
cage of a lion or a tiger.
The female lays up to 80 or 100 eggs, duck size.
These eggs have a hard, rough, and dark shell,
with small holes over the whole surface. In taste
they are like turtle eggs with a peculiar odor of
their own. The female makes a nest of rotting
vegetation, leaves, grass, and small sticks, gene-
rally among tall reeds, or long grass, or dreary
mangroves; and the heat of this mass, with that
of the sun, hatches the eggs. The young go
straight into the water, and have a hard struggle
to escape small sharks, dogfish, and even their
own cannibal father, with whom the mother has
frequently to fight in defence of her brood. In
fighting they give each other terrible wounds and
now and then bite off a leg.
The crocodile haunts mangrove creeks and
peep still pools overhung by thick vegeta-
tion, and rarely go more than 60 yards from
the water. At low tide they lie on the mud
or sand banks and sleep, but as the tide rises
they proceed in search of prey, following the fish
into shallow places and narrow creeks, making
terrific rushes, and catching their prey in their
jaws or throwing them ashore with mighty sweeps
of the tail. In water they can move with in-
credible rapidity, and strike with head or tail as
quickly as a man can make a sword-cut. They
also lie near crossing places on the alert for any-
thing that may pass, and haunt spots where
animals or birds come to drink. In the stomachs
of nearly all are found a few smooth stones, from
marble to orange size, probably used as gravel is
in a bird’s gizzard. In one I got three rats, a
goanna, a mangled 41b. fish, and a lot of partly
digested quills of an echidna (porcupine ant-eater).
He must have swallowed the echidna head first,
but think of the gastric juice that dissolved such
a morsel! In another was a foreleg of a wallaby,
a platypus, two rats, and a black shag.
When waiting for prey they lie close in shore,
the legs tucked under, so that the body resembles
an old dead log, and about every quarter of an
hour they gently raise the end of the nose (on the
tip of which are the nostrils which close hermeti-
cally when under water) and take a long breath.
Then woe to the animal that comes to drink. A
lightning sweep of the jaws or tail and its fate is
Not long ago a white man was taken by a
crocodile in the Murray River, Rockingham Bay.
He was standing on a rock and was swept off,
probably by the tail, or seized by the leg and
dragged in. A few years ago an 18-year-old girl
was taken while bathing in a Northern river. The
brute bit her head clean off, and was seen going
up the creek with the headless naked body across
his mouth. He worked the body into the sand,
covered it up, and left it there. A black boy
brought it ashore.
Many men, black and white, have been taken
in the Herbert River; and we shall never know
how many unknown and unmissed men have met
death at the jaws of the crocodiles.
A rifle bullet will penetrate any part of a croco-
dile if he is sideways on, but if he is end-on the
missile will glance off his back. If left with any
life at all he will wriggle into deep water and
sink. Then he is a lost specimen for about four
days, and the odor he diffuses when he floats is
unspeakable. The most fatal mark for a bullet is
the neck. If the vertebrae are struck the creature
is completely paralysed. Otherwise I have shot
them through the heart, and lifted the top of the
skull off the brain, and yet they have glided into
deep water and disappeared. The line of the
eyes is slightly in front of the brain, which
occupies a very small space, and a bullet has been
known to cut both eyes clean out without stopping
the crocodile.
The strength of the crocodile is tremendous. I
have seen a fifteen-footer take a calf, shake him as
a dog would a rat, and then swim off with him to
the mangroves, where he would jam him among
the roots under the water until partly decom-
posed, as the reptile likes his game “ high.” A
man to a large crocodile is only as a mouse to a
cat, so far as strength or resistance is concerned.
The coast crocodile sometimes gets a consider-
able distance out to sea. Mr. Frank Jardine told
me he had seen one 30 miles from the mainland
off Cape York—possibly on the way to or from
New Guinea.
A. MESTON.


-
«»SSSfc65.«,»aKaR ■•••■■ H fci...,, . <ukm
mmm
.
■ *
•a
f
■
MllW
i, ■
m
>sJ
is
fi*
t
■
II
lilll®
I
...
:
r\ a
\
gH|
Si
v,:#kr. ;
MS
11
IS
1
lii
. *
ii s
> $ -I-.. -•
tag
H.V. McKAY
M'ANUFACTURER
Head Office: 668 Bourke St., Melb.
Sydney Office: 42 Engine St,.,
and at Adelaide.
SR
:
wm
.■’ -
K v v ■ 9- S ~ $. f*! ’,' >. m s-v,.-, m. W
'■ -
:*S
HI
I
.- V-
%"tA
m
at
m
. • ■ < . j
1 *•--"•
■
:
- .®aisas*iii!ii
■


The wily Chow is still working all the
points of the game to get into Maoriland without
paying poll-tax. Many of the muddy sinners
have lately brought wives with them, there being
no import duty on John’s “missis.’’ Nobody is
known to have seen anything of these wives since
their arrival, although the husbands have been
absorbed into the banana business ; but several
new-ehum Chinese boys have been handing out
specked oranges and things to the sturdy Im-
perialist who props up the Hempire. Presumably
the Johns who brought the alleged wives will
still honor the white girl with their affections and
bestow on her the frank, open, yellow paw of
Cathay.
V'
BAD
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if alio wed to continue, will deprive you of the power to wak.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
submit to amputation ; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don’t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisnoreasonl should. Send at once for aßox of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a ce' tain cure of
BadLegs,Housemaid’sKnee,UlceratedJoints, Carbuncles
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look for the Registered Trade Mark of the Grassho’ er
on a green label on each box. (Regi tered Copyright).
JABORIN
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6, Posted 2/9. Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, ~
Ladles’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
The Child's
Fight lor Teeth
\Y7HAT excitement, what pride, when
** the first tooth conies through l
But alas, what pain and restlessness,
anxiety and broken nights for mother
and child before this proud result can
be achieved ! Yet it is a fact that all
that dreadful suffering can easily be
avoided by giving the little one m g
SCOTT’S ..
EMULSION
of cod liver oil with glycerine and the
hypophosphites of lime and soda, the
perfect remedy for all teething troubles,
and the only form of cod liver oil which
is both perfectly palatable and perfectly
digestible by the most delicate infant.
Read this thankful letter from Mrs.
W. O. Young, of Pittown, Wallsend,
N.S.W., dated October 15th last: —
R
ruyv
“My child
suffered so se-
verely while
teething that
in spite of all I
did for him he
continued to
waste awa y
until he was al-
most a skele-
ton ; he used to
lie in my arms
all the time and
would not eat
anything I of-
fered him.
My friends
told me I would
never rear
him. Scott’s
Emulsion so
strengthened
him, that he
was able to
take proper
nourishment,
and soon began
to run about,
and would not
rest in my arms
at all. He has gained considerably in weight,
and looks as if he had never had a day’s illness
in his life.” ’ B H
| g SCOTT'S EMIIhSION will | g
I g lielp your own little one in g S
just the same way.
II Get SCOTT'S BMUTSION and B
Save the Baby!
Trade Mark
Write to-day for a free
sample bottle (enclosing'
4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to
Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483,
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Note the trade mark,
“the fisherman.”
BLwyaa'<niHi*Tirnq.u m nag
THINGS FOR YOU, SIR!
THERE is not an article shown here that does not serve a useful
purpose, and man who want to be good to themselves once in
a way will no doubt find these hints helpful. If you want to buy
where goods possess a distinct individuality, embracing the
Newest Designs—where large choice in all lines makes selec-
tion easy, and where everything is marked as iow as fine goods can
be so.d—you will find these most desirable advantages at STEWART
DAWSON’S. Wa post everything free. Write for our Catalogue, men-
tioning what you are mo3t interested in. n
""
Si ,
" ' '
No. E3ol9.—White. Porcelain and Solid
Silver Shaving Mug, 11s 6d.
No. G4Bss.—Silver-mounted
China Shaving Mug, 6s 6d.
Kct; G2622. : —2 Gent.’s Silver-
tiloupted Brushes, with
Cdrtlbi in Leather Case, 30s.
Write for our Illus-
trated Price List.
No. F 7196.— Solid Silver Tobacco
Box, for the Pocket,
£1 17s 6d.
No. G7s37.—Gent.’s
9ct. Gold Signet
Ring, £1 ss.
Silver-mounted Doeskin or Kan-
garoo Tobacco Pouch, 4s 6d ;
Initials, Is extra. Antelope
Skin, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
o. G 4725.— Hall-Marked
9ct. Gold Saw Pierced
Medal, 17s Cd.
No. G 3927.— Real
New Zealand
Greenstone and
9cb. Gold Pen-
dant, 7s 6d.
No. 257.—Silver Sove-
reign Purse, 10s 6d.
Gold, £2 10s.
G. 4723.—9 ct. Gold
Medal, 17s 6d.
§8
SliM
■ » '
mm
■ill s
No. F 3966. —Gent.’s Handsome Solid
Silver Hair Brush, £1 2s (id
No. G 4705. —Solid Silver Ink
Well, 14s 6d ; smaller, 12s 6d.
No. F 7098. —9ct. Gold apd Greenstone Gent.’s
Pendant, 22s 6d.
No. G7o3B.—Solid Silver-mounted Shavin
Paper Holder, 17s 6d.
Cheaper styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
No. E9265.—501id
Silver Shaving
Brush, 13s 6d.
Plain, 12 6d.
•••;■ >-•
li
EQB
G-uIDS
VJWtfjSS
cOU
No. G 2596. —Very Strong Solid Silver Pocket Fruit Knife, 8s 6d.
Oct. Gold Tie Clips, Os Od.
No. F 7416. —9ct. Gold Tie
Clip, 14s 6d. Larger sizes,
in Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
Double Silver Chain, Hall Marked on every Link,
8s 6d. Heavier, 10s 6d and 12s 6d.
No. F 609. —Gent.’s Leather Watch Guard, Silver
Mounts, ss. Gold Mounts, 14s 6d.
No. G34ol.—Silver-plated Shaving- Mug with Brush, 21s.
No. G3929—G01d and
Greenstone Links,
18s 6d pair.
No. Gs294.—Silver-
plated Mounts, Fine
Quality Shaving
Strop, 8s 6d.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
George St. & Strand, Sydney.
If the Amateur Fishermen’s Association re-
sembles its signboard hung out in Pitt-street, it
is very extensive horizontally, and of a bright
blue. What does the A.F.A. do with a whole
flat in a big building?—unless that is where it
fabricates fish stories. Anyhow, it is convenient
to Chinnery’s, and when the Association hasn’t
caught any fish it is handy to have a fish-shop
adjacent. Also, there is a barber’s shop close by,
where the prawn may have his whiskers trimmed.
Glasgow Evening News gives some inf ormation.
which, from its novelty, cannot fail to interest
Sydneyites :
Australia has found an agreeable use for discarded tram
cars. Sydney ladies have them painted green and white,
hang them with baskets of flowers, train creepers over the
roofs, and then utilise them as afternoon tea-rooms.
Would you credit a Scotch paper with such a
romantic invention 1
The “ sudden” Australienne : Two sisters left
Sydney a few months ago for what was to be
strictly a six months’ pleasure trip. When they
got to London they felt rather bored, and being
active-minded young persons, wished to see things
from the point of view of some woman’s work.
Within 10 days of their landing they had taken a
shop in Piccadilly* and were selling Panama hats
to the British public, A returned traveller tells
me that photographer Barnett, who was Falk’s
Eredecessor in Australia* and who left to set up in
ioiidon, has now a studio in Paris. Miss Arnold,
a sister of Mrs. Humphry Ward, was (and may
still be) in his London studio’s reception room.
Jolly Sophie Osmond, formerly a Melbourne
presswoman, seems to be getting along in London.
She has a long story running in the Daily Mail.
Myra Browne, another Victorian chronicler, is
one of the Melbourne Argus correspondents,
Irma Dreyfus, that gifted Hebress and untiring
toiler, with the small waist, has been lecturing on
something French and Beautiful and Remote in
literature, and a prominent journal comments
admiringly on the graceful way in which another
lecturer, M. Leroux, kissed the lady’s hand after
one of the Franco-Britannic performances.
Two young Sydney women—sisters —who went
to England a while ago, are, according to their
friends here, to be presented at the British court.
If their Drawing Room gowns are as fine of their
kind as the fans that have betn made for them at
the Sydney ostrich farm, they ought to look
pretty well. Great and wonderful are the fans
that are made out of the tail of our Australian
ostrich—a lofty bird, with an eye like a masthead
light, and legs that straddle lazily across two
parishes. They are built of vast snow-white
plumeslike summer clouds, and mounted on tor-
toise-shell.
A wind-swept slope of grassland and naked
sand-patches is the ostrich-farm at South .Head.
I visited the place the other day. A Mrs. Ostrich
was on a nest that was merely a plot of trampled
sand the size of a large room. She was grey and
homespun-looking, her several yards of neck curved
reposefully and her fine eyes looked in the direc-
tion of Cecil Rhodes’ cemetery. Before her a fine,
black, male bird was doing a cake-walk so she
shouldn’t feel bored. No fool of a fowl ever had a
more inattentive audience. With bent knees,
wide-flapping wings and a neck making festoons
like a crazy map of the German Minor States,
he continued to make himself whirly and
agreeable until the humorless hen, with one
swift movement, rose to her full height and,
with never a glance at her egg or her mate,
strode off. What a noble omelette one of those
eggs would make. Concerning the feathers.
Fifty feather stoles and boas had been sent out
that day to one local firm. The birds are plucked
for hat and stole and fan purposes every seven
months, and no respectable feather need go
waving for a purchaser. The industry seems a
lucrative one, and only the fact of my having
seen one bird kick another prevents me going in
for it on a small scale. I suppose a bird or two
could be kept in the back yard, and they would
be ornamental when they looked over the fence.
It would be so economical to grow one’s own hat
in the yard.
Arthur Adams, commenting on the loneliness
(to an Australian) of London, says he had, before
he left, quite got in the way of not expecting to
see anyone he knew. Each time he boards a
North Shore ferry-boat it strikes him as some-
thing fresh and delightful to be hailed by one or
half-a dozen friends. Speaking of Lambert’s
equestrian picture, accepted with great enthusiasm
by the Academy, Mr. Adams mentions that the
original of the child on the horse is the artist’s
little son. Conder is now a “ Master. ” He lives
in Cheyne Walk in an historic house with beauti-
ful, seventeenth-century furniture. When you
have lived awhile in London among favorable
surroundings, says A.A., you develop quite a
“feeling” for the different schools of furniture.
Discussing Constance Clyde’s novel with H. G.
Wells, the famous writer asked the Maorilander
if he knew what she meant by the phrase, “ Pagan
shoulders.” He didn’t.
Dr. F. W. Thompson, president of the Odonto-
logical Society of Maoriland, has been examining
the children in a Christchurch primary school.
Only one pupil, a boy, had all the teeth sound.
He was an Australian, recently arrived. Not one
of the M.L. children had sound, permanent teeth.
The position is just as bad in England, says Dr.
Thompson. Out of 10,500 children, English and
Scotch, examined, only 14 per cent, had sound
teeth. Out of 4000 German children 104 had per-
fect sets of teeth. In all tests the teeth
of boys were better than those of girls. Old
fallacy of the value of lime-water for tooth-
building purposes is dead. The late Mr.
G. M. Pitt was one of those rareties —an
adult with sound grinders. He was just 70 years
of age when he went to a local dentist to have his
teeth inspected. With the exception of one tooth
that was rather loose, his jaws were perfectly
furnished.
There is a beautiful young Mexican gentleman
staying at the Australia these days. Edwardo !
Perfectus ! ! Bolio !!! Rendon !! ! ! is the elegant
name of him, and he is immensely rich and very
viewy. It is so seldom that rich, beautiful young
men can muster sufficient grey matter to make
even one view, let alone a lot of profound ones.
Amongst recent obituary notices is that of
a near relative of the former Bondi man
who married seven wives. Six of those ladies are
buried in a mausoleum on his property near the
beach. You may see their coffins through the
window.
When a fashionable Americanne resumes her
maiden name after her divorce it is quite usual to
see her written of in the society press of her
country as “a smart girl,” “an exceptionally
prettj girl.” In other words, she, so to speak,
goes into the debutante business all over again.
When she is twice divorced she probably goes into
short frocks.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENNEHI.


Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
'•OUR FAVORITE” eOUD EVAMEIi (Washable) —lUch and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
Without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gliding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“BAPOJLIIV ESi AMBUS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article. _
•‘SAPOUinT” BATH TUB ENTAMEIi. In White, Rose, Iroiy
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN” FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM: ENAMEL, Etc.
Medicated
TABLETS.
X
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists te be the Greatest Lung:
Pood of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing- stamps, te BJGRNSTAB & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DEAFNESS CURED,
THE AUROPHONE.
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery (or
the BELIEF and CURE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address :
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
14 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
Nicole Universal Records
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records will fit
any and every disc talking machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
are the most perfect i
ducers of sound, with
Bearing Sound Box.
spro-
Ball-
Two Special Instruments —“ The Colonial ” and
“ The New Standard.”
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE Free on application.
W. G. KING, Sole Agent, 316 George St„
SYDNEY.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division dated the 7th day of November 1904
made in an Action In the matter of the Estate of Hans
Campbell late of Legananny in the District of Loughbrick-
land in the County of Down in Ireland Farmer deceased
CAMPBELL v. ROSCO 1904 0. 2033 Whereby the follow-
ing inquiry was directed An inquiry who were the per-
sons entitled by virtue of or according to the Statue of
Distribution or otherwise to the personal Estate of the
said Intestate Hans Campbell living at the time of his death
and whether any of them are since dead and if so who are
their respective legal personal representatives JOHN
CAMPBELL the brother of the Intestate the said Hans
Campbell if living or if the said John Campbell survived
the said Intestate Hans Campbell (who died on the 17th
day of February 1903) and has since died the legal personal
representatives of the said John Campbell or if the said
John Campbell pre-deceased the said Intestate Hans
Campbell the Children of the said John Campbell
if living or the legal personal representatives of
such of them as survived the said Intestate Hans
Campbell and have since died are on or before the 25th
day of October 1905 to come in and prove their respective
claims in the Chambers of Mr. Justice Swinfen-Eady and
Mr. Justice Farwell Room 710 at the Royal Courts of
Justice Strand London England sr in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order. Wednesday the Bth day ef November 1905 at
12 o’clock at noon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 25th day ©f May 1005.
SPENCER WHITEHEAD,
Master.
NOTE. —The said John Campbell left Ireland and went
to Auckland, in New Zealand, in 1865. In 1870 he was at
132 Queen-street, Melbourne, in Australia, having pre-
viously spent six months in Sydney, in Australia. He
subsequently returned to Sydney, where he was last heard
of in 1877.
SHAEN ROSCOE MASSEY & CO.,
8 Bedford Row, London, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
EVEJ HID OLD AGE
YOU MAY FEEL THE
VIGOR OF YOUTH!
YOU may be full of life, energy, and determination. You
may be free from pains and aches, and defy your years.
There is a fountain of perpetual youth to be obtained,
and, like the giants of old, you can be in your prime at sixty—
strong, vigorous, and full of youthful enthusiasm. By infusing
a current of Electricity into your system you can obtain Health,
Strength, and Vitality.
Dr. McLaughlin's Electric Belt
will warm your heart and fill your body with the fire of youth.
Thousands of men and women, some old in years, who had lost
all strength and vitality ; some young, but who, through youth-
ful follies, had allowed the Vital Nerve Force to drain away ;
others who had suffered from their Liver and Kidneys, Stomach,
and other ailments ; and many who for years had suffered the
excruciating pains of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Weak
Back, Varicocele, Sprains, and Bad Joints, have come to us after
trying all other means, and have been cured by our Belt and
attachments. Many men and women will tell you what wonder-
ful relief they have obtained.
mJ
'/fl
• Br Me. Uniqfilhfc •
Electric BELT
The fVojrres* ef Twenty Years.
Ml* an* *WHn tr» pa* :»«*» yean
has heert male M She ejpiicaaoe af WuMetty fbr fca aM«I Mm
True. N Ins haea aael. la ene form ami sne’Aer lee a leaf
alpdy hy the prtpleUei heneor. *i»4. Wi msay taaCaaoae, *Mh fpaa
ihwfca. It ™ hnifli the euccen sOalnal hr phr*t*l*aa hi
fees! cHMn tee a ire wrmanfr el the haltery eawaehaM
hecaaaa at. the ■—n»i««nia tutted la Me »•tha4. that Dei
UeLeeeMbn'f Bieormc *m.t «an Ikfartet
MEhti tttjro M,
■UetneSjr fir *m «
W •" faaMß
i fie tafia af afae«&t*.aa*>l»
Im6 ha a«4ahfi aftagMaaef
*«. aei cf the «UJ aubmi
It af Mctrtaiil rfhaaeab kaa a#M
refihaa peaiftNeee, W fi» heftar-
maMai *e EteOafi f»
S -f
tn* MOVE lU-USTRATION SHOW* ts» W
;uniNT wmiiw Titnouon THtenTitt MS*
THIS VALUABLE BOOK
Containing Full Information
will be sent FREE and POSTAGE PAID to every man
or woman who has a weakness, or who suffers from Lost
Vitality, Pains or Aches, or Bad Health. It gives every
information concerning the many ailments that are cured
daily by Electricity. Every sufferer should have one, for
therein lies the secret of how to obtain your Health,
Strength, and Vitality, even after all other means have
failed. It is beautifully illustrated, showing our Belts
and attachments, and how they are applied for the various
ailments. Remember, it costs you nothing, and on re-
ceipt of a post-card we will forward you one.
NERVO-VITAL WEAKNESS, RHEUMATISM.
BOURKE. N.S.W.
Sirs, —I cannot cease praising your marvellous Belt for its curative powers ;itis a God-send tp Australasia—it was to me at all events. The benefit it
has imparted to my system compels me to acknowledge to the world its proficiency as a cure for ahy ailment or complaint. It has undoubtedly saved me from
an untimely grave. No tongue can express sufficient words ia its praise. You are at liberty to use tills statement as you wish, and any information as to the
above will be gladly imparted. Yours faithfully, M. N. HAVARD.
FREE APVICE
wty be given to every Man and Woman who will oall. A Free Test will also be
Belt explained. Our offices are open every week day from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
the working of the
’T FAL TO CALL.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
100 W. Market St.
Sydney.
N.Z. Office—s 4 WUUm 9t., Wellington. Melbourne Office—l67s. Swanston St. West Auetralla—OO William St., Perth.
WOUam CfawtM
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph .
MCLBDUMIE
V.
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
Warranted equal to any £HO 100.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURSE ST., MELBOURNE
Henry Skinner,
Oiarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. IChS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and puctSasSir
selected PLANT OF TABLE FCJENXSHtKOtBy by
far the largest and most complete lx tSue
colonies ; and can with confidence goal 'xni&t
satisfaction in all busine®» entrusted to Msa.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered to*
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets arad
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DAMCIMO. FI-OOBtB
of Various SUees supplliort.
Against Damp Air, CtstfSs, Ge&ds
and dangers arising ther&from
FOR SAFETY
W^SAJEL
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c-, &o.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
OS'Full Illustrated Price List Free.*S&
Solb Agehth nr N.S.W, l
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
“It Is able to support
Life." — Lancet.
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Contains mere nourishment than
10 cups of any ordinary cocoa.
Absolutely free from
Chemicals .
So,,
“Drifter” : Wandered through the wide
grey emptiness of the Queen Victoria Markets
(Sydney) recently, and found tho silenoe of deso-
lation brooding within the palatial white elephant.
(Silence in an elephant is a good idea—Ed. B.)
Scarcely a footfall struck sound from the tiles on
the ground floor. The occupied shops in the noblo
colonnade are but the precarious haunts of the
bird-dealer, patent medicine man, the penny-a-
peep show, Yankee cheap jack, and the
palmist, with a sprinkling of small business
concerns. On the upper flats the long
rows of offices wore a gloomy bankrupt ex-
pression. When I paid my visit a flight of
swallows flitting between the arches accentuated
the uninhabited appearance. Down in iron
frames the lift-cages lay in melancholy inactivity.
On the second floor, the silence hung like a stalac-
tite. The roar of the city strayed but faintly
through the solid masonry. Found myself tread-
ing lightly, as if passing the apartment of a corpse.
Beside the centre columns was suspended a heavy
metal bell, and I was seized with a mad desire t©
grab the clapper and send echoes clanging through
the long pale emptiness. Then I got lost in a
dim passage that ran past unoccupied rooms up
near the roof. A huge grey rat scurried past and
disappeared into a lumber-room, where a zephyr
breathed lonesome through the keyhole. The
murk and silence struck my soul with longing for
the sight of a human face or a public-house, and I
fled down a gloomy stairway t« the sunlight
without.
“Cornstalk” writes from London :
There is nothing here that jars so brutally upon the
male Australian as the disloyalty of the female of his kind
to her own land. There are exceptions, of course, but as
a rule the woman from “ down under “ is never so happy
as when she is asked by an Englishman, “ And how long
were you in the colonies ? ” If he is a casual acquaint-
ance, she seeks to impress him with her utter loathing of
all things Australian and her intense worship of every-
thing English. If she feels that he knows well enough
that she Is native-born, she squirmingly gives him to
understand how greatly she appreciates the veiled “ com-
pliment.” She is altogether lacking in the spirit of real
patriotism. For a sight of the shop-windows in Regent-
street, and the dresses in HydsPark on Sunday mornings,
she is easily prepared to swap her birthright. She has no
use for Australia when she is in England. She despises it
and rejects it. It is not so with the American woman or
the Canadian. They are, it is true, possessed of a mania
of admiration for all old things, and make extravagantly
enthusiastic pilgrimages to such shrines as the Fleet-street
tavern where Dr. Johnson is reported to have lifted his
elbow, to Stratford-on-Avon or Windsor Castle—but
run down any part of the American continent, and
be edified by the fins way in which they bite
your head off 1 It is with them “Gard’s own
country.” With most of our women over here Australia
might be the Devil’s own country—a place to be returned
to reluctantly, but ever to b« kept ih the background
whilst in England. Why is this ?
“ Petramoe ” : I dropped anchor at a very
much afflicted Maorilana boarding-house onoe.
The father of the family was in hospital at Wel-
lington ; the mother, when I arrived, was laid up
at her sister’s residence, and in her absenoe the
youngest ©f three daughters (to judge by her cook-
ing, a oenfirmed idiot) waited table. Second
daughter had two club feet, and the eldest was
engaged to a man with a wooden leg. I thanked
Heaven that the son seemed healthy. But not for
long. During my first dinner in the house he tried
to brush snakes off the table, and then got up and
yelled at large. I ran across the road to a shop
and rang up a doctor, and then I noticed that it
was an undertaker’s ’phone I had borrowed. This
seemed so ominous that I didn’t wait to pack my
portmanteau, but fled with my shirts—apart from
the one I was wearing—under my arm.
New South Wales State school teachers
have not only to suffer for diminished average
attendances owing to wet weather, but are prac-
tically held responsible for outbreaks of epidemics
in their districts. If, through such a cause, the
average is not up to the standard required for
that particular class of school, the school is
reduced in status, despite the teacher’s certificate
as to the facts, and the teacher’s salary, in most
cases, suffers to the tune of £l4 per year. But
this rule applies only to schools recently raised,
while many teachers draw salary for schools two
classes above their actual average. It is wholly
unreasonable to penalise the unfortunate “ ped ”
for what marine bills-of-lading call the “Act of
God.”
American authorities lately settled an
immigration ease that would have roused the
Stinking Fish party to insane fury had it occurred
hare. Mr. and Mrs. Faj, returning from Eng-
land to New York, took their niece, Miss Stanton,
for a trip. A Mr. Hugh Stanton, a friend of all
parties but no relation, was going by the same
boat; so, to keep the party together (that was the
explanation given), Mrs. Fay passed off her niece
as Mrs. Stanton. The two ladies occupied one
state-room, the two gentlemen another. No secret
was made of the innocent deception, but the New
York immigration officials looked on the circum-
stance with the cold, business-like eye of the Law,
and, under the clause dealing with the entry of
immoral persons, threatened to deport the pair
unless they married each ether instanter. As they
were both engaged to be married to other persons
they declined. After long argument they were
allowed to give bail, and the case was referred to
Washington, which finally acceptod affidavits
from relatives and allowed them to land, after
cautioning them to be more careful in future.
Tozer’s alleged nurse-girl wasn’t a oircumstance
to this case, but neither English nor American
papers made a fuss about it.
“ H.G.” : How comes it that the relics of
a prehistoric race in New Guinea are for-
warded to the British Museum by the Papuan
officials, who are paid and employed by the
Commonwealth ? Are there no museums in Aus-
tralia ?
A small incident
A Scotchbyterian of the “ pizenest ” kind provided a
little harmless enjoyment for the younger members of the
kirk the other Sunday, in aVio. town up north. It was
raining, ana the old man wore a large “mac.” This he
shed on entering, but his ofdlhary “ clobber ” came off
with it, and he sat down solemnly in his shirt-sleeves. He
said a bit of prayer in his hat, and was proceeding to look up
the 100th psalm in the “ Buke,” when his scandalised wife
pulled his white sleeve. “Wumman,” he said, in a hoarse
whisper, “ dinna ye ken this is the Loard’s hoose?” “I
think yc canna ken it yersel’,” snapped the good
“wumman,” “when ye leave half yer claes ahintye!”
Then an elderly pillar of Presbyterianism streaked out of
the holy place like the spirit of Tomlinson hurrying
between the stars.


Would Scratch and Tear Away the Flesh
Neighbours Called it Worse Case
Ever Seen—Grew Worse Under Doc-
tors— Suffering Terrible.
CURED BY ONE SET
OF CUTICURA REMEDIES
“ My baby’s face was a mass of sores.
The doctor called it eczema, but his treat-
ment did no good, as the child was getting
worse, the disease eating the flesh away
from his nose, and spreading to his body.
Neighbours said it was the worst case
they had ever seen. His suffering was
terrible, and he would scratch and tear
away the flesh. We then used the Cuti-
cura Remedies, one set curing him com-
pletely, and healing his face without scar
or blemish.—Wm. Cridland, 35 Winches-
ter St., Pentonville Rd., N. London, Eng.”
BABY QUIRK’S CURE
Of Torturing, Raw, and Scaly
Eczema By Cuticura
*' My baby was afflicted with a loathsome
running eczema. Two doctors treated
him for three months, but he grew worse
and his face was a sickening sight. We
then started to use Cuticura, and noticed
an improvement at once. In a fortnight
the running had ceased, the scabs nearly
all dried off, and in a month his face was
perfectly clear. — W. H. Quirk, No. I
West End Cottages, Ruywood Road,
N. Southampton.”
CUTICURA A BLESSING
To Skin-Tortured Babies
The suffering which Cuticura Soap and
Ointment have alleviated among the
young, and the comfort they have afforded
worn-out and worried parents, have led
to their adoption in countless homes as
priceless curatives for birth humours,
milk crust, scalled head, eczemas, rashes,
and every form of itching, scaly, pimply
skin, and scalp humours, with loss of
hair, of infancy and age.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pill, are .old throughout the
world. Depots: London, 17 Charterhouse Sq.; Pans, 5 Rue de
la Paii; Australia, It. Towns Sc Co., Sydney. Potter Drug Sc
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Prop.. Malted fre»,
"How to Care for Baby’* Skin, Scalp, and Hair.'
THE HIQH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
DOES NOT SHRINK.
DAY
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: •* ‘Viyella* has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
CONGREVE'S
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OP ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERSt
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price 6d.« Poet Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
Made on tub
Premises
CHOCOLATES
SWEETiTEATS
124 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, Next to
Fresh Every Day.
Lawson’s Auction Boom.
OF
m
SV'*-'-'
not
nmmikH
CONSTIPATION
KAIITUAL
AKD THE MANY lUIOIPIAOBNT
KUflt CMOS AMD MIAOACMS AHD
viiifivm: to act tiNiorttv
Piwruwriip
KIDNEYS. LIVER AM BOWELS.
HKJUCIMItK’
OEFtI FMMIrtSairiINAUDCOIMIti.
11 MOW HILL lOKOON. t-t
VVI ♦’lies «d.
Fretful children usually need
a gentle laxative. They take
California Syrup of Figs eagerly#
It is pleasant and sweet and
acts in Nature’s gentle way.
California
Syrup of Figs
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
The one remedy that cleanses
the system pleasantly and
naturally, strengthening the
organs and permanently over-
coming Habitual Constipation.
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and i/11.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Where the Western Drovers Go. &
(With apologies to “ Banjo ” Paterson.) ”
“ In my wild erratic fancy
Visions come to me of Clancy
"BANJO"
The mailman stopped for supper
With us at Clancy’s camp ;
Dead gidya we was burnin’ —
VVe didn’t need no lamp.
There was some of us got papers ;
The Boss he got new boots ;
One chap got notes from KINNEY’S
About their 810 BLOCK SUITS.
Before he’d got half through them,
“Just hark to this ! ” he says,
And takes and reads them to us,
By that dead gldya’s blaze.
“ It you live ’way off in Brisbane
And a new suit you need,
In indigo-dyed serge,
Or in all-wool fancy tweed,
“ Will you drop a line to FINNEY’S
For patterns to be sent,
With inch-tape and directions
For your self-measurement ?
“ Then if you should send an order,
We know you’ll wear with pride
Your SUIT AT FORTY SHILLINGS
That FINNEY’S have supplied.”
Soon us chaps and good old Clancy
In Town turned out most swell,
In our TWO-POUND TOGS from
FINNEY’S—
The BIG BLOCK SUITS they selL
To obtain the benefit of style and comfort at a minimum outlay, you should wear the "B/G BLOCK”
CLOTHING. This is made specially to your measurements, in box s Serge (Indigo Dye), andm High-
class Fancy Tweeds. The Price is 40 - per Suit to Measure.
The “ BIG BLOCK” SUITS hang gracefully, fit perfectly, wear satisfactorily, YOU CAN TBE Al-
and are the Best Value in Made-to-Measure Clothing offering in Australia to day. <v FiNNEY S.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms. They will be sent you, POST FREE, on receipt of request.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
OSTRICH PLUITES
FROM THE FAMOUS FARMS OF SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes.
Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order payable to
John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 11 yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
CARTRIDGES
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual-
ties. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
“Ouida,” in an article in the Fort-
nightly .
The approval with which England greets the genius of
Japan for war seems to me extraordinarily short-sighted
or amazingly blind. . , . It does not need a prophetic eye
to see that, if the brdWh and yellow races unite, they will
race over Europe in an irresistible flood.
A Bill introduced by Dr. Macnamara into
the British House of Commons contains a few
ideas which have been heard of on this side, it
proposes to oblige landowners to declare the value
of their land, imposes a tax on that declared
value, and empowers the local authorities to re-
sume’the property at the value so declared.
Labor folk in politics and polemics some-
times give a good example, in vain, to the “ gentle-
manly Tory.” Secretary Belcher, of the Maonland
branch of the Seamen’s Union, seeing the Abgus
false statement that engineer MTnnes, of the
Ormuz, had condemned the change from black to
white in the stoke-hole, attacked him. It was
shown subsequently that the Abgus columns had
lied in the matter. So Belcher apologises frankly
to MTnnes. But there has been no apology, so
far, from the Abgus*
It is a plausible yarn from Yes-No Reid to
deny that he ever personally imputed to the Aus-
tralian Laborites a contempt for Christianity and
a desire to burst up the purity of the home, but
the organisers of his party—the Anti-Socialist
lecturers-have been dinning that lie into people s
ears for the last six months without the two-
headed one uttering a word of protest, i here is
some technical difference between personally
throwing a brick at your enemy and hiring a
minion to do it for you ; but it is the same brick.
The country land-holder seems to be a
born tax-dodger the continent over. At a meet-
ing of ratepayers in S. Aus. the other day a very
prominent member of the Country party in the
State Parliament remarked that there was a danger
of losing the Government subsidy on some rates
that hadn’t been paid, which might result m
everybody else having to pay higher rates later
on; wherefore he suggested that the council
should draw its own cheque for the rates, and pay
it into its own account, and then claim Govern-
ment subsidy on it. _ .
The tide of anti-trades-union law decisions
in England has at last begun to turn. The Court
of Appeal has found in favor of the union in the
Denaby and Cadeby collieries strike case, the
mine-owners claimed a small sum of £150,000 from
the Yorkshire Miners’ Association for paying
money to men out on strike, and thus “ assisting
their conspiracy” against _ the mine owners.
The Master of the Rolls decided in favor ot the
owners. The Court of Appeal has reversed the
decision and declared in favor of the union, and
the mine-owners are looking vainly for their
£150,000.
Higoins, M.P., pointed out in his speech
at North Melbourne that Lecky, the prominent
anti-Socialist writer on morals, defended young
men of society keeping mistresses. Thereupon
several persons write asking for chapter and
verse Well, it is in the History of European
Morals, vol. 11., chapter V., “The Position of
Women.” Lecky argues that lasting monogamy
is the ideal in sex relations, but that fleeting
unions under decent conditions oannot be m\ari-
ably condemned. The Women’s National League
will have to get some other cry than defending
the marriage tie against Socialism.
There is a probability that wireless tele-
graphy will be established between Australia and
Maoriland some time this year. When M.L.
Postmaster-General Ward was in Australia last
March he held deep scientific palaver with the
Australian Postmaster-General, and they decided
that the system should be introduced. It has this
enormous advantage over the cable that it enables
communication to be kept up with ships at sea.
The cost is set down at only £3ooo—an amazingly
small sum compared to the cost of the submarine
cable, or even to the land telegraph wire, which
represents so much of our hard-borrowed money,
and which will soon be a bad debt.
From the account of a Kuelin (China)
execution, showing the ways of the Asiatic people
whom Australia is expected to welcome as
brothers, for Imperial reasons :
His gold bracelets were taken oil, and he was stretched
on a framework for execution by lingchih, i.e., the slow-
carving process. No cry or sound escaped from the
sufferer from first to last. Only when his bowels were
cut open did his head fall, but he quickly raised it again.
Finally his head was cut off. I omit all the horrible
details, which are too awful to relate. So terrible indeed
was the sight that many among the countless onlookers
fainted, a truly remarkable thing for Chinese to do.
Ultimately his heart and other members were brought to
the Viceroy, who had the heart opened, and, in the cover
of a teacup, drank some of his blood. Wang Taotai and
another high official also drank, but the rest of the
officials present refused. The Viceroy retained his liver
to take with him to Canton, so that, I suppose, he can
gloat over it at leisure. Such was the barbaric exhibition
the Viceroy of the Two Kuangs favored the people of
Kuelin with. He is one of the greatest of China s eight
viceroys
When George Reid is next talking of
Socialism as a horrible, unchristian scheme for
the general division of property, these few quota-
tions from the Bible might be thrown at him :
And all that believed were together, and had all things
in common;
And sold their possessions and goods and parted them
to all men, as every man had need.— Acts 11., 44-5.
And the multitude of them that believed were ofmne
heart and of one soul; neither said any of them that
aught of the things which he possessed was his own , but
thev had all things in common.— Acts 111., SJ.
Neither was there any among them that lacked ; for as
many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them,
and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and
Lid them down at the apostles’ feet; and distribution
was made to every man as he had need.— Acts 111., SU.
The Reid party says that Socialism is an Re-
ligious scheme for making all men equal, and the
early Christians seem to have (apparently with
Scriptural approval) got the same idea and acted
on it. Whereupon Nero and Bruce Smith both
became irritated.
Melbourne Age’s London correspondent
The statement which Mr. Chamberlain made to his
trades-unionist supporters in London as to the probability
that foreign manufacturers, who have an established
English connection, would open factories here if the
tanff reform proposals were carried out, has since been
confirmed by independent inquiry. At Manchester alone,
nmnv foreign firms have already been looking out for
many lore g provisional arrangements for
sites, and some haie maae p three American
firrns which propose factories at Trafford Park
firms wmc p p ineial c } t i e s where, according to local
fenorts foreign manufacturers will open branch factories
reports, lore their footing in the English market, if
dLtiesLhould be put upon their imports are Birmingham
Self °aLd Edinburgh
ardsansseem to* be waking up to the significance of this
artisans seem additions have lately been made to
I length of the branch of the Tariff
Reform Lea-ue. The first conference of this branch was
L“safd b to he about 80. Among the officially declared sup-
is said to ' be apout o E | inburgh are 10 trade-union
porters of tariff J.™ • presidents, the president of
UmLeithTiLdes Council, and nine Trades Council dele-
gates.
Latest advices from Brisbane state that the
Coalition is as strong as ever. The Government,
it is understood, will give the Upper House a
chance to knock out several industrial reforms—
such as Industrial Arbitration, a Hospital Taxa-
tion Bill, Workmen’s Compensation, Betterment
Tax, and Shearers’ Accommodation Bill—and a
little knocking out of that sort will help to knock
out the Upper House.
The yam of some of the anti-Socialists
now is that they quite believe in Socialism so
long as it helps along Private Enterprise. Well,
what Socialist enterprise doesn’t help along some
private enterprise ? State railways help along the
farmer ; State posts and telegraphs help along the
merchant; State telephones help along the but-
cher, who gets an order for 21b. of chops, whereas
if it didn’t have a telephone the family would
breakfast on hash ; State batteries help along the
prospector ; State sugar-mills help along the cane-
grower ; State wineries would help along the vine-
grower ; and if the State went in for both vine-
growing and wine-making it would help along the
barrel-making business. The anti-Socialist, when
he shuffles, is just as absurd and inconsistent and
inconclusive as he was before he shuffled.
Yic. Premier Bent talks vaguely of a Com-
pulsory Voting Bill whereby every Victorian
elector on the rolls will be required, under penalty,
to record his vote at one or other of the polls
unless he can plead a satisfactory excuse. The
notion has many good points, but to avoid gross
injustice it would have to be accompanied by a
provision allowing for a negative vote. Many
citizens nowadays do not vote because the choice
is between Bad and Worse, and they don t care to
vote for Bad because he is so very little better
than Worse. To force them, in such cases, to
vote for Bad, and swell his triumph, and enable
him to shout about the greatness of the public
confidence in him, would be gall and wormwood.
If a negative vote were allowed the citizens could
vote against both, and possibly thus declare both
of them not elected, and thereby necessitate a new
election in which Bad and Worse would be barred,
A Sydney voter, faced with the option of voting
for, say, Law or Wilks, has a good reason for stay-
ing away. If he is to be compelled to vote he
must, as a logical corollary, have the right to
record a vote against both, in the hope of getting
another poll with both Law and Wilks disqualified.


TATTERSALL
P
(George Adams,
CONSULTATIO
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
BROKEN HILL CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 19 ... ... _ 50,000 at 5/2 each.
ADELAIDE G. N. HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 12... ~ 100,000 at 5/2 each.
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11 ... _ 100,000 at 5/2 each.
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Canterbury Park, N.S.W., October 2 - 50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTAKTT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d . on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
m
ft
I,
KEEP YOUR.
BILLS DOWN
rtflfolnl'Hi
SR
By
Purcßrsfns
YOUR CLOTHING
FROM
Citicoltn Stuart
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
$ Co.
eta.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Write for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Beanie’s
THE
FA.3VCOTJS I : tESIMCS3I3'SZ" FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, ° u g > 1 su,^5 u ,^° r , rea , , m ?J oar seness, am 01
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invalua e, as leec s a omp e e ure - 1S co *^'
folding in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chionic, nor onsump ion o c eve op. onsump o •
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, ta en a e eginnmg, a ose is genera ysu in,
and a Complete Cure is certain. ____ __ __ r .
BEWARE OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
" I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
i'esults. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
■Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
" Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
11 1 suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. S’ Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“ It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.,
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“ For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. O. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“ I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Ooanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.” —Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure
taken.”
is the best medicine I have ever
D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very gratefuUo j-o^TOSACH
Yirginia-street, Geelong.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is all you describe it to be.”—
Yours most respectfully, R. J. M'CLELLAND, _
Red Jacket, via Walhalla, Victoria.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis' Cure.”— ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.” —CHAS. WYBROW, Enochs
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M'DONALD, Trinkery, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S> STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both."
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good; but I heard of your and two
bottles of it made me quite well."
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valu
able medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and 69
other leading residents.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s- 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Always the same!
for the laundry.
FOR MAKING BRASS LIKE MIRRORS.
SeIf=Poisoned.
(By “Sequence.”)
Some of the most powerful poisons known to science are made in the human body as the result
of the wear and tear of life. These poisons are produced by the mere act of living.
We have all heard of the poisoned spears, darts and arrows used by many tribes of savages. The
most common mode of poisoning these articles is to thrust them into a dead human body, and leave them
there until the flesh is completely decomposed. Some tribes consider that there is a special virtue in
the corpse of a chief, when used for this purpose, and that the greater the chief the more dangerous to
their enemies will be the weapons thus prepared. Whether the body is that of a chief or that of a
slave matters not at all. In either case a most malignant poison results from the decomposition,
and the slightest scratch from spear, dart or arrow treated iu this manner, is fatal to a human
being or any other living animal.
Dangerous as are the poisons created by the decomposition of animal matter, the poisons made by
each of us every moment we live are equally deadly, and their evil work is wrought within ourselves.
If all our organs are thoroughly healthy, the poisons, which are being continuously made, are expelled
and we suffer no hurt. It should therefore be our first care to see that the organs whose duty it is to
remove these poisons are kept in efficient working order.
Upon the skin, lungs, kidneys and liver rests the main responsibility of extracting poisonous
matter from the blood and removing it from the system. The moment one of these organs, through
weakness or disease, becomes incapable of performing its work efficiently, that moment we begin to
suffer from some illness, and, if steps are not taken to restore to health and activity the organ at fault,,
death from some form of blood poisoning must ensue.
The lungs are vigorous organs, and speedily advise us of anything which is impeding their action,
whilst the skin will usually perform its duty if kept in a state of cleanliness. The kidneys and liver,
on the other hand, are generally not able to directly call our attention to any weakness or disease in'
themselves, and it is only by studying symptoms produced by their irregularity that we become aware'
of their incapacity to do their work.
The kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight, of uric acid,,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the'
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
he solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous and causes us to suffer from uric'
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone,
Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys
is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand
until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must be
lost in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but mora
painful illness will result. „ ’
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three-
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the bloodj
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is inso'
„ _ . v , insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived
their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indi-
gestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed especially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s-
Safe Cure. It was realised at the outset of the investigation that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately
associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many disappointments the medi-
cine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these vital organs are
enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of
which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica
Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder
Troubles, and General Debility. Warners Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing-
the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are pewnaaen*
The City.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are bards with luring mem’ries of
the old selection dear,
Thoughts that haunt and take them back-
ward through each grey and faded year,
Thoughts of station life, and homestead, and the
stars when day is done,
And the bushmen always singing, in the humpies
on the run.
They have yearnings for their “bushland, and
they often wish them back
To the dull and dreary townships, and the swag-
men on the track;
And they long to hear the magpie, or the lonely
curlew call,
And they “ think the bush is better than the city
after all.”
But I don’t prefer the whirlwinds, and the mir-
age, and the heat,
To the noises of the city, and the roaring of the
street.
Oh ! I love the crowded city, with its rush, and
roar, and cram,
And the “swarry” round the corner with its
mockery and sham.
Oh ! I love the bathing ladies down at Manly
beach to see,
And the buxom-bosomed women, starring at the
Tivoli,
Oh ! the glorious show at Rickards’, and the bar-
maids and the bars,
Are superior to silence and the everlasting stars.
Oh ! the days of reckless folly on the turf at
Randwick course,
Where the mad crowd sways and surges as it backs
the deadest horse;
Parlor nights of drink and gamble, and of pipe and
song and glee,
Flying hours of wit and wisdom, and of rum and
revelry.
Standing on the cliffs at Sydney, watching lights
on decks below
Of the ever-moving steamers as they wander to
and fro ;
While, borne slowly from the city, comes the sound
of human life—
Sound of half a million people and their never-
ceasing strife.
Oh ! the smiles of dainty charmers and the strol-
lings ’neath the stars !
And those little social parties in the “ glow of
private bars ” !
The Bohemian times of dancing, and of story,
smoke and song,
When the nights fly ever quickly and the days are
never long.
Oh ! I like the cabs and ’buses and the city’s end-
less din,
And I love the rush and bustle, and the fever and
the sin.
Oh ! I cling to luring wine-shops, where the Hebe’s
eyes are bright—
Where gas and glass and glare are, and the wicked-
ness at night.
And I love to see the figures of the actresses in
tights,
As they flare and flaunt their beauties when they
face the shining lights.
They may prate of creeks and gullies, and the gum
trees, and the rest,
But I love the city better than the dull and
haunted West.
N.S.W.
DAVID R. RICHARDS.
Sarah.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was dinner-hour at the roadmen’s
camp. Ten men squatted on the dried
grass, eating, and Shiner sat on a candle-box
in the centre, while the cook chopped his hair into
tufts with a pair of shears. Shiner and the cook
had already fed; and Shiner, who had tramped
the States all round and back again, was pleased
to say that the cook was a cook as knew how to
cook. “ Though yer ain’t too much o’ a barber,”
he added. “ I won’t hev that front curl cut; I
tole yer before.”
“ Goin’ courtin’ ? ” suggested someone, and
Shiner looked sheepish.
“ N-not exactually. No, yer silly rabbits. No /
I tell yer. What yer grinnin’ at? I done all my
•courtin’ ’fore yer was—born 1 you ”
Did yer marry her ? ” asked the cook, deftly
•diverting Shiner’s mind from a mangled ear.
“T’other chap marr’d her,” said Shiner,
gloomily. He was a mate o’ mine, an’ I put ’im
in hosspittle for it, an’ meself in quod. I chucked
this State when I corned out. . . thank yer. Yer
done me fine. Ah ; she was a clinker. Yer may
well say that.” Shiner sighed, and drew his
hand across his mouth. “Powerful long way
’tween drinks, an’ that river-water is rotten
stuff. Pity I can’t drink tea .. . well, thank yer.
I don’t mind .. . here’s fun. Ali-ha-a. When a
chap’s in ’eavy pain, that’s soothin’.”
“Colic?” asked a teamster, gathering up his
gear.
“It’s a spirituous pain,” said Shiner, reprov-
ingly; “an’ iPs name is Sarah.” He sighed
again, paused, then hoisted his swag. “Corned
o’ a good fam’ly, too,” he said, turning. “Lady’s-
maid, that’s what she was. To Watson, the
member. Down in Dunedin. Well—so-long ;
an’ thank yer. May yer never want a pipeful
when yer far away from even a bit o’ cabbage an’
some cig’rette paper. No; may yer never.”
“ Same ter you an’ many of ’em,” said the cook,
pleasantly, and he raked the pannikins together
with a clatter.
“Thank yer,” said Shiner again, and loudly,
“ I’ll smoke yer healths when I meet acrost some
terbaccer.”
He swaggered off with his billycock on the
back of his head ; and the sun poured heat on him
out of a smudgy sky until his red, coars9 face
was blue, and his neck-veins swelled to purple.
The lean, white road snaked higher and higher
through hills that were scored and stripped with
the passing of a mining rush, and from out of the
swampy gullies that lay between the rock-faces
the mosquitoes swarmed to batten on the large,
wet countenance, and make Shiner swear.
An hour later he stopped at a gate to the left of
the road, cast his swag, sat down, and pulled a
wisp of the rank-red tussock.
“ The right boot ain’t so bad,” he said, breath-
ing on it, and beginning to polish breathlessly. “I
can sit wi’ it a-top. Now ” He pulled off
his coat, examined its grease-spots, tried it with
the tip of a wetted finger, and swore.
“ Rotten road this allers was, an’ reekin’ wi’ all
the dust o’ Southland. Ne’er mind. I’ll bust a
noo one out’r Dave. If Sarah’s half the gel she
was she’ll see ter that. Ah-h, Sarah ! Yer was
allers the one ter pet me—blessed if I ain’t gettin’
sentimental agin.”
He closed the canted gate behind him, and
swung jauntily down the paddock. His head
sang with the memory of that night when he had
kissed Sarah behind the haystack in her father’s
yard, and that other night when he had tried to
kill Dave Oolney in Gatersone’s bar. He began
to bite his nails, and his eyes reddened.
The smell of sheep came strong and stuffy from
a run of yards where a man was drafting. Shiner
walked up, rented a boot on a lower rail and his
arms on the buckled top. He coughed. Dave
looked up, nodded without recognition, and ham-
mered more sheep through the drafting-gate.
Shiner waited.
When the near yard was empty Dave straddled
the gate and came over. He was a big, hulking
man, with full life in him yet.
“’Day,” he said, as he pulled out a lump of
black tobacco, and felt for his knife. “Want
anything?”
“No’urry, thank yer,” said Shiner, politely.
Then he raised his chin. “ Think yer knows me,
Dave ? ”
Dave stared with his thick lips pursed up;
scratched his beard with a forefinger, and finally
said :
“See what ye done to this here beak of mine,
Shiner ? A nice crooked furrer it’ll plough inter
my last six foot o’ airth.”
“Yer allers was pretty wi’ yer words,” said
Shiner, dijjlomatically. “ I asks yer pardon ’bout
that, Dave, I’m sure.”
Dave grunted, and sliced tobacco-flakes into his
palm. Shiner blinked across at the old sod hut
with the spread of tailings and the clay face of
the hill beyond. Then he looked straight at
Dave.
“Doin’ well, I ’ear?”
“Fair, Bought Gatersone’s old pub an’ the
land berlongin’ to it with one little bit o’ luck I
had. I’m wantin’ Sarah to move in some time.”
“By gum ! ” said Shiner, faintly. “ It’d ’a’ paid
me better ter hev hung outer that claim, ’stead o’
handin’ it over ter you when I goed traveilin’.”
“ It’d ’a’ paid ye better to hev kep’ yer fist off
of my beak, ” said Dave, shortly. “ Goin’ further,
Is’pose? Good-day.”
“ You jes’ hole on a minit,” said Shiner, climb-
ing on the rails. “ Yer owes me one, Dave Oolney,
an’ I’ve come along fur payment. There ain’t a
square inch o’ dirt on the wide earth I can call me
own this day. Yer took it from me. Yer took
me home an’ me wife —an’ me allers sech a one fur
a ’ome an’ childrun. Yer made.a wanderer o’
me”—Shiner’s voice broke with reproach—“an’
when I comes back, dumb wi’ thirst, yer never so
much as says : ‘Come along in an’ hev a drink.’
Yer ain’t the mate I thought yer, Dave.”
Dave’s great red face went mottled, and his
laugh was forced. “That all? Wuth cornin’ten
miles outer the township ter tell me that, eh ?”
“No,” said Shiner, firmly. “That ain’t all.
Yer didn’t use me straight, an’ yer got ter give
some o’ it back. ”
“I paid ye for the claim, didn’t I? An’ I can’t
hand over the wife at this time o’ day. What was
ye wantin’, then ? ”
“ Don’t go rakin’ that up agin—l hev’ got some
feelin’s lef’. No, but yer can offer me a little
comfert an’ ’appiness, an’ the light a woman sheds
on the ’ome. I come ter stay wi’ yer fer a spell,
ole man. Yer didn’t ought ter grudge me a bit o’
yer happiness. It ain’t much I asks,” said Shiner,
coming to earth inside the fence. “Jes’ home,
ter taste it fur onst, an’ a little kindness wi’ me
meat. ”
“You take an’git,” said Dave, hotly, “or I’ll
send ye to a home ye ain’t wantin’. D’ye hear ? ”
Shiner played his trump card in silence and
dignity. He tightened the strap round his
middle, made his coat meet at the waist and
pinned it, then spoke in a windy gasp.
“Near as slim as I used ter be, ain’t I, Dave? ”
Dave, with his wrath flung back on itself, stared
curiously: “Yer shoulders is a bit run inter yer
stummiek. That’s with loafin’. ’Got the con-
vulsions?”
“No. Me coat’s a leetle shiny’crost the back.
I suppose she’ll know the swag done it. But
women hev some bowels of compassion.”
Dave straightened, and his hands shut up : “I
never telled ye ye cud see her, dom ye .”
Shiner was twisting his bang round a stocky
forefinger, and his eyes narrowed and were full of
cunning.
“ When a feller ain’t allowed ter pay a after-
noon call on a ole mate’s wife, ” he said sugges-
tively, “p’raps he’s likely ter guess as there’s
suthm’ wrong—sech as the ole mate’s wife ain’t
fergot the feller, per’aps.”
Dave made a noise in his throat like a half-
choked dog. Then he curbed himself suddenly,
and sat back on the rails. The grin on his lips
was ugly.
“ All right. Go on in, if ye will. Guess she’ll
know what’s made the seat o’ ye pants so shiny,
anyway.”
Shiner crossed to the door full-tilt, and alert to
dodge a kick in the rear. He turned giddy with
his hand on the latch, and his breath came short.
“ Saralh, ” he muttered with a half-nervous giggle
—“I airi’it never cared fur another gel, Sarah.
Blime, if I ought o’ come back.”
The latch slid from his fingers, and a woman
stood in the doorway. She was little and
wizened and drab. She wore an old jersey of
Dave’s, that buttoned with nails and fell loose at
the neck. Her boots and socks were Dave’s, too.
“ Don’t stan’ there making a draf’,” she said
peevishly. “ Come in, can’t you ? ”
Shiner collapsed sideways into a half-cask padded
with torn sacking, and stared dumbly as the
woman slammed the door past his nose. Then
she peered at him in the light from the fly-spotted
window. The floor and table behind her were
littered with unwashed dishes and pots ; the fire
was scattered ash in the clay-puddled opening,
and the whole place had an odor of damp clothes
and stale buttermilk.
“ I was wantin’,” murmured Shiner, under her
pale, compelling eyes—“l was lookin’ fur Mrs.
Dave Colney.”
“You don’t need to look no further, then. Now
I b’lieve I seen you before somewheres.” She
stooped closer, and Shiner saw the parchment
skin he had kissed, and the thin, colorless hair
(now skewered by two pins) that he used to twist
round his fingers. “ Why, o’ course; you’re
Willie."
Shiner made neither denial nor anything else.
He was not even consciously disgusted. He just
felt a wreck. He breathed heavily, and his coat
burst from its pin at the waist. Sarah scraped
her chin softly, and the two lovers looked at each
other in silence. Shiner had been a “swell” in
his youth. He was cleanly still, and held himself
well. Sarah smiled, and slid a grimy hand into
his.
“Shake,” she said, gushingly. “I'm glad to
see you. You’ll be wantin’ somethin’ to eat, o’
course. Oh, I ain’t mindin’ the trouble —there
ain’t anythin’ but trouble in this world. Dave
says I didn’t ought to talk about trouble, wi’ no
childrun nor nothink. But, as I ses, other folks
has their worries, an’ I can’t forget it, if he can—
nor I didn’t ought to.”
Shiner found his tongue and his legs, but both
were dizzy. ” “ Thank yer, Sarah. I —l got a
appointment back in the township. I —l ”
Sarah tipped some sloppy substance into a
soup-plate, polished a spoon on her apron, and
put the things into Shiner’s helpless hands.
“You’re not goin’ all that way starvin’. Now,
you jest eat this up, Willie. It won’t kip for
Dave’s tea, anyway. I’ll get you some milk.”
She dived into the hole in the wall that Shiner
knew of old for the bedroom. Some power out-
side his bemuddled mind drove him. He dropped
spoon and plate, wrenched the door open, and
fled.
Dave saw him coming when the canary and
pink of sunset flushed the grass, and the hills
behind were savage purple. Some of the purple
showed on Shiner’s forehead, and he controlled
his voice with difficulty.
“Seein’ as how yer ain’t over friendly, I’ll take
a tenner ’stead o’ lodgin’,” he said.
Dave got off the rails. He had seen Shiner
pause outside the door to wipe his hands in the
grass.
“You clear,” he said, “or I’ll knock the face
off of ye.”
“ I ain’t bearin’ yer no malice now, Dave,” said
Shiner, mildly.
“Git,” said Dave, and there was challenge in
the swing of his hips and shoulders. Shiner
measured strength with him in an eyeblink. But
the shock had put liis world out of focus for the
time, and he was not ready to act.
“ Thank yer,” he said, vaguely, and made his
way down the paddock in black silence. Outside
the gate he stopped, drew his lungs full of clean
air, and shook himself like a dog.
“ Whew !” he said. Then, as an afterthought:
“Dam fool I bin—for ten year, too. An’ I
thought I never had no luck,’’ he added.
G. B. LANCASTER.
“ O.B.” : To get the people on the land is
not enough ; to get them to stay there is the thing.
Over 60 per cent, of the unemployed in the cities
have been on the land for a short or long period
at some time or other, and have been starved off.
The corner of Pitt and Underwood-streets,
Sydney, where some old buildings have recently
been demolished with a view to erecting sub-
stantial premises, is the site upon which, strange
as it may appear to-day, the first Australian ship
was built. This was the King George, constructed
under the supervision of James Underwood, and
launched in April 1805. She was 185 tons,
and registered by Kable and Co., which meant
James Underwood, Simeon Lord and Henry
Kable. This firm had leases of land in the
vicinity—Underwood had the lease upon which
the ship was built, Lord the corner of Macquarie
Place (both these allotments ran down to the
Tank stream), and Kable’s lease was on the corner
of Essex Lane and adjoined the old gaol.
“Daveß.” : The kid-cadger is fast be-
coming a distinct public nuisance in Sydney.
True, most of the cadging is done on behalf of
school fetes, and such things. But why not
organise a concert, or some such entertainment,
and thus provide the “ necessary ? ” This would
give the children the notion of paying for what
they get, and would discourage the habit of
cadging or cringing for it. Or let the parents
interested in the affair subscribe the required
amount, instead of having their progeny gradu-
ally deprived of the feeling of self-respect and in-
dependence. Out of the kid-cadger cometh the
loan-politician, and out of the loan-politician
cometh the low-waged, brow-beaten helot.


I
AND HEADACHE CURED.
WHEN you are bilious, every thought of food is nauseous. When the room gets
warm you feel as if you are going to be sick. If you hurry to catch a car or
a train, there the feeling is again. Headaches, turning off with sickness, a
nasty coated tongue, are other symptoms of Biliousness, and a symptom most
distressing to the female sex is the fearful green-yellow
color which the face comes to have if Biliousness is
allowed to continue. All this arises from misdirected
bile, which is due, primarily, to improper liver action.
“For several years I suffered terribly with Bilious-
ness and Sick Headaches,” says Mrs. Edith Hill, of
143 Wyndham-street, Waterloo, Sydney. “When an
attack came on I would grow quite dizzy, and my eye-
sight was blurred. These attacks would come on quite
suddenly without warning, and while they lasted I suf-
fered extreme agony and I lost all inclination for food.
I could not hold up my head, and the least noise irritated
me. In fact I could not bear to be spoken to, I felt so
irritable. As you may be sure I was not enduring all
this misery without attempting to remedy it. I tried
many advertised cures, and also consulted doctors, but
failed entirely to gain any relief. A friend gave my
husband a few Bile Beans and recommended them
strongly as a cure for Biliousness, and although, after
my previous experiences with medicines in general, I
had little faith in Bile Beans doing me any good, I
thought I would try them. After taking a few doses I
began to feel an improvement, and, thus encouraged, I
persevered with the Beans, taking in all three boxes,
and I am now thoroughly cured and can do my house- . j
work with pleasure. I never lose a chance of praising Bile Beans for the grea g
they have done me.”
*
w
EANS
9z : £
BILE BEANS are a SAFE
FAMILY MEDICINE and
PROVED CURE for BILIOUS-
NESS, HEADACHE, INDI-
GESTION, CONSTIPATION,
PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE
WEAKNESSES, NERVOUS-
NESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANASMIA, DIS-
TURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF
APPETITE, PIMPLES, and
ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS,
RHEUMATISM, and by giving
tone to the system will ward off
COUGHS, COLDS, and INFLU-
ENZA. Obtainable generally at
Is. or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX
(containing three times the Is. l£d
size).
A. ®> F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hot ice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd #
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels?
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
[?]
HIS
SIGNATURE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE poet from his Pegasus
dismounted at the door
Of the Boyang Bugle
offioe in Punkin-street, one four.
He marohed into the Editor, a poor old worn-out
man,
Who sat all day a-skimming verse from off a
cranium pan. \
“ Ah ! ” quoth the bard, “ I trow you owe a little
cash to me,
For thirteen columns that I wrote for you of
poetry ”
‘‘ What was it oalled ? ” “ Why, let me see ; you
printed it last week
4 The Blushing Rose that Only Grows on Celia’s
Lovely Cheek ! ’
“ And I am Aubrey
Allingdale, whose
signature appears
Beneath the ninety-
second verse in
purple ink and tears.
So hie thee t® thy cash-
box, sir, and pay me
what you owe,
Eor Pegasus is champ-
ing hard, and stamp-
ing down below.”
The Editor put down
his spoon, and left the cranium pan.
“ O have no fear, no fear,” he said, “ I’ll pay you
well, young man—
The author of the ‘Blushing Rose’—l have it
marked, for sure—
Just write here, please, ‘ Received Threepence for
use of signature.’"
“ God bless my soul! ” young Aubrey cried, “but
what about the ‘ pome ’ ? ”
The Editor looked up and smiled, and pointed at
the dome —
“Aloft,” he said, “great Shakspeare sits with
Milton at his side,
And Donne and Jonson —Herrick, too, in all his
laurel pride.
“And Chatter-
ton and ” £
•‘Hold your
p e a c e,”
sor ea med
Aubrey Al-
lingdale.
“ You’re tri-
fling with a
desperate
Australian
Nightingale,
Eor what have
these forgot-
ten men of
whom you
dully prose
To do with the sweet verses of my precious ‘ Blush-
ing Rose’?”
“ All — everything—eaoh word, each line, each
phrase, each single thought,”
Replied the cunning editor, “ by one of them was
wrought.
Eaoh had his share, his speoial bit, but still the
World, I’m sure,
Is grateful, Mr. Allingdale, for your fine signature.
“ And I have paid you well, my boy; indeed, it’s
double rates —
But that compared is nothing to —my heart quit®
palpitates—
The sum I’ll owe to Shakspeare, or what Jonson’s
bill will be
When he reads the Boyang Bugle in the Upstairs
Library! ”
He ceased. But Aubrey Allingdale, afar from
human ken,
Like Saul, the King of Israel, had fallen on his—
pen /
N.S.W.
HUGH M'CRAE.
The big absentee mining co.’s of Westralia,
which are taking out £2,000,000 a year in divs. and
vast sums more for imported machinery, are biting
their victim’s ear all right. When Bigjohn got
Westralia to authorise the goldfields water scheme
it was on condition that it paid working expenses,
interest, and sinking fund. The water costs
ss. 4d. per 1000 gallons to deliver, leaving out
sinking fund altogether, and yet the absentee
dividend-grabber gets all the water he wants for
ss. per thousand. Reckoning in sinking fund,
the State subsidises the dividend-grabber t© the
extent of 3s. sd. per 1000 gallons—the absentee
pays 55.; the tax-payer pays 3s. sd. And the
absentee draws his £2,000,000 a year in divs. and
smiles, and now comes at the knock-bneed Govern-
ment for more subsidy and gets it!
The Barber’s Yarn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ CJHAVE or ’aircut, sur? Yezsir! yezsir!
This chair, sur ! Crook weather we’re
’avin ! Rain seems on’y to leave orf long 1
enuf to spit on its ’ands and git a better holt.
Yew’re a stranger, I take it? Quiet little ’ole, j
this. I aint bin ’ere long meself—’bout a month.
Bendvgo’s my town—beautiful spot. Don’t know
it! Your loss! One of the finest cities in the
world ! Yer ’air looks dry—would you like to try
a bottle o’ my ‘ Hydraulic Hair Hustler ’ ? No !
Well, no ’arm done. As I was sayin’, it’s a quiet
’ole, this ’ere, but some o’ the in’abitants thinks
they’s devilish smart, f’rall that. Tried to rise
the ’air orf’n me ’ead when I first come. It wuz
a Saturday night, an’ I ’ad all nice an’ shipshape,
waitin’ fer trade, when in walks ole Green, the
saddler on the corner ’ere, an’ arsts fer a shave.
Now, I’m a cove as takes a pride in my art, an’,
’im bein’ the first customer, I puts in a bit o’ work
on ’im wat’d make a angel wish ’e grew ’air
instead o’ feathers —see ! Arter I ’ad finished, I
ses to ’im, ‘ Yer ’air looks dry. Let me give you
a bottle of my famous “ Hydraulic Hair Hustler.”
It’ll keep yer ’air from coinin’ out,’ ses I.
“‘Don’t want none,’ ses ’e, short. ‘Give us
somethin’ ter staunch the bleedin’.’ ’E sat up in
ther chair an’ pointed to a bit of a scratch on his
pliizihonomy.
“I tell y’u, sur, that made me kinder mad—
me ’avin’ wasted so much good workmanship on
’im. Like castin’ diamonds before pigs as y’u
might say. ‘ Staunch ther bleedin’ I ’ ’E spoke
like the gore was pourin’ from ’im in buckets.
“ ‘ Sur,’ sed I, with dignity—jist like this : ‘ Sur,
I ’ave never cut no one in the ’ole course of my
profesliunal career.’
“‘Well, y’u’ve made a start,’ sed ’e, an
walked out very ’uffy. I was so upset I forgot to
ask’im to pay me.
“ Well, I never seed no more ©f im till the
next Saturday night. ’E comes in with two other
blokes an’ sits in the chair, while his fren’s ranged
’emselves round the room.
“ ‘ See ’ere,’ ’e remarked, before I’d sed a word,
‘ I don’t want none of- yer ’air. wash. I’d rather
go bald.
“ ‘Yezsir,’ I sed, ‘ y’u’d be alright without air.
“ ‘ Wadjer mean ?’he arsts.
“ ‘An empty barn needs no thatch,’ answers I
back. , , ...
“ That put ’im out fer ten seconds—’specially
when’is two pals sniggered.
“ ‘Mind y’u don’t cut me like y’u did last time,
’e sneered 'arter a bit. I 'didn’t trust meself to
speak, but went on with me work.
“ Presently there was a fearful bang just be md
me. I give a jump, an’ at the same time ole
Green lets out a scream, and jumpin’ out of the
chair, staggers acrost the room ’oldin ’is throat.
Now I knew quite well I wuz nowhere near im at
the time the bang came. In fact, ’e was bendin
down an’ ’ad ’is face turned away from me. No
blud was on the razor, but there was ole Green
squirmin’ ©ijl the floor with a ghastly gash startin
from ’is left eye an’ runnin’ round to ’is right ear.
’E was a ’orrid sight, an’ if I ’adn’t bin sure it was
a put-up job jist to scare me, I would ’ave died, o’
fright. ’E lay on the floor, as I telled y’u,
groanin’, with blud, or what looked like it, all
over ’im. The other blokes was kneelin’ by ’im,
portendin’ to look ’orror-stricken. I went to the
shop-door an’ bolted an’ locked it, an’ put the key
in my pooket. I went back into the shop then,
an’ put me ’ands in me pookets, casual-like, an’
sat down. . , .
“ ‘ Wot’s the matter with im ; is e often took
that way ? ’ I inquires. , . ~
“‘Sh ! ’ sed one of the blokes; ‘ ’e’s dym’.’
“‘Pretty red dye,’sed I.
“ ‘l’m —I’m done,’ gasped ole Green from the
floor. ’E reminded me of that bloke at the
The-ater Royal. ‘ It—it—wuz—a—accident. I—
for—forgive—the—barber man. Goodbye—l—l
g-r-r-r-h ! y
“’ls’ead fell back an’ ’is eyes closed, an’, but
that ’is chest was ’eavin’ as ’e panted for breath
after the death act, y’u’d ’ave thought ’e was
really gone. ■ • . , . , ,
“ ’is two pals got up an took orf their ats
reverently.
“ *’E’s ded ! ’ sed one.
“ ‘ All is over ! ’ sed t’other.
“ ‘ Good business ! ’ sed I.
“‘Y’u ’eartless wretch,’ they sed tergether.
‘ ’Owever did you cum to do it ? ’
“ 4 I’ll tell y’u,’ ses I. *’E didn’t deserve to live.
I did it a-purpose. Yus, I confess. There wuz
alius a touch of insanity m my family. Las’ time
’e was in ’e sed I cut ’im. I’ve bin broodm on
that ever since, an’ to-day ’is throat looked so fat
an’ temptin’, I jist couldn’t ’old meself m. It a
’ard on y’us blokes, though ! ’
“ ‘ ’Ow so ? ’ they both inquired, ’urnedly.
“ ‘ Why, I’ll ’ave to do fer the pair of y’us. If
this gits about it’ll ruin my bisness,’ ses I, sorrow-
ful. I fingered me razor tenderly, an’, turnin’
round, began to strop it.
“Immediately, with a wild yell, they both
dashes for the door (which was locked, y’u’ll
remember). I grabs me biggest razor, rumples
me ’air and makes meself look mad, an starts arter
’em, gnashin’ me teeth. Round an’ round the
rooms I chases ’em, they all the time yellin’
‘ Murder ! P’lice ! Eire ! ’ at the top o’ their
voices. As for ole Green, ’e lay in the middle o’
the saloon, tremblin’ all over and sweatin’ wi’ fear
At first, ’e didn’t dare to move; but arter we ’ad
all tramped over ’im ’bout twenty times each, ’e
could stand it no more, an’ jist as I was chasin’
the other two back inter the saloon for the
thirtieth time, up ’e jumps, wi’ a scream, an’ bar-
ricades ’imself be’ind the counter. ‘ It’s a joke ! ’
’e shrieked, as I come at ’im; ‘ only a joke ! a
’armless little joke ! ’
“By this time they all three was ’arf ded of
fright, an’ besides that there was a huge crowd
thumpin’ on the door outside, wantin’ to know
wjat was ’appenin’. In another minute they
would ’ave ’ad the buildin’ down, so I opens ther
door an’ explains the situation to ’em all. I must
say they ’ave a keen sense of ’umor ’ere, an’ the
time they give ele Green an’ ’is two cobbers, as
they crawled out all broken up and rumpled,
would have made a jackass envious. Well, that
was a splendid advert, for me—bin doin’ a roarin’
trade ever since. Ole Green an’ ’is mates settled
prompt for all the breakages, an’ next month,
when ’is lease runs out, th’ old cove is gwine ter
move away from ’ere. ’E carries a gun with ’im
when ’e goes out now—’is tw© pals ’avin’ promised
most faithful to kill ’im dead enuf fer an inquest.
“That’s it, sur ! Thruppence, thanks. Y’u
wouldn’t like to try a small bottle of my ‘ Hy-
draulic Hair Hus’?—— No? Alright, sur!
Good-day, sur, an’ thank y’u ! ”
ALF. BRASCH.


Could Not Sleep
Avar’s Sarsaparilla and Pills Bring Bask the Appetite, Insure Restful
Sleep, Give Energy. Felt Twenty Years Younger.
Mr. A. Moyes, Franklin St.,
Adelaide, So. Australia, sends us
liis photograph, arid says:
“ I feel sure that it is to Ayer's
Sarsaparilla and Pills that I owe
my good health. Previous to
taking this medicine, I had no
appetite and suffered from loss
of sleep. I had no energy to do
or to go anywhere. The doctor
told me to go away for a change.
I did so, and I did not feel any
better after coining back. I came
to the conclusion it was old.age
coming on me. Anyhow, I soon
altered my opinion after taking
the Sarsaparilla and Pills. Now
I can eat and sleep well; in fact,
I feel twenty years younger. And
when West I need never fear the
diet one has to put up with on the
fields, when my medicine-chest
contains a bottie or so of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and Pills.”
Why is it that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is such a strong nerve tonic ? Why is it
that this family medicine brings back the appetite, makes the nerves steady
and strong, and gives sound and refreshing sleep? The answer is easy.
Because it removes the impurities from the blood which irritate the nerves
and keep them in a restless and weakened condition. When fed with pure
blood, the nerves settle right down to their regular duties; the brain,
stomach, kidneys, and heart all do their work as nature intended.
To get these results you must take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other
kind. The market is full of imitations.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Purifies the Blood. Strengthens the Nerves.
Ayer's Pills keep the liver active. They aid the Sarsaparilla.
Pret>nr<»<V w<r TVP T c - AYER CO- • Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
r «
mi
Cm 4fsX Vi
pm
mmm mm
mem-m
mmm
m
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDBTEY.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
FILLS
Is the English (Jure lor GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking- any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Profit and Co., 229
Strand, Condon, and sold at Is. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
YOU CAN CURE AT HOME
the worst eases o£ Fits. , The treatment is
simple; the results certain. Proofs,atc.,free
Or Six Bottles, 31/- (enough lor 3 months),
Twelve Bottles, 50'-. carriage pale.
Mb. Gilbert Dale, 4a Snow Hill, Hanley,
Staffs., Eng-
T)rtinkennes£l
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston's Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE CIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the.
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
0X1! OF MANY:
Ravens/honpe, W.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no desire for drink, in fact have a
t'epugnance to the very idea of it.
Fours gratefully , R.G.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
AdrTress '
- WM. LANCSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
pS ft X CORO’S
g sS6** ce °f U
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia— PERRY & CO., 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S.W.— Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
68
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. IE & GO
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
a,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S*
IT
L
Caution. —Genmine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
• Kemedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOICHITIS,
DIAH.K.HtF.Aj &e, bears on
the Government Stomp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BRCWNC.
<THK ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 38 1888. My a;
"HI were asked which single medicine T should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
te beat recommendation.”
safe*
W£AK MADE STRONG !
A UR Electric Appliance
v pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Catalogue and Price List
Energy and Vigor.
Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney .
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
EED
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihowlong standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.. Melbourne
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
You have your Watch
Cleaned and Regulated.
| You are not ,so thoughtless as to expect it to.go on—-like the brook
| . “ for ever.”
I You know that the dust gets in ; the parts become clogged, and the *
delicate mechanism sometimes requires to be carefully cleaned
I and lubricated.
Do you pay the same atten-
tion to your Bodily Organs?
I Surely you are not so unreasonable as to expect the complicated
functions of your bodily system to go—year after year—without
regulation ; especially considering that you may perhaps be acting
contrary to wisdom in the matters of food, drink, habits, Ac.
BEECHAMS
PILLS
WILL RESTORE THE HARMONY OF ORGANIC
FUNCTION JUST AS SURELY AS A SKILFUL
HAND WILL MAKE YOUR WATCH KEEP TIME .
They will dean and regulate the whole machine,
for the foody is a most wonderful machine.
THE STOMACH will grow strong and easily able to carry on its
digestive processes.
THE LIVER will again be stimulated to healthy action, and bilious
disorders will cease to exist.
THE KIDNEYS, strengthened and cleansed, will promote purity of
blood, and freedom from that baleful uric acid which is the cause
of so many bodily ills.
In a word, BEECHAM’S PILLS will put your
Syst&m in Thorough Working Order, and
keep it going in healthy unison .
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price l/I|, and 2/9.
[l-3
>4
>6
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
| FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
T
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
They TOUGH the LIVE
Be Sure they are Carter's
BUSHMAN and BUCGANEI
Price Is. Id.
Pott Free.
A CAR Dm
DR. MARTEN, M.D., Edin.,
M.8.C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.G.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s leading Hospitals, may be consulted personally' or by letter,'FßEE, at his consulting rooms,
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY,
daily, from 10 to 2, and from 7to 9 p.m. (Sundays, 12 to 1.) He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confi-
dential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in all Diseases of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Genito-Urinary Complaints.
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. “The Diseases of
Men and Women ” ready July 10th. Apply at once.
f
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
DR. MARTIN, 1.D., “Elmley House/M5l Elizabeth-st*, City.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


INDIA RUBBER
hot water
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
LOWEST PRICES:
Size.
lOin. x 6in.
lOin. x 7in.
lOin. x Bin.
12in. x Bin.
12in. x lOin.
PRICE
Without Covers.
6s. 6d. each
7s. „
7s. 6d „
Bs.
Bs. 6d „
Complete
With Covers.
7s. 3d.
7s. 9d.
Bs. 3d.
9s.
9s. 6d.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^l
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
A Policy for the
Commonwealth.
PRICE, 6d. ; POSTED, Bd.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
•PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
3. & 3. MAXFIELD, Psora*., SHEFFIELD.
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Als* at—
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
KEMP’S PATE
AN DING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia,
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
If will stay on the sheep’s back as long; as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from if*
Manufacturers and Sole Agents :
FELTOII HBWMHE $ CO., MEHOHIC.
BLACK, MED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases):—
PRICK IN MELBOURNE _ „
4/-
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
P*r Oallon,
BRISBANE (E. Rich Ml Co., Ltd.) „
HOBART CWm. Crosby Ml Co.)
INCERSOLL-SERGEAHT ROCK DRILLS.
The Number of Ingerso/I-Sergeant Bock Drifts at work on the Goldfields of
Charters Towers and Ravenswood is ... ... ... ... fS2
All other makes ... ... ... .. 33
In other words S 3 per cent. of all the Drills in use on these fields are of the Ingersoll-Sergeant type «
Could there be a more conclusive argument as to which is the best Drill on the market ?
Ingersoll Rock Drills hold the record throughout the world* They have met and defeated hi fair
competition every drill brought against them, and have never failed to maintain their reputation for
doing the greatest amount of work at the least expense.
PRICES and PARTICULARS on application to
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HATS.
'
■y I 2 kMs
'-aA i
AVING specially selected from the world’s best
markets the latest in HARD FELT HATS, I am
* to offer values above the ordinary.
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2 —An equally fashionable
Hat, at S/6, in five different
shapes.
No. 3—A superior Hat, beauti-
fully finished, Pure Pur, at
10/6, in five of the latest
shapes worn.
No. 4 is a high-class Bowler, showing in ten distinct
shapes, Fashion Fancies, 1216, quality unsurpassed.
Country Customers post your orders to—
4. H. RUSSO NS,
171 Pitt St.,
Near G.P.O.
A NOVEL PRESENT.,^
ON receipt of F. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Set. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F, Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kins, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
Used your valuable Remedy for
COOGH & COLD
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success.**
J. Hall, School-house, E. Markham.
AGENIS,
ELLIOTT BROTHERS & 00,
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
IT AM.
Fixst-OmM
Storm
m AubtkaiiAMA.
o, 8160 .
1 Blab*.
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
«r» tho
Cocoa Handle «
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle •
tanna
te, 6i"x3J"xs
We are Direct Importers
and have
for Sale-
3:
o
z
CO
fall size s
foe all
purpose.)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
K. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 STREET, S^TIDIKrESIEr.
RAND AIR COMPRESSORS
Will develop 1 H.P.
Hour on 16lbs.
per
RAND ROCK DRILLS
Won 11 out of 12 Heats
at the World’s Contest in Johannesburg.
CATALOGUES and PARTICULARS ■from
'
N. GUTHRIDGE LB
71 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY
486 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
