

“GRAND SUPREME” BRANDY.
u
PIS”
3R. Gr. WATKINS SZ> 00.,
107 TCoiat Street, SycaasLoy-,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS amd GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fds
hobaHt.
—-sefer—
iadley s Orient (otBl.
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTIN
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. LudowicJ 4 Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND AND TO ARRIVE OF 8X jj O SLJ IVI ET D JP /"V ? Q
J y«BWiwW'''ariKnr-i—. - - IV IK w nlNGix OC v/ V/« O
Planing <£ Moulding Machines? Circular Saw Mills, General Woodworkers,
Deal & Flitch Frames, Band Mills, Vertical Boring Machines, Log Frames .
For llHustrated Lists
apply to Sole Agents,
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST„ SYDNEY
f
dsf
dsf
sdf
Cks
THE ROYAL,
EDISWAN LAMP.
I
mu
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
eh i m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch :
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
QjJC -fat tUaM&ti) '<secC ~Soilaiy
sd
Bathurst to Sydney, Creat Wallace Continental, Road Race.
Ist, «/. D. M‘Mahon
2nd, Fm A//sop
Rode Continental Tyres.
127 Miles without Puncture.
IW'
Ask for those Famous Tyres
for SVtotor Car or Cycle .
Ail Cycle Agents and Continental Tyre Depot, 7 Wynyard St., Sydney.
fsd
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
Mclntyre bro
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
f
u
sdf
DAILY
TREAT!
TOOHETS LTD.
BREWERS, WINE «fc SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
——
m
sdf
ftS© Other in
the World .
sdf
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABS
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price 21 s.
oar THE
THE FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1334.]
[Thursday, September 7, 1905.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CHEAP BOOKS.
All at Ssxpenc.. cacn, or Eightpenca Posted ; tG Post Freo for
„ . . Ten Shilling's, or lor O.ie Paii'v
Merriman, In Ivedar’s Tents ; Wood, Lady Adelaide ; Harraden KaH-iei-inp
Grier, Warden of the Marches ; Moore, Secret of the Court’- “ tofi ” lt; of ''**7 >
Battle ; Mathers, Venus Victrix ; Merriman, Velvet Glove’- Stewart 01 .’ ')' ll f lumson > Silent
March ; Merriman, Sowers ; Riddell, Above Suspicion • Hone ' Doilv r»iJ?^ na . Q uest . ; , * jotn ,i! n;4 ’
Lady Paramount ; Pemberton, Doctor Xavier ; Clifford’ Mrs Keith^Or/mo? I "m’ Vo '’, nK J’ a dily ; Hariand,
Blackmore, Cradock Nowell; Buchanan. Shadow of the wh /I- 00 for Him;
Hope, Rupert
>re, Cradock Nowell ; Buchanan, Shadow of the Sword • ChohnnnHe’i Jl^. rr Y a4 > J; 00 1,1
Heutzau ; Hope, Mr. Witt’s Wid ow ; M'Carthy, Hist, of Our Own Cottage ; „ ,
itions ; Ridge, George ana the General : Stewart m . b,..? 68 Darkest Hour ; W ells
; enant ;
Norris, Lord Leonard the Luckless. V a “ d C ° v
GEORGE ROBERTSON «& CO.
M*n*7ZZ * -**»««*•* oLace ; load, (Javalier
Mention one or two extra incase some be sold out.
PROP. LTD., 71 Castloreacgto Street,
Sydney.
Australian Art and Humour—
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . •
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Curb op
Bronchitis !
and In fluenza I
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
sdf
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE*’
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
»r HUDSON’S EUIviEftITHOL. JUJUBES
(RKGiSTKREn). CONTAINS HO CCCAiNS 08 OTHER POISONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/B, or
from the Manufacturer, 0. HUDSON, Oheinist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps, Sydney
K)epot • 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London,
THE RED PAGE.
IN THE NAME OF THE ARTIST
THERE is no denying that in N.S-
Wales the art of painting is still in a
very bad way. Year after year one
sees exhibitions in which work full
of interest and promise is mingled recklessly
with work that is utterly bad in conception
or execution, or with work in which real
merit is flawed and wasted by curious blunders
or shortcomings. But the promise never
reaches a really fine performance. The stan-
dard of the Art Society’s present exhibition is
no higher than that readied at the exhibitions
of five years ago or ten years ago. We are
merely marking time. There are possibly more
students painting up -to a tolerable level;
but the lack of any picture of outstanding im-
portance is as obvious as ever. This year
there is not even a picture good enough to
be purchased for the National Gallery.
Certainly, the Gallery trustees are willing and
eager to purchase any great work exhibited—
and if they were not there is a sufficient
public interest and public opinion to compel
them. Certainly, judging by the monstrous
purchases they have made in past years,
they are not difficult to please. But
what picture is there in the exhi-
bition that deserves to be hung per-
manently in a National Gallery worthy the
name ? The trustees, like other visitors,
have failed to find one; so, “ not to be
thought disagreeable,” they have spent a
hundred pounds in pleasant trifles without
any particular value.
It is open to serious question whether
public money should be frittered thus. The
Gallery endowment is not a very large sum,
considering what needs to be done with it; and
if the trustees decided to save every possible
penny in order to purchase works that would
be of undoubted value fifty years hence, we,
at least, should not feel inclined to blame
them. If those works were not Australian,
that could not be helped. The satisfaction
of the general public, and the education of
artistic students, might be held to compen-
sate for the loss of temporary assistance to
individuals. If the Gallery is to become a
receptacle for the inferior work of beginners,
on the ground of “ encouragement to local
art,” the public will be right to complain.
On the other hand,"considering to what an
extent the trustees have wasted the money
spent on foreign woik, it seems unreasonable
that local men should be robbed of the drib-
lets that fall to their share. The blots on
the Australian Court are obvious ; but the
blots on the ot her Courts cost a great deal
more money. E. du Faur, who was one of
the old men who complacently -patted each
other at the Art Society’s banquet, might
have reflected, before he joined in the
chorus of self-laudati6n, how often , the
public funds spent by authority of him-
self or his colleagues have purchased
rubbish at high prices. It is true
that the London board has been chiefly re-
sponsible, and that in more recent purchases
there has been a relation between price and
value more profitable to us. That does not
alter the fact that the Gallery has been
duped with pictures that are doubtfully worth
a tithe of the money paid for them ; and we
do not remember hearing or reading E. du
Faur’s indignant protest. His enthusiasm
and knowledge have been of public
service; but the blunders made during
his term of authority are glaring. The
Lond. St. James’s Gazette, recently bemoan-
ing the fall in gallery-picture prices, said the
evil results to Academic purveyors had been
postponed for some time by utilising the
colonial galleries ; but now, alas ! even
“ these last strongholds of ignorance ” could no
longer be relied on by the poor British artist.
&
The malefic influence of the old men is one
of the reasons for the stagnation in N.S.
Wales art. We should be last to refuse the
honour and credit due to the founders and
organisers of twenty years ago, and they
should be first to agree with the necessity of
their retirement from the field when their
inspiration is obviously exhausted. Early
paladins such as Lister and Ifaplyn and
Ashton have done useful work in their
day. Lister’s honest, conscientious painting,
within the limits of his talent, is still a
lesson to the bright youths who fail to
recognise that everything worth doing in art
is done at the cost of hard preliminary
labour. And it would do Lister and local
art a world of good if he would take
a year’s holiday for study in Europe
and America. Daplyn has occasionally led us
into pleasant sentimental landscapes touched
with a hint of the dexterity of his French
models—and KXfl. a year that he draws from
the Govt, subsidy would be better spent in
improving the instruction given to students.
A paid secretary isn’t needed all the year
round for one exhibition in September ; and
the register of students’ attendances could be
as easily kept by the instructor. Ashton
has organised and painted and taught and
caballed, and his pictures have been sold to
the Gallery at good prices, and we should give
some of them back to him with very great
pleasure for nothing. Of his three notable
students—S. Long, H. Ashton, and G-.
Lambert, the first has apparently discovered
that it is of little use painting for exhibition
until technical rudiments have been mas-
tered by the toil of assiduous years ; the
second has relinquished painting, having
possibly gained an inkling 'of the same
great truth ; and the third, it is reported,
found in Europe that lie had to unlearn
his methods and begin anew.
A Russian visitor who travelled over
Australia not long ago came to the conclu-
sion that this country needs a Prophet.
By “prophet” he meant a man with the
brains, character, and emotional energy
needed , to preach national ideals into the
heads of the people, a man who could sway
the crowd to follow him along a lofty path.
Art in N.S, W. wants a ptophet too a pro-
phet of sure knowledge, high ideals, and
courageous enthusiasms—-to unite scattered
forces and set twilight-groping disciples
on the right road. Lacking a pro-
phet, one could be satisfied with a
teacher. It is common to hear that
Bernard Hall’s ■ methods . are cramped,
taut he imposes his own ideas upon his
Victorian pupils, and so on. Well, one can
say this in return : that lie does seem to
have grasped the elementary truth that exact
drawing, sincere colouring, sound composi-
tion, and correct perspective are the founda-
tion of good painting : and that he has the
strength and pertinacity to try and make his
Students walk before they run. Once they
have learned their craft, obviously they can
develop their art in any direction to the
extent of their capacity. The trouble in
Sydney is that the young men are all
4 ‘ Artists ” and none of them are craftsmen.
Apparently the best teacher, in the cur-
rent notion, is the man who in the
shortest period can get his students’ work
hung at an exhibition, with a Gallery
purchase in prospect. It won’t do : there is
no salvation that way. The last ten years in
A.S. Wales are strewn with our promising
young men’s “failures”—and much more
with their teachers’ failures. One idea after
another has been tried : any idea but the
idea of hard, steady, persistent work at the
rudiments of the craft. As Wiegaud said of
his organ pupils, “Australians are too im-
patient. They want to practise two hours a
day for a couple of years, and then to be
masters.” It is the same with painting. One
often hears talk of the poor reward ; but
how many have earned any reward ?
JS
There is no prospect of improvement unless
the Government takes a hand. One can give
no decisive reason why the Government
should take a hand, unless this : that it pays
400 L a year for the benefit chiefly of a select
circle of the Art Society, and it might as well
get honest value for its money in a National
School under an instructor able to drive his
students through the elementary work, and
capable of inspiring them to something
better when the time comes. Or there
is no decisive reason except this : that
the National Gallery receives a subsidy
partly for the promotion, of local art,
and an efficient National School is
the best instrument by which local art
can be promoted. Apparently the matter
depends upon the initiative or inertia of
Education-Minister O’Conor. It will cost
some trouble to make the required change,
and need some judgment to get the right
man to direct the new scheme of operations ;
and these have not been forthcoming.
\v hen Rat McDurmer, in Lawson’s rhyme,
stood for Parliament to represent the town
of God-Forgotten, Lis nominator declared :
The art of God-Forgotten has no represen-
tative in Parliament. Seemingly Minister
O’Conor hasn’t “ got the pluck.”
It is easier to do nothing—and it is more
“agreeable.” The Art Society is proud of
being “ agreeable. ” It merely wants to be
let alone in its incompetency, and to spend
the public money as tlie Council pleases, and
it would never quarrel with a soul. It will
hold its exhibitions yearly, with the work of
the Council and the Oouucil’s private pupils
hung in excellent places ; it will ask the
Governor to open the exhibitions, and ex-
press genuine sorrow when he does n’t come,
because the Governors patronage “helps
the sales, you know ” ; and it will give
musical tea-parties among the exhibits till its
last gasp. All these deeds are confessedly
admirable : why then should peoole be
“disagreeable” to the Art Society—so
affable, so anxious to please ? Well, it seems
a singular thing, but some people are still
under the impression that the Art Society
exists and is subsidised from the public
treasury in order to promote Ait; and if the
Art Society won’t give us Art we don’t give
twopence for its royal charter and its
musical tea-parties. In its excess of agree-
abilifcy, the Art Society this year held a
banquet which, as the President carefully
pointed out, was (this time) paid for out of the
banqueters’ own pockets. We don’t want
banquets either, unless we can get Art along
with them : we had rather see the Art Society
starving and painting —painting pictures that
are really worth while. Give us pictures to
praise—pictures of Australian life with the
strong sincerity of Millet; pictures of Aus-
tralian scenery with the transporting rapture
of Turner pictures of heroism and beauty
to inspire and ennoble the citizens of a new
nation, and oh ! how gladly we shall dispense
with tea and patronage.
RECFIVED
Glenanaar, by P. A. Sheehan (Lond., Long-
man’s; 2s. (id.) Glimpses of Irish character, with
rather an Irish than a literary appeal. The story
hinges upon peasants’ hatred of an informer. A
page of history is taken in the “Doneraile con-
spiracy,” and truth apparently is but little varied
iu the author’s recital of the evil that befell
“Cloumper Daly’s” daughter and her son. By
way of America and a woman’s heart (?) the book
closes comfortably.
A Robin's Song and Other Verses, by Mary
Scott (Lond., Constable; 2s. (id. net.) Verses of
sentiment, for any girl’s dreaming en attendant
A Doctor in Corduroy , by Max Baring (Lond.,
Greening ; 2s. 6cZ.). A realistic story of Eng.
village life, with its share of vernacular humour.
The first half, based on childish reminiscences, is
simple and good ; in the second half the author
leaves memory for inferior invention. (The Red
Lion’s landlord speaks of the Enemy : “ Water in
the sea be wondrously magnificent, and it move
ab,:ut like a field of corn ; water in the river be
useful, it turns Stiggin’s mill; water in a pond is
all right to wash with, if it ain’t tew muddy ; hut
water in a man ! —well, it’s water, and it’s out of
place.” This remark was greeted with general
cheering.)
A Marriage in Burmah, by Mrs. M. Chan-
Toon (Lond., Greening; 2s. (id.) This is a fresh
kind of story, with “ cocktails with gin, chartreux,
crushed ice, and cayenne pepper” in it—and
numerous other drinks. Some time after the
drinks, the hero sucks “many limes covered with
salt.” The heroine, in presence of all the drinks,
reflects that “ a fustian order of mind was, per-
haps, Fate’s kindest gift.” When they part, he
has no money to give her :
“ That does not matter,” she interposed, quickly : “ but
you can do one thing much more important, if you will.”
She glanced at him earnestly.
“ What is that?” he enquired.
“ Promise me to limit .yourself to two wh’sky-and-sodas
in a day* however much you may want more.”
There was.a silent pause, broken only by the bells of a
parsing hansom.
“ I promise,” he answered.
“ Solemnly V” she asked, and she held out her hand in
confirmation.
“ Solemnly,” he echoed, and clasped her fingers tightly
in his. She smiled a little then, and they sat on in silence
for awhile, each busy with many thoughts.
This passage isn’t “comic relief,” but a very
serious episode. The unusual hero is a Burman
who comes,to London and studies law, succeeding
brilliantly, and taking the unusual heroine (a wild
Irish girl, apparently) back with him to Rangoon.
There the herd’s brilliancy is lost in mixed drinks,
and the heroine’s sad experience points the book’s
moral against mixed marriages. The picture of
life in Burmah is curious, and the heroine’s
naivete is charming.
The Origin of the Universe, or Revelation Up-
to-Date, by Theo. Gum (Melb. ; Co-operative
P.rint). Another pamphlet by Our Prophet; but,
despite the title, the revelation is in greater part
two years old at least. The Prophet’s dogmas
seem to have become fixed, and he exhibits a
regrettable tendency -to repeat preceding pam-
phlets. God had already been pigeon-holed as
“not omnipotent in the absolute sense,” though
“for all necessary and useful purposes he is
practically omnipotent.” It seems a pity to ram
a deity farther into a pigeon-hole in successive
pamphlets. If an Australian Prophet wishes to
keep his disciples solid, his prophecy must exhibit
continually-no v.el features. It is of no use running
last year’s Cup over again this year. We want a
fresh Cup every year, and a fresh prophecy.
«.
In The Red Funnel A. McArthur tells stories of
Maoriland magistracy :
A steamer was at a wharf, and a young woman put her
head out of a porthole. A man promptly kissed her. The
police arrested somebody, who protested that he was not
the guilty man. The Bench, however, fined him 201.,
remarking that females must be protected, and that if
they had only been sure he was the culprit they would
have fined him 50 1.
In committing a patient to a lunatic asylum, the M.L.
magistrate calls to his assistance two medical men who
. certify to “ (1) Indications of lunacy observed by myself.”
Under this heading a doctor wrote, “I have-been his
medical adviser for three years,” etc.
A fireman had robbed a man of his watch and chain.
The occurrence was seen by another man, who gave
evidence. Accused asked witness where he was when the
watch and chain were taken. The reply was “ three or
four ya r - away.” “ That’s a lie,” said the accused, “ for
there ■ ~s not a living soul in sight when I took the
water ' Three months ! ,
A M.L. judge, with his wife, was visiting a lunatic
asylum. They entered the part set apart for female
patients, and immediately one of these ladies threw her
arms around the judge, exclaiming “ Oh, my dear ; it’s a
long time you’ve been jn coming, but I’ve got you now 1 ”
The judge’s wife promptly tapped him on the shoulder
and said. “ Come away out of this ; I see this is no place
for you.”
Ever heard of Vincent Van Gogh, a mad
Flemish painter, who died a suicide in 189 G, aged
37? French magas. remind us of him; French
critics speak of his dazzling genius ; an Amsterdam
publisher issues a collection of reproductions of
his work. This little anecdote is of a savour. In
a gay fit he cut off one of his ears, cleaned it, put
it in an envelope, and carried it to a house where
you can find, lacking a sweetheart, an acquaint-
ance every time. Said he to the chap on watch :
“Here you are: take this in remembrance of
me ’’—and went gaily home again. Fancy a
painter like that living in... Dunedin, for example.
FLOTSAM
A new French poet, Valentine de Saint-Point,
gives us a passionate cry of Youth to Life :
Je veux vibrer A tout: au vent Uger qui passe,
A I’eau qui coule et bruit...
Je veux mordre aux fruits m(irs, me griser de soleil,
De clartis, to’ alanguir aans toutes les ivresses...
Mon corps ardent frissonne et tremble de desir,
S’cirque vers V inconnu, aide de toutes jievres.
Or very freely:
I long- to thrill to all, to all: to the loitering breeze,
To the stream that sings as it flows...
I long to bite in the ripest fruits, to be drunk with the
sun
And the wide clear spaces, to languish in every ecstasy...
My burning body quivers and yearns with desire,
Curving towards the unknown, greedy of every flame . .
And then, “ h la Mort ” :
Un jour, lorsque j’aurai tout aime, tout connu,
Su la suSlimite du mat de la Caresse,
En superoe cadeauj’irai vers Vlnconnu,
Te porter ma beaute, te doniier via jeunesse.
And then one day. when all that is I’ve loved and known,
Known every pang sublime of all the world’s embraces,
I ’ll fling myself in gift superb to the unknown,
And bear thee, Death, my youth, and dower thee with my
graces.
That, now, is how Youth should feel and talk—
with insatiable appetite, with ecstatic aspiration
(one reflected iu washing a yellow local Art student
leaning against the Pitt-street air and whiffing a
contemptible cigarette from lungs that one
good, deep breath would have paralysed).
The Lond. publishing firm of Grant Richards
was lost recently in a pond of troubles, with T.
W. Crosland ihoaning loudly in the adjacent
mud. Mrs. “E. Grant Richards” has now
founded a new firm, with Grant as manager.
The Adelaide, branch of the Geographical So-
ciety of Australasia maybe congratulated on its
purchase of the famous York Gate Library of
geography and travel. There are 6000 volumes
and pamphlets, many of them relating to this
country. The collection was formed by S. W.
Silver, and was the subject of a spedal catalogue
by E. A. Petherick, whose work in connection
with Australasian bookselling and bibliography
will long be remembered.
Once more... Frederic Harrison, away from Posi-
tivism and his pets, is soundest of English critics.
In the July Fortnightly he discusses Art, and adds
authority to the contention that a mere pattern,
however admirably painted, is not a picture,
though it is the essential foundation of a picture.
A picture has not only to be painted well, it must be a
thing that is worth painting—interesting, original, beau-
tiful) imaginative. As Tennyson said, you might write a
very correct Wordsworthian line—a Mister Wilkinson, a
clergyman—but this is not poetry. An old man with
sticks, a sailor boy in a boat, a girl feeding a bird, are
honest facts, which you may honestly paint—but they
don’t make a picture. Millet’s Angelus has gone round
the world, because it is more than an old peasant and his
wife. It is a solemn and pathetic poem. To make a work
of art something more than “ values ” is wanted,
“ Painters wamt cultivated brains as well as nimble
fingers.”
“As an author,” says G. B. Shaw, “all I ask
from a publisher on the royalty system at six
shillings is a modest twenty per cent, or so, a three
years trial, an agreement drafted by myself, and
an unaffected bookseller.” And he continues :
I don’t want a compulsory partner for life. I don’t
want a patron. I don't want an amateur collaborator.
I don’t want a moralist. I don’t want a Telemachus. I
don’t want a pompous humbug, nor a pious humbug, nor
a literary humbug. I cap dispense with a restatement of
the expenses, disappointments, trials, and ingratitudes
that pave the publisher’s weary path to a destitute old
age in a country house, with nothing to relieve its mono-
tony but three horses, a Mercedes automobile, and a flat
in London. I have heard it so often !
I don’t expect absolute truth, being myself a professional
manufacturer of fiction ; indeed, I should not recognise
parrect'truth if it were offered to me. I don’t demand
entire honesty, being only moderately honest myself.
What I want is a businesslike gambler in books, who will
give me the market odds when we bet on the success of
my latest work.
A paragraph from Motoring Illustrated :
One of the consequences of the low birth-rate in France
is that there are not so many children to play “ last
across ” on roads frequented by motor-cars.
How’s that for pure cynicism ?
Torn Roberts’s alleged picture of the opening of
the Commonwealth Parliament received some
sharp criticism in the Senate. The Govt, pre-
sented a bill for four prints of the picture, 92Z., to
the order of too-good-natured Barton. According
to Syd. Telegraph report, Senator Neild protested
against the extravagance of paying 23d each for
prints which had been openly offered in the
Senate for 3gs.
He would not pay for a frame for the picture, because
it did not represent what took place.
Senators : Hear, hear.
Senator Matheson : Simply a fictitious picture.
Senator Neild said it was simply a fancy picture, which
reminded one of a band of smugglers trooping out of a
cave. A feature of the picture was that persons who
were not present on the occasion it referred to were
represented in the picture. He would like to know who
was going to pay the freight and insurance on the origi-
nal picture and the fare of the persons in charge during
its tour round the States, which was for the benefit of a
syndicate which was afterwards to sell prints. That was
what it meant. (Hear, hear.) He should be sorry to see
the Commonwealth being made an advertising medium
for any syndicate. (Hear, hear.)
Surely Senator Neild is n’t “ in the picture ” ?
A.G.S.


sd
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Pat Stock Salesmen,
—fit* ' SYDNEY.
fsd
fsd
And ail Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., lm
Absolutely the Best Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS for SPOBTIHC GOODS and TOBACCO.
f
Postage on 1 Bat,
Is. N.S.W. :
MICK
SIMMONS.
CRICKET.
MICK
SIMMONS.
MEN’S BATS.
BUSSEY’S All Cane, ss; Cane and Rubber, 6s 6d ; DEMON DRIVERS, 21s, 25s
CLAPSHAW’S All Cane, 6s, 6s 6d, 7s Bd, 8s 3d, 10s 6d ; Cane and Rubber, 15s 6d; Spiral
Spring-, 21s
AYRE’S All Cane, 13s, 15s ; Caneand Rubber, 17s, ISs ; Special C. 8.8., 13s Gel ; Standard
Driver, 19s ; INTERNATIONAL, 20s ; INTERNATIONAL IMPROVED, 24s
WISDEN’S All Cane, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d; LORD’S DRIVER, 17s 6d ; CRAWFORD
EXCELLER, 21s ; Selected, 25s
COBBETT’S All Cane 10s 6d,11s 6d ; STAR DRIVER, 20s ; JUBILEE DRIVER, 22s 6d
WARSOP’S All Cane, 12s 6d ; Cane and Rubber, 16s, ISsOd ; IMPROVED CONQUEROR,
20s, 25s
SYKE’S All Cane, 8s 6d; “A 1 ” Cane and Rubber, 14s 6d ; YORKSHIRE DRIVERS,
21a 25s
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S All Cane, 8s 3d, 8s 6d, Us, 14s 6d ; Cane and Whalebone,
18s, 19s, 19s 6d
BARTLETT’S All Cane, 12s 6d, 15s ; “ ALL ENGLAND,” 18s ; REPERCUSIVE, 19s 6d
DARK’S All Cane, 10s 6d ; LORD’S DRIVER, 17s 6d ; CORK HANDLE, 24s
NICOLL’S Automatic Handles, 15s 6d, 18s 6d ; Rubber or Chamois Covered, 22s
BRYAN’S “ PRESIDENT,” 18s ; “ PRESIDENT ” SELECTED, 21s
G. G. HEARNE’S All Cane, 14s 6d ; “ QUICK SPRING,” 22s 6d ; Selected, 27s 6d
GUNN & MOORE’S All Cane, 8s Od ; “ CANNON,” 21s; W.G. Selected, 25s ; “ AUTO-
GRAPH,” 27s
STUART SURRIDGE All Cane, 13s 6d, 17s 6d ; RAPID DRIVERS, 16s 6d, 21s
LILLYWHITE & FROWD’S All Cane, 16s Cd, 19s ; SPECIAL DRIVER, 22s 6d
SPECIALLY SELECTED CANE and DOUBLE RUBBER, 12s 6d
YOUTHS’ BATS.
Sizes 3 4 5 6 Sizes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
.. 3/6 4/- 4 9 5/3 PLAIN .. 9d 1/- 1/3 1/6 2/- 2/6 4'-
.. 4/- 4/9 5/3 6/- POLISHED 1/- 1 3 1/6 2/- 2/6 3/- '
.. 6/6 8/6 9/6 10/6
HALF CANE
ALL CANE..
SELECTED
SIX SEAM
LEATHER BALLS.
PRACTICE, 5|0z.,9d ; MATCH, s|oz., Is 3d.
Standard Match, sJoz., 2s 6d.
Extra Special, Gut Sewn, 3s 6d.
The above Balls are good value for use on
turf wickets.
“M.S.” Special Match, Gut Sewn, 4s 6d, 6s 3d.
For use on hard wickets these Balls cannot
be equalled in price or quality.
DUKE’S Practice, sJoz., 5s ; P.K.D., 6s 3d.
Match, sJoz., 5s 6d ; Best, 7s 6d.
WISDEN’S Match, 4s 3d ; Crown, 6s 3d, 7s 6d
COMPOS. Boys, 3d, 6d, 9d, 1/- each.
Men’s, 1/-, 1/8, 2 3, 3/-, 3/6, 4/3 each
Postage on 1 Ball, 3d.
HP
STUMPS WITH BAILS.
Men’s Brass Top, Steel Shod, 5/9, 7/9, 8/6 set
Men’s Revolving-Top, Steel Shod, 10/6,12/6 set
Men’s Ash and Blackwood, 2/-, 3/-, 3/9 set
Youths, 6d, 1/-, 1/6, 2/6, 3/-, 4/6 set
LEG GUARDS.
Men’s White Canvas, 4/6 pair
Men’s Tan (continuous straps) 5/11, 7/9pr.
Men’s Skeleton Tan, 10/6 pair
Youths’ White, 4/6 ; Tan, 5/- pair
GAUNTLETS.
Men’s Buff, 3/11 ; Tan, 5/-pair
Men’s Gold Cape, 6/6, 9/6 pair
Men’s, with Black Rubber, palm, 7/6, 9/6 pair
Men’s Black Rubber, padded finger tips, 11/-, 14/6 pair
BATTING GLOVES.
Men’s Buff, felt protection, 4/6 pair
Men’s Buff, rubber protection, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6
Patent Surry Shield, 4/- each
FXTLL ILLUSTRATED IjIST FREE
5 ID
The Great
MONTE
CARLO
GAME.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
Price—
10/6
POST
FREE
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
an
PUNCHING
BALLS.
Swinging- Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
11s 6d,155, 18s, 20s,
21s, 255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s Gd, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s 6d each
DErfc&'Y
3 6
HAN&ICA&
STANbARfc
7/3
Ascot
2/e
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. GYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Eenshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35 S
TENNIS BALLS.
doz.
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. lls 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
sdf
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W.; is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, Cs, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men s Special Vaiue <r C. 8.8.” Boz. Ficrhfcinir
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set: 6ozr,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
Illustrated Sports, Fishing: Tackle and Tobacco Lists
Post Free
£3
c
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross boll K,-omen's
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b ’“ °
sdf
Folding Orchard Gun f
410 g.
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g. side lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length over all 38Jin,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9 N.B.W. :
3/2 Interstate.
35s
We can now
supply these
guns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights
A°fc!on, ISin Blued Steel Barrel,
to 300yds., Bolt
Walnut Stock.
Long Cartridges.
"THE MAINE"
f?iT/e
<Sheu/ing Q/f/e AparT.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
Sc SONS’
D. 8.8 L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Keal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Gross Bolt
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Pore-end’
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
sd
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
HOLLIS & SONS' “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN v>
gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s” steel barrels, both choke ’side
lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end
Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin. cartridges. GUAR iwrirm?
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the
Postage, 2a 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
£l2 12s
MICK SIMMONS.
2 6, 100 ; 21/-, 1000.
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22
shots in four seconds, weight
sJlb. .. •
* repeating
Calibre, fires 10
£4 10s,
Postage : N.S.W., 2/- ; Inter-State, 3/8.
MICK SIMMONS.
, THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
. , , . left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end y» Postage •
pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. .. * 4-OS |
2/9 ; Inter-State. 5/2.
fVHCK SIMMONS
r ir=
• •. V •
ms,
vA C-
>s
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, about 31b
V KS - W -> 1/3 5 Inter-State, 2/2.
W, « C £ ESTE ,fI® S ' Rifle > 1902 Model - 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V
Sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 241 b
REMliMr>xr. M P «l tag o’-i S 3d N " S - W - 5 2s 2d Inter-State.
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F. 20in
barrel, weight 3/lb. Postage : N.S.W., 1/6 ; Inter-State, 2/8!
/ss.
18/6
16/6
CONICAL BALI.
AMMXJKTXTIOKT,
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
?™ED No. 1,6 d 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, is 9d , No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s
Rifle Cartridges ,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
» 22 Short
i, 22 Long-
„ 22 Long- Rifle .. ’ [
~ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $ 1000
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
. and Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
SINGLE ROOM : For One Guest, 2/6 per day, or 15/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests, 5/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM: For one Guest (with Full Board), 6/- per day, or 30/- per week.
DOUBLE ROOM : For Two Guests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or .£3 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance : MARKET STREET, SYDNEYa
fsd
f
MACHINE LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“ New Rival,” loaded with Black powder, and
“ Repeater,” loaded with Smokeless powder.
You only have to shoot them to prove their
superiority. They shoot stronger c.nd reload
better than any other cartridges on the
market, because more care and science
have been put into their manufacture.
Ask for Winchester Machine Loaded “New
Rival” or “Repeater” cartridges at your
dealer’s. They have Winchester patent cor-
rugated heads and are thoroughly waterproof.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS EVERYWHERE
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
la Bulk and Botble arc universally acknowledged
*X - 0 EJEJ3TY COIVCI'BXIXIOKr.
WINES “• “ * °' iy * SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS* CORDIALS* <Sm.
Kent Brewery, SIDNEY,
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Post Free.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
IT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT.' Without it you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT' WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
toy J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR MSSMUSSEN^ciaiw
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
t TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men AUALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Merges, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Dost
Manhood, a.nd Strengthen the Spine, Brain sa.sT.el Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
ps ■ sra sST PI3 B G£ Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
SiLwliy Up 5i S s—i f Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 66. Course, 23/6
LiiVer Pills Cure Costlveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Brandies : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTGN QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. * HANS PET „ HASMU/BtN .
Indigestion & Rheumatism.
A THOROUGH CURE.
The Case of
Mr. J. TYE,
(By a Special .Reporter.)
The public will be interested to
learn now it came about that Mr.
Jacob Tve threw oil' a serious illness
that had overtaken him, and full de-
tails of the fortunate event will be
found in the following conversation,
which took place at his residence, JNo
19 Victoria-street, Alexandria :
Mr. Tye : “Two years last month l
was laid up with rheumatism and in-
digestion, and if over a man felt that,
his term on this planet was just about
ended it was I. Such acute pains as
those which had entered my shoulders
and arms you could not imagine, and
1 felt so still' and sore that it took
me all my time to get out of bed in
the morning, let alone work."
Repo ter : “Had you been suffering
from those complaints for any length
of time ?”
Mr. Tye : “Yes ; far too long tor my
liking, and I earnestly hope that 1
shall never have such experiences
again. In one way 1 would rather be
dead than go through the same
agony, for it was really too dreadful
for words. I tried all sorts of lini-
ments for the rheumatism, but even
temporary relief did not come from
them ; and as for taking medicine in-
ternally —well, it was not my fault
that 1 did not pet better, for 1 took
plenty of it. For months my diges
tive organs were on strike' —wouldn t
do their work at all, in fact—and
there is no doubt that the nossibilitv
of getting well again seemed very re-
mote. It was an extraordinary thing
if for half a day my head was not
aching, and 1 do not think anybody
could be more troubled with giddiness
than 1 was. It was a peculiar feeling,
as if I was on the point of fainting,
and what also assisted in adding to
my physical troubles was a sensation
in my chest as if the breathing tubes
were clogged up. Of a morning the
taste 1 had in my mouth was enough
to turn one sick, but I had enough of
that as it was, for after every meal 1
vomited the food up again almost di-
rectly, and getting as thin as 1 did
was only a natural consequence.”
Reporter : “Perhaps you ate too
heartily, and took more food than the
weakened condition of your stomach
could withstand ?”
Mr. Tye : “There was no fear of that
for my appetite was too poor. JNo ; if
i only took a couple of biscuits I
would vomit them up again, so you
can see what a critical state 1 was in.
One day I was seized with cramps all
over me, and 1 had to come home, and
lie up for a couple of weeks. Oh, I
thought J. was done for then, and the
way my loins used to ache was some-
thing fearful. 1 was so restless that I
could not get half as much sleep as I
wojokted—iuo+. dozing off in fits and
starts tine —and I never slept but what
1 had dreams of a most repulsive char-
acter ; that my nerves were all broken
down was quite evident from the way
in which 1 used to tremble if anything
out of the way occurred, and I became
the victim of an uncontrollable cranki-
ness that used to arise on the least,
provocation. Truly, 1 got excited and
bad tempered sometimes for nothing,
although 1 tried hard enough not to,
and the longer I sutiered the more dis-
mal in mind I became. I felt that 1
had no desire for anything—no amuse-
ment, no work, no company —nothing
at all, in fact, except to lie down and
remain as quiet as possible. Many a
day 1 came home with a sinking feel-
ing, which induced me to say that I
Wanted some nourishment, but directly
it was placed before me I’d turn
against it. But there was something
else that worried me a great deal.”
Reporter : “Yes ; what was that ?”
Mr. Tyo : “My heart, for the way it
palpitated, especially if I had been ex-
citing myself in the Jeast. was some-
thing- terrible, and when I retired at
night, after lying down a little while
it would start fluttering in a most dis-
tressing manner. Naturally enough L
thought l had some form of heart dis-
ease. but soon after accepting a
friend's advice, and starting on a
course of Clements Tonic, all doubts,
on that question were settled, for the
heart's action became as regular as it
could be. That was a great, relief to
tnv mind, 1 can tell you, and didn't I
feel delighted to know that at last L
had got a remedy that was really able
to do me some good ? Don't lor a mo-
ment think that L am overdrawing my
story, as 1 have no reason lor doing
so, and it is nothing but the plain
truth when l tell you that Clements
Tonic actually saved my life, for when
l started on it 1 was almost too weak
to move, and I bad certainly nothing
to expect from any other medicine!
Nothing J had hitherto tried could
lessen in the slightest degree my rheu-
matic pains, but I can honestly say
that Clements Tonic gave me relief in
a few weeks, and by continuing with
the same remedy 1 was freed from
those torments altogether. Oh, how
thankful 1 was for all that, yet other
benefits still awaited me."
.Reporter : “In respect to your di-
gestion, 1 suppose V"
Mr. Tye : “In every possible way I
benelited by the use of Clements Tonic,
and I reckon there is nothing in crea-'
tion to equal it for giving an appetite
to a sick person. Why, Clements Tonic
made me eat so that 1 never felt satis-
fied, and it was a healthy appetite,
too, for 1 never felt uncomfortable af-
ter eating. And weren’t my people sur-
prised at the way I was coming round
again—right back from the grave. 1
might say—and what a treat it was
to feel some vigour and strength run-
ning through my frame once more. My
nerves were settled and invigorated to
a remarkable degree, and it was not
long before 1 ceased turning about at
nights instead of sleeping soundly, and
my sleep was not marked by frightful
dreams as was previously the case. No;
in every way 1 had improved beyond
recognition, my sunken cheeks having
filled out, and there was an air of ac-
tivity about me that had been lacking
for months past. Constipation had
troubled me considerably, but by tak-
ing Ur. Fletcher’s pills with the Cle-
ments Tonic 1 soon got. over that dif-
ficulty permanently, and from the day
1 was cured over two years ago my
health has been as sound as a boll. 1
ought to make special mention of the
promptitude with which Clements To-
nic stopped the vomiting after meals,
and when that was done I made
wholesale progress, and soon lost
every pain and ache.”
Reporter : “Well, if you are agree-
able your narrative will appear in the
papers
Mr. Tye : “And I trust every sulferor
in the land may read it. Certainly,
publish the facts I’ve given you how
and when you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION'.
I, JACOB TYE. of 19 Victoria-
street. Alexandria, in tbe State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare, that I have
carefully read the annexed dooument, consist-
ing: of lour folios and consecutively numbered
from oue to four, and that it. contains and
is a true and faithful account of my ill-
ness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements —which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment : and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously bcllcv-
ig the same to be true, and by virtue of the
..rovUions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo this
tenth day of November, one thousand nine
nundred and four, before me,
JOHN DUNNING, J.P.
FRE
Ladies’<SsGent.’s WATCHES & CHAINS
Birthday RINGS,
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets—FßEE. A
Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs from to
Don't throw your money away. If you want
, a watch that will equal for time'any solid gold watch
made, send us your name and address at once, and
we will send you h boxes of our famous New Life Elec-
tine Vegetable Pills to sell at 1-a box—a grand remedy
1 and cure for all weak conditions of the blood, kidney
| and liver trouble, a cure for constipation and weak
nervous disorders, a tonic and a life builder. Our
pills are genuine, and are carefully manufactured
1 from the very best drugs. They are easy to sell
I Send us your order at once, and we will send you the
' 8 boxes, postage paid. Wheu sold you send us our
money, 8/-, and rve will send you yourprize. Weare
► giving these watches and other prizes to quickly in-
} troduce our pills, and when you receive your premium
' we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand opportunity to get a fine Watch and
Chain Free. Send us your Name and Address at once. You take no risk.
I Ash St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
°2iey
**tea
'V s -#’.
iiill
sdf
ARE YOU BALD ?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAPILLA HAUL TONIC will make that “ down ” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capita. 2/6 a bott e;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W.
Hichakds, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W*


3V
%
If it’s
Consumption
The best present yon can
take home is a bottle of
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It quiets the cough, makes
breathing easy, and heals the
lungs. And it cures, even
advanced cases. Make no
mistake. Be sure and get
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the
standard cough remedy of
the world. Sold for 60 years.
Beware of imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Fills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell. Mess., U.S-A*
Hautiiaway s se?
Peerless
Gloss
puts a permanent gloss on boots and
shoes—a shine that outshines all other
shines ; a brightness that is not dulled
by a little damp, hut remains as long as
actual dirt and mud can be warded off.
It is this great and special quality that
that makes it worthy of its name
“ Peerless ” ; that is, absolutely without
an equal. Famed for forty years, it is still
pre-eminently the best shoe polish that
has ever been invented. It adds to the
life of a shoe by its preservative qualities,
moreover, and is so easy to use that it
is but the work of a moment to apply it.
Sold by all Boot & Shoe Dealers & at all General Stores
IMPARTS A SPLENDID BRILLIANCE.
C. L. HAUTHAWAY &> SONS, 346 , Congress. St.,
Boston , Mass.. U.S.A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
& (Kegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
pn
SS
DAY
Mm 4s
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: " ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
sdf
BALSAMIC
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OP ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price 6ci., Post Free.
Prom Coombe Lodge, reckham, London, S.E., England
upBD
KQOPi
n
f
n
to
f
a
A HOME TOPIC*
* * *
The Marvellous. .
Curative Properties
of . . .
Bonnington’s
IRISH MOSS
For AFFECTIONS OF THE
LUNGS, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, COUGHS,
ard COLDS. 3
The Nursery Soap
is
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap.
Suitable for children of all ages.
Protects from all infection.
160 Horae-Power Electric Plant, operating at
The Cathcart Proprietary Cold Mine, Ararat, Victoria.
&Co.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power ant ,
Traction Plants.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
The Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
Or. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne. LTD -
m
tncL
M/SKY*
r
Ta
OCL
'CL
HISKV
■n
Vaacd L
oq retro
HAITI! THE BARMAID.
“ Your D.C.L. Degree may give you swollen head ; D.C.L. Whisky won't. It’ll only
give you a clear brain.”*
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring Song.
I am the Vision and the Dream
Of trembling Age, and yearning Youth;
I am the Sorceress Supreme.
I am Illusion ; I am Truth.
I am the Queen to whom belongs
The royal right great gifts to give ;
I am the Singer of the Songs
That lure men on to live and live.
There is no music like to mine ;
I sing in green, and gold, and red ;
I pour from secret casks the wine
That cheers the cold hearts of the dead.
My harp it has a thousand tones,
And makes the world with joy aflood ;
The old men feel it in their bones,
And life leaps laughing in their blood.
The sourest mortal all in vain
Shall try from me to keep apart;
I have no commerce with his brain—
I storm the fortress of his heart.
I am the Soul of things to come ;
I make a lover from a log ;
I make a poet of the dumb ;
I make a seraph of a frog.
The lover with a wrecked romance,
The gambler by misfortune struck,
I bring to them another chance —'
New life, new times, new love, new luck.
My names are all the names impearled
In all the songs my singers sing;
I am the sweetheart of the world—
I am Carissima—the Spring !
N.S.W.
V. J. DALEY.
Marching By.
O have you seen them passing ?—nearly twenty
millions strong !
Hark! their battle-drums a-beating, and the
cadence of their song !
Hear them tramping down the bye-ways where the
lonely scouts have gone :
’Tis the tramping of our army—Labor’s army
marching on !
O their tools of trade are glist’ning, and their flags
are all unfurled ;
Yea, and brain and heart have sought them from
the walks pf all the world !
And the slaves who groped in blindness through
the darkness of the past
Have seen the light with open eyes, and join our
ranks at last.
From the grandest halls of knowledge, from the
palace and the slum—
The prince beside the pauper—O ! it’s splendid
how they come !
From the peaceful home of plenty, and from
hovels raised in dearth,
Come the army of the workers—and the best of all
the earth !
And the hopes that light the future, and the
dearest dreams that were—
They’ll waken in the bosoms of our faintest com-
rades there.
See the vanguard still advancing, and the standard
waving high—
Hark the drums, the song, the tramping !—lt is
Labor marching by !
Ah, that song shall not be silenced, nor that cease-
less tramping stayed,
Till the birthrights of the People at that army’s
feet are laid ;
And those drums shall not be deadened, nor those
waving banners furled,
Till their owners march in triumph through the
highways of the world !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
The Sea-Witch.
She reaps the curling surf, unharmed,
Green seas break o’er her,
An evil Sprite, repellent, charmed,
Death quails before her.
A plunging ship with shattered gear
Swirls in the breaker,
Her storm-deck blanched with faces drear,
The gods forsalce her.
The sea-witch hears the prayers in scorn
And cruel laughter,
And lashing fast the wings of Dawn
Flies swiftly after.
She spreads her black hair o’er the sky,
Swart night grows darker ;
Green seas obey her flashing eye,
Winds ravage starker.
The breakers, whipped to savagery,
Gnash, snarl to rend her.
And whelm the ship in lustful glee
And awful splendor.
The goaded waves, with sullen roar,
Strain plate and anchor ;
The sea-witch skirts the frothy shore,
Her dank hair danker.
’Mid crash of quivering wood and steel
White foam seethes whiter,
The livid rocks crunch through the keel,
None may requite her.
The sea : witch frees the wings of Dawn
And seeks cave-shelter,
And rage-spent waves with Death forlorn
In anguish welter.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.


KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of Infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
sd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODEM £2mlo to £ G
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Bim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £J £2 .10
good as new, - - -
Great factory clearance sale at half factory price*.
EAR;! A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, <fcc ..hat t prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO - Dep\ bss
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
Macnsven & Cameron’s Pens
•• They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
fsd
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
J3T* BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
[JABORINE
j HAIR TONIC.
► The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 26, Posted 29, Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AIT KEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Goughs and Golds. Of 3.8 years’ proven efficacy. ,
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND ,’ of 38 years’ proven efficacy,
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles. ■ ■
‘ LINUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS ’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay;s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
YOU OUGHT TO
WRITE at once for m.v new book (illus-
trated), “ Mens Sana in Corpore
Sano.” Valuable information FREE for
EVERY MAN. The following' subjects are
dealt with and thoroughly explained—Marriage,
False Modesty, Culpability of Parents, Blood
Poison, Loss of Vitality, Varicocele, General
Debility, Rupture, etc., etc.
The book is written for sufferers to under-
stand, and points out the way to a permanent
cure. It tells you what you want to know,
and what you ought to know. Neurasthenia
and various other Nervous Disturbances arising"
from neglected Varicocele are fully explained.
Posted FREE.
My Electro-Regenerator
(Patent Secured)
i 3 the result of the Latest Scientific Achieve-
ments in Electro-Medical Therapeutics. It
builds up the Nervous System and sends a
Curative Wave of Electricity throughout the
entire organisation.
WRITE TO-DAY.
SURGEON LANGSTON
M.R.C.S.
Eng-.
129 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. for Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any f ne.
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, '•-Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; F. E Winchcombe, Esq.,
General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary,
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
HELBOURNE
No. 271 F.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr" Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 F.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
1 3s. 6d
Robert Horst,
MELBOURNE, all . . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
\
Lame
p|W
The basis of which is “Montserrat ” Lime-Fruit Juice.
The Best a.nd Cheapest Sa\ice.
AGENTS— Elliott Bros. Ltd., J. Conned & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
Beautiful Home Decorations
LaJ
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘■OUR FAVORITE” COED EVA MFC (Washable) - Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOEIV EMMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOEIX” BATH TUB EVAMEIi. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
i GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN ’’ FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL. Etc.
fd
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing stamps, to BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WO RED WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
la the Great English Cure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. l\d. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£ung aomc
tobethe WORLD'S CUREi
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
can bs obtained fro.il
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining' membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
> NOTICE
? To sufferersfrom Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
! Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
> Limbs.
I The Old Reliable English Remedy.
; PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
1 Prepared by PoiNGr>KSTKK & Truman, of
! 71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for qnick
i efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
( parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
> ==*=====— ========= ________
Trumans NURSERY LOTION,
, By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. <fc Is. 6d.
! N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrb it Truman,
71 Old Keut Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
syduitt.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address: A. MINER. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
* POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
•Cx. Price, 6d.; Posted, 8d


r
fl br '
THE NECESSITY
brushing the teeth morning and evening
becomes a pleasure if you use
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Tooth Powder
with its delicate perfume and agreeable taste.
It preserves the teeth by thorough
and antiseptic cleansing, and also
gives them the requisite polish
without injuring the enamel.
Calvert’s Prickly-heat Soap
is very serviceable in hot climates as
a preventive of prieldy-heat and other
irritation of the skin. It is pleasantly
perfumed and contains xo% Crystal
Carbolic.
These articles can be readily obtained from
most Chemists and Storekeepers.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
rHAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
“ Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD I
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success.”
f—J Hall, School-house, E. Markham.
AGE MIS.
ELLIOTT J’.HOTiIKRS & CO
h AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
I
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lam ar-
tixe’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corklri’s God’s Good ‘Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr-.-Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, il)us., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Gd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, And the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
NOiiE CVCLOPEPIf
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician.
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Bitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Ur-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
IS 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; Wiiat to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements op Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,. Is 2d.
AM these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. 8*“ Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
u Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
H°w TO Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. JS T ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sapkio, genuine
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid!
vvifes Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d, Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
loxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
INGERSOLLS COMPLETE WORKS, 2s. GIPSY FORTUNE
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(.las. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Rook, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers Assistant, 2s fid. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete) Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide*
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood*
os. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
WEAK MEN CURED FREE.
J //jLL
V
- x
w
r E have the moat powerful and practical cure
ever yet invented for the positive, certain, and
radical cure of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak
Back or Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and
Stomach troubles, and all other weaknesses of vital
parts; in fact, all chronic diseases. In 20 years we
have cured 50,000 weak men and women. Our method
cannot possibly fail. No matter what other treatment or belt you
may have used, WE WILL CURE YOU, and we are so positive of
the tremendous therapeutic properties of our latest improved Belt
that we will send our Latest Model Full Power No. 8 Belt complete,
with all attachments, to any person writing us, and you can wear it
for ninety days, and you only
PAY WHEN CURED-
This is the most generous offer yet made, in order thoroughly to
introduce throughout the State this splendid Belt.
Our Belt Generates a Powerful Vitalising Current of
Electricity, which can be felt the instant applied.
You can wear it at night. It cures while you sleep. If you are weak
or ailing m any way, if you are not the man or woman Nature intended
you to be, then try our Belt. It will cure you. If not, it won’t cost
you a penn y.
We have just published a New and Beautifully Illustrated Medical Book
which is absolutely ’
free to all
writing to us. It will interest and help every adult reading it: so delay no
longer, but write to-day for our FREE BOOK and Powerful Belt. Write to-day.
The Dr, Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept, m
VT „ 317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
iN.b.— .New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving- Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
OI
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will forward Free 24 Packets of our
HtlCltflo! Tooth PowdOf 9 ** and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominal price of 6d each, and
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free. The continued systematic use of this
Powder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth,
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard and healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Ei agrance 10 the Breath.
We don’t ask you to trust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders, and we will at
once forward you Free any prize you may select from the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we send with the powde/s. This offer, made for a
limited .period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
made by a Reliable Firm. Remember, our Prizes are not Rolled Gold , Gold Filled
or Gold Pattern, but
(hall marked.) SOLID GOLD, (guaranteed.)
jp Write to-day,
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
A G pitt STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLE 7 ON’S EYE OINTMEUT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, Xll'D
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL, EYE TROUBLES.
fM EVER RAIL.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book'
“HOW TO PfESEKVE THE EYES”
CURED
“Crackajack” Mouth
Organs
The ‘Crackajack’' illustrated below presents not only the very latest improvements,
but is unquestionably the best and most beautiful toned Mouth Organ made.
The Reeds arc of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. The frames
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the reid plates arc solid
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass,
heavily plated and
artistically engrav-
ed It is impossible
to fully describe these
instruments and their
musical qualities
cv
m
p fl°
i*S?
C-**
-cv' t
They must be seen
and used to be
appreciated. We
can recommend
them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
posted to any
ADDRESS IN THE
WORLD TOR 4d.
EXTRA,
Made in Four Styles
No. I GracKaiacK Professional, 40 Reeds 3/-
No. 2 GrackaiaGk Senior, 20 Reeds • 21-
No. 3 CraGkaiack Junior, 20 Reeds * 1/6
No. 4 Boss Cracker • • i/»
ALLAN & CO., 276=278 Collins 5t., Melbourne.
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
THE
S'
pm
THE
J 1!!! raZ ° r iS - SUperi ? r *? a °y °«jer. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground rines
ed're that is required to ensured« gnn B ! ln # I ' racfc , ical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
SS Hotter SK « 01 »
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Price
{ Single in ®| ;l ' 0n »„ Lea J 1 ha ' Case 10s. 6c). ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case,
*• & n ° le lo ’ ln IVor -> Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
21s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
sole agents: CRAIG Sl AIT KEN, 654 Georg© St., SYDNEY
Uqw Zealand Loan Agency 6©,
£3 "ST ID IST 23 3T, ——
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
HM* TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKiNS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERT S, who pay special
promptly. ° Weigh “ g ' classn)g and dls F° sin S to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
Exceptional facilities arc offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free
their gram. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
storage of


Senator Playford
tasted Argus Sauce at a
sitting 1 of the Tariff Com-
mission, and smacked his lips
at its excellent quality.
YOU get some
Argus Sauce
(your grocer probably keeps
it), and see how it will make
you smack your lips, too.
Delicious with steak.
Send for Free Sample to—
BLOCG BROS.,
24-38 Spencer St., Melbourne.
\
23
m
LET’S TALK OF LAXATINE.
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
is the leading Laxative,
is a very mild aperient,
is made up in lollie-like lozenges,
is as pleasant to take as it is easy to buy.
is liked alike by the ladies and the little ones.
thoroughly cleanses the system without causing any personal dis-
comfort.
is not a violent purgative; it is gentle, but unfailing. Good for adults
and children.
arrests disease and gives renewed vigor to the weak and weary,
is sold by all Chemists. One Shilling per box. Cheap at a Pound.
Try Laxatine.
& DIGESTIVE
VEGESALIS
I TABLE SALT
1 WHICH IS SALT
With Vegetable Virtues.
f DOES NOT BLACKEN SILVER.
E Does not Cake.
| XJSE IT WHEN COOKING
E VEGETABLES instead of
E OBJECTIONABLE SODA.
Of Leading Storekeepers
Wholesale:
= VEGESALIS Co., 2, Tower Royal, London, E.C.
- ENGLAND.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines £ Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMINC, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
For The CHILD, The INVALID and The AGED.
NESTLE’S MILK
Nestle’s • Milk * Food
BOTH HAVE STOOD THE TEST OF TIME.
i*3
cnet
hW
fn& lS
Sold bv
All Jewellers
SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
medals wheim-ever exhibited.
J\ Certificate Given W/th Each Watch.
'Bs s '
at f)
0 NO
'8 6a
1892
s»
ROTMEiHAfIS
LONDON
fcs
Estab- j
1750.
u
wh
m
m
lU3
mr
i *
H JJwi
mm
LIB
fek.ll
iEBi
■t IXiIiUXL'.I.L Pyi
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARXFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
. *
&
TH E
"THE FIRMAMENT
HP
: *s®Ejßgf
*■ h6ofiN g
...
IHM
Si/
*#•
I BE
/Is
/i\
S&, ■+»>*
r#-.
1
»
i
Ihi
asa
\• * *
Wholesale Agents : E. RICH & CO., LTD., SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
IN THE* «
ROOFIN6
WORLD* *
The star of the firmament
is undoubtedly
RUBEROIP
ROOFINg.
ITS 14 YEARS
of demonstrated durability
entitles it to that place.
Unless your roofing: is
stamped RUBEROID on the
under side, it is not
RUBEROID, nor has it any
connection with RUBEROID.
Avoid Imitations
of the
Genuine RUBEROID,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1334.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1905.
Price 60.
SCARING AWAY POPULATION.
Intended Settler (as he 'bouts ship): "Case of suicide, I reckon I How could any chump expect to grow anything with that great thing
sucking every drop of moisture out of the ground?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, ivhether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under *
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a Suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcti, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs, R. A. 'Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal ;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x Uin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
“Posters” will be attached to agents’ parcels if The
Bulletin is satisfied they ivill be displayed.
THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 7, 1905.
PEACE IN THE NORTH.
The American eagle screams exultantly, the dove
of peace in its talons, and it is now established as
a proved fact, what has been for some time obvious
to persons of intelligence (except the editors of
the Australian daily papers), that Japan had
reached in the struggle with Russia a point of
exhaustion at which even a great patriotism, backed
by Asiatic phlegm, threatened collapse. There
is no other explanation of a peace in which Japan,
after a series of notable victories, gains hardly
anything but renown, and Russia cedes nothing to
which it had at any time a clear right. That ex-
planation is in no sense derogatory to Japan.
Rather otherwise. The Yellow Nation has
proved not only its capacity to organise
and to fight, but its capacity to show a
brave and united front to the foreigner when
at the point of desperation. There is nothing
really finer in the Japanese campaign than the
sturdy “ bluff” of the first peace proposals, when
the nation had not a card left in its hand. To
demand Saghalien, the dismantlement of Vladivo-
stock, the surrender of the interned remnants of
the Russian fleet, the future limitation of Russia’s
naval power in the Far East, and an indemnity of
£200,000,000, was magnificent, when Japan was
prepared to make peace with the very shadowy
concession of one-half the frozen island of Sagha-
lien. And the national spirit which enabled this
bluff to be kept up so long as there was the
slightest hope of twisting anything more from the
Russians was an admirable example of unity
and secretiveness. An occasional visitor came
away from Japan with a vague idea of the des-
perate straits to which the people were put to
maintain the war, but from the Japanese press, the
Japanese politicians, or the Japanese people there
was not a whisper. At the time when Togo’s
fleet was in wait for the Baltic Armada, and the
escape to Vladivostock of even a portion of the
Russian fleet meant probable ruin to the Japanese
cause, there was shown to the outside world no
trace of uneasiness; and it was not until after the
decisive naval battle that Europe was allowed to
know for certain that the previous loss of two
Japanese warships had made the cause of Asia
very uncertain. Suoli unity and courage compel
respect. It is almost unexampled in war, and
would probably be impossible in any European
democracy, unless the people were fighting a
purely defensive war for their homes.
* * * *
Splendid as was the crowning achievement of
Japanese diplomacy it need bring no recruits to
the cult of blind Jap-worshippers. The Yellow
men have proved grit, capacity, and solidarity. If
genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains,
they have shown genius. All that the European
has set down as the theoretic perfection of method,
the Japanese have copied faithfully, and made of
it a practical attainment. What, for instance, a
European war officer knows should be done in
regard to medical service and sanitation in the
field, and believes also never will be done in actual
service, since it is so difficult to impress upon
every unit the importance of small precautions,
the Japs have actually done. The long-established
rules as to the proportion of loss that will cause a
regiment to stop have been swept aside by soldiers
who seemed to nave little of the ordinary human
respect for Death—in fact, they have been swept
aside by Russians and Japanese alike. Withal
the Jap has not established as an axiom his
superiority to the European. He has shown the
particular Asiatic type of virtue to an extraordi-
nary degree, but it has been throughout Asiatic
virtue. There has been furnished no reason
why the Caucasian should count his future
days as limited to the length that the good-will
of Japan may allow. In a campaign against
the least developed of the great European Powers
at its weakest point—the point farthest from its
main resources—and at a time when that Power
was attacked at the heart by internecine warfare,
Japan has triumphed ; but in gaining the triumph
has given no proof—indeed, no indication—that
against even a small European people, fighting
under circumstances of national enthusiasm which
would give the European spirit a chance of show-
ing itself, it would have any sure hope of success.
There is no need to load a recognition of the great
national qualities Japan has shown with the
absurdity of Japiolatry.
* * * ' *
The Nippon generals and admirals have been
careful to ascribe each successive victory to th 6
“glorious virtues of the Mikado,” and if the
Mikado be taken as typifying the nation, the state-
ments were true enough. It is the courage and na-
tional spirit of Japan, rather than any special genius
for military or naval warfare, that have made vic-
tory. Japan is intensely national. Every step in
its development is taken with the single idea of
advancing Japan. It is vexed with no theories
that international fraternity is best served by
treating the manufacturing foreigner as a brother.
It doesn’t look at a native manufacturer as an
habitual criminal. It has no Stinking Fish party to
misrepresent its position abroad. It has no political
leaders whose eyes are fixed on gaining some foreign
decoration ; no Freetrade party to tell it that it
is too mean and poor a country to make its own
engines, ploughs and rifles. It allows no absentee
landlords, and keeps Japanese soil for the
Japanese. It does not believe in “encourag-
ing foreign capital to come and develop the
natural resources of the country” and to
remain a leech on the country for ever after.
Its fiscal policy is stringent Protection, and
everything a Japanese can make is made
in Japan by Japanese; the foreign immigrant is
tolerated only so long as he lias something to
teach that Japan has not yet learned. Its
financial policy before the war was to keep out of
foreign debt and to buttress the scanty revenue
drawn from a bitterly poor population by
Government monopolies of profitable trades, such
as that in tobacco. Further, the Japanese citizen
has a keen sense of civic duty and accepts it as an
obligation to train himself for the defence of his
paper house and his patch of rice field. Protec-
tion, universal military service, honest and
scrupulously home-controlled finance—those have
been the principles which the adaptive Japs
thought best to erect as pillars of Nationalism.
And each victory has justified the value of each
and roared to Australia a message of advice and
warning.
« * * *
Here in Australia we have a country of
enormous possibilities—far greater than those of
Japan. We have a population drawn originally
from the best and hardiest types of Europe, and
fit now to cope in individual character with any
people on earth. But .national organisation and
national spirit are lacking. A careless habit of
mind has allowed men who are foreign and craven
in spirit to usurp authority. A great proportion of
our politicians look to gain a living by destroying
and hampering Australian industries, and to gain
honor by winning approval abroad. The majority
of the influential newspapers are bitterly un-
patriotic—the bond slaves of the city im-
porting magnates—and ever preach the doc-
trine of the hopelessness and helplessness of
Australia. The nation is neither trained to manu-
facture in times of peace nor to the use of arms in
times of war. Thus there is not a nation in Aus-
tralia —only the raw material for a nation. Yet
there is nothing more certain than that, to hold
Australia, Australians must organise into a nation.
Japan, the victor in the war just concluded, the
teacher by whose example we could learn so much,
is also the living threat hanging over the head of
this continent. For some while, poverty now
should keep Japan quiet. It has spent nearly
£200,000,000 on the war, and will get none of it
back in indemnity. It gains no territorial con-
cessions of any great financial value, and must,
probably for some few years, submit to the quie-
tude of exhaustion. But for a people with such
splendid national organisation, the process of
recovery will be speedy. Within a very short
time the Japanese menace will be as real to Aus-
tralia as is now the next Melbourne Cup. What
do Australian statesmen propose ? What, in par-
ticular, do Alfred Deakin and John Christian
Watson propose ?
A GREAT WASTE OF MONEY.
Bigjohn Forrest, who is perhaps as ordinary and
un-original a Treasurer as any Commonwealth
could ask for, got through the jungle of his
Financial Statement without throwing any dazzling
light on the question of the transfer of the State
debts. The principal thing he did say was that it
was difficult, if not impossible, to work out a
feasible scheme whereby the Commonwealth
would act as borrower for the States and serve as
their agent in contracting new liabilities, which
remark was very wide of the target. The ques-
tions that are urgent to-day do not concern more
borrowing and the creation of more separate State
liabilities, but refer to the consolidation and pay-
ing off of liabilities now existing. The hope-
lessness of John Forrest lies in his inability
to realise _ even this elementary fact; his
one financial idea is something about more
borrowing. Probably there will be this, year
the usual conference re the taking over of
the State debts by the Australian Parliament,
and the usual deadlock. Yet there is just now a
fine opportunity to actually do something, if
members were in earnest on the subject and if
Joe Cook would stop talking for a minute or two.
According to Coghlan, there are, during the next
three years (1906-7-8), the following loans falling
due:—
New South Wales .. ■* £9,591,918
Victoria • • 9,308,800
South Australia .. .. 3,912,050
Tasmania .. .» *• 884,626
£23,697,394
Even allowing for the fact that a portion of these
amounts is merely borrowed trust funds, there aie
still £18,000,000 or £20,000,000 to be renewed in
the open market. It is the duty of the Australian
Parliament to take possession of these debts and
all succeeding debts as they mature, and to pro-
vide for their renewal, whether the formal and
complete taking over of the State IO U has been
arranged for or not. If the Australian Government
takes over the maturing debts informally it will
be, until some definite arrangement is arrived at,
simply the creditor of the States, collecting
interest from them like any other bondholder, and
paying interest to its own creditors, if it has any,
out of the proceeds, and retaining the difference.
When a general taking over and consolidation is
arrived at, this arrangement can be simplified, but
the larger the proportion of the State debts held
by the Commonwealth the easier the consolida-
tion will be.
» • * *
There are various ways in which the work of
turning the State debts into a Federal liability
can be commenced
(1) By adopting the Canadian banking system, whereby
the banks are required to hold at least 40 per cent, of
their cash reserves in Federal paper money (which would
give the Commonwealth command of, say, £8,000,000),
and by putting aside at least half that amount (say
£4,000(000) as a fund for the buying up of State
debts. The interest on the State bonds acquired
(about £140,000 or £150,000 the first year, and more each
succeeding year) to be applied to buying up more State
debts.
(2) By setting aside a small sum annually (£lOO,OOO, or
£250,000, or £500,000) out of Federal revenue for the
purchase of State securities.
(3) By raising Federal loans (with a sinking fund
attached to each) and using the proceeds to buy up State
securities.
With the money thus raised the Commonwealth
could do two things. It could offer, whenever a
State loan fell due, to take up the whole loan
and constitute itself the State’s creditor until a
general consolidation could be arranged, or if the
State was too grumpy to deal on those terms, it could
take up portion of the loan like any other ten-
derer. And it could steadily and systematically
buy up State securities in the open market—the
cheapest securities available—and thus again con-
stitute itself the States’ creditor until a general
consolidation could be arrived at. Provided the
Commonwealth established a sinking fund for
every loan it incurred, it could probably borrow
so cheaply that it could buy up State securities in
the open market at a considerable profit, the in-
terest it received from the States being con-
siderably more than the interest it paid to its own
creditors.
« * * *
The crowd of State miseries who can only re-
cognise in the Commonwealth the States’ bitter
enemy, and who never realise that the people
who form the States, and the people who
form the Commonwealth are the same people,
and that a man can’t lie in wait behind a hedge
with a gun to shoot himself as he goes past—this
crowd would probably fail to see any advantage
in a scheme which would gradually substitute the
Commonwealth for the foreign usurer as the
States’ creditor. The crowd of State miseries is
unfortunately past reasoning with, and the only
thing that seems likely to meet its case is execu-
tion. To reasonable people, however, it would be
apparent that, if the Australian people in their
Federal capacity buy up the debts they owe in
their State capacity, either out of the proceeds of
a Federal note issue, or out of Federal revenue, or
with the proceeds of Federal loans which are
gradually extinguished by a sinking fund, they
become to that extent their own creditors, and the
man who is his own creditor owes nothing. And
one thing is certain : If the Commonwealth,
supposing it attached a sinking fund to its
loans, could borrow at 3 or even 3J per
cent., and with the money thus obtained could
buy up State securities at a price which yields 3§
per cent., then every million that the Common-
wealth doesn’t borrow on these terms and for that
purpose is a wilful and purposeless throwing away
of £5OOO. a year. And its neglect to adopt the
Canadian banking system, which would enable it
to apply at least £4,000,000, raised without interest,
to the buying up of State securities, is, in like
manner, a wilful and purposeless throwing away
of £140,000 or £150,000 a year. Also the waste
and loss through failure to do these things is ac-
cumulating all thetime at compound interest. If
the Wilks and Conroy push would only drag its
attention away for a moment from its petty State
miseries, and try to look at some large national
questions, it might realise that this is a good deal
of money to sacrifice with no per contra to set
against the loss.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Spirit of Secesh.
Last Friday Sydney Telegraph came out in a
tentative sort of way as an advocate of the disso-
lution of the Commonwealth. “It is possible,”
it said, “to build too recklessly on the assumption
that the Commonwealth is indissoluble ” :
Federation is more or less unpopular throughout the
Commonwealth. It has ceased to inspire enthusiasm. It
is the target for much slighting remark. In each State
there are many electors who would gladly join a sincere
and capably-led secession movement. Why? It may be
frankly admitted that in pre-Federal days expectation
was pitched too high. It always is on such occasions.
Federation had to be strenuously fought for, and in the
heat of conflict the prophetic references to the advant-
ages of union were over-colored. Perhaps exaggeration
was unavoidable. Federal sentiment is now a feeble
thing, and the existing disappointment is the penalty of
past exaggeration. But that is far from a full explana-
tion of the position. It has become a platitude to say
that the Commonwealth got into the hands of a poor
crew when it was launched. It could not easily have
been more unfortunate.... The actual results of union
are viewed with feelings of amazement and dismay.....
Apparently, the belief was and is that the union cannot
be endangered by anything that the Parliament or
Government can do, that it is “indissoluble,” that the
people’s hope and patience are stronger than their dis-
appointment and exasperation. How else can we under-
stand the refusal to undo what ought never to have been
done?
And much more to the same effect—some of it
true but most of it ridiculous, As a sample of
the part that is true, Federation had to be
“ strenuously fought for.” To disabuse the popu-
lar mind of the amazing lies and misrepresenta-
tions and slanders which the Sydney Telegraph
and papers of its kind circulated in the anti-
Federal interest was an enormous task. The
Telegraph, probably about the most unscrupulous
rag that ever brought discredit on this hemisphere,
even got so far, during these strenuous days, in
its efforts to promote disunion, as to solemnly
publish a leading article about a purely imaginary
duty which the unbrotherly Victorian (N.S.W.’s
best coal customer) was alleged to levy on
N.S.W, coal to the alleged ruin of that
industry. It called on IS'. S. Wales not to
federate with a person who did imaginary
things like that, and it has been callipg in the
same strain ever since. And both then and since
it has required strenuous exertion to explain to
the public the true inwardness of the Telegraph’s
Petriana lie, and its Six Hatters lie, and the
other countless lies and slanders with which it,
and its remarkable following, have striven to undo
the great work of making a United Australia.
But, on the whole, the exertion has been rewarded
with success. The Australian Parliament cer-
tainly has not done all that was hoped from it. It
should have suppressed the miserable little gang
which the Telegraph and similar papers sooled
on to obstruct all business and block all
progress. It should have put its foot down
on that paper over some of its worst slan-
ders and meanest distortions, and compelled
it to preserve some semblance of the truth
and decency which do not come naturally to it.
As regards some of the especially malignant false-
hoods it should have made the Telegraph’s
responsible person either support his statements
with evidence, or, if he failed to do so, it should
have locked him up in a cool place to reflect. And
the Australian Parliament may yet do some of these
things. Meanwhile, the Telegraph makes a
grievous mistake in thinking that the time is ripe
for secession, just as it made a grievous mistake
five years ago in fancying that there was some
hope for its gospel of parochialism. It over-rated
then, and it over-rates now, the power of common,
crude, inartistic mendacity. Even in New South
Wales a referendum to-day would certainly give a
larger majority for Federation than did the refer-
endum of 1899, and a much larger one than that
of 1898. There is no “secesh’’ in the air. The
people of N.S.W. know that their food and clothes
cost no more because of the small measure of Protec-
tion they have got; that their industries are
moving ahead quite as fast as they did before; that
their State is gaining immigrants instead of the
departures exceeding the arrivals as they did under
the Reid regime; and even the Telegraph’s
frenzy can’t make them believe that Victorians
are all bushrangers and venomous quadrupeds;
also they are beginning to realise that,
though Federal progress is slow now, it may
improve when Cook, and Pumpkin Smith, and
Wilks, and Conroy are dead or suppressed.
They even know that the Six Hatters were not
put in gaol or thrown overboard. And they have
no real sympathy to waste on the Telegraph, how-
ever mad it may be over the loss of its free postage
and its free railway carriage. They recognise that
paper as a useful organ in the way of cablegrams,
and more or less handy for advertisements about
the wooden cottage that is for sale, but if it fancies
that it is a Jefferson Davis it has its mistake all
to itself.
♦
The Queensland Land-Tax.
The Morgan Ministry deserves well of Queens-
land for many reasons, but most of all for its
resolve to be financially honest, despite the almost
impossible load of debt left on its hands by its
awful predecessors. For the coming financial year
the Morgan Government again intends to keep
absolutely clear of borrowing, thus putting up
the incredible record (for Queensland) of two
years without a loan. It further proposes to sot
aside the proceeds of land auction sales for public
works purposes ; it would certainly be better not
to sell land by auction, but when a State is
tottering under the burden, in proportion to
population, of the Biggest Debt on Earth, some
things must be done which might otherwise be
avoidable. And to fill the gap in the finances
the Government proposes to levy a graduated
land-tax on estates of over 2000 acres, beginning
with Id. in the £ on estates worth over £20,000
(the first £lO,OOO to be exempt) and ending at 3d.
in the £ with no exemption on these worth £llO,OOO
or more. The proceeds of this tax are expected to
enable Queensland to struggle to the end of the
financial year not only without borrowing, but also
without a shortage, and it certainly looks a care-
fully devised plan, which will yield some much-
required revenue and at the same time commence
a much-needed discouragement of the great land
monopolist. Certainly, it is miles ahead of
N.S.W.’s hopelessly undemocratic land-tax, which
falls alike on the man with £2OOO worth of land
which he farms himself, and on the rack-renting
absentee with £200,000 worth. Queensland has
never since the beginning of its history had so
good and so strenuous a Government as the
Mohgan-Kidston Administration has proved itself
up to date. It is a Government which Does
Things, while the Worker, which ought to be
helping it to do things, stands aloof and dreams
hazy dreams of “Socialism in our Time.”
“Socialism in our Time ” may not be obtainable,
but “Solvency in our Time” is a possible
thing, and the Morgan Ministry is reaching for it
with both hands.
♦
N.S.W. Lands Scandals.
Justice Owen’s inquiry into the N.S.W. Lands
scandals continues without getting much nearer to
the question of most interest —did the strangely
winning land agents succeed so well with the
Lands Department by force of personal magnetism
or because they passed on some of the huge fees ?
Exactly how much W. N. Willis could do with
the Lands Department was shown by the evidence
in regard to a series of Bathurst-Orange leases.
These were annual leases converted into improve-
ment leases, and in every case W. N. Willis, or
somebody acting for W. N. Willis, was agent.
As it was important that there should be expedi-
tion to have the leases granted during 1903 (that
gave the lessees a chance of securing a re-appraise-
ment) the Department of Lands got a move on.
By a “rush ” telegram the local Land Board was
hustled into activity. Then an extraordinary
issue of the Government Gazette was printed so
that the leases might be gazetted during 1903.
This involved a special meeting of the Executive
Council, and the attendance until midnight at the
Government Printing Office of the printing
staff and Lands Department officials. Finally,
an official was sent specially to Moss Yale
on December 31 to secure the Governor’s
signature to the leases. He didn’t reach
Moss Yale until midnight, and the Governor did
not sign the leases until Jan. Ist. Nevertheless,
a Gazette notice showed that the leases had bsen
executed on Dec. 31st. Great, indeed, was the
power of the land agent! Evidence presented of
late has been giving attention more to the land
agency transactions of Messrs. Bath, Close,
R. D. Meagher and Crane, and W. N. Willis’
fee account has been added to by only £1565,
making it now total—so far as disclosed—£42,24s.
[ln the issue of August 24 The Bulletin included the
name of Mr.-E. MV Clark, M.L.A., in “the list of names of
members and ex-members of Parliament who have been so
far mentioned before the Commission as having received
money directly for land-agency transactions, or having
received money from W. N. Willis or other land agents


or legal or other services.” This paper is now assured by
Mr. E. M. Clark that it is not true that he has received
fees for any services in land-agency matters, and it gladly
corrects the mistake.]
♦
“Consulting the States.”
The unfortunate habit of “ consulting the States ”
on matters about which the opinions of the States
don’t signify in the least seems to be growing
on the Commonwealth. The worst offender
in this respect was G. H. Reid, with whom the
habit became a disease, and who ended up by
submitting to a conference of State Premiers, at
Hobart, practically every item of Federal policy.
This is not, perhaps, a matter for surprise in the
case of Reid, the parochialist, but it is a matter
for surprise, and for more than surprise, that
Alfred Deakin should show signs of falling into
the same habit. No man knows better than he
does that, with some exceptions which arise out of
the peculiar circumstances of our Constitution,
the policy of the Commonwealth with reference to
Federal matters ought to be determined without
the slightest reference to the likes and dislikes of
the State Governments. And no man knows
better than Deakin that this is the only possible
way of making the Federal system work smoothly.
Yet we find him, when a question is raised in the
House as to the prohibition of the importation of
opium, asking for an adjournment of the debate
“ until replies had been received from the States.”
What, in the name of all that is rational,
have the States got to do with it ? If the Com-
monwealth wishes to prohibit the importation of
opium—and there seems to be plenty of reason for
doing so—the attitude of Bent or Carruthers
towards the proposal is in no way of more
importance than the attitude of John Smith, who
lives at Cobar. It’s a great pity that Deakin
doesn’t realise this, for apart from the weakness
and delay the consulting system introduces into
Federal policy, it encourages Bent and Car-
ruthers in the belief that their opinions on
Federal matters are really more important than
those of John Smith, of Cobar. Precedents
are quickly made in politics, and every bad
precedent of this sort made by Deakin will cer-
tainly be used to make a still worse one by some
weak Prime Minister in the future. It is difficult
enough to carry on the Government of the Com-
monwealth already; it will be impossible when
State Governments successfully assert a claim to
be heard on matters that the Constitution commits
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commonwealth.
In this particular case Deakin’s explanation is
peculiarly weak. Opium, he says, is grown in
some of the States, and the Commonwealth
could not successfully put down the evil
unless those States co-operated in the effort.
But he was not asked to put an end to
the use of opium in the Commonwealth, and, if he
had been, he couldn’t have done it. He was asked
to prohibit its importation, which the Common-
wealth has complete power to do. If, after doing
that, he likes to suggest to the States that they
should prohibit its growth, he can do so, at the
risk, of course, of being told to mind his own busi-
ness. However, the merits of this particular case
don’t matter'much. What is really important is
that the Commonwealth, in exercising its exclusive
powers, shouldn’t fall into the weak and dangerous
habit of officially consulting persons who have no
right to be consulted.
N.S.W. Cat Politics.
Sydney Daily Telegraph, a couple of years ago,
shrieked its approval of the “statesmanship” of
a little group of yelping N.S. Walera who wasted
the time of the Australian Parliament, and drove
that great public servant Kingston almost to his
grave, by stonewalling the tariff debate. The
intellectual grandeur of these men—the miserable
Wilks, the clamorous Conroy, the inane Nanny
Smith, and that public misfortune Lonsdale —
was held up for admiration, in that they had
proved their capacity to say nothing for hours at
a stretch, in order to stop the business of the
country and drive the country’s Ministers to dis-
traction. No other State but N.S. Wales, it was
proudly claimed, could produce such great tongues,
such mighty mouths, such untiring throats. The
great blank stonewall of N.S. Wales intellect was
something which was calculated to make Aus-
tralia gape in astonishment. Now the same tale
is repeated. These are extracts from the Sydney
organ of N.S.W. insectism last week
That kind of aptitude which members from New South
Wales have the credit in the Federal Parliament of posses-
sing above all the other legislators—the aptitude for
party manoeuvring—is being rapidly acquired by Mr.
Kelly. He has already, indeed, developed to an unusual
degree for a parliamentarian not through his second
session.
His colleague, Mr. Johnson, has not the same irrepres-
sive volubility. He has not the mental dexterity, not
quite so much of that restless anxiety for plunging head-
long into the thick of every Parliamentary move. But he
has other qualities not less serviceable." He has more
solidity, more sustained industry, a larger share of that
sort of determination which keeps an end in view and
makes steadily for it. It seems to be the easiest thing - in
the world—possibly it is—for Mr. Johnson to jump to his
feet and talk right on for two or three or four hours.
Mr. Johnson has always been at home in the Chamber,
and he has the instinct for party fighting, and when he
is wanted, he is never short of material.
“The kind of aptitude which members from N.S.
Wales have the credit of possessing ! ” The apti-
tude for making useless, irrelevant speeches; for
using the forms of the House and the absence of
effective Standing Orders to block public business ;
for interfering, between the will of the majority
and its expression, the barrier of bowlings and
lies and false accusations and blockhead speeches,
meaning nothing, and intended to mean nothing !
If that is something creditable, then a carbuncle
is a thing to make a man a proud soul, and con-
firmed idiocy is a matter of thanksgiving. The
Telegraph takes smug satisfaction in the reflec-
tion that this sort of “aptitude for politics” is a
special possession of the N.S.W. members.
Thank Heaven that it is so. Were all Australia
of the same mind, or want of mind, it would be a
poor outlook for the Commonwealth. The fact is
that N.S.W. politics have always been something
between a cat-fight and a South American revolu-
tion, with short lucid intervals of legislation. The
Parliament of that State met from the beginning
in the old Rum Hospital, and the reek of the rum
of Macquarie’s days has always been in its blood.
From the earliest days there were fierce riots, and
one legislator was hauling on his brother legis-
lator s beard. Run over the list of prominent
N.S.W. politicians, living and dead, and practi-
cally all may be associated, at one time or other,
with some fisticuffs exploit or some sordid
row. They were, perhaps, good fellows, all
the same, in their private capacities, and
The Bulletin must confess to a sneaking
fondness for some of the participants in the narrow,
crooked, rowdy, picturesque politics of the old
Rum Hospital—politics full of “copy” and rich
in color. But it was a bad school for legislation.
Whilst Parkes was being baited over the lunatic
O’Farrell, and Copeland’s cups were being dis-
cussed, and the Dean case was being tried, and
the Pope of Rome was being canvassed,
and the free fights were being fought,
Local Government and a hundred other neces-
sary things were neglected, and a tradition
was being established that it was the duty of a
Parliament to quarrel, and to stonewall when no
row loomed over the horizon, and to keep stonewall-
ing until a fresh shindy came in sight. That
tradition a big section of the N.S. Wales members
carried down to the Australian Parliament—a
tradition of reckless lying accusation, of miser-
able personal pettiness, of silly useless obstruc-
tion. And the Sydney Foreign-trade papers
approve of that conduct enthusiastically and call
it "statesmanship.” Fortunately for the credit
of the State of N.S. Wales, there is another
section of its representatives which somewhat
retrieves its reputation. Watson, Watkins,
Hughes, Spence, Thomas, and others of the
Labor party, are as well respected as any
members, and an occasional man of the stamp of
G. B. Edwards shows that it is possible even to
be a RsiD-ite and yet not a blatant, rowdy
obstructionist. But the bulk of N.S.W. re-
presentation in the Federal Parliament consists
of clawless old tabby cats in the Senate ; and
shrieking, spitting wild cats, with “a great politi-
cal aptitude ” and “a fine party sense”—such as
Reid, Wilks, Conroy, Johnson and Pumpkin
Smith —in the Representatives.
The Melbourne Trams.
Vic. Premier Bent having started to talk about
some electric State lines that will compete with
the Melbourne Tram Co., that fine fat monopoly
begins to squeal concerning an alleged "invasion
of rights,” and the right-thinking person (who
never really thinks) is being whipped up to
protest against “ interference with private enter-
prise.” Private enterprise ! Why the lines were
built with £1,650,000 borrowed by the munici-
palities, on the security of their assets and
revenues. All that the co. put into the business
was £250,000. Yet, while the co. has, during the
past two years, actually divided 24 per cent, on that
amount, and 15 years ago paid as much as 38 j; per
cent., the municipalities which put up the money,
and mortgaged their rates in order to get it, haven’t
fingered a cent in the way of profit. Besides
paying interest on the capital cost, and a sinking
fund to wipe off the mortgage by 1916, the people
who use the trams have, in the past five years,
yielded £488,124 of profit to the co. There have
been times when, as mentioned just now, the co.
paid 38£ per cent, per annum in dividends; the
past five years’ operations alone would have re-
turned to the co. the whole of the capital it put
into the concern, and left £238,124 for dividends
and such line repairs or renewals as hadn’t been
paid for out of revenue before profit was declared
—which probably are not many. During those
five years the revenues of the ten municipalities in-
terested have amounted to £2,367,236 on an aver-
age rate of Is. 9d. in the £; so if the munici-
palities had had the sense to build the cars, &c.,
and run the trams themselves as well as building
the lines, they would still have owned the whole
outfit and been able to knock 4d. in the £ off their
rates. That is where the amazing folly of the
average property owner shows up; municipal
enterprise would almost abolish the rates which
he always grieves at paying, but he will have none
of it because it is “ Socialistic.”
The N.S.T7. Engines.
The position in regard to the building of loco-
motives for the N.S.W. railways is this :
Foreign tenders are the lowest. They are open to the
minor objection that—as in the case of Yankee engines
before imported—they may prove unsuitable ; and to the
very important objection that the country which has to
go abroad for the manufacture of its locomotives doesn’t
deserve to have railways, and doesn’t deserve to be called
civilised.
The second estimates in point of price are those of
the State workshops at Eveleigh. And it is held out as a
reasonable probability that, if State manufacture becomes
an established thing, the cost will in time, as the men gain
experience, and the business expands and grows more
economical with expansion, be even less than the import
cost. Victoria now makes its locomotives in State work-
shops at a figure lower than any importer can quote.
The highest estimate of cost is from a N.S. Wales private
firm. But this is the one which Premier Joseph
Carrutiiehs proposes to accept, and in defence of which
he browbeats the Chief Commissioner for Railways, who
pleads that if the engines are made locally they should be
made in the Eveleig-h State shops.
Unless it is assumed that Freetrader Joseph
Carruthers is deliberately striving to cast dis-
credit on the principle of local manufacture, it is
hard to explain why he is so very anxious to accept
the local private offer, which is the dearer and the
less likely to prove satisfactory; and decline that of
the State workshops, since the State workshops
claim that they can produce the engines at a cost
very little, if any, greater than the import price,
and since the claim is supported by the fact that
the State workshops in Victoria actually produce
engines at a price lower than that at which they
can be imported. The obviously best course for
N.S. Wales is State manufacture. Why is Joseph
so keen on the more expensive private manu-
facture ?
♦
Melbourne’s Brick Combine.
In the discussion re Vic. Premier Bent’s scheme
for State brick-works much stress was laid on the
fact that the Hoffmann Brick Co., the head of
the brick combine, has paid only six per cent, in
dividends for three years past, and its distri-
butions over a period of ten_ years do
not average three per cent. This is quite
correct. The experience of the brick companies is
deserving of the sympathy of anybody. In fact,
the history of brick-making in Melbourne during
the last 15 years is one of the most eloquent ex-
pressions of the advantages of State control that
could be found. Among its many failures, private
enterprise has seldom been guilty of more ghastly
fatuity than in this trade. Prior to the boom, a
number of brick companies existed in Melbourne,
and, by quietly and peacefully meeting the demand
caused by the natural expansion of the metro-
polis, they made a good living. Then came
the boom. Sky-scrapers went up in all
directions, miles of jerry cottages were
run up in the suburbs, and more sky-scrapers and
more cottages were projected to cover hundreds of
square miles. The brick companies caught the
fever. They increased their capital out of all
reasonable proportion; and, at the same time,
every man who had any clay in his back-yard
floated it into a new brick company. For a few
months they made merry—some of them never did
even this ; then came the smash, and scattered
over Melbourne from end to end were alleged
brickyards, unable to earn the cost of keeping
their machinery clean. During the years
of depression many passed into the hands
of bailiffs, assignees, and other financial
parasites. Then buildings began to sprout
again, and it was not long before the combine came
into existence. Started by two or three of the
big companies, it took in the little ones that were
still breathing faintly and, in order to effectually
block any future competition, bought up all the
odd clay holes and rusting machinery which lay
defunct in the outer areas. After that the price
was thrust up to 40s. a thousand, and it is still
there. A year or two ago, an enterprising firm
got ho]d of a new clay area and started to fight.
The combine responded in a manner worthy of the
Standard Oil Co., by informing every architect
who used the newcomers’ bricks that the combine
would refuse to deliver its products to any other
job he might have in progress. This threat fail-
ing, the combine sought pacific measures and in a
few months bought out its opponents. Then 40s.
again became the ruling price for ordinary bricks.
It is not a maximum, as the combine’s friends fre-
quently assert. Picked cherry-colored facing
bricks go up to double that sum. And all the
time bricks for consumption outside Melbourne,
where the country companies come into com-
petition, are sold for 10s. less. The position of
shareholders in the combined co. ’s has been un-
doubtedly hard, but there is no reason why the
community should suffer for their ill-luck or lack of
foresight any more than that the community should
be forced to maintain the greengrocer who starts
business where there are already too many green-
grocers. The shareholders have made a bad busi-
ness bargain, and, in accordance with the brutal
law that governs things, they must suffer for it.
It is such suffering that brings out those sturdy
qualities of self-reliance, etc., etc., that anti-
Socialistic orators so often mention. The concern
is still only a mediocre business proposition, owing
to the over-capitalisation it has to face; yet
there is not the slightest moral justification for the
State standing aside and permitting the growth of
Melbourne to be stunted and men kept out of
work on its account.
A Navigation Matter.
From a Federal pressman :
The Mcßeid Government did some peculiar things
during its short and precarious period of office. A
despatch arrived from Alfred Lyttelton, British Secre-
tary of State, on April 20th, asking the Commonwealth to
send four delegates to England, in conjunction with four
from Maoriland, in order to discuss the provisions of the
proposed Australian Navigation Bill. The Mcßeid
Ministry carefully dropped that document into a bag, and
did its best to lose the bag. When the Deai..n Govern-
ment came along it found the bag and rooted out its con-
tents, and immediately forwarded Lyttelton’s despatch
to the Navigation Commission. Lyttelton stipulates
that one delegate shall be sent to represent the ship-
owners and another to talk for the seamen, leaving the other
two open. The Australian Bill is bound to make large
departures from the Imperial Act of 1894, and Lyttelton
holds that if such departures are necessary then it is time
that the Imperial Act was dry-docked and scraped and
revised. The British Act of 1894 gives “ the Colonies ”
power to legislate as regards outside shipping coming to
their ports, and provision is also made to enable
“ colonial ” Legislatures to pass Acts dealing with shipping
within their own jurisdiction—that is, as regards vessels
in the coastal trade and other ships of local registration.
But Bills dealing with ships belonging to any other British
possession must contain a clause suspending their oper-
ation until the Imperial assent has been.handed in by the
flunkey. By the Commonwealth Constitution, however,
the British Parliament has granted the Federal Legislature
full powers to deal, without exception and in as drastic
a fashion as it may' please, with all shipping and navigation
in Australian waters—reserving, of course, the power of
veto. This may mean a lot, as Kingston showed in his
case against the P. and O. In that case the Privy Council
held that the Commonwealth had jurisdiction over all
ships from the time they entered Australian waters
until their final departure, and thus it will be seen that
there are many big questions to be talked over. The
Commonwealth’s Navigation Bill, as submitted to our
Parliament, prevents any ships not owned in this country
from carrying cargo or passengers between Australian
ports unless they take out a license giving the Common-
wealth the right to regulate their operations. This regu-
lation includes a stringent provision for the payment of
Australian rates of wages.
It would be a first-class idea to send four qualified dele-
gates to England, because there are so many points of
divergence between the laws now in force and those with
which it is intended to supplant them. It would be
infinitely better to have the proposed legislation discussed
at length, and perhaps settled satisfactorily, than to have
the Commonwealth’s Bill hung up by the Imperial autho-
rities, arid perhaps vetoed without Australia having any
say in the matter. The Maoriland Navigation Bill was
hung up for 2J years, and the slow British Parliament has
so pronounced a habit of hanging up “ colonial ” matters
that it almost amounts to a disease.
One point is worth stressing. The British shipowners
are, of course, actively hostile to the proposed Austra-
lian legislation ; and the great majority of Bull’s ship-
owners’ associations have arisen and implored the Board
of Trade to speak to Australia in a severe voice. The
Board of Trade, being a thoughtful animal, has had
expert legal advice upon every clause of the proposed
Commonwealth legislation, and has obtained the opinions
of the best men at the British Bar. Consequently, the
delegates that are sent should know their business, both
from the argumentative and the practical side.
♦
A Bill for dealing with the lands attached to
Sydney Observatory calls some attention to a
valuable institution which is gradually being
muddled to pieces by the N.S.W. Government.
Sydney was always the centre of Australian
meteorology just as Melbourne was of astronomy.
Even now it is run by assuredly the ablest and
best known meteorologist in Australia —with an
“acting” appointment, and a: salary of £3OO a
year, as against the £7OO paid in Victoria and
£OOO in Westralia. Westralia pays a clerk in
the meteorological department better than N.S.
Wales pays its chief. The N.S.W. office is
also falling into decay by reason of the in-
creasing difficulty of making correct observa-
tions through shortness of money, lack of instru-
ments, and moth and rust generally. It is always
toiling under almost insuperable difficulties.
When the Commonwealth takes over the business
it will presumably value the Sydney Observatory
at the value the State puts on it, and make it a
small out-station, whereupon the spectre of State
Frights will arise when it is too late and say that
another great injury has been done. Meanwhile,
Adelaide has ideas of being the scientific centre of
Australia, and is said to be already arranging to
take over the business.
+ .
“G.F.S.” on the immigration question:—
I think it is necessary to impress the necessity of indus-
trial and agricultural immigrants. I would favor a Pro-
tectionist tariff—heavy enough to make it impossible for
other countries to supply necessaries which we can easily
manufacture at home. In order to replace the people
who would naturally drift into the industrial cities thus
formed, I would send out responsible men to Europe—
especially to countries where military oppression is
carried on (Schleswig-Holstein, for instance)—and gather
in the oppressed. This would take time and care in
selecting those suitable, for all the oppressed will not
necessarily make good colonists (the Armenians have been
persecuted by the Turks until the English newspapers
have almost melted with grief, and the Armenian still
remains a parasite). Then, having called in all the land
let on improvement leases, and taxed all other land which
is being improperly held out of cultivation, I should'
acquire money by taxation to pay the passage of the
immigrant to Australia and keep him supplied with food
until he was settled on the land.
« —,
A proposed new standing order of the House of
Reps, goes a wrong way to a right end. Under
it the Speaker or Chairman of Committees will
be able to disregard notice of the absence of a
quorum in the House itself if he has reason to
believe that the requisite number of members are
“within the precincts of the House.” Tedious,
drivelling orators are the cause of most counts-out.
Men fit to fight Togo blanch before a prosy blighter
with a three-hours’ capacity, and fly from the
scene. But they don’t mean to quit the House
or break up business ; they only want to avoid
the abomination of verbal desolation. Therefore
when the number present falls below quoium
strength the Speaker or Chairman should not
have power to close up business, but should
have power to direct the talker to discontinue
his desolating utterances. Then the bell should
be rung, and, if a quorum is found, the next man
should start, but, if he also loses his quorum, he
should be closed down in the same fashion,
The proposed standing order will allow the
bore to go on filling Hansard and blocking busi-
ness. Now a sitting member within the pre-
mises is not a sitting member in the ordinary run
of cases. It is only while in the deliberative
chamber he can exercise his Parliamentary power,
and counting him a member of a quorum while he
is out of the chamber is taking the vote of a legis-
latively dead man. More than that, such a stand-
ing order is liable to all sorts of abuses. How is
the Speaker or Chairman to know what or how
many members are stowed away in distant parts
of the premises, or in what state of body or mind
they may be ?
4
Thus Parson Fitchett of the gory battle stories :
The incident of the Six Hatters was picturesque enough
to arrest attention throughout the Empire, and it pro-
foundly and justly shocked British susceptibilities. The
Six Hatters have probably cost Australia £1,000,000 each
by the damage they have done to the Australian reputa-
tion for common sense.
Will Fitchett give particulars, and clear definite
evidence of the loss of even £1,000,000 to Australia
through the incident he raves about. He isn’t asked
to support his yarn about a loss of £6,000,000, but
will he show a loss of one-sixth that sum ? Since
the Six Hatters incident Australia’s revenues
have looked up ; its States in the aggregate
have began to show a surplus instead of
the old regular deficit ; two States have
managed to leave off borrowing; the other four
are, in the aggregate, borrowing less than before ;
population is increasing faster than before ; and
there has been a wonderful accumulation of money
in the country, as shown by the banking returns.
Where is the loss of £6,000,000, or £1,000,000, or
even £lOO,OOO ? If Parson Fitchett can’t point
it out, then, by reason of his slanders, he is a
national discredit.
The Law in Victoria is just now in a glorious
tangle over the Chinese ticket-marking lottery
business. A while back some score of Chows
were fined by a P.M. about £lOOO altogether for
running a lottery. They appealed, and the first
three cases came before Justice Hodges, who
quashed them, on the ground that there was “ no
evidence that Ah Fat and his mates made any
promise or agreement to pay £75 or any other
sum if a person who marked a ticket succeeded in
striking out ten hieroglyphics corresponding with
the bank’s ten.” Justice Hodges admitted having
his doubts, but his nice legal mind wanted incon-
trovertible proof that Ah Fat aforesaid wasn’t
paying a large rent for a small shop, and spending
16 hours a day therein blotting out figures on
scraps of dirty paper, just for the pure joy of the
thing and for the pleasure of gazing on
hundreds of hard-faced individuals who handed
him 6d. apiece for the love of marking
similar scraps of dirty paper. Last week
14 more cases came before Justice a’Beckett—
who straightway dismissed the first appeal, putting
the matter briefly and lucidly thus: “A person
went to a place where someone was behind a
counter. Money was paid for a ticket. There
was a conversation as to the purchaser ‘ going for
a certain bank,’ and when the purchaser returned
he looked at something to ascertain the result.
Then, according to the number of corresponding
marks on certain tickets, he received a prize or
nothing. That being the evidence, the whole trans-
action explained itself as a lottery. The only other
explanation would be that they werelunaticsindulg-
ingin an act of lunacy.” This j udgment, lookedat
carefully, was considerably and justly severe on
brother Hodges. The rest of the appeals were
hastily postponed till next month, when broth 'r
Madden or Holroyd may have a cut in and
involve the subject in further gloom and mystery.
Meanwhile the defendant in the latest appeal—
Ah Lean, or words to that effect—threatens to
appeal to the High Court; but if that regrettable
heathen is well advised he will be satisfied with
such costs and fines as he has already sustained.
The High Court is a practical sort of' animal, and
is almost certain to uphold his conviction- —With
further costs.
♦ ? , s -
Thus Senator Best, recently returned ftom
abroad, concerning the British howl at Australian
Socialistic legislation • :
The pessimistic complaints that I heard Seemed to me
all the more unreasonable when I looked round and ;s5/,v
in the management of British affairs far more advanced
forms of Socialism than we have yet attempted in'Aus-
tralia. Take, for instance, the enterprises of the Lon-
don County Council, not only its vast system of
cheap tramways (controlled with a special regard
for the needs of the poorest section of the work-
ing classes), but its housing schemes, to which it
is committed to the extent of over £5,000,000, anct its
recent expenditure of £200,000 or more in the construc-
tion and launching of a line of passenger steamers on the
Thames, to replace an inefficient service formerly carried
on by a company. There- is ho limit to the business
ambitions of the London County Council, and they are all
more or less socialistic in character and tendency.
According to recent statistics, the annual expenditure of
the local bodies of England and Wales works put at about
£122,000,000. That a very large proportion of this outlay
goes in the establishment and maintenance of trading
enterprises is, of course, well-known. The municipal
authorities have never hesitated during the last 10 years
or so to incur heavy financial responsibilities when it
appeared advisable to' do so in the general interests of the
community.
A yen is 2s. or thereabouts; and this list shows
the amazing growth of the Japanese debt in that
coin :
1871 .. 4,880,000
1877 .. 67,774,000
1878 .. 250,026,000
1894 .. 299,447,000
1897 .. 421,245,000
1899 .. 506,167,000
1902 .. 559,621,000
1904 .. 994,437,000
And the debt has been growing this current year
as fast as it did in the last two years in' this list.
Therefore to pull through the present disturbance
Japan has had to more than double its debt. The
figures are enough to make Australia think hard.
What would its chances, after exhausting its
credit in peace time, be of raising £50,000,000 or
£100,000,000 supposing it had to fight for its life ?
And what would be the condition of the Monkey’s
tail by now if, instead of keeping some of its
borrowing powers in reserve, it had drained the
market before the war of every pound that the
market would lend? Even as it was, Japan
would certainly have had a struggle to get the
money to carry on with if it hadn’t been so remark-
ably successful in the beginning of the row that
lenders began to look on an indemnity and
some new territory as part of the security ;
and Australia, r unprepared Australia, can t
reasonably expect to have that sort of help.
Almost as much as it needs gun-factories
and guns, Australia needs a reserve of Cohen s
confidence ; but whenever anybody mentions that
Cohen has got in a small stock of it, Australia
takes the hint and rushes him, and draws on the
confidence to the last copper; so its chance of
being able to double its debt, when it may be
necessary to do that or be wiped out, is kept
at a uniform nil. . '/


[Cailler’s
Swiss Milk 1
Chocolate
OUR
COMPETITION.
FREE WATCHES
FOB EVERYBODY.
SEND YOUR ADDRESS FOR
SAMPLE AND PARTICULARS.
CAILLER’S,
Mutual Life Building, Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
:
m
%
llahens’
<TOOACCOS
[HAVE STOOD THE
TESTofTIME
ARE GOING STRONG
.withouttheaid
IFTRUSTorComBINE
The Quality alone
assuring its success
sdf
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Lyceum Belle Crome Co.
Ukr Majesty's ........ “Trilby.”
Theatre Royal “ A Sailor’s Sweetheart.”
Criterion “The Walls of Jericho.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace “In Town.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s; “The J.P.”
Hf.r Majesty’s “ The Cingalee.”
Theatre Royal “ Besieged in Port Arthur.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall The Great Thurston.
♦
“Magda” stands the test of many revi-
vals, and each fresh presentation strengthens the
impression that it is one of the notable plays of
last century—an epoch singularly barren of good
dramatic work. Sudermann treats his theme so
masterfully that the intellectual appeal saves the
emotional from becoming too distressing. The
conflict of human motives it presents is necessarily
tragic in incident and in catastrophe; between
the stupidity, pride, and narrow-mindedness of
the father and the worldly wisdom, vanity, and
greatness of character of the daughter something
must be crushed, Sudermann gives what is the
just and natural outcome of the conflict —a tragic
ending, in which the father loses his life, and the
happiness of all the little household is shattered.
That is inevitable, assuming the antecedent con-
ditions. There can be no compromise. The old
father, with his German ideas of sentiment and
purity and duty aggravated by a lunacy which
has taken a religious tendency; the vain and
prattling step-mother, and the artless sister, who
suffers from anaemia and hysterical emotionalism ;
the clever, stormy Magda, her character hardened
to steel by many loves, sorrows and treacheries,
returning home as a prodigal with the Golden
Calf of worldly success—these conflicting ele-
ments thrown together must breed tragedy.
Of course such problems are hardly possible of
occurrence in real life. A wise provision of Nature
makes like, as a rule, breed like and when a
cuckoo life comes into the domestic nest, a tragic
clash of characters is, as a rule, averted by the
fact that the strange-natured child inspires no
deep paternal affection. In short a Col. Sch wartze
does not have a Magda as a child, or, if he does,
he has not for her that deep unreasoning affection
which makes the difference of her character from
his a matter of life and death. The fact that the
conflict of the play is thus not exactly human,
but rather one between types than real persons,
makes the tragedy less bitter. It is to Sudermann’s
praise that he has put his problem quite fairly,
that he takes a strictly impersonal view of the
issue, and allows the type which is Magda and the
type which is Col. Sch wartze to plead each its
own case. The subsidiary characters are equally
well-handled—the pastor, who is a preacher with-
out being a prig ; the sly, unwholesome, canting
politician, who first betrayed Magda and set her
on the path of sorrow and to greatness.
* * * *
“ Magda ” was always one of the best of
Miss Nance O’Neil’s impersonations. The revival
of the play on Saturday night at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), after the lapse of some years, shows
her the possessor of a riper art than hitherto.
She has lost some of her exuberance and
has worked up the finer shades of the part.
M‘Kee Rankin’s Colonel Sch wartze is the same
masterly bit of work that Sydney so well remem-
bers ; it makes one forgive him his Macbeth.
John Glendinning, in the very trying part of the
Pastor, is manly and pleasant; and Miss Jane
Marbury’s Marie is more than successful. Miss
Ricca Allen, Gaston Mervale and Andrew Robson
also contribute to the success of a well-balanced
performance.
#* * *
“The Walls of Jericho” at Sydney
Criterion draws crowded houses. Sydney
“Pointers” follow the ways of the smart set-
ways as devious as those of the serpent on the
rock that Solomon mentioned —with intense
interest, and feel quite complacent in the thought
that “ we and the London smart set have much in
common.” Cigarettes, gambling, cake-walking,
and drivelling belong to both cities alike. And
then the Brough artists take all the vulgarity out
of it by their finished acting. The “Walls” will
endure for many nights to come.
** * *
At Sydney Royal an assortment of virtuous
heroine, comic relief man, comedy girl, and
British Jack Tar is still being saved nightly by a
brass band from crucifixion in the middle of
Africa. As to what happens to them while they
are in the hands of the brass band, the play says
nothing ; perhaps after a longer experience of the
band they regret the interruption of the cruci-
fixion proceedings. “ A Sailor’s Sweetheart ”
draws good houses, and no change is as yet sug-
gested.
* * *
This (Thursday) and to-morrow evenings
the “Bohemian Girl” wall dream at Sydney
Palace of her marble halls, and Thaddeus will
sing of his flat, cold, uninteresting Poland,
where the sledded Polack used to be.
Edward Farley takes his old part of Devilshoof, a
character in which he was always interesting. The
public is cordially urged to attend, partly on
acoount of Devilshoof and partly for the sake of a
grand old opera, which is becoming somewhat
soaroe these days. By way of a sudden descent
from the sublime to the irresponsible and the
degenerate, “In Town” will follow on Saturday.
** * *
The Belle Crome Co., which has been
playing at Sydney’s Centenary Hall, goes into the
Lyceum next Saturday. It is a gay little
troupe. Miss Crome must have much of that
quality that Wise Men have just discovered
in the sun —radio-activity, or something to that
effect. She is as bright and light as a sunbeam ;
she dances, sings, plays on the bells and violin,
and bubbles with comedy instinct, and seems to
walk on air all the while. Mr. Ebenezer Vickery
is to be congratulated on his new departure. The
Lyceum was beginning to have a church-mouse
reputation, and to smell of the tombs of the saints.
There’s a nice Queensland girl in the troupe —Miss
Jefferson—who took the Eistedfodd honors for
three consecutive years in the Banana State,
where they Eistedfodd with some energy when
they start; also there is a bass singer—one
Williams —a young man who was once a soloist
at the Royal chapel at Kevv (England), His voice
is so good and well-trained that writer concludes
from his coming unheralded that he must have
strayed here, or possibly his health was doubtful
and he wanted a new atmosphere and a change of
germs.
** * #
Sydney and the Tivoli are seeing the last
of Kara, the deft juggler whom a long spell of
’citis seems only to have made more frisky.
Nobody would have thought that the most proper
and precise person of three months ago would ever
cake-walk across the stage ; and yet he often
breaks out into that now. ’Citis will have an
added terror if the cake-walk is numbered among
its after-effects. The first result of manager
Rickards’ present orbit among the stars of the
European ’eavens is M. Payen and the little
lady who introduces him in dumb language.
Payer), presented as a mechanical Pierrot,
who goes when he is wound up, preserves the
semblance of automatonism through an act in
which there is a great deal of padding. There
are a few acts on the hanging ropes which are
good, but any amount of men get less money for
more work—the whole strength of the turn lies in
its unique dressing. Bella Perman furnishes one
attractive item, and one banal coon item dressed
in chiffons; and the rest has either been mentioned
before or doesn’t deserve to be mentioned now.
* -£ se *
. . The Nellie Stewart season at Melbourne
Princess’s has been a rush of revivals since the
middle of last week, when the opening “double
bill”—“’Op O’ Me Thumb” and “ The Marquis
de Treville”—was supplanted by “Her Own
Way.” In both performances the star shone
brightly, but public interest in the one-part plays
was rather dull. On Saturday came “ Camille,”
the drama which is beginning to rival “ East
Lynne” as an attraction for the moister sex.
Melbourne had not previously seen Miss Stewart
and the Musgrove co. suffer the grief and woe that
befalls everybody in “ Camille,” so the occasion
was marked by some new enthusiasm, and the
heroine’s gorgeous costume, fatal cough, and effec-
tive performance were applauded vigorously.
“ Pretty Peggy ” is due to-night (Thursday), and
“ Sweet Nell ” will close the season to-morrow.
# * *• *
A new comedy—“ The J.P.”—and a new
company enrolled under the new banner of
Meyneli and Gunn, will come to light at the
Princess’s on Saturday. “The J.P.” claims to
be a wildly funny thing, full of domestic interest.
The advt. states that it has left two million
joyous hearts in its wake, which dimly suggests
that they died of laughing at it. J. J. Dallas,
the principal comedian, is somewhat known to
this country by repute, and Miss Florence Lloyd,
the leading lady, is affectionately remembered as
the Miss Lloyd of some years ago. Another
member of the co. who will not want an intro-
duction is Miss Maud Chetwynd, back from Eng-
land and other foreign parts.
%
“The Cingalee ” prospered exceedingly at
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) last week, and if there
is room for any further prosperity this week the
Williamsonian theatre will get it. An orthodox
musical comedy of the most expensive sort, played
by the R.C.O. Company immediately on its
return from a long tour —well, by any other new
name than “The Cingalee” it would smell as
sweet. The name, and the costumes, are new
features of this very orthodox production. The
prima donna is nice and new, and the unexpected
appearance of Miss Rose Musgrove, confirms the
pleasing announcement that she didn’t die in
Sydney when she was said to do so. To feel
positively assured on this point is worth all the
money charged for admission.
This is the fourth week of “ Besieged in
Port Arthur.” Outside of Bland Holt’s melo-
drama peace has been declared between the
Russians and Japs, therefore a fine opportunity
offers for breaking the news to Brown who im-
personates a Jap warrior. According to the cable
a number of heart-broken brown men wept bitterly
when they heard the terms of peace. There is no
reason why a special messenger from the Mikado
shouldn’t bring the tidings to Brown, whereupon
Brown might exclaim, “ O my revered ancestors ! ”
and then burst into tears.
** * *
Howard Thurston, commonly known as
“ The Great,” took possession of Melb. Athenaeum
Hall last-' Saturday, and for the next few weeks
that quiet-spoken Master of Black Arts will do
the uncanny things he lately introduced to Sydney.
Thurston talks less and performs more than the
average magician. His manner of dealing with
the property he borrows from the audience is excep-
tionally adroit. When he calls certain cards from
the vasty wine-glass they ascend far into space
and remain stationary instead of jumping
out nervously. Also a horizontal lady rises
in the same calm, deliberate manner under
the seeming attraction of the wizard’s finger-
tips. The effect is called an illusion, although
the lady is as sweetly real as they make them.
Another quaint subject for conjecture is a glass
tank, firstly filled with water, which water is sub-
sequently strengthened with a liberal infusion of
girl. The late King George lIT., who couldn’t
understand how the grapes got into the jelly,
would have been staggered at the appearance of
the girls in the tank. Thurston’s manual dexterity
and deceptive contrivances took Melbourne’s
fancy on the first night, but the elaborate stage-
setting for the second part of his show necessitated
a long intermezzo entertainment-illustrated songs
and biograph that need severe editing.
* * *
Miss Jessie Maclachlan—the braw, like-
wise the bonnie, ballad singer—made her re-ap-
pearance at Melb. Town Hall last Saturday, and
was to give an alleged final concert on Tuesday.
There is, however, a divinity called General
Desire who doth oftimes shape the ends of popular
songstresses, and maybe the end of Miss
Maclachlan will be prolonged until later than
Tuesday in the present week, in which case
intending patrons are earnestly requested to buy
their tickets early and relieve the crush at the
doors.
** * *
At the Opera House, the first results of
manager Rickards’ pilgrimage through Europe
and America will be submitted to popular taste
on Saturday. In the meantime, several people
are preparing to go away, and when they are
quite gone their spaces are to be more than filled
by selections from the invading army of talent.
The Gilbert and Sullivan Co. at Adelaide
Royal has called up many memories of old casts.
Judged by its own merits, it is a bright and
pleasing combination, doing fair justice to the
plavs, which already seem a little old-fashioned,
so entirely have other writers failed to copy their
spirit. Holly Castles and Aggie Thorne carry on
old traditions by coming only up to their lovers
chins, and Vinia Heloitte is smaller than either
of them. The Frank Clark Co. has left the
Tivoli, and is appearing in Port Adelaide at
present. Harry Shine is as funny as ever, and
.Lizzie Kirk has a wink which deepens by at least
two shades the already cerulean tint of her songs.
Into the Tivoli has come Sheridan with “The
Earl and the Girl,” and the dog-trainer and the
iron-jawed lady and the American bounder crowd
the small house nightly.
The Wild Cat Column.
When N.S.W.’s unfinished and unsatisfactory
Premier finds a State enterprise which is doing well and
making handsome profits for the community, his first idea,
apparently, is to close it up and get the work done in a
worse fashion and at greater cost by private enterprise.
By way of a case in point it, has been decided to abolish
the Treasurer’s State Fire Insurance account. A little
over a year ago the State decided to be its own fire insur-
ance co. as regards the resumed area of Sydney, and
started a new fire insurance institution of which it was
the sole client. The new concern opened without any
paid-up capital, but its callable capital was simply the
whole assets of the State —say £370,000,000 —so it was
eminently qualified to carry the £750,000 of fire risks
which comprised its business, according to latest advices.
The State Fire Insurance business seems to have worked
at a disadvantage, inasmuch as the premiums paid into
the fund appear to have been a good deal less than those
that would have been charged by a private office ; never-
theless it did amazingly well. This was its record: —
Added to Total
June, Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Reserves. Reserves.
1904 .. £BBB Nil Nil £BSB £BBB
1905 .. 1,463 Nil £47 1,416 2,304
The State Fire Insurance Department, therefore, was
doing handsomely, and if its funds had been separately
invested at interest, as they should have been, it would,
by reason of the interest receipts, have done still better.
Also, if the premiums paid to it had been as large as those
charged by private offices —wdiich, apparently, they
weren’t—it would have done better still. It had no divi-
dends to pay, so its funds were likely to accumulate faster
—if it were given fair play—than those of any private in-
stitution. Certainly it had a rather concentrated risk of
£750,000, but its risk, in proportion to the resources be-
hind the institution, was smaller than that of any private
office. It was probably the only fire institution in the
world, bar the Maoriland State Office, whose callable
capital was 400 times larger than the whole amount of its
insurances. And it has already saved the State about
£BOO in expenses, for out of £2351 paid to private offices
fully £BOO would go in inspection charges, directors’fees,
office expenses, advertising and sundries.
The reason given for shutting up the business
and insuring with private institutions is that the reserve
fund isn’t at all commensurate with the amount of risk.
Who expected it would be after only 18 months? What
private office, after only 18 months’existence, has reserves
at all commensurate with the amount at risk ? Of course,
if the State department made a heavy loss in its early
days it would have to do what private offices do, and pay
it out of its capital—that is, in this case, out of the public
funds. Then it would have to trust, as private offices
have to do, to the law of. averages to enable it
to make good the loss, and, after that, build up
new reserves. Possibly the N.S.W. Government,
when it gives the business to private offices, will
offer a share to the Colonial Mutual —now a splendid
institution, with £lOO,OOO paid-up capital (£62,500 of this
wasn’t paid by the shareholders but consists of profits
transferred to capital account) and £71,127 of reserves.
Or rather it would be more accurate to say that the
Colonial Mutual has £37,500 of capital and £133,627 of
reserves, seeing that so much of the capital is really
reserves. Yet some 14 years ago this co. was in a condi-
tion some hundreds of times worse than the N.S.W. State
Fire Insurance Department. Instead of having reserves
commensurate with its risks it had no reserves at all, and
out of its capital of £37,500 it had lost £19,911. It was
carrying an immense business —a business about forty
times the size of that done by the State office which
Carruthers is closing up—with only about £17,589 of
total assets, backed by whatever chance it might have
to collect £62,500 in calls from its shareholders on an
emergency. On Carruthers’ principles it should have
closed up long before things became as bad as this, instead
of going ahead and becoming about the most successful
office in Australia. Premier Carruthers has two probable
motives in shutting up an enterprise that has begun so
well. One is to cast discredit on State enterprise, even if
private enterprise costs the State more, in which case he
is only following out the policy which he adopted in the
locomotive-building'matter. The other is a desire to grab
the insurance fund of £2304 for his hungry Treasury.
The plucky and persistent Sandford, of Lith-
gow, was the only tenderer for the next seven years’ iron
and steel supplies of N.S.W. Government; average prices,
though a trifle higher than those now ruling, work out
lower than those of the past seven years. But even with
a seven years’contract, Sandford, Ltd., won’t undertake
to tender for the whole of the requirements ; it wants to
be assured of the Australian market first, and that can
only be done through a Protective tariff. There is not a
great deal of money in the mere manufacture of pig iron
and unwrought steel; the working up of these raw pro-
ducts into manufactured goods, of which the Government
takes hardly any, would give far more occupation to
both labor and capital, and only high Protection can
secure this work for Australia. The supply of private
people—not merely of the State—must be the main sup-
port of an iron and steel industry. By the way, the crowd
which talks so much of the evils of centralising so vast a
proportion of the population—the “decentralisation”
push of which John Haynes used to be the self-appointed
prophet—ought to be backing up the iron industry
strongly ; yet, strangely enough, it is mostly on the other
side. A great iron industry would, in time, make Lithgow
a rival of Sydney. Nothing attracts population away
from one bloated city like the supply of a liberal amount
of work elsewhere. While Australia is mainly an import-
ing country as regards manufactures, and an exporter of
raw materials, each State will have a bloated seaport
where the imports and exports congregate.
* « » *
History of the Sydney Ferries Co. is interest-
ing. The North Shore Ferry Co. was floated in 1878 with
a cash capital of £20,000 subscribed. In March, 1885,
10,000 new £1 shares were issued at a premium of ss.
£30,000. In March, 1889, 10,000 new shares were allotted
to shareholders, “owing to improved value in freehold
property, etc.” —£40,000. In March, 1894, 20,000 new
shares were allotted as “proceeds of sale of wharf, etc.,”
making- the total capital of the North Shore Perrv Co.
£60,000. When the North Shore Perry Co. became the
Sydney Perries Co. in December, 1899, the old share-
holders received two fully-paid £1 shares for
one in the old eo., making the new co.’s capi-
tal £120,000. In April, 1902, 20,000 shares were
issued at par, £20,000 ; so the present capital of the
Sydney Ferries is 140,000 shares of £l, fully paid. Total
value of Sydney Perries stock (on day when this was
written), at buyers’ price of 565. per share, is £392,000;
at sellers’ price of 60s. per share it is £420,000. The
actual cash paid in the case of the North Shore Ferry Co.
was £30,000 and a premium of ss. on 10,000 shares—£2soo;
and in the case of the Sydney Perries, £20,000. So that
th e total of cash actually paid by shareholders was £52,500,
and the present valuation of the stock represents eight
times the amount of cash originally invested. The
difference between cash invested and investment value
represents an unearned increment due to the develop-
ment of North Sydney. N.S.W. Government built an
expensive railway line from Milson’s Point to Hornsby,
along which thousands of residences are clustered, arid
which brings thousands of people to Circular Quay every
day. On the other side, N.S.W. Government railways
land passengers at Redfern to be conveyed by Govern-
ment trams to Circular Quay, where the Sydney Perries
Co. takes them on board and lands them at- Milson’s
Point. Between the two Government systems there is
thus a mile of water-carriage in the hands of a private
monopoly, which the State feeds every hour of the day.
As Sydney is apparently going to wait twenty years
longer for the North Shore bridge, the profit of the ferry
service should be taken by the State railway systems that
feed it. The Railway Commissioners can presumably run
a ferry as well as they run a train or a tram. Then why
don’t they ?
Further, it is absurd to say that the North
Shore private ferry service is so excellently managed that
the State couldn’t possibly do it as well. Thousands of
passengers are still landed by side-planks, to meet on the
wharf other thousands collected to go on board by the
same side-planks. In New York the passenger ferries are
served by double-ended boats, similar to the present
Sydney horse-ferry. The boat runs right up on to the
pontoon, a barrier falls, and the passengers walk ashore
30 or 40 abreast. Those are the boats wanted on the Mil-
son’s Point service. Further, the turnstile system is
antiquated. It is ludicrous to see a Saturday-night crowd
from North Shore jamming through the Circular Quay
turnstiles one by one. If the tram system can be run by
tickets, then the ferry system can also. And there are
minor grievances.
* * * *
The Bank of New Zealand (Maoriland)
Old Losses Paid towards Interest
and Colonial Loss on money
Bank Purchase of Assets advanced Divi-
Pro- Written Realisation by dend Re-
fits. Off. Board. State. 5 p.c. serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
Balance £384 23,858
’96 119,700 35,709 84,375 23,474
’97 136,891 39,391 97,500 23,474
’9B 182,532 10,132 74,900 97,500 23,474
’99 191,420 43,920 50,000 97,500 23,474
’OO 242,520 95,020 50,000 97,500 23,474
’Ol 300,242 160,665 50,000 89,577 23,474
’O2 289,502 37,001 151,135 80,000 21,366 23,474
’O3 290,591 15,001 174,410 80,000 21,180 23,474
’O4 293,316 12,500 179,022 80,000 21,281 23,987
’O5 340,819 15,001 206,312 51,978 47,618 43,897
The position has been somewhat changed during
the year. The £2,000,000 of State-guaranteed stock
was reduced in July, 1904, to £1,000,000; the
State also became a regular shareholder, holding
£500,000 in preference shares. These movements
explain the changes in the columns, “ Interest ” and
“Dividends.” The capital is now £1,000,000 4 p.c.
guaranteed stock, £500,000 in pref. shares, and £452,370
in ordinary shares. Pref. shares (the State’s) receive a
first 5 p.c. ; after that, 1 p.c. rise for every 2 p.c. over 5
p.c. that ordinary shares get, but stopping at 10 p.c.
When ordinary shares get 9 p.c. the prefs. thus get 7 p.c.;
but even if the ordinaries get, say, 20 p.c., the prefs. can-
not go beyond 10 p.c. The £1,000,000 guaranteed stock
falls due in 1914. The ordinary shares (136,217) are paid
to £3 6s. Bd., and are liable for another £3 6s. Bd.
The B.N.Z.’s Assets Realisation Board
Loss on Less Re-
Loss on Property Total ceived from
Business. Sold. Loss. B.N.Z. Deficit.
£54,507
1896 .. £43,860 £43,860 £35,709 62,658
1897 .. 41,814 £45,231 87,045 39,391 110,312
1898 .. 56,629 55,924 112,553 74,900 147,965
1899 .. 53,010 28,355 81,365 60,000 179,330
1900 .. 6,623 28,463 35,086 50,000 164,416
1901 .. 22,185 22,530 44,715 50,000 159,131
1902 .. 62,286 18,365 80,651 151,135 88,647
Reserves.
1903 .. 37,988 7,117 45,085 174,410 40,678
1904 .. 26,196 110,072 136,268 179,022 83,432
1905 .. 31,851 6,426 38,277 206,312 251,467
Into this concern the wreckage was cast after the “ right-
thinking people ” had borrowed, b oomed and burst. The
realisation of the old, shady-looking assets has been
helped probably just as much as the new business by the
remarkable prosperity which has followed the reversal of
the old order of politics, and, between the two successes,
there is little of the old ruin left. The current year’s
banking profit will provide more than enough to cover the
whole anticipated loss on the realisation of properties
still in hand. Then, no doubt, with a steady increase of
the reserves (though the £1,000,000 of guaranteed stock
falling due in 1914 must be kept in view), dividends will
move up. Down to the present, with losses from realisa-
tions still calling for help, this is how the combined busi-
ness has shown up :
Combined Board’s Loss
Result of on Pro- Written Visible
* Business, perty Sales, off. Dividend. Deficit
Balance £384 —■ £30,649
Loss.
1896.. 8,535 39,184
1897 .. 2,423 £45,231 86,838
Net Profit.
189 S .. 28,403 55,924 £10,132 124,491
1899 .. 40,910 28,355 43,920 155,856
1900.. 138,397 '28,463 95,020 140,942
1901 .. 188,480 22,530 160,665 135,657
1902 .. 147,216 18,365 37,001 £21,366 65,173
Nominal
Reserves.
1903 .. 172,623 7,117 15,001 21,180 64,152
1904 .. 187,120 110,072 12,500 21,281 107,419
1905.. 256,990 6,426 15,001 47,618 295,364
In hand on March 31st (according to the chairman) were
£403,000 worth of properties (book value), and it was esti-
mated that there would be a loss of £158,822 on the whole
of the remaining realisations. If this estimate is within
the mark, the joint concern has already a substantial
amount of real reserve.
In 10 years the combined B.N.Z. and Assets
Board has accomplished this :


sd
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Minin 0 * Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS —Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives —t’.e., EVERYTHING.
OS’ Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. “SS
CENTRAL MINING &. TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Pror. Ltd., 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—so 4 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining’ and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grirn-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
• * * 4 *
Financial News (London) July 15, 1904,
writes with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited : —“ It is especially creditable to the
management that a steady rate of progress has been
maintained during the last few years, when general con-
ditions in all the company’s fields of operations have been
unfavorable.”*
* * * *
The Waihi Mine management (M.L.), is making
extensive additions to the milling plant in order to be
in a position to deal more effectively with the sulphide
ores which will for the future be the product from their
lower levels. Concentration will be a special feature in
the treatment, and the company accordingly, before
deciding upon the type of concentrator to be adopted,
made exhaustive tests of the different machines pro-
curable in the market and finally decided to adopt the
Wilfley Concentrator, and have placed an order for 25
tables with the Austral Otis Engineering Company, South
Melbourne, sole manufacturers for Australasia. This
firm has just completed and shipped the machines to the
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific, glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbeiuserg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
Charters Towers. — Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
*' * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arno'tt, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
* * * *
East Mexican, Towers, seems by its half-yearly
report to be getting its eye in. Earnings for six months,
£759 ; expenses, £733 ;• profit, £26. Calls (three of 3d. each)
have been made and placed to the credit of the co. for
future working. Tributors are fulfilling labor conditions
at present, and the Brilliant Block hauls the stone. Co.
is content to wait for Mills United shoot of stone to reach
its lease ; which is wise, considering that the School Re-
serve has first call, and East Mexican may on.'y get a
corner. Says the report: “If Mills’ shoot extends
upwards, most of it will eventually come into our
ground.” Exactly—“if.” Anyway, the co. wants a new
straight shaft to start with ; the shaft it has in view to
work from is 850 ft. deep, whereas the reef at the shal-
lowest point seen yet in Mills’ is 1400 ft., and considerably
over 1000 ft. from the 850 ft. shaft. Seems feasible to
work through the School Reserve shaft. It is big enough
to haul all the stone co. is likely to get for months yet.
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand ” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
Net Profit .. £1,149,181
Total .. £1,149,1 SI
Loss on Sales .. £322,483
Written Off .. 389,240
Dividends .. .. 111,445
Deficit wiped out 30,049
Reserves built up 295,364
Total .. £1,149,181
The people who undertook the job of clearing-up were
faced with assets having a book value of £2,731,706 ; and
a loss of fully half of this was predicted. The deficit on
this property account has, however, worked out like this:
Ascertained Loss provided for .. .. £322,483
Book Values written down .. .. 139,988
Further Losses estimated .. .. 158,882
Total £621,353
The other writings-off shown above have been in respect
of debenture conversion account, bank property, Colonial
Bank goodwill, &c.
But though only a further loss of £158,882 is
expected, the assets finally and fully disposed of as yet
amount to only £1,056,569 of the original total of
£2,731,706. Apparently the £139,988 written off is against
the balance of £1,675,137 which remains to be finally dis-
posed of. Of these latter, properties partially realised
have brought in £629,728. Reducing the £1,675,137 by
£139,988, being the amount written off, we get
£1,535,149 as the amount at which the properties
not fully realised still stand in the books ; and
it is expected that the loss will be £158,882.
The ascertained loss on £1,056,569 book value has been
£322,492 ; the loss on £1,675,137, either already provided
for or for which it is thought provision is necessary, is
£298,870. Presumably the Assets Board has sufficient
data on which to base the estimate that only £158,882 in
addition to the £139,988 already provided will be neces-
sary ; if so, and the estimate works out all right, it only
shows what a marvellous recovery values have made
under Maoriland’s progressive policy of the past 10 years.
* « * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan,
Gray and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Added Nomi-
Written to Re- nal Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1898.. £5,965 £8,591
1899.. 8,614 £5,854 £2760 11,351
1900 .. 10,981 7,757 3224 14,575
1901 .. 9,538 22,863 1,250
About £90,000 Capital Written Off.
1902 .. 9,026 9026 10,276
1903.. 7,499 5 p.c. =£3750 3749 14,025
1904.. 4,311 5 „ „ 3750 ' 561 14,586
1905 .. 3,983 5 „ „ 3855 128 14,714
According to the chairman’s statement, £3262 was written
off “ bad debts and hotel accounts ” during the year ; but
the published accounts do not show these transactions.
Nor (apart from the chairman’s statement) are there any
means of ascertaining how much more has to be written
off hotel account; the managing director says he thinks
“ finality has been reached.” The bad debts account is,
of course, more or less of a permanency. Movements in
detail have been as follows :
1898 1903 1904 1905
Capital .. .. £150,000 £77,037 £77,091 £77,106
Revenue .. .. 28,274 30,096 25,208 22,755
Expenses .. .. 22,308 25,597 20,897 21,772
Debt to Public .. 133,314 68,564 64,862 63,727
Premises, Plant, &c. 140,709 88,525 88,184 90,278
Hotels .. .. 67,846 16,500 16,500 16,500
Stocks & Debtors.. 83,351 56,476 63,729- 50,781
It comes to this, then : since 1898 the co. ’s assets have been
reduced by £134,347, and its liabilities to the public by
£69,587. It has been necessary for the co. to reduce its
assets by £134,347 —though £17,106 has been called up
from shareholders and only three dividends have been
paid out of current profits—in order to reduce the debt by
£69,587. It shows the depth of the bog into Which
Queensland’s old policy of borrow and boom landed this
co. What the true trading profit at present is it is im-
possible to say, because it is not known how much is still
being thrown into the bog and charged to expenses ; but,
assuming that the profit is £5500 a year, that would mean
a return of a little over 3J per cent, on the whole assets,
including hotels, stocks and outstanding debts ; at £4OOO
the return is only 2£ per cent. Either, then, the real
trading profit is a good deal more than £4OOO, or some of
the assets are still overvalued. Which it is there is no
evidence to show. All that can be said for sure is that,
if there was not a large undisclosed writing-down, then
the co. can’t afford to pay 5 per cent, on the basis of last
year’s operations.
* * * *
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Q.)
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
June, 1903.. £949
Dec., 1903.. £1614 P o rd'} = £7l3 £747 795
June, 1904.. 1501 9 p.c. pref. „ 116 708 116
Dec., 1904.. 1666 {^c.OTd!} ” 719 831 “
June, 1905.. 1237 Nil 1237
Lighting co.s’ published accounts are in most cases sus-
picions, and the record of this co. shows why. It went
on paying large divs. for years, neglecting to write
off anything adequate for depreciation and provide for the
inevitably necessary renewals, until it found itself at a
standstill, with the auditors refusing to certify to the
balance-sheet. Dividends have therefore to be now hung
up -while the capital that was distributed in dividends
is restored. And a reduction in the price of gas
has been forced on it, cutting down its profits and
prolonging the agony. Even now, but before the writing-
off now provided for, electric light plant, mains and
fittings stand in at £11,241, while the gross revenue
from this branch has amounted in 12 months to
only £714, and the actual loss on working account has
been £ll3. In addition to its own capital the co. carries
£22,000 of debenture debt, which doesn’t lessen its diffi-
culties. The one thing in its favor is that it has recog-
nised the size of its troubles, and drops the dividend
altogether. The directors now recommend that the
electric light works be closed. Works that are not worth
running are not worth keeping in the balance-sheet (ex-
cept at value for removal) ; and in that case the co. had
better do the honest thing- and write off what it has lost—
or, rather, what it has pocketed as divs. that weren’t
earned.
* * * *
As far as it has gone, Coppabella (N.S.W.) has
given much more work to sharebrokers than to miners.
The market for a long while had had nothing in particular
to play with, and Coppabella turned up the very thing
wanted. Its distance from everywhere was in its favor.
The man with the syndicate prospectus in one hand and
the silver slug in the other could talk of a 40ft. lode, and
the bull could talk of “ another Broken Hill,” and the
tape and the assayer’s pot could not knock out the yarns
in an hour or two. “The distant field looks greenest ”
needs re-writing when it comes to mining ; it is the dis-
tant mine that finds the public greenest. Also it hap-
pened that just when the brokers began to play with
Coppabella, the Broken Hill Proprietary was looking back
over its 20 years of silver-mining- and its seven millions of
dividends ; and the papers were recalling the millions
made by the men who got in first; and so between
one thing and another Coppabella played right into
the gamblers’ hands. A small co. of 3000 shares
of £2 each, 2500 issued, was formed in Melbourne, with
Henry Gore as chairman, and prices jumped in a few
hours from £3 to £l6, then on to £26 ; within almost as
few hours they were back to £7, and now joggle between
that and £5 10s. If H. J. Daly helped to knock them out
with an adverse report, Bewick, Moreing propped them
up with a report by Hertzig, on which the firm bought
either 200 or 500 shares—nobody seems to know for
certain which.
Then the public got the idea that there was
another silver rush to Coppabella. It was reported that
120 leases had been applied for, and that the country was
pegged for miles. That sounded like business. But it
was utterly misleading. Coppabella is on a portion of the
Upper Murray, which, being moderately fertile and—for
Australia—unusually well watered, has” been practically
all made private land. It is not all freehold, certainly' •
but under the N.S.W. Mining on Private Property Act
conditional purchases and conditional leases rank as pri-
vate lands. Now, a man hag only to hold a miner’s right
(which costs 2s. 6d.) to apply for as many permits
to search as he pleases. He simply sends the Warden
an application for, say, 40 acres in such-and-such paddock,
and in turn the Warden gives notice to attend and show
him the land he wants. For the one half-crown he can
apply for an unlimited number of blocks without ever
having seen one of them. This is the speculator’s chance
to get a big “possible” for nothing. He whips in his
application, and waits. Presently comes a prospector
who has been wandering over the country without
authority, and lodges an application for something he has
actually found. If he breathes a word about his find the
speculator who has got in first can point the Warden to
that very block as the one he wants. There is no pegging
out ; and the application does not define the area required,
the presumption being that the man hasn’t yet any right
to go on the land, and doesn’t know what is there. This,
then, is the whole explanation of the crowd of applica-
tions. The alleged rush is a pure myth. In the 30 miles be-
tween the field and Germanton, at the head of the railway,
the writer last week passed only three men, and he would
probably have passed two of them anyway ; and the whole
mining population of the field is well under 60. And this
is what a boom has been built upon !
There is another side to this matter, certainly.
With speculators’ applications in and undealt with, the
bona-fide- prospector may be scared off applying for a show
he knows of. He will wait till the other man has first
indicated his own block. Then he may come in. It is
not certain that anything of the kind is happening, but it
is possible. Anyhow, here is a large hole in the law.
Warden Gibson is the first man who has had to deal with
anything approaching a rush of applications under the
Mining on Private Property Act, and it says much for
him that one hears no complaints at all on the field. He
had the advantage of serving during the Barrier’s lively
days as a Mining Registrar, and his experience then has
come handy now under very different circumstances.
In spite of the 140 applications now in there are
only four blocks which show any ore worth mentioning ;
a few others travel on a slug of galena, or a blotch of lead
in quartz, or a little very low-grade lead stuff, such as
may be found at a thousand places in Australia. The
four that alone are worth any consideration because of the
metal they show are Coppabella Prop., Coppabella Blocks
1 and 2, and Mt. Gifford. Of these the only one that has
made any attempt to see what is under the surface is the
Coppabella Prop. This co. has driven a tunnel along the
lode, about 60ft. into Coppabella hill, which rises sharply
nearly 700 ft. The tunnel hugs the footwall, which is
fairly well defined. The face is now about 40ft. below the
surface of the hill at that point, and the lode there looks
better than anywhere else in the tunnel. But it is not
likely that this improvement will continue. The ore
probably occurs in shoots, dipping into the hill, and the
face is in one of these shoots. One judges so from the
fact that, on the surface, just about this point, some
scratching exposes much cleaner ore than is found either
north or south. From the tunnel, which is the southern-
most point where the vein has been seen, to the furthest
point north where galena has been found in the irregular
outcrop, is 325 ft.—surface measurement. Horizontally
this is about 225 ft. That is the proved length of lode. It
has not been picked up either north (towards the brow of
the hill), or to the south (where, however, it may pos-
sibly be hidden by alluvial). North, over the rocky hill,
there is a large number of outcropping masses, mostly
quartz, some of them carrying occasional splashes of lead.
In one of the creeks there is a good deal of tourmaline
(valueless) ; another outcrop, or “ spew,” showed zinc.
The country is much disturbed and faulted ; prospecting
is difficult, and the persistence of a regular lode unlikely.
Coppabella Prop, ore is a rather fine-grained
galena, running up to 220 z. galena and anything at all
for lead—you could get slugs going 80 per cent. But a
slug isn’t a lode. So far you might hand-pick one ton of
ore out of 10 of lode. The gangue is largely quartz ;if
there were enough of it there should be no difficulty in
concentrating it. Whether it will be worth concentrating
depends mainly upon whether the ore-shoots become
better defined. The fact that what seems to be a fairly
clean shoot runs down from the surface to the present
face (or what was the face a week ago) is encouraging.
What the size of the shoots may be it is impossible to say.
The tunnel has gone along the footwall, and the width of
the vein has not been proved at even one point. But
there is nothing whatever to suggest a great mine. A
medium-grade, concentrating proposition, which would
yield moderate profits with metals at a good price, is the
most that one can reasonably look for. It is quite unlike
the Broken Hill mines—much more like those at Thacka-
ringa (N.S. W.) or at Zeehan (Tas.). The vein is, however,
apparently wider than those at Thackaringa—the first
place, by the way, worked on the Barrier, and now em-
ploying a mere handful of men.
Around the Coppabella Prop, are the South,
Central, Queen, and other blocks. The Coppabella vein
runs about north-east and south-west, and if it went on
like that far enough it would go into both North and
South. But lodes always stop somewhere, and the
Coppabella country is disturbed enough to suggest that
these may stop pretty suddenly. At any rate, they are
not likely to follow a bee-line, even to suit a mining syn-
dicate. Coppabella South has put two scratches in its
alluvial, and found nothing. Coppabella North, which is
in rough country, has done nothing but chip corners off a
few boulders. The chipping has proved nothing more
than the scratching. Coppabella Central is apparently
trusting co the underlay from the Prop. It is a fearfully
remote thing to hang even a syndicate upon.
Two miles east are the Coppabella Blocks, C.
H. Kerry’s flotations, No. 1 held in Sydney, No. 2 in Mel-
bourne. These are in comparatively flat country, and
costeens have exposed a very mixed gossany formation,
carrying some carbonates. It is rather nice-looking stuff,
w'ha't there is of it, but the size of the formation is abso-
lute conjecture. It is certain, too, that some of what has
been regarded as lead carbonates is not that at all, but
possibly pyromorp&te or chlorite. Still, undoubted car-
bonate crystals can be small quantities, yet
enough to make it well worth while prospecting. A
prospecting shaft is to be put down as far as w'ater will
allow; then they will crosscut the lode, or where the
lode, if there is one, ought to be. Till then it is a gamble.
In the rough ranges above the Coppabella
Blocks is the Coppabella Boulder, marked by a pile of
quartz boulders, carrying pyrites, some parched iron-
stone in small vughs, and said to assay 2dwt. in spots.
Nothing at all is visible here to hang a hope on. This
show is held by a Sydney syndicate.
Six miles from the Boulder, on the other side, of
Coppabella, is Mt. Gifford, said to be under option with
an ultimate view' to English flotation. There is a thin
seam of galena on what may be the footwall of a lode.
The most that can be said is that it is worth sinking a
few pounds to test this.
In favor of the field is abundance of timber and
water. Coppabella Creek, a permanent stream, though
reduced to a trickle in the summer, is within about a mile
of the Prop. The Creek has no great fall —about 40ft. in
two miles —and not enough to get the water on to the
mine. Ore would therefore have to be sent to a site about
],! miles away. Surveys may, however, show' that, though
a W'ater supply cannot be got on the mine from Coppabella
Creek, it may be got from some other. All this means
money ; and on present appearances, and anticipating
favorable developments, the Cop. Prop, will have to be
worked cheaply to pay. Distance from market will be
quite suffic’ent handicap. Road cartage from the mine
to the head of the raihvay is not likely to fall under 255.
per ton ; and the head of the railway (Germanton)
is 378 miles to Sydney and 238 to Melbourne ; but latter
journey calls for transhipment. For comparison, from
Broken Hill to Port Pirie is 280 miles without tranship-
ment, and with no road carriage.
Present Coppabella Prop. co. has very little
money—only about £lOOO. There are, however, 500 re-
served shares, under option to Goodall, of Melbourne
Exchange. Shortage of funds, no doubt, accounts for the
way the show is being worked. The tunnel along the lode
i* doing very little to test the property. The few pounds
the co. has is being spent in window-dressing the mine,
with a view of getting in more money. The one
permanent work in hand is a main shaft, W’ell up from
the tunnel, but this has only just been begun.
# * * •
Broken Hill South and B.H. Prop, are running
almost neek-and-neck in the matter of profit per ton of
ore ; B. H. Prop, showed 9s. lid. for past half-year, South
9s. lOjd. South, however, charged nearly £5OOO spent on
new main shaft to capital account, while B.H. Prop, paid
for all such works out of revenue. A while ago there was
very keen demand for Barrier lead concentrates, and co.’s
were able to make such good terms that it paid better for
the moment to export than to smelt in Australia. Things
have changed now. Compared with first half of 1904,
South should have made about £25,000 increased profit
in past six months, taking the average prices of metals as
a basis ; as a matter of fact, it was only just half that
much to the good. The Australian mining co. that has
to depend on the foreigner for a market for its raw pro-
duct puts itself in a tiger’s mouth. It may be the most
benevolent tiger that ever wore a stripe ; but it will get
hungry some day.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop., in the past year, has some-
how improved the value of its ore 2s. 3d. per ton ; either
the ore is that much richer or the extraction is that much
better, or there is a bit of both. Against that there is an
increase in costs of about 7d. per ton, leaving a net gain
of about Is. Bd. per ton—the results of 12 months’ experi-
menting and additions to plant, and possibly (though im-
probably) slightly improved grade of ore. On a 300,000
ton per half-year output, that is worth £227500. Apart
from the improvement in the metal markets, that is the
half-yearly worth of 12 months’ progress, though most of
that progress was made in the first half. In the second
half, gains in extraction were about counterbalanced by
heavier costs.
* * * *
Broken Hill, which went nap on Junction
North, and dropped a pot of money, is getting rid of
the idea that the property is being worked in such a way
as to squeeze out local people. They are making up their
minds now that what is really amiss is the milling plant,
and that it couldn’t do better work if it tried. Co. is
making a small profit, but it is doing it in spite of the
poorest plant on the line—a plant utterly unworthy of
the ore developments and prospects.
* * •* *
Wyalong (N.S.W.) is beginning to bump hard
against the sulphide trouble. At the chief properties the
oxidised zone is practically worked out, and, though the
sulphides are rich in places, the cost of sinking in the hard
country, added to influx of Water, means a big outlay.
Pew of the properties have any cash reserves ; none of
them are in the hands of registered co.’s—a striking fact,
considering the quantity of gold (about 250,000 oz.) the
field has sent out in 10 years. It is certain, however, that
the scrip system will come soon. So far as the field
knows, one man, E. E. Tyler, is owner of the True Blue,
which employs 100 men and is about the best thing on
Wyalong. J. Channon is principal owner of the Junction.
Both of these men own other properties, which, so far,
have simply cost them money ; and it’s the same with
most other owners. The chances are, therefore, that
they couldn’t face any very serious struggle in their main
properties—out of profits put by, anyway.
**- * *
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, continues to open up
well at 1900 ft. Up to now 180 ft. have been driven north,
and last 901 t. averages 30dwt. for 10ft. wide ; lode ranges
from 7to 12ft., and from 17 to 47dwt. This is the best
development Boulder has had since No. 12 level. Hamilton
shaft, at extreme north end of property, is now equipped,
and sinking has been resumed. Prospecting at 800 and
1000 ft. from this shaft has proved a ghastly failure, and
it is unlikely that any more will be done till 1200 ft. is
reached. A drill bore" cut ore, said to be 10ft. wide and
worth 25dwt., 280 ft. north of Ivanhoe boundary, and
Hamilton shaft was sunk to work this. If real work
endorses this find, value of property will be vastly
increased, as this shaft is situated about 1600 ft. north of
main shaft and will practically open up a new mine.
« * * *
Great Ophir, Davyhurst (W.A.), originally in
60,000 shares of a nominal 10s. each, has been converted
into 300,000 shares of ss. each —170,000 paids and 130,000
-contribs. Old shareholders are entitled, on application,
to 120,000 paids gratis. One paid is also offered to every
subscriber of two cons., up to 100,000, payable Is. on appli-
cation and Is. on allotment. The remaining 30,000 cons,
will be held in reserve. Scheme deserves the fate it is
likely to get from the public. It is ridiculous capitalising
in 300,000 shares a mine which has so far proved itself a
near relation of a wild-cat, which has no ore opened up,
and which has a plant that has only proved itself a failure.
Co.’s controllers have, however, purchased defunct Lady
Loch’s battery and surface equipment for a song.
* * -k m
Recently Westralia Mt. Morgans directors com-
missioned Nicholson, manager of Ivanhoe, to report on
mine, and propound a policy. Nicholson reported that
there were only 34,800 tons of B’sdwt. ore in sight, and
advised closing down half the mill, and raising fresh capi-
tal to push on developments and thoroughly open up the
mine. But A. E. Morgans vetoes this sane policy. He
argues that ore is so patchy it is practically useless trying
to select it, and the only way to work the* mine is to put
everything through and trust' to chance; also that
shutting down half the mill would materially raise costs.
As Morgans prevails, his policy will be pursued, but with
disastrous results. Sons of Gwalia was run to a standstill
by pursuing a like policy, and revived on an army of
samplers being- installed to sample every face worked.
* ¥ * *
Northern Blocks Syndicate (W.A.) has exer-
cised option on Great Leviathan, Southern Cross. Price
paid was £BOOO, in addition to £l2OO spent on develop-
ments during option. Mine is on a small scale, so far as
proved, but manager Roberts estimates that profits in
sight will recoup all outlay, including original cost, and
there is a chanpe beyond that. Ten head of stamps are to
be transferred from the Associated, and should be run-
ning by end of year. Worse feature is that there are
700,000 shares; Associated Northern CoV holds one-half.
Ivanhoe South Extended, Kalgoorlie, of which
very little has been heard lately, has nearly completed its
new surface equipment, and will resume sinking shortly.
Main shaft is down 1300 ft., and has to go another 500 or
600 ft. to get within reach of the lode cut by drill some
time ago. As drills have a bad habit of deflecting at all
sorts of angles, it is doubtful whether the lode is not in
Ivanhoe ground.
• * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) seems to have very little
hope on its eastern side, as the shoots in the Kalgurli are
all short and cut off well inside Kalgurli boundary 7 . A
crosscut is in progress at 1000 ft. to try and get the con-
tinuation of the Hainault lodes on the west. Some time
ago a lode 4ft. wide and worth Bdwt. was located by boring
238 ft. west of the shaft, and this should be reached before
long. This is the concern’s forlorn hope. Co. is still
treating slimes, but they- are nearly 7 done.
* * * *
Queen Margaret, Bulong (W. A.), is still a good
sort of property to leave alone. During past six months
it has been worked at a loss of £728, and since half-year
closed things have been going worse, as ore is down to
2dwt. Many 7 of the levels have caved-in for want of tim-
ber, and outlook is utterly hopeless. Co.’s South Gipps-
land leases also worked at a loss, which was turned into a
profit by treating old tailings. The profit on tailings
panned out at £ll6O ; this; was reduced to £1142 by slight
loss in mining and treating ore. As the grade of ore has
fallen from 23 to 14dwt., and most of the stopes are look-
ing poor, outlook is anything but rosy 7 .
■* * * *
Brown Hill Extended, Kalgoorlie, is making
splendid progress with its new main shaft, from which the
east reef is to be worked. This shaft was only started in
June, and is already down over 250 ft. It is to be
taken down to 700 or 800 ft. before any opening out on
the reef is done. A test parcel from this reef, of 224
tons, averaged 18dwt., and the ore was broken for a length
of 174 ft. and a width of 3ft. It looks like a mine.
■X * * *
St. Arnaud (Vic.), once an active mining centre,
but for many years practically defunct, with the excep-
tion of that one good mine, the Lord Nelson, is showing
increasing signs of a Rip Van Winkle awakening-. Lady 7
Nelson, though financially weak so far, is looking up a
little, the 1170 loads of stone crushed so far yielding
6050 z. silver-gold bullion, and 10 head of stamps are going
continuously, with another 10 head to be installed shortly.
Wilfley table concentrates sold have realised £207, and at
least twelve months’ stone is estimated to be in sight.
Work has been resumed on the Lord Nelson North,
adjoining the Lord Nelson, and after installing a new
winding plant, it is proposed to sink the shaft several
hundred feet deeper and crosscut for the Shoot now being
worked in the Lord Nelson, which shoot is generally held
to be dipping right into the North ground. Besides
these, the Lady Nelson Extended has commenced opera-
tions at repairing a good three-chamber shaft on Walker’s
lease, preparatory to driving towards what was in former
years one of the richest bits of ground, down to the
water-level, in St. Arnaud. The flotation of the Lord
Nelson Extended is also announced. The local populace
are beginning to scorn lethargic utterances anent fat pigs
and pumpkins, and are learning to talk “ scrip,” “ clean-
ups,” etc., with surprising energy.
* * * *
_T. J. Greenway leaves Chillagoe, and Paul C.
Kunze, lately managing the Zeehan smelters, and before
that of the Australian (German) Metal Co., takes charge.
Greenway’s optimism has been oozing out for a long
while, and the ghastly failure of the last reconstruction
scheme about tapped all that was left of it. And, any-
way, whatever may happen afterwards, Chillagoe co. will
have no use for an expensive manager for some time to
come.
* * * *
Chillagoe smelters depend considerably on Mun-
gana ore ; a return from 1761 tons of the latter gave 185
tons lead and 18,9250 z. silver (102 oz. per ton of ore).
Mungana has about 11,000 tons in the roasting heaps and
otherwise stacked around the mine ; but aforesaid return
was from easily-treated silicious ore, obtained at shallow
levels ; so it is no guide to contents of heaps. Chillagoe
is to remodel its lead furnaces on lines adopted by B.H.
Prop, and the Zeehan works. Co. seems to have missed
its best chance (assuming it had it) by not acquiring the
O.K. A co. that lias railway and works, and abundance
of fluxing material and not too much ore, should keep its
eyes open for new mines. But Chillagoe is too dazed to
see anything very clearly.
» # • *
Kelly’s Queen, Towers, has made a discovery.
For months co. has been working a formation, in hopes of
locating the Phoebe reef, and, in despair, a survey was
ordered. Stated now that the Phoebe reef is 30ft. lower
down. The two formations were not similar at any
time. Phoebe’s is kindly, while that in Kelly’s looks as
cruel as the management’s action in spending two 3d.
calls 30ft. up in the hanging-wall country before a survey
was made.


fsd
THE MAN IN THE STREET
like Macaulay’s schoolboy, is nowadays credited
with knowing a great deal, but it is certain
that, having to be on his feet all day, he
KNOWS A GOOD BOOT
He wants one that will stand the wear and tear
of everyday life—one that will keep out, not
only water, but that dampness that is so readily
absorbed by a cheap, badly-made boot.
THE ORIENT BOOT
Stands all tests. From 16/6 to 28/6 per pair,
in round or narrow toss. Tan, from 18/6.
SENT POST FREE throughout the Common-
wealth. .
David Jones and Co.
SYDNEY .
fs
IN WITH THE SPRING!
READY FOR A GOOD SPLASH
IN PHOTOGRAPHY.
HARRINGTON’S
NEW ILLUSTRATED ....
CATALOGUE
Customers may have a Copy Free for the asking, or
posted to any address in Australasia for Three
Penny Stamps.
DON'T BUY A CAMERA UNTIL
you have perused this most comprehensive Catalogue.
Every article Illustrated, Described, and Priced.
POPULAR CAMERAS FOR THE PRESENT SEASON.
Harrington’s 30/- Victor, & Harrington’s 21/- Windsor.
Size of Photo., 4jx3jin.; carries 12 Plates in Magazine.
386 GEORGE ST,
Near
G.P.O.
SYDNEY,
AND 93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
*■*■»■*■
“Den”: Housewives in S.A. are being
scared out of their wits by apparitions of glowing
chops and fiery beefsteaks that shine in the
kitchen what time the marauding cockroach
seeketh his prey. The brief slavey at our house
came screaming from the kitchen the other night,
vowing that the beef-bone for the morrow’s hash
was glowing with a supernatural radiance. I
investigated, and true enough the dinner’s
remnant was decorated with a distinct halo. The
butcher was consulted, but he offered no explana-
tion. Quite fresh, he said, and no real harm in the
illumination. “Ought to see his shop o’ night time.
It was like the fireworks for the Dook.” A
medical friend puts forward the theory that the
lavish use of super-phosphates on grazing land is
responsible. The phosphorus, he opines, becomes
precipitated in the herbage, is assimilated by the
down-trodden sheep and low-spirited bullock,
and manifests itself when these animals become
mutton and beef respectively. But our slavey
suspects the Evil One, and recommends a priest.
• * * *
Melbourne City Health Officer (Dr. Jamie-
son), in a lecture on consumption before the Vic.
Health Society, said that in 15 years the annual
deaths within the city boundaries had decreased
by 380. “ The improved sanitary conditions
brought about by the sewerage system are respon-
sible for a great part of the improvement,” com-
mented the doctor, “but we must not overlook
the Legislature which has done such excellent
work in securing improved conditions of labor
under the various Shops and Factories Acts.”
These are the same Acts, be it remembered, which
all Victorian Toryism united to block. Improved
conditions mean expenditure, and human beings
are the only commodities in the world which, in
the Tory theory, cost nothing and are not missed
when they are dead.
* * * *
Photos, of the office-bearers of Ladies’
Friendly Societies, published in Melbourne
Paunch, seem calculated to deter woman from
becoming friendly.
“ J.H. ” : What’s the moral obli-
gation of a man who matri-
monially engages himself 1
Know of one who, in a weak
moment, imagined he had
met his fate in the shape /
of a girl blessed with
everything but brains.
Three weeks afterwards
he found that a pretty
face, which only
opened to eat or drink
or say “How nice ! ”
wasasgood company
as an oleograph.
Just on the point
of escaping his
martyrdom, her
father collapsed
financially, and, to
avoid the long pale
finger of scorn, he
carried out his con-
tract. Know of
another in a similar
difficulty, who is
trying the waiting
game. He has been
engaged for nine
years, and hopes
to wear out the
chain by long wait-
ing. The lady
wears a hungry
look, fit to melt a
Sphinx, but, all the
same, she hangs on
hard.
Up-country in S.
Australia funerals are
made the most of in the
way of excitement. The
death of anybody higher up
in the social scale than a road
laborer is eagerly awaited, and
as soon as the doctor gives his
certificate the undertaker and the
local brass bands and the lodges of
various sorts get ready ; the town’s
vehicles are furbished up, and the citizens’ rusty
black clothes are inked once more. Everybody
turns out to the show, and the procession is
stopped once or twice to be photographed. A
funeral in S. Australia is such a jolly affair as to
suggest that the folk are assembled to congratulate
the corpse on its deadness.
* * * *
For out-and-out meanness the recent
attempt of the Vic. Co-operative Brewery to sweat
Australian poster artists seemed hard to beat;
but it has been beaten, all the same. Last week
advts. appeared in the Melb. dailies offering a
prize of 10s. for designs for illustrated post-cards
—“ all card-designs to become the property of the
advertisers, and all applications to be accompanied
by three penny stamps !" At first sight, the thing
looked like a swindle engineered by some ingeni-
ous spieler who would keep the stamps and drop
the designs into the river; but at the bottom of
the advt., instead of the expected “ Box ZOOl,
G.P.0.”, appeared the name of the Victorian
Ladies’ Work Association, probably the most
stylish charitable institution in the State, with
Janet Mrs. Clarke at its head, and a membership
roll consisting wholly of National Leaguers.
* * * ft
“ O’Fipp ” : A circulating-library nymph
recently advised me to read ‘ ‘ the latest ” —the auto-
biography of one whom she called “ the celebrated
Colonel Anstruther Thomson.” After struggling
through the two bulky volumes, I am still wonder-
ing what he could have been celebrated for, unless
it was for living eiglity-odd years without any-
thing happening to him. He once saw King Ned,
and the record of the interview is the most exciting
thing in the book. Here it is :
Charlie ran up to me and said, “ The King wants to
speak to you.” I advanced, and there was a stone gutter
just in front of me. The King looked down at it and
said, “ Take care.” He then shook hands and said, “Do
you still go out hunting?” “ Yes, your Majesty.” I
then had a good look at him. I said, “lam so glad to see
your Majesty looking so well.” He smiled, and said,
“Thank you, thank you!” He then talked about the
parade, &c., and bowed. I saluted, and our interview
ended.
Worst of it is that every dull person who looks
at a king seems to think it necessary to announce
the fact in two or three volumes of stodge, which
help to hide the really interesting books !
* * « *
A half-caste aboriginal boy was recently
admitted into the Palmerston (N.T.) Hospital.
Dr. Eulton pronounced it a case of leprosy. There
is no leper settlement in the Territory. The case
was brought before the Board of Health, and after a
long sitting, it was decided to place the youngster
on an island off the coast. At low water he can
walk across to the mainland. A Chow has been
placed in charge. This leper had been living with
a missionary from childhood, and it was not until
one of his fingers dropped off that he was sent to
the hospital. He was cook and general factotum.
Many lepers are known to be at large in the Chow
and blacks’ camps, but no action is taken. In fact,
some thought this boy should be set at liberty
amongst his tribe; others thought smothering a
more suitable mode of deliverance; others again
blame the medico for saying anything about the
affair.
THE VOICE OF SOBER COUNCIL.
COLD VOICE (from the bed): “If you really want
to take that shirt off, hadn't you better undo
the collar first."
i?e the art-union revelations, it transpires
that at least one branch of the Australian (Vic.)
Women’s Association is in the habit of raising the
wind by means of raffles for gold watches and
things.
PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE.
The woman, when caught with the property in her
possession, threatened to give complainant in charge for
insulting a lady. —Extract from South Melbourne Police
Court report.
HEAVY SWELL : “ Madame, you're an infernal
thief!"
LADY PICKPOCKET (caught in the act): “ How
dare you address me, sir? We have never
teen introduced."
A letter concerning Art in Sydney :
In Sydney, Art is represented by a society which grew
out of the amalgamation of two rival institutions.
The consolidated concern called itself “ Royal,” and then
almost immediately fell under the curse that overtakes
things Australian when they start to flaunt the brand of
the head station. In this country, when anything sud-
denly declares that it is “ Royal,” or makes a great cry
about its devotion to the throne or the empire, the wise
recognise that something has happened. And now a faint
odor of decayed crayfish is making itself apparent on the
premises of the “ Royal Art Society of N.S. W.” First and
foremost, the Society seems to be a sweater ; according to
its balance-sheet, its paid instructor received for his past
year’s services the munificent sum of £92 6s. lOd. It paid
its instructor less than it paid for catering and music
at its entertainments, which ran up to £ll3, and
a society for the encouragement of art, which pays more
for afternoon tea and piano-thumping than it does for
teaching- drawing and painting, is a joke when its
vagaries are perpetrated with its own money, but when
it plays these tricks with the State’s money it ought to be
brought up with a sudden jerk.
The present exhibition is the worst for many years,
and the reason is not hard to And. For some few exhibi-
tions there has been a suspicion that somewhere in the
Council was an inside ring, and the treatment meted out
to the work of pupils who received instruction from
artists other than those in the ring, has told intending
pupils plainly that if you want to get your pictures
exhibited, and your work stamped with the only
hall-mark the Sydney artist can win, it is best
to go to certain teachers, and to them only.
One artist who had successfully attracted the pupils of
several of the Council to his studio, found only one
picture accepted of all that his students had sent in.
Among those students were workers who, while they were
under the tuition of members of the Council, had pictures
hung. It seems strange that only the members of the
inside ring in the Council of the Royal Art Society can
teach properly, and more strange still that to change the
teacher is to lose all the cunning these exquisite teachers
had previously imparted. Look round the exhibition, and
you can count the pictures by the students of men not on
the Council on the finger-tips. And N.S. W. subsidises the
Art Society to the extent of £4OO per annum.
The Art Society holds an annual exhibition, and to have
pictures accepted for that exhibition is the hall-mark of
artistic success in N.S.W. To the lay mind the idea of
allowing men who exhibit pictures of their own, and
whose students are exhibiting, to sit in judgment on the
work of their rivals and the students of their rivals, is
abhorrent. What is wanted is a National School of Art,
run by the State.
* * * *
Will some member introduce a short Bill
into the N.S.W. Assembly providing that, when
it becomes necessary to resume a street or a
locality because the private landlord has allowed
it to become too foul, dilapidated, and unhealthy
to be any longer tolerated, that landlord, instead
of being paid the usual 10 per cent, above the
value of his property for compulsory resumption,
should be paid 20 per cent, below it for being a
public nuisance ? In the case of the Wexford-
street (Sydney) resumptions, the private landlord
will receive nearly £6OOO above the value of his
property as a reward for being dirty, and dirt
doesn’t deserve such recompense.
A Federal public
servant has given Vic-
Premier Bent the bene,
fit of a bright idea.
He says, “Put a tur-
bine at the outlet of
the Yan Yean reser-
voir to generate electri-
city as a motive power
for your new railway,
and erect water wheels
along the stream, and
you will have enough
power to work the rail-
way and light all the
public offices in Mel-
bourne as well, at a
nominal cost.” Though
a trifle sanguine this
genius seems to be on
the right track. Engi-
neer Tbwaites’ scheme
for damming the Yarra
above Heidelberg would
easily supply enough power
to electrically drive all the
suburban railways and light the
city as well, and it has the ad-
vantages of being cleaner and of
consuming nothing. The water
will run away just as at present,
but the millions of horse-power
now drifting to waste will be
utilised. Why men should
rush to dig in the bowels of
the earth for dirty, grimy
coal to generate motive
power, when a cleaner,
cheaper and equally effica-
cious force, with fish in it
and wattle bloom alongside
it, lies at their doors,
passes comprehension.
A cheap-marriage
parson gave evidence in
the Prahran (Vic.) court,
the other day, that he
sometimes married as
many as 300 couples in
three months. No wonder that three and five
guinea men find their registers so thin.
* * * *
“E.” from Melbourne :
Saw Tallbottle’s procession pass. First, a man on a
horse, waving the grand old flag to no one in particular
in a general kind of way, as though he were just doing it
for money j then a dray full of Tallbottles that nobody
paid any heed to; finally Maria Black to complete the
picture of winter woe. Keeping up somebody elses
dignity is a rotten game ; and why should we pay any
body to smoke our cigars, and drink our wine, and drive
round getting in the way of our Black Maria when we
could do it better ourselves V
OUR GREAT FUTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In opening a Sydney exhibition of by-products and of
cattle and sheep, Mr. G. H. Reid said we had a great
country, and should see that it was properly advertised.
He thought there was a great future for Australia, in
spite of its politics and statesmen. “ Nothing,” he added,
“ can prevent Australia from becoming one of the great
powers of the world and the scene of unexampled pros-
perity and happiness.” Continuing, he said that if we
could only get rid of the prejudice against immigration
we would get rid of the greatest stumbling block the
country had in its fight for prosperity. —Daily paper.
Lament no more, O worried few
Who view your country’s state with sorrow :
Just think what Mister Reid may do
To-morrow —or some day’s to-morrow !
True, now he can’t find time to act,
But while his pretty speeches please us
What need to let the ugly fact
That industries are fading, tease us ?
O, cast away all carking cares
That so reduce the fatty tissues,
And leav.e it to your grandson’s heirs
To raise such things as fiscal issues.
Think not how near disaster seems,
With grief anticipating lean times,
But rest in pleasing lotos dreams,
And gaily talk like this between times :
‘ Great country... splendid future... great!
Magnificent... great... fine... great nation ;
Great natural resources. Wait—
Entrancing prospect... immigration.
“ Great destiny of this great land ;
Great principle... great... prospects rising ;
Give colored brothers welcoming hand ;
Great empire... we need advertising.
“ Great evil of town industries ;
Go on the land 1... Freetrade’s perfection ;
Great imports... Each great mind agrees...
Great fallacy found in Protection.
“ Great brains of this great audience ;
Great truths in this great peroration ;
Great gratitude—indeed, immense ;
Give three great cheers... great King... great nation! ’’
If such a wordy web you weave
'Twill cure all ills —although it’s rum how ;
And as you doze you may believe
Things now are sure to go right—somehow !
VIC.
O’FIPP.


BOOKKEEPING
Taught by Post. We
have the HIGHEST
SUCCESSES in Accoun-
tants’ Examinations.
Intending Candidates thoroughly prepared in all
subjects. “ Home Study ” post free.
Stott & Hoare’s Business College
MOORE STREET, next Citizens’ Life Building. [1
When Influenza stalks the land,
La Grippe or broncial trouble ;
Or croupy cough are going round
Our misery to double.
Would you, from every cough and cold,
Keep you and yours secure ?
There’s one, and only one, advice —
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
JRMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
kiktg street,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date In the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
df
CORRECT CLOTHES
FOR 6EHTLEMEN.
These are times when all men that value good appearance
should dress well and correctly.
My Expgrigpce is at Yo(ir Disposal.
sdf
My New handsome Spring Suit
to Order is THREE GUINEAS.
Patterns, Fashion Plates, Self-Measurement Forms SENT FREE.
. C. HA6ON,
fIERCHANT
TAILOR, . ..
129 King Street, SYDNEY.
“ Lamore ” : Great is the faith of mankind
in the printed word. A Melbourne news-
paper-man has just related to me the tale
of William Stubbs, sometime A.B. on the
Royal Arthur. The pressman first met
William in the casualty room of the Mel-
bourne Hospital, where William —who
was royally drunk—was having stitches
put in a cut in the head, the result of
hostile movements conducted in Little
Lonsdale-street. William delivered utter
ances which made him worth a para-
graph, and my friend wrote it. Then—
partly because he thought it might help
William’s explanations to his officers,
and partly because it was such an in-
apposite, incongruous lie—he ended up
his par. with the grave statement:
“Stubbs was given by his companions
a high reputation for steadiness and
sobriety.” Two months later, he met
William again, this time in the
watchhouse, clinging to the counter.
He could not let go without falling,
but he appealed pathetically to the
bobby to search his (William’s) pockets,
and find there a proof that he could not
possibly be drunk. “ It’s in the paper,”
he said. The policeman searched,
and found a cutting from the Agegus
containing the par. written at the
hospital. It put so convincing a halo
of virtue round William’s head that
the lockup-keeper promised to allow
him to sleep off his excessive sobriety
and then depart in peace. The police-
man also had a reverence for the
printed word.
Thus “ Two Seas,” from a N.S.W. country
town :
Apropos of that Melbourne art union swindle, worked
with a trick ballot-box. I used to gamble for drinks with
a Crown lands agent per medium of his land ballot-box—
highest marble to win. His phenomenal luck at length
prompted me to devote some study to the mechanism of
the box. One of the results was that, the next time the
marbles were shaken up, I snatched first turn of the
cylinder. I won. It was a very simple trick, too. The
bottom of the box sloped on all sides to a hole in the
centre. The cylinder turned in a sheath under that hole,
and had two cavities bored in it—the size of the marbles.
The agent turned the cylinder until one of the holes was
in line with the hole in the bottom of the ballot-box. The
other cavity in the cylinder would then be flush with the
hole through which the winning marble is dropped into
the tray, so that the agent could, without looking, feel,
while holding the box, when the cylinder was in the right
position for his purpose. He then dropped the winning
marble into the box. It rolled into the hole, and a slight
turn of the cylinder held it fast, ready for dropping into
the tray. The other marbles were afterwards dropped
in, but, turn and shake as much as one wished, nothing
could stop the agent’s marble being first out. Sometimes
he had the highest marble ready set in the cylinder,
sometimes the lowest. In the latter case the victim
could have first turn at the cylinder.
Since that experience I have always looked suspiciously
at the lucky man in a land-ballot, although, of course, no
one could doubt the honesty of any routine connected
with our Lands Administration. Still, the ballot-box
ought to look honest, so that the public would feel at
least as much confidence in it as one feels when “ the
monkey draws the marble ” on a bush racecourse.
* * * *
The Mayor of North Sydney recently
called together the other mayors north of the
harbor to point out the iniquity of the Greater
Sydney scheme—which would wipeout the Mayor
of North Sydney and make the Mayor of Sydney
the one municipal potentate of the whole metro-
politan area. In preference the Mayor of North
Sydney proposed a Greater North Sydney scheme,
which wouldn’t wipe out the Mayor of North
Sydney, but would rather make him the
great municipal potentate of all the northern
suburbs. But the Mayor of Lane Cove and the
Mayor of Manly objected just as much to being
wiped out for the glorification of the Mayor of
North Sydney as for that of the Mayor of Sydney,
and the Mayor of Mosman agreed with them, so
a great quantity of dissatisfied Mayors dispersed,
having done nothing. And until Parliament
passes an Act referring the Greater Sydney ques-
tion to the people, and utterly ignoring the
Mayor of Greater Lane Cove, and the Mayor of
Greater Manly, and the other 38 Mayors, nothing
will be done—nothing, that is, that 39 out of the 40
Mayors, the 39 who would be abolished to make
room for a Greater Sydney—can prevent.
VISIONS, AFTER A SEVERE COURSE OF PENNY NOVELETTES.
About the choicest humor of recent times
is found in newspaper criticisms of the first instal-
ment of pictures and statuary obtained by director
Bernard Hall for Melbourne National Gallery,
under the terms of the Felton bequest. The
Argus, enamored of the good old days when
£1700 used to be given for one such picture as
John Rogers Herbert’s “Moses Bringing Down
the Tables of tbe Law ” (which would probably
bring about 30s. at auction), and when that horrid
pub. transparency, Herkomer’s Queen Victoria,
was bought at a fabulous figure, pooh-poohs the
new pictures. After splashing the color work
with all the damnatory terms it can find in
“ Everybody’s Rapid Guide to Art,” the Argus
comes to the black-and-white, which it regards as
“ impossible to treat quite seriously,” although it
is somewhat taken with Fred Pegram’s “ clever
Grosspatching.” (Crosspatching ! Who can take
the Argus’ art seriously after that ?) The works
that are almost beneath the notice of this
authority include four of Vierge’s famous illustra-
tions to “Pablo de Segovia,” two remarkable
drawings by Edmund Sullivan, drawings by
Charles Keene, Pegram, and Towmsend, and one
of the celebrated wood-engravings after Frederick
Sandys.
-** •**
A pathetic superfluity of Girl in some parts
of Victoria is revealed by a policeman’s letters in
a breach-of-promise case. From Ballarat he wrote
to his Dear Beattie that the soft sex appeared to
be six times more numerous than the hard sex.
Later on, when lie was shifted to Clunes, he com-
placently remarked that he found “ eight girls to
every man,” consequently they were “rushing”
him, but he was “not taking any just then.”
Reverence for Woman is a difficult doctrine for
Man—especially a policeman—to live up to in a
district where he has all the charm of comparative
rarity. The modest, reticent spinster, who makes
sweetness and light in the world, and fills it with
a fine poetical sentiment, is but a creature of
favorable circumstances after all. When the
circumstances are unfavorable she drops her
maidenly reserve, and makes a bee-line for any
marriageable bloke who will accept her adoration
on sufferance.
About a curious case:—•
Malcolm’s Folly is a well-known building on one of the
most picturesque points of Sydney harbor. It achieved its
name from the fact that the owner and builder, John
Malcolm, 60 years ago abandoned the orthodox style of
architecture and put his kitchen on top of the house.
“ Folly ” would appear to run in the family of Malcolm,
as shown by an extraordinary case just heard in Equity.
The publication of the evidence was prohibited during the
hearing, but the pleadings and judgment disclose the
facts.
Two sisters named Farrell, residents of Manly, married
two brothers Malcolm, who, with another brother
Malcolm and a sister Malcolm, all inherited largely
under the father’s will. The brothers who married the
Farrells were hard drinkers, and died early, leaving
their wives’ a life-interest in the property with re-
mainder to their children. Failing children, the other
brother and the sister would inherit. One widow was
childless ; the other had two children. For 14 years the
mother drew maintenance and education money for the
offspring. Then the brother and sister set up a case that
the children were in a sense bogus, and had been “pur-
chased ” or “ adopted.” It was alleged that Mrs. Malcolm
had been seen at a sports meeting at Goulburn three days
after the alleged birth of the first child, and some few
days after was at a race meeting- in the same town. With
regard to the second child, a lady declared that she went
out to a certain place at the Glebe with Mrs. Malcolm,
and there obtained a child from a woman, who after-
wards, she alleged, claimed it as her own. The defence
was, of course, a general denial. A crowd of witnesses
were examined, including Mrs. Malcolm, but the Judge
said that the plaintiffs had not proved their case, and dis-
missed the suit.
This legal racket probably cost a good deal more than
the original Malcolm spent in building his kitchen on the
roof.
* * * *
One of Sydney’s historic corners changed
hands, recently, at a price not disclosed, Henry
Moses, M.L.C., being the purchaser. The corner
is that north-west of King and Pitt streets, known
years ago as Punch’s Hotel. In its early days, the
corner house was called the Bunch of Grapes, and
was kept by Michael Napthali, who afterwards
kept the Ropemakers’ Arms, in Cleveland-street.
In the very early ’4o’s and until 1867, the house
was kept by Alfred Toogood. Then Punch and
M‘Grath, the well-known oarsmen, took it. Jim
Punch subsequently had it on his own, MGrath
removing to the City Wine Vaults, George-street.
When Jim Punch died, Francis, who acted as
coxswain to Punch and MGrath, got it, and he
sold to the Federal Bank. Since then, its fortunes
have varied. In the very early ’4o’s (’4l, writer
thinks), a vacamt allotment on the north was sold
at £IOO a foot, then considered a fabulous price.
While stout persons are talking about
immigration and making irrelevant references to
the Six Hatters several times daily, there is a sum
of £IOOO going begging in Melbourne as the
nucleus of a fund for a foundling hospital, which
would add to the population by preserving locally-
produced citizens. The money was left by old
Charley Wright, famous as the proprietor of the
Coliseum, familiar to speedy Melbourne of the
early days. _ Although Wright has been dead some
yearS, nothing has been done to carry out his
wishes. His solicitor is now writing pathetic
letters to the papers, pointing out that he is will-
ing to hand over the cash to the Treasurer, but
hinting that, unless Bent does something himself,
the £IOOO will' go a very little way towards main-
taining the State’s lost infant.
* * * *
Wexford-street, in the slum area about to
be resumed by Sydney Corporation, was known
50 years ago as Market-lane, and was then occu-
pied by respectable trades-people. That was
before the Chinese invasion. Exeter-place, off
Wexford-street, now a dangerous haunt, where
the stranger is struck with a bottle at night, had
then some fine houses, and an almost aristocratic
flavor.
J* * * *
udge Eagleson’s remittal of the
sentence of a young woman—convicted of receiving
a five-guinea fur jacket—on condition that she
married the young man, recalls a somewhat simi-
lar case in a N.S.W. mining town not long ago.
A man was charged, before the P.M., with having
stolen verandah chairs and other useful household
articles. He had been caught in the act, and a
search of his house disclosed many other verandah
chairs and a catalogue of sundries. A parson at-
tended to give the man a “character,” and men-
tioned that he had a wife and several small
children dependent upon him (presumably for
verandah chairs). Here the prosecuting constable
interposed that the woman was not prisoner’s wife,
and the numerous children, whom he seemed so
anxious to provide with seating accommodation,
were not his children. The magistrate pondered
for some time, and eventually hit upon the
brilliant scheme of adjourning the case for a fort-
night “ to give prisoner an opportunity to marry
the woman.” Which he did. Then the law for-
gave him all the chairs.
• • • •
Melbourne is in trouble over its attempts
to raise money for charity. First there was tho
St. Vincent’s Hospital lottery exposure. Then
came the police charity carnival business. A sec-
tion of the committee that ran the carnival has
mutinied, and declares that the thing was fixed
up by a few police and military officers, who spent
much carnival money in expenses without reference
to the general committee. Thecarnival raised £I4CO
-for the charities, and it cost £579 to collect the
£I4OO. The big Patriotic Fund carnival, also run
by the police, made a clear profit of £2002, and the
total expenses were only £115; but a different
crowd ran it. The Charity Carnival committee,
or the ruling section of it, is said to have voted
itself £lO from the funds and struck gold
medals to adorn its tummy as a memento of its
valuable work in the cause of humanity. A lot of
other things are alleged, and O’Callaghan, Chief
Commissioner of Police, has been asked to inquire
into the affair with all his might. After all, it
would be cheaper in the end for the State to run
the hospitals. The State has its drawbacks, but
it doesn’t spend £579 to collect £I4OO, and it
doesn’t hang gold medals on its tummy.
* * * *
August 29 was a record day in the matter
of frozenness for South Australia, and was marked
by the largest fal-l of snow ever experienced in the
Mount Lofty hills. Hitherto snow has been a
giddy novelty to the Adelaide folk, and the
apology for a fall which has been experienced
about once in a decade has sent dozens of citizens
rushing wildly into the hills that they might be
able to boast of having been in asnowstorm. Recent
fall covered the hills for many miles, and in places
to the depth of a foot, and is likely to furnish
conversation in Adelaide for months.
* a * *
An art-critic writes :
There are valuable bits in a historiette on the beginnings
of Victorian art, prefixed by W. Moore to the catalogue
of the local Artists’ Show. The first Art Exhibition was
held in the first Exhibition Building, now the site of tho
mint. The Victorian Society of Fine Arts was formed in
1856, James Smith being a member. He was the first to
suggest the formation of the National Gallery. The
society included such artists as Von Guerard, Chevalier,
Gilfillan, and Strutt, with Summers the sculptor. After
holding two or three good shows, with small attendances,
the society died. The National Gallery began in 1862,
with a £IOOO grant. The Schools of Painting and Design
were founded in 1870. Among the first members of the
life class were Cooke, White, M‘Cubbin, Richardson,
Johnstone, and Tom Roberts. They were followed by
Streeton, Withers, Mather, Colquhoun, Gibbs, J. Ashton,
Fox, Tucker, Mackennal, Conder, Bunny, &c. Here, too,
the scholarship-men, such as Longstaff, A, Altson, Quinn,
Coates, Meldrum, and M. Altson, foregathered round the
throne. Buvelot came in 1865. In 1870 the Academy of
Arts was formed. This amalgamated with the Art Asso-
ciation in 1886. The Association had been formed by the
professionals, who broke away from the amateurs. The
afterwards eminent sculptor Woolner was a Melbourne
resident in 1852.
* * * *
Another divorce in Melbourne with the
type-writer prominent. The Bill to abolish type-
writers will have to follow hard on that for the
abolition of barmaids.
“A SMOKER’S TRINITY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When filled with glory and conceit,
Say, with a girl beside the sea
(A band makes softest melody),
To make my happiness complete,
There’s one thing yet—
As we coquette with lips and eyes,
And whisper tender honeyed lies —
A cigarette !
The waiter clears the wine and fruits,
And brings the coffee and liqueurs,
A starlit night without allures,
The chaffeur round the corner toots
The motor car.
Soon, through the city bathed in light
We flash. Ah, then ! What keen delight—
A mild cigar 1
Back to the bush. At break of day
The billy boils ; we saddle up
And take a healthy bite and sup,
Then mount and gaily ride our way—
Then, time is ripe
To light and puff with deep content,
Best friend that man was ever sent,
A seasoned pipe!
n.s. w.
DRILETER.
When maidens are but one to eight
Compared with eager men,
How coy and blushful, how sedate,
The sought-for darlings then !
But, oh ! how free with smile and glance,
How full of risky fun,
How quick those girls to seize a chance
When they are eight to one !


D
O
O
0
“ Guide To Beauty ’’—Free ! We will be glad
to send this book free to any applicant. It tells
all about the wonderful Valaze. Valaze works
with a magic power on'the skin. It cleanses the
pores and nourishes them with the most perfect
combination of ingredients ever incorporated to-
gether in one jar. That makes beautiful com-
plexions. Price 3s. 6d. and 6s. jars Posted 6d.
extra. Valaze Soap 2s. (lasts six months);
Valaze Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. 6d. packet; Valaze
Skin Tonic, most cooling and refreshing 3s. 6d.
bottle; Valaze Face powder 2s. box (3 tints) to
dust on the face. Ask your chemist or write
Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States pn receipt of Postal Rote
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
df
“CGA^ENETTES
lioU Are the Ideal Fabrics
gt/ RAINCOATS.
The New
(Jorsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . • «
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 5, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
Taking a second look at Sydney Art Society’s
show I noticed that Syd. Long, Julian and
Howard Ashton, Alice Muskett and Piguenit do
not exhibit. Percy Spence can afford to neigh
with pride over his horses on a bleak, wind-swept
hill. In Norman Carter’s portrait of his cello-
playing brother the artist has mastered many
difficulties. Legs and arms flung forward or thrust
backward, curved wrist, curled fingers, and face
lowered over an uncouth-looking instrument.
Norman Carter, if that is his beginning,, will go
far in portrait painting. Of Watkins’ pictures I
like his Red Drape best. Fred. Leist has one
extraordinary effort—a nude lady standing under
an arched tree. Her feet rest on top of the grass
blades, and she is “cooee-ing” for a necklace and
a bangle, as some thief has stolen her clothes.
Leist’s other picture—a shanty with pumpkins—
is a dear little bit of color.
Lister Lister has a satisfactory seascape (No.
149). We have all seen ’scapes just like this (you
know Whistler’s retort about “Naturegetting on”),
and it has the “feeling” of the “menace of the
irreclaimable sea.” Henri Tebbitt’s bit of Cook’s
River at Tempe—a dreamy tender thing—
soon found a purchaser. The National Gallery
bought eight pictures, including three of
Minns’. Albert Hanson and George Collingridge
have some pleasant touches of green wood
and cheerful sun-baked lands. Dattilo-Rubbo
is always reckoned the “strong,” uncompromising
painter among the Sydney artists. His “Banzai”
is a Domain-dosser backgrounded by the Jap flag
streaming with blood, and flourishing a property
sword. Miss A. Cusack’s “Narcissi” and “Gum
Blossom and Bottle-Brush” are worthy of her
reputation as a flower painter of skill. Her sister
Edith is a large exhibitor of floral studies and
portraits. Her “ Black Hat ” is a much fancied
study. Miss Muriel Nicholls is a clever damsel,
and her tiny color studies of children (rather after
the style of Elizabeth Shippen Greene) are just
delightful.
Concerning Datillo-Rubbo’s “Banzai.” The
artist, when painting the picture, went- to the
Jap. Consul for a sword so. as to get the correct
thing. The Consul was stiff and proud as became
a brown representative of the conquering race, and
presumed that by this time the Japanese brand of
weapon was well known, or ought to be. Rubbo
went away and painted the gory “ Banzai.” Then
he wanted the Jap. Consul to come and see the
awful damage the Russians had done to his people.
The visit to N.S. Wales of Earl and Lady
Jersey will interest the men rather than the
women of the State. Jersey was a very popular
Governor. He made a good start by speaking in
defence of Australia against its “mosquito critics ”
the day his feet touched N.S. Wales soil. It was
a time when, owing to the shocking habit our
representative citizens had of running building
societies and banks to smash, this country was
having a bad time from the London press. Lady
Jersey hardly shared her husband’s popularity.
She was credited with being a bit of a blue stock-
ing, and knowledge is a thing which Mrs. Potts
Point finds irritating.
The Jerseys patronised “Arts and Letters”
some, whilst here. The habit that Mr. W. N.
Willis had of reciting “Friends, Romans, Coun-
trymen ” and “ Alas poor Yokel,” and other
Shakspearian gems when he wasn’t getting im-
provement leases, earned for him the friendship
of the Vice-regal pair, and on one of his
visits to England the magnetic land-agent
stayed with them. I don’t know how many
castles Lord Jersey has, but he must have
several, or be occasionally over-crowded, for he
is most generous in entertaining Australians
abroad. Mr. Daniel O’Connor, who has been
trying to transmute some of his Demosthenic elo-
quence into cold type, wrote to Lord Jersey
asking his advice as to whether he should publish
in London or in Sydney. “In London,” came
the cabled reply. “Be my guest while here.”
At Mr. Laurance Phillip’s concert the other
night Miss Jean Maclurcan (whose portrait appears
elsewhere) made her debut as a singer. She
suffered much from nervousness and will not do
herself justice until she warbles with the con-
fidence of a canary. Miss Maclurcan has a clear
birdlike voice of excellent quality.
Good news ! Lady Rawson has recovered and
with his Ex. and Miss Alice are giving long,
long thoughts to their return journey to Sydney.
Mrs. Brough opens a fancy-dress bazaar to-day
at the Unitarian church. Now, that’s being
popular! You must be some waratahs in your
country before you are asked to open church fetes.
The rather quiet Darlevs came out of their
cocoons last night, and, with pretty Mrs. Forbes
Sempill and Captain Wilson, made a bright-
looking party at the “Walls of Jericho.”
A curious little law case that went quite un-
reported occurred a fortnight ago. Fuller Golden,
the imported Tivoli star of the moment, invited
theatrical manager William Anderson, and the
latter’s business manager, Skinner, to dinner at
the Wentworth Hotel. Whilst the distinguished
party were eating bird of Paradise cooked in
violets, the overcoats of Anderson and Skinner
were stolen (perhaps by some embittered rival
manager) from the hall of the hotel. The losers
sued Mrs. Maclurcan, the proprietress (and writer
of the best Australian cookery book) for nine
guineas’ worth of lost overcoat. The smart little
widow repudiated responsibility, and when the
case came before Mr. Donaldson the plaintiffs
were non-suited. The losers were not the lady’s
guests, it seemed, but the guests of a guest.
Law’s a tricky thing, and this decision seems to
suggest that Fuller Golden is legally responsible
for the escaped clothes.
Talking of divorce: A “motive” for a
D’Annunzio drama can be found in the suit of the
Kaid Sir Henry Maclean, late military adviser to
the Sultan of Morocco, against his wife. Their
daughter was her mother’s denouncer, and the
girl’s white-hot jealous rage when she concluded
that her suitor was only using his “ engagement ”
to her as a screen for his intrigue with her
mother is a study in elementary passion. All
the parties seem to have been given
over to the primary passions, and there was a
fine setting to the intrigue—romantic gardens,
laurels in flower, and the Spanish woman (Mrs.
Maclean) with her white face and dark eyes and
her fan-flirtings. One seems to breathe a dense
tropical atmosphere. As to “ Patsy ” Maclean,
the daughter, the Judge must have felt that he
was “ assisting at the toilette of a woman’s soul,”
to use an American critic’s telling phrase. Any-
one who wants the basis of a drama has it here ;
all he needs is a desert, and a white-washed city,
and two or three camels, and an insurrection for
local coloring.
Young barrister Curtis and his two collabo-
rators in the writing of the comic opera,
“ The Coquette,” deserve, after all, a sheaf of
good words. If “The Coquette” had come
from London with the names of the writers
of “ Florodora ” and “The Cingalee” on it,
and been presented by J. C. Williamson with
his superb accessories, all our capital cities would
have welcomed it —wearily, perhaps, because of its
so much reminiscence—but welcomed it all the
same. The makers evidently worked most of the
time with their heads turned over their shoulders
and looking at the corpses of other comic operas.
As some Superior Person has said, “We are
handicapped by our self-consciousness. Who
would be original must be a Nonconformist.”
I wish Mr. Curtis would recast his opera and
make it Australian. Or if there is no picturesque
setting for it on this continent—if Mr. Willis
really has all the desirable sites—then let the
scene be placed near the Arctic circle by way of
novelty. We are all sick of Ceylon and India. I
want a chorus of bears and icebergs, with Arctic
foxes loping round, and dramatic personages of
the Esquimaux persuasion, and explorers, male
and female. Enter the heroine sucking a piece
of blubber, whilst the Aurora Borealis plays the
chromatic scale.
Principal girls who appeared in ‘ ‘ The Coquette ”
were pupils of Madame Christian. Miss M. Regan
disclosed a clear, sweet soprano; Miss Clare Lyt-
tleton, who is a daughter of Justice Chubb, of
Queensland, hasn’t much of a voice, but otherwise
Providence has been mighty kind to her. Mr.
Curtis’s acting of an insurance agent will uphold
his reputation as the best amateur character actor
at large in this Lands Commission city. And the
voices raised by Messrs. W. S. Gordon and J. 0.
M‘Keown were pleasant surprises to the majority
of the audience.
I wish Miss O’Neil would give more Parthenias
and fewer Antoinettes. Former is a charming
play, and Nance’s outfit—a flowing classic robe,
flowing fair hair, and a big bunch of violets—is a
poetic one in which to travel mountain defiles to
Ingomar’s robber camp. If she had but entered
carrying a dress-basket (one strap slipping) or an
ancient Greek carpet-bag.
“Cranbrook,” the residence of the State Gover-
nor, is now musical (or noisy, according to your
point of view) with the mewlings of a son born to
the Harrison Smiths. Papa H.S. is private secre-
tary to Excellency Rawson when the latter is at
home.
The three handsomest women appearing on the
Australian stage to-day are Americans—Maud
Jeffries, Maud Amber, and Nance O Neil.
If you are a dissentient to this statement
please speak up. I can almost feel voices saying
“Mrs. Maesmore Morris.” Personally I think
her the prettiest—please note the distinction—and
portrait-wise she’s beautiful. But when it comes
to portraits, can any of ’em be got up to look more
beautiful than those of Nellie Stewart? Talking
of Americans, Miss Marie Narelle has now got
the New York stamp on her face, figure, dress and
coiffure. You take her to be an American born
(from her latest portraits), and she seems to have
the pride of poise that comes of artistic success
and large takings at the box-office. I notice that
she’s engaged right into 1906 in the country wlieie
the dove is now a bigger bird than the eagle.
Miss Bertha Faning and Miss Annie Perry,
well-known Sydney warblers, have returned from
European study. Miss Maggie Sterling is also on
her way out here for a concert tour.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“ Mrs.'Maesmore Morris is just now a shadow
of her former self. In serpentine velvet, when
managing that artful twist of her limbs, she
looks like a stately boa - constrictor up on
end. There is no curve—she is just one
long slender note of exclamation weighed down
with clothes. Tins thinning is said to be
due to anxiety as to that divorce suit, and strollers
in the Gardens the day following the decree nisi
till of the pale and spirituelle beauty with
mournful visage and eyes that had done
much weeping. All of which argues nice
and admirable feelings in the lady, although
she was reported as smiling at certain items
in her cross-examination. The great point
in the beauty’s favor was the sympathy ot
the Morris clan. The ma-in-law has always loved
the fair one.
“ In ‘ Her Way,’ Mrs. Maesmore Morris, as the
wife of the spendthrift, is adjured by a worldly
mama to go and get a divorce—‘a widow having
such a great chance of a good catch ! Each
night, after her own decree, this line caused a
round-mouthed ‘ Oh ! ’ from the audience.
“Dame Forrest fussed off by the Oruba with
the G.-G. detachment on Tuesday. She desires to
personally bow their Exes into the sandy State
and lead the forthcoming kow-tow. In the West,
it is likely the dame’s pilotage will be resented by
the Six Families who have been asking each other
for several seasons if the Forrest pair are to ride
the social whirlwind for ever.
“ The Daffodil Show hurt one’s expectations.
The warm-hearted lovers of the Yere de Vere
blossom experienced a nasty chill on entering the
Athenaeum Hall on Thursday. The growers had
their perfect blooms labelled and set forth like so
many cannibal skulls, or other curios of a dead
and dried museum. The tables were far apart.
So instead of a full golden flush of daffodils, the
eye encountered a speck just here and there, with
drab spaces as a huge parenthesis. Byron
Moore and other amateur culturists did
the rounds of the tables in a coldly
critical spirit. A few haughty culturists dotted
down the choicest daffodil labels for emulative
purposes, and a thin line of grey old Goodies
meandered round the tables. As a daffodil party
the show was a disappointment.
“ A correspondent sends me this, assuring me of
its veracity:—
They are telling a remarkable story about a dog in
Federal circles just now. Lady Northcote has a favorite
pug dog that suffers severely from sea-sickness. Lady
Northcote, who loves that poodle dearly, is going shortly
to Westralia, and, ’tis said, asked one of the Federal
Ministers if he would mind taking Fido over to Adelaide
by rail, so as to save the quadruped as much as possible.
The Minister thought it was a joke, and said he would do
so. But, later on, Lady N. sent the Minister a dainty
note asking whether he would call for Fido, or whether
she should deliver the brief blunt beast at the Minister’s
office per flunkey. The amazed politician replied that he
had thought the request a jest, and that he had some-
thing else to do besides dragging poodles over the con-
tinent. And there is vexation in consequence. It
suggests the necessity for creating a Minister for Portable
Dogs. The portfolio might be given to Mr. Wilks, who
has had experience hauling the Yellow Pup around.
“The Kennel Club, which is run entirely by
the second sex, has as a prize exhibit and a decoy
for the public some dachshunds, belonging to the
State Exes. These particular pets, marked ‘ not
for competition,’ and guarded by a Ston-
ington servant, snored at ease under a
great spread of Union Jacks in the centre
of the circu?. When Dame Talbot hove in
sight, the attendant prodded the pets into
lively attention, and this passed to glad cavort-
ings at sight of their mistress. Miss Talbot, who
had a collie on show somewhere, likewise was
treated to doggie hospitality, and the Cliveden
widow and Mrs. Charles Ryan, as bodyguard to
the pair of tall Talbotesses, said sweet things
about their dogs. The Stonington dame had,
however, saved all her enthusiasm for the
birds. She spent a time that must have
been trying to her followers and the
Private Sec. (who carried a comforter) talking
and whistling bird lingo to the feathered speci-
mens. Miss Talbot tried several times to execute a
crescendo whistling passage at various cages, but
she didn’t accomplish any. The Vice-Regal dame
managed that creditably. She can whistle. Her
early education hasn’t been altogether neglected.
“ A Melbourne bride-elect changes her name in
a lace frock valued at £2OO, without counting in
the under-laces and other frillies. The costly out-
fit is the result of a prosperous bar-business with
an extensive jug-trade.
“ The transparent lace yokes for spring garb are
to be lined with cream or faint-pink chiffon. Such
a lining is suitable either for the raw-chested or
the pallid-skinned. The cream tones down the
leafy aspect, and the pink induces a narcissus
flush.
“ Manager G. Musgrove comes back from the
Big Smoke with a pocket full of plans and plays.
One intention is to make a Yank tour with an
Australian contingent to back up Sweet Nell.
Miss Amy Willard—the saucy brunette with the
wasp waist and the twinkle —is one member likely
to be booked, and perhaps the plump, genial Miss
Singleton. The men of the present co., also Mrs.
Morris and others, will probably say ‘ ta-ta ’ to
manager George in November.
“Perhaps to demonstrate to this city how hale
and hearty and pink-toned she is, Miss Stewart
has been rushing round the shops and giving the
drapery business a stir. She has bought high
stacks of Spring millinery, reams of lace, leagues
of silk, and some of the latest 16-rib brollies.
Sweet Nell knew at. once the feature of the new
gamp. She remarked, ‘My ! what a lot of iron-
mongery ! ’ The sex that counts inaccurately and
generaliv fails in all branches of mathematics
doesn’t know till it is told that eight brolly ribs
once prevailed, but that 16 are now the thing.
“The Cliveden widow enjoys a new title, con-
tributed gratuitously by the Kennel fraternity—
that oil President of the Cat Club. At Saturday’s
show the placard, ‘ Vote for the Most Popular
Cat,’ led to all kinds of rude remarks.
“Mr. Hal Cohen—the one beauty-male to
graduate in song at the Albert-street Conserva-
torium —is giving two recitals at Glen’s this month,
and all the girleens who tootle, or strum, or polish
up their foreign tattle at the Wiedermann estab-
lishment, are round selling tickets with the most
engaging and naive earnestness.
“The dame of Rupertswood now runs two
establishments in the Cold Country. She has her
Mayfair mansion for the season and a rural eyrie,
in the Bucks District (of all places !). Miss Nancy
O’Loghlen flits to her now and then.
“The mask and false nose are being prepared
for the Scandinavian hop next Friday. Motley
will be the only wear, and a great spectacle is
promised.
.“Inconsequence of the publication of a bridal
group, snap-shotted by a clever camera-man and
reproduced in a Melbourne weekly, trouble, it is
said, brews.
“A haberdashery and kitchen-ware At Home
was given by Mrs. York-Syme to a bride-elect
last week. The fortunate young person to get all
her cambric hankies and tin-pots as an aid to
matrimonial bliss was Miss Myra Allan, daughter
of a local Vicar, and the happy man is a Tas-
manian named M’Eachern.
“ The hunting Lorimers entertained a number
of kids and a sprinkling of grown-ups at a fancy
hop the last Saturday in August. The guests were
beseeched to get up florally, and libels on roses
and other blooms occurred with the excuse of good
intentions.
“A widower of wealth satisfied his relatives a
while ago of his non-matrimonial intentions, much
to the joy of the family, which had been alarmed
at his interest in an ex-chorus girl. Now the girls
say ‘ Papa is amused at the ridiculous things
people say. He may do many foolish things but
he will never marry again. It is such sport to
know this, and see the girls setting their caps at
our dear old Pater ! ’ It would be, I should say,
somewhat difficult to make eyes at a widower
under the mocking inspection of a couple of
daughters. One would need to be a cast-iron
spinster of desperate pluck or a highly experienced
widow for the task. A Papa guarded by numer-
ous daughters is almost inaccessible.
“Mr. Horace Stevens, the melancholy baritone
of the fine range, faced the matrimonial rails with
Miss Chapman, a gentle suburban girl, the other
Saturday. All the world of song rolled up to the
Cathedral for the marriage, and all St. Pauls
choir members, boys past and present, raised their
voices in the Eden chant to do their old mate
proud. But he was as serious as ever, and seemed
to regard the ceremony as an awfully solemn
business. The bridegroom is, among other things,
a fully-qualified dentist. How she-patients must
joy in that sad, sympathetic visage when it cranes
over to inspect a tooth that aches! A Collins-street
medico enjoys a fat income on the strength of a
face full of unutterable woe. ‘He knows, he
understands,’ says the sex that pines for sympathy.
“A sensation broke up the dull morning hours
of a large Melbourne hotel the other day, when a
deputation of dames waited on the manager to
ask that a lady carrying consumption germs
on her person be given a short and sharp
conge. The manager protested that he wasn’t
a Medical Board, and couldn’t constitute himself
a special officer to inquire as to what lady-visitors
suffered from, especially as most of them seemed
to suffer from something or other. The deputa-
tion insisted that something would have to be
done, or they’d leave in a body. He had just
decided to let them leave, when the lady of the
germs coughed herself to another capital, and
cleared the atmosphere of trouble. Fumigators
were set to work, and now peace and hygiene
reign in that establishment.
“A new engagement is that of Dr. F. U.
O’Sullivan to Miss Minna Bourke, the pretty chick
of a wealthy Gippslander. The doctor is a younger
brother of the globe-trotting physician. The two
O’Sullivans have a portentously grave air,
and their manner of showing Off their immense
cliest-areas suggests a pair of colossal pouter
pigeons.
‘ ‘ There is to be another attempt at a Henley on
the Smell River. This time it will be made in
October, when the wattle is in full bloom and the
willows that weep on the high banks of the per-
spective view are in leaf. It’s to be hoped that
the swagger Toorakites who run the revel will
pay for a few yards of art muslin this year to
clothe the nakedness of the boot boxes that serve
them for pagodas.
“ Senator Bobby Best, who not so long ago com-
mitted matrimony for the second time, deplores,
in a Melbourne interview, the wane of domestic
life in the Cold Country. He tells of the flat
craze and love of hotel life, and mourns the old
English custom of extensive families and fireside
circles.
“A bride went weeping to the altar a few
weeks ago because her pa refused to waste a day
at the knot-tying. He attended his Government
post with his Gladstone bag, according to custom,
and merely arrived home when his old slippers
were being pelted at the departing pair. A wiser
parent would have arrived a little earlier and
saved the slippers.
Yours Affectionately,
ENNEHI.


CRIPPLED FOR LIFE
Awful iluscular Rheumatism
Cured, After Doctors Failed, by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ rr«o look at Roy now you would never dream
■ that the doctors gave him up as a hope-
B less cripple a few years ago, ” said Mrs.
Wade,, of 93 Bond-street, E. Ballarat,
“He would have been bed-ridden to-day, and
twisted into all shapes with Muscular Rheumatism
if it hadn’t been for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They raised him from a cripple’s bed after the best
doctors in Ballarat had failed to do him any good.
He is as healthy and active to-day as any young
fellow of 15 in the town.
“When he was 7 Roy had Scarlet Fever, and
just when he was getting well he caught a chill
which settled in the muscles of his leg. I noticed
that he always lay in bed with his leg doubled up.
When I tried to straighten it one morning he
screamed with pain. Every day it got worse.
At last it was twisted up like aV. I brought the
doctor, and he gave me a liniment to rub into the
leg. He told me to keep Roy wrapped up in-
wadding day and night. I carried out his orders,
but it nearly broke my heart to see how much the
little fellow suffered when I was rubbing him. He
would clinch his teeth, and big tears rolled down
his cheeks before he would cry out for me to stop.
In spite of all the torture, this rubbing only
seemed to make him worse.
“When T went to make up his bed he would
scream if I touched his leg. No one will ever
know all that child suffered. After I had rubbed
him and kept him in wadding for a month, his leg
was doubled up worse than ever and the pain was
twice as bad,” added Mrs. Wade. “The doctor
said he would have to have a consultation, and he
called in another doctor. They decided to
straighten his leg by force, and strapped it down
to a' splint. They' had to give Roy chloroform,
and the operation took them nearly an hour.
They said it was the only way to save him from
being crippled for life.
“ Never to my dying day will I forget the way
Roy suffered after he came out of the chloroform.
For the first three days the agony nearly drove
him mad. • I nearly went mad myself listening to
his screams and groans. He used to beg me to
undo the straps and take the splint away.
‘Mother,’ he cried, ‘it’s killing me.’ The tears
rolled down my face when I told him that he
would never be,able to walk again if I undid the
straps. He couldn’t move. My niece and I had
to turn him in bed. If there had been another
week of it, I think it would have killed him. But
after eleven days the doctors took the splint off,
and the whole thing was a failure. In a few
days the leg was doubled up like a V again, and
the pain was worse than ever.
“ For the next two months, the doctor attended
him. All that time he was an absolute cripple.
The doctor owned up that he was crippled for life.
In despair, Mr. Wade went to a Chinese doctor —
but he asked £2O, and even then he would not
guarantee a cure. Then I got my husband to go
down to Melbourne and consult the best Specialist
that money could procure there.
“ All this time my niece had been trying to
make me try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Roy,”
Mrs. Wade continued. “She kept telling me of
a man they had cured of Muscular Rheumatism
after the best Hospital doctors said he would never
walk another step. When Mr. Wade was down in
the city I made up my mind to give Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills a trial, and got some from King, the
chemist in Sturt-street.
“The very first box made Roy eat the best
meal that had passed his lips since he was taken
with Scarlet Fever. I only gave him half a- pill
after each meal—but I followed the directions and
gave him a piping hot bath every night. A week
later Roy told me that the pain wasn’t half as bad
as it had been. I made him try to stretch his leg
a little further every day. Within two months his
leg was as straight as ever and he could walk with
a firm step. To-day, Roy Wade is as active as any
boy of his age in Ballarat. If it hadn’t been for
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills he would have been bed-
ridden all these years.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills do only one thing, bu t
they do it well—they actually make new blood.
But the blood is the root of all health. If you are
in doubt about your own case, write for free
medical advice to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney. From that address you can also order
by mail the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills—
2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post free.
D? WILLI A MS 9
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A member of the Banaualand Parliament
is going so often to the refreshment room that his
friends are concerned.
Died at Singleton (N.S.W.) aboriginal
Booboogoorranygalley, called “ Bandy” for short :
aged 100, according to native authority.
Labor member Dunsforcl, elected to
Bananaland Parliament in 1893, never missed a
sitting until the beginning of the present session,
when illness dragged him from the place where he
had sat till he nearly took root.
Patrick Brougham, who died recently, at
Gundagai (N.S.W.), aged 86, was a nephew of the
late Lord Chancellor who had the vehicle named
after him. Patrick came to Australia in his youth,
and at the time of his death was owner of Hart-
wood station, near Deniliquin.
There was married quite recently in a
fashionable manner and in a fashionable church,
the near relative of an old-time bushranger, who,
having done his time, settled in a homestead of
his own, and became as sedate and respectable as
the most dignified bishop could desire.
Dr. Normand M‘Laurin, Sydney’s political
medico, now aged 70 years, gains £5OOO by the
bequest of his deceased patient, W. E. Sparke.
It is not often that a patient thus evinces his
gratitude after he is dead. More frequently he
forgets to pay his bill when he is alive.
Ex-Justice Foster, Parkes’s old Attorney-
General, stands as the horrid example when the
question of judicial pensions comes up. He
slipped on to N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench in a
way many thought crafty, served with long holi-
days from February 14, 1888, to December 18,
1894, and has since been drawing a pension of
£lB2O per annum.
When Alfred Deakin’s father was book-
keepingfor Cobb and Co. (Robertson and Wagner),
at the Albion Hotel, Bourke-street,_ Melbourne,
Robertson discovered signs of promise in young
Deakin, and, it is said, paid for his education at
the Church of England Grammar School, where
the boy was afterwards teacher for a time. Very
early in life Alfred joined a debating society, and
at once displayed the astonishing powers of subli-
mated verbosity that have filled so much Hansard
since.
An Australian Hebrew—one Esmond
Sinauer, whose grandfather was the late Bingy
Bingy, of Melbourne—has scored another point
for the Chosen by carrying off a whole sheaf of
examination honors at Woolwich (England) Mili-
tary Academy. His total number of marks was a
record. He took two gold medals and eight other
prizes for military engineering, tactics, topo-
graphy, See., and his name is inscribed on a tablet
in the hall of the Royal Military Academy. The
word “genius” is misspelt. It should be
“ jewnius.”
Octavius C. Beale, of Sydney, goes to
Europe shortly on a pleasure trip, and he gene-
rously placed some of his leisure whilst abroad at
the disposal of the Commonwealth Government.
He was therefore asked to collect some facts about
certain foreign poisonous proprietary medicines
imported into the Commonwealth, and about in-
fant mortality. And what a howl there was from
the N.S.W. Foreign-traders in the Australian
Parliament when the fact was disclosed that Mr.
Beale was to be allowed to do this work for his
country at his own expense ! The explanation is
that Mr. Beale is a manufacturer; and an Aus-
tralian manufacturer, in the eyes of the Australian
Foreign-trader, is an habitual criminal.
TAIT, CHIEF COMMISSIONER OF
BENT S RAIL WAYS.
A Tasmanian pioneer with an historic
name died recently. Mr. St. Paul Gellibrand
belonged to an old English family. One of his
name, J. Tice Gellibrand, was Attorney-General
of Tasmania (known then as Van Diemen’s Land)
in the thirties, and was one of the fifteen members
of the Port Phillip Association on whose account
John Batman made his big land bargain with the
blacks. Tice Gellibrand visited Port Phillip, and,
with a friend, made an excursion into the Colac
forest. They were never heard of afterwards.
The blacks were suspected of cannibalism in those
days, and if that accounts for Gellibrand’s disap-
pearance he was probably the only Attorney-
General on record who was eaten.
The late W. E. Sparke was the richest
Australian who died in his own country since
millionaire Tyson passed out. His estate was
valued at £423,777, and provided a windfall for
Carruthers of between £40,000 and £50,000 in
probate duties. Bulk of estate is left to the
Carsons, the residuary legatee being a wine and
spirit merchant, to whom goes the mansion of St.
Monan’s, Elizabeth Bay, Sydney. Deceased used
to say that John See offered to purchase St.
Monan’s for use as a State Government House,
but even the large price offered did not tempt
Sparke. He preferred to end his days at his old
home, and a few more tens of thousands were of
no importance to him.
A LACK
OF
SENTIMENT.
HAMFAT: “I assure you, madam, lam immensely popular in hoarding-houses. Land-
ladies have wept, madam, wept, when I have left them.”
MRS. 'ARDPACE : “ Ho, indeed, sir. Which, in that case, my terms is cash in advance."
It is said that one of the bitterest
opponents to the candidature of Meehan, M.P.,
in the last State election, was an outback aider-
man who waxed indignant over the “cheek” of
an uneducated shearer presuming to oppose Nick
Willis. During the campaign the alderman was
elected mayor, and his first joyous duty was to
convene a meeting in opposition to Meehan. Ihe
council clerk drew his attention to the draft notice
re the holding of the meeting, which document
was signed, “John Bloggins, Mare.’ “Well,
ain’t I the blanky mare ?” was all the satisfaction
he got from the staunch upholder of education.
Some tangled obituary :
Accidentally shot in South Africa, while hunting, Harry
Hutchinson Roberts, son of the late R. H. Roberts,
M.L.C. (N.S.W.), aged 36. In the early thirties Joseph
Roberts, of Burwood, married a daughter of William
Hutchinson, “ of London,” the daughter being a Sydney
native. On Roberts’ death, the widow married the late
John Lackey, President N.S.W. Leg. Council. The origi-
nal Hutchinson held the position of superintendent of
Government mills, and afterwards superintendent of con-
victs. He lived in a square brick house on the south-
east corner of King and George-streets. The Arcade
property is still in the family, as may be noted on a tablet
within. R. H. Roberts, M.L.C., married a daughter of
Emmanuel Neich, who, in the thirties, kept The Black
Dog publichouse (now the Ocean Wave), on the Rocks.
Mr. Neich afterwards kept an inn at Burwood for 60 years.,
Wm. Hutchinson was known as “ The Convicts’ Banker,”
inasmuch as before the establishment of the Savings Bank
he kept the savings of such of the “bond” as were thrifty.
‘ ‘ Ku Klux ” writes indignantly
Allow me a corner of your backyard to argue the point
with “ E.” (24/8/’O5) re Bent. I want “E.’s” scalp. So
Tommy “ believes strenuously in his country, the finest
place on God’s earth, etc.” Let “E.” ask the unemployed
ironworker if that is his opinion. When they have a trial
of the new dredge Pioneer would be a good time to put
the question. The idea of holding up the Brighton
Bounder as a model Socialist!—the man who was used by
Irvine and Shiels as a catspaw in the railway strike, the
man who, as head of a suburban gasworks, is now
virtually defying the Commonwealth by importing a
manager who' could easily he obtained here, the man who
imported Tait to undermine the eight hours system on
the railways, the man who was a member of the Govern-
ment which allowed the Waranga Basin contractor to
evade the minimum wage. Let “ E.” do as I have done.
Go down to the Labor Bureau, and, after his name has
been on the register for two months, see a Brighton man
who has been registered two days get a job in front of
him. Yes, Tommy is good, good to himself and his friends.
Miss Greig, the first lady barrister, or
barristeress, in Australia, is a daughter of the
senior partner in the old firm of Greig and
Murray, auctioneers, of Collins-street, Melbourne;
her mother being a sister of the Jate William Bede
Dailey. Greig and Murray in the early sixties
succeeded to the business of Mr. Tennant, the sale
room standing between the old Union Bank and
the Hall of Commerce (“Under the Verandah”).
It requires years to put the veneer upon a
Judge. That may be observed in the High Court
whenever Justices Griffith, Barton, and O’Connor
pronounce successive judgments. Barton
and O’Connor appear to be continually
rebutting, refuting, re-establishing.
They have not yet put on that
coating which long years have
made glisten on Griffith —a calm,
impersonal omniscience to give his
pronouncement the air of utter
finality. Listening to that fiat,
one wonders that any Court of
Appeal ever had the audacity to up-
set it. Such an air of infallibility comes to a Judge
only after the reversing of many of his decisions.
Seeing that so often somebody is wrong, the only
possible attitude for a sensible man is that he is
always right. But it takes time before a Judge
learns to do it automatically.
The worst man to take a beating in Federal
politics is Josiah Symon. Smiling, courteous,
compromising and gentle in his handling of the
Labor party whilst holding the office of Attorney-
General, Reid’s defeat has converted Symon into
a snarling, irascible person, with the manners of a
badly-educated dingo. Not only does the party
opposite suffer by Symon’s frequent exhibitions of
temper, but his own followers come in for it.
Poor old Walker, Tory of all the Tories, but per-
sonally as decent a man as ever sat in Parliament,
tried to move a perfectly tame and harmless
amendment, when Symon gritted at him through
his teeth. “ The honorable gentleman attaches far
too much importance to himself.” Walker was too
much taken aback to reply to the insult. Every-
body expected a subsequent apology, but the
leader of the Senate Opposition made no attempt
to atone for his boorishness to perhaps the most
faithful supporter of his own side.
Comlhwaite Hector Kason, the new
Premier of Westralia, was some kind of an
M.L.C. in that State about 1889, but made
his real political start in 1897, when South
Murchison returned him triumphantly at the head
of the poll with 87 votes. The next man received
80 votes, and the whole four candidates had 213
among them. (Even then Rason wasn’t the most
remarkable specimen of the year, for Wallace of
Yalgoo won with 39 votes in an exciting poll of
77.) In 1901 things improved ; Rason stood for
Guildford, and got 241 votes, beating the next
man by 12.
F. M. Bailey, F.L.S., Queensland’s
enthusiastic botanist, who has contributed
immensely, in his long official life, to the world’s
knowledge of Australian flora, has his declining
years smoothed I>y a salary of £l5O a year from an
ungrateful State. At best he has neyer been
rated on the Estimates higher than a chief clerk,
and for years has been salaried at the rate of a
messenger. Bailey is old, it is true, and at one
time was paid a little better—very little. With
Ur. Maxwell drawing £3OOO a year, and the
Botanist £l5O, Queensland can show two extremes
that don’t meet.
A base trick was played in the Heps.,
the other night, upon Arthur Robinson, the cypher
who gesticulates on behalf of Wannon (Vic.).
Arthur was speaking on the terrific iniquities of
the Iron Bonus Bill, and was in a great state of
perspiration and perfervid language. A low
person in the press gallery perpetrated a vile
caricature of him, and signalled Bill Wilks to
come out into the lobby. Wilks agreed to foist
the caricature upon its victim whilst the latter
was in full explosion. Members frequently aid
one another whilst speaking with notes on points
worth stressing ; and Wilks waited until Robin-
son’s stock of infuriated memoranda was nearly
played out. Then he folded the caricature, and
passed it to the unsuspicious youth from the
Wannon, who clutched it gladly, for the last
apology for an idea had just trickled out of his
head. “Now, Mr. Speaker,” said Arthur, un-
folding the outrage, “now we have to consider
this aspect of the question.” And just then
he caught sight of his own depressing aspect, and
considered it with pain, not to say horror. The
spectacle broke him up, and the Robinson speech
ended right there.
Senator Playford, of S.A., is a remarkable
person. The vast market-gardener had little
schooling, but his stores of knowledge are none
the less extensive. Symon got up in the Senate
the other day, and threw a number of superior
clods at the provision in the Copyright Bill giving
authors 30 years’ protection from piracy after their
death. “Look at the classical writers of old
Greece,” Symon exclaimed; “they got along
very well without any Copyright Act. Socrates
had no other posthumous protection, for
instance, than his genius. Socrates lec-
tured in the Academy, .and” “No, he
didn’t,” Playford interjected, “he talked in the
street or anywhere he could. He was a regular
Yarra-banker.” Symon waved the correction
aside with the paw that has collected so many fees
and proceeded to dilate on Plato. “Look at
Plato now,” he said, “Plato didn’t look forward
to legislative protection when he wrote his
‘Memorabilia.’ Plato” “ Xenophon wrote
the ‘Memorabilia,’ not Plato,” remarked Play-
ford calmly. Symon changed the subject with a
certain air of haste.
A PUBLIC SPOT.
The Paddington Council has received from the Govern-
ment four Boer rifles, which it has been requested to
place in some prominent position.
Stick 'em. in the Mayor's stummick!
Died in Adelaide, the other day, Frederick
Mitcham, a street newsvendor, who was never
known by any other name than that of “Pompey.”
He was the most caricatured person in Adelaide—
excepting broker Jim Dick—and was one time a
musician in a street band. He looked exactly like
a man who had blown a trombone so vigorously
that he had never been able to get his face back
into its proper position.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running- day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
sd
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH,
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINER 1
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and CiiEAr.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
'n
V.
A
F
SEE
fsd
1
Aboriginalities.
“C.X.G.”: Travelling from IS. A. to
Queensland, via Innamincka, just recently, was
much struck with the prevalence of wild dogs
along Strzleeki Creek. A few years back, when
the S.A. Government was paying so much per
scalp, it was a rare thing to see a dingo. Now
they race alongside the mail coach for miles, and
seem to have little, if any, fear of man. Also, they
came up to the coach in the night, and chewed up
some -of the harness, right alongside where the
driver was sleeping. His language next morning
was of the most degrading character. The same
driver told me that, on the previous trip, he had
lost his horses, owing to the dogs having eaten the
green-hide hobbles off them overnight. I give
this last for what it is worth, merely pointing out
that the man was a Queenslander, and Queens-
landers are a painfully accurate people, who loathe
prevarication, and wouldn’t do an injury to the
Truth on any account, unless it attacked them
first.
A BARREN FIELD.
MULGA BILL ( who is being neglected by the
waitress): “I say, Miss, wot am I grazin’
on? ”
“ Nulla ” on various things :
Re “X.Y.” and the rat-’roo. The sudden glare of a
bright light on a dark night affects the eyes of anvthing,
more so those of the rat-’roo, for like the ’possum, native
eat and bandicoot, he is a nocturnal animal. Momentary
blindness rather than inquisitiveness causes him to afford
an easy mark. Sydney trams account for a goodly
number of roof warblers for the same reason. “ Tabby,”
crossing the road, is confused by the glare of the 32 c.p.
headlight, and crouches on the track, and then the wheels
of Juggernaut make one cat less. The trams don’t catch
many cows, so the term “cow-catcher” has been superseded
by “life-shield.” “Fool-trap,” in the drivers’ opinion,
would be an even better word.
“Den” : I once (about the year when
Alfred the Great died) struck a small S.A. sea-
port, and strolled into the police court, the only
place of amusement in the town. A very
fat and very weary J.P. was dozing on the
bench, and throwing in a bored remark now
and then when a witness became too
voluble. Prisoner was charged with stealing
an anchor. .Small boy gave evi-
dence, mostly hearsay. Local
baker swore he met a man on the
beach who told him that he (the
man) had met a man who said
that he (presumably the prisoner)
had “nicked” an anchor. Then
the constable gave evidence
of arrest, and was proceed-
ing at some length to re-
count what “a man” told
him, when he was inter-
rupted by the very tired
voice of the sleepy magis-
trate. “ Yes, yes,
constable, but
you really have
no case, you
know; no case
at all. In the
first place
(yawn), we
have no evi-
dence to show
whose proper-
ty this anchor
really is.” The
polic e m a n
scratched his
head. “ Well,
yer Worshup.
I’m not quite
certain on that
point; but I think
it belongs either to
Air. Cook or yer
Worshup.” Then the
J.P. awakened suddenly
and yelled, “ What ! ”
After that the case went
along briskly and ended in a sen-
tence of six months.
“ Croydon ” : I lately dispatched a cent*
pede by cutting him in two with a chisel. The
head made for the bush, while the tail started
towards the coast. I engineered a collision, when
tailless bucked in and worried headless. Had to
go away to defraud somebody of my next week’s
board, but returned later to find headless gone,
while tailless was exploring the humpy. I got
him into a small box. He kept going for five
days, and wore a beaten track round the box.
Finally he died in sections.
« » * *
“ Vigilans ” : The East Kimberley (W.A.)
aborigine is undoubtedly the lowest type of native
nigger in
A ustralia.
Their simi-
larity is mar-
vellous, one
being much
the same
as another.
They make
no kind of
mia sleep-
ing by a fire
naked. The
only thing
they carry
is a spear.
They are
pure canni-
bals, often
eating their
own children
shortly after
birth, arid
they will de-
vour an y-
tliing from
offal towhite
ants. To-
bacco also
is eaten by
them, mixed
with the
ashes of
wood. This
seems to act
as a. tonic on tlieir emu-like digestion. The
male is a tall, thin, cadaverous-looking nigger,
and a, great coward. The female is short, thin,
and hideous. The teeth of both sexes are short,
strong, and very even—you rarely see bad teeth.
To say these are a formidable cattle-killing race
is bunkum. They are too frightened. Prospec-
tors travel alone all over the country.
* * * *
Bunny is one more lever to level the gum-
giants along the Vic. inland water-courses. The
pests burrow amongst the giants’ roots, following
the tracks well into the banks, during the summer
and autumn. Winter and spring floods do the
rest. Soon the Big Trickle Country (on the Vic.
side especially) will be as bare of trees as a gallows,
and all because a few State officials cannot be
spared to develop the contents of a few three-
penny packets of guru-seeds, and plant the
seedlings, at the proper time, when they would
grow to shake their whiskers at posterity. Such a
proceeding would be in direct contradiction to
the, present system of forestry that does absolutely
nothing, except issue to wood-vandals licenses to
destroy what they never think to replace.
HE KNEW BUNNY’S LITTLE WAYS.
TEACHER (at bush school): “Now, Tommy, if I
gave you a pair of rabbits this week, another
pair next week, and a pair every week fol-
lowing after for two months, how many
rabbits would you then have?”
TOMMY: “ Thousands on ’em, Miss.”
The “ backbone of the country ” is a very
casual spine sometimes. Close alongside a school
in north-west Victoria, a while ag'o, the backbone
stacked his wheat, 1400 bags of it, waiting for the
price to rise. Meantime, as the mice followed the
wheat, the backbone got in a stock of strychnine
mixed it with flour, and laid it over the stack. The
school used to play on the stack, and dodge the
little heaps of poison, and, for a wonder, no
youngster dipped his finger into the stuff to see
what it tasted like. Then the plague of mice
came and tore the bags in spite of the strychnine,
and w’hen they had nicely opened up the wheat
the rain came and washed the “paste,” if there
was any left of it, among the grain. Just recently
the stack was taken down and sent away to the
mill at Horsham. And when several people in
that neighborhood were beginning to think that
they did notice something peculiar about the taste
of their bread, the local schoolmaster announced
that it couldn’t be the strychnine, because when
he saw his youngsters playing among it he went
round and brushed it off the bags. But that
wasn’t the backbone’s fault.
* * * *
“The Prooshan” : Cocky Hudson was a
deveut bird that commanded the entire respect of
his neighborhood. He threw no tumblers off the
table, neither did he invade the brown hen’s nest,
eat her egg, and then cackle to deceive the owner.
He never complained of the bread, or used pro-
fanity, or said “You’re a liar!” like the politi-
cians’ birds. He was, in every way, an exemplary
cockatoo. At night he sat on his stand in the
corner of the dining-room, with head under wing,
till the family engaged in divine worship. Then
cocky was wideawake in a moment, and took part
as earnestly as the rest. The family took no
notice of him, and saw nothing singular in the
performance ; but to a stranger it seemed droll to
see cockalorum, on hearing “ Hail, Mary ! Mother
of God! ” bow his head with crest reverently
depressed, and hear him croak “ Glory be to the
Father! Glory be to the Father !” The only
time he ever evinced a military spirit was when
Dill Macky was billed to lecture in the local hall.
A tea-agent, not unlike Dill, happening to call,
cocky rose and sampled his leg, but immediately
on discovering his mistake, he wiped his beak and
apologised.
* * * *
“O’Fipp” : Allow me to doubt whether
“Alba’s” butcher who wouldn’t eat meat, and
his fishmonger who barred fish as food for himself
(B. 17/8/’O5), are typical. Staying once in a big
boarding-house, which both fish and meat sales-
men largely patronised, I found that the butchers
believed in four heavy meat meals per day, and
the fishmongers (not Dagoes, by the way) were
never tired of eating fish. On Sundays most of
the butchers would bike inland, on the off-chance
of seeing some beefy live stock to admire ; while
the fishmongers usually spent the Sabbath in fish-
ing from Port Melbourne pier.
“ C.IT.R,” contradicts the other man, with
some firmness
Notwithstanding all remarks to the contrary, I main-
tain that roast porcupine is a fraud. After the carcase
lias been scalded (you are told to be very particular about
the scalding), it looks as though it had been blasted out
of a rock and then shot at with a Maxim. The skin is
tougher than india-rubber, the flesh as black as charcoal,
and the smell !—my dog took one sniff at the corpse after
I had heaved it out over the gum-trees, and then retired
indignantly to his stump-hole. I have cooked kangaroo,
wallaby, badger, ’possum, bandicoot, and kangaroo-rat in
every known fashion, at all ages, sizes, and seasons, and
am convinced that, disguise the meat as you will, the
strange, unpleasant, marsupial odor sticks when all
others vanish. Wallaby is particularly loathsome, the
animal being mostly a mass of worms. I draw the line at
native devils and tigers, also the marsupial-eat tribe.
However, I know a man who fished a drowned tiger-cat
out of a creek and stewed it up for breakfast. He said it
was very toothsome. This man’s camp was easily located
by its aroma. I have myself detected it at two miles. He
was affectionately known as Stinker Smith. He is still
living, I believe ;'but no ordinary mortal can hope to own
a digestive machine as effective as Stinker’s.
* * * *
“ Robert Hap ” : A lot of “ Abo.’s ” have
been explaining the different methods of tracking
the bee that leads to trees and trouble, but none
of them tells what happened when he found the
nest. The person who led me into the business
didn’t trade the bee at all. He just roamed
about the bush in an aimless way, and stumbled
over logs and things till late in the afternoon. I
carried the 71b. axe. Suddenly he stopped at the
foot of a large tree and considered the foliage from
different points. After a while he sighed, like a
man whose labors were ended, and ordered me to
“wire in.” I applied the axe with great vigor ;
my enemy sat by and smoked. When the tree
began to sway he hastily gathered a couple of
handsful of dried grass and leaves, and commanded
me, when the tree fell, to light a fire at the hole
he indicated in one of the limbs. Then he took
the axe and delivered the few final strokes.
I made a dash to carry out his instructions, but
was met half-way by all the bees in the universe.
Talk about specks before the eyes ! I couldn’t
see an inch of landscape for bees. I was bushed
in a new world, and above the buzz and excite-
ment I could hear a distant voice urging me on.
I dropped the combustibles and dived headlong
into the branches and leaves, and wished for
peace. In time matters quieted a bit, and I
emerged swollen to twice my usual dimensions.
My late friend asked me if I didn't think it was
exciting, and I told him that it was, and that I
had enjoyed myself and would come again. Then
I went and sat in a creek till the sun went down,
and a great bee-less silence fell upon the land.
■***•*
“ Elmore ”: Be wombats. Know a man
who sat for hours with a Winchester rifle over a
wombat’s hole, in vain. He hunted with dogs,
PRUDENCE.
LOST IN THE MOUNTAINS.
A newly-married couple who set out to traverse the
Federal Pass, near Katoomba on Monday morning, a three
hours’ trip, did not return that night. The police were
informed, and a search was made without success. It is
feared that the couple missed the track, and have
been lost.
FARMER: “ Guess I’d better not diskiver ’em till
they’re hungry.”
and tried to dig
the hole out,
but had to give
the digging up.
At last he
got half-a-dozen
strong dog-traps,
set them round
about the hole,
and tied 30 or
40 feet of rope
on each one.
Next morning
two traps were
gone, rope and
all. There was
only one way
the wo m bat
could get, and
tracks showed he
had taken that
way down his
hole. Now, how
far do they bur-
row ‘t
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : The latest form of
architectural development is wire-netting nailed
either side of Gin. timber, and the recess filled up
with mud mixed with straw, thus forming walls.
This style may be seen on the tenant farms in the
Wickli if e-road (S.W. Vic.) district. The land-
lords were opposed to the tenants using so much
real estate for their buildings until it dawned on
them that it might be an advantage to have the
land stood up on edge, as it were. After the rack-
rented farmers are starved out there will be the
more space for the sheep to feed upon. They can
graze on the sides of the houses, and if the
ordinary sheep fails at that kind of work it is
proposed to cross the jumbuclt with the domestic
fly, and produce a species of wool-bearing blue-
bottle that will eat grass off the ceiling.
HOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hope springs eternal ”? Well, it has a try ;
An’ him as said it might ha’ bin a digger
Who’d pottered round fer years at “ wet ” an’ “ dry,”
Dish, sluice, and “jigger.”
But if he’d had my luck on “ tucker ” fields,
An’ hoped as oft as we that he would strike a
Good thing, he’d cut “ eternal ” out; the yields
Bein’ mostly mica.
“ Hope springs eternal ” ? P’raps it do—but listen !
Yer water-bag’s bin empty ’alf a day,
An’ there’s a lake ahead that’s all a-glisten—
Hope’s dead, y’ say ?
You pads the hoof towards them great big drinks,
An’ hopes for tea and tucker at the halt ;
You dumps yer swag an’ on yer stummiek sinks—
To find it’s salt!
“ Hope springs eternal ” ? You’re a sleeper-getter,
An’ you’ve bin graftin’ on a’ ironbark patch,
Makin’ two quid a da3' —p’raps ten bob better—
A dead sweet catch !
Then, when yer cheque was growin’—in yer mind —
The Guv’mint bloke popped up and hawed and
hemmed,
An’, clearin’ out fer town, leaves word behind
They’re all condemned !
“ Hope springs eternal ” ? When all’s done an’ said,
I re’lly think the bloke wrote partly true ;
But though he hoped-a lot, he’s long since dead,
An’ me an’ you
Are still alive, and, it may be, before
We foller him, we’ve got long- .years o go,
An’ then we’ll strike him on the golden shore
(Let’s hope it’s so !).
M.L.
CLAUDE JEWELL.


What Fertilizers are to
the soil, strengthening the
crop, doubling the harvest
Cerebos salt
is to the food, fortifying
the human body and
vitalizing the brain.
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
You may talk about Niagara,
And rave of quaint Japan ;
Quote the Trans-Siberian railway
As the greatest work of man.
Not even the greatest Colossus
Can such pride of place secure,
As the famous cough reliever
Known as Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
THE . .
LADIES’
HOJ.VM «U 3> xj
99
At £6 6s.
Is a J-plate Lever. Has 15 Jewels.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has solid heavy 14-carat double Gold Case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
2 years (breakages excepted) without charge.
Will stand HARD RIDING and KNOCKING ABOUT.
Is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
This is the same movement as is used by the Railway
Guards, only, of course, in a small size.
-
55;;5®SSs
■
I
4ct - £6 6s
180 t. £7 7s
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Ande ” : While hunting up information
for a spring song, I interviewed a farmer, who
told me that—
This ’ere spring-time’s all right enough in its way, but
it’s us poor farmers has to suffer. Now, look at my place,
f’rinstance. See that yeller patch in that next paddock ?
Well, three weeks ago that was a lovely straw stack ; now
there ain’t enough to bed a horse. Them blessed sparrers
set to work and pulled it to pieces,, an’ they’ve come an’
been an’ went an’ gone an’ built their bloomin’ nests in
ther house until the blarsted place creaks with ther
weight, an’ fitted up lodgin’s in the barn until we can’t
get a bag o’ stuff into it. But, first of all, mind, they
took out 70 odd bags o’ wheat I was savin’ against a rise
in the market, an’ they’re stuffin’ themselves with my
wheat, wherever they’ve stowed it. An’ there’s times
when a crowd of ’em comes home together, they darkens
the place, so we has to light the lamps an’ chase the fowls
in for fear o’ foxes. An’ we all wears waddin’ in our ears
—look ’ere—to keep us from being - deafened by the
wretches. Wot ther bloomin’ place is cornin’ to 1 don’t
know ; and it’s no good shootin’ ’em. Jim fired a barrel
into a crowd the other day, an’, of course, the dog runs
in natural-like, an’ when they’d finished failin’ we couldn’t
see no dog, an’ it took us ’arf-an-hour to get ’im out.
Poor little beggar, ’e’s lame now. An’ then ther crows
was that bad we just had ter stop. An’ then again-;
But I had to tear myself away and get back to
town.
* * *
“Ed.” : Re fighting qualities of the horse
(B. 2/7/ 05). When the Dutch first took horses
inland in South Africa, the blacks (having been
always used to animals whose business ends were
in front) repeatedly came to grief through fooling
round what they supposed to be the harmless de-
partment of the mokes.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”; “ Robin X.” (B.
6/7/’O5) says “few women will forsake the heathen
for the Christian ; nine out of ten of the hawkers
hereabouts are Hindus or Syrians.” I have thrice
travelled the (50,000 square miles that lie West-o’-
Darling ; and during my many tiresome trips I
have seen only one colored hawker—an Afghan
driving a van and pair down the anabranch.
All other hawkers (and they were many) were
hard-working white men. I think the Asiatic owes
his success not so much to the weakness of the wives
of miners and coclcies as to his microscopic cost of
living. He exists largely upon the smell of an
oil-rag, and on begged or borrowed or bounced
flour. The women West-o’-Darling have not yet
forsaken the Christian, though a few in Silver
City do buy a bit of Afghan camel-carried
firewood.
“C.H.R.” ; The theodolite which couldn’t
shoot a line straighter than a bee’s flight to its
home is deplorably out of adjustment. As far as
my experience goes, a bee loaded for the home-
ward journey rises slowly to about 15ft., after
which it wheels rapidly in ever widening circles,
three or four times, and finally darts rapidly for
the nest as straight as circumstances will permit.
It all depends upon the scenery behind, or rather
that in front of, the bee, whether you can line its
flight or not. I have managed it a couple of times
successfully against a white-cloud background.
In other cases, when I have previously located the
nest, I found that a homing bee does not fly
straight. Often he puts in a 10-chain curve ; at
other times he steers an erratic course to avoid
timber, etc.
MISS JEAN MACLURCAN A YOUNG
SYDNEY SINGER.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
“ Wondah ” : The damming at intervals of
our inland creeks would do more to protect our
native fishes than a dozen by-laws as to the
number of hooks and the breed of worm to be
used when fishing. The Colombo Creek, near
Narrandera (N.S.W.), is an anabranch of the
Yanko, which is itself an anabranch of the
Murrumbidgee. It is dammed at intervals of
about six miles, so that there is a constant supply
of water ; and that water is teeming with Murray
cod, bream, perch, and catfish. In the Yanko,
which is not dammed, and out of which the ana-
branch comes, it is a difficult thing to catch fish,
even with a net. Besides furnishing a constant
supply of deep water, the dams prevent the sudden
freshes from stirring up the mud, and thus they
save the lives of thousands of fish, which would
be suffocated in the ordinary course of events.
AS IN A GLASS DARKLY.
DRUNK: “Lemme get at him! I tell yer that's
the bloke wot made me do in me sixty quid.”
This is a copy, minus blots, of a letter
received by a Brisbane stock and station agent,
from a servant he had sent to a situation on a
station :
plause Mr B send me my fair at onest it is a shaim
that eney man shud sent a resPecteble girl to camp out
in tiie woilde Bush would a Coach men no men if prinse-
Pel would do so
1 asted your maneger abouete it 8 toimes if i ad to be a
noight on the rode he pomes fatherfuley that yous would
not think of senden eney girl if she ad to eampe out i
amnot alone in the wourlde that i would be drenen to
sleep out in the woilde bush would eney men with
whiskeres i have frindes at townesville
but if my fair g expense do not orrive me by first male i
shell put it in foarse at onest 8 i have awaited thes sence
last tuesday payen my boarde in a boardein house it
would be bad aneif if yor maneger sot down desaven man
but desaven girls is abouete on at the lowst craimes he
cud be giltey of Mr to orrivel at stonie Creek the Coach
men tell me that he ad no sakes or bagges forme to eampe
out on i told hem that i wes told at townesville that lie
would Be thair at abouete 4 ore half Part on Saterday he
sed that he nevere went the gurney in on day 8 he cud
not do so for me he also sed that i Cud sleep onside of
bard wire 8 he would sleep on the other 8 he mite be mar-
ride i will sea into this whin i get to townesville 8 he had
whiskeres so pleause Mr B— — rePlie as sun as Poseble 8
he as no sakes or bagges for us to eampe on
Sined L J .
“Two Seas” : “X.Y.” (B. 17/8/’O5) evi-
dently knows the ’roo-rat when he says, “ His
great crime is that he digs out the maize as soon
as it appears above ground ” ; but, in my opinion,
the beastie’s criminal masterpiece is digging up
potatoes before they appear above ground. The
first seed I put in on our selection—where ’roo-
rats were more plentiful than sheep—disappeared
in a single night. Whether they knew from ex-
perience the distance apart that spuds are usually
planted, or whether they can smell them out, I
don't know ; but I do know that they sunk their
shafts dead on to the spud every time, leaving
rows of holes which were beautiful to contemplate
for their neatness if I had only been in a fit state
to appreciate scenery. ’Koo-rats are seldom seen
by day unless the dog puts one up, or unless you
tread on the nest in a tussock. At night they are
easily shot. They make a whizzing noise when
alarmed at night, but seldom hop far away—they
just stay round and whiz.
“ 8r.J.1.” :
In Maoriland
the Chows have
taken to ‘ ‘ lab-
biting.” T’other
clay a Chinky,
having dis-
covered that
“lab biters”
were making a
“ plown ” a
day, decided to
start on the
millionaire busi-
ness. A more
opulent coun-
tryman financed
him to the
extent of 12
“tlaps,” which
he planted
carefully. Go-
ing round them
next day, the
first three held
a rabbit each,
but in the fourth
was a huge tom-cat
with which the Chow
reasoned thus-wise : “ You
keepee quite, me letee you go.
You makee trouble, me killee you.” The tom,
however, held the situation, and John had to
shift the other 11 traps elsewhere. His de-
scription of his subsequent luck was: “Me
settee tlap, labbit comee alongee. Him smellee
flap, him sclatchee tlap, then him laughee and
go away. Dam ! Changawanga-hi-ya ! Dam ! ”
Rabbiting used to be at least a free and
easy occupation. Now it drifts to wage-slavery.
In one township in N.E. Victoria local laborers
who have not capital enough to obtain an outfit of
traps are employed by landowners digging out
burrows at £1 a week and find themselves !
♦ * * *
“ Gippslander ” : Re paragraph (B. 20/7/’O5)
about a horse living eight days without food or
water. I have a bullock which lived without
either from 7th June to 28tli June, being jammed
all that time between two logs, where he could
neither move backwards nor forwards, nor
lie down. With the exception of numerous scars,
which make him look like a gridiron, he seems
none the worse.
* * * *
Samuel was a man of few words, a good
shearer, but a beggar to scamp his work. The
boss, also a man of few words, sacked him after
the second day ; but next morning Samuel was in
his place. The boss said nothing but kept handy,
and when the engine whistled and Samuel seized
his sheep, the boss was waiting for him at the
door of the pen. The boss caught the hind legs
of the sheep, while Samuel held the fore legs.
Both pulled hard in dead silence, fell and got up
again, banged against posts, rolled over, got
tangled up so that it was hard to figure out which
was boss and which was sheep, and which was
Samuel, unravelled themselves, bumped against
shearers, upset the tar-boy and his bucket, fell and
rose again, and through it all each gripped the
sheep and said nothing. At length Samuel got
the boss and the mutton under way, and by a
supreme heave rushed them in a heap into his own
stand. Then he said politely: “Thanks, boss, I
can manage him now.” “Go on, then,” said the
boss, and the men of few words dropped the sub-
ject there.
The Argus has as good as stated that it
would be satisfied with the single chamber system
of State Government in Victoria if the Upper
House were'the sole House.
Ah, my Beloved, fill the Cup. You may
just as well fill it with the purest spirit available,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest stimulant and
best tonic known for mind or body. If your back
aches it may be your kidneys— Wolfe’s Schnapps
cures kidney diseases.*
The excuse for buying Government stores
abroad, and giving the work to outsiders instead
of to our own people, is generally that “ there was
no time to get the goods made locally.” With
locomotives, with dredges, and lately with the
£OOOO worth of infantry equipment (leather work)
required by the Australian Government, it is the
same invariable tale. There is always plenty of
time to get the goods made locally if the giving of
the order isn’t postponed to the last second, but it
seems to be left to the last second most of the
time. Then the cable become red-hot with
frenzied orders, and “there was no time to
get the work done locally.”
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
In May, 1900, there were 217 paupers
out of every 10,000 people in London ; in May,
1904, there were 238 ; in May, 1905, the figure had
gone up to 253. All over England it is stated
gloomily “ the present total of paupers is without
parallel in the records of the poor law statistics,”
and of London it is said : “Never before in the
history of the city have so many people been in
workhouses.” Freetrade has had three separate
experiences in England. First it fought against
comparative Freetrade in other countries and did
well; then it fought against low Protection and
did middling ; now it fights against High Protec-
tion, and finds its poor, busted superstition a very
thin rag to tie round its fiscal bones.
RETROSPECTIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, here’s the charming little spot
Where we were camped one Christmas hot,
To spend an easy holiday,
And, coming over, lost our way.
Observe this bower of maiden-hair
Decked all around with verdure rare ;
In this sequestered, calm retreat «
We buried all our gamey meat.
Behold the lovely, fern-bound creek,
How blossoms kiss its soft, cool cheek !
Here on its banks, in fairy walks,
We dug for worms with tomahawks.
And notice how, from ridge to ridge,
That fallen tree creates a bridge,
Just where the waters foam and spin
That’s where one night I tumbled in.
That grassy patch, so fresh and green,
Where flows the stream with smile serene,
Where starred clematis hangs about,
Is where our bunks were flooded out.
The clearing, over to the right,
Is where I raised a fox one night,
And firing from behind a bough,
I missed it and I shot a cow.
Ah, visiting - old scenes like these
Brings up once more sweet memories,
And makes us think, with feelinsrs glad,
Of that grand, joyous time we had.
VIC.
PERCIVAL C. COLE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. .Name and
address must -appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.M. : Letter much too long. The gist of it
can be found in the last two pages.... Subscriber : One
foot square and one square foot are the same size, though
not necessarily the same shape. A foot square is supposed
to be a square of 144 square inches. A square foot is 144
square inches of any shape. Two feet square are four
square feet; three feet square are nine square feet....
11.E.W. : The Theosophist’s creed hardly excites enough
interest to justify a hymn of that length... .Lai Lai :
“Minstrel” good idea, but verse too jogglesome....
VV. : “Race for Pelf ” is a rather dull moralising in verse.
W. J. : “ West of Tyrell Creek ” spoiled by one or two
bad lines 25.0. R. : Verses pretty good, but the fallen
girl is a subject that only extra good verse can excuse.
Vatu : The story of life has been told in sudden jerks
like that so very often A.G. : “ Awakening ” unsuit-
able. No address on manuscript Lotus: Pretty, but
only in a small way... .Norman N. : A collection of
very stragglesome verse.... Stella : “Parting Song” is
rather stilted in its air of artificial melancholy....
Page: t erse inferior. “Bill” played out W.M.Mac. :
No print-value H.A. : “ Wages” not bad, but too long
for its interest.... H.J.L. : Crude and inartistic....
Reuben B. :No literary quality... .Yahdof: Not well
handled R.S.M. : They don’t impress us favorably
Hubby : Not too bad, but of no use to us G.B.A. :
Ratlierclever, but out of our line.... Jimpan : The sup-
posed tree-picture from Murray cod’s inside is merely' a
plexus of small blood vessels.... Hindi: Both are pythons;
chief difference being- that the “carpet’s ” tail is prehen-
sile and the “ rock’s ”is not. The captive 22-footers you
refer to are almost certainly “ rocks.”... .M.F. (W.A.):
Information not precise enough to identify E.M.IJ. :
Too long and straggly... .Helen 11. : None of them quite
good enough.... J.McM. : Not enough meat on its bones.
... .Hugh S. : Well written, but'the prophetic dream is a
weary and fictional “ property.” R.M.L. : Quite unre-
markable. . ..H.B.P. : It doesn’t call for “red-hot cri-
ticism,” but all the same it doesn’t “get there.”....
Wanda : You don’t appear to have been aware of the
ludicrous anti-climax H.O’N. : You’ve overdone the
implicative style and landed in unintelligibility... .Nix :
“Life” is too big a subject for your muse... .Rhino :
Not in our line at a 11... .Smudge : Hardly worth a special
article, since the subject has been treated in various pars.
.... Blue-metal: It’s all very well to be rugged, but why
do you want to throw bricks at your friends? The plain
situation is that the J. C. Watson type of Labor leader
does something. The Tom Mann type only talks
nonsense. Which do you want, work or nonsense?....
JD.H. : What paper did you send that story to. Surely
not Tim Bulletin. .. .V.B. : It is a species of Lobelia, and
there is no special .evidence that the snake-bitten
“goanna” makes antidotal use of it... .C.I.R. : Good in
everything but form Gray Lenton : Pretty ideas, but
the sentiment slops over into mawkishness S.F.D.:
Clumsily handled.... Martha : No better than before.,..
Didymus: Form perfect; but lines 11 and 12 exist too
obviously for the sake of the rhymes Jack M‘K.:
Pretty lively ; but the idea has been often used before.
Saujan : It wouldn’t be of any use to us—thanks
A.P.A.: Disfigured by moral claptrap Jas.F.: Accurate
and conscientious, but monumentally dull H.G. :
“ Streaky ” has gleams of humor, but falls very flat at the
end R.C.E. : Scribble too ignominious to deal with.
... .T.O’D. : See B. 27/7/’O5, page 9....5.T.5. ; In a
modern ’phone the bell does not ring at the ringer’s end.
Your Adelaide ’phones must be holding back to keep
pace with the horse trams 1).H.R.; (1) The bee
symiposium buzzes no longer. When half a dozen stories
arrive every- day telling of the bees’ nest that was got at
with great trouble and then found to contain blow-flies,
it is time to call a halt. (2) Your postage-stamp design
“ with a man digging coal in one end, a man making a
cannon in another, a man tilling- a field in the other ; a
man making hats and clothing in the other ; the whole
surrounded by a coast line frowning with cannons and
fortresses and ships, with a huge cloud of smoke hanging
overhead, and a sword and a plough crossed in the centre,”
would be a handy thing when posting mastodons, but
wouldn’t there be need of something smaller for the con-
venience of those who want to. send a piano or an
encylopsedia or other trifle through the post ?... .Stony :
D.T.’s lie quite sufficiently exposed... .W.C.: Well, we’re
mean enough—and candid enough to confess the fact—
that we’re not at all glad that peace has been signed.
From a selfish Australian point of view the Japs
were much better engaged in fighting Russia than in pre-
paring to fight Australia Worker: Sorry unsuitable
....Nix: Hardly skilful enough.... Barbar : Not up....
A.J. W.: Interesting, but too long a time has elapsed since
the previous article to now traverse it... .H.C.H.E. : Ex-
cellent sentiments, but bad poetr.y. It’s almost a rule :
wicked sentiment, good poetry ; virtuous maxims, bad
verse... .Violet L. : Another pretty sentiment in poor
verse. The sentiment is violet; the verdict is—well, the
rest of your pen-name E.G.B. : Shows promise, but
your hand is not deft enough yet.... Frank M. : A fine
collection of mixed metaphors. “ Fate ” is successively
an archer, a lancer, a leech, a dog, an ironical
tyrant, a wag, and finally, a shooter of poisoned
arrows O.S. K. : Small beer, drawn through a pain-
fully thin tap M’Croyed : Fourpence fine to pay
on y-our goat story-—and it wksn’t worth it....
A.B. : “ Profane ” is often rightly used as meaning merely
‘ not sacred,” with no significance of blasphemy or
sacrilege. “The Mikado” score is “profane music” as
distinguished from “ The Holy City-,” which is “ sacred
music”; but that carries no imputation against “The
Mikado.” Jesuit: Unfortunately for your y arn, the
French do not use “Encore” as a shout of approval at
entertainments J.W.11. : Cheer up. . . >.ll. A. : Only
notable for your brilliant idea that the Speaker of a
House tries to “ cow the noisy babblings of members with
the mace.” Unhappily he doesn’t. Yet a well-wielded
mace, with a good spiky nob, would do much to improve
Parliaments Alphe : Bike verses can’t whirl on this
track W.M.E. : Looks like a puzzle. W.P.B-d.
accordingly- G.W.T. : “Prohibition” is poor verse
and poor logic. Man can get alcohol out of corn, rye,
barley-, wood, potatoes, sugar-cane, grapes, currants,
cherries, apples—almost anything, in fact. So why
assume that the existence of grapes is a proof that alcohol
is a thing of divine origin. You might as well say that
chairs prove that Providence intended us to liquor up...,
Unsuitable: E.K., C.S.K.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.W.B. : Declined. No name or address on picture
D.G. McD. : Poor picture ; impoverished joke Jack
H. : Two most hopeless works of alleged art... .Bax : In-
efficient F.G. : Two sketches received. Hardly think
y-ou have a turn for art. At all events, you have no pros-
pect without good training... .H.G.C. : Egg joke much
too ancient. No name or address on back of sketch
W.P. : “ Drought Time ” is a most unpleasant joke about
a corpse in the drinking- water, and the picture isn’t
much good J.A.K. : A chestnut of the ante-Noah
period.... Dido : Subject treated before.. ..Unsuitable :
L.D., Pat M., A.K., F.C.


RW. “ gRPTHEIR
T hold oux The. op
1 T r T\»ErsD3n»P *>
THE Op
looks
VErvx Er*\PTX
! ”
Trtfc white; -po'PULfTiof'* ir-» sooth pfR»cA
1$ mow lo C A^w ' f A^nS
Ton. THt "Powposg OT
OtFeMOINCr ITSG.U.P AsC*MMVT
TH£ '?£<\C£fuL
CooUt-
of»^—
ISAAC '
WAS E-jtCTCO TTvor-n
A^*^e. ,v ve>o<- the. other.
/- f»tHT . /\<sto WHEN THE.
and
n\inion out to
FOTX Hirv\ Me COUUO’NT
L. Be foon o .
" QooDHtSS <tSQ VM S
WHERE THE Poor
- FEuwOvy \S NOW »'
S-eoo M r tOOE-N.
'Have THE. Police
\ SEEN W |N> ?
m
/N-b •W- (aßlister 'HAS
KCUD a PICNjC- A\ Sa^pl-F?
-rne s-pec;cH£.s A^PU£
JOiCPH ; 1 Love
I AOroißt. YOU BOTh "
CHaT\I(LS • Joe, You ARE A GREAT mam//
YOU ARC A NtARveU.”
J/V'TCS : 7h€.RE. ARE ONWH Two
Pto-PLC, tr* thE. '(
GREATER THAN rv\e ,~-TK6.Y J
Ar *G Both here,;**
V\T >5 in
LONDON THAT THE
JAPANESE vueßf
n\or£ y
pT SERIOCSLX
" €.XHAUSTEO
"THAN WAS
SUPPOSED,
HEJSCe THC.
TREATY
x OF PEACE.
Tne /g* y
Victorian Statist x
/SUSTRAVIAS /
Population inovj
®L X C E.e.05 /_<. • o~cro • 0-0-0 •
THg
u * M£AV^IS • • 1 Ooouo'rsr
w & Tf »^ T / y VUCH u.orsqtJV "
IN AUSTRALIA AND ELSEWHERE.


fee. 4<\ s fiowb««« jntcT At r ctjbi^jof>t / ic,
TJilor (fo ussisW*)'.--
\ " 4-20 inch** • /
'Kcv CUt'Kc.—/
" ferity* youA betfir /
ajlow jiew mcljes i*»on»7
)tn . /
now ■you Kn«w!
1 j)ee<te yr% mtrclj
I Pa/SOn Fvie.ljerf' is rohhl*7p
jo>fn i*7
leaf's h> 'Nja
pltfilrs *
r .. a^
v % «.°fc r*v
"^NiK.
-n.
|f- Socialist"
jtjere v/o*Jd be blood-s W & civil w*r
(sf>e*Ker *T\ Wirrjuneh's
hieefi»Tg_l
Gfetf' GfieQ ! ” v
Climber of' QinrinfieKce is avfravi<4
■fte S«tref Bill bill
« dry uj> ajl Ifo wells of mnoc«i»rli ls |,j£ij][^
Qbl^shin^ly):— *' H«w cv>|
you dc&K i*ic -fo -
'fll'fct'’ Stone ?’
o >nr i mi Syoit€rs Ve still diligently se^rcl/n^
o^ r lt)t for Uhd for closer - !
5 X Ttyr fatfj of i^e
sta(te
sot< jJiVt' is strewn
Wilt -f'Ai luKe s '
/A n?»s'
ROUND ABOUT MELBOURNE.


A. SAUNDERS FOR PRESENTATIONS.
SPECIAL CONCESSIONS
made to RACE CLUBS, SOCIETIES, and INSTITUTES
SELECTION SENT ON APPROVAL.
SILVER,
£5.
$ •
2c , \o*
u
GOLD,
£7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Presentation Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
LEVERS, £5, £6, £7, £B. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25. Guaranteed for 4,5, 6,7,
and 8 years.
!
s
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Seal Leather WRITING CASE, Sterling
Silver Mounts, Fitted with every convenience, also
extra Russian Leather Blotting Pad, £3 ss. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
4 inch high, in 4 styles,
15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s eacn.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pour-Cup EGG FRAME and SPOONS, Pure Silver-
Plated, Handsomely Fluted and Ornamented, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 80s, 355, 40s, 455.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation TOILET SET, Solid Silver, comprising 2
Brushes, Mirror, and Comb, in Silk-Lined Leather Case,
£6. Other Styles, £2, £3, £4, £5, £lO, £l5, £25.
m
pi
mg
£2 5s
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation Ladies’ Solid Silver Hobnail Cut Glass
TOILET SET, comprising Hairpin Holder, Scent Bottle,
Puff Box and Pomade Box, in Silk-lined Leather Case,
£2 ss. Larger, £3 10s.
Larger,
£3 10s
/
1
:vi
£4 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Presentation 8-Day Cathedral Striking
Marble CLOCK, Jewelled, Visible Escapement, £4 10s.
Guaranteed for 5 Years. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £5 10s, £0 10s„ £7 10s, £lO, to £2O.
£4 10s
f
■nya
m
£5
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Fern Design, ®lt Lined, comprising
4 Pieces made expressly (to our order) by James Dixon and Sons, £5. Othe: Styles, £4 4s, £o os, & ,
£lO 10s/ £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £35, £4O, £5O.
£5
lUs 9
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION TROWEL, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver, Carved Ivory Handle,
Eeauti fully Chased, 12 inches long, in Silk-Lined Leather Case , £4 10s.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s.
For Sporting Men,
sdf
No. 6,
£8
A. SAUNDERS.
ZEISS PRISMATIC FIELD GLASSES, absolutely the
finest made, with Solid Leather Case and Sling com-
plete, No. 6, £8; No 8, £9.
LEMAIRES, 30s, £2,’ £2 10s, £2 15s, £4 10s, £5 10s.
No. 8
£9
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s or Gent.’s Leather TRAVELLING BAG, Silk
Lined, fitted with every convenience, Nickel Fittings.
Lnly’s £4, Gent.’s £4 ss. Solid Silver Fittings,
i 1 10s. Gent.’s, £5 10s, £6 lCs, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO 10s, £l2 10s, £l5.
m
A. SAUNDERS. 1
Combination SUPPER DISH, Biscuit, Butter, and
Cheese, with Servers, Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel
Silver, Satin Glass Lining, £3. Hand-Painted Carlton
Ware, without Servers, 12s Od, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
V
M
A. SAUNDERS.
lIOT WATER or MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, 355.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2.
SAUNDERS.
Presentation Stag INKSTAND and PEN BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Hobnail Cut-Glass Bottles, £2. Other
Styles, 30s, 355, £2 10s, £3, £3 ss, £l, £5.
iiiiimuinHii
in iimuiin
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation MANICURE SET, Solid Silver, Hand-
somely Pierced, comprising 8 Pieces (all oiiveij, in
Silk-lined Leather Case, £4 10s. Other Styles, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £4, £6.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817,
GEORGE-STREET.
Opposit®
Railway
Station.


s '{ //,. .
i
p\
KppA '
'l€*
% •: I V-
w
c
M
/m, ... m
WmM
©
s
0 *->
)Wn J. v '^ p *
•mv
“so do ir
JACK: “I SfIOKE CAPSTAN.”
BILL: “SO DO I. w; YOU CAN’T BEAT IT!”


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DA.VID STORES, & SONS’ ln Th| - ee Colors-BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
110 0011V1
Is the ONLY Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking OB
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Most Politicians need a box
To drown their ravings in,
The Poet wants a few hard knocks,
The “ Dead-beat” want some “ tin. ”
The Pillman makes a bold display
The public to allure.
But the man who sneezes night and day
Wants Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
sdf
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real good stamps, send to
FREP. HAGEN,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland Home Minister A irey threatens
to municipalise the milk industry as the only
effective means of preventing adulteration.
Barlow, in Queensland Leg. Council: “On
some of the sugar plantations of this State the
white employees are fed like dogs and housed like
hogs. ”
In South Africa it has been found neces-
sary to allow the white population to lay in arms
to protect their lives from the peaceful, harmless
Chinaman.
Like N.S.W., the Northern State is
having a little land trouble. Queensland’s matter
is microscopical by comparison, but yet exudes a
gamey flavor.
S. Australia is now engaged in the manu-
facture of its own locomotives. Ditto Victoria
and Queensland. But N.S. Wales is still repre-
sented by its unpatriotic press as too little
developed to get up to that manufacturing stage.
Australian defence is not being wholly
neglected. The Australian fleet, and the citizen
defence force, and the local manufacture of arms
and ammunition may still be far, far away, but
two imported guns are being mounted at Fre-
mantle.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers spoke for
hours in introducing the proposal to make
locally fiO engines—mostly a work of fitting to-
gether imported parts. How long would he
speak if it were a question of starting steel mills
to mako from local ores about 180,000 tons of iron
and steel per annum, as Canada does?
To Prime Minister Deakin, deploring the
Stinking Fish yarns about Australia in the
London papers, Josiah Thomas, by way of inter-
jection : “You ought to appoint a High Commis-
sioner.” And therein Thomas spoke the exact
truth. The need is for a man in London who will
battle for Australia—not merely for some State of
Australia.
N.S.W. Government has at last moved to
pay old age pensions through the post offices
instead of through the Bank of New South Wales
as heretofore, a saving of about £9OOO a year being
thus effected. Hitherto the fear that the Federal
Post Office would make a trifle out of the business
made the sour State Government adopt the far
more expensive device of paying through a private
bank.
THE BAYONET AND THE BOOR.
One clerical gentleman in Melbourne says it will be
necessary to bayonet the whole of Parliament to secure
Scriptural teaching in the State schools.
Well, this method has been very efficacious with
the little heathen abroad. Why not try it at
home?
Bent proposes to turn the Vic. Government
Labor Bureau into a General Employment Bureau
for private employers as well as public ones, with
a general registration fee of one shilling. That
would drive into some useful occupation a lot of
parasitic bleeders of the helpless unemployed. It
is certainly a “gross interference with private
enterprise,” but nobody has ever yet explained
what business private enterprise has to interfere
between an employer and his workman or woman,
or why it should charge a week’s wages for such
interference, as it usually does.
The Tasmanian As-
sembly has shown a proper
self-respect by fixing the
retiring age for civil ser-
vants at 70 years. In other
States we have the ab-
surdity of a law, enacted by
the aid of many legislators
of 00 and upwards, which
prohibits younger men from
serving in public offices on
the ground that they are
too old to be useful. An
aged Treasurer may seek
the vote and interest of a
younger brother who was
compulsorily retired
through old age from a
clerkship in the Treasurer’s
office several years previ-
ously. The Tasmanian
grey-beards have seemingly
been struck by the injustice
of this popular political
anomaly, and in Tasmania,
where venerables of nearly
90 protest against hasty
legislation and want Bills
hung up till they are 100, the anomaly was glaring
enough to strike anybody.
Another would-be seceder has arisen in
Queensland State Parliament—one Plunkett,
who, in all apparent seriousness, asked Premier
Morgan if he was going to take steps to sever the
State’s connection with the Commonwealth.
Morgan put on his most inscrutable countenance
and replied that he wasn’t going to start any
immediate revolution, and Plunk, wondered why
the members laughed.
Q. Treasurer Kidston’s success in bursting
up the (-reek fish monopoly in Brisbane is now
practically assured. He has got the two largest
local governing bodies to agree upon the subject,
and the other metropolitan councils have practi-
cally approved the scheme for a central market.
Kidston has a short Bill ready to trim the busi-
ness up legally, and, when it goes through, fisher-
men will get a fair deal.
A one clause Bill going through Q. Par-
liament provides that any alien’s application for a
hawker’s license is to be first submitted to the
Home Secretary, who may grant or refuse the
application. And while Q. keeps the proper sort
of Home Sec. that will be all rivht. But in view
of the fact that it may not always have the right
kind, it is much better to disqualify the colored
alien by Act of Parliament.
Premier Bent has got his State brick-
works proposal through the Victorian Parliament.
The Leg. Council tried to make trouble, but
the vote for the works was included in a
large Appropriation Bill, and the Council dared
not reject the whole measure, and could not
amend it. Thomas thus scores by a simple little
“tacking-on” device. The Tories were furious
that he did not bring down the brick-works pro-
posal in a separate Bill, but Thomas knew too
much of the ways of bears to try that.
Now that Premier Bent is at last moving
in the matter of building
electric tram-lines as
feeders to the railways,
the monopolistic Mel-
bourne Tramway Co.
raises a fearsome moan
about “ gross interference
with its rights,” “breach
of faith,” “lessening the
confidence of investors,” and
so forth. As a matter of
fact, there is in every Act
dealing with concessions to
the Tramway Co. a section
expressly authorising the
construction of as many
more tram-lines as may
be wanted by any person
or company, provided
the authority of Parlia-
ment is first obtained.
The long-headed co.
grabbed most of the
main arteries to and
from Melbourne city, but it
couldn’t grab all. Had an-
other private company
started to build an opposition
line on the proposed St.
Kilda route, from El wood to
St. Kilda station, the big
monopoly would have
fought it tooth and nail;
but, directly the
Government takes on
the contract, it wails
about a “breach of
faith ” and talks of
“compensation” for-
sooth !
It is reckoned that Free-
trade London will soon have 1000
motor busses running in its streets, 750 of
them made in Germany.
Thus Wilks, M.H.R. during the Home
Rule debate in the House of Reps.:—
The grievances of Ireland have nothing to do with us as
a nation.
Yet Wilks was returned to Parliament chiefly
because he said he was shocked at something that
happened in Ireland, over 200 years ago. Will he
now cease screaming about the Walls of Derry,
and devote himself to matters that have something
to do with us ?
N.S. W. Assembly has appointed one Select
Committee that is, at least, fairly justifiable. Its
object is to give parson Woolls-Rutledge a chance
to furnish particulars of his lie about that alleged
N.S.W. public servant who lost his position, and
couldn’t get back into the service till he joined the
R.C. church, whereupon he was promptly re-
appointed, and got a fine, large job at £lOOO a
year. The Woolls-Rutledge lie amounts to a
charge of gross corruption in the public service,
and so it is a public matter ; the usual Select
Committee to consider whether a ganger named
Jones was justified in speaking harshly to a main-
tenance man’named Smith, is in a different cate-
gory.
NERO FIDDLES WHILE ROME BURNS.
A symbol of Parliament —its jokes, jibes,
personal explanations, and want of progress.
The Russo-Jap treaty represents almost
the only case in history in which the losing party
presented the winner with an ultimatum cutting
down his huge demands almost to nothing, and
got it accepted. But apparently Japan’s funds
were getting low; it had lost tremendously in
men ; after 18 months fighting it hadn’t driven
the Russians back even into their own territory,
and it was still 5000 fearful muddy miles to
Moscow.
The Anglo-Japanese treaty has been re-
newed, on an extended basis. According to the
cabled information, the Jap now guarantees to
•protect Britain in India, and to help to maintain
British influence in Persia. There was a time
when Britain asked protection from no one, and
never dreamed of requesting any Asiatic to guar-
antee its territories, but things have changed, not
so much with the people, perhaps, as with the
“ governing classes.”
How high Japan’s ambitions are may be
guessed at from the fact that even the ingrained
habit of reverence for the Mikado, and the fero-
cious press censorship, couldn’t prevent some
papers offering the insulting suggestion that half-
mast flags should be hung out as a sign of grief at
the acceptance of the Russian peace terms. The
chief Monkey may be a gorilla of moderation, but
the great multitudinous Monkey isn’t necessarily
the same variety of ape.
When the Q. State estimates are on, there
will be wigs on the green over Tozer’s salary.
“ Stormy Petrel ” Lesina vows he will fight to the
last against the old slanderer’s re-appointment,
also that 24 others are with him on that point.
When Tozer was in Queensland recently he got a
very cold shoulder indeed from Morgan and his
colleagues, but Horace has a thick hide, and he
pocketed the affront with as much grace as possible.
Besides, the apostle of Stinking Fish knows that
£1250 per annum is not to be despised.
Gundagai (N.S.W.) Political Labor League
has passed a resolution calling upon the Labor
party to expel from its ranks any Labor M.L. A.
found to have received fees from leaseholders for
services as a land agent. Public life, it is held in
Gundagai, must be reformed. Meanwhile, muni-
cipal life in Gundagai is in a state of chaos. The
remnant of the ratepayers have struck, on the
ground that no effort is made to collect arrears
from defaulters, and those who have hitherto
paid up regularly decline to carry the whole bur-
den any longer. The Municipal Council rarely
meets, and the salaries of municipal employees
are three months in arrears. The Gundagai
P.L.L. can find matters to reform pretty near its
own door.
N.S.W. Agent-General Coghlan has been
writing to the Statist in refutation of a state-
ment that- the commercial tone of Australia is
very low clown. It would have been almost better
to have left that matter alone. In a country where
the merchants rise so extensively to protest
against a Secret Commission Bill, because it will
prevent them swindling those who trust to their
honesty, and against the Commerce Bill, which
simply prohibits a merchant selling goods under
false and lying pretences, commercial morality
has got down about as low as it can get.
If all the rest of Australia were as morally rotten
as its bumptious traders and importers, the com-
munity might almost as well give itself up as a
bad job.
“ Alba’s ” view :
The Jap., after all, is only an amateur bull-dog, some-
what slack of jaw. Look at his magnificent first three
rounds, his perfect strategy, equipment and diplomacy !
His very temperament and elan blinded the Continental
newsmongers. The illiterate Colossus of the North
was a joke; no one saw elan or strategy in him ;
there was only the old limp and the snarl,
and the infinite capacity for sitting down hard
and paying nuffin’. “ Arrest the brute,” cried the
top-note strategists. But on August 28 the Mikado and
his councillors had a visitation from the gods; and
the sword of ice, that cut Napoleon small at Moscow,
entered their vitals. And they wept. There was no
money, no wine, and a vast hlizzard-rent continent to
cross'; large spaces wrapped in Polar silence and impreg-
nable frosts. Alas for the gentlemen whose feet are sore,
and whose pockets are full of empty hands ! But history
will remember their Banzais.
Attorney-General Isaacs gave an admirable
definition of the principles of his Secret Commis-
sion Bill, when the Melbourne Chamber of Com-
merce sent along a deputation asking him to let
butter swindles and the like continue. If A hires
B to make the best bargain possible with C on
A’s account, B can take any bribe he likes from C
to betray A’s interest, provided he lets A know
that he is also paid by C, and to what extent. If
A doesn’t object all is well. If he does object,
and thinks that an agent who isn’t paid by _C will
probably make a better bargain for him with C,
then he can find another agent. If the trans-
action is clean enough to be made known the Bill
won’t interfere with it; if it is too dirty to be
revealed, then it should be made illegal, and
Isaacs intends to have it made illegal.
S. A. is hustling a little under its new Labor
Government. It proposes, when the present
Governor’s term expires, to endeavor to do away
with the expensive and useless imported State
Excellency. It has an idea of giving the long-
paralysed transcontinental railway—which now
ends in a shrieking desert at Oodnadatta —a shove
along to the more fertile regions of the M‘Donnell
Ranges. Also, it has on hand a workable Factories
Act,"a new land-settlement scheme, a measure for
increasing the graduated land-tax on large estates,
and a Bill to reduce the Legislative Council fran-
chise. Further, a private member has intro-
duced a Bill for the abolition of cigarettes.
Melbourne Argus hopefully prints a
decision by Justice Anglin of Canada that
the Dominion has no power to deport an undesir-
able, arguing that therefore the Commonwealth
has no right to deport Kanakas and may be pre-
vented from doing so by the Imperial Govern-
ment. The poor old lady will be sadly dis-
appointed if she holds to that hope of keeping her
beloved nigger. Apart from the fact that Mr.
Anglin’s decision is not yet tested by the
Canadian Full Court, the power to deport
Kanakas from Australia is expressly given in a
statute which has received Imperial approval and
is, so far as one can judge, absolutely unchallenge-
able.
According to the petition of the Employers’
Federation—
The Union Label is a weapon which may be used to
effect an unlawful discrimination against non-union
workers.
Which might be put the other way—
The absence of the Union Label is a weapon which will
he very handy as a means of effecting a discrimination
against union workers.
It is simply that one side has the courage of its
opinions and the other hasn’t. The Democratic
party reckons that people on the whole prefer
union goods, and it is willing to back its. opinion
by stamping its goods, so that if its idea is wrong
the public can refuse to buy these goods, and thus
burst up unionism. The Tory party says that the
mass of the population regards unionism as tyranny,
and would rather buy non-union goods, but it
doesn’t want to back its opinion by letting the
people know which are non-union goods. It says
the peoffie would rush non-union goods if it could
distinguish them, but it hates to let the people
have a chance to rush.
A STATUE.
The Morning Post warmly approves of the idea of a
Federal supervision over the liabilities of the Australian
States, and of the non-borrowing policy favored by the
Federal Labor Party. These proposals, it adds, will have
the general sympathy of the public in the motherland.
Not for many years have the material prospects of Aus-
tralia been so promising.— Cablegram.
Bent Thomas is straightening himself out
of late. The monopolistic Tramway Co. had lieen
talking “compensation” because His Brighton to
St. Kilda electric railway was to run past the
terminus of its line straight to the city and
Thomas was annoyed at its impudence :
The Esplanade line was not in the original Tramway
Act, and it was only when the company found what a
good thing it had missed that it got an Amending Act,
and thereby took £20,000 a year from the St. Kilda rail-
way line. Did they offer compensation to the State ? . . .
Thev talked of the Tramway Co.’s rights. . . . His troubles
what the lawyers said. Did they mean to say we were to
have no more communication except what the Tramway
Co. provided? . . . He was getting tired of these “rights.”
What would the Tramway Co. say if Parliament exercised
its right and made the company give penny sections?
The Tramway folk here shivered. There is still
plenty of time for Parliament to carry out the
manifest intention of the Tramway Act and “re-
vise ” the fares to suit travellers better and the
company’s dividends less.


We
guarantee
the Victor
Pianos to
stand all
climates
to give the
greatest
wear.
You can-
not wish
for a better
guarantee.
Can you ?
Catalogues Free.
Old Pianos tatten
in Exchange.
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
36
Accordeons
©« © ©
<a> a
mmM
i
7®
OK
*
We have the finest
selection in Australia of
these very popular instru-
ments. Prices are cut to
the lowest possible figure
at which a really firSi-
elass article can Le
supplied.
Catalog-ues and prices
are yours for the asking.
v?
Palir\g'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
27
PALING’S
pstk *
sd
Complete with Bow, Case, Set of
Extra Strings and Resin, Post
Free to any Post Town in N. S. W.
School Yiolin - £1 1 0
Student’s Model 111 6
Orchestral Yiolin 2 2 0
Artist Model- -330
StradiyariusModels 5 0
Lupot Model- » 10 10 0
/
Collin-Mezin’s
Yiolins - » 15 15 0
Louis Otto’s Cele-
brated Yiolins 20 0 0
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
53
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
a
T\|l
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 George Si:.
(ovp. Hunter St.)
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Melbourne
FIRST PRIZE
IN THE
8-hour^
ART UNION.
WHO WANTS IT?
£5OO for Is.
SECOND PRIZE, value £lOO
THIRD „ „ £3O
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 23th.
Someone's Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Early,
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
" GRAND PRIX ” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH OILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
Making Money
I was born on a Maine farm. X have made some
great successes in business. My greatest through
Co-operation.
I took $1,500 (.£306:2:6) capital, supplied by
Farmers, Women, Physicians, Clerks, Clergymen,
etc., in Belfast, Maine, and in an honest, but very
profitable business, earned and paid them through
BELFAST NATIONAL BANK, $5,000 (£1,020:8:2)
in Cash dividends in the first six months, $25,000
(£5,102:0:10) in cash dividends within the next
year, and in 18 months I paid them in round
numbers $330,000.00 (£67,346:19:2) CASH.
Every 4s. Earned £ 44:17s
This is HISTORY. Beads
like a fairy tale but it is
TRUE. I made poor
people rich. They helped
me earn the riches. Just
read that over again. I
had $1,500. I earned
and paid my stockholders
$330,000 in cash in 18
months. Every stock-
holder got their share.
That’s my Way of doing
business. You must be-
lieve this statement is
TRUE,for, if I were lying,
I wouldn’t tell you the
place where I earned the
money, and the BANK
where it was paid.
I have learned the great
Value of the right kind of
co-operation, learned how
to make money fast in an
honest, profitable busi-
ness from which millions
are made every year.
I now have a new busi-
ness of the same kind,
only my field is the World.
It is incorporated under
the laws or the State of
Maine and the U. S. Gov’t. The Stockholders are
absolutely protected from any liability. They are
safe guarded by law. My plan one of extended co-
operation. Stockholders everywhere who can give
me information and lend their INFLUENCE. The
dividends must be large.
I already have 4,000 stockholders in the TJ. S.,
Canada, England, Cuba, Mexico, Sandwich Islands,
Gibraltar, etc. I want a few more. The shares
are going fast. You can invest 4s. or £lOO.
Monthly payments, if you wish. It will be safe
and we will make it grow. This is no gambling
or “shady” scheme. It’s legitimate business.
You will he treated squarely and honestly.
I place 30 years of untarnished business record
behind that statement. I only ask you in your
own interest to INVESTIGATE. You shall have all
the Proof you want. References, Bankers, Bus-
iness Men, Church and Public Officials, etc. Send
your address on a postal card. It will pledge
you to nothing. It may mean your fortune. I
will send a 24-page book,
h Guide to Full Pockets,”
FREE. I will pay the postage. Don’t be “A Brother
to the Ox.” Stop plodding. Lift your head long
enough to ask me to prove every statement in this
ad. This is your opportunity, don’t miss it. Don’t
Wait if you want something betterthanyouhavegot.
E. F. Hanson, 142-160 W. Madison Street,
Chicago, 111., U. S. A.
E. F. Hanson, Ex-Mayor
of Belfast, Me,.U.S.A.
Ex-Pres. B. & M. L. R. R.
Missing- Friends.
KEANE, THOMAS, last seen at Mary-
borough, Queensland, 10 years ago; sup-
posed to have gone to Sydney and worked with a
contractor named Neville ; thought to have been
in Plague Hospital, Sydney, in year 1900. Father,
Michael Keane, of Derould, Kilramona, Co. Clare,
Ireland, inquiring. Anybody knowing where-
abouts, or evidence of death, please communicate
with Gavan Duffy and King, Solicitors, National
Trustees’ Building, 125 Queen-street, Melbourne.
TTF THOMAS JOHNSON SANDEfiSON,
J son of Isaac Sanderson, will communicate
with The Trustees, Executors & Agency Co..
Ltd., of 412 Collins Street, Meleouene, he will
hear of something to his ad vantage.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
'M'EWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPlT,Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LAftSGHAIVI
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of tile Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comtor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBIMS,
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Boaaonsfiald Parade.
Sl\ CtSLDA.
'|UIE Largest ana Lest-Appointed Boarding-house in
tlie Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, j-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
liilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Ilotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
I‘lie Biuletisi Story Book:
By Si.-cy BuluhS Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, Is. 6d.
TO BE SOLD,
"PURSUANT to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
J- Queensland, made in an action MURPHY and
another v. MURPHY, with the approbation of Mr.
Justice Real, b.v Messrs. Kennard & Co. and Messrs.
Scholefield & Godsall, of Toowoomba, Auctioneers in con-
junction, the persons appointed by the said Judge, at the
Auction Rooms of the said Messrs. Scholefield & Godsall,
at Toowoomba, in the State of Queensland,
On Thursday, 28th September, 1905,
AT 12 O’CLOCK NOOM,
certain freehold and leasehold lands known as
“ LISELICAN,” situate near the town of Pittsworth, cn
the Darling Downs, in the State of Queensland, together
with the plant and stock thereon, and comprising the
following:— •
(а) “ The Homestead Portion,” containing about 5919
acres of freehold land, with house, woolshed and shearers’
huts thereon, situate in the parish of Domville, county of
Derby, permanently watered, and being the best descrip-
tion of box country, with all timber dead. All securely'
fenced, and subdivided into paddocks fenced with wire-
netting and other improvements.
(б) “St. Mullins,” situate in the parish of Yandilla,
county of Aubigny, containing about 2655 acres of free-
hold land, fronting the Condamine River for about 3 miles,
with reservoirs, windmills, and hut thereon, soil of a rith
black alluvial nature suitable for lucerne, and all securely
fenced, with other improvements.
(c) “Pine Paddock,” containing about 2090 acres of
leasehold land, situate in the parish of Domville, county of
Derby, securely fenced.
(d) Piece of freehold land adjoining “ Pine Paddock ”
aforesaid and situate in Turallin Township, parish of
Domville, county of Derby, containing half an acre.
The whole of the abovementioned properties are within
short distance of one another and are commonly referred
to collectively as “ J.iselican Lands.”
(e) PLANT, House and Kitchen, Furniture, Tools, Wag-
gonette, Drays, and Harness. STOCK, upwards of 74
head of mixed cattle, 2396 mixed sheep, and 21 head of
mixed horses.
Also certain freehold lands known as “ GRANGE
FARM,” situate near Toowoomba, on the Darling Downs,
in the parish of Drayton, county of Aubigny, together
with the Plant and Stock thereon.
This farm contains about 80 acres of rich agricultural
land, the greater part of which is under lucerne, securely
fenced, and sub-divided into paddocks ; and house, barn,
stables, stockyard, orchards, windmill, etc.
; PLANT, consisting of house and kitchen, furniture,
tools, agricultural implements, lucerne (about 60 tons),
buggy, dray, springcart, and harness.
And STOCK, consisting of 2 head of horses and 2 cows.
The Liselican Lands, with plant and stock thereon, and
Grange Farm, with plant and stock thereon, will first be
offered for Sale separately as going concerns.
Particulars and conditions of sale may be had gratis of
Messieurs HAMILTON & HAMILTON, of Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba, in the State of Queensland-, Solicitors, of
Messieurs KENNARD & CO., of Toowoomba aforesaid,
Auctioneers, and Messieurs SCHOLEFIELD & GODSALL,
of Toowoomba, aforesaid, Auctioneers, and at the place of
sale. -
Dated this thirty-first day of July, 1905.
[L.S.] VV. A. DOUGLAS,
Registrar.
HAMILTON & HAMILTON,
Solicitors for Plaintiffs,
RUTHVEN ST., TOOWOOMBA.
Town Agent:
T. B. HUNTER, Solicitor,
39 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE'
THE LAST OF SIX
Trice 6d. Post. Free.


A few years ago a roadway connecting
Rushcutters’ Bay and Paddington was opened
with a flourish of rhetorical trumpets by the Jaw-
bone Warrior as Neild Avenue; and now the
irreverent inhabitants thereabouts call it Sewer
Road, and the greatness of its origin is forgotten.
Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13a. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS fro 115.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
THl5—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with*
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • * 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,46 L—assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 45,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Bankofjlortii Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager—
J. P. Canny.
Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
(Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled... .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f
£700,000
£370,000
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : K. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors—Sydney : lion. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessoi*, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, T). Clynb ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Fari.ane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth. A. W.
Farqdhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
SALB
OV
Bank of New Zealand
Forfeited Shares,
IN LOTS.
fl VENDERS are invited by the Bank of New Zealand for
1 the PURCHASE of THIRTEEN THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY-TIIREE (13,783) FORFEITED
ORDINARY SHARES in the Capital of the Bank of New
Zealand.
Conditions and form of Tender may be obtained at any
Branch of the Bank. Each Tender must be accompanied
by a Deposit of £1 per Share for Each Share applied for,
in the form of a Bank Draft on Wellington, New Zealand,
payable to the order of the General Manager of the Bank,
and must also be enclosed in an addressed to
the General Manager of the Bank of New Zealand, Wel-
lington, New Zealand, and marked “ Tender for Shares,”
and must reach the Head Office of the Bank in Wellington,
on or before 3 o’clock on the 17th day of OCTOBER, 1905.
The highest or any tender will not necessarily be accepted.
All Shares carry the right to any dividend hereafter
declared for any period subsequent to 31st March, 1905.
By order of the Board,
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Wellington, 21st June, 1905.
DEAFNESS CURED,
f
THE AUROPHONE,
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the RELIEF and CURE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address:
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
II Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
ROTHWELL’S m
Only Address: EDWARD ST., BRISBANE.
The Best Value 8 6 TERAS HAT
in the Commonwealth. 9/6 post paid. All Shades.
BRISBANE’S BIG HAT STORE.
[2
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 2Sth OCTOBER.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 25th NOVEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ril Try /t."
The Only Certain
Uoustache Producer.
gapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
80LK AGENTS.
56%
TktßttuU.
CRAIG &. AITKEN, N.s •W. Barber's Supplj
House, 654 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
Uondon .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
sdf
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
6th OCTOBER,
AERIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FAllES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O O S A. WIO S.S. Co. A. and. A. LIU E.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
SOUTH
m, SEA
«4r
CRUiSES -
To miss the sickly end of the Winter,
and at the same time enjoy a Holiday Cruise
through the most out-of-the-way corners of
the Pacific, you must book for a 50-day Round
Trip per the “Moresby,” sailing 7th September.
Cost, £25.
BURNS, PHILP & GO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
1
WM
■ ■
~? r
Banking. Public Companies, &e.
Upon - all - Classes
Security.—-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS. v
of
sd
fsd
•aamnoosia
siiia
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-'w.
fflont depeteD.»si|.G°->litd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMITVIJ. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
£698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital - .. £2,000,000
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office-HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
OCT. 2, OCT. 30, NOV. 27.
Geography made Canada the
Natural Route Between Aus-
tralia and the Motherland.
There are Six Ports of Cali be-
tween Sydney and Vancouver,
the Islands of the Pacific being
Visited.
It is Acknowledged the World Over
that no other Country Compares with
Canada for the Grandeur and Variety
of its Scenery.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
Illustrated Pamphlets furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—rcauses roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin
and card tricks), The Surprise Packet, or Nerve
Strengthener (a good joke), the Wizard Fish
(gives the definition of your character—very
superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to air-
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
C. Stratmann’s *
FINE....
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETHEATS
Made on the
Premises
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
7
S.S. Marloo, September
S.S. Kanowna, Sept. 27.
BRISBANE, 'l
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Innamincka, Sept. 9.
S.S. Marloo, September 16.
Rest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will bed.snatched MONTHLY as follows: -
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, Inaia, Omna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengersfor London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Olticest
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TIIK . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,085,000 0 G
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,085,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Coiien, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Katbr, M.L.C Deputy -Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humi-hery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Hank of Neiv So at It Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,400,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,400,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie. Esq.
The Hon. Chas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the W T est Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo. Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
NITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,0100,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks. ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.


THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
♦
BALANCE SHEET, 28th FEBRUARY, 1905.
LIABILITIES.
Capital ..£4,500,000
Less : Reserve
Liability.. 3,000,000
Paid-up .. £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund—lnvested
in the names ot trus-
tees—as per contra,
£1,000,000 ; not specifi-
cally invested, £55,000 1,055,000 0 0
Balance of undivided pro-
fits 102,508 9 0
„ ~. £2,657,508 9 0
Circulation .. .. 458,740 0 0
Deposits ('including' in-
scribed stock deposits) 16,869,958 1 3
Bills payable and other
liabilities (including re-
serves held against
doubtful debts.. .. 1,851,561 15 6
19,180,259 16 9
£21,837,768 5 9
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances ..£2,798,463 15 6
Bullion and advances on bullion .. .. 270,971 7 0
Money at call and short notice in London 1,365,000 0 0
Investments:—
Reserve Fund: Con-
sols, £650,000; local
loans (Imperial Gov-
ernment stock),
£200,000; national
war loan, £150,000 . .£1,000,000 6 0
Other Investments: —
Consols and other
stocks of, or guaran-
teed by, the Im-
perial Government,
£201,74935.6d.; India
Government sterling
stocks, £246,580 ;
colonial Government
and municipal stocks
and debentures,
£135,693 13s. 2d. .. 584,022 16 8
1,584,022 16 8
Balance of remittances and drafts in tran-
situ and bills receivable at London office 3,186,195 4 8
£9,204,653 3 10
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and in London 11,957,220 3 7
Bank premises and pro-
perty in the colonies ..£562,538 9 4
Less: Appropriation
from profits .. .. 10,000 0 0
552,538 9 4
London Leasehold premises 142,304 19 4
Reserve against same and
accrued interest.. .. 18,948 10 4
123,356 9 0
£21,837,768 5 9
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of Undivided Profits on 31st August, 1904 £lO2 134 18
Less : Dividend—January, 1905
r, Leaving a Balance of
fronts of the past Half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful
debts “
75,000 0 0
£27,134 18 2
Less :
£236,286 17 S
Remuneration to the Local Directors, and Salaries and Allowances
to the Colonial Staff ~ _ _ 533 ig 10
General Expenses in the Colonies, including Rent, Taxes,
Stationery, &c 29,326 19 6
Remuneration to the Board of Directors and Auditors, Salaries of
London Office Staff, Rent, Taxes, Stationery, and General
Bx P? nse s 16,097 10 2
Income tax
4,950 0 0
-£131,913 6 5
Deduct :
Appropriation in aid of Bank’s Guarantee and Provident Funds
Appropriation to write down Bank Premises and Property in the Colonies
Transfer to Reserw 1
rve Fund
Balance of Undivided Profits at this date
..£4,000 0 0
..10,000 0 0
..15,000 0 0
£104,373 10 10
£131,50S 9 0
29,000 0 0
£102,508 9 0
ARTHUR FLOWER, )
W. B. PERCEVAL,
W. R. MEWBURN, [
H. P. STURGIS, J
London, 12th July, 1905.
-Directors.
A. 0. WILLIS, Manager,
O. M. 0. SHANNON, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisionsof “ The Companies Act 1900,” we certify that all our requirements as Auditors
have been complied with.
We report that we have verified the Cash, Investments, Bills of Exchange, and other Assets in London, and have
naa Recess to the Accounts sent to London from the various Branches in the Colonies, and having- examined the same,
ana the Books and Accounts of the London Office, we are of opinion that the above Balance Sheet is a full and fair
Balance Sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs as
shown by the Books of the Company.
London, 12th July, 1905.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHIjNTNEY,
Chartered Accountants.
Auditors.
A WORLD FAMOUS
RUPTURE CURE !
The Dr. J. A. Sherman Method of Curing Rupture is known
all over the world by the general public and the medical pro-
fession to be the only radical cure for Rupture.
TIEEIE]
DR. J, A. SHERMAN RUPTURE CURE
I will undertake to refund money to ANYONE who is not
satisfied with my treatment after the expiration of one month.
lam the only Specialist in Australia making this offer. I
especially invite the cases of those who found other treat-
ments to fail.
If you will call at my Consulting Rooms I will show you
facts and figures that prove, beyond all doubt, that if you are
ruptured, the Sherman Method is the only treatment that
will permanently cure you.
TWO BOOKS ON RUPTURE—FREE.
Fill in this form and post it to me. I will then send
you two books on Rupture.
Name
Address
I TREAT
BOTH SEXES.
HOURS—Daily (Sundays excepted) from 10 a.m. to 12.30, 2.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
EXTRA HOURS—Tuesday and Friday Evenings, from 7.30 to 9. Saturdays, 10 a.m. to
12.30 noon.
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia,
St. Aubyns, 82 Hunterst., Sydney.
fsd
'Wrt&SSmL'
For Infant Feeding
it is Perfect.
UNSWEETENED
It does not
u thicken. It
f
is absolutely pure. It is Sterilized.
As Supplied to H.B.M.
Sk Navy & Army.
r __ FOSSELL & CO., 1/TD.. _
t .* .U, London, England. Mm y/
s®/« Agents for New South Wales f-BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.
The Genuine Duplicated!
UNSURPASSABLE
IN BRILLIANCY.
Ml//,
m
m
a®
920
3-Stone Gypsy Ring, 18/-
PAY US A VISIT OR SEND
A TRIAL ORDER and YOU
WILL BE CONVINCED.
Prices ranging from 6s. to 18s. “®Ji
5-Stone Princess Ring,
936
Tiffany Engagement
Ring, 6/-
Small Marquise Ring,
12/-
600
Double Cluster Ring-,
18/-
>5!
Single Stone Belcher Ring, 18/-
DO NOT CONFOUND
Our Diamonds with so called Rhinestones,
Montana, Brazilian, Alaskan, or other Imi-
tation Diamonds, they are simply manufac-
tured from chemicals or glass. OURS are
the ONLY stones that have been dis-
covered that
CANNOT BE DETECTED
from the genuine diamond. The Mountings
are heavy Gold shell, exquisitely finished, and guaranteed
to last 20 years.
The Proof of our Assertions
is the enormous and ever-increasing trade we are doing. Cus-
tomers are astounded at the BRILLIANCY, LUSTRE, and
LIFE in our Diamonds. We have hundreds of other designs
which space does not permit us to illustrate, and it is only by
personal observation you can realise their
Exquisite Beauty.
Prices ranging from 6s. to 13s.
Mk" 4
Single Cluster Ring,
12/-
Round Belcher, 6/-
906
Solitaire Stud, 6/-
m
ns
nth
874
Fancy Brooch, 10/-
Mail Department.
We have the largest Mail Department in the State devoted
exclusively to our Country Clients. All Orders are executed
the day they are received. We know you will be
More Than Satisfied,
you will be DELIGHTED with the goods sent.
Address all Orders care of Department “B.”
REMEMBER, you send us an order with the distinct
understanding that if the goods are not as represented
Your Money will he Refunded
Heart and Lily Brooch, 18/-
Further, if you do not
like the design write
us and we will change
it for another
UNTIL YOU
ARE SATISFIED
Small Sun Burst, 12/-
871
Drop Earrings, 6
MF" Prices ranging: from 6s. to 18s.
Sun Ray Brooch, 14/-
///
907
Solitaire Scarf
Pin, 6/-
OUR GUARANTEE
READ THIS : We guarantee each and
every stone to retain its brilliancy for
ever, and the mountings to give perfect
satisfaction. We will give £2OOO to
any charitable institution if it can be
shown that we ever refuse to replace a
stone that does not give satisfaction.
sdf
Single Star Locket, tB/-
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
can be washed and cleaned like
Ordinary Diamonds, and they
so nearly resemble them that
Even experts have been Deceived.
'O3 OIIOIdNO SOIUM
100 KING STREET, SYDNEY
52 Swanston St., MELBOURNE


SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strife
Mattalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. NIOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE.
n
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION,
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdf
Pimples and Boils
Caused by Impure Blood. Db. Morse’s
Indian Boot Pills Drive the Poisons out
of the System.
Pimples and boils are more or less painful and
irritating, and are always a great disfigurement
to the skin. Look in the mirror, you are ashamed
of your face. You cannot hide them with powder
and puff; they stand out most provokingly, and
you fancy that everyone looks at that particular
spot. It is a standing advertisement that your
blood is out of order. The liver and kidneys are
not acting properly. They are not filtering the
impurities from the blood, and Nature is exercising
her prerogative and throwing off a portion of the
impurities through the eruptions. A most incon-
venient mode, you say, but you are responsible for
neglecting Nature in her other channels. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills stimulate the liyer and
kidneys to thoroughly remove all impurities from
the blood. They are a perfect blood-purifier,
making it rich and red. They are a, positive
and permanent cure for all diseases arising from a
disordered stomach, liver and kidneys, and are an
infallible remedy for constipation, biliousness,
sick headaches, piles, pimples, boils, skin diseases
3>nd female ailments. Packed in amber bottles,
and sold throughout Australasia.*
sd
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Australian Rugbvites met the first All-
Maoriland team in Tahuna Park, Dunedin, Saturday - last.
It was the only decent football ground that wasn’t under
water, and 36 hours of Dunedin’s own special brand of
downpour had made even it very boggy. There was a
cold drizzle, and a dreary wind howled straight down the
ground, and helped the Australians in the first spell. In
spite of the wind and rain in their faces the Maorilanders
attacked strenuously, and smothered in an amazing
manner, and at half-time the score was 3 all. When
the Maoi danders got the wind and the rain behind them
they started out in earnest, but the Australians made a
much better defence than was anticipated. In the scrums
they - seemed to be able to hold their own, but the drib-
bling charges of the Maorilanders went through them,
and the game ended in a win for Maoriland by 14 to 3.
It was bad enough, but not so bad as was anticipated.
* • * *
The hardest work clone in Sydney just now is
playing Rugby football these summery Saturday after-
noons. Last week-end, whole teams threatened to melt
away, and the tired feeling was much in evidence. South
Sydney still leads the competition with 27 points, and
Glebe is second with 26. There doesn’t seem to be much
chance of the position being altered in any case. South
Sydney has still to play Balmain, which will not make a
decent killing, and North Sydney, which has no possible
human hope of holding its own against the Southerners.
Glebe, on the other hand, has to meet the formidable
Newtown Club, and anything may happen. It has also
to meet Sydney District, but the City has no hope. How-
ever, the crux of the position is that neither North Sydney
nor Balmain has a hope against South Sydney, and, un-
less someone can down S. Sydney - , Glebe is out of it; so,
under these conditions, and considering the difficulty of
getting playing grounds, it is possible that the round may
be declared closed, with South Sydney premiers for the
year, without further cruelty to animals.
* < . * #.
As previously indicated there were signs of
apoplexy among the Rugbyites on Saturday - afternoon.
The match that was looked forward to was that between
Glebe and University - , but the heat and the weight of the
Glebe forwards broke the athletic y'oung gentlemen from
the Uni. right up, and they were bowled over, trampled
on, and rubbed in the dust, Glebe wiping out all former
defeats with the crushing score of 31 points to 11. The
rest of the clubs played more or less half-heartedly in the
warm sp:ing weather, and public interest seemed dead
and cremated, and its ashes bottled. Western Suburbs
downed Sydney by 13 to 3, and North Sydney went under
to Balmain by 6to nil; and out at Erskineville Newtown
rolled over Eastern Suburbs by - 16 to nil.
* • * *
By its defeat of South Melbourne, on Saturday,
Carlton reft from the red-and-white all hope of com-
peting in the semi-finals of Vic. League Football; these
lie now with Collingwood and Carlton, and ’Roy and
Essendon —winners to play off. The whole eight clubs
play next Saturday, but to four of them it doesn’t
matter a land-agent’s reputation who wins or loses.
South’s downfall was a rout, half-time scores being
Carlton 5 goals 13 behinds to South’s 3 goals 2 be- .
hinds ; finish 92 points to 49. Some 24,000 spectators,
expecting a close struggle, suffered the heavy showers
up to half-time, then anathematised all and sundry
and went home. The heavy red-and-whites could
make no show against Carlton’s lighter, trickier,
and smarter men, and when they finally tried
to rely on main force the game became a mere
rough,’ unscientific scramble. ’Roy sent a strong
team down to Geelong, which club, having
already lost all chance, skirmished up a number of
supposed second-raters —and was considerably surprised at
winning, by 68 points to 66 ; but then ’Roy had no induce-
ment to “ burst itself.” The day previous the League had
perpetrated the pleasing joke of suspending a South
play - er for one week for striking an opponent during a
match ; and in the Richmond v. Footscray Association
game the umpire had to stop the game twice while he
rebuked players who imagined they were in a 24ft. ring
instead of on a football ground. (A dirty left is always a
desirable thing in an umpire—his decisions may not
be too sound, but they are much better respected.)
In the Association “North” still leads, while Rich-
mond, Williamstown and “ West” strenuously endeavor
to keep within coo-ee, with a view to getting in the semi-
finals. By the way, the brick combine seems to have
made those articles so scarce around Preston —where the
works are—that the barrackers have no handy means of
slaying the local players. Preston has so far won one
game out of 17, and on Saturday erected the noble score
of 7 points against Williamstown’s 75. But possibly the
scarcity of employed brickmakers is responsible for the
scarcity of footballers. Ikey Mo. fills a fair portion of his
book with football wagers just now ; writer took 2 to 1
against South on Saturday, and was sorry afterwards, but
he couldn’t see the force of laying 5 to 2 Carlton.
Another Ikey offered 10 to 1 against Melbourne—playing
Collingwood—which piece of generosity was sufficiently
amazing to paralyse all backers.
X * * *
Of the Sydney British Association clubs, Pyr-
mont takes the football premiership with 25 competition
points. Behind are Rozelle, Glebe and Balmain, with 22,
19, and 16 points respectively. Somewhere behind them
are four other clubs that don’t count, as only the leading
four play off for the Gardiner Cup, and the destination of
that bauble will be decided during the next three weeks.
■* * * *
The great Australian race problem seems mostly
how to stop the favorite.
* * * *
“Oxbury” Spring meet, at Clarendon (Satur-
day), was only fairly attended. Sydney didn’t supply its
customary complement, and local people, as usual, stayed
away almost to a man. Frost-killed grass and evidence
everywhere of want of rain rendered the trip less cheerful
than usual, and the flint-like nature of the race-track
possibly made much difference to some horses, but ancient
Lucknow, winner of the big event (the Hawkesbury Spring
Handicap, ljm.), never showed better. Lucknow (hump-
ing 9.12) started second favorite (5 to 2 against) and won
all the way, beating first favorite Tatterdemalion by half
a length, a performance that makes him appear a more
than possible winner of next Saturday’s Epsom or
Monday’s Metrop. He has 9st. in one and Bst. 101 b. in the
other. Lucknow’s is another case in support of the con-
tention of observant people that horses last longer and
shape better if not raced too young. Lucknow’s early
days were spent between the shafts of a Western N.S.W.
clergyman’s buggy. ■ -
M.L.’s great hack-race performer Maniopoto is
voted by many particularly choice for the Epsom Handi-
cap, but several good judges won’t have him spite of his
hair-raising track gallops, generally accomplished with
light shoes. Last year Grand Rapids (another Maori-
lander) did as well as Maniopoto is doing now in his w - ork
—he covered the mile (fairly wide out) in 1.44 J, and yet
was not placed in the race. If it was certain Machine
Gun could go the distance, he would look a specially good
thing on his display in Tramway Handicap (6fur.), at
Tatts., a fortnight or so back, for his Spring distance
doings place him in the same class as were Marvel,
Sequence and co. But, great goer though he be oyer
6fur., there is considerable fear that the other quarter
mile will beat him. Lord Fitzroy has been doing at least
as good work as any other nag at Randwick ; his gallop
last Thursday had more merit in it than Maniopoto’s, but
he is not reliable. Lucknow’s Randwick, Rosehill, and
Hawkesbury form compels attention, and it will be no
surprise if he upsets the favorites. Warroo (improving
fast) is another who must be considered, ditto Famous
and Boabdil (last Saturday’s easy winner of Caulfield
Hemsie Stakes). All things considered, Maniopoto or
Lord Fitzroy should win, with Famous, Warroo and
Machine Gun close up.
*•• • .
At moment of writing there are 34 still in
the Metrop., to be run second day (Monday) of coming
A.J.C. Spring meeting, but it is certain that demand
for final forfeits will see some weeding out. S.yd-
ney Cup winner Tartan looks the pick of the lot. No
other horse has gone through a more thorough prepara-
tion, and he is still thriving so well that owner and
trainer expect him to strip better than ever before in his
career. This is saying a great deal. P.K. is another
sure to run well if he starts. Marvel Loch is more
likely to succeed in the Metropolitan (which event
she won easily two years ago as an outsider) than in the
Epsom, and must be classed among the most promising of
those in the long race. Fitz Grafton’s track doings do not
recommend him, but he shapes a lot better with the
colors up—as evidence his good race in Marvel Loch’s
record-breaking Rawson Stakes a few weeks ago. So far
Victorian trainer Scobie’s contingent has not been backed
to any extent, but the one the stable comes for (perhaps
Sylvan King) will get a heap of support from punters
generally. The winner appears to be among those men-
tioned, and Tartan, P.K., or Marvel Loch may scoop the
pool.
■K fr m *
Torah’s win of S.A.J.C. Derby (Friday) was
anticipated. Previous performances made him clearly
the best of his age in S. Australia. Torah appropriated
Fulham Park Plate, Turretfield Stakes, Richmond Park
Stakes, S.A. Stakes, and Parkside Stakes, and was only
twice unplaced. For the Derby long odds were laid on
him—investments totalling £464 10s., while next best
backed was Staccato £6O Iss. Practically Torah was
never out of a canter at any stage, and he won with
absurd ease. Tote paid £1 3s. for every £1 specked.
* * * *
A Wellington bookmaker had a treble on the
three big things of recent Maoriland Grand National
meet, and the correct trio (Kremlin, Innislrillen, and
Creusot) were not struck till 1300 bets had been made. It
isn’t stated how many hundreds of wagers were laid after
the 1300 bets were made and the correct combination
picked. The man who tries to back a treble is in need of
a protector.
« » * •
Ancient John Young, “the father of bowls,”
has again been nominated as president of theN.S.W.
Bowling Association, and anyone who would have the
temerity to oppose the Nestor of the game deserves to be
dragged at the tail of a wild animal round Sydney from
one bowling green to another. It was Mr. Young, who
went to England and placed the game upon an interna-
tional basis, and subsequently captained the first Aus-
tralian team of bowlers to invade the Gold Country. On
the subject of bowls the evergreen veteran can talk till
the milk-boy calls in the gray hours of the morning, and
when the Sydney City Council recently ukased that the
clubs must pay rent for the greens which had been laid
down in public parks, the old gentleman made “ a pro-
nouncement ” on the matter that showed how wide was
the knowledge he possessed of the game. He pointed out
that the London County Council had established eight
bowling greens in various parts of the imperial city,
that all through Scotland special facilities are granted
to clubs to establish greens on municipal and public
lands, and in Ireland the city of Belfast has allowed two
bowling greens to be established free of cost in the public
parks. Also in the U.S.A., New York, Boston, Chicago,
and ’Frisco, all have greens, free of rent, in their public
parks, and all through the Canadian Dominion the clubs
have been encouraged to lay down greens in the people’s
breathing spaces, gratis. Even the gentle Jap. plays
ye ancient game, and in Kobe and Yokohama there are
greens in the civic domains, for which no rent is collected,
and the same rule obtains in the English part of Shanghai,
and in Kowloon, opposite Hong Kong. In none of these
cities, of course, are the bowlers allowed to charge for
admission, or prohibit the entry of the public, but the
caretakers have power to prevent Vandals in hobnailed,
or any other kind of boots, playing kiss-in-the-ring on the
green.
Bowls is an ancient game, but it is only in com-
paratively modern times it has managed to clothe itself
with the atmosphere of respectability that makes it the
ideal pastime of old gentlemen of unusual development
about the bullion. It was played in England as far back
as the 12th century, and in those days seems to have
ranked with two-up, and for several hundred years a
bowling-green or alley was a “ place ” within the mean-
ing of the Act. In the reign of Henry 111. it was among
the games “dishonorable, useless and unprofitable”
which were forbidden the clergy. Richard 11. didn’t
object to the toffs of the day bowling a little—they had
no morals, anyhow—but the common people, who had to
be kept in the path they should go, were forbidden to
indulge. Henry IV., Edward IV., and even dissolute old
Harry VIII., legislated against the game and strove to stamp
it out. Then Harry weakened, and allowed “ artificers,
servants and the like ” to play during Christmas time in
the grounds of and under the supervision of their masters ;
and the masters paid a license of £IOO per annum to
be allowed to have a private bowling green. Mary,
who seems to have been over-zealous in caring
for the spiritual welfare of her subjects, cancelled
all these licenses, but, like two-up, the vice seemed
to thrive on adversity. Old Harry himself seems t,o have
trundled a bit when he wasn’t busy marrying, or murder-
ing his wives, and Charles the Headless was an enthusi-
astic bowler, so the laws against the game fell into disuse
till the reign of George 11. Then they were revived with
a bang, but only put into operation against bowling
alleys ; open greens were not interfered with, for the very
good reason that only the aristocracy could afford to con-
struct greens. The present-day system of bowling clubs
dates from the beginning of the 19th century, and the
pioneer was the Willowbank Club of Glasgow.
* * * *
The K-ilgoorlie R.C.’s meeting broke the State’s
totalisator record with £76,530 invested during the three
days. This exceeded last year’s figures by £I4OO.
* * * *
The opening day of the world’s cycling cham-
pionship meeting at Antwerp was a triumph for England,
which annexed the sprint and long-distance amateur .
championships, and the 100 kilometres amateur-paced
championship. The last was won by Meredith in the
record time of lhr. 80min. 45 I-ssec. One hundred kilo-
metres is 62 and one-tenth English miles.
* * •» *
The big Maoriland Dunlop cycle road race
(Timaru to Christchurch) saw 171 starters put their heads
down and struggle through'the rain and wind over heavy
roads. J. Arnst, the scratch man, burst a tyre, and
was apparently thereby oiited; and Mudgway, the
Wellington rep., broke a chain; so the fastest time and
first place went to the same man—P. M. O’Connor, of
South Canterbury. The distance is 100 miles, and
O’Connor got over it in 6hr. 57min.
The world’s hour motor-cycle record now stands
at 54 miles 523 yd., which was put up by C. R. Collier,
one of the English team of motor-cyclists who recently
had such a run of bad luck in the “ Little Gordon Ben-
nett race ” in France.
* * * *
“ Maorilander ” : As you say in a recent issue,
thej’ are road racing mad in Maoriland ; 274 entries were
received for the Dunlop race from Timaru to Christchurch
on Sept. 2. For weeks before that date, the road was
obliterated by the seething mass of riders. It looked like
the Black Hole of Calcutta on wheels. There were seven
eliminating tests to select representatives ; in these there
were over 400 competing. The road to Timaru was one
huge track. Cyclists lived on it, and patted down every
little lump, and picked the stones off. In the roadside
pubs enormous quantities of beer were drunk and world’s
records put up. It is rumored that another Tyre Cos. is
going to start road racing in Maoriland over a longer
course than the Timaru-Christchurch one. Prizes will be
all golden sovereigns. It would be good sport if the two
companies ran their races same day, same course and
same time. Then it would look as if the whole Island
was crawling and the road a mammoth centipede.
Cyclist MacFarland is bringing with him as
riding companion the new Amurkan “ marvel,” W. S.
Fenn, who, by the latest turn of the wheel, is the “ Han-
dicap King.” He holds nearly all the world’s competi-
tion records up to 10 miles, and has only been beaten by
the mighty Kramer himself. Indications are that this
season Austral tracks will be over-run by an army of
hungry free-lances from the five corners of the earth.
* * * *
Kieran’s winning of 500 yd. supremacy of Eng-
land at Leeds in 6min. 7sec. should close the mouths of
carping Britishers who scoffed at Australian watches and
watch-holders. The time is 3 3-ssec. better than the
same swimmer’s previous world’s record, accomplished at
Bronte baths, Sydney, less than seven months ago.
Though the cable is silent on the subject it is certain
Billington, Forsyth (w! iner last year), and Taylor were
behind Kieran, as late English papers contain references
to their prospects in the 500 yd. event, based on what each
did in the 440 yd. Northern Championship. Only other
big race to be decided now is 220 yd. supremacy at Hornsey
on the 26th inst. ; then Kieran will probably return to
Australia, accompanied by Billington, whom English
swimming people talk of sending out here. *
Annette Kellermann has diplomatically post-
poned her third attempt to swim from Dover to Calais —
until next year. Asa matter of fact, none of the recent
attempts have amounted to more than half of Captain
Webb’s great feat.
* » * *
A Licensed Victuallers’ Tournament, although
it comes late in the season, is attracting some attention
at Alcock and Co.’s billiard-hall in Melbourne. A
Markers’ tournament at the same hall was a failure as a
show. The men had no followings of friends and admirers
as compared with the “bungs,” many of whom play a
better game, and have a better nerve than most of the
markers. Besides, there is a sporting element in their
competition, whereas a struggle between two ordinary
billiard-room Chorleys is viewed with deep distrust if a
few pounds depend on the issue.
* * * *
The Melbourne publican’s Indian minah, which
acquired some celebrity a few months back by bringing
about the identification of the hotel cook as a person
entitled to a considerable fortune, proves himself to be a
veritable mascot, and is so much desired on that account
that the proprietress begins to see the necessity of con-
fining him in a burglar-proof cage. Luck has even come
the way of the youth who was recently in difficulties over
the stealing of the bird. After doing the term fixed by
law, he called round at the pub., and complained
bitterly that he was a misused young man, having been
entirely guiltless. He asked for compassion, and a little
cash to help him on his way. The bar lady sprung a few
shillings, five of which the youth invested in a sweep
ticket and promptly landed £4OO. The result is that the
bird’s price has gone up to £IOO, and superstitious backers
of horses are rushing the place just to touch his head or
try and steal a feather.
* * * *
“Melb.”: A day of “Bizarre Sports” is
advertised at Sandridge. One is the German picnic game
of “ Winning the Rooster,” when a he-fowl is put under
an earthern pot, and the ladies throw sticks at it.
Smasheress gets him.
* * * *
Up to the middle of July the Australians had
only three batsmen included in a list of the best 25 aver-
ages for the English season. Armstrong and Noble were
second and fifth on the list respectively, and Trumper
figured at the tail end. But, as showing that averages
dealing with big - figures only are not reliable guides to
“ form,” it may be mentioned that neither Jackson nor
Maclaren, at that time, had made sufficient runs to be
listed at all. The bowling averages are a truer indication
of merit. Here it appeared that among the men who had
done most work, Haigh and Rhodes were somewhat better
than Laver (the best of the Australians), and Lees, Ker-
mode, Brearley and Relf were a little better than Arm-
strong.
* * * *
“B.” : Recent discussion re alternating the
choice of innings in test matches instead of tossing each
time, has received further point by the fact of Jackson
winning five successive tosses. Admitting that the English
cricketers are this season better than the Australians, it
is no sort of a “ test ” when one side has the choice of con-
ditions right through the season. When the new idea
was mooted out here, one plea advanced against it was
that the clever push might first rig the betting market,
and then (knowing who was going in first) proceed to rig
the wicket also before play started. It was a foolish plea,
for the same rigging of the wicket is possible on, say, the
second or third day, when it is equally known what side
will be batting. On reaching England the Australians
are reported to have raised the question again, but this
time the Englishmen objected—and quite naturally.
* * * *
The I. Zingari cricket club, which models itself
on an English namesake, still exists. Originally formed
at Potts Point, the club was intended to be the refuge of
the pure-minded amateur of good social standing, and
promised to be somewhat of a force, many good players
joining at its inception. The success of the electorate
system, however, clipped its wings, and the I. Zingari has
now no real playing strength. It follows the common or
plebeian cricket club in one respect by nominating 16
vice-presidents.
The baseball clubs in and around Sydney that
struggled for the first-grade supremacy numbered ten,
and Petersham carried off the doubtful honor with 24
competition points, Woollahra being second with 20.
After that the rest were nowhere, Paddington, which
has four times carried off the premiership, scoring
only eight competition points. Even then it was third on
the list. This coming Saturday a Melbourne team will
try conclusions with Sydney's best. The redoubtable
Dr. Twiss will be among the invaders, and the diaphragm
shields, the frying-pan gloves, and the rest of the weird
paraphernalia are being carefully tested before Victoria’s
terrible pitcher gets loose on the wearers.
* * • *
Thirsting for fresh conquests, Vic. cross-country
champion G. Blake went over to Tasmania the other day
and mopped up the ’Speck’s ten miles cross-country cham-
pionship in 63min. ISsec. Schofield, of Hobart, and
Thompson, of Launceston, were second and third respect-
ively.
# * * *
More than possible that Canadian sculler
Durnan will come to Australia, like his uncle, to bury his
reputation in the Parramatta River, as there is a move-
ment on foot to raise sufficient money to offer the Canuck
liberal expenses. As Durnan has had swelled head ever
since he defeated back-number Sullivan, the offer of any-
thing like reasonable expenses may be jumped at by
Hanlan’s nephew
* * * *
As a sport boxing is booming just now in
Sydney. All over the place there are amateur clubs,
calling themselves by euphonious names, such as the
Something Pastime Oiub, the Sons of Rest Athletic Club,
and so forth, in which fairly big purses are fought for and
large side-bets are announced, and this writer never doubts
the word of any professional, or even good amateur,
fighter about side-bets.
* * • * *
That cheerful coon slugger, Joseph Walcott,
Esq., was not in his usual condition on the occasion of his
disturbance with Mr. Paddy Martin at the Gaiety on
Saturday night last. The gentlemen who knew all about
it laid 6t04“0n ”in favor of the colored brudder. For
the first four rounds Walcott’s superior knowledge of the
game seemed to keep him slightly in front, and then the
white man began to land a few in the vicinity of Wal-
cott’s food gateway. By the eighth round Walcott was
done. He was badly battered, and he was exhausted, but
he managed to avoid a knock-out, and kept going some-
how till the 16th, when his seconds waved the towel of
defeat.
-*•** *
“Snell” : Jack Wren, Melb.’s Napoleon of the
totes, isfiguringnow as a patron of pugilism, and hasthreat-
ened to dig the sport out of the bin of obloquy, and make
it popular and respected again. He secures the Exhibi-
tion for a heavy-weight thumping match where others
have failed, and the winner of the mill is to meet the
world’s champion, Jimmy Jeffries, whose terms for an
Australian scrap—£soo for ex’s, and a £2OOO purse—have
been accepted by the Oollingwood sport. It is not easy
to see how Wren is going to get his money back out of
this enterprise, but that is his own affair. There is
nobody in Australia who seems to be within three moves
of Jeffries’ class, but the world’s champion would draw in
exhibition spars up against Squires, Felix, M‘Call, and
perhaps a couple more. In a serious engagement Jim
would probably have anybod3 - we have to offer beaten
before he entered the ring. He had announced his per-
manent retirement from the game when Wren’s offer
reached him. Perhaps he does not regard what he will
have to do in Australia as calculated to break in on his
permanent retirement.
* * * *
Victorian golf championship struggle ended on
Saturday under adverse conditions —a hurricane of wind
in the morning, and pouring rain in the afternoon. Fri-
day’s play left W. Bruce wish an advantage over Scott and
Riddell, and three holes from the finish of Saturday morn-
ing’s round with Scott, Bruce had added one to his lead.
Then he broke up, losing three strokes through a bad
drive and mistakes at the 16th and 17th holes. Afternoon
saw Scott start with three strokes lead on Bruce and five
on Riddell, and, in spite of weather and range of holes, he
went round in 78 —which was one more than his Victorian
record—-and won handily. Bruce was 17 behind on the
aggregate.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: The owner who scratches his
horse because he is not offered a “ cut ” in the sweep is
becoming so frequent that the question arises: “ Why
does ‘ Tattersall ’ play into his hands by continuing the
absurdity of making his chief prizes depend upon the
result of a horse race ? ” Why not have all cash prizes.
The advantages to those who support the consultations
would be obvious enough. First and foremost, the man
who, after drawing - blanks for twenty years, has the luck
to draw first prize could not be blackmailed by owner or
jockey. He would get his cash —all of it —straight awajq
without the danger of dropping dead with the excitement
of seeing his horse lose by a nose. There is at least one
policeman less in Victoria through the present absurd
system of including horses in the gamble. He dropped
dead. If there is any reason why the horses, owners,
jockeys and “whisperers ” should be included save to give
them all a chance to blackmail, I—a subscriber from the
first —would like to hear it.
Effete Yankeedom runs British aristocratic
inefficiency pretty close. When New York’s
crack regiment (composed mainly of wealthy
noodles) recently encamped for training purposes,
each two privates had a tent between them, the
tent was electrically lighted, each warrior had a
valet and shoeblack in attendance, and the '‘mess”
was presided over by gorgeous chefs from the
Brooklyn clubs !
Bigjohn Forrest, in delivering his Budget,
gave a nasty slap in the eye to his old Tory friends
when he said that the men who were continually
libelling Australia were those who owed most to
it. John is quite right there. Nearly all the
leading Stinking Fish personages are of humble
origin. But they went into retail trade before the
invention of cash registers, or boodled a contract,
or were lucky in a land deal, and now are rich, and
raucously abuse the land that gave them wealth
when, in many cases, it should have given them a
big stone gaol.


SMOKED 40 YEARS
AND NEVER
MET
Pass*
'ill
fm
z.^o
■Jr
■nk
Wj
m
m/i
CIGAR TO
EQUAL THEM.”
Mr. HENDERSON, J.P.. writes
“Effingham, Crawley Down, Sussex.
“Dear Sir,—Thank you for so kindly sending my riarsuma Cigars. Having
smoked for something like 40 years, I can safely say 1 have never met with one to
equal them.—Yours truly, “ J. HENDERSON.”
The Marsuma has already the largest sale of any cigar in England. Its intrinsic merit has recommended it
everywhere. A cigar that has received praise from Lord Kitchener, Sir Henry Irving, Right Honorable the
Earl of Dun raven, Sir Edmund Barton, and the hundreds of other well-known men, must be something out
of the ordinary.
SOLE JLO-lEJIEsrTS
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERGILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
Mr. DAN REDDAN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria.
Messrs. CORNELL & CO., Adelaide, S,A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Greymouth, N.Z.
The Pen Carbon Letter Book.
'm,
m
<>/A
83l
m.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MATT, WOMAN or CHTT.D can write a letter, and at the same
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of hills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves no vague,
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
S' Je Agents for fTB BTfITT JP- Y r T , Tfe
Australasia: £ls ItlvH 06 Llllsj
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria. —ANDREW SHSKAS & CO., 101-103 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
20,000
RECORDS
to choose
from.
fsd
THE HOME THAT POSSESSES AN
£dison phonograph
is a Happy Home. Music is a
solace to the tired brain—it soothes
—it cheers —it enlightens.
We are sealing the finest Edison
Phonographs at American Prices
The Gem
Phonograph,
£2 fOs
The Standard
Phonograph,
£4
The Home
Phonograph,
£6
OUT THIS OUT AND
POST TO US, and we will
send you Catalogues and
full particulars.
ft’ame
Add res
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
Importers of Phonographs
. . . . and Records ....
393 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
I SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
3
f
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
L3P Every-Bar weighs 17 llor est
English Ounces , divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for AVilliams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
T7OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-C ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “a®
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office, Proprietor—GEO. W. ELLIS.
X
VeryOldVattcd
Liqueur Whisky.
Distilledtiled by
■*///&
Kilmarnock .Scotland
Beautiful Designs in Rubber Stamps
A
RUBBER STAMP (Best Quality) in this design—
only 1/6 Post Free. ANY NAME. Hundreds of
XELLIL
l v^i^- = iT~s^9
other designs at
similarly low
prices. Send for
Booklet.
SELF-INKING
PADS, any color,
1/- Post Free.'
All kinds of RUBBER STAMPS manufactured at ex-
ceed. ngly low prices. Quotations furnished.
A. J. SMITH & Co., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d. ; Posted, Bd.
D? BAGSHAWS
VITAL FORCE TABLETS
❖
sdf
THE BEST
NERVE
jom
IN THE j
WORLD/
sd
‘CI.
EASY TO
CARRY
EASY TO TAKE
2/-
Per Box
f of 50TABLETS.
ATALLCHEMISTS.
OR POST PAID FROM
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG C? U p . SYDNEY.
fs
LEARN TO WRITE ADVERTISEMENTS.
If you are ambitious and want to qualify
yourself to earn big money writino- ads.
for advertisers, send for my Booklet
“HOW TO LEARN AD-WHITING BY MAIL.’’
The new profession with an unlimited
field. In four years I have built up the
largest ad-writing business in Australasia.
I will tell YOU how to do it.
Send for Full Particulars To-Div.
THE MILLER COURSE OF ADVERTISING
INSTRUCTION BY MAIL
(THOMAS A. MILLER, Director)
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
* o
j:
21$
iT
feiHf
r
t 3 -L\ $
i-; \ |\
rsgg —-■> V\
MOTORING «n d CYCLING
on Australian Roac’s is CHEAPER, MORE
RELIABLE, and MORE ENJOYABLE when
df
are fitted, because they give
less trouble than other Tyres *
The Public Prosecutor has now become
Eart of N.S.W. police court system, and the
igher courts have always possessed such an
official. But there is no sign yet of the Public
Defender. While this is so the legal system is out
of balance, The accused who cannot pay a
defender has the machinery of the court against
him, and magistrate and Judge are, in the main,,
driven by machinery.
Penrith district (N.S.W.) has put up some-
thing of a record in deceased inhabitants. Last
week, there died Wm. Moxham aged 73 years,
resident in the district 55 years ; Martin Eisenhult
aged 77, a 50 years resident; George Clissold
aged 79, a resident 50 years; Daniel McLaugh-
lin aged 84, a 40 years resident; and G.
B. Minton, aged 72, who had dreamed away
53 years in that locality. M'Laughlin was
once weigh-master at the Haymarket, Sydney,
when all produce was taken there. The “ market ”
was an open space from George-street to Elizabeth-
street, the eastern end being the Pound. The
Market house, a red brick building, was on the
western end ; it had a clock tower, the clock now
doing duty at the Fish-market in Woolloomooloo.
The market house was sometimes used as'a theatre.
In those days Belmore Park was a dust heap with
a stream running through it from Surry Hills.
If the Deakin Government insists on a
census being officially taken before the House of
Reps, makes changes in State representation, it
will fall into line with the practice in the United
States. There the number of Reps, is based on
the last official census, not on interim estimates
of statisticians.
A Sydney obituary — that of Septimus
Stubbs Garling—recalls the first Garling, an
English solicitor, whom the British Government
induced, with W. H. Moore, another Gentleman
One, to come to Sydney in 1814, as there were
then no “respectable” members of the legal
profession in Sydney. Up to that date the
lawyers practising in Sydney had come out in
bond.
The Yic. municipal elections were remark-
able for the complete rout of the Labor party’s
candidates. This was most conspicuous in such
democratic and Labor centres as Richmond, Col-
lingwood, South Melbourne, and parts of St.
Kilda municipality. In face of the special appeal
of the Political Labor Council, this repulse re-
quires the attention of the Labor party, and seems
to show a reaction against the extreme views
which so marked the Victorian delegation at last
Political Labor Conference.


The “KODAK” SEASON^
©
Commences in Spring and lasts all the year round* The most
careless Photographer can hardly make a mistake with a Kodak.
All Kodaks are so perfectly fitted and adjusted that errors of
judgment only can affect results. 0 0 Kodaks are of many
patterns, and are sold at various prices, but the only genuine
Kodak is the “ EASTMAN ” Kodak, made by Kodak Ltd.
CAN BE USED EITHER WITH PLATES OR FILMS .
THE BEST OF ALL FILMS * *
Is the KODAK N-C FILM, which is non-halation, orthocliromatic, and does not
curl. Used by all the leading Photographers in all parts of the world. Can be
developed in daylight with the Kodak Daylight Developing Machine, dispensing
entirely with the use of a dark-room.
THE FILM OF THE WORLD
me oniY roll pilm used m over the world
OBTAINABLE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
4CSK> - IJMBV . fWBD . - 4SBS i
THE OHLY RELIABLE LrGEMJIfIE FILM FOR KONIKS
■batter & ROUSE PROPY., LTD.,
IDLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS FOR KODAK. LIMITED.
878 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
And al MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and BRISBANE
KODAKS of all Patterns and at all Prices, from the SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENT for KODAK Ltd., PRhMO
CAMERAS, &c., and all KODAK SPECIALITIES ; also DEALERS' SUPPLIES in all Lines—
BAKER & ROUSE »opt.
375 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne
78-80 Queen St, Brisbane; 37 Bundle St, Adelaide.
This
Trade
Mark
AERTEXI
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
Shirts made to measure from 5/6.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos I
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney .
Aids Digestion,
Braces the Nerves,
Builds up the Tissues.
sdf
30 times more
nutritious than milk.
Particularly useful in cases of
fever, extreme exhaustion,
Bright’s disease, diabetes,
chorea, mal-nutrition, and
N| wasting diseases.
f All Chemists, Grocers & Store*.
A FREE GIFT TO-DAY
to advertise our
OSTRICH TIPS.
Feather Ends Free with Every Order under 5/-, enclosing this Advertisement.
FEATHER ORNAMENTS, VALUE 1-, GIVEN FREE WITH EVERY
MAIL ORDER OVER 5h THIS MONTH.
CUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT and Post with your Order.
MILLERS
mt,
OSTRICH PLUMES
Black, White, Cream>
Natural, or Black
tipped with White.
5/
Length, 12 inches.
Post free.
The Feathers we offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Buy to-day, or write
for one. Send Postal Note or Money-
Order to John Mi.ler.
H!
From the
Famous Farms
of South Africa.
Black, White,
Ore am, Natural,
or Black, and
White mixed.
\ (15 inches)
10/6
Post
Free
There is practi-
cally nothing
more becoming
to tile average woman than the
soft setting given her face and
heiid by really good feathers.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE.
sd
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Farms of Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length 10 inches..
3 for 10/-
There's a charm about
Miller’s Ostrich Tips no
other trimming can impart.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length 1J yards.
fs
This New
Fashionable Mount,
2 Tips with Osprey,
Black, Cream, or
i Black tipped with
White.
3/ The Bunch
/ Post free.
We make this SPECIAL,
OFFER to advertise our
Ostrich Tips. Write to-
day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Corner Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNEY
Also at Cor. Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne. Mention The Bulletin.
AN AID TO BEAUTY.
OSTRICH TIPS—
Black, Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
■Length, 9 inches.
Post Erse any address
3 for 6/-
(StK Shillings).
df
SIo woman who cares about her appearance can afford
ft® be indifferent ,to Ostrich Plumes—an aid which helps
ifco her attainment of beauty.
BIRTHDAY PRESENTS.
imR
Black, White,
Oivam, Natural,
or Black and
White mixed.
(18 inches)
I 21/-
As a trimming
nothing can
equal a good
Ostrich Feather
in a Lady’s Rat.
They look ■soft and graceful, therefore
eminently becoming for young and old.
AN IDEAL GIFT
*9
FOR THE LADIES.
Natural Boas
(Length, l£ yards)
42/-
The Finest we have ever
shown, beautiful quality,
thick and heavy. Boas equal
to ours cannot be_ bought for
twice the money in any other
house.
Fasteners Free with
every Boa•
a. nxr.
Exhibition of Australian Manufactures $ Products*
The first great opportunity of displaying the Products of Australian Manufacturers and
Australian Workmen. AGRICULTURAL GROUNDS, MOORE PARK, DECEMBER, 1905.
Apply without delay for space to the Organising Secretary, A. MCGUIRE.
Telephone 1499. M. A. MARTI'.V, General Secretary, 134 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NICOLE UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and Orchestras. tOin. and 7in. Records
will fit any and every disc talking machine. ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NIGOLEPHONES
Two Special Instruments,
“ The Colonial ” and
“ The New Standard.”
gar- ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application. “WS
W. G. KING, Sole Agent, 316 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
KEEPS THE SKIN
'■ COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
KOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T"n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. bEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott 3ros., Sydney; Felton, Grlanwade & Co., Melbourne.
Co-operating Wool & Produce Co., Sydney.
A BONA. FIDE PASTOR RUSTS’ INSTITUTION. _______


sdf
Use
Our Belt
if you
want
Health
and
Strength.
It is a
Natural
Cure!
Our
FREE
BOOKS
will tell
you how
to regain
your
Vigor
and
Vitality.
KNOW that no one remains a Weakling because he want to. We are sure you want to
overcome any symptom ot early decay that has shown itself on you, and we know that
if you have a reasonable foundation to build upon we can make you a Strong, Healthy, and
Vigorous Being. We want to send you the names of many who, when they came to us, were
Physical Wrecks, and who are now among the Finest Specimens of Physical Manhood. We have
cured thousands of men and women who were suffering from a Weak and Wasted Condition
of both Brain and Body, and other troubles.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
is the only Natural Cure for Rheumatism, Weak Back, Loss of Vital Power, Nervousness,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Varicocele, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Stomach, Liver, and Kidney Troubles,
etc. It gives back to the system the element which, when wasted through Excesses, causes
most of the Ailments that Men and Women suffer from.
Mr. GEO. T. HOOKER, op Botjrke Street, SINGLETON, N. S.W., writes:
“ It gives me pleasure to say that your High-Grade Electric Belt has given me every sat-
isfaction. My back is now entirely cured, and, in fact, lam strong all over. The Vari-
cocele has also disappeared, and I can assure you that lam very thankful to you. No
one could suffer more than I did, the pains I had were unbearable. Your Belt has made
my life worth living, and I can honestly recommend it to all who are suffering.”
yj
LsJ
GS
Write to-day for our FREE BOOK. It is full of facts, proofs, and items
of interest relative to the marvellous curative and invigorating powers
of our Belt and Attachments. It contains 96 pages of Sound Advice and
Information about the many ailments Electricity cures, and, also,.
50 illustrations, showing how we apply the current to the limbs or bodv where there may
be weakness or pain. We will send you one FREE and POSTAGEPAID on application.
Ufa Snppia llv Invitp Vnil to avail yourself of our FREE CONSULTATION and!
¥¥B OjJbUdliy limUS YUU ADV | CEi Call, if you possibly can, and person-
ally examine this Wonderful Appliance. Our Offices are Open Daily from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
If you cannot call you should take advantage of our SPECIAL DIAGNOSIS SYSTEM, which
enables us to treat you as well IN YOUR OWN HOME as if you visited our Specialist.
Surely our treatment is worthy of the consideration of every ailing man and woman..
It must be right, that’s certain, when we can produce thousands, of letters from cured
people. Every man and woman that has used our Belt praises it, and so would you E
THE CO.,
IOOW. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
And at 167 E. SWANSTON STREET* MELBOURNE.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERThI
54 WILLIS STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
William Charles Crawford,
Harry Joseph Crawford
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sever*
Prize Medals^
sdf
Works s Birmingham, England
These series oI
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention <s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Biotting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Your Complete Writing Outfit!
Paper-*SWAN* Fountain Pen-Ink
COMPARE THIS WITH—
Desk (you can use chair arm or knee with a ‘ SWAN Box of
Steel Pens, several Holders, Ink Pots and Ink, Pen Racks, etc.
RECKON COSTS—
‘SWAN’ Outfit - say 15/-, total for several years.
Steel Nib Outfit - „ 8/6 annually.
One Filling serves for days —One ‘Swan’ for years.
Reduced Facsimile.
vr v v -vr
Si ins. long.
SIZE I. SWAN PEN WITH GUARANTEED GOLD NIB
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
MABIE, TODD & BARD, 93, Cheapside, Loadoa.
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Q
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and Most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
m
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
sd
PROF.
Reader, do you desire to become a Hypnotist? Ho you want to know how to utilize th o most
powerful und mysterious force of nature? Ho you value control over others? Ho you value the
means of securing friendship, love aud personal influence? Ho you the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness; to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not ? No other accom«
plishinent is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out 411 about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and lie will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The Hook is profusely illustrated, containing beautiful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is, and wlnvt you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway t ie minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wondetr-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. .Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
f
THE LONDON TREATMENT
FOR THE
Inebriety#Drug Addiction
EVERYONE interested in the work of
Reclaiming Victims of DRINK or
DRUG HABIT should be familiar with the
Treatment used at the London Institute.
Full particulars sent Post Free on appli-
cation. Address—
H. W. BUTTREY,
London Institute, Box 121, Mas ter ton,
New Zealand.
#
<55
WllHe
eyes
%
4
sdf
„■s>
THE i PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer fores
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down •' cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE! OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kina, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway's Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
V c#
v\# v # v
&
sd
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the back as long as required. | It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from it.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents: i
ram GRimuiißE $ co., ideciooie.
SLA CK , It LI), and SLUJE (in 8-gallon Ctises)
PRIOR IN MELBOURNE .. ... -&/-
ft SYONHY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
BRISBANE (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
HOBART (Wm. Crosby & Co.)
«&/-
-SL/-
4/-
por
31
II
II
Gallon*
“ O’Fipp ” : Bent s dominance of the Vic.
State Ministry is shown by the fact that only
about one Victorian in 20 could tell you anything
further than that Bent is the Ministry. One in
50 might be able to add the names of Murray and
Swinburne, though Swinburne is looking up now,
and soon one person in 25 will know about him.
On the other hand, the tail fragment of the
Ministry is growing even more remote from public
knowledge.
The 1904 return under the Aliens Immi-
gration Restriction Act is not an encouraging
document. During 1904, 118 colored folk were
asked to pass the test; one, a Chinese, succeeded ;
117, including 78 Chinese, failed, and were ex-
cluded. No Japanese ivas asked to pass the test.
In all 2802 persons of colored races were admitted
without tests, and these included 847 Chinese, 461
Japanese, and 469 Malays. The majority of the
Japs (419) were admitted as pearlers.


Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of Messrs. Brough and Flemming.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
THE BROUCH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY
in the Great London Success,
THE WALLS OF JERICHO.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Day Sale at White Rose Caf6.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
the Eminent Young American Tragedienne,
iiVEiss !KTa,ix c e O’KT eil,
in Suderman’s Great Domestic Play,
MAGDA.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 9, TRILBY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. O. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
A SAILOR’S SWEETHEART,
Presented bv WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Taiented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—os, 2s and Is.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 9, and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
The Celebrated Musical Artists, the
BELLE CROME COMPANY,
VOCALISTS, COMEDIANS, MUSICIANS, and
UNRIVALLED BELLRINGERS.
PRICES—2s, Is Cd, Is, and Cd. Plan at Paling’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SVONSY.
" Sole Proprietor k Manager—Ml'.. Haishy Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
LAST NIGHTS of KARA.
A Wonderful, Novel, and Brilliant Speciality, PAYER,
L’Enigmatique Pierrot Gynmaste.
LAST WEEK in Svdnev of MISS FLORENCE CHALLIS.
Miss FANNY POWERS. Miss FREDA BRANDCH.
Miss WINIFRED WARNER. Mr. TOD CALLOWAY.
DAINTY BABY COOPER. J. W. WINTON anti M‘CINTY.
FRIEDA NIEMANN. IRVING SAYLES.
HARRY ROCHFORT, HARRY HART, FRANK YORKE.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SAT. NEXT, SEPT. 9, LEROY, TALMA, BOSEO, World’s
Monarchsof Magic, Greatest Illusionists on Earth.
LULU EO3ENE, Song'and Dance Artiste.
HARRY GOWAH, Comedian.
FRANK LEON, World’s Champion Dancer.
KELLY & AGNES, Sketch Artists.
McAULEY SISTERS, Comedy Sketch Duo.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
FOURTH WEEK and Undiminished Popularity of
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Combination of
Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in the Up-to-Date
Russian-Japanese War Drama,
BESIEGED IN PORT ARTHUR.
&g PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 9, First Appearance of the
STRAND THEATRE COMEDY CD.,
including Mr. J. J. DALLAS and Miss FLORENCE
LLOYD, in London’s Laughing Limit of Fun,
THE J.P.
Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. Williamson’s ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE CINGALEE,
the Latest Daly Theatre Success.
Plan at Allan’s. MATINEE, WEDNESDAYS.
Athenaeum hall, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of .. Mr. Edwin Geach.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
THE GREAT THURSTON,
in his Entertainment of
MAGIC, MUSIC, MIRTH and MYSTERY.
J3g>“ PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Glen’s.
JUDGE OF NATAL
SUPREME COURT
Mr, Justice Finnemore Tells of Remark-
able Cure of Distressing Eczema By
Cuticura—Grew Worse Under Pro-
fessional Treatment.
OTHER SUFFERERS
CURED BY CUTICURA
“I suffered a severe attack of eczema
on the scalp, face, ears, and neck, and
was for several months under professional
treatment, but became worse. My face
was dreadfully disfigured, and I lost
nearly all my hair. My wife prevailed
upon me to try the Cuticura Remedies,
which I did with most satisfactory re-
sults, the disease disappearing and my
hair growing thicker and glossier than
before my illness. My wife has purchased
Cuticura for other sufferers, with good
results in each case.—Robert Isaac Finne-
more (Judge of the Natal Supreme Court),
Pietermaritzburg, Natal.”
AGONIZING ECZEMA
And Itching, Burning Eruptions,
with Loss of Hair, Cured
by Cuticura.
The Cuticura Treatment is at once
agreeable, speedy, economical, and com-
prehensive. Bathe the affected parts
freely with hot water and Cuticura Soap,
to cleanse the surface of crusts and scales,
and soften the thickened cuticle. Dry,
without hard rubbing, and apply Cuti-
cura Ointment to allay itching, irritation,
and inflammation, and soothe and heal,
and, lastly, take Cuticura Resolvent, or
Pills, to cool and cleanse the blood. This
treatment affords instant relief, permits
rest and sleep in the severest forms of
eczema and other itching, burning, and
scaly humours, and points to a speedy,
permanent, and economical cure of tor-
turing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
rashes, and inflammations, from infancy
to age, when all other remedies and the
best physicians fail.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Paris, 5 Rue de
la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Cliem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props.
E6T* Send for “ How to Cure Eczema.” Mailed Froe.
DIINKLING’S
WATCHES
Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph ,
1
MELEQUfINE
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. ,
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
THE £5OO BOOK.
Y’S SELECTIO
By STEELE RUDD .
With 40 Illustrations by the leading:
Black and White Artists of Australia.
PRESS UNANIMOUS THAT THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS EVER PUBLISHED.
To show the confidence with which the public regard STEELE RUDD’S
future, it may be mentioned that the purchase-money for the rights of
£e SANDY’S SELECTION” amounted to £5OO, which is a record
price for any book of fiction written by an Australian and published locally.
Price 3/6; Post free sd. extra. "W
“ As a lively, crisp statement of the life of an Australian selector, it rings true.”—The Daily Telegraph.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection ’ will be read with interest by the many admirers of this promising author.”—The Sydney
Morning Herald.
“ You can’t do better than to fill yourselves up with the adventures of Sandy.”—The Queensland Grazier.
“The reader will laugh almost to exhaustion over the absurdities presented, but he will understand that
there is something beneath the fooling.”— Melbourne Leader.
“ Lionel Lindsay and other artists have contributed a number of illustrations as laughable as the text.” —The
Australasian.
“We heartily recommend the book to young and old. Many a hearty laugh will result from reading it.”—The
Tasmanian News.
“‘Sandy’s Selection’ does ‘Steele Rudd’ credit, and is a worthy successor to his earlier books.”— The
Bulletin.
“The book should have a record sale, and will only serve to whet the public appetite for more such readable
writings from the same author.”—Sydney Wool and Stock Journal.
“ These sketches make absolute, ‘ Steele Rudd’s ’ right to the title of leading humorist of Australasia."—
Christchurch Times. •
“ A fine piece of descriptive writing ; every line of it a sketch of human thought, view, and feeling, bold,
forceful, concrete, arid it stands on the same plane as the work done by Phil May.”—The Queensland Grazier.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection ’ is a hook to buy, not only for the fun wrapped up in the pages, but for the germs of
truth so well set forth.”—The Brisbane Herald.
“ Among the writers who have done for Australia what Bret Harte did for California is ‘ Steele Rudd,” whose
pictures of country life are humorous and truthful.”— Auckland Star.
“ The way in which the live stock on the selection is made to act in pantomimic harlequinade adds much to
the broad humor of the narration.”—The Melbourne Age.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection ’is worth reading. It is smart, witty and amusing.”— New Zealand Mail.
“The name of the author is a sufficient guarantee that it is well-written.”— Australian Pastoralist,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., 861 George St., Sydney.
ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
“ G.H.” : The shriek that Joke Cook
raised in the House of Reps, because Attorney-
General Isaacs accepted a retainingjfee from the S. A.
Government in connection with the Murray River
reminds that the wage of the Australian Attorney-
General doesn’t represent the income of a first-
class lawyer, or anything dimly resembling it.
Isaacs has practically lived in harness from the
day he took office. Look at his work in connection
with the Trade Marks Bill, Secret Commission
Bill, &c., &c. And his remuneration amounts to
less than a sixth part of £12,000 a year. The
British Attorney-General gets £7000 a year in a
sold lump, and other fees and emoluments bring
the total up to about £13,000. Of course Britain
is a richer country, but the work of its Attorney-
General is no heavier.
Osborn and Jerdan, of Sydney, the other
day got a letter from Donoughmore, Ballyragget,
Ireland, asking for ‘ 4 a catalogue of your phono-
graphs, which I have seen advertised in The
Bulletin.” Not bad business to drag a phono-
graph order 12,000 miles to Australia.*
Everybody has noticed how vastly Tommy
Bent’s politics have improved of late. But everybody
does not know that said improvement dated from Thomas’s
first visit to Daly’s reconstructed Turkish Baths, Royal
Arcade, Melbourne. Thomas breathed fervent blessings
on the improvements in the Baths, as he lay smiling on
the marble slab. Since then the blessings have returned
to him and sweetened his political career. What’s the
old adage about one clean politician being nearer to
godliness than a whole row of Wesleyans?*
When the terms of peace were announced,
the papers, which had been lying so persistently
about the real drift of the struggle, had to explain
their lies by saying that Japan had yielded so
much because of its tremendous chivalry and
humanity. Now they are reporting that Jap
leaders are prophesying that they will be stoned
or dynamited when they go home. Stones and
dynamite—chivalry and humanity !
AT POVERTY POINT.
Ballarat’s South-street noise factory shows no sign of
wear. Entries for the forthcoming competitions in
drones, yowls, howls and blares are said to beat all
previous records. N.S.W. entries alone total over 400,
including a choir of 00 voices and a band of 50 performers
from Newcastle, another from Bathurst, and several from
Sydney. The amount of energy and cold cash wasted in
these foolish affairs is enormous ; the only return is the
encouragement of the tiresome, precocious singing or
reciting kid.
Miss Georgie Musgrove, a daughter of Harry Musgrove,
well-known in theatrical circles, gained her opportunity
in Adelaide and stepped from the chorus ranks into the
part of Zelie in “ The Orchid,” which Miss Nellie Wilson
had vacated through indisposition.
Melba associated herself very actively with the benefit
matinee given at Oovent Garden to Madame Bauermeister,
the “ old woman ”of grand opera in London. The sou-
venir programme had portraits of Bauermeister and
Melba, and it was “the Australian prima-donna” who,
after carrying the bouquets to the heroine of the hour,
held a bunch of crimson roses over her head. Anything
in the nature of a “spree” appeals to the tempestuous
Queen of Song.
A recent Bulletin item about an old-time Melbourne
clown, who was drawn across the stage in a chariot to
which were harnessed a multitude of cats, has evoked
replies from two well-known actors. No. 1 states that the
clown was Fred Darbyshire, who afterwards joined Stanley
and took a juvenile co. to England long before the Pol-
lards were heard of. The cats were stolen for him by
Billy Edinger, property man, who died in ’75. (It was
Billy who told the story to No. 1.) Correspondent No. 2
remembers distinctly that the clown in question was Tom
Lewis—this second correspondent was playing in the
panto, in question and thinks it was “ Riquet of the
Tuft,” if Tiie Bulletin has deciphered it aright. He
offers no theory as to who stole the cats, in which
respect he is less interesting than No. 1. Anyhow,
there were only six or eight cats (Thomas variety),
and they didn’t draw the chariot ; it was dragged
by an invisible rope, and the cats were dragged also,
though they dug their claws into the stage and held on,
and sassed the management, and called wildly for their
hack salary. The act was abandoned after the first night,
according to correspondent No. 2—correspondent No. 1
reckons it was after the second night—it being con-
demned by the manager as an evidence of man’s in-
humanity to cat. Correspondent No. 1 adds as an addi-
tional reason that almost every woman in Melbourne who
had ever lost a cat descended on the theatre to demand
the restitution of her pussy. Anyhow, it is a good cat
story.
Dear Bulletin. —I see that in “Sundry Shows ” (24/7/’OS)
you ascribe “ the brighter part of the dialogue ” of Bland
Holt’s big drama, “ Besieged in Port Arthur,” to me.
You are giving unearned honor to yours very truly,
Edward Dyson.
It was commonly alleged that “ Pete ” Hughes,
deceased, couldn’t write. Nevertheless he could supply a
better newspaper paragraph than most advance agents.
“Pro.”: I defy anyone to show a melodrama without
‘ You here ! ”
"The Dunedin troupe of cyclists who went from Maori-
land to Europe, some years ago, are said to have improved
their turn into cne of the best,ever seen at the London
halls.
Managers of the Yiddish theatres in the Bowery, New
York, have found a way of pleasing playgoers who want a
“happy ending” to a drama as well as those who prefer
consistent, tragedy. In their version of “Romeo and
Juliet,” for instance, the curtain falls on the regulation
last act with both lovers poisoned, and the “artistic end-
ing” playgoer leaves the theatre. Then Friar Laurence
presumably administers an emetic, for the curtain rises
on another act of pure farce, wherein Mrs. Romeo Mont-
ague (nee Capulet) joins with her husband in the cake-
walk and two-step.
Premier Carruthers, setting Paddington
Town Hall clock going the other day, fixed one
eye on the local brewery and the other on the
inspector of nuisances and maundered
Alluding- again to the Local Government measure,
Mr. Carruthers asked them in their consideration of the
proposal to take up their “ Pilgrim’s Progress ” and read
the chapter referring to the Man with the Muck Rake. His
head was always down, whereas if he had looked up he
would have seen an angel. The measure would give a
crown of glory to people who wished to practise self-
reliance and self-help.
The man who talks this kind of Pecksnifflanguage
is always worth avoiding.
Michael Norton, the patriarch of Gunda-
gai (N.S.W.), who has just died, aged 85, was,
although present at the great Gundagai flood of
1852, as shaky about the exact number of persons
drowned as most of the records of the time. The
number is Variously stated at from 60 to 89. Gun-
dagai had another great flood eight years earlier,
when some lives were lost, and the oldest inhabi-
tants gradually came to merge the two floods and
the two lots of corpses, and often multiplied both
the waters and the dead by two.
The N.S.W. Liquor Bill makes the licensee
responsible for drunkenness or quarrelling on his-
premises, and doesn’t allow the defence that he
W'as.unable to prevent the trouble. A man may
enter in a drunken condition, and a fight may
start without any adequate notice. And how
about those times when the push comes in and
demands free drinks, and then wrecks the premises
and half kills the landlord? Will the battered
licensee be arrested in the hospital because there
was a disturbance in his house and he was under-
neath, with the push on top of him ?
Motorists are in arms against the N.S.W.
Inflammable Liquids Bill. The quantity of oil
which the Bill proposes to allow to be stored is so
small and the conditions of storage are so stringent
that they reckon the first motor that passes will
buy up ail the oil in a bush town, and the second
one will be left stranded there. After all, the
need for the proposed Bill isn’t very apparent.
. When oil is the cause of fire it seldom happens
that the fire arises through the storage of 60
gallons of the fluid ; mostly it is through someone
capsizing the half-pint in the lamp.
A distinguished trainer of lions says that the performer
with them must be an individual of high moral character
in every way, or the animals will find it out, and the per-
former will not be able to control them. The Man Who
Did and the Woman with a Past can’t tame lions.
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
Alterations in the names and addresses in
Sydney and suburbs for insertion in “Sands’
Directory, 1906,” may be sent to the compiler not
later than the first week in October.*
“H.” : The burning of two of Sydney’s
churches in one day is a reminder of the ex-
traordinary destruction by fire of the bluestone
East Melbourne Trinity Church of England last
year, on the very Sunday that the new incum-
bent, pastor White, took possession. He preached
there in the morning—not a combustible sermon,
either—and the fire broke out about an hour after.
I have not heard of another stone or brick church
being burnt in Australia, except St. Mary’s,
Sydney.
THE KISS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Divorce Court was rendered temporarily in-
capable of performing its work when Mrs. Maesmore
Morris, who secured a decree nisi, administered a full
luscious kiss to the court Bible on entering the witness-
box.
We’d seen her in the “ drahmmer,”
But her dainty lips were cold,
And their emphasis was calmer
As they kissed the hero bold ;
Now we know she just was shirking,
And we realise what bliss
Is beneath the surface lurking
In the great and thrilling kiss.
For, oh ! what an unexpected
Wealth of passion there was hid !
We had never once suspected
She could do it as she did.
Not the gentle peck belated
Of the bread-and-butter miss—
There were glories congregated
In that warm, impassioned kiss.
Thoughts that no one can describe ’ll
Hedg-e about that joy misplaced ;
How we love that germy Bible,
Where such good things went to waste
And its place we would be taking
If the last oath went amiss,
For our hearts are hourly aching
For just such another kiss.
VIC.
A.B.


LL ANDRADE for BOOKS
AND
NOVELTIES.
'km && M
WITH
11 Directions
USED BY
POST
FREE
REGI'STfc.'RhB,
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guidk by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Marta Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,' 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Niggeli Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heftameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, as. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Flashlights on Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post Bd.
God and My Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins,ls. Phrenology,
is. Passion’s Paradise, is6d. Stolen Sweets. Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover's Letter Writer,
is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingf.rsoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, iB. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
cataloguesNo. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4 : Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE ST
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
■ I
1
m
u
m
*
kfl
■
I
p
e
I
■yiT-rT A IS A I^ . . _
W Wph«!fpr defines the word Specialist to mean “One who devoted himself to a Speciality. The word
•< he defines aslollows: “ That which is the special or particular calling of any person or business;
Speciality he d Histine-uished or which he makes the object of special attention,
that for which a person is disti g t^e followers of any particular pursuits may become Specialists m their par-
to these definitions. the Flowers g nQ ' pe P ciallsts , bit as the world advanced in knowledge the
Thus it is that THE FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
is the Home of many Celebrated International Specialists in Disease, who are quoted as highest authorities in
MALE PELVIC admires most the man who does best what multitudes do well, and the
SM o.rui® srfissaSsisss ssr u " d “ 1 MI>ERIS - T " t)r not
Prof iris t0 se C ldL a that S youfind U one man a good Carpenter, Builder; Baker, Shoemaker, Grocer, or Butcher, and also
, is seldom t y w j, o bv applying* themselves to either of these trades, become perfect.
Edison" Marconf, Landseer, Stewart, Pasteur', Rkmrd are all Specialists in various Professions,
and so undoubtedly are the FREEMAN and WALLACE bPEOIALIbIh.
Here are one or two testimonies sent in to Dr.
Wallace, Physician-in-Chief to the Medical Staff, which
comprises FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS,
and which should be read with interest.
MR. B. H. PE4RD, of Mulwala, Vic., writes
“ I am highly pleased at kind treatment and skill re-
ceived at the Institute, for you have treated me in a
verv clever and straightforward manner.”
Mr. DAVID O’KEEFE, Beaconsfield, Tas., writes
“ I have worked very hard indeed lately, and am able
to do my portion just as well as the best of my mates,
thanks to your skill.”
Mrs. POWER, of Neardie, Queensland, writes
“ I am happy to say my health has been for some
time past, and now is, very good since you treated me.”
[This was one of the most severe and deep-seated
cases ever we were called upon to treat.]
DO NOT BE ASLEEP
TO YOUR SELF-INTEREST.
MANY men are asleep and dead to their self-interest, and especially so are they
in cases where their health is at stake. Many neglect the latter, and fail to
consult the Physician or Specialist until too late to avoid physical bank-
ruptcy or an expensive course of treatment or operation. “TO BFi FORE-
WARNED IS TO BE FORE-ARMED.” That is an old proverb, true in every word
for the man who carelessly looks upon a symptom of disease and discards it.
Now let us talk to you. The Specialists of
the FReeMAN * WRLLAC€
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
are Experts in diseases of Genito-Urinary Systems. We treat them specially by the
most scientific methods. We do not patch up, charge heavily, or professionally hum-
bug. If a man has VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, BLADDER IMPAIRMENTS,
CYSTITIS, KIDNEY TROUBLE, DIABETES, INFLAMMATION OF THE
PROSTATIC GLAND, DYSPEPSIA., CONSTIPATION or INDIGESTION, we
cure in 90 per cent, such cases, provided the patient takes our remedies correctly
and obeys our instructions perfectly. r
Here is a letter extract from a man we took in hand when he considered himself
on the brink of the grave :
“Messrs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,—
Some months ago / was a wreck. My friends considered
my case hopeless. / had little hope when / wrote you and
detailed my case and its cause. No one would have thought /
had any great chance of living another 12 months. Your treat -
ment has reversed my hopes, and has wrought wonderful
changes. I am now fairly strong and well, and have given
proof of that strength In many ways. / recommend the treat-
ment and your methods because / believe you to be Specialists
In your particular lines of disease. "
We Cure Men to Stay Cured .
The Diseases which the Specialists of THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
INSTITUTE particularly treat are those which affect the Genito-Urinary systems.
These are their Specialities, and they at all times delight in treating cases incom-
petently treated by general practitioners. When they cure a man he is cured to stay
cured. Blood Poison, Varicocele, Rupture, Cystitis, Prostatic Affections, and other
dangerous diseases come within the scope of the Specialistic Staff, which includes
FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS. Consultation
i 3 free, because in the public interest no charge is made for friendly talks which may
lead to ultimate, permanent cure.
Special invitation is given to those who have tried all sources for relief, and failed.
DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., who is registered by Australian, English, and
American Medical Boards, is Physician-in-Chief. Medical books of 600 pages, treating
particularly upon the diseases from which men suffer, will be sent FREE to any
applicant on receipt of letter or post-card, or given without any charge whatever to
those who call.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
Cor, Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts . Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute; * AND AT MELBOURNE
Dr. Richard Wallace, M. J.. Physician-in-Chief ; Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Dept, of Women.
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical I v.nial
says“ Benger’s ic od has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own."
m
For INFANTS , MNMI/OS. and the AGED.
EENGER’S FQOD IR SOLD BY CHEMISTS, Ac., EYERYWHESS.
Benoer’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
w. A. Holman’s Bill to compel N.S.W.
writers to attach their names to newspaper
articles is in essence the Governor Darling Bill of
1827. The Governor’s Bill was designed to pre-
vent “persons not known” from issuing news-
papers. One of the penalties in Darling’s Bill
was that an offender might be fined, imprisoned,
or banished from the colony and its dependencies.
Julian Salomons, several times within the last 20
years, tried to legislate against “unknown”
pressmen, but failed.
Thus S.M. Herald’s Wellington (M.L.)
correspondent, concerning Premier Seddon : —
He has grappled with many complex political and social
problems, and has placed on the Statute Book a mass of
unusual and experimental legislation. . . . He has easily
negotiated the rock of compulsory arbitration which
wrecked two Federal Governments ; he has made a bold
attempt to adjust the differences of capital and labor ; he
has established the principle of compulsory acquisition of
private estates for close settlements, and its ally, advances
to settlers ; he has provided old age pensions ; he has
established State fire insurance and opened State coal
mines—and he and his colleagues and their constituents
have seen the total trade of the colony grow from a valve
of about £16,000,000 in 1890 to something like £29,000,000
in 190h.
Still in every other issue the Herald is of opinion
that the inevitable result of Socialistic legislation
is to “paralyse trade.”
“ Wat Tell ” : As a teacher I have been
using the Australian School Readers almost daily
since they were first published, and agree with
many other teachers in thinking Reader IY.
about the worst of the series. The Bulletin
(20/7/’05) says : “ In a school reader there should
be no more chance of error or misprint than there
is in a bible.” Yet Reader IV. has many mis-
prints and grammatical blunders. Take, for
instance, the following : —
He got up and went to Pomponianus, and the rest of
his company, who were not unconcerned enough to think
of going to bed, they consulted together. —Page 89.
In the position, in which he was now holding his head,
I ought to have hit him between the nostrils and the eyes,
which was impossible.—Page 34.
This hornet has the reputation of being a very ugly
customer, but I found it no trouble to live on the most
friendly terms with them.—Page 178.
“ Its base rose and sunk," and “ A strong breeze sprung
up.” —Lesson XXVI.
I called out to them, as best I could in their language
and also made signs to them that I was willing to give
myself up to them.—Page 266.
And many more silly blunders of a similar
description. In bush schools Reader IV. is
repeatedly read from cover to cover by the higher
classes, and the elder children become utterly
wearied with the constant repetition, and lose all
interest in their work.
News comes from Stringer’s Creek vicinity,
Gippsland, of an attempt on the part of a zealot
named Hodgeson to wake the dormant religious
feeling of the natives, and get up a boom in
baptism by immersion. He so worked upon the
feelings of several foolish people that they agreed
to be immersed in the open before a ribald crowd,
with the result that the penitents were shockingly
afflicted with colds. However, the victims think
they are even now, as Hodgeson is himself in a
bad way. He was leading his latest convert into
the creek on a dull afternoon about a fortnight
back, when suddenly he went out’ of sight. As
he did not re-appear within a reasonable time,
well-meaning people began pawing about in the
»ud and slurry at the bottom of the creek in
quest of him, and at last a local pig-breeder found
his hair amongst the mud. Half a dozen volun-
teers helped to pull the revivalist out, but it took
a deal of hauling, as he had crowded Into a
hole that had once contained a pile. He was
only revived after the rules for the apparently
smothered had been vigorously operated for half-
an-hour. The revivalist is . still a-bed, and the
bottom has to some extent fallen out of the
baptism-by-immersion boom.


l?r, Sydney
THINGS FOR YOU, SIR!
T^ E^E not an article shown hern that *i ftoe ,
purpose, and men who want to be £ond ?n JL * Ser , Ve a l,seful
a way will no doubt find thesehints'he?nf»? t! ?® mse,ves °”ce in
where goods possess a Hie f V ol * want to buy
Newest Designs—where larira r y ’ embracin & the
tion easy, and where is^navknrf“a' n i 3 mes mahes selec-
je sold—you will find these most desirnhL aS , 0W ? s fine & ood3 can
□AWSON’S. We post at STEV/ART
aonmg what you are most interested ,„ Write for our Catalogue, men-
“hwminMnHMM
" i'#;
N°. E1019.-White Porcelain and Solid
Silver Shaving- Mug, Us 6d.
No. G4Bss.— Silver-mounted
China Shaving Mug, 5s 6d.
No. G2(>22.—2 Gent.’s Silver-
mounted Brushes, with
Comb, in Leather Case, 30s.
Write for our Illus-
trated Price List.
No. F7l96.—Solid Silver Tobacco
Box, for the Pocket,
£1 17s 6d.
No. G7s37.—Gent.*
9ct. Gold Signet
Ring*, £l ss.
Silver-mounted Doeskin or Kan-
g-aroo Tobacco Pouch, 4s 6d •
Initials, Is extra. Antelope
Skin, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
No. G4725.—Ha11-Marked
9ct. Gold Saw Pierced
Medal, 17s 6d.
No. G3927.—Real
New Zealand
Greenstone and
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, 7s 6d.
No. 257.—Silver Sove-
reign Purse, 70s 6d.
Gold, £2 10s.
No. G. 4723.—9 ct. Gold
Medal, 17s 6d.
No. F7098.—9ct. Gold and Greenstone Gent.’s
Pendant, 22s 6d.
No. F3966.—Gent.’s Handsome Solid
Silver Hair Brush, £1 2s 6d
No. G47os.—Solid Silver Ink
Well, 14s 6d ; smaller, 12s 6d.
No. G7o3S.—Solid Silver-mounted Shaving-
Paper Holder, 17s 6d.
Cheaper styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d
No. E9265.— 501id
Silver Shaving-
Brush, 13s 6d.
Plain, 12 6d.
No. G2s96.—Very Strong- Solid Silver Pocket Fruit Knife, 8s 6d.
9ct. Gold Tie Clips, 6s 6d.
No. F 7416. —9cfc. Gold Tie
Clip, 14s 6d. Larger sizes,
in Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
Double Silver Chain, Hall Marked on every Link,
8s 6d. Heavier, 10s 6d and 12s 6d.
No. 1’309. Gent, ’s Leather Watch Guard, Silver
Mounts, ss. Gold Mounts, 14s 6d.
No. G3929—G01d and
Greenstone Links,
iSs 6d pair.
No. G34ol.—Silwr-p.aLcd Shaving Mug with Brush, 21s.
fsd
No. Gs294.—Silver-
plated Mounts, Fine
Quality Shaving
Strop, 8s 6d.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
George St. & Strand, Sydney.
FRIED KRUPP
AGORUSONWEtt
i fy
PATENT
BALL MILLS
For Wet Grinding LEAD, TIN,
COPPER and GOLD ORES.
111!
• .xiKPMstS’
Can be
crushed
to any
Size ac-
cording
to Screen
adopted.
Capacity
Large,
Horse
Power
and
Water
Con-
sumption
Small.
WET BALL MILLS are in use at many
Lead, Silver, Tin, and Gold Mines
All Over Australia .
25 MILLS IN USE AT BROKEN HILL ALONE.
Jb(c
NOYES B
Melbourne Sydney
Brisbane Perth
\ Dunedin NZ


A
/
f
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
subm.t to amputation ; but do not, for I can cure you. I
don t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
ltisno reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a cei tain cure of
Bad Legs,Housemaid’sl<nee,UlceratedJoints, Carbuncles
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites,
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Pre; ared by ALBERT, 71,
Farnngdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look foe the Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
cn a green label on each box. (Registered Copyright).
iljfiili
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building', Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course .you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Writo for Catalogue!
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
The Paradise
II of Childhood
Trade
Mark
“ Childhood is the hap-
piest period of life.”
How tragic, then, when
the little one has to spend
the happy days of child-
hood on a bed of sick-
ness ! Or, without being
downright ill, the poor
little soul may be cruelly
distressed with childish
ailments, which render it languid
or fractious—a burden to itself,
an anxiety to its parents. If all
mothers, only knew how easily
by the aid of Scott’s Emulsion of
cod liver oil with glycer-
ine and the hypophosphi-
tes of lime and soda the
troubled- little one can
be made strong, joyous,
full of overflowing life !
The happy experience of Mrs.
A. M. Halls, of Fitzroy Street,
sdf
Burwood, N.S.W.,
is worth notic-
ing : On Septr.
2nd, 1904, she
wrote to us: “My
baby, aged four
months, had
been undersized
and delicate from
birth. He had a
dreadful cough
and was so ill
that I had small
hopes of ever
1 rearing him.
1 From the first
dose of Scott’s
Kmulsion I no-
ticed an improve-
ment. It agreed
well with him
and has built up
his system so
thoroughly that
he is now as fine
and healthy a
child as you could
wish to see.”
Scott’s Emul-
sion is the only
form of cod
liver oil which
can be taKen
without nausea
and is bound to
digest, however
delicate the
baby stomach
may be. SCOTT’S EMULSION cures
rapidly, and is therefore economical
In the truest sense.
EVERY PARTICLE IS DIGESTED,
EVERY PARTICLE DOES GOOD.
Write to-day for a free sample bottle
{enclosing 4d. for postage and mention-
ing this paper) to Scott & Bowne, Ltd.,
483, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
m
OF
z
KIONEYS, liven ANO SOWCU.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
C^3
Q
r C
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
THE CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch —7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
: Uv/ MAcqy/\i\t £ ’ s
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
the ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
IT is well known that the climate of Sydney is delightful in winter, but it is not so well known
that the Blue Mountain air is best of all—crisp, bracing atmosphere, sometimes frosty
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW BATH HYDRO
us a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor; baths and
massage; most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required ; an entertainer for general
.amusement; a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU ;
GO, IF YOU WANT A ■ SPELL ; or
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
__ MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe? Plenty of vou
'business-men are making money at the expense of your health. Spend a little on your health as
iBi .gO©Q investment.
TERMB—From £2 2s. upwards.
Arnold White believes profoundly in the
Japanese menace to Australia. In a recent review
article he writes :—
Mastery of the Pacific means that Australia, the richest
European possession in that ocean, will be attacked and
may fall a prey to the Japanese. Expansion is necessary
for both the Chinese Empire and for Japan, and cupidity
will be the guide of invasion. That Japan will suffer the
competition of British and American trade in the Far
East a day after she feels herself strong enough to exclude
it, is incredible.
Signs of the times ! The first pawn-
broker’s shop has been opened in Bloemfontein
(Orange Free State). Under the old Republican
Government pawnshops were not allowed and not
required, but they always follow the Flag.
Vic. geological director Dunn reports the
discovery of a quaintly thrifty person dwelling on
the Taedto Creek goldfield. This man owns a
handy little reef which runs 3oz. to the ton, and
whenever he wants to settle with the butcher or
grocer he steps into his back paddock, dollies off
a few hundredweight and squares up. At other
times he simply saves up the reef as an asset,
having no hunger after riches. As a specimen of
that Socialistic tendency which prevents capital
being brought into the country he is unique. His
obvious duty is to float his reef into a big com-
pany, sell his shares for a large sum, and then lose
the money in a shaky bank.
Referring to the debate in the British
Parliament on the Aliens Bill, Glasgow Evening
News says
Mr. Emmott spoke of this “ alien immigration bogey.”
If Mr. Emmott will go to the East End of London he will
find notices on the Underground Railway printed in a
foreign language, a theatre where the plays and actors
and actresses are foreigners, where the language on the
stage is foreign, a foreign newspaper, notices in the shops
in a foreign language, and if he asks the first person he
meets which is the way to Epping Forest the response
will probably be a shake of the head, as the person may
not understand a word of English. While all this is
taking place in the East End of London, thousands of
English artisans and laborers are leaving Liverpool every
week for America,
The Sydney Labor Council intends to sup-
port the Shop Assistants’ Union in an endeavor
to gain a universal Saturday half-holiday. As
arranged at present the holiday business is a
muddle. Wednesday afternoon is of little use to
anyone, while Saturday would give a worn-out
shopman a chance of a few extra hours consecr,
tively from labor. If Thursday were made the
fixed pay day for wages, shopkeepers would suffer
no loss, as housewives would make their weekly
purchases on Friday. Thursday would be a better
pay day than Saturday in any case, as the hard-
drinking father would not then have a clear half-
day in which to drink his wages, and the sporting
father would not have the same chance to immedi-
ately lose his pay on “ stiff” ponies.
. The British Australasian (London),
which is on the spot and knows, or ought to
know:—
Mr. Reid’s and his friends’ anti-Socialistic campaign has
effected no other object than to prejudice Australia still
further in this country.
The same paper says that the best thing that has
happened in the way of smashing the Six Flatters
lie and the Petriana perjury in England is the
action of the Westralian Labor Government in
taking out a small party of assisted immigrants.
Bushels of figures and gallons of argument were
helpless to smother the Stinking Fish lie that
immigrants were liable to be tossed overboard at
the first Australian port; but Westralia’s practical
move has knocked out the old fiction wherever the
two have met.
The State Governments appear to have
adopted a policy of systematically harrying the
Federal Government for larger and larger pay-
ments for the carriage of mails on the railways.
They already get £250,000 a year, and are far
from satisfied. Of course it makes no difference
in actual cash whether the States get £100,000
more for mail carriage, and consequently the same
amount less in the division of the Federal surplus.
But it makes the earnings of the State railways ,
look more. (Chorus of State Premiers : “See how
the railways are improving under our manage-
ment!”) Also, it makes the Federal expenses
look more. (Chorus of State Frights: “Owing
to gross Federal extravagance the expenses of the
Postal Department are now very much greater
than when it was under State control! ”)
“ Alone ” sends this :—
A sneerful superior person throws large pieces of scorni
at Bent re his Elwood swamp scheme (B. 3/8/’05). Bent
does not deserve to be hit with them. I claim to know
at least a little about that vigorous Parliamentarian, and
a good deal about the unbeautiful bog. In the past, full*
of enthusiasm, buns and lemonade, I chased the joys of
various Sunday-school picnics round about its landscape ;
and of later years I have lived and inhaled ozone in its
vicinity, and fallen into it continually. I rise with plea-
sure to say that Bent deserves nothing but credit for try-
ing his hand on its reclamation. An absolutely useless
bog is being converted into more or less drv land (quite
as dry and habitable as a good deal of Port Melbourne,
South Melbourne and the city itself), and, even if a littl®
money should be lost, the man is more than justified.
There would be just as much sense in shovelling con-
tumely on the men who reclaimed the bogs and gullies
that used to make the landscape about Elizabeth and
Flinders streets, Melbourne. Some people, having
acquired a habit of throwing things at a man for being
an unsuitable bank director, keep on throwing, and dis-
courage him, even though he takes a shovel and goes to-
work filling up fens.
The Bulletin doesn't know who Neili
MacGilp is, but it publishes this letter on sound
general principles:—
That utterly forlorn and futile body, the miscalled
Political Reform League, has latterly been dragging
wearily around the back districts of Otago (M.L.) seeking
to win converts to the most disconsolate (and not the-
least dishonest) political gospel ever preached for the en-
snaring of ignorance and greed. The preaching is very
badly done, and the chief apostle of the gruesome gospel
is John MacGregor, of Dunedin. So far as Otago is con-
cerned, the Political Reform League consists principally
of John MacGregor ; away below him, it is diluted in the-
average to about the intellectual flavor and consistency
of Neil MacGilp. MacGregor is regarded by the simple
leaguers as an orator. He isn’t. He is applauded in the
back parlors of muddledom as a genius. He’s not. He’sjust-
a lanky, political delusion with a wagging jaw and a badly-
diseased ambition ; and because Richard Seddon found,
him out he’s incurably sore. MacGregor’s object, and
the object of his snuffling league, is to down Seddon, It-
is much as if some heckling old dowager in busted
goloshes set out to down Mount Cook. There need be no-
special consternation among the admirers of the mountain.
Letter from a Monkey firm to Brisbane
Show committee :—
Itami, three-day, July. Thirty-eight maijh
Mr.cer, of Exhibitions.
will from your house to Exhibitions to By said for depart-
ment of agriculture and commerce but can was speak me
from it department and we are be made the- product of
powder-potatoe and con give to sample send you and it is
goods to please look at them and it goods to put-in of
renting a Room what wanting your can me to mony But
that room to me want, cheaper as possible and what with
it wages in all and you can give me to something tell me
and as soon as possible to mony I can send you the—End.
Letter of invitation of nature goods to- powdered
potatoes.
The manufacture of powdered potato made in Tookawa
and Co., anditamo-cho, hiogoken, Japan.
The Japan is most noted for the product of potatoes
itami-cho, kiogoken, Japan, and made in Tookawa & Co’
The powdered potatoes to Best good eat them But use
eat to 10/3 and sugar 10/7 and water boil and it aii will
does with take eat to not at all and be sweet very good
and be body fast strong I assure you to has no serious
complaint But do make eat cake or bread and-your can
give me to the goods.
Yes, these Japs are learning English very quickly.
The Foreign-trader who says that the
natural industry of this country consists of turning
some sheep out into a paddock and letting them
breed, might do worse than chew the report of the
which inquired into locomotive
building. The first 10 locomotives built at New-
port cost £3364 each, the second 10 £3048. The
difference is the gain through training men and
finding out how to do things. A third 10 would
probably show a further gain. But the Foreign-
trader says that, if a country that hasn’t trained
its men, and doesn’t know just howto do things,
and doesn’t know exactly what plant is wanted,
can’t compete from the jump with countries that
have been at the business for years, they shouldn’t
compete at all—they should just go on turning
sheep out into a paddock and smoking on the
fence while they watch the wool grow.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams,
CONSULTATIONS.
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Canterbury Park, N.S.W., October 2 - f \ |
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 21 ... f,™
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Vie., November 7- - 100,000 at 5/2, and 100,000 at,lo/4 eac .
MELBOURNE CUP (Special), Flemington, Vic., November 7 ... (drawn morning of race) 100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. . Parcels may be forwaraed through any PA
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia. __
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
ALWAYS TRUE
sdf
ALCOCKS TABLES
KEEP YOUR.
BILLS DOWN
By
Purchasing
YOUR CLOTHING
FROM
Cincoln, Stuart
$ Co.
Ctd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Wri e for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Heaine
Cure
the 3?*.AiIVEO"ID"S »~3T 37* <3 IT.
■ g—-».- JC JTSuX’KJfcW •—«■ •
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND ION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANYL
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence.June' *. c ]ds 0 ' the Qhest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is moat com-
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those' are C oughor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither alio ws g without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should
and a Complete Cure is certain. rAR-H OP COUGHS'
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
.magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
but have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.” ■
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
i “ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle‘of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“ j W as laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“ It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
c/o A. H. Massina & Co.,
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“For nine years my wife suffered frdm Asthma and
Bronchitis, i'tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is auite well now, and has never had an attack since.
1 A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from.
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
J W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
1 E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
. “ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever
fflken ” I). WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect what-
ever " T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free fiom
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you-’
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is all you describe it to be.”—
Yours most respectfully, R. J. M‘CLELLAND, _
Red Jacket, via Walhalla, Victoria.
" I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis' Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.”—CHAS. WYBROW, Enochs
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”—
P. P. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkery, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
’result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.” —
G, SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often had to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present free-
dom, as a'direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.” HOOD
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
Phis medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
i friend of mine of a very bad
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron
jhitis Cure without delay, as I find it to he a most val
Me medicine.” j SLATER,
Warragul, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have ha d occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and certify that it was pe
Eectly and rapidly successful under circumstances wh^
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power.
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong ana
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG,
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY. GKGO
BRANCH DEPOT— Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. TeloobA
VICTORIA.


Say: I will,
I will to=day,
\
I will to=day try
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
MONKEY BRAND
FOR SCOURING
KITCHEN TABLES AND CHAIRS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For Liver Complaints, Obesity, «o.
The “VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.”
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with similar quantity
of hot or cold water.
s
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre
Part of the Label.
THE SCIENTIFIC CURE FOR
INDIGESTION.
From Mr. James Joshua, Catherine Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, N.S.W., 6th March, 1905.
“ For fully a year I had suffered acutely from indigestion, headache and biliousness. I could
scarcely eat anything solid without having to endure great pain. My rest at night was greatly dis*
turbed, and this made me very irritable. I was under medical treatment for some time, but derived
no real benefit from it. Having heard of the good effects of Warner’s Safe Cure, in the cases of other
sufferers, I decided to give it a trial. After taking the first two bottles I felt considerably better, and
a few more bottles thoroughly cured me. lam now in the best of good health.”
From Mr. W. H. Samson, Haydonton, Murrurundi, N.S.W., 11th January, 1905.
“ I suffered very much from indigestion for a considerable time through always being in the bush,
and, of course, living on rough food. Many a time I have sat on the edge of my bunk at night unable
to lie down, the pain being so great in the pit of my stomach. I felt *•? if there were a great lump
there. Hearing that Warner’s Safe Cure was a cure for indigestion, 1 took a few bottles, with the
result that all pain left me and I was again able to eat, sleep and work well. Some of my mates also
take Warner’s Safe Cure and speak well of it.”
From Mr. Michael Kerrigan, Church Place, Malop Street, Geelong, Vic., 28th August, 1904.
“ Two years ago I was conscious of a loss of nerve power and a falling off in mental activity. I
was in a distressingly dyspeptic condition, and suffered severely from frontal headaches. At first I
did not pay much heed to these symptoms, but when I found that I was gradually getting worse and
the headache attacks more frequent, I thought it was time to do something to restore my health.
Speaking to a friend one day about my condition, he advised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did so,
with rapid and marvellous results, for in a few weeks I was quite free from all symptoms of dyspepsia,
the pain in my head ceased, and since that time I have had no trouble with my health. I have recom-
mended Warner’s Safe Cure to several others, who have taken it with great and lasting benefit.”
From Mr. John O’Shea, 59 Pine Street, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th March, 1905.
“ I have much pleasure in bearing witness to the beneficial effect of Warner’s Safe Cure on my
health when I was suffering from indigestion, biliousness, and general weakness of the entire system.
For a long time I was conscious of a want of nervous energy, and my mind seemed sluggish. My
sleep, though usually sound, was never restful. For months I suffered in this way, never feeling
really well for two days together. I felt more fit for bed than for business. Having been advised by
a friend to take Warner’s Safe Cure, I did so. After taking one bottle improvement was noticeable,
and in a few weeks the medicine gave me new vigor and vitality, so that I was enabled to discharge
my duties with spirit and zeal.”
From Miss Lena Montgomery, 178 Flinders Street, Adelaide, S.A., 22nd September, 1904.
“For several years I had been a martyr to indigestion, accompanied by severe headache and
biliousness. My greatest suffering was after taking food, when the pain was so intense that I became
reluctant to eat. There was always a fulness and a sense of oppression after meals; in fact, every-
thing I ate gave me great pain. As a natural consequence I grew weak and exceedingly nervous. I
tried nearly every known means to obtain the ease I longed for, but without avail. Finally Warner’s
Safe Cure was recommended to me. The effect of the first few bottles was wonderful, and in a short
time I was quite cured. I can now enjoy my food without any fear. I strongly recommend anyone
suffering from indigestion to give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial.”
From Mr. J. G. Smith, corner of Chum and Maple Streets, Golden Square, Vic., 19th August, 1904.
“ For many years I suffered as only those can who are victims to incjjgestion in its chronic form.
Almost everything I ate gave me excruciating pain, which would continue for some time, and I
became very irritable and despondent. Nothing gave me permanent relief until I tried Warner s
Safe Cure, which proved to be the right thing in the right place, for it has completely and per-
manently cured me. lam now in the best of good health, and although sixty years of age I can take
my shift in the mine and put in eight hours’ work almost as well as any man.”
From Mr. T. Lloyd, 36 Hart Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney, 13th September, 1904.
“ I suffered for months from indigestion and biliousness. I tried several remedies but found no
benefit from them. I was telling a friend of my trouble, and he said, ‘ Why don’t you try Warner’s
Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills ? I suffered the same as you are doing and they cured me.’ I felt
doubtful, but decided to take his advice. The first few doses of the Safe Cure made me feel sick, but
I persevered, and am thankful I did, for when I had taken three bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, and a
phial of Warner’s Safe Pills, I was cured, and able to enjoy my food again.”
From Mr. Charles Smith, 300 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th March, 1905.
“ I had been suffering from biliousness for several years, accompanied by extreme weakness and
prostration, but I paid little attention to it, attributing my condition to overwork. It was not until
indigestion, followed by confirmed dyspepsia, afflicted me, and my strength began to fail rapidly, that I
commenced to search for some remedy to give me some relief. I tried various preparations, but it
was not until I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure that relief came to me. I persevered with the
medicine, and in the course of a few weeks was quite restored to health,”
A treatise explaining fully why Warner Safe Cure cures indigestion will be sent post free, by
H, H. Warner and Co. Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Vic. [5
Buy a Gun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN you’ve reckoned up yer losses, an’
your winnin’s backin’ ’osses,
When you’ve ’ad ernough o’ football
an’ o’ wine;
When you’ve read the scores o’ cricket, tired o’
talkin’ o’ “th’ wicket,”
Will you listen to this little song of mine?—
I’m a sojer o’ salvation, an’ I wanter save the
nation,
Let the music play, an’ wave the Flag on ’igh !
Let the people come an’ listen, an’ let nobody be
missin’,
For a sojer wants to preach and testify.
An’ it ain’t erbout the “Father an’ the Son,”
But Australia’s got to fight an’ wants a gun !
Wants a gun—she’s empty-’anded; wants some
togs—she’s nearly stranded—
Won’t you ’elp your bloomin’ country—won’t you
buy yer land a gun ?
O ! the belt won’t go no tighter, an’ the ’eathen’s
goin’ to fight ’er,
Ay, the Japs are goin’ to plug ’er, an’ the Chil-
dren o’ the Sun ;
An’ she’s stranded, empty-’anded, an’ she badly
wants a gun !
There’s four million people playin’ and they
ougliter start a-prayin’,
Get converted ’gainst the day o’ wrath to come;
An’ I don’t want to alarm yer, but you’ll ’ave to
go an’ arm yer-
Selves —you’ll never keep off bullets wi’ a drum.
An’ you’ve done a ’eap o’ drummin’, but the enemy
is cornin’,
Would you be a cur an’ turn your back an’ run ?
If you’re not a mug you shouldn’t, and if you
know you wouldn’t—
Don’t you think you’d better go an’ buy a gun ?
If Australia’s got an empty water-bag ; if she’s
trampin’ round’ the country wi’ a swag,
Still be men. What are ye made o’ ? What on
earth are ye afraid o’ ?
Can’t ye give up backin’ ’orses ? Can’t you buy
yourselves a gun ?
If you’ve got a kid an’ love ’im, by the blazin’
stars above ’im,
Won’t you give up smokin’ cigarettes an’ buy a
smokin’ gun ?
There is you that’s made some money in this land
that’s wide an’ sunny
(Clear the crowd away an’ let the carriage pass—
Bow before the Customs rotter; give Au stralia to
the squatter,
An’ don't disturb ’is sheep upon the grass !)
But you’ll ’ave to guard your plunder when the
’ills are belchin’ thunder,
Or you’ll want a mighty motor-car to ride away
from ’ell !
Wi’ your country s blood and vitals you are
buyin’ empty titles,
But you ought to buy an army corps, an’ ships
and guns as well!
Can’t you see she’s got ’er back agin the wall ?
Ain’t you got no bloomin’ principle at all ?
Oh ! you’d pilfer an’ you’d pawn ’er, an’ you’d get
’er in a corner,
An’ you’d dress ’er up in titles when she mostly
wants a gun !
0 ! the belt won’t go no tighter, an’ th’ ’eathen’s
goin’ to fight ’er—
Ay ! the Japs are goin’ to plug ’er, an' the Children
o’ the Sun,
An’ you’ll want to sell your motor-car an’ buy a
motor-gun !
Buy a gun ! buy a gun!
By the writin’ on the wall we’re wantin’ one.
Buy a gun ! buy a gun !
O ! Australia, sleepin’ lazy in the sun !
Cadgin’ rations day by day
At the stations by the way,
Ain’t you game to tackle honest graft an’ try an’
grow a gun ?
tas.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.
“Business is Business.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EONEY and Son’s clearing sale was in
full swing, and Mr. Roney, senr., stood
at the door, rubbing his soft, unhealthy-
looking hands together, and smiled beautifully.
The autumn sale was an annual institution in
the establishment of Roney. Once a year he
sought to rid the firm of much old-fashioned or
faded stock, by means of judicious ticketing, and
other contrivances.
It was a time of much business for Roney, senr.;
a time, also, of much business for the Recording
Angel up above, but that is another matter.
Two new customers approached the busy shop.
They walked one behind the other like two sheep.
The first in file was a stalwart, strong-minded
farm-woman, whilst, endeavoring to hide behind
her, walked a gauche young girl, apparently a
dependent or poor relation, The girl wore a home-
made hat and gloves that weren’t mates, and
looked about as self-conscious and miserable as
though she didn’t wear anything at all.
Roney’s eye shone with pleasurable anticipation ;
and he bowed and smirked, and purred around
them with the affection of a sleek kitten greeting
the rabbit-man.
“What’s the price of this yere?” demanded
the farm-lady, indicating a brown jacket cut of a
period outside the remembrance of fashionable
woman.
“ The sale price of that article, madam, is 14s.
fid.”
“Go on ! The bloomin’ thing’s all out o’ date.
Wuth about eighteen pence it is. I wanted some-
thing che*p, just to wear in the yard.”
As a business man, Roney, senr., had a fault,
and this annoying remark called it into active
service. .
“Now, that just shows your ignorance,” he
spat, fiercely. “That jacket cost £2 10s. origin-
ally, and I’ve knocked off 355. 6d. just to please
my old customers. It’s just a dead loss to me.”
“ Keep yer dea* loss,” snorted the farm-woman,
“ I won’t deprive yer of it.”
“I wouldn’t sell it to you, indeed, to wear in
the cow-yard,’’ cried Roney, in childish rage. “A
lovely thing like that—fit for a countess. I prefer
to keep it for people who know the proper uses of
things, and can appreciate a great sacrifice when
they see it.”
This outburst was greeted by a murmur of ap-
plause from two prim old ladies, who gazed in
cold horror at the farm-woman, and afterwards
bought the jacket themselves. Roney, junr.,
hastened upon the scene, to make peace with the
farm-woman.
Roney, senr., swallowed his temper with diffi-
culty, and turned to the unwieldy girl who stared
timidly at him.
“What sort of gloves did you say, my dear?”
he cooed softly. “French kid ?”
The girl blushed guiltily, and tried to hide her
wretched hands, upon which his eyes were fixed.
She hadn’t said gloves or anything else, but the
shame of her shabby appearance was strong in her
heart, and she had not courage to resist.
“ I-I will see s-some cotton gloves, if you
p-please,” she stammered, nervously; “but I
really don’t want any.”
But the cotton gloves were in a box on the very
top shelf, and Mr. Roney was a little frightened
of the steps, and a deal more frightened of the
trouble.
“No young ladies ever wear cotton gloves,” he
remonstrated, sweetly—“ only extremely com-
mon people, such as washerwomen. Now there’s
a pair for you. I can do you those for 7s. 6d., or
we’ll say 6s. 6d. for a pretty girl like you.”
The pretty girl cleared her throat with a terror-
stricken sound, and answered in tremulous tones :
“ I don’t like that color—a-a bright green, they
wouldn’t look nice.”
“ A girl with a complexion like yours could
wear a rainbow, or a bird of Paradise, or any-
thing,” Mr. Roney assured her in an oily voice.
This piece of delicate flattery increased the
poor relation’s confusion, and she nearly fell dead.
The farm-woman was now fighting Roney, junr.,
to the death over a drab jacket at 6s. 9d.
“ I’d really—l’d—l’d rather not,” she pleaded,
helplessly.
Roney shrugged his shoulders in a pet. It
seemed as though he was never going to get those
hideous gloves off his hands.
“Try these,” he lisped, softly, pouncing upon a
lavender pair belonging to a size that sold very
slowly.
They were three sizes too small for the girl, and
his practised eye knew it at once, but “ business
is business ” was Roney’s motto. He made a pre-
tence of fitting them over her knuckles, purring
happily all the time, and exuding flattery as
mechanically as he breathed.
“ A splendid fit,” was his verdict, and he folded
them hastily in a piece of tissue paper, and fell to
rubbing his hands once more, till the girl thought
they must certainly strike fire.
“Now, anything in the way of perfume, my
dear? Of course, all beautiful young ladies love
perfume. What is a rose without its exquisite
fragrance ? ”
“Oh, please, thank you. I don’t want any. I
really don’t want anything.”
“But, at least, you will let me show you. See,
now, this dainty little French box, only 15s. 6d.,
but,” lowering his voice to the confidential level,
“ I’ll let you have it for 10s. 6d., only you must
not breathe a word about it.”
The girl protested that she didn’t want scent,
but old Roney rushed it on to her while she waved
her hands, and tried to explain, and fried in her
own blushes. The farm-woman and Roney, junr.
were now fighting over a dirt-colored jacket at
ss. 10|d.
The blushful girl was as clay in the hands of a
potter, and Roney hurriedly sold her some lace,
and stockings, and studs, and sundries.
“The boss seems to have a fairly good thing on
over there,” said Roney, junr. in a pause to the as-
sistant. ‘‘ He must have sold two or three pounds’
worth to that girl, and I don’t believe she wanted
to buy anything. Holy smoke ! What’s hap-
pened ? ”
The shy young lady had at last induced Mr.
Roney to cease supplying her with goods she
didn’t want, and he paused with a beaming smile.
“ Two pounds two,” he murmured gentlymaking
out a little bill and handing her a parcel.
The girl hung the parcel on her wrist in an absent-
minded manner. An obstruction rose in her
throat. She stood staring at Mr. Roney with the
look of a dead girl and tried unsuccessfully to
speak.
“Two pounds two,” repeated Mr. Roney, re-
placing his pen gently behind his shell-like ear.
The girl, thus admonished, fished out her purse
with a shaking hand, and taking out sixpence
laid it on the counter.
“ Two pounds two, two pounds two! Dear, dear
me, two pounds two ! ” Roney raised his voice
almost to a snap.
“It’s all I’ve got,” stammered the girl, and
moved to sudden terror by the expression of
Roney’s face, she backed like a horse into a small
table of artificial palms, upsetting the whole
ricketty show, and smashing the earthenware pot
which held the plants to fragments.
Uttering a shriek she plunged forward again,
but tripped upon a banana-peel that some criminal
had dropped, and fell clawing wildly into the lace
counter near by, tearing off a whole knoll of half-
unfurled lace.
Startled by the sudden clamor, Roney, junr ,
and the assistant ran forward whilst some people
who had just entered strolled up curiously.
“Keep her back—don’t let her get away,”
shrieked Roney, senr.
His words suggested a plan of action to the des-
Eerate girl, who already, in imagination, felt the
and of the Law on her collarette and heard its
harsh exhortation to “ come quiet.”
With a few strong bounds she reached the door,
overturning the puny assistant on her way, and
followed more or less closely by half the contents
of the lace counter, with which she had become
entangled.
Pausing for one moment at the door to kick her
feet free of their lacey trammels, she dashed into
the street, the hue and cry at her heels, and the
tiny parcel still unconsciously hanging from her
wrist.
A few doors up, a fine horse was tied outside a
pub., waiting impatiently for his thirsty boss
within. To gain him she felt was her one hope of
safety. But the feet of Roney, junr., were patter-
ing on the pavement very close behind.
But she ground her teeth together and strained
every muscle, and with bound after bound, like a
wallaby in flight, reached the startled horse,
and, breaking the rein from its ring, sprang into
the saddle like a bush girl pursued by furies. She
rode astride, just like a man, and walloped the
horse with the parcel like a demon.
A policeman, who suddenly approached, clutched
frantically at the bridle rein, but the brute, in-
fected with the excitement of his rider and
delighting in his freedom, wheeled about on his
hind legs, flinging the bobby in the road, and de-
parted in a cloud of dust.
Who owns that’orse ? ” roared the dignitary,
arising from the earth in wrath.
“ Him,” responded a small boy, pointing to a
man who propped himself up against the door-
post, and smiled weakly.
Roney, junr., didn’t wait to see the end of that
play. He took a last look at an object far up the
road, which was fast becoming a speck on the
then hurried back.
k 1 his serves the old un dash well right,” he
remarked to the assistant as they entered the
shop. “He’s too jolly smart for anything.”
In the shop Roney, senr., sat alone, glaring in a
species of fascination upon the sixpence. The
expression of his face had cleared the establish-
ment of customers in 10 seconds. The farm-
woman had cast the jacket m the dust and gone
to look for her lost drudge and poor relation.
“ Have you got her ? W-where is she ? ” Roney
whispered hoarsely to his son.
“ Quite safe. Don’t you trouble, dad,” tittered
Roney, junr.
“ Where —where ? ”
“Very near home, I should think, by the way
she cut it out.”
Roney raised his soft white fist and struck the
sixpence again and again in the impotence and
blackness of his passion; while from his tongue
flowed inarticulate sounds that suggested a very
large cat spitting.
. But the glass doors swung open and admitted
six customers all in a bunch.
Mr. Roney adjusted his eyeglass and tried to
arrange his disordered smile; but the creature
that glared into his eyes from the mirror opposite
was too much even for his feelings, and he sneaked
off into a back room with a stricken, weary air.
VIC.
WONGA.


df
BILE BEANS-THE BEST REMEDY
IT is well to remember that at this season, of all others, the human system needs to
be toned up and put in thorough condition to withstand the change of the season.
BILE BEANS for BILIOUSNESS are the very best medicine that can be taken
for this purpose, as they cleanse and regulate the liver, an organ to which may be
traced nearly all the minor ailments so many people suffer from. If the liver is not in
thorough working order the blood is impure, the circulation
sluggish, the digestion impaired, the sleep disturbed, and the
complexion sallow. The consequence is that there is a lack
of energy, and the sufferer becomes a victim of “that tired
feeling.” To be out of sorts in the Spring is most trying, as
many people know. If you are feeling “run down,’ and
without any energy for work, take BILE BEANS for
BILIOUSNESS, and they will put you in a condition that
will withstand the changeable Spring weather.
Miss Cecalia Monaro, of 10 Lackey-street, St. Peters,
Sydney, says :—“ About twelve months ago I began to
suffer from intense depression, severe headaches,
and tired feeling. For days I was utterly
prostrated, hardly able to move, and in no
way capable of attending to my usual duties.
The most racking pains were in my head, and
at times I thought I would go mad. My joints
ached continually, and I was very bilious. Seeing
Bile Beans advertised I was induced to give
them a trial, and was overjoyed, after using
nearly a box, to find a decided improvement
in my condition. Six boxes completely restored
me to health, and those of my friends who
see me are astonished at the change. lam
at present in the enjoyment of the best of
health, am vigorous in mind and body, can
eat heartily, and indulge in refreshing sleep.”
111
BILE BEANS are a SAFE FAMILY MEDICINE and PROVED CURE for
BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES,
DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANACMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, LOSS OF APPETITE, PIMPLES,
and ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS, SPRING AILMENTS, and, in fact, all ailments that
owe their origin to a disordered liver, assimilation or digestion. Obtainable generally
at Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (containing three times the Is. size).
¥ f
*
A. ®> F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
E&otice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
. that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels*
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Melbourne Revisited.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE, but four iron ships and two long
“ liners,”
To speak the wealth of nations over-sea,
And much regretted all those brave designers
Whose wide-winged clippers first in ’fifty-three
Bore o'er two oceans tons of gold our miners
Wrested from Mother-Earth when all was free.
No more our “flying-kites,” our racing packets,
Our “Marco Polos,” “Lightnings,” and “Red
Jackets.”
Yet why so much regret a Golden Past
To-day but grey Tradition —nothing more ?
Here now the “land-fall ” and the Port at last,
The wished for and the loved, familiar shore ;
No desert coast-line whereon to be cast
Spells Desolation as in days before,
As Selkirk on his island sadly landed
To find himself alone, a Triton stranded.
And here we are once more, our voyage ended,
The trams roll past; bright flash the nickeled
“ bikes,”
With forward-leaning riders ; broad backs bended,
Their crank-like legs akimbo ; much it strikes
The calm beholder’s eye, those lank limbs blended,
Met but to part again, and crossed like pikes
In weird confusion at some scene of slaughter,
Or microbes dancing on a drop of water.
What buzz of automobiles ’tis that hums
Careering on their way up hill and down
Oil German-sausage tyres; had I the drums
That Santerre beat his monarch’s voice to drown
I’d utilise them here in streets and slums
To silence such disturbers of the town,
And folk should sing my praise in strophes
Sapphic
For signal services to city traffic.
And Collins-street is Collins-street —the same
Big buildings, little buildings, cabs and trams ;
Though none too lively, not entirely tame.
The self-same stuff, the self-same window crams,
The self-same “posters ” on the hoardings flame,
Footballers, cricketers and gross prize-rams
Stare from the walls in every picture-paper
To charm, arrest and trance each languid gaper.
The crowd’s still very much the crowd we knew ;
Her pale, familiar face the Town Hall clock
Still wears, and stares down on the motley crew
That swarms along the pavement past the Block.
Some on the right side, some the wrong ; ’tis true
Most take the wrong with now no Duke to shock;
For, who would stop a lady to correct her
For rule ignored ? Not e’en a street-inspector.
See into Mullen’s rolls the same gay tide.
The self-same tide is rolling out again,
And murmurs as it’s spreading far and wide
With books upon its bosom ; food for brain,
And some for Fancy ; some to pleasure Pride,
Or please the pious ; while, in endless chain,
Reels out the pictured lore that much enhances
The joy of all that love our old romances.
These be the Melbourne streets ; see two, see all;
The one shows shops, and fashions, journals,
clubs,
Some leading doctors, dentists, and a. Hall;
The other, work-shops, warehouses, and pubs,
The humbler restaurant, the “house of call,”
And breweries with vats and foaming tubs ;
The greater, boastful, chic, aristocratic ;
The smaller, quite as rich, but democratic.
I ne’er yet loved a city . . . no, not I,
Half well enough to choose it for a home,
"Where smoke and piles of brick obscure the sky,
And asphalt only tempts one out to roam
For exercise or something he must buy :
Give me the trackless bush, the salt sea foam—
. Although indeed down here the sight of shops is
.Not quite beyond the scope of my synopsis.
\IO.
G. G. M‘C.
De Umbris
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is a horrible day. All yesterday it
rained, all last night, and all this morning,
and everything is drenched. A little while
ago it stopped, and two of the chaps went out into
the soaking bush to try and get a pig. We are
out of meat.
I don’t know how they stand the racket, year
after year; always shifting about, getting wet,
swagging heavy loads, and living roughly.
They are back without anything—except the
theodolite with the box full of water. A wonder
it did not float away. The theodolite is my chief
instrument of torture, and I will rejoice exceed-
ingly when it floats out of my life for ever.
A man that takes on the Government Survey in
Maoriland is one of the biggest fools on the
planet. You get back into this cursed bush with
a gang of wretches like yourself, and year in and
year out you explore for ro*ds, run back-lines,
traverse ridges and cieeks, receive circulars, eat
old boar and spuds, feed mosquitoes, and slog your
soul out in isolation—and all for a beggarly screw
that no merchant would offer a decent clerk.
You never leave the bush, except for about six
weeks in winter, when they bring you in to do
your plans. Time was when they promoted the
older men, but now office-men generally get the
high billets which used to go to the senior sur-
veyors, anu the grey-haired “field” men are left
to hang out miserably in the bush, like spectres
roosting on damp tombstones.
Let every man who has sons keep them away
from the Survey—awry from the bush. Let no
man be deceived by any flapdoodle about a
fine healthy, natural life.” To send a boy into
the’Maoriland bush at the present time, m any
service or capacity, is both cruel and wicked.
The diet is meagre, unwholesome, and badly
•cooked ; the conditions are terribly severe, and
the whole life is hideously barren, unhealthy, and
, unnatural.
PAKEHA.
The Twelve-Quid Show.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JIM SUDELEY was foreman engineer
on the Outpost mine—silver, lead, etc. —
and considered that he earned his money.
Jim was not a Scotchman—a race to whom,
according to accredited stories, boss-engineering
jobs are a natural heritage—but an Australian.
That he ought to have been Scotch and the inevi-
table Mac something is obvious ; but anyone who
said he was a Caledonian might meet the fate of
Ananias at any moment. So things must needs
remain as they are.
Jim was smoking musefully one afternoon shift,
and watching the driver oiling round. The driver
was a new man on the mine, and Jim noted with
sub-acid amusement the interest he took in that
disgustingly familiar knock which thudded so
relentlessly at each revolution of the mill engine.
When the man had finished, he gave his hands
a professional wipe with a piece of waste, and re-
turning the same to his jacket pocket, approached
Jim with the obvious intention of friendly con-
verse.
“Knocks a bit, don’t she?’’ he remarked,
cheerfully, as he produced his pipe and a cake of
tobacco.
Jim nodded.
“ Where did they get her ? ”
“ Oh, over at the Hill, of course,” replied Jim,
nodding towards where, above the horizon, a dark
smoke, blue by day and a pallid flare by night, be-
tokened the locality of Broken Hill.
“ Picked her up pretty cheap, I should judge?”
suggested the driver sagaciously, as he lit up.
“ Got her off the bargain-counter at one of the
big drapery sales, I believe. Know old M‘Minn?
Mac reckoned he would have had her himself only
he had no small change about him.”
The driver opined that Mac was a tough propo-
sition, and Jim continued in reminiscent vein.
“ She was a high-pressure winder in the old days,
somewhere, and when these people got her they
were advised by their ‘consulting engineer’ to
compound her. I’d as soon compound a felony.
’Twasn’t quite a fair deal, you know, but honest
men don’t plant their beastly virtue in mining
transactions. If the Outpost crowd were as wise
as they are willing, they’d have got a real service-
able engine for what that clattering old dispensa-
tion has cost them, first and last.”
At this juncture a new knock suddenly became
apparent to the trained ears of the two men. A
knock which sprang from nothingness as it were,
and neatly bisected the pauses between the old
knocks. It grew louder, and Jim walked over and
pulled the mill bell rope, and waited. The driver
put his knife handle between his teeth, the tip of
the open blade on the cylinder, and putting his
thumbs to his ears and his little fingers to each
side of the knife blade, listened intently. _
At this moment the mill shift boss arrived like
an allegorical figure of Haste, inquiring, “What
in all ’L is the matter now ? ”
“ Get your load off, Billy,” said the imperturb-
able Jim. “ I’m going to stop.”
“Well, she is hot stuff !” remarked the vexed
shift boss as he flew back to his mill, and got all
feed shut off, belts run on to loose pulleys, &c., so
that the mill might run itself empty, thus prevent-
ing the choking of jigs, vanners, &e., when the
engine stopped. The stopping of a concentrating
mill without ringing the load off is the star crime
in this class of work.
Presently he reappeared and nodded to Jim.
Jim nodded to the driver who was “standing
by,” and who immediately shut off steam; Jim
directing him, as the engine slowed down, to
“stop her on the inner centre, low-press side.”
In a few minutes a fitter and some laborers
arrived, a tackle was slung, the cylinder cover
whipped off, and the slackened nut behind the
piston head tightened home.
“You’ll never make a lady of her, Jim,” said
Billy West, the shift boss, as they stood watching
the men hurriedly tightening the cover nuts.
Jim assented.
“ And that’s her good side, too,” he remarked.
In a few minutes everything was ready, and,
after a preliminary pull at the bell-rope to warn
the mill hands to stand clear, the driver got his
engine running as before, minus the new knock it
had developed.
Billy West was explaining elaborately to Jim,
from inspiration obtained, that if he “ had the
running of the cow ” he’d have her “ lined up,”
also “re-bedded,” as well as provided with “new
brasses—and a bigger flywheel,” he added, gener-
ously, as an afterthought.
Before Jim could acknowledge these vital hints,
he was summoned by a profane blast of entreaty
from Lijah Trevor, underground boss, who in-
formed him that the cage was at the poppet-heads.
Jim softly remarked “Dam,” and went with
him to see about the matter.
As luck would have it, the damage done was
very small, and things were easily put right, so
that Jim lent an indulgent ear to the driver’s
chronic curse upon the debilitated brake. He was
then condemned to acquire a good deal of specu-
lative knowledge as to the correct method of
handling a winding engine, gearing the drums,
&c., from Lijah Trevor.
Jim listened in silence inscrutable, and bade
Lijah good night.
“ I’ll be back in a bit o’ while, ef yourn mind to
wait, an’ shaw ’ee wot I mane,” roared Lijah after
the fleeing Jim.
Passing the mill engine-room Jim looked m to
see how the driver was getting on. He found
him standing at the door to get the breeze, and
polishing his iron-grey curls with the usual hand-
ful of waste.
“ How’s things ? ” inquired Jim, looking round.
He noticed an oil drum slung over a main bearing,
with a trickle of water running from it, and a con-
fusion of spanners lying near the crank.
“ Real good ! There hasn’t been a thing wrong
since you went but a hot main bearing, the set
screw out of the big end cotter, and the main belt
slipping. I say, she’s a bit of a surprise packet,
isn’t she ? ”
“ Well, some might look at her in that light.
“ Think she has anything else up her sleeve ? ”
“I should say—yes. She’s generally pretty
giddy by the end of the week, but seeing that
you’re a stranger, I suppose she’s studying appear-
ances.”
“ Well, that’s thoughtful of her, anyhow. Oh,
I forgot to tell you. The fireman was here a
while back, looking for you. Reckons that one
of his boilers is leaking like billybedam—l think
he’s an Irishman—and his feed pump’s dead
crook. Contemplates stealing his boy’s squirt
to-morrow to supplement the feed pump.”
“ I wish he’d thought of it before. The feed
pump’s not in very good nick.”
“Well, Pm blowed if you’re not a—an optimist
or something. What sort of a show do you call
this, anyhow ? ”
“ A twelve quid show.”
“ And what may that be ? ”
“ She only runs when lead is twelve quid or
over, and not always then.”
FITFUL.


For Old and Young
Public School Teacner 39 Years. Overworked. Completely Pros-
trated. How to Get Strong and Weil.
FB ■
Mr. 11. C. Bret-
ten, Rozelle-Bal-
main, N. S. W.,
sends tlie photo-
graph of himself
and grandchil-
dren, and says:
“As a result of
overwork I be-
came completely
prostrated.
Friends advised
me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I did
so, and before the
first bottle was
used I was able
to get up and
dress myself. Be-
fore I had used
three bottles my
appetite had re-
turned, and I was able to walk freely. Whenever I feel poorly I take a few
doses of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and lam all right again. I have been a public
school teacher for more than thirty years, and I can truthfully say that I
believe Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is as good for the young as for the aged.”
This testimonial tells two remarkable things about Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
First, that it will cure people when they are very ill indeed, “completely
prostrated,” as Mr. Brettell says. It also tells how valuable a medicine it is
when one is not very ill, simply “feeling poorly.” The reason for this is
because Ayer’s Sarsaparilla goes right to the foundation of things. In every
oase it first removes all impurities from the blood, and then renews and
builds it up. This brings good appetite, sound digestion, strong nerves, and
robust health.
It is “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla you want, not some new, untried kind. Get
the old, genuine, original Sarsaparilla, “Ayer’s.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Prepared by DR. J. C* 4YU CO.* I-awell. IfltaM., U. ft. A*
- Li L_
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne*
Totephono So. 10IS. s^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
■elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and fc * r 0 e g d t fQ * Banquets and
Private Balls f£^ ftbla Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sixes Supplied.
AMUSE THE CHILDREN.
and young.
MAGIC LANTERNS.
No. 21, with 12 Slides, If inches wi'de, 4 views on
eaoh, will show a good clear picture, 12/- post
free, anywhere ; others, 2/-, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6,
7/6, 30/-, 35/-, 60/- each.
THESE ARE REAL GOOD VALUE.
STEAM sad CLOCKWORK ENGINES, All Prices.
Send for Circular No. B.
(I. & A. BOYES, IRONMONGERS,
241 & 243 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ttnkenncsg
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Da. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing' sleep ensues. My oure will
sarprise and delight you.
ONB OF MANY:
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
* cure. I have no detire for drink, in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Tours gratefully, R-O.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address •
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using:
o? R I CO RO’S
is
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most wcci-t and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra,
Is. and Is. 6d.
Agents for Australasia — PEßßY & CO., 4-7 Queen St.,
Melbourne; N.S. W. —Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be.' Thousands Cured Annually. Remed>-
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we chared
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHIELINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYHE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDa
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &C. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNS
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Ohborodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ONE CUP OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Contains more nourishment than
10 cups of any ordinary cocoa.
Absolutely free from
Chemicals.
“It is able to support
Life »” — Lancet.
WEAK MADE STRONG!
Try Our ELECTRIC BELT, with
SUSPENSORY Attachment.
A
Price TWO GUINEAS.
IT Animates the sluggish
circulation, Stimulates
the Brain to Activity,
and fills the body with
Life, Ambition, and En-
durance. It furnishes the
Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banisheo Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Cata-
logue Post Free.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
B °OK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book
SENT. FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Eliabethl
street, Sydney.
sdf
sd
fs
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcame Deafness
sand Head Noises, no matter of
'how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal,
ixplanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
Don't you think so ?
When a remedy has been before the publie for over sixty
years; when it has cured where other medicines failed;
when it has brought relief to thousands of sick all over the
world; when it has carried health to the suffering, hope to
the despondent, and strength to the weak—don’t you think
such a remedy is a safe one for you?
Beecham’s
Pills
are without an equal for dispelling all disorders oi the
Stomach, Liver,
Bowels and Kidneys.
They act swiftly, gently, and thoroughly. One dose of
BEECHAiTS PILLS will relieve the most distressing
symptoms. Taken as directed, they will quickly restore
health and strength to the entire body. Year in and
year out BEECHA/TS PILLS prove every claim made
for them. That is why they are
Worth a Guinea a Box.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, ST. HELENS, ENG.
m
A
There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
'
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
I
31111
P
IVER
PILLS
TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dote. Small Prims
and
f
A CARD .
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
M.8.C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.Q.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University of Edinburgh ; Member of the General
Council of the Universh y of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent and Visiting Surgeon to
four of Australasia’s Hbs] itals : Surgeon-in-Charge of Troops, South African War; Author of “ Mind Over Mat-
ter,” “ The Diseases of Men and Women,” etc., may be consulted personally or by letter, FREE, at his consulting
roolnS, “EL.MLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confidential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in all Disease#
of Men and Women, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Ski, & Urinary Complaints,
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. Also
Copies of ,f The Diseases of Men and Women,” posted FREE to any address on receipt of six stamps.
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
A Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients received at Dr. Martin’s Private Hospital, and special “Mention
given to all eases .that have .failed to get relief elsewhere.
MARTIN, IJX,
“ Elmley House/' 151 Elizabeth ; S W City*
(Please mention this paper when wilting.)


smiey
Rubber Works.
nANL'FACTURHR3 OF
SHEET ftUßagft FSVS3ZR RINGS
WASHERS ROLLER 3
VALVES BUFFERS
GAS TUBING, antt Every of
MECHANICAL. RUBBER GOODS.
WORKS:
Cary St., Off Bfrksnhsad Roacf.
CITY OFFICE :
Perdrfau
*3
. .. ■ \j j
oQ*!f
270 Osorg-e St., Sydney.
A Policy for the
Com 'lion orealib.
PRSCE, 6d. ; POSTED, Bd.
5
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensers, Feed Y eaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
sf
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
sd
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MAR Vs*
V OhlF
mbb
WOLF
07
■i :
•T. & .T. MATFTFLT*. Proprs., FTTEFFTFLT).
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Aleo et—
“ TSEaOES 33.£*.0'£J3aC,”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms with additional cases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
ft
“ Independence,
IS THE BRAND OF
PERFECTLY BALANCED
ood Split Pulleys*
SOLD BY
PARKE & LACY CO i Ltd. „
60 CLARENCE STREET ,
SYDNEY..
All sizes in slock . Write for Prices.
KNOWLES
STEAM PUMPS
of all kinds,
Inger soil-Sergeant Rock Drills
and Air Compressors,
Morris Centrifugal Pumps,
ENGINES AND BOILERS, '
Horizontal and Dertical,
Engineers Fittings,
PARKE & LACY CO, Ltd,,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY:
Write for Prices and Particulars,
"UTOPIA”
. SAVES .
MONEY, TIME, LAPP
It is the name of an
AUTOMATIC VYCE
that no joiner or fitter should
be without.
Descriptive Catalogue on
APPLICATION TO
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
sous
RiU
First-Class
Stores
nr Australasia.
mmmmmmmamrn mm
No. 8160.
1 Blade.
Cocoa Handle - . 1j-
BufTalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
v a
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
ora thm
THE BALLET GiEL
f
sdf
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, is
Tht Life, Adventures
and Confasssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Prss, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
sdf
sd
f
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Handle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYISKTEY.
68
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w.' C. ELDKIDGS! & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Ilall).
< ountry Orders by post,Prom ail the colonies promptly
attended to.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
)
AN receipt of P. 0.0.
” forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
9ct. COLD-FILLED
BROOCHES, with either
Bell, Heart, Anchor or Gross Pendant, guaranteed the same
quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6. In 15et.
G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illus
trated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully addressed
to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade,
Melbourne, Vic.
HAVING specially selected from the world’s best
markets the latest in HARD FELT HATS, I am
able to offer values above the ordinary.
sdfsdf
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2 —An equally fashionable
Hat, at 8/6, in five different
shapes.
No. 3 —A superior Hat, beauti
fully finished, Pure Pur, at
10/6, in five of the latest
shapes worn.
4 is a high-class Bowler, showing in ten distinct
shapes, Fashion Fancies, 12/6, quality
No. ‘
Country Customers post your orders to—
d
RUSSONS, r7 La7£p^
msn
Size, 51" x 3£" x 5",
We are Direct importers
sind have
for Sale—
ƒd
Call sizes
for all
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
K. 1m SCRUTTON & CO„ Ltd.
97 OLAREKTCE STREET, SYOMEY.
CARD CONCENTRATOR. RAHD AIR COMPRESSORS.
Slugger and Little Giant Rock Drills. Imperial Pneumatic Tools.
Pu lsometer Engineering Co.’s Pumps of all kinds.
Lister Electric Motors and Dynamos. Panklast Dry Crusher.
N. QUTHRIDGE. LT
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
486 Collins St., Melbourne.
Dealt m MINE MACHINERY and Supplies - Manufacturers of RACKAROCK »
