

BRANDY.
U
GRAND SUPRE
PIG” STOUT (Guinness’)
K. a. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Ulning' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
.EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fm
HOBAH T.
&(?f,
Ijadlegs Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTIN
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
MoXjarexk’a Compound. Steam
System.
For Illustrated Lists
and 'full particulars
apply to ----- -
TRACTION- ENGINES for Haulage and Genoral_ Diroet Working on the_ Engine
Steam Ploughing Tackle, &c., See.
LARGE STOCKS
ON HAND AND TO ARRIVE.
GIBSON, BATTLE &G° »85Pitt st., SYDNEY.
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
dsg
WHISKY
C H|j |F^
Luc
ks
THE ROTAL
LAMP.
sd
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
EDISON & Mi
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depdt:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
I sed soltanr ’ WnioKfr'
sd
CONTINENTAL MOTOR TYRES.
Wallace Continental Cycle Tyres.
AT ALL MOTOR AND CYCLE DEPOTS. N.S.W. BRANCH: 7 WYNYARD STREET , SYDNEY.
sdfg
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
NO
TEA
LIKE
OtiRS!
1/3
fd dfd
2/6
DAILY
TREAT!
TOOHEYS LTD.
BREWERS, WINE A SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
ana CORDIALS.
sďdgsd
ƒdfd ƒ
No Other in
the World *
f gd
EQUAI.S
‘SIMPLEX
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
|No Worry or Trouble
no LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
Ne Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Goulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
Bottom
In Every L
PRICE LIST PER I
WHISKIES.
Highland Park
Usher s Special ..
Buchanan's Special
ďfd
fgd
fd
CHAMPAGNES.
Louis Roederer.. 5/ 21 10/
Dry Monopole .. 5/2£ 10/-
Poinmery .. .. 5/2/ 10-
Piper Heidsieck... 5/2J 10/-
Perrier Jouet .. 5/- 9/9
Krug .. .. 2/6 4/9 9/6
Vict’r Cliquot 2/6 4/6 8/6
LIQUEURS.
Absinthe (Pernod’s).. 7/-
Benedictine 5/-
Cherry Brandy .. .. 6/-
fdg
df
IMPORTED LAGERS.
Munich dark .. .. Bd. 1/1
Elberield 9d. in
Franz Josef .. .. 9d! 1/1
HICHARBSON’S,
158 RUSSELL ST.,
Next BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HEIXIDON SPA —"Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
.V0126.—N0. 1314.]
[Thursday, April 20, 1905.
Registered at the General Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Geo. Robertson & Co.
Prop. Ltd.
Chatham (English Statesmen Series), 2s 6d, post 4cL
Forrest, Cities of India, Popular Edt., 6s, p. 6d.
Women Painters of the World; finely illustrated; size
12 x Sin., 6s, postage lOd.
Coventry Patmore (Literary Lives Series), 3s 6d, post 6d.
Doyle, The Return of Sherlock Holmes, paper 2s 6d,
cloth 3s 6d.
Ls Queux, Sins of the City, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d.
Smiles, Self-Help, new ed., illus., 3s 6d, post 6d.
Pinero, Wife Without a Smile, Is 6d, post 3d.
Hairless, The Grey Brethren, 3s, post 4d.
Wright, The Home Mechanic, 7s (id, p. Bd.
Anthony, Complete Bridge Player, 3s, p. 4d.
Wellesley, With the Russians in Peace and War.
Coates, The Practical Hypnotist, Is 3d, p. 3d.
Oxenham, Gate of the Desert, paper 2s 6d, cloth 3s 6d, p. 6d.
71 CASTL.EREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and LONDON.
GOOD
PICTURES.
Editions de luxe.
Phil May in Australia; 21s.
On the Hop, 21s.
VERSES.
A Southern Garland. Collecting' the work of
Quinn, Mack, Church, Hebblethwaite, and
O’Dowd. A handsome volume, with fine portraits
of the authors represented, 4s. 6d.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles, by W. T. Goodge.
Paper, 2s. 6d.; cloth, 3s. 6d.
AUSTRALIAN
STORIES.
The Bulletin Story Book, the best collection of
Australian short stories, 4s. 6d.
On Our Selection, and Our New Selection, by
“ Steele Rudd,” 6s. each.
OTHER BOOKS.
Such is Life, by Tom Oollins, 4s. 6d. ; At Dawn
and Husk, by V. J. Dasey, 4s. 6d. ; The Bulletin
Reciter, 4s. 6d. ; Fair Girls and Gray Horses,
and Hearts of Gold, by Will Ogilvie, 4s. 6d.
each, etc. For full list see The Bulletin Book
Circular, post-free on application.
From all booksellers ; or posted by The Bulletin
Newspaper Company, Publishers, 214 George-
street, Sydney, in return for remittance.
BOOKS.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great ..
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
!For the Cure pf
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected long'-
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
\ MEDICAL GAZETTE 1
says ; —
\ “ Of great service in
, affections of the
' voice and throat.
W HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES'**
(Registered). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, g^ney
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on rec.eip London.
Depot: 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Recent
THE RED PACE.
J. K. S.
SO, he wrote, “I wish to sign my name,” and
thus he has been beloved by many genera-
tions at Eton and Cambridge. Naturally
for Eton boys and Cambridge men, and for
the whole tribe of English public school and uni-
versity men, his verse has intimacy and a savour
sweeter than it can have for us; yet by us also it
may be prized. To miss its gay message is to miss
a rare literary pleasure.
The friends and contemporaries of James Ken-
neth Stephen did not anticipate that he would be
remembered only by liis occasional verses. He
was scion of a distinguished stock : his father an
eminent English judge; and the way to a high
career was opened by social and legal connections.
But only a short life was given to him : he died in
1892, shortly before completing his 33rd year. A
collected edition of his work, with a portrait and
brief memoir, is published by Macmillan and
Bowes, Cambridge, at ss. net. It should have no
dusty place in choice Australian libraries.
It is difficult by quotation to express the charm
of J.K.S. as a writer of light verse. His infec-
tion of mirth is caught rather in his mental
atmosphere than in isolated stanzas: although
some of his lines, meeting with a phrase a
popular mood, have become common property;
and some, like
When the Rudyards cease from kipling
And the Haggards ride no more,
have been staled by continual quotation. The
sonnet for Wordsworth is scarcely less familiar :
Two voices are there : one is of the deep;
It learns the storm-cloud’s thunderous melody,
Now roars, now murmurs with the changing sea,
Now bird-like pipes, now closes soft in sleep :
And one is of an old half-witted sheep
Which bleats articulate monotony,
And indicates that two and one are three,
That grass is green, lakes damp, and mountains steep :
And Wordsworth, both are thine : at certain times
Forth from the heart of thy melodious rhymes,
The form and pressure of high thoughts will burst:
At other times—good Lord ! I’d rather be
Quite unacquainted with the ABC
Than write such hopeless rubbish as thy worst.
Perhaps the spontaneity of Stephen’s verse is
the quality that differentiates him from illustrious
comrades : his lines seem to happen artlessly in a
mind at play. If the form be good, is is less
because good form is sought than because good
form is the natural evocation of a cultured intelli-
gence. The humour is rather in attitude than in
expression, though Stephen found an expression
to match his idiosyncrasy. This characteristic
piece is less often cited :
In the Backs.
As I was strolling lonely in the Backs,
I met a woman whom I did not like.
I did not like the way the woman walked ;
Loose-hipped, big-boned, disjointed, angular.
If her anatomy comprised a waist,
I did not notice it : she had a face
With eyes and lips adjusted thereunto,
But round her mouth no pleasing shadows stirred,
Nor did her eyes invite a second glance.
Her dress was absolutely colourless,
Devoid of taste or shape or character ;
Her boots were rather old, and rather large,
And rather shabby, not precisely matched.
Her hair was very far from beautiful,
And not abundant : she had such a hat
As neither merits nor expects remark.
She was not clever, I am very sure,
Nor witty nor amusing : well-informed
She may have been, and kind, perhaps, of heart;
But gossip was writ plain upon her face.
And so she stalked her dull, unthinking way ;
Or, if she thought of anything, it was
That such a one had got a second class,
Or Mrs. So-and-So a second child.
I do not want to see that girl again :
I did not like her: and I should not mind
If she were done away with, killed, or ploughed.
Sh£ did not seem to serve a useful end :
And certainly she was not beautiful.
Maybe it is a faint pulse that beats in
Stephen’s verses; maybe there was a hidden
weakness in his thread of life, early severed.
But his later verses are the better : in maturity
he was finding strength.—-This short notice may
close with one, of his more'serious pieces.
, Blue Hills.—An Allegory.
Years ago,-in theland of my birth,
When my head was little above the earth, •
I stood by the side of the grass-blades tall, '
And a quickset hedge was a mighty wall,
And a measureless forest I often found
In a swampy acre of rush-clad ground :
But, when I could see it, the best of the view'
Was a distant circle, those Hills of 81ue...
As a child I sought them, and found them not,
Footsore and weary, tired and hot ;
They were still the bulwark of all I could see,
And. still at a fabulous distance from me ;
' I wondered if age and strength could teach
How to traverse the plain, the mountains reach ;
Meanwhile, whatever a child might do,
They still were far and they still were blue.
Well, I’ve reached them at last, those distant Hills ;
I’ve reached their base through a world of ills ;
I have toiled and laboured and wandered far
With my constant eyes on a shifting star :
And ever, as nearer I came, they grew',
Larger and larger, but, ah ! less blue.
Green I have found them, green and brown,
Studded with houses, o’erhanging a town,
Feeding the plain below' with streams,
Dappled with shadows and brightened with beams,
Image of scenes I had left behind,
Merely a group of the hilly kind :
And beyond them a prospect as fair to view'
As the old, and bounded by Hills as blue.
But I will not seek those further Hills,
Nor travel the course of the outw'ard rills ;
I have lost the faith of my childhood’s day ;
Let me dream (it is only a dream) while I may ;
I will put my belief to no cruel test :
As I doze on this green deceptive crest
I will try to believe, as I used to do,
There are some Blue Hills which are really blue.
“AND OH! HER VOICE ”
C I TTRVEYING with Dr. Havelook Ellis on
April 6
(Studies in the Psychology of Sex, voL 4 ; Phila-
delphia, F. A. Davis Co., 10#. 6 d.)
the relations of the human senses to sexual selec-
tion, we paused before Hearing. There are con-
nected with Hearing a great many whys and
wherefores that perplex scientific pundits.
The sense of rhythm—on which it may be said that the
sensory exciting- effects of hearing, Including music,
finally rest—-may probably be regarded as a fundamental
quality of neuro-muscular tissue. Not only are the chief
physiological functions of the body, like the circulation
and the respiration, definitely rhythmical, but our senses
insist on imparting a rhythmic grouping even to an
absolutely uniform succession of sensations. It seems
probable, although this view is still liable to be disputed,
that this rhythm is the result of kinassthetic sensations—■
sensations arising from movement or tension started
reflexly in the muscles by the external stimuli—impres-
sing themselves on the sensations that are thus grouped.
We may thus say, with Wilks, that music appears to
have had its origin in muscular action.
Rhythm stimulates work. Soldiers march to it;
sailors heave to it. It is rhythm, not tonality,
that is the aboriginal essence of music. Groos
points out that “a melody gives us the impression
of a voice that dances ; it is a translation of spatial
movement into sound.” Dancing, music, and
poetry were primitively so closely allied as to be
almost identical. The technical use of “foot”
may be urged to show that a poem is funda-
mentally a dance. W. Cyples emphasises the
motor stimulus of music: “There appears to be
no doubt whatever that it gets all the marvellous
effects it has (beyond the mere pleasing of the ear)
from its random but multitudinous summonses of
the efferent activity, which at its vague chal-
lenges stirs unceasingly in faintly tumultuous
irrelevancy. In this way music arouses aimlessly,
but splendidly, the sheer and as yet unfulfilled
potentiality within us.”
One musical note may be stimulating, apart
from rhythm, as proved by Fere’s experiments
with his force-measuring and fatigue-measuring
machines. Scripture found that, While his own
maximum thumb and finger grip with the dyna-
mometer is 8 pounds, when the giant’s motive
from Wagner’s Itheingoldis played it rises to 8|
pounds. But some music is depressing—discords,
for example. Most, but not all, minor keys are
depressing; most, but not all, major keys are
stimulating. Different performers produce dif-
ferent results. Thus, in our own experience,
Wiegand’s organ-music at Sydney Town Hall
roused combative instincts ; the present organist
makes one extremely thirsty.
Tarchanoff and others have demonstrated that
music not only affects the chief vital processes,
but also the secretions. It increases perspiration.
It may produce a tendency to tears ; and the
learned Scaliger reports the case of a Gascon gen-
tleman who was compelled to go and wash his
hands whenever he heard bagpipes.
“ Why are musical tones in a certain order and
rhythm pleasureable ? asked Darwin in The
Descent of Man, and he concluded that the ques-
tion was insoluble. We see that, in reality, what-
ever the ultimate answer may be, the immediate
reason is quite simple. Pleasure is a condition of
slight and diffused stimulation, in which the heart
and breathing are faintly excited, the neuro-mus-
cular system receives additional tone, the viscera
are gently stirred, the skin activity is increased ;
and certain combinations of musical notes and
intervals act as a physiological stimulus in produc-
ing these effects.”
Animals of all kinds are susceptible to the
sweet _and bitter influences of music. Experi-
ments in Bond. Zoological Gardens with perform-
ances on various instruments showed that no
animals except seals were indifferent, and all felt
a discord as offensive. The violin and the flute
were preferred by most of the animals, which
showed marked likes and dislikes: thus, a tiger,
who was obviously soothed by the fiddle, was in-
furiated by the piccolo. (There is a piccolo player
at Balmain who should be introduced to that
tiger.)
Ji JX
Then Ellis, having laid his general foundation,
proceeds to the specific illustration of his subject,
and with studied caution believes that “we may
attach a considerable degree of importance to the
voice and to music generally as a method of sexual
appeal.” He quotes Mantegazza, who declares
that “ some women’s voices cannot be heard with
impunity”—which explains one’s desire to hit
so many amateur vocalists of the mad scene from
Lucia. He quotes Groos’s reference to the im-
portant part played in German women’s novels
by. what one of them terms the “bearded male
voice,” and instances Maggie Tulliver’s suscepti-
bility to a commonplace bassqin The Mill on the
Floss. He quotes Swift: ““Does not iElian tell
how the Libyan mares were excited by music ?
(which ought to be a caution to modest women
against frequenting operas).”
Ellis concludes this section of his work by
quoting the remarks of a musical amateur (Aus-
tralian ?) on the point whether married women,
other things equal, sing better than single.
Sexual excitement and good singing- do not appear to
be correlated. A woman’s emotional capacity in singing
or acting- may be remotely associated with hysterical
neuroses, but is better evinced for art purposes in the
absence of disturbing sexual influences. A woman may,
indeed, fancy herself the heroine of a wanton romance,
and “ let herself go ” a little in singing with improved
results. But a memory of sexual ardours will help no
woman to make the best of her voice in training-. Some
women can only sing their best when they think of the
other women they are outsinging. One girl “lets her
soul go out into her voice ” thinking of jam-roll, another
thinking of her lover (when she has none), and most, no
doubt, When they think of nothing-. But no woman is
likely to “ find herself ” in an artistic sense because she
has lost herself in another sense—not even if she has
done so quite respectably.
But this misses the point: which is that, just
as the onset of puberty alters the physiological
character of the organism, stimulating it to fuller
life, so often does marriage; Many an unmarried
woman tends to wither and decay, her voice
sharing in a general physical failure. But.
marriage expands a bud into fullest bloom, with
often a real accession of vitality; and the more
complete and intense the emotional life, the
greater is likely to be the emotional value of a
singer. For the fact, compare George Meredith’s
description of Lucy Feverel as girl and woman ;
for the art; mark the distinction between religious
and voluptuous music drawn by George Moore in
Evelyn Innes.
. 0f course, nobody wants a singer to be married
immediately before the performance.
A St. James's Budget contributor (one of the two
friends who buried Oscar Wilde) ridicules the
stories of his destitution in Paris, and declares
that from prison to death his income was at least
4002. a year. He was surrounded by friends when
be died—a few hours before, while unconscious,
having b6en “received” into the R.C. Church.
Added : “I give it as my firm opinion that Oscar
Wilde was, on the whole, fairly happy during the
last years of his life . . . He talked better than
before. . . What he felt more than anything else
in his * St. Helena ’ in Paris, as he often told me,
was the absence of the smart and pretty women
who in th 6 old days sat at his feet ! ” Elsewhere
a last bon-mot is alleged : He heard the doctors
whispering dubiously about fees when it was
thought he was past hearing, and “Gentlemen,”
he gasped, “lam afraid I am dying beyond my
means.”
In this light the last sentences of De Profundis
seem scarcely so pathetic:
Society, as we have constituted it, will have no place
for me, has none to offer ; but Nature, whose sweet rains
fall on just and unjust alike, will have clefts in the rocks
where I may hide, and secret valleys in whose silence I
may weep undisturbed. She will hang- the night with
stars so that I may walk abroad in the darkness without
stumbling, and send the wind over my footprints so that
none may track me to mv hurt; she will cleanse me in
great waters, and with bitter herbs make me whole.
Poor pretty posing proser.
The Athenaeum quotes the new issue of Mit-
chell’s Neivspaper Press Directory:
“One of the giants of the Australian press” is The
Sydney Herald, founded on April 18th, 1831, with the
motto: “Sworn to no master, of no sect ami.” The
paper is “ immensely wealthy and prosperous,” and “is
regarded with affectionate veneration as one of the insti-
tutions of Australia.”
Yes, we all regard our grandmothers with “affec-
tionate veneration.” The joke is irresistible,
*so one is bound in fairness to add that many of us
would be all the better for a little of the solid
principle and careful accuracy of our grand-
mothers.
An advertiser in Lond. Morning Post asks
foreign newspapers to quote this, and is obeyed :
\ VOUS.—About myself. lam no old gentleman, but
TY very young man of 34 ; clever as Crichton, hand-
some as —myself. So say our public prints. I know the
world’s bill of fare from frog’s.leg to elephant’s foot,, from
milk-puppy to long pig—yes. Can put a bullet through a
butterfly, or, standing at 300 yards, through a man
running across. ’Tis in the papers. The leading Scotch
paper says my writings are “ very amusing.” I am too
seriously serious for Scotchmen. lonce composed a pretty
little burial service, and read it over 14 single and married
parties with very few complaints. Besides minor tongues,
I speak English from Amertcanes'e to haw-haw. I know all
books that are books ; sciences from curves of comets
to eccentricities of women ; politics from beer and
shag to tea on the Terrace ; Vanity Pair from
drawing-room to backstairs,' and could some tales unfold
would freeze thy young blood. But brief let me be, for
space doth cost. I have now no ties to earth save a
little box of relics. I want worry ; confidential work
anywhere. Can write letters fast as Cupid or in War
Office style. In finance I condense solid sovereigns from
the mists of dreamy possibility. From Consols to Kaffirs,
many investors ask my advice. With bricks, and land-
lots I make four out of three. Have no vices except a
lazy tongue. Am an unshakeable optimist, for I have
known perfect love, friendship, gratitude, heroism, and
have gripped hands with Nature’s noblemen. Am a
credulous companion, a lovely listener, for the Ego in my
Kosmos is subdued. All home and foreign papers please
note.—Apply, &c.
This is surely “The Hawker,” here known, now
translated—or a piece of him. “The Hawker”
was a Trinity, of whom one godhead went to
England and one is going ; but the godhead gone
was best. We are sad for his epigrams. How
dull people do hate epigrams !
“It is no light thing,” says The Argonaut,
“ that a brown race has revealed itself, man for
man,, stronger than any white nation ; that it has
taken our best in ventions and bettered them ; that
it has learned of our’wisest surgeons and excelled
them ; that it is patient where we are vacillating
and forgetful; that it is prolific where we are
slow of reproduction ; and that it is economicalpt
energy where we are wasteful and profligate. It
is no light thing, and sooner or later we shall
realise it well.”
London is sprinkled with “ A.8.C.” restaurants
—Crated Bread Company’s. Reported that two
journalists in an A.B.C. shop were having a cup
of coffee. Enter a third journalist: “Halloa!”
he said, “I am surprised to find two leading
literary lights in a humble ‘ A.B.C.’” Answered
one : “ Nothing more fitting. All literature is
made up of the combination and permutation of
A.8.C.”
The question “What is an 8vo?” has been
dodged by an Eng. judge (reports The Academy).
A librarian advertised for Johnson’s “ British
Poisonous Plants ” and received from a bookseller
an offer of an Bvo edition for 6s. The book was
ordered, but on reaching the purchaser it was dis-
covered t;o be not a real Bvo, as the term is under-
stood among book-buyers and booksellers, but a
crown Bvo, measuring 7gin. by siu. The book
was therefore returned ; and the bookseller sued, j
The judge refused to see the difference between
an Bvo and a crown Bvo, and gave judgment for
plaintiff.
“ R.Q.,” too disconsolately, to a friend :
I like the tvay you take Fate’s grim assault;
The bravest souls must ever bear the brunt
Of fiercest fights : when cowards fly, they halt
And meet the foemen front to-front.
For sure, the gods in some ironic mood
A poet made you in an age’When song
Sad lost its poiver to warm the watered blood
Or fire the spirit of the throng.
Put by your lyre that sounds a golden truth,
It may not move dead souls with sweet alarm ;
The roses of the heart—the rose of youth
And love seem spoiled of half tlieir charm.
Romance is dead, and sing you ne’er so loud
She ivill not stir a lash, nor draw a breath ;
The platform liar and the large-eared crowd. .
Save shamed the lady into death.
The world is sick; it needs the poet's lyre.
The poet sings the song he knows it needs ;
It cannot find the path of its desire,
Though he, a calling splendour, leads.
And so, dear f riend, what profited the light
You brought to men from singing realms afar l
Their noon is cold as ever, and their night
Remains unlit of any star.
The sentimental fallacy is obvious. Poets have
no right to eulogy or concomitant cash ; and the
poet who writes with an eye on these things is
likely to spoil his poetry. No ray of light is ever
wasted; and, sooner or later, we all get our
deserts. This seems hard : all justice is hard.
But out of the hard comes the strong : mercy
breeds weaklings. By the way: the cash value
of pilgrims to. Stratford-on-Avon is 10,0002. a
year. There’s the profit of light from singing
realms !
H. W. Nevinson’s new Books and, Personalities
exhibits his talent unfairly. With the exception
of an excellent sketch of Heine, it is a reprint of
journalistic texts which he could easily have con-
verted into literary sermons. The articles are
smooth and pleasant, and inclined to be flat:
there is a want of piercing criticism. One
likes the satire of The Spectator's idea of Ireland,
and there are attractive passages ( e.g ., the plea for
exuberance); but as a whole the book doesn’t
inspire.
Writes “ Beaumont ” :
H. S. Power’s pictures, recently on sale in Sydney,
were some of that young painter’s younger attempts.
Power knew nothing of the sale till he saw your mention.
Power has had three big sales of pictures in Adelaide.
As a boy he had a hard struggle. He went away from
civilisation for five years, on a station, saved enough to
set himself up in a studio, and has been jogging along
satisfactorily since.
S.A. Society of Arts recently established a permanent
exhibition for Adelaide minors. Admission was free, and
it. was expected numerous sales would be made. Result:
Some 3000 visitors ; one sale at 31. 3s. !
ItKCKIVKT)
Toowoomba- Literary Circle Magazine, March. Con-
tents too stiff: writers should be dancers, after Nietzsche’s
ideal. A good paper oil “ Art ”by “ Spica,” spoilt by the
last par. “ Swinburne’s poetry is often very exquisite as
regards form, but he has nothing to express.” 0 Too-
woomba ! f
The Genus Eucalyptus, part 6, by J. H. Maiden (Syd-i
Govt. Printer; 2s. 6d.). Strictly botanical. Discusses
thoroughly E. am-ygdalina (an important species), linearis,
and Risdoni. Plates by M. Flockton.
A.G.S.
CATULLUS.
To you, Catullus, when the ways are mire
And wavers in the wind the winter fire —
Ah, mystic winds from forest deep ! we come
And in thy summer air we find our home.^
Ancient Verona, Sirmio the blue,
And grey-green silvery sea of olives too,
We love ; and listen as the zephyrs wake
In Lydian glee the waters of the lake.
Rome of the long ago, of sunset realm,
We tread in wondering joy, and brim bronze helm
To Romes below that make our moments sweet
And sad with sigh for our own spring so fleet.
Put care away and in this leafy booth
Bring out the roll, gold-bossed with pumice smooth,
Stained with the colour of the purple dusk,
And perfumed with faint amber and old musk,
And you Catullus, read of sounding stream,
And calm Diana, and the foam-born dream,
Venus with Nereids in crowds as thick
As blossoms when the heart of Spring is quick.
Sailing the seas for her enchanted isle.
Oaring our way past chaining arms the while,
Our galley murmurs of the woodlands dark
And flower-white dryads slipping from the bark.
Of Lesbia then sing—sing of her bower.
Her rosy kisses and the hapless hour
When on her breast her sparrow chirped no more,
And left her mourning for the silent shore.
And chant again that last lament for him, -
Thy brother gone ; and we with violets dim,
And morsel of the comb, will strew him well.
And cast the earth and cry : “ Hail and farewell.”
T.
J. H.


d
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., L
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
ďgfd
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. "W
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. s^SYDNEY.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTINC GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
'IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
RUGBY OUrfc ASSOCIATIOISL
"™*™X"ROVA L -
'‘OftTßr.
8 i
V.MfJ
IM
"l
m
P/a
1/I*# * \'W*
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal " Match Footballs, 7/8.
NICHOLSON’S “ Royal ” Hand Sewn Match, 9/8
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “Special Royal" Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N. A.,” 14/8
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “ Grasshopper ” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“ DIADEM " Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival," Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance," Association Match only, 15/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
Solid Leather, No. 1
» „ 2 ..
.. 3 ..
.. „ 4 ..
„ Match 11.
RUGB *
ASSOCIATION.
Solid Leather, No. 1
„„ „ 2
„„ „ 3
”, ” Match 111.
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality..
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber—Rugfby or Association.
No. 1
» S
.. i
a. d.
each 1 0
.. 14
» 17
' 110
8. d..
No. 5 each 2 3.
,', 6, Association only 2/9, 3 3 1
„ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber each 3 8
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices If required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
>, ■ s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes .. .. pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles 13
Bull, leather straps and buckles .. .. „ 10
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps .. „ 2 0
Gold Cape, straps and buckles .. . „ 2 9
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps .. .. .. .. .. pair
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads - „ i
Same as above, larger size .. .. .. „ 5
a. d.
3 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS .
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS —Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, Os 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS— White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois'
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEY'S— Hen’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Blaok and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48j- dozen ; 4/3 each.
H (
, V > m y
ft 1 . : r i£
t /. »v
H®
'r ' '
fgd
riANbICA*
e 4
Stan&aas
7/3
Ascot
2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
*0 Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
P - H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
BVill Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
Al .. .. 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S racquets.
Eenshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 255
“ E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s (Id
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s-6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s.set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
18BF“ Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
L P
Ti
AUCHTERLONIE’S CLUBS-
Drlvers, Oleeks, Irons or
Mashie* 6s 9d
Bulger Brassies .. .. 7s 6d
Straight or Bent Neck
Patent Putters.. .. 8s
“8.G.1.” CLUBS-
“ Fairfield ’’ Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 4s 6d
First (Quality Drivers,
Brassies and Irons .. 5s 6d
SPALDING’S CLUBS—
“ Morristown ” Brassies .. 6s 6d
“ Crescent ” Drivers,
Brassies or Irons .. 6s 9d
GOLP BALLS -
Ayres’ Practice, 10s 6d doz.
" Silvertown," 16s 6d doz.
Haskell, Wizard, or Spring-
vale Eagle, 80s doz.
We have the best selection of GOLF
MATERIAL in Australia .
Golf Sundries of every description stocked.
\ \
/
PUNCHING BALLB.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder—
-7s 6d, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6a, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels —
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, Ss 6d each
SPECIAL REDUCTION
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling Price
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY.
THE MAINZ
Pine
<Shr. uiino Pifle /tpsrr
The Celebrated “ Maine” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges. Weight, 2Jlb.
PRICE 1216
POSTAGE ON RIFLE, 1/3 EXTRA.
CONICAL. BALL
fd
ďf
dg
fd
AMMUNITIOKT.
gdf
Pea Rifle Cartridges .
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is Sd ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, is „
Rifle Cartridges ,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle ...
22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s
Is Od
Is 3d
Is 6d
2s Od
10s
12s
13s
18s
22222
ISA/ C
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Beal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Crossßolt,
Left Choker Rebounding- Loeksr&nap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
dfg
“The Reliable,”
™ss £6 12s 6d
u ~ c nN ci “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMIWERLESS GUN, 12-
Si® *p genuine Damascus or “SiemenV' steel barrels, both choke, aid.
® ® „j-„ v o ]t extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
lock neatlv Sraved, chambered for 2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR 12S
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States .. *
ĝd
f
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight £ R
ƒ
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, pistol _ _
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. .. ‘HIS
f
Winchester “Thumfc-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. -J gg
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F.,.peepor V 8. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb. .. 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3^lb. .. .. .. .. .. 16 6
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
market


3D R. MARTI KT,
M. ID.,
L.R.0.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.G.
GRIERSON BURSAR AND MEDALLIST, UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH ; FORMERLY MEMBER OF THE
ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH ; LATE ASSISTANT DEMONSTRATOR IN PRACTICAL
ZOOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH ; MEMBER OF THE GENERAL COUNCIL OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF EDINBURGH, ETC., ETC. FORMERLY MEDICAL SUPERINTENDENT AND VISITING SURGEON TO
FOUR OF AUSTRALASIA’S LEADING HOSPITALS.
With these widely-recognised qualifications, combined with unswerving faithfulness to his patients during his
extended practice, he has attained a well-deserved pre-eminence in their treatment. All those suffering from an}
complaints should consult Dr. MARTIN, always feeling certain that by so doing they will find a friend in need
one who will not turn a deaf ear to them, be their complaint what it may. Many, on the other hand, think thai
their muscular system is strongly developed, they do not require attention. This is a fallacy I foi
apparently trivial symptoms often lead to the most disastrous results.
SYMPTOMS.
Dimness of Vision, Dark-circled, Bloodshot, or Sore Eyes, Headaches, Foul Breath, Difficulty in Breathing.
Decaying Teeth, Lassitude, General Weakness, Uncertain Temper, Constipation, Piles, Giddiness, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Indigestion, Wind on the Stomach, Constant Desire for Change, Bashfulness, Weakness Across the Back.
Hackjng Cough, Desire for Solitude, Acne (Blackheads), Rough, Unhealthy Skin, or Sallow Complexion, Craving
for Stimulants, Eruptions on the Face, Neck, Back, or Chest; Perspiring or Sore Hands or Feet; Toothache, Neu
ralgia, Pains in the Head, Oozing of Saliva from the Mouth during sleep, Giddiness on rising from a stooping
position, Shortness of Breath, Palpitation of the Heart, Fear of Insanity, Inclination to Suicide. Send for Dr.
MARTIN’S instructive work on DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. This work will be forwarded FREE to an;
part of the world, on receipt of stamps to cover postage. Many patients who have been treated by unprincipled
uneducated quacks, feel dubious about writing* even to a Physician and Surgeon so widely known a id universall’
respected as Dr. MARTIN. Dr. MARTIN has CURED thousands of patients who had been thus defrauded, b;
advice alone. If you feel doubtful as to the nature of your malady, or whether, indeed, you require treatment a
all, sit down quietly at home, and write to Dr. MARTIN. He will, on receiving same, WITHOUT CHARGING i
Jr a cou^ eousl y, telling you plainly what is the matter with you, and what is required to effect a cure. Dr.
MARTIN may be consulted FREE. Dr. Martin’s Private Hospital is the most complete, up-to-date institution o
its kind in Australasia. All communications should be addressed to
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Aertex
Cellular
Underwear,
Shirts,
Pyjamas, <&c.
Ana
Ladies '
Underwear
of every description.
Samples, Pamphlets and Price
Lists, post free, from
mmmm
SipMljl
* <»«y
*» n o «►<* *y f
JgMJJ
<J> *►
-
K»X
Stoker* fe
eelSiMI
■
V,
<IW w inv « «
jac-o-i^resfesE**
<? «
3«7«r
W^«fr
■ ~ s
• -. ■• •
«fo2£3£
H IS
** *». <
|SeS
**?tri Ufa
05S
DAVID BRAHAM & GO.,
SOLE AGENTS,
75 King-street, Sydney
RUBBER
specialquauty:
m
i WORN i
I BY \
ROYALTY.
Will do more to give you a feeling of youth and brightness than all the drugs in
the pharmacopoeia. The hard street is made as soft and pleasant to walk on as a grass
lawn. Saves ten times their cost in the boot bill.
Render worn down heels impossible, relieve spinal concussion thus saving the nerves
and reducing fatigue. Sold by every up-to-date boot and shoe dealer and general storekeeper.
CAUTION—See the name “ WOOD-MILNE ” on ovsry Pad.
Sole Agents for AUSTRALASIA, D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.
Adelaide. Kalgoorlle. Launceston. Townsville. Perth. Melbourne. Brisbane. Broken Hill.
Bole Manufacturers of the Wond-Milne llcrls - REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTM ENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES. -
NEVER RAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
END’S
HEADACHE, fi f R IT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.- See Capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT*' Without It you bava a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr*par«d only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT' WORKS, LONDON, BNQ„
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <Sc., everywhere.
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEON
ƒg
WE do not recommend the “ HELBA ” because it is lower in price
than others, sucti may be true, but because the “ iIELBA ”
excels all others in the most important quality an instrument can
possess— TONE.
This is the result of the superior quality of the alloy used in the
reeds, and the employment of experts in reed “ voicing',” an art which is
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accordeons.
The “HELBA” ACCORDEON, No. 717, is fitted with three
sets of reeds, nine fold double bellows, leather lined corners fitted with
metal protectors.
To anyone mentioning Tire Bulletin we will send the above Post
Free for 205., including Carl Bruno’s Accordeon Tutor, containing
Popular Songs, Waltzes, &c.
ALLAN’S, 276, 278 Collins-street, Melbourne.
the
‘PLUM’
dfhfhď
THE
‘PLUM’
/"i ENTEEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
VJ a bell, and never requires grinding. Being- practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edtre that is required to ensure an easv shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEA.RS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7a. 6tL
” RAZOLEO" LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Pric*
Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, .in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 21a.
Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 308.
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques
CRAIG & AITKEIM, 654 George-st., Sydney.
Sole Agents:
Star Trombone Accordeon
mm
NX
BK
THr.
-*r'
1:1
O
V. .A
4m3
THE LATEST NOVELTY ! MARVELLOUS INVENTION !
No l.'oro Croken Stops No Damage can be Done to the Stops.
This Patent Trombone Aceordcon is fitted with the following
Improved ideas :
1. The Stops arc fitted to the keyboard, as shown in sketch,
and produce the different tones by simply turning them in the
direction of the arrows.
“. The 10-pipe Jlibbed Hard Metal Cover protects the valves
and reeds, and gives a greater strength of lone than any other
instrument in the market.
This Accordeon is fitted with extra strong double Bellows, with
Metal-bound Corners, and has extra special broad-hammered Steel
Bronze Reeds.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with S sets of Reeds, as per sketch, £1 sa.
Accordeons, 7/6 to 63/- Send for Catalogue Is.
For GRAMOPHONE see our advertisement on another page.
Other
HEINDORFF BROS.,
210 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE. [3
hfh fdh
Why Wait Until
you Break Down ?
There may be others
dependent on your lab-
our and exertions for an existence,
but, instead, should you lose your
Health and Strength, you become
a burden. If you feel that you are
not as you should be, ACT AT Once ! The
feeling of exhaustion when you arise in
the morning is Nature’s warning that you
have in some way overtaxed your supply of
Nervous Force and Energy. A leak, how-
ever small, will, sooner or later, sink the
largest ship. It will not mend itself or re-
pair its evil work.
THERE IS ONLY ONE WAY TO
AVOID A BREAKDOWN.
First, to stop the leak or coutributive cause ;
next, repair the evil done, by recharging the
system with Vitality— Nerve Energy, but
never by making the stomach struggle with
temporary stimulation. No ! The quickest
and surest way is to convey to your depleted
system a fresh supply of Life Force. What
is this subtle element? ELECTRICITY!
Eminent men are yearly making important
X
discoveries as regards its use tor various diseases, and which is borne out
by the astonishing results in the thousands of cases treated by . .
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt-
It stimulates the Functional Organs to do their work properly. It
energises the delicate process of Digestion, Assimilation, and Nutrition,
and promotes secretion and excretion, and results in the perfect restora-
tion of Health and Strength, with the Fire and Energy of Youth. You
can have a Healthy Body, strong in every part, a Keen and Active Brain,
Clear Eyes, Steady Nerves, and Joyous Impulses, and you can be free
from Aches and Pains if you will only do as thousands of others have
done — USE ELECTRICITY.
It’s the Proof that Tells. Read Carefully:
Mr. L. ARROWSMITH, Wonga Creek, via Manilla, N.S.W.,
writes :
Dear Sirs, —I wish to report to you the Marvellous Cure which the Electric Belt I
purchased from you some time back has effected in my case. Before I purchased the
Belt I thought I would never be cured. I could not sleep at night for the pain in my
back, but after wearing your Belt for one week the pain left my back, and since then I
have not lost one night’s sleep. I can now record a positive cure from the application
of your Electric Belt.
Shag 1 Valley, N.Z.
Dear Sirs, —Yours of recent date to hand, also Belt. I have not worn it myself yet,
but gave it to two of the family to try, one for weak back and the other for rheumatism.
Two or three applications cured the weak back, and the other is greatly benefited. I
have no doubt but what it will do the same for me when I commence to use it in a week
or so.—l remain yours respectfully,
JOHN DALZIEL.
Bad Back, Sciatica, Etc.
Fosterville, via Goornong, Vic.
Dear Sirs,—lt is now about ten months
since I first used one of your High-grade
Electric Belts. I was then suffering from
Sciatica in the hip and leg, and a Bad Back.
I am glad to say that the Belt has done me
a wonderful amount of good, and I now feel
splendid. I used to suffer from Headaches,
but they never trouble me now, and my
appetite is good. I still wear the Belt
occasionally, as it seems to tone one up so.
I wish you every success with 3’our Belts,
and shall be only too glad to tell others
what it has done for me.
Yours truly,
A. CAMPBELL.
Free Book. "Ws
■\T7'E publish a Beautifully-Illustrated
»» 96-page Book, which is devoted
entirely to the Medical Uses of Electric-
ity. The Illustrations show in detail
how our Belt is used'in all Chronic Com-
plaints. It desc.ibes, in all particulars,
the method adopted to cure Chronic Ail-
mentsof the Nerves and Tissues. Write
for it to-day, and it will be posted to you
Closely Sealed and Free. Postage Paid.
We want every suf-
ferer to Call and ex-
amine our W’onderful Belt. A Free Test
will be given you. No Chaige of any
kind is made for Consultation. Do not
go on suffering, but come and investi-
gate our methods, if they do not suit you,
vou are under no obligation to us what-
ever. Don’t delav. Write or Call to-dav.
Our Offices are Open Every Week-Day from 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.
The Dr. McLaughlin 00. I ° OW SYDNEY.
N.Z. OFFICE: 54 Willis-street, Wellington.


a
sf\
Vf
i J
m
I
Why not look
young ? There’s
genuine pleas-
ure in holding
back Father
Time fif-
teen or
twonty
years. You
can do it
easily with.
Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, for it
gives all that deep
and rich look to the
hair which belongs
to young life.
Ayer’s
Hair Vigor
You know the story—how good
Queen Bess, pointing to the beautiful
Lair of a peasant girl, said, “There’s a
real royal crown. I would trade my
golden one for it.” That was long ago.
Now you can have a “real royal crown”
of your own, simply by using Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It makes the hair grow
thick and long and stops it falling
out.
When your hair is rich and heavy,
and when tho closest inspection fails
to detect a single gray hair, you will
certainly look a greac deal younger,
and you will be much better satisfied
with yourself, too. Isn’t that so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
hdfd
To His Majesty
The King.
“LENTEN SEASON.
Lust landed “special”
SHIPMENTS OE . . .
MOIR’S
(John Mom & Son, Ltd.)
H E R RINQS.
“NEW SEASON’S ” “SPECIALLY SELECTED.”
Insist on having: “MOIR’S” BRAND.
EACH TIN GUARANTEED.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Preserved Bloaters
Herrings in Anchovy Sauce
Herrings in Shrimp Sauce
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
Herrings a fa Sardines
Digby Chicks
Dried Sprats
Findon Haddocks
Anchovy Paste, 3oz.
Bloater Paste, 4oz.
MARTIN’S
PILLS
A Safe Medicine for Ladies. ,
The reason is are purely a vegetable
composition, and expressly suited to the con- I
stitution and requirements of women. This
explains the great success and golden opinions ]
which follow their use. Thousands say they ,
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri- ]
ties of the blood, beautify tie complexion, no I
headache, no pain, no flushing, no giddiness, |
no anxiety. They make work a pleasure, and <
existence a joy. Superior to any other known |
remedy, Price SI -■ Sold everywhere. Sole j
proprietor, MARTIN, Pharmaceutical]
Chemist, Sou Hampton, England. .
PLEASURE PROFIT.
..fmrnrnm »
Cyphers Incubators.
'THESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, AGENT8 ’
!^4l-243 Elizabeth-street, flel bourne.
THE GUINEA KING
I
Hand
Camera
To carry 12
with Rapid
Rectilinear
Lens.
Finest In-
stantaneous
Shutter
focussing up
to 4ft. Post
free to any
part of Aus-
tralia, 22/6.
</. H. SQUIRE & CO
Kodak Depot, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
“For
30 Years
I have used Bon'ninqton’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonningtonk
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of sales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINGTON’S.”
fdh f
fdh df
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
High in quality, yet moderate in price. Win-
chester “New Rival” Shotgun Cartridges,
leaded with Black Powder are in a class by
themselves, price considered. They are manu-
factured with the care and skill which
has made the name “ Winchester ” synonom-
ous with reliability and accuracy. Sportsmen
the world over use them. A trial will con-
vince you that they arc the very best made,
ALL DEALERS KEEP THEM
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Mem. : Business Men.
To obtain the benefit of Style and Comfort
at a minimum outlay, you should wear . .
“BIG BLOCK” CLOTHIKG.
These Suits are just the thing for business wear, an:! made specially to your measurements from Fox’s
erse, ngo Dye, and A„ Woo. Fancy Tweeds. 4Qs p £R s|// T To Measure,
and when you wear one of these Suits these features will he noticeable : The coat will hang well round the
shoulders, fit perfectly across back, feel comfortable over the arms, and set trim around the collar ; the vest
will fit. properly and button snugl.y, as a good-fitting vest should; the trousers will set right and hang grace-
fully—they will be of proper length and size. s e
TROUSERS TO MEASURE in New Worsteds, Tweeds, and Indigo Serges at 12/6 post free.
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS to measure, in fawn and brown beaver cloth, velvet collar, at 32/6, post free.
ASCOT OVERCOAT (full length rom neck to feet), in rainproof covert coating and rainproof tweeds, to
measure, 45/-, post free. or- *
If you cannot call, send for patterns and self-measurement form and they will be sent you
post free on receipt of request.
TRY WHERE YOU WILL, YOU CAN’T BEAT THE BIG BLOCK CLOTHING.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
SOLID SOLD SCARF PINS.
5/-
P 5/
5/
*
5/
You Want a Present
for a Gentleman?
This is just the
thingr-Pretty and
Inexpensive.
X
I have
set with' Dia-
monds, Pearls,
Opals, and fancy
stones.
THIS IS THE SCARF PIN YEAR.
SEND FOR MY CATALOGU
n.FSMiTri ~^i cj eweller
QULENo (nearBRIDGE-)
Brisbane
Ruthven Str66t, Toowoomba 5 and at Ipswich,
Backblocks Verse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Your Picks Are Wanting Steel.
You can hear it in the morning- ringing on the
mountain side,
Like the eager bellbird calling to arouse his bash-
ful bride.
From the scarred and pitted gullies and the tumbled
mullock ricks,
You can hear the anvils ringing of the diggers
pointing picks.
Yes, they’re drawing out their “ stumpies ” just to
do another day,
When they think they must get something, if but
just enough to pay.
But the heart needs be a staunch one that with
doubts will never reel
When each day brings no improvement and the
picks are wanting steel.
There’s a good time always coming when our picks •
will all be layed,
And a spanking new manila will replace the one
that’s frayed;
When we’ll doff our fluttering tatters and the
boots all down at heel—
But that 'time seems long a-coming when your
picks are wanting steel.
When you start to sink so blithely with your picks
as good as new,
You feel that there’s a nugget waiting underneath
for you ;
But it’s not in human nature perfect confidence to
feel
When you’re driving in the headings and your
picks are wanting steel.
So, I guess it will be always. Toiling for the bite
and sup
Till we’ve sunk our last hard duffer and the rope
won't puli us up ;
Then, perhaps, we’ll strike it lucky, and in shining
moleskins kneel
Where the gold is on the footpath and we have no
need of steel.
VIC.
W.G.H.
Maloney’s Motor Car.
“The Bushman’s Arms,” whose liquid charms all
western stockmen know,
Was kept by Pat Maloney at a time when things
were slow;
Dead slow, begad ! For though it had seen flush
times, I believe,
Yet things were mortal dull on this partic’lar
Christmas Eve.
Maloney’d gone to Cobar on the usual Christmas
quest
For liquors of a quality politely termed “the
best;”
And .there he sat, imbibing that which bushmen
call “ three star,”
Until two Sydney Johnnies walked inside tobrer.st
the bar.
’Twas then the hist’ry started of Maloney’s Motor
Car!
They had a car, a splendid car, the finest on the
road!
’Twould beat a team of bullocks in the hauling of
a load;
And as for speed, there was no need to talk of
other power—
That car could bound, on level ground, its forty
miles an hour !
And there he sat, did muddled Pat, and listened,
till at last
His trap was sold, the car was bought, and thus
the die was cast;
And forth he went, in great content, from out the
hotel bar,
And mounted on his new machine, as proud as
any Czar !
All Cobar gave a send-off to Maloney’s Motor C. r?
And there in fair Killara was a waiting thirsty
throng,
Till Pat Maloney brought his stock of Christmas
grog along;
But Mount McPherson, they’d aver, was scarce a
hundred miles
From Cobar. “Nowwe shan’t be long!” they
said, exchanging smiles.
They still had some back-country rum; there sti.l
remained some beer,
Which they absorbed while waiting for the special
Christmas cheer.
A sound, like demons flying past ! it startled all
the bar l
Then out they rushed with open mouths, and eyes
that stared afar—
The last of mortal eyes that saw Maloney's Motor
Car!
Yet, day by day, the press would say, “There
was important news,”
And forty fresh detectives had discovered forty
clues !
In Adelaide fresh plans were made, and Noi man-
ton and Cue
Looked for the coming vehicle, and wondered
what to do.
The police, of course, displayed resource, and ran
in everyone
Who looked as if he’d done the deed, or could or
would have done.
But ne’er a word there e’er was heard in special
wire or par.
To clear this murky mystery, which was as blade
as tar.
A Budget Speech was simple to Maloney’s Motor
Car! # . *
Shall" I deceive ? Each Christmas Eve, t'i.ey say,
the Bushman’s Arms
Is now the T "°eting-place of persons filled with
vague alarms.
If Pat were drowned, no corpse was found; all
search was made in vain,
And ne’er was driver or machine by mortal seen
again !
But folks believe on Christmas Eve, when wails
the weird curlew
And moans the mopoke in the trees, Maloney’s
PASSING THROUGH 1
They swear they hear, in quaking fear, a voice
that cries—“ Ha ! Ha ! ”
A phantom voice and ghostly sound that all their
pleasures mar—
The Flying Dutchman of the Bush— Maloney’s
Motor Car !
N.s.w.
W. T. GOODGE.


With Shampoos of Cuticura Soap
and Light Dressings
of Cuticura.
This treatment at once stops falling hair,
removes crusts, scales, and dandruff, soothes
irritated, itching surfaces, stimulates hair folli-
cles, supplies the roots with energy and nourish-
ment, and makes the hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp when all else fails.
MILLIONS USE CUTICURA SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautify-
ing the skin, for cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the
stopping of falling hair, for softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings, and dialings, in the form of baths
for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free or offensive perspi-
ration, and for all the purposes of the toilet, as well as by millions of women
in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and many sanative, antisep-
tic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women and mothers.
COMPLETE TREATMENT FOR EVERY HUMOUR,
Consisting of Cuticura Soap; to cleanse the skin of crusts and scales, and soften the
thickened cuticle; Cuticura Ointment, to instantly allay itching, inflammation, and
Irritation, and soothe and heal; and Cuticura Resolvent Pills, to cool and cleanse the
blood. A Single Set is often sufficient to cure the most torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, and scaly skin, scalp, and blood humours, with loss of hair, when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Australian Depot : R. Towns & Co., Sydney. British Depot:
27-28, Charterhouse Sq., London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Paix,Paris. Potter Drug
and Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT PILLS
(Chocolate Coated) are a new, tasteless,
odourless, economical substitute t or the cele-
brated liquid CtmcußA Resolvent, as well as for all other blood purifiers and humour
cures. Put up in screw-cap pocket vials, containing CO Closes. Cuticura 1 ills are
alterative, antiseptic, tonic, digestive, and the purest, sweetest, most successtui ana
economical of blood and skin purifiers, humour cures, and tonic-digestives.
d df
ď dƒ
The XJniTersal Remedy lor Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
The Fhysician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
dfd
LAST DAYS! LAST DAYS!
FOR A CHANCE TO WIN
£lOOO ** l -£100*)
A Fortune for 7/- A Fortune for //-
£lOOO for Is.j
£lOOO for Is.}
FIRST GREAT
PRIZE
I£looo for Is.
£lOOO for Is.
Or 12 Months’ Trip round the World, first-class, all expenses paid,
and £6OO in Cash for one person, or Eight Months for two.
And 139 other Important Prizes, ranging in value from £1 to £l5O.
Eight Hours 49th Annual Great Art Union
49th THE OLDEST AND MOST POPULAR—-49th.
Proceeds in aid of the Hospitals and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners Free of all Charg-es. A list of winning numbers will be posted
to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unaffixed.
Buv from your Local Agent on or before 22nd April, or send stamps (with exchange added), Postal
Note, dr P. 0.0., direct to the representative, Tiibo. W. Heidk, Flinders Buildings, 312 Fhnders-
street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union.
Tickets Is. each, or 11 for 10s.
Applications for tickets direct to the representative must reach Melbourne before Date of Drawing,
Ist May, 1905.
BE SURE TO TRY YOUR LUCK !
WEAK MEN CURED FREE.
&
Vi
\
MO,
WE have the most powerful and practical cure
ever yet invented for the positive, certain, and
radical cure of Rheumatism, Lumbago, Weak
Back or Kidneys, Nervousness, Liver, Bladder, and
Stomach troubles, and all other weaknesses of vital
Earts ;in fact, all chronic diseases. In 20 years we
ave cured 50,000 weak men and women. Our method
cannot possibly fail. No matter what other treatment or belt you
may have used, WE WILL OURE YOU, and we are so positive of
the' tremendous therapeutic properties of our latest improved Belt
that we will send our Latest Model Full Power No. 8 Belt complete,
with all attachments, to any person writing us, and you can wear it
for ninety days, and you only
PAY WHEN CURED-
This is the most generous offer yet made, in order thoroughly to
introduce throughout the State this splendid Belt.
Our Belt Generates a Powerful Vitalising Current op
Electricity, which can be felt the instant applied.
You can wear it at night. It cures while you sleep. If you are weak
or ailing in any way, if you are not the man or woman Nature intended
you to be, then try our Belt. It will cure you. If not, it won’t cost
you a penny.
We have just published a New and Beautifully Illustrated Medioal Book,
which is absolutely
FREE TO ALL
writing to us. It will interest and help every adult reading it; so delay no
1 onger, but write to-day for our FREE BOOK and Powerful Belt. Write to-day.
The Dr, Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful
Dept* M,
Patients.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
ďf
MEDICATO&
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Trice,complete with 4 mon ths’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
m
'V.f
t'l Ktrst-Pewer Elaotrle Plant, operating at
Tilt Cathcart Proprietary Geld Mine, Ararat, Victoria.
jANZ&CO.
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power and
Traction Plants .
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
The Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne. LTD -
WILL
LIST OF
BOOKS
ƒdfdh
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrator Marriage Guide
by Or. Faulkner, illustrated
with over f>o engravings, rieiv
1904 edition, hard covers,
im proved, 3s 6d. M agio Up-
to-Oate, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners,: illus-
trated?. Is. Horse : and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Don elly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
eugrayings, Is. Maria
Monk? is 6d How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De FOe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil ; and all . Zola’s, Is 6ci each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-date Comic
Reciter, Irish CGmic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, ; Is ; post, Is 3d. All Hat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids,'Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post; Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, 6d.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition. 190 illustrations, Is 3d.
Macfad.den’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
of Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tamkron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of tiie First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Mc :k,
2 . How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining', Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man; His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200#inds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Bqthner’sScientific Wrestling, 60 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Mare Hr, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitiio,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, ; 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is, Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries;, ,9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, zs. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works'. 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
ANr> ANY BODIy YOU WANT.
ZiNGARA|gBirsY Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with- full direetions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:.
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508
GEORGE STREET,
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
SYDNEY
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —.
JAYNE'S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
NOTICE
To sufferersfrom Gout,Rheumatisin,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinguhstkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of tlie World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroy*
all Parasites of Head or Body.
soi.d in two sizks, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdicstre & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister tlie
skin-There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs-it is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S.
Eng.
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by thayajfcly
celebrated FRENCirHOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
?™IIETO I 'o h F'' i a U "'S™™ e ®“S
THEMSELVES Ot a uences . A HOME
- "*>*£*■ ida rr.
PARISIAN AafNCV. Castlereagh St.,


BAKER & ROUSE mopy
LIMITED,
The Holiday Photographer
m
RS@
if
j : »
m
In want of a CAMERA
of simple construction,
which will yield a really
good photograph every
time a plate is exposed,
and who wants it at a
reasonable cost, should
carry a
No. 3 Austral
They are good to look at, light to carry, strong,
simple, elfectiye, accurately adjusted, and cost only
One Guinea,
carry 12 i-plates, excellent Lens, fast Shutter, two
Finders, Magnifiers and unfailing changing mechanism.
dfh
FOR ROLLER FILMS AND J-PLATES
COMBINED, SEE THE . . ,
AUSTRAL NO. 4
Fitted with BECK LENS,
«lt ♦ ♦ « *
£4 12s. 6d.
• . and the . *
“Austral No. 4
Special,”
Fitted with GOERZ SPECIAL
LENS, at ... .
12 Guineas.
ALL ‘AUSTRALS" are the perfection of modern cameras.
They are British buiit to Australian specification, and are sold only by
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd.
375 George St., Sydney
37 Bundle St., Adelaide
284 Collins St., Melbourne
78 Queen St, Brisbane.
SAVE
30
per cent.
BY BUYING OF
G. W. CATANACH
GUARANTEED JEWELLERY.
Engagement Rings.
MY SPECIALTY.
2-Row Sapphire c:nd
Diamonds, £lO
5 Brilliant Diamonds,
£lO
Ruby and Diamonds,
£lO
Wedding Present
the newest.
Photo Frames,
8/6, 10/-, 15 /- to 45/.
Bridesmaids' Gifts.
THE DAINTIEST.
Fine Pearl & Enamel Brooch, 45 /-
Fine Pearls and Enamel, 4C/~
F/no Pearl Bow, 30/-
Manufacturer and Importer of Jewellery, Plate, Clocks, &c.
CATANACN’S JEWELLERY FACTORY
Corner Little Coffins Street and Royal .Melbourne.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1549. For pff e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Sesurity or Freshold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
nßhtnt!? * nd . C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repayin" up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of anv fne.
Directors— I Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman ; The Hon. A.'VV Mkeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Bhsjamix Short,
fcsq. .Senator J. T. V\ ai.keh ; Jamhsßurns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.O. ; F. E. Wiscuco.muk, Esq., JI.L.A.
General Manager and Anni'm*—Rich art> Tbecr. FIAFFAFSS
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ; ‘ ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Wire CSoth Weavers.
fhd
Makers of all Kinds ♦.
In Steel, Iron, of Wove Wire
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
WE HAKE A SPECIALITY OF
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LA TEST MA CHINER Y.
Wo would be pleased to get in communication with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
J
M 1.,,
EASTWAY BROTHERS.
409 # 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factories: 633 A Cearge St., and Alb on Lana.
P.O. Hox 858. Telephone 2075.
ďh
fd
FISHING
Only the Highest Quality
Fishing Tackle stocked.
IF YOU WANT THE BEST,
SENU FOR OUR LISTS.
v.
WE HAVE SUPPLIED ANGLERS
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
WE ARE PURELY AND SIMPLY
A FISHfNG TACKLE SHOP.
■Wlh.w Hill I I I mil mm
EASTWAY BROTHERS
409 & 411 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
PKTS&C
POST CARD
r*i
r.j-WRD (t>
c&tA
rS’ 1 - Zi/.OW
card “a
POST
y -w
TO INTRODUCE Or It NEW
PICTORIAL POST CARDS, best Id. Post Card in Australia
Asa hug-e advertisement we will forward to anyone sen dint; their
name and address, 120 of our best Id. post cards free. Anyone may
send. We want ho money. We merely ask you to sell these post card*
amonprst your friends in packets of six at 6d per packet. After selling
the cards (which will not take lohjr) you return the 10s. and we send
you any present you may choose from a list we send. By conti
the sale of these cards you may earn a Solid Sterling Silver
(Lady’s or Gent's). We take all risks. Cards returnable if not
Send at once to THE PICTORIAL POST CARD CO.,
BK 'Falmouth Chambers,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
mmnsr M
Watch Y
s sold. A
HARDY’S
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
litd.
S "ST 33 3V EJ "V,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very' best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
LEICHHARDT TESTIMONY.
EVERY LOCALITY SENDS ITS TRIBUTE.
The Case of Mrs. A. YOUNC.
(By a Sydney Reporter.)
The principal feature for us of the
stories of adversity which have been
the lot of others is that they give a
clue to the manner in which similar
experiences can be effectively dealt with
if they come our wav. Here is a nar-
rative which will assuredly put many a
reader on the right track—one supplied
to us by Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-
street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs.
Young’s present address, where she has
been living for the past eleven years,
that our special correspondent was
granted the interview which appears
hereunder :
“I’m in search of news," said the
newspaper man. “Do you mind letting
me know something about the alllic-
tions you encountered whilst living in
Bay-street, Glebe ? That’s where you
were living at the time, I’m told V"
“Yes," answered Mrs. Young; “and
it is thirteen years since I had the ill-
ness you refer to. Truly, the time does
fly. It doesn’t seem half so long ago,
tor everything is as fresh in my me-
mory as though it was only yester-
day. Oh ! .1 was unwell for a good
while. Hardly knew w'hat to do from
one day to another owing to the feeble
condition I was in. Times being so
bad 1 could not afford to keep a ser-
vant, yet .1 was quite .unable to get
about and do the work myself, and the
consequence w r as that things had to
take their chance."
“Were you experiencing any physical
pain ?’’
“Oh ! don’t talk about it. Have you
ever had neuralgia in the head V I
hope not, for it was something dread-
ful. Right across the forehead,
through from one temple to the other,
and up to the top of my head, the
most acute pain imaginable harassed
me. The agony was so great that of-
ten 1 imagined something was pressing
on my brain, and I really used to
think I would go mad with it. It had
such an effect upon me, indeed, that
even my sight went bad; and as for the
feeling in my eyes—well, they felt as if
they were double the size they should
have been. Ah ! what desolate, me-
lancholy days they were ! I’m sure 1
felt myself to be about the most un-
happy woman in. the world, and I
think I had occasion to be in view of
the fact that the outlook was so
black."
“l)o you mean that your prospects
of getting strong again seemed re-
mote ?”
’‘•They did, indeed, for I had been at-
tended to by several doctors, and the
most they could do for me was to give
just a little relief now and then ; but
there w'as nothing lasting about it.
and if I felt a trifle better one day I
was sure to feel ten times worse the
next, and the medicine, besides being
so ineffective, was always disagreeable
to take. A strange thing was that I
felt always so worn out, drowsy and
exhausted—as if 1 was only lit to go
somewhere and lie down and die—yet
when .1 made an effort to sleep, do you
think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d
twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last 1 dozed off
the dreams I had were fearful. T al-
ways appeared to be struggling a-rainst
something that was holding me in its
clutches, hideous sights flitted through
mv imaginative brain, and when 1
woke up, which was usually with a
start, 1 felt terribly agitated and
afraid. Really,- I used to dislike the
idea of going to sleep on account of
those dreams ; besides. I never felt
rested afterwards, as T got up feeling
more weary than ever. No wonder I
thought I would never get strnno-
avain, for I got absolutely no benefit
whatever from any food T took. Soon
after eating ] suffered dreadfully from
flatulence, the wind rising from the
stomach, and leaving a sour taste that
was similar to the disagreeable flavour
I had in my mouth each morning ;
then, a little later, my chest became
painful and uncomfortable, with a feel-
ing as if a stone had got inside, and
had closed up the breathing passages,
lor when I tried to take a long breath
it hurt me."
"And you couldn’t get permanent re-
lief from these symptoms through the
medicine prescribed for you '{"
‘ -No, unfortunately. But linally 1 got
something to do me good. Clements
lonic it was, and the best remedy 1
ever had in all my life, too. Good-
ness, what a show it made of every-
thing else 1 had taken, for instead of
only easing me a little occasionally, it
went right to the base of my inlirmi-
ties, and lifted them out by the roots !
In addition to what I've already told
you, 1 must state that I was highly
nervous— nobody could be more so, for
1 was actually afraid to stay in my
own house by . myself, and was con-
tinually worrying myself about things
that 1 imagined were going to happen.
I rouble was always hanging over me,
and 1 couldn’t get the idea out of my
head—not until 1 had been taking Cle-
ments Tonic for a space of time, when,
quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
over such silly things, and my mind
became as happy as the day. Oh ! it
was wonderftu what an altered woman
(dements Tonic made me. Instead of
being anxious and timid all day, 1 got
as happy and cheerful as possable—no-
thing. frightened me, and my nerves
were steady. It is because 1 know of
so many nervous women that I deem
it my duty to say what a splendid re-
medy Clements Tonic is for that com-
plaint, thoughj for that matter, it was
equally benelicial to me in other ways.
I used to get pains clown the small of
my back and about my shoulders, al-
so palpitation and pains in the region
of the heart, which made me think
that something very serious was
wrong with me there"; but Clements
Tonic showed itself to be such a pain-
removing medium that I can faithfuliy
recommend it to all sufferers. Its re-
gulating. influences on the heart were
extraordinary, and for making one’s
sleep sound and peaceful, the same re-
medy was the only one to meet with
my requirements. "I wish I had used it
months before, for plenty of people
told me what a grand medicine Cle-
ments Tonic was, and—”
“How did you come to use it at
last ?”
“I was laid up at the time, thin,
pale, and despairing, when I suddenly
thought of it, and I asked h friend to
get some. She did ; I regained my
health and strength through its in-
fluence over me, and thus my worldly
happiness was restored. JNever as long
as I live shall I forget what a good,
regular appetite Clements Tonic gave
me ; how it stopped the giddy sensa-
tions that had troubled me from com-
ing back ; and how effectively it ended
mv tormenting head and body pains.
Ihe least I can do is to assist my
neighbours to throw off their afflic-
tions, so you may publish my experi-
ences in any manner you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. ANNIE YOUNG, of Myrtle-street.
Leichhardt. in the State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
Carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account, of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonip. and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any-
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to bp true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act. 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Petersham this
filth day of • Sent ember, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me.
13. EVANS. J.P.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
la Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged „
TO OEJPy COMIPJETIXION.
WINES “• B “‘ °** SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral waters, cordials, Am.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
Works i Birmingnam, England
ďf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


mu
'' 1 1 1
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORCE HOTEL, opposite St.
Ivilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
m Try it:
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
gapMlarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, tCs. Cd.
SOUS AOKNTS.
Thi Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIM, N.S.W. Barbers .Jiupplj
House, 654 GEORGE STREET, SITJ Ml.
No
Humbugging
Offers or con
ditions to
comply with.
hfdh
I
In order to introduce our Goods inlo every
lionie, <i lady’s or gent.’s Rolled Gold Watch
Chain and Pendant will he presented, entirely
free, to each purchaser of one pair of our Special
Cuff Links, price, 4 9 Please note that we send
the Watch Chain and Pendant complete in case
with warranty along with the Cuff Links, im-
mediately we receive your postal note for 4 9 ;
if 3d extra is added goods will he sent bv regis-
tered post, and thereby save any risk of breakage.
Address, THE INTRODUCING COMPANY,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
Insecticide
1 %
W Kills
7s?A_
w
*)ALL
r%m™ as
gew/\R^vs /ATIOM9 ’
AsK'^'^
fOR
USES
v. 6 *. *
INSOLVENT ESTATE of
WEAPON, THOMAS & CC-,
GUNMAKERS,
Corner of LITTLE COLLINS and ELIZABETH BTRI2T3
MELBOURNE.
rplIE TRUSTEES offer to the public to clear the whole
of their Stock i
The Folding: Collector’s Gun, 410 gauge —a splen-
did gun for orchards ; best steel locks and
barrels, reduced to £llO 0
Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892 model, any
calibre, half or full magazine, octagon barrel.. £2 12 C
Winchester Pattern Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle, 1904 model, 22 short or long, reduced to £0 13 fi
Remington Pattern S.S. Rifles, reduced to .. £0 10 6
10 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top
action, walnut stock, with cartridge, machine, ,
cleaners, complete ; usual price £5 10s., re-
duced to £2 17 0
C Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine
turned rib bar and rebounding locks, left
barrel full choke, right modified, pistol grip,
cartridge machines and cleaners, complete ;
usual price £lO, reduced to £5 0 0
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, walnut
stock, bar and rebounding locks, treble wedge
fast cross bolt, special No. 1 pistol grip, choke
bore, unequalled for quality, with cartridge
machines, cleaners, complete ; usual price
£l5, reduced to £7 10 0
C Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, hammer-
less, steel barrels, complete with cartridge
machines and cleaners ; usual price £3 55.,
reduced to £1 12 6
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, Green, ss. 6d. 100.
„ Smokeless, Bs. 100.
„ 22 Short, Is. Id. 100 ; 10s. 1000.
„ 22 Long, Is. 3d. 100 ; 12s. 1000.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must. a
made payable to WEADUN, THOMAS & 00.
Send for Catalogue, Post Free. All orders delivered
carriage paid to any State and New Zealand,
Early Issues of
1850-60
Purchased
Price Lisrs
Posh /
Free/
-* 10 STRANO ARCADE. SVOUEV. »S
AUSTRALIAN
POSTAGE
STAMPS
Cash sen!
By
Return
Mail
There is
MONEY on your old LETTERS)
WATE ROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumpc, &c., &c.
Sole Agext for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building's, Gsorgs St., Sydnsy.
JUST WHAT HAS BEEN WANTED .
A Good Practical TYPEWRITER
at a
Low Cost.
We have it 11
fdh
The “Postal"'
Prico £6 15s. / with Oak Case, £7 10s.
No business man, no matter in how small a way, should be without a Typewriter Type-
written letters look well, are more impressive, and lead to business. Send for full particulars—
Post Free. 1
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“MY OPTICIANS,”
393 George St., Sydney.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Post Office,
and within a stone’s throw of all the Theatres.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6s per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 6.30 till 7.30
Special Feature- RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
I rompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying -For a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL ENTRANCE = MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
ADDRESSES
pse2
EC
BY
m
0
ILLUMINATING
Artis r
I
SOA|
O®
RT^»
Ror
i .
5 vo
STRe e
384?
P-)0^
W IN HOT CLIMATES
where a good antiseptic soap is ofteft
more a necessity than a luxury,
CALVERT’S
20 per cent
Carbolic Soap
has a ready sale, on account of its
refreshing qualities, and the protec-
tion its use gives against mosquito
bites. It contains 20% Crystal Car-
bolic, and is useful for insect bites
or stings, ringworm, itch, &c.
Calvert’s Disinfecting Powder
is guaranteed to contain 15% Carbolic and
so is cheap to use as it need only be lightly
sprinkled to destroy noxious and unpleas-
ant odours and prevent the approach of
infection. J lb., 1 lb. and 2 lb. tins.
F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester,
ROTherhaivis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
oNO
<y*o
vyw*
%
®a
S'
fes/ -<&—&
sold by all
WHO-CAN-SHOW-
Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES
:>y
&
%
•majtn.., i— i
SPOOLER’S
SPOONERS
m
pm
igSSEill»
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CJ92AM
Blatk Cream,
Ftar Cleaning and PolT-tltjng
Boots and Shoe.*.
On bottles) Bd. and E».
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (i‘n
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers (ft
Unrivalled EM BROS ATM) H,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc,, Etc.
Sold by all • Storekeeper*,
Boot shops. Saddlers, ete.
dhd
SOLD
BY
f
ƒd
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How ro Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. Hfw to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Ur-TO-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, lsGd. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
And Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), .
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is Gd posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
HOAIE CyCLOPEPm
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright futjure, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-workino for Ama.
tburs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fittixg, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s Gd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
po*‘*d. Every Man His Cwn Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator Is. Australian Docl-or,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don't be ‘fooled Into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, PT" Established to Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY S I OCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT. -
Write for 013’
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT in stamps or postal note.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. !
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio genuine
Is. Advice to Women, Is ppst. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog DAxcikg Made Easy Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage Bd‘.
Secrei' History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Look of Dreams, 1b posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Cd posted!
i’OXOLOGY, 7s fid DOSt. VOLTAIRE’S ROMANCES 2s‘
INGERSOLL’S COMPLETE WORKS, 2s. GIPSV FORTUNE
Telling Cards', Love, PobixEss, Futurity, &c., with
full - rectons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to i
Mother, 3s Cd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. Wi
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar!
Boilers Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is fid post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness anJ
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moqre’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 paces cloth
bound iOs M posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,!
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete). Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine 1
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver's Guide*!
5s Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Maniiood!i >
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and rnaiiv 1
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Brim? of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French:
Art Studies, 500 kmds, Is 3d dozen. New Trici a I
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d. :
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney


JAMES HENNESSY & CO-, COGNAC.
GUARANTEE.
CAUTION . .
i
ART GIFT. .
Every drop of JAS. HENNESSY & COY.’S well=known ONE and
THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit distilled from Wine
ONLY.
The Public should insist upon having JAS. HENNESSY & COY.’S
original bottle and white and gold label as shipped by them from
Cognac.
On receipt of a postcard addressed to Empson & Empson, Advertising
Agents, Mutual Life of New York Building, Sydney, Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s Art Folio will be forwarded free of any charge.
fd
£5OOO Worth of
BIRTHDAY
RINGS
Watches, Bracelets, &c„ given away
to introduce New Life fjlectine Reme-
dies. You pay nothing. Simply send
your Name and Address on a Post Card, and we will send you 2 Boxes of each
Of our four famous Electlne Remedies, to sell at i/- per box. A grand remedy
and cure for all impure and weak conditions of the blood,
kidney and liver trouble, constipation, weak nervous dis-
orders—a tonic and life-builder. They are easy to sell,
as each customer who buys a box of pills from you re-
ceives a prize ticket, which entitles them to a handsome,
piece of Table Silverware. Send us your order at once
and we will send the pills and prize tickets, post paid.
When sold, send us the money, and we will send you
To each month is dedicated
a precious stone. Any per-
son wearing- the enchanted
stone of their birth moi th
insuies them great and un-
failing good luck.
Thus to January is def-
eated the garnet; February,
amethj st; March, blood-
stone ; April, diamond. Ac.
*MI 2PAH*-
Kxtra Prize. Send your order at one*,
and w« will giv* you for promptness
with the lucky Birthday Ring, an exquisite
ftolid Gold Cased Mizpah Brooch, Re-
member, if you write us now, the brooch
will be given you Free as an extr i prize,
in addition to the Birthday Ring.
I the Birthday Ring
I and Mizpah Brooch,
or any other prize
you are entitled to. Remember, you are selling i
an article of merit and in return you receive
honest prizes. You take no risk. Goods re-
turnable if not sold. Our Pills are genuine,
carefully manufactured from the very best
drugs. Beware of imitations.
ELECTINE MEDICINE CO., Ash St.,
ď
Sydney, N.S,W.
GUNS.
HARRINGTON and
RICHARDSON’S
SPECIAL OFFER .
BnnnMmaMMH
/Vo. ?— Steel Barrel, 30 inch, Pistol Hand, Oase-hardened Frame, Top Snap Action and
Automatic Ejector, 12 gauge, Complete in Canvas Case £1 12s 6d
No. 2 —Similar to No. 1, but without Automatic Ejector £1 10s Od
POSTAGE FREE to anv address In Australia.
Me LEAN BROS. & RIGG, 147 Elizabeth St., Melbourne .
r
FOR INFANTS
AND
INVALIDS
One Quality—the BEST.
trade mark
Kr*s.
N/
E?TL«
V
• <*3
11. - Ju >
- I
1 THE RICHEST-
IN
_ THE BEST%
IN THE MARKET
fd
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
Tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards,
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on appllaa
tion to The Manager.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
o(
m
&
v*
o
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T 4 n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Gtieltenham, England.
Agents— Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grlmwade & Co., Melbourne.
Method of Laying Roofing over a Galvanised Iron Roof.
Provide nearly twice as many running feet of lin. x 3in.
fattens as you require running feet of RtTBEROID to cover
your roof. Shave off the two upper corners of the battens, and
lay from ridge to eaves spaced 33in, from centres. Allow these
to project a little beyond the iron at eaves to permit battens
to be nailed lengthwise to the building. Nail the RUBEROID
on top of the battens, allowing enough slack between to just
touch the iron.
Re-cover your old iron roof with
RUBEROID ROOFING and make
it as cool and as good as new.
We are frequently being asked whether it is
advisable to lay Ruberoid Roofing over an old roof,
and have invariably replied “ Yes,” since with a
little attention to details such work can be per-
formed very easily, and the results are satisfactory
from a comfortable as well as a durable point of
view. Not only is the expense of removing the iron
saved, but it gives the advantage of a double roof,
cool in summer an(ji warm in winter.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
Sydney and Brisbane .
IN OTHER STATES 1
Melbourne, Vio.: Brooke; Robinson & 00., Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.: A. W. Sandford & 00.
- Fremantle, W.A.: J. M. Ferguson, Ltd.
Hobart, Tas.: William Crosby & 00.
Launoeston, Tas.: The Tasmanian Woolgrowers
Agency Co., Ltd.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1314.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1905.
Pkick 6d.
IN THE NORTH PACIFIC.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.’’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week.for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
llow to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige, the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate aiiy part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, $OOO ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications .for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mateurs in lilacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted .for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted .for direct reproduction
—any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid '
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies o/The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown,;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., %8 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
H. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanohai.— Brewer and Co.
T/ie'^xxlZefzoi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1905.
MR. REID SEES MR. DEAKIE.
Mb. Reid has been to see Mr. Deakin, to talk
about a campaign against “Socialism,” and, if
reports are true, has had a cool reception. In
truth, the time came long since for Mr. Deakin
to recognise that he is in the wrong camp, that
his natural place is with the men who believe
nearly as he does, whom he trusts and who have
trusted him, and not with the men who are
opposed to Federalism, to Protection, to Liber-
alism—and to Deakin. Only a man of Mr
Deakin’s extraordinarily implicative type of mind
could have avoided seeing that from the first.
But, as is George Meredith amoiig novelists, so
is Alfred Deakin among politicians. Fie has a
curious passion for exploring the
currents of action, for trying to see beneath
the surface to the deeper motives of political
movements, and this habit has led him to take
up sometimes the attitude that what is plain and
obvious must, therefore, be necessarily wrong;
that the broad, high-road trodden by the multi-
tude must be a false path simply because it is so
plain and so popular. Yet, as a matter of fact,
the political situation has sometimes no deeper
motives; the plain, apparent course is the best;
and the high-road is the shortest cut to an objec-
tive.
* « * *
In that notable year of Federal politics, 1904,
Mr. Deakin was obsessed by a resolution to do
something extraordinary. He was in office, and
kept in office by the Labor party. He was
anxious, therefore, that the Labor party should
take a share of the responsibility of government,
and invited Mr. Watson to come, with two others
of his party, into the Cabinet. The Labor
party refused the offer. The refusal was
unwise, but it had no necessarily disastrous
consequences. The Labor party was still
willing to give an honorable support to
Mr. Deakin, who was continuing the progressive
policy of Mr. Barton. But the refusal gnawed
at Mr. Deakin s heart, and he took a step which,
though Quixotic, was yet comprehensible enough!
The Labor party was inclined to shirk its share
of governing responsibilities. Very well, lie
would throw the whole burden of rule on Mr.
Watson. A minor difference of opinion, and
Mr. Reid’s eagerness to assassinate Mr; Deakin
in the hope that in a subsequent scramble he
could step into the dead man’s shoes, gave the
opportunity. Mr. Deakin went out and Mr.
W4TSON came into office, with the announced
determination of the ex-Premier to give him a
generous support.
• « * •
The position created thus was a curious
but a sound one, out of which a stable Govern-
ment could easily evolve. Mr. Watson
held office on sufferance with a minority fol-
lowing, and knew it. He was prepared to
give way to a Deakin-Watson coalition
when the time was ripe. Mr. Deakin
knew this, and knew also that with a
little patience the Commonwealth would be blessed
vvith a Government representing the great majo-
rity, and the best ideals, of its people, made up of
Radicals, Protectionists and Laborites, able to do
for Australia what Ballance and Seddon did for
Maoriland. The road ahead was absolutely clear.
But Mr. Deakin’s unfortunate love for the Other
Path came into the equation. It struck him that
it was not sufficient that the Labor party should
be taught that to honorable men office is an
onerous and inescapable responsibility. With the
evil voice of Mr. Reid prompting in his ear, he
came to the conclusion that the Labor party must
also have a term in direct Opposition to teach it
the whole duty of politics. A little plain horse-
sense would have saved Mr. Deakin at this
point; would have shown him that, great man as
he was among the current politicians, deservedly
trusted man as he was, there was no mandate
for him to take up the post of school-
master to the Labor party; that his attitude,
accepted at its best, was a curious mixture of
Quixotism and unconscious vanity. But good
counsel was lacking, and Mr. Deakin, who had
just been the victim of Mr. Reid’s knife, helped
Mr. Reid to sandbag Mr. Watson “ for the
Labor party’s good.” His motive was pure,
doubtless. The Bulletin would acquit Mr.
Deakin of having ever done a consciously evil or
corrupt thing in politics. But it was ineffably
foolish.
So Mr. Reid was escorted into office on the arm
of Mr. Deakin, and since then things political
cannot have gone very well with the Liberal
leader. He has seen Mr. Reid justify all the
worst fears of those who knew that the Yes-No
of the Federal campaign, the clown and trick
ster of N.S.W. State politics, must be an
unworthy Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
One of the protagonists of Federation, the man
who stood by the side of Barton, Kingston,
Wise and O’Connor in bringing the union into
being, has seen the Commonwealth Government
brought down to about the level of the Bent
Government, and a policy of re-action inaugu-
rated—of reaction towards Toryism on political
questions, and towards provincialism in national
matters. For the mistake that he made Mr.
Deakin has already paid bitterly. Now he must
face a further penalty or decide to retrace his way
and go back on those false steps which have
brought him into the Reid camp. He must join
the “ anti-Socialist Party,” or definitely break
with Mr. Reid. He must pledge himself to a
militant and lying Toryism or go back, carrying
the weight of his mistakes, to the Progressive
camp.
* * * 4*
To go back will be hard. To go forward will be
harder. What it means for Mr. Deakin to join
the “anti-Socialist Party” is to fall into step
with his own calumniators, and himself howl the
lies which were invented to hound him from
office. He must froth at the mouth over
a White Australia and argue that “the purity
of the home” can only tie safeguarded by
indenting Chinese and Japanese coolies to
Australia. He must squeak the Six Hatters lie,
and maintain that to make any attempt to keep
out undesirable immigrants is to be disloyal and
ungrateful to England. He must deplore, with
sobs, the murder (by himself) of the Petriana’s
crew, and from that blood-stained incident draw
arguments for the free admission of black men to
the Commonwealth. He must lie, and still lie,
and again lie, and hint that if Mr. Watson is not
cast out of Parliament the marriage tie will be
endangered and no one’s children safe from State
kidnapping. All these things he must do, or else
be of no use to the anti-Socialism party, which can
find no room for faint-hearted liars, and cannot
afford to go back on one of its scoundrelly slan-
ders of DeaKlN's own administration. Mr.
Deakin has gone far into the mire of Tory poli-
tics. Will he make this final plunge ?
•" * * *
If he were “Sir” Alfred Deakin, with an Im-
perial gaud or two on his breast and a Japanese
decoration on his coat-lapel; if he had made a
fortune in politics or in promoting an importing
business by stifling native industries; if he had
the social ambition and money-greed which mark
the wealthy lower orders in Australia, it would
be safe to calculate that Deakin would develop
into a great anti-Socialist leader. ' But, as it
is, that seems hardly possible. It may come;
anything is possible in love or politics. But we
doubt that Australia will have the pitiable spec-
tacle of seeing Alfred Deakin expatiating on the
Petriana atrocity from a public platform.
BACK TO THE KINGSTON TARIFF.
In private the Tariff Commission has come to the
conclusion that Reid’s shelving methods are bad,
and it is time a report was put in. At least half
of the members have so concluded—the half that
matters—for the chairman’s casting vote enables
the Protectionist half to be dominant. So, instead
of a ridiculous session of “ anti-Socialism, ” Aus-
tralia is likely to have a Federal session this year
of tariff revision. The tune set for the session
is “Back to the Kingston Tariff,” a tariff
which will suit the Australian factories, and suit
the State Treasuries also. The Kingston tariff
was worked out by Ministers who understood their
work. Kingston and Turner studied the details
week- after week, Kingston dealing with the
tariff as a tariff, and Turner checking it to see
that it would provide a sufficient revenue, and a
revenue, also, which would spread fairly over all
the States. Turner understood from the first the
difficulties of the Bbaddon sections. He was, at
one time, almost the only man who did, and his
pre-Referendum speech, at St. Kilda, fore-
casted exactly the troubles that have followed
from them. The original Kingston tariff was
drawn in full view of these difficulties, and was
justified in a Cabinet in which were keen, critical
eyes, and a true Federal spirit. It was torn to
pieces in a Parliament which had but small
notions of industrial needs, and a smaller notion
of how the Constitution was working. What
between RsiD-ites, who were only anxious to
reduce duties, and Labor Freetraders, who did
not know what was good for the country,
Kingston and Turner had hard work to save
their tariff, and it was not their fault that
a symmetrical work came through the two
Houses with so many bits chipped off by
ignorant workmen that the edges of it now are
sharp, and jagged, and that it works badly. More
than once the Ministers at the table would have
throwff the tariff in the faces of the silly crowd,
but that it was imperative that the Common-
wealth should have a tariff of some kind for
revenue purposes. As it was, they had to suffer
in silence, while REin-ites and, more the pity,
Labor men marred a good work—not an ideal
work, but the nearest that could be got to an
ideal within the limits of the Constitution.
Sometimes bits were broken off the work by
good Protectionists just because they would not
understand, as Kingston and Tubneb understood,
that, for the first 10 years, the Constitution was
limited with regard to the finances.
• * • *
How great care was given to the original tariff,
how difficult were the questions set in laying a
foundation which would last, can be judged from
the fact that three times the complete tariff came to
the Cabinet, and three times it went back to be
re-cast. The two main principles governing the
criticisms were the safety of the industries, and
the safety of the State Treasuries. The
work found both Kingston and Turner
vigorous men. It left them, after piling
upon their work in private a nine months
sitting in Parliament, both wrecked in health.
How they aged as they sat at the table day after
day, and month after month, while Reid made
stale jokes and skipped away to his private prac-
tice, while one Smith yelled for hours at a time,
and another Smith talked “high politics” like a
poll parrot ! The blows came from everywhere,
but always from men who were squinting through
a gimlet-hole at the tariff. It was always Reid
and Smith and Knox and Skene, but sometimes it
was Mauger and Hughes and Mahon and Tudor,
and, very often, King O’Malley, who struck the
blows. And yet the Ministers had to suffer it all
because the work in some fashion had to go
through. The bread and butter of 267,726 work-
men in the manufacturing industries of the Com-
monwealth was treated as a party football, and
the solvency of the State Treasuries as of no
account. As to capital, with £60,400,000 invested
in factories in the Commonwealth, the very
Smiths and Skenks who were undermining the
underpins of the factories were posing, at the
time, as the saviours of the capitalists from the
terrible Kingston ! It broke the hearts of two
devoted men to get as much of the tariff through
as was got, and it bitterly disappointed a third in
Deakin —the Minister most in sympathy with the
two at the table.
* * • *
Now, after a futile attempt to shelve the re-
organisation of the tariff by the appointment of a
long-winded commission, the Federal Parliament,
judging from what members say in private, has
come to its senses. It is going back to the King-
ston tariff, or a good part of the way back. The
needs 0f86,284 working people engaged in industries
directly competing with imported goods, are to have
more consideration, and the safety of £60,400,000
invested capital is to be considered. The pity of it
is that there is no Kingston to lead the way this
time; and only a very frail Turner to do his part.
The breaking strain cannot be placed upon the
camel twice. Fortunately there are Freetrade
Labor men come to their senses to fill the gap in
part—men who stood by consenting when King-
ston was stoned, just as Saul watched the stoning
of Stephen ; but they can only fill the gap in part.
There is a reaching out after a fiscal policy in the
Federal Parliament these days. Let the reach be
to the completed work of two men who labored
with understanding, and if, in reaching out
to it, some Democrats have to wear the
white robes of penitents, well, let them put
them on. Their pride counts nothing. The
wrong done to the country when the RKID-ite
vandals and image-breakers broke Kingston’s
work, and his heart, too, counts for much. We
have tried the “improved” Kingston tariff. Let
us try the original one. The soul of a great man
is in it, and that is a guarantee of its value.
FOOD FADS.
Almost every man nowadays is joining the order of
the monks of Mount Athos, and spending much
time in the contemplation of his stomach. Even
the youngest of us have livers and systems of diet.
Rich and poor alike are prone to poke an interfer-
ing finger into the works of the watch, and under-
take to teach the stomach how to digest. The
poor have their pills and potions—the innumerable
panaceas of the press advertisements —all war-
ranted to train the food-bag not to have a sense
of fulness when it is full, and to make a crushing
mill do the work of an ore-dresser and a cyanide
vat. The rich, with more expensive advice, get to
about the same result, with trips to spas, systems
of diet, and scientific drugging methods by which
the pig is made to give up his juices for the
digestion of his brother hog’s aldermanic banquets.
It is the age of food fads. Almost every eye is
turned introspectively to the stomach, and a vast
library accumulates of books about food and feed-
ing, and chewing and digesting, and—well, the
tale does not stop there. Even the drama reflects
the current craze, and one whole play and bits of
a hundred others have food for their theme. Man’s
life stretches from his breakfast food to his supper
—or his stern denial of supper, and is filled with
the digestions in between.
* * * -X
The breakfast-food fad begins the day. Break-
fast should be, above all meals, one of cheer-
fulness and good humor, tinged with the
rising hopes of a day’s achievement. In a bright
room ; roses trailing over the table, magpies
carolling outside; a hint of perfume from some
little pleasaunce stealing through the open win-
dow ; some food on the table. That is breakfast.
No matter much what food. The break faster is
fresh from his victory over what is next to Death,
he is full of thankfulness for the night, full of
hopes for the day. It is desecration to allow
thoughts to intrude, to dominate, of somebody’s
patent breakfast food which is an infallible remedy
for dyspepsia, or somebody else’s patent nose-bag
system of dry chewing which cures spots before the
eyes. The food really does not much matter so long
as it is the sort of food that the breakfaster feels that
he likes and is decently cooked. It is the break-
fasting spirit that matters, and of that spirit the
essential is to banish all pessimistic doubts as to
the possibility of digesting this or that. Begin
the day with doubts and you end it with dys-
pepsia.
* • * *
Lunch is a meal anathema to many food faddists.
For the man who is late in opening his desk or
tool-box, and early in closing it, that is all very
well. For the man whose hours of work are
eight or more it is, as a rule, ill Lunch-time
gives a chance to pause in the march of work, to
think over what haA been done and of what
is yet to do. But with not too serious
thoughts of work ; rather a sense of interlude
and the brisk enjoyment of a meal—frivolous
for the light worker, substantial for the man who
is moving heavy things, be they stones, political
principles, or massive enterprises. Again, only
one rule to be observed : eat what you like, and
don’t worry about its fate afterwards. The
stomach is a nervous worker, and hates to bo
watched at its toil.
* . * * *
until dinner-time should civilised man
think seriously of what he is to eat or eating.
Make breakfast-time a quiet munch, to accom-
pany rather than disturb mental processes—a
chewing over the end of good memories and
better anticipations. Make lunch-time an
entv 'acta between tasks. But at dinner, dine.
Give yourself up to the pleasure of food. What
your purse can buy and your taste allow, enjoy.
• • * *
“ The pleasure of food ’’—that’s the rub. The
bad object of all food faddism is to make food a
weariness and a burden. Food is to be nasty, lest
we eat too much of it. Food is to be chewed to
extinction, so as to make a hard work of feeding.
Food is to be limited in quantity to the bare
amount necessary for sustenance, for that is
economy and tends to work-efficiency. All of
which is arrant nonsense and founded on the
wholly foolish idea, which is more and more
obsessing civilisation, that man is on earth to
work. He is on earth to be glad ;if he doesn’t
believe that he is mad. Religious fanatics in
various lands and at different times have preached
that man should groan through this Life as a sort
of dismal ante-chamber to the next. That idea
had barely won general repudiation from the
civilised white man, before pseudo-scientists
came—and in the name of wisdom ! —to preach
something of the same doctrine, with this differ-
ence only, that we must fast and mortify, not for
the sake of Heaven, but for the sake of Stomach.
* * -fr 7T
Reason should revolt at the idea of enthroning
the stomach as a jealous Deity. When one wise
man was told that by abjuring alcohol and tobacco,
and flesh and all other things that pleased his
palate, and by confininghisstoking to sawdust stuffs,
he could live to be far greyer and more toothless
and more wrinkled than his compeers, he retorted
that for him better 50 years with cakes and ale
than 100 with grass and water. Similarly wise
was he to whom was recommended a singularly
nasty diet of some milk preparation warranted to
prolong his years; he reckoned that he would
prefer to die young. Rightly ; Tithonus did not
find immortality all fun. It is the intensity of
life that counts, not its duration. If more years
can be won from Death by being consistently
miserable, what is the use, since it is only adding
miserable years to miserable years? Tobacco,
wine, meat, spices, sweets, all the things which
tickle the palate shorten life ? Even so ; if they
sweeten it, the bargain is a fair one.
€ * * *
Most absurd of all food-fad arguments, and
marking the extreme of this modern folly, is that
recently founded on a consideration of the Japanese
war by a leading London paper. The Jap is a
highly efficient soldier, partly because he needs
but little food, and that of the most easily carried
and prepared kind. Therefore the Britisher should
adopt a Japanese dietary and become more
efficient. The inherent fallacy of all such theories
is the idea that Life is an object, not a means.
We have life so that we may live. We do not
live merely so that we may continue life.
•** * ,
That many people eat too much is, of course,
true. The test is, does their feeding make them
unhappy ? If so, their diet is unwise, and they
should reform. But that a comfortable man,
whose Department of the Interior is satisfactorily
performing the tasks which he sets it, should take
thought of how much less he should eat is an
absurdity. That anybody should abjure a
rational use of the pleasures of food is a
folly—almost a wickedness. So far as the study
of food and feeding goes to promote the comfort
and pleasure of man and the cheapening of good
meals, it is a worthy inquiry. So soon as it begins
to theorise on the basis that we eat merely to live,
it stands condemned. And for the great majority
of men the one and only safe rule of diet is to eat
what their appetites dictate, irrespective of pro-
portions of proteids, and so on ; and not to worry.
A diet of German sausage and bush tea, minus a
racking of the stomach with doubts and inquiries,
would be probably more wholesome than the most
perfectly-balanced menu science could devise,
solemnly chewed over with doubts and dismays,
and watched anxiously through every inch of its
progress back to primitive elements. There is
only one really essential order of etiquette with
“Little Mary,” and that is, not to watch the
lady at her work. Like any other industrious
female person, she resents that and becomes
flurried. Eat and don’t worry.
A SERMON (OF A SORT) ON GAMBLING.
Mb. J ustice Pbing has said that unless gambling
is put down something bad is coming for this
Commonwealth. When a Judge speaks, he is, as
a rule, worth listening to; and by others as well
as the man behind the spikes. But, in this case,
his Honor didn’t get down to bedrock at all. He
was behind the time to begin with. Something
very bad has come along. Australia has become
very like a board of green cloth for the
gamblers of the world. They are playing with our
silver and our gold, with our wool, our wheat;
our butter, our fruit. We do all the work and
keep the place in order, but scarcely get decent
wages, or commission for the use of the board.
But that is not the kind of gambling the Judge
means. J udges and bishops, even as reformers of
lower degree, do not meddle with gambling of that
sort.
• * » •
Nor yet do they touch that other sort of
gambling which goes on without a murmur of
complaint in the mining and other exchanges.
Still less that other vaster, almost universal form
in which every; man who starts a business, sinks
a shaft, builds a church, or a school, or takes up a
block of country, stakes his work, cash or credit
on the chances of the place and the coming time;
Gambling is really a big, a complex, a world-
embracing thing. “ But there is gambling and
gambling,” the Judge will say, speaking for the
classes he represents. And that is true. Nor is it
easy to say which particular sort of gamblingis most
responsible for putting people behind the spikes.
We have seen men who gambled in scrip there;
and some others who gambled in houses and lands,
in ships and goods; some even of those whose
dice or cards were chances of church preferment
or revenue. They all do it; and a fair percentage
of all sorts “falls in” occasionally.
* * * *
The reason of the increase of one particular sort
of gambling is that it is easy, quick, and associated
with the sport passion which is also common to
humanity; and, under certain arrangements,
its returns to the lucky ones are big. So big
as to enable a man to get to hell with celerity
and eclat, or otherwise to establish himself com-
fortably in life. And there is another reason
better than that, and never mentioned by
preacher, teacher, or Judge. It is that the eyes or
the majority of white men are wide enough opened
now to recognise that nine-tenths at least of the


luxury of life is the product of gambling. If not
won directly from gambling, it is from “besting,”
and that is worse. This mansion and that, this
equipage and . that, the voluptuous flutter of
femininity, that lordly stride on the pavement,
and that abject deference of all men, come by
gambling or by downright sweating and swindling,
which are the vilest forms of robbery. Most men
and women in the world want to be luxurious or
voluptuous, or pompous or powerful. Very few of
them have brains to swindle or opportunity to
sweat, but all can do a bit of a gamble. They
would need to go backwards through Nature’s
moulding mill to get rid of the propensity and
capacity of gambling. And all that can be done
short of that process must be in the way of guid-
ance or restraint, or, as with zymotic disease, the
creation of conditions that shall be fatal, or at
least awkward, for the germ.
* * * *
The way lies in insisting on, and fighting
towards, such conditions as would give to every
man, woman and child a fair chance of a fair share
of the comforts of life, and without the necessity
of gambling. And a first step towards accomplish-
ment of that sort would be by Judge and bishop,
preacher and teacher attacking the big and the
successful, not the small and the unfortunate
gamblers. They must not neglect the swindlers
and the sweaters in so doing. That would be to
neglect the larger duty in the performance of the
less. Go for the whole lot, and if you want the
b?st intelligence department the supreme war of
humanity has evolved, go to George Frederick
Watts’ picture of “ Mammon.” Mammon seated
on humanity as a toad on a stool ; Mammon
bulging and bloating with suction of the life blood
of the whole sweltering mass of the workers, the
sufferers, the criminals of the world. He sits so
in miniature on a thousand stools of this Common-
wealth, and because of the burden of his oppres-
sion are most of the evil things we lament or
palaver about.
* • • *
There is nothing to respect or esteem in Mam-
mon, when you see him as he is. Marcus Clarke
said once, “If you want to know what God
Almighty thinks about money, just look at the
sort of people He permits to acquire it.” Truly
they are not of the sort to beget respect or
esteem. They radiate the unholy light of osten-
tation, they scatter the seeds of envy, of fierce,
undisciplined desire. They have not a vestige of
admirable past to justify their present trespass
and all-round loaf on humanity. They are where
they are and what they are because they have done
some successful gambles, or otherwise swindled the
State or swindled the workers. And as in the
days of old the grandeur of the strong thief begat
the desire of the mean thief, so to-day does the
luxury and splendor of the big gambler beget the
desire of the little gambler. As the mean marau-
der, the masterless man, had to take desperate
chances, so the small gambler has often to run
desperate risks. And as the one came sometimes
to the wheel or the gibbet, so does the
other come, now and again, to penal servi-
tude or hard labor. But even as the stout
thief, the baron, could hold wheel and gibbet
in contempt, so can the great gambler
quietly ignore both the law and the prophets.
Mammon sits fast amongst us, even as Watts
painted him. He is the chartered gambler, the
licensed swindler, the churchgoing sweater, the
tolerated thief, and neither Judge nor bishop will
attack him. Yet he can only suck up the susten-
ance essentia] to his being from conditions which
are remediable —in some cases easily remediable
with the help of those classes which are trusted in
a special way to give light and leading to the
people, and mostly fulfil that trust by joining
associations to oppose any attempt at social
betterment through politics.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tlie Rows that Arbitration Prevents.
The Arbitration Act is like a good policeman—
the public doesn’t see the rows they both stop.
Here is a case. Twelve years ago there was a
desperate strike and struggle at the Broken Hill
mines ; it lasted nearly live months, cost the State
and the co.’s tens of thousands of pounds (for
months the big mine was like a garrison), and
knocked the town endways for years. Most of
the leaders were gaoled ; and the men were at
last driven back, broken and bitter. From the
moment that the strike was declared off prepara-
tions were made for another struggle. Scores
of men lived for nothing else but to wipe
out that defeat. The unions gathered strength,
working always in secret, biding their time
for what threatened to be the most despe-
rate struggle in Australia. The whole town knew
it must come, and nobody in business felt safe.
For years progress was at a standstill. The
co.’s knew it, and hesitated to enter into new
enterprises. Then the Arbitration Act was
passed—this Act which is alleged by the stupid
Tories to have caused nothing but trouble. At
once the miners put in their demands —just such
demands as they would have been prepared to
fight for with the weapon of the strike. The
court sat, inquired into the business, and
fixed the working conditions. Now note the
result. From that moment the co.’s, the oppres-
sing uncertainty removed, began to lay plans for
the future. Zinc works were established.
Concentrating mills were duplicated. Mines
which had closed down with lead at £l4
per ton re-opened with lead at £l2 per
ton. In about two years the number of em-
ployees increased over 50 per cent. And in
Broken Hill town restored confidence showed
itself in the substitution of permanent buildings
for the ricketty structures that had served for
years. The public sees the small troubles winch
the early operations of the Act have caused—
sees them magnified by unpatriotic newspapers.
But it doesn’t see the rows that have been pre-
vented, just as it doesn’t see the rows or the rob-
beries that the prudent, watchful policeman pre-
vents upon his beat.
Labor and Religion.
Australian Tory press is quoting as arguments
against the Labor party such writings as these
from official Labor papers :
Where Labor men and women of every faith, and
want of faith, meet together, the order of the day should
be, “ No gods or doffs admitted.” . . . Labor as Labor knows
nothing more supernatural than the growth of a cabbage
or the development of an idea. Its credo is purely
materialistic, concerning no world but this world. Gods
it looks upon with suspicion, as probable violators of
unionism. The Labor movement is founded upon soli-
darity, and the gods are the great disintegrators.
[Fair to remark, by the way, that the N.S.W.
Worker does not print, and never has printed
such stuff.] It is what may be classed as “sharp
tactics ” on the part of the Argus and other
journals to print these silly and superfluous re-
marks about God as the official opinions of the
Labor party. They are not, of course. But since
they’re printed by some of Labor’s official papers
the presumption is at least possible that Labor
approves of them. And that presumption is being
used for all it is worth, and will be used, to alarm
voters away from the Labor cause. A pity that
Labor leaders cannot persuade Labor editors of
the folly of that sort of writing. We are all of us
—especially the young—inclined at times to dis-
approve of God. He seems to set up in rivalry to
our own omniscience. But that has nothing to do
with politics. So far, Labor politics have been
quite clean of sectarianism, and for that reason
have been more Christian than any other brand of
politics in the market. But it will suit the Tory
press to identify the party with atheism as well as
with free-love and anarchy. By printing such
matter as has been quoted, certain of the Labor
papers help the Tory cause considerably.
♦
The Gluttonous Manufacturer.
When the manager of the Ballarat woollen mills
was before the Tariff Commission latel some of
the members got hold of the company’s figures,
noted a 15 per cent, div., asked whether that
wasn’t good enough, and set the foreign-trade
press yapping concerning the profits which glut-
tonous manufacturers seek to squeeze out of the
publie by means of higher protection. There are
four woollen-mill co.’s which make their figures
available ; and here is the cold record for last year
of the lot:
Profit. Dividend.
Parramatta .. £1220 Nil
Loss.
Queensland .. 2880 Nil
Profit.
Oastlemaine .. 836 2 per cent.
Ballarat .. 4523 15 per cent., nominal.
There isn’t one of these which isn’t heavily in
debt—even the Ballarat Cos., the one fairly
successful enterprise, which got a start under the
old Vic. State tariff, has a considerable over-
draft. And that co.’s apparent prosperity isn’t
as real as it looks. Fifteen years ago it wrote
down its capital from £40,000 to £IO,OOO. Pre-
ference shares then had to be issued in order to
keep the business going, and for about 10 years
the ordinary shareholders did not get a fraction.
The first div. to ordinary shareholders was paid
at the end of 1899 ; and, though what has since
been paid represents 15 per cent, of the capital as
it now stands, it only represents 71. per cent, of
the total which has actually been put into the
concern, the £30,000 which was written off car-
rying, of course, no dividend at all. The
average received is, moreover, far below even 7%
per cent., seeing that from 1890 to 1899 the
ordinary shareholders received nothing whatever.
The Castlemaine Cos. has put £30,000 into the
business ; but in order to keep its head above
water it has had to issue debentures (£3100), and
last half-year its overdraft was increased by
nearly £4500, making the total £10,967. The
Queensland Cos., which carries on business
at Ipswich, came into existence with the
help of a 25 per cent. State duty, and
by the beginning of 1901 had reached the point of
actually paying a dividend of per cent, (it
hadn’t paid anything for years). At this point,
Queensland helped into the Federal Parliament
some Freetraders, who cut the protection down to
15 per cent. Mark the significant movement in
the results: —
Profits. Profits.
1898 .. £3169 1902 .. £2140
1899 .. 3883 Loss.
1900 .. 4168 1903 .. 1386
1901 .. 5151 1904 .. 2880
These figures include nothing, by the way, for
wear and tear of plant. Allowing for depreciation,
in five years the co. has lost £10,807. In 1899-
1900, with 25 per cent, protection, it paid £15,630
in wages on manufacturing account; last year,
with 15 per cent, protection, it was only
able to pay £10,253; and with the losses
increasing it seems obvious enough that it must
presently cease paying wages altogether. The
Parramatta Cos. was formed at the end of 1899,
in the expectation of great things from Federa-
tion; but it now finds out that Parramatta has
helped to make the great things impossible by
returning foreign - trade Cook. Hence it has
already managed to accumulate £BOOO of deben-
tures, and, when the last report was issued, £9090
of overdraft. Such is the disheartening record of
the results of the enterprise of these “grasping
monopolists,” who only want higher duties in
order to batten still more upon the public!
Their total net profits for last year were
£3u99. Compare that with the profits for two
years past of three Australian softgoods import-
ing houses :
1903. 1904.
D. &W. Murray, Ltd. .. .. £35,650 £58,095
Paterson, L., & Brcce, Ltd. .. 17,458 40,146
R. Reid & Cos., Ltd .. .. 19,596 20,601
Totals .. .. £72,704 £118,842
Made by employing Australians to use up Aus-
tralian products for Australian use, £3699. Made
by employing foreigners to use up products
(largely Australian) for Australian use, £118,842 !
And the latter figures are for only three of at least
40 large houses m the importing business. But
still it’s the £3699 people who are the gluttons !
From a Far Country.
The Australasian fell asleep, the other day, and
printed an article headed, “ A Valuable Lesson
from Denmark.” The Danes have a country so
small that, unless one knows just where to look,
it can hardly be found on a map of the world.
Yet this little country, half the size of Scotland,
exports dairy produce to the value of £20,000,000
every year. And this is why, according to the
Australasian article, it can do so -
The land system at one time consisted of large land-
owners and tenant-farmers. This was found not to be
conducive to intense farming, and a change to every
farmer being his own landlord was made. In 1849 a law
was passed prohibiting any landlord putting two small
farms into one, and since that time the Government has
given every encouragement to the farmer to become his
own landlord. Estates and large farms have been broken
up into small holdings, and at the present day 90 per
cent, of the Danish farmers own their own farms.
The result is that, while in England there are
nine town dwellers to every country resident, in
Denmark the rate of country to town dwellers is
six to four. This is the very thing the Tory
party professes to desire. Yet every move
made by the progressive party in Australia
towards applying the proved methods of
the Danes in order to accomplish it is met
by fierce opposition, misrepresentation, and
weird screams about Socialism, confiscation, and
interference with the liberty of the subject. The
Australasian article was founded on a very
practical paper read by a hard-headed Scottish
farmer, who had formed one of a commission sent
specially across to investigate the successful
system of the Danes. Summing up the result,
this farmer says:—
The Danish land system not only develops man physi-
cally and morally, but also mentally. It makes men of
character, independent and intelligent, so that they are
not only good farmers, but also good citizens and level-
headed statesmen.
Altogether a welcome and valuable contribution
to the evidence in favor of abolishing the big
landlord—and incidentally in favor also of heap-
ing scorn upon all the political ideas of the Argus
and the Australasian.
♦
Westralia’s Crying Need.
Barring Queensland, that shocking example of
past legislative sins of omission and commission,
Westralia is the only State in Australasia which
has no land tax in any shape ; and it can’t begin
to collect one too soon. In proportion to its size,
it has probably a smaller area of good agricultural
land than any other State ; and nearly the whole
of what is good has been grabbed by Gropers
who, in most cases, are putting it to very poor
use. Considering the magnificent start which the
gold fields gave Westralian agriculturists, providing
absolutely the best market in Australia, production
should simply have leaped ahead. But the pitiful
fact is that while in ten years the gold production
has been multiplied by 23, the total area under
cultivation has only been multiplied by three. In
1904 there was still but a beggarly 283,750 acres
under crop of any kind, or an average of just over
1 acre per head of the largely-adult population,
while in N.S.W. the cultivated land is 2'2 acres
per head, and in Victoria nearly 3 acres excluding
lands planted with grasses. Yet no State has
tried harder to whip up an agricultural population;
no State has printed so many pretty pictures of.
its rural charms; no State has offered more
liberal terms. Whether there are arable patches
still available is of no consequence ; the fact that
does strike practically every man who goes west
to spy out the land is that the best is gone, and
that very little use is being made of it ; and the
intending settler isn’t likely to take kindly to a
country which first shows him good unused land
near the railways, and then offers him poorer or
heavily-timbered country far back from the
roads to market. In the wayside pubs, in the
heart of some of the best of the south-western
lands, long since grabbed by the Gropers, the
traveller still has to take condensed milk
with his tea, and imported bacon with no
egg to keep it company for breakfast. Very
few of these indolent settlement-blockers will sell;
and if they did sell it would only be at a price
which would still block the enterprising settler of
small means—the very man whom the State
needs. Already, therefore, there is a loud call for
State repurchase of lands for closer settlement.
The farce of it in a country possessing 624,588,800
acres, of which 283,752 acres (one acre in every
2170) are cultivated ! There were never circum-
stances under which a land-tax was more loudly
called for—never circumstances under which less
objection could be taken to it. Practically all the
lands are still held by the original holders, who
gave next to nothing for them, so that it
is not a question of taxing a man on money which
he has saved up and invested ; it is simply a ques-
tion of taxing for public purposes on the basis of
values which the public itself has created. And
there is call for the tax, not only to force the land
into use while there is still an unparalleled
market wherewith to give the settler a start in his
struggling stage, but also for purposes of revenue ;
for it is becoming clearer every month that, even
with economy, some new taxation must be im-
posed in Westralia.
Suppose it had been John Bull, instead of the
Bear, that had bumped against the Monkey !
Writing from near Pretoria to Seddon, at the end
of the war against the Dutch farmers in S’Africa,
General Hutton said :
It would be folly to suppose that the 200,000 men now
in S’Africa have the organisation, the training, or the
equipment which would fit them to compete successfully
with the armies of Europe.
And what was reckoned one of the finest armies of
Europe has now had a shockingly bad time ; yet
“it would be folly to suppose” that the British
army could compete with even the army that has
gone down ! As for the Australian force, Gen. Hut-
ton said only at the end of last year, that “the
equipment of the defence force is deplorable,” and
that “if war came to Australia we should find
ourselves worse off than France before Sedan -
and he ought to know. The fact is that we have
hidden behind the “mother country’s” skirts,
with no thought that those skirts would be a very.
poor protection against a modern army. Yet
£250,000 a year (which we pay now as a naval
subsidy) would work wonders in the way of self-
help ; it could give us at once a gun and torpedo
factory, and the nucleus of a naval defence which
would be here when it was wanted.
♦
“ A Student” on a large matter
The Bulletin does w ell to take up arms against the
teaching of “Tory Imperial politics” in State schools.
This grounding in Tory politics is not of recent growth.
Were it so, the Australian had not hired himself out to
Coiien in S’Africa. Take a glance at the history that has
been taught in our schools during the last 15 years. The
text-book rejoiced under the title of “ The Empire,” and
in it all democratic ideas are suppressed and ridiculed.
Pitt is placed upon a pedestal that the children may
worship him and his intensely Tory mind ; while a casual
mention is all that is given to Charles Pox, the true hero
of the most important period in English history. Europe
is pictured as being crushed • under the feet of that
monster of conquest — Napoleon ; whereas it was the
kings of Europe who were the real tyrants. That
Napoleon was the power of the people personified is
carefully hidden from the prying minds of the pupils.
That Pitt was fighting for the aristocracy’s “right” to
grind the people and keep them in the position of serfs is
never mentioned. That England was in the direst
poverty during Napoleon’s wars while France was pros-
pering is suppressed as carefully as possible. The whole
book reeks of Toryism and lies. How, then, can we be
surprised that Australians have partly forgotten Liberty,?
♦
Bishop Barlow (N.S.W.) is still using his pulpit
for a cock-shy at bogeys of his own making :
There never was a greater mistake in this wide world
than when the wild, weird air of the French Revolution
rang out the co' of “ equality.” Yet they would hear
something of the kind during the next few weeks from
those who would tell them they were going to provide a
pohtical millennium, when all men would enjoy equality
of possessions, of income, and receive equal blessings from
the hand of a paternal Government.
Will Bishop Barlow come down to hard, solid
details, and say (1) who proposes these things
(names wanted), and (2) when they proposed them
(their words wanted). The Bulletin is very tired
of bishops and smaller clerical fry who stand in
their cowards’ castles and whirl words around;
and so it begs Dr. Barlow for particulars, because
it wants to aim a brick at these mischievous, mis-
guided people itself. But if Bishop Barlow won’t
give the information, then it will have to conclude
that he's the mischievous, misguided party ; and
—well, The Bulletin must use its brick.
There is hardly a country in the world that
hasn’t, in some respect or other, more Socialism
than Australia. France, Hungary, Italy, and
Japan have Socialism in the tobacco business.
Russia, Switzerland, and Scandinavia have
Socialism in the liquor business. Germany has
Socialism in accident and other insurance. The
United States have Socialism to the extent of
auditing insurance accounts. Great Britain has
started Socialism in the milk business. Prussia
has socialism in the mining industry. Denmark
has Socialism in general banking and insurance.
The great Java Bank is under the control of
the Netherlands Government. In Norway the
Norges Bank, controlled by the State, is the only
bank which can issue notes. In Switzerland
all banks of issue are subject to State inspection.
Greece runs an Agricultural Bank ; when currants
are ready for shipment, from 10 to 20 per cent, is
taken, stored in Government depots, sold locally,
and the proceeds passed over to this Agricultural
Bank. In Germany last year the Reichsbank
made a profit of £ 1,322,077, the State taking
£851,277. And still the stupid party, this
Stinking Fish party, tries to stuff it down Aus-
tralia’s throat that Socialism is a sort of disease
practically unknown outside these lands, and that
everywhere else the State doesn’t so much as ask
Private Enterprise what it’s up to.
“ A Tired Soul ” claims some sympathy :
lam only a country storekeeper’s assistant, but I hear
things. A chief spouter of the local Labor body was in
the other day. He told me he was a Freetrader, because
the worker had a right to always get best quality at
low'est price. I remarked, in my most deferential, shop-
assistant manner, that that sounded all right, provided
the worker could get work to earn the money, but that
all goods were dear when a man’s only asset was a hungry
family. He countered with the gags about statutory
hours of labor, minimum wage, etc., while I booked
his order, which included American candles, Japanese
matches, Swedish horse-shoe nails, Manila rope and
Victorian jam made with Java sugar. (Offered one or
two Australian articles, but he preferred imported as
“ more reliable.”) I tried to hold my tongue, for fear he
would transfer his custom to the Chinese stores, which
are already cutting “white business” throats with
impossible prices, but I couldn’t—l simply had to ask
what use was the minimum wage when the man could
get no work to do. Of course he was all there —the
State should provide work. But I wanted to know
where the State (I’m afraid I said the blanky State) was
going to get the money to pay him eight bob a day to
turn out inferior (as he said) work to the Japs, Chows,
Filipinos, and other assorted colored brethren, toiling at a
bellyful of rice and for any hours at all. Then the order
was cancelled, and the boss went ofF the handle and talked
of the sack if it happened again, and another Freetrade
Laborite said it made him sad to see a young Australian
so much opposed to the rights of the people.
' ♦— —• — :
“ B.” : Premier Carruthers continues to tell the
people of N.S. Wales to go on the land, while the
Lands Department does its best to exclude them
from it. For instance —by supplying inaccurate
information and faulty maps; by refusing to
supply information; by shutting up land in
water, timber, and travelling stock reserves for
the sole benefit of the adjoining squatters ; by
delaying the survey of selections for months,
and even years, after applicants have gone
through all the preliminary formalities; by
making land exchanges which have simply
consolidated big estates and deteriorated the
value of Crown lands; by withholding arable land
from selection ; and, worst of all, by deliberately
handing over to already bloated holders, on im-
provement leases, vast quantities of land admir-
ably adapted for agriculture. The extent to
which intending settlers have been excluded
from Crown lands by the latter expedient
may be understood when it is stated that
during 1902-3, there were no less than
2,390,000 acres of expired leases in the Central
Division alone, let to adjoining squatters as im-
provement leases at rentals varying from 2’29d. to
3'BBd. per acre. And the high rental of these
lands—previously locked up since 1884, and now
closed against settlement until 1924—shows that
they were something far better than mere grazing
lands. Mr. Crick’s bad excuse for withholding
these areas from selection was that he did not
intend to encourage small settlement during the
drought. In this direction, as in all the other
tortuous windings of his Lands Office regime, he
was always backed up by Premier Carruthers,
who could never eulogise him sufficiently.
♦
Compared with Australian Tory papers, London
Times is good Australian. Thus it 8 :
We are all familiar, no doubt, with the ideal of a white
Australia ; and it is one with which, reasonably interpre-
ted and pursued by reasonable means, no Englishman can
have anything but sympathy.
Certainly it isn’t clear how the quality of an ideal
itself can be affected by the means adopted to
realise it; still it is good news to learn that, in the
Times’judgment, “ no Englishman ” canhaveany-
thing else but sympathy with the ideal itself. The
chief difference between the Englisman as the
Times thinks of him, and the poor creature who
lives in Australia and “ kids ” himself that he is
an Englishman, is that one loves England and the
race, while the other loves his pocket and wants
to fill it by exploiting the labor of any cheap
colored person he can get hold of.
The Tory press’ bitterest complaint against
the Trades Hall, for years past, has been that it
is a class-political organisation. Yet the Chamber
of Commerce announces its intention to enter the
arena of active politics, to organise for its class
and the press pats it warmly on the back.
White Australia.
The White Australia policy is beginning to prove a
Costly matter to the Common wealth.-— The London Times.
And yet, for a dream, has England
Oft lavished her wealth untold,
And, careless alike of loss and gain,
Held honor more dear than gold.
Are we so ruled by the huckster
That even our pride of race
Must kneel to the God of Profit,
Whose shrine is the market-place ?
Our blood was the blood of Shakspeakk,
It gloried in heroes’ veins,
The stream that strayed from the fountain,
As the fountain, is free of stains.
If the Pure of the Earth shall triumph,
Then the Foul of the Earth must fall;
Wherefore, we are raising no Harlot land,
With a wanton’s love for all.
Is the getting of gold their mission,
That we in our youth are told
To sully our blood for treasure,
And barter our dreams for gold ?
To the last, least drop of its red surge,
The tide in our veins runs bright;
Our bones and marrow, our brain and thought,
And soul and body are white.
And this to the Times we answer
(And all loud fools of the time):
That the path we marked for our nation
Is the way of a dream sublime.
And some may murmur of folly,
And moan at the price we pay ;
But the gates are shut —shut fast, shut firm—
And shut till the Judgment Day.
NOMEN.


The Mutual [ife Insurance Co. of ||eui york
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
STATEMENT for YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1904
(as received by cable).
Assets..
Contingent Guarantee Fund and Divisible Surplus ..
Income, 1904
Payments to Policy-holders, 1904 ..
Insurance In Force
Exceed d 590,549,000
„ 15,268,000
„ 18,521,000
„ 7,137,000
„ 317,784,000
During the year 1904 the New Insurance issued and paid for (excluding restorations and
changes) amounted to £47,131,000, showing an INCREASE of £3,440,000 over the
previous year.
HEAD OFFICE FOR AUSTRALASIA-
Company’s Building, Martin Place and Pitt-street, Sydney.
RICHARD RENNIE, General Manager.
I FACILE PRIIMCEPS.
SEMPER IDEM.
GHANAN WHISKY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Orchid.”
Theatre Royal “A Royal Divorce.”
Tivoli '. Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ The Skirt Dancer.’
Belmore Park Fitzgeralds’Circus.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirths’Circus.
Queen’s Hall Abomah.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Princess’s “ Theodora.”
Her Majesty’s “ Tom Moore.”
Theatre Royal “The Best of Friends” (Bland
Holt Co.)
Opera House Little Tich.
Prince’s Court Easter Bill.
Athenaeum Hall Avalon Collard Co.
Town Hall “Mors Et Vita,” Good Friday
Night.
*
Name-giver of “The Skirt Dancer” showed
considerable “knowingness” and knowledge of
human nature. “Skirt”and “dancer” are words
that draw in the advts. of a musical comedy co.,
and with this bait the Stephenson Co. re-opened
at the Criterion on Saturday. Cri. has just come
out of the hands of re-modellers, decorators,
and art-furnishers, and the packed audience
that welcomed May Beatty, Edward Lauri,
and the rest of a regiment of clever
players and farceurs took their pleasure comfort-
ably. The Skirt Dancer, played by Miss Beatty,
does not dance, but the audience is given ito
understand that she has in the past danced away
the hearts of rich, vulgar, city men, elegant brass-
bound naval officers, and other sinners as success-
fully as a certain Biblical lady danced off a Saint’s
head. Miss Beatty is such an all-alive-oh
actress that her vivacity more than atones
for her minor voice. Edward Lauri. as
the loud city magnate, is the mainspring, full of
whirr and buzz, of the combination. Edward
M'Naughton acts the polite-lunatic sort of British
aristocrat, Lord Harry Parkton, with great
success, and his eccentric dancing has some quite
novel effects. Miss Roland Watts-Phillips is
food, as she is in every one of her roles, as Lady
’arkton, the Gorgon-like sister of the gay naval
officer. The Gibson Girl ballet, the Rose quar-
tette, a masked ball, and a lot of light, bright
music all go to make up a very beguiling evening’s
entertainment.
* W # «
A crowded house greeted the revival of
“A Royal Divorce,” at Sydney Royal, on Satur-
day. The demerits of the play assure for it an
abounding popularity ; that it is historically
inaccurate in every particular—makingof Napoleon
a melodramatic personage with a fondness for
lapsing into Exeter Hall moralisings, and of Jose-
phine a virtuous and much-injured wife—matters
nothing in view of the catching sentiment that
the man of Destiny was punished by Providence
(working, as usual, through the British arm) for
putting away the dashing widow who married
him in the days of his youth and inexperience,
and was as unfaithful to him as she dared to be
afterwards. The piece is eked out with some
incidental songs and dances and pictures ; and
pictures go to the great heart of the people—
especially when, as in this case, they are un-
mistakably good.
* * * *
In some important particulars the cast , is
new to Sydney. Mr. Julius Knight, as Napoleon,
is familiar. He seems, nowadays, to put more
stress and high color into his performance of
the Emperor, and that’s not an improve-
ment. Miss Maud Jeffries, on the other hand,
pitches Josephine in far too low a key. The
Creole lady was, doubtless, a languorous, but cer-
tainly not a weepful person, and had enough of
experience of men to know not to be miserable
when she wished to he attractive. Miss IJnie
Russel], as Stephanie de Beauharnais, has plenty
of vivacity, but shows a regrettable tendency to
over-act. That notwithstanding, she was one of
the bright features of the performance. Popul ir
appreciation showered itself on Mr. G. P. Carey
for a realistic low-comedy drunk scene, and Mr.
Plimmer made an emphatic figure as Augereau.
As before remarked, the tableau pictures were
excellent—especially the last.
* * # *
_ Latest novelty at the Tiv6li is calculated to
give the Man from the Land plenty to talk about
when he gets back to Boggabri after Show-time.
To the man who doesn’t know anything about
liquid air, the Magic Kettle gives the impression
of a most marvellous hit of conjuring; to
the man who has read something of it,
the show is a series of deeply interesting
experiments. Such an uncanny thing is liquid
air that the operator (who for’show purposes
mixes his business with much mysterious mum-
ming) is able to provide a remarkably varied set
of results, which hit the audience every time.
The artistic young American “impressionist,”
Kara the deft juggler, and others mentioned
hitherto, contribute to a good holiday bill. But
Miss Pierce should drop that sketch of the girl
who takes too much wine. A tipsy woman is far
too unpleasant a sight to be recalled to memory
on the stage. The fact that it is a French girl
who has supped not wisely but too well doesn’t
make the thing any better. We all know that
the unhappy French can never be like us in
regard to good behavior and morals. But let us
pity them and pass on, without staging the
totterings of their vinous females.
* # *- *
“The Orchid,” as cultivated at Her
Majesty’s, looks like being a perpetual. It carries
its second crop of blooms now. “ The Cingalee ”
has been threatened for some weeks, but there
isn’t any book-office reason as yet for making the
change.
** * &
The tent that Wirth Bros, have put up in
Exhibition Park, Sydney, is among the largest that
has come to this haobor city. It equals in
appearance that which the Flying Jordans brought
along some few years ago. The present struc-
ture covers a spiked ring for the wild beasts,
the loop that Chefalo loops so desperately, the
ring in which the men and horses perform, and 5000
spectators, and then leaves plenty of elbow-room.
The place swarms with wild beasts : lions, tigers—
seven of these latter, some on horseback, some on
tricycles, some in a chariot; wildebeeste, hyaena,
and a gorgeous array of elephants, roll through
the show like a combination of Asia and Africa,
with the dominant white man on top of the . jot.
The lamb and the lion, the hyaena and the goat,
and the dog and the tiger foregather. The lion
dislikes the goat. Even the hyaena has a feeling
that the animal disrespectfully spoken of in the
Scriptures is not quite class ; and as for the goat,
he goes, like Agag, delicately. There are several
absolutely new features, such as the two chim-
panzees on the,swinging ladder ; Doyle and Denny,
the burlesque gymnasts; Dolly, a tigress which
rides a tricycle with the malicious grin of a lady’s
maid suddenly set to do the washing ; and stock-
whip feats by Mr. J. Kelly. Mayazel’s aerial
contortions make the blood run cold, but the way
blindfolded Wild Friday throws daggers round
the head of a girl tied to a board, and finally
places one in the parting of her hair, freezes the
breath. Colquett, the jumper, still jumps light as
any airy trifle, and thp circus-goer now gazes upon
Chefalo as he loops the loop and jumps the
chasm outside, free of extra charge. Altogether
it is a fine show, stamped all over with the impress
of hard work and infinite attention to detail.
** * *
Our black brothers who have been warb-
ling in these parts for many years as the Fisk
Singers will be baCk in Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night. Since they were here last a new
colored brother has joined them —a tenor named
Tisdale, fresh from the old plantations, and said
to graphically recall the departed Wallace King.
** # *
The ancient Australian firm of Fitzgerald
Bros, is back at Belmore Park, amongst the ruins
of Sydney’s new station. The Fitzgeralds have
had bad luck with one of the star turns, their
specially imported elephants, several thousand
pounds’ worth having died within a few weeks.
But there are plenty of other attractions. The
last of the elephants, a rather petted baby, who
goes to sleep between the acts, is put through
some interesting performances. But he objects t®
heights. Nothing of the suicide in his nature.
The Japanese wrestlers are a cheerful show,
and the Australian gazes curiously at these
yellow men from Dai Nippon, ' feeling, in-
stinctively,- that the day will come when
they and we will be “in holts.” By the way,
these wrestlers give a bad knock to the idea that
the Japs are small men.' Thqv are anything but
little —what they lack in height they make up for
in breadth. A very bright feature of the Fitz-
gerald show is the Herbert troupejof aerialists.
These gifted high-flyers do their work with an
easy grace, and there is a rhythm about their
movements that is decidedly charming. The
presence of nets below takes all the horror out of
the business. The Fitzgerald Bros., in fact, have
aimed at putting forward a show which will have
plenty of sensation but no shudders, and they
have succeeded.
** * *
Scots we ha’e with us are on the eve of a
braw time. Miss Jessie Maclachlan, a much-
praised Scottish prima donna, will open in Sydney
Town Hall on May 5 for a season of three nights.
If reports speak truly, and the reports are
corroborated by a cloud of witnesses, Miss
Maclachlan can make exiles from Caledonia
see again t their native land, not stern
and wild, with its heather and its wind. She can
make them feel the mystic charm of its purple
glens and shaggy uplands. With Miss Jessie
come Mr. John M‘Linden, a Scottish ’cellist,
and Mr. R. Buchanan, pianist and conductor.
Mr. F. Shipman is manager for the star.
* & * -&
Abomah, the giantess on view at the
Sydney Queen’s Hall, when she raises her flail-
like arm and clenches her sable fist to show how
she firmly holds aloof bold, bad men, is really an
awesome personage. She is j-oung (perhaps 26),
well-proportioned, speaks English better than a
lot of people who come in and ask her what “she
growed on,” and can give the retort smart, cour-
teous, or sarcastic. In Maoriland a chief of high
degree proposed that she should share his green-
stone gods and his whare, which he was willing to
enlarge considerably ; but Abomah said “No.”
** * #
“Tambour Major,” at the Theatre Royal,
comes to the end of a fairly prosperous season to-
night (Thursday). Two' changes in the cast
resulted last week from the sudden illness of
Rebottaro, and one of these changes took, the form
of John Wallace who reappeared in, his old
character of Bambini. Wallace is less slim and
nimble than he was 20 years ago, but he managed
to give weight for age and a handsome
beating to the previous Bambini. Also, he made
it easier for George Majeroni to play the Due.
This combination of two capable actors strength-
ened some of the scenes considerably, whilst the
orchestra and chorus were toning down and
waking up to numerous points which had been
lost on the first night.
Andrew Mack and his co., from America,
introduced themselves to Australia at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, last Saturday, in a new
form of somewhat Irish drama, preparatory to a
revival of quite Irish ditto.
The minstrel Mack warbles in sweet falset-to
Warm ballads by tender Tom Moore.
Love’s young dream hasn’t aged since the ould long ago—
Acushia, mavourneen, asthore !
Touch Tara’s harp gently, and fill up the bowl
With Heaven’s own Irish potheen,
And dhrink to the bard who sang songs for his sowl
Which are keeping his memory green.
Shure, the “ Last Rose of Summer ” will never decay
Till Erin’s last singer be dead,
And the Macks whose cognomens are spelt with a “ K ”
All their national petals have shed,
Then the Vale of Avoca will cease to rejoice
In the children she formerly bore ;
But the Mack of the present is training his voice
Round a drama entitled “ Tom Moore.”
~* * * #
“Tom Moore,” by the way, professes to
be “founded on certain romantic happenings in
the life of Ireland’s favorite poet.” It is certainly
loaded with anachronisms and audacious fables
concerning Thomas’s career. The stage story
depicts him as a stranger in London, getting
from the Prince Regent the appointment of Poet
Laureate (which never happened to him), whilst
the Government billet at Bermuda (which he
accepted) is given to his fictitious father-in-law
elect. Eat Prince George did not begin to be
Regent until his friendship with Moore had
staled off : the poet was 30 years of age before
he got married, and his contract to write “Lalla
Rookh ” was made long afterwards. Notliing
happened to him in life as it happens in the
drama, nevertheless a few distorted facts carefully
misplaced give the cheerful 4-act fiction a sufficient
claim to its title. “Tom Moore” is an attractive
name for a play, anyhow, and Andrew Mack in
the name part is a bright, breezy comedian, with
a sympathetic singing-voice—a falsetto robusto—
which comes into action at happy moments. Eor
instance, the plump, struggling young poet,
clothed like a dandy in a garret, melts the
Irish heart of his landlady, Mrs. Malone, by
singing one of his future middle-aged ballads
what time she is dunning him for payment of the
rint. The sentimental effect is interesting, al-
though bogus, and it takes a humorous turn when
the woman recovers her native presence of mind
and returns to the hard realities of rint. Several
other unreal situations are saved by an unex-
pected touch of humor, or a ballad, or both. The
first act is a farcical scene of a schoolroom in
Ireland, where the kiddies sing choruses for Mister
Moore, and levy blackmail op him when he wants
to kiss the lady teacher. The other three acts are
balladrama of a lighter, brighter, and more
reasonable kind than Van Biene’s ’cellodrama.
Also, each act has a “snap” in its tail, like a
rattlesnake.
* » * *
Andrew Mack, in large type, heads the
list of performers. Among the members of the
co. who appear in subordinate type the one
striking success is Miss Berlem, playing landlady
Malone. W. J. Townshend fills the bill as the
lordly villain, whereas Miss Josephine Lovett, as
the hero’s Irish sweetheart, is rather tame in her
style at first, and broadly American in her accent
later on. The part of a cockney servant is the
author’s mistake, rather than the actor’s, but the
Heir Apparent George the Third is a clever pic-
ture character, performed by a tremendously
important person who presents an embodiment of
all the Georges, and has much of the majesty of
our own Harry Rickards. Generally speaking,
the co. is satisfactory, but not so tremendously
important as the gentleman with the royal stage
blood coursing through his veins.
** * *
Miss Tittell Brune returns to the Princess’s
on Saturday to undertake several big things,
beginning with “Theodora.” Sardou’s tragedy
will be staged for all it is worth, the advt, .says,
and the ability of Miss Brune will shine in the
foreground most of the time. The name part
gives her a great opportunity.
*** * k
At the Opera House the reign of Little
Tich will extend over Easter week, seemingly.
Melbourne has now seen the exceptional legs and
cheery humor of the little comedian in about seven
different “turns,” and has ceased to draw any
comparisons between them. He is funny in every-
thing—simply ridiculous, and consistently droll)
** * *
The Athenseum was well filled on Satur-
day night, when the Avalon-Collard Company
showed its paces in three short canters, described
respectively as “farcical duologue,” “musical
comedietta,” and “farcical romantic operetta.”
Also Roland Henry contributed a musical sketch,
somewhat in the line but not quite up to the
standard of the late Mel B. Spurr. On first night
Avalon Collard bulked large in the bill and
showed himself a resourceful actor, an agreeable
singer, and an artist in facial expression. Masie
Riversdale proved a serviceable second, and
Roland Henry, of the “musical sketch” already
alluded to, came out strong as an old French land-
lord in the operetta. Weak points in the combina-
tion were an amateurish couple of young things, the
lady, a local warbler, annexed at the last minute
owing to the sudden indisposition of Olive Mer-
ton. Otherwise, a certain tendency to gloom that
threatened to Shadow the proceedings at times on
opening night, Would soon yield to the cheering
influence of more light in the hall, merrier between-
time music than present one-piano power, and
something less crude in the way of stage-dancing.
** * *
Bland Holt and his co. are returning to the
Royal on Saturday. During their 12 months of
absence—Bland is a man who does everything in a
large way; his shortest term of absence is a year—
the sacred light of melodrama has diffused a lurid
Andersonian light. Melbourne will be glad of a
change in the tone of the illumination, and par-
ticularly pleased to greet the company again in a
Drury Lane drama. “ The Best of Friends,” by
Cecil Raleigh, has not previously been staged at
the Royal.
** * *
Good Friday concerts are promised in all
directions. The Philharmonic Society has the
Town Hall for “Mors et Vita,” and something
sacredly musical is due at the Royal, the Opera
House, the Exhibition Building, and sundry other
places on the night of the annual bun-struggle.
Prince’s Court is preparing a grand Easter burst,
and the dramas of Sandford’s American Players
are coming and going at the Bijou with steady
pertinacity.
“ L’Aiglon ” has been accepted with
rapture at Adelaide Royal, in spite of its crowded
characters that the audience cannot really dis-
tinguish, and its insistent historical references
designed so obviously to appeal to a Parisian
gallery. Miss Tittell Brune has been treated to
three and four calls per act, and a crowd outside
afterwards to see her depart,' and similar en-
thusiasms, quite foreign to Adelaide’s usual calm.
In emotional scenes she is quite convincingly
intense; when humorous, she is quite uninten-
tionally American. At present she is playing
J uliet.
The Wild Cat Column.
N.S.W. Government has decided to build four
more unproductive railway lines. The estimated loss on
three of them is £11,130, and the fourth is likely to be the
worst sink of the lot. The excuse is that the Govt, has a
large quantity of railway material, bought with borrowed
money, and that it will have to go on paying Cohen £6OOO
a year even if the stuff isn’t used. Carruthers said he
wasn’t going into debt for unprofitable undertakings;
now he decides to go into it on the ground that somebody
else had got some of the way into it already. It’s the
sort of excuse that a man would make for cutting off two
fingers because he had one cut off some time ago. Or for
taking up a law-case, for which he was dead sure not to
be paid, on the ground that he had bought a law-book
which he otherwise wouldn’t have any use for.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
the United States :
Income Total Added
Less Sums Claims. Expenses. Out- to
Written off. goings. Funds.
£> £> £/ £/ Jo
1896.. 9,535,204 4,609,0861,680,621 6,289,7073,245,497
1897.. 10,363,675 4,455,378 1,778,534 6,233,912 4,129,763
1898.. 11,301,446 4,987,464 1,819,464 6,806,928 4,494,518
1899.. 11,742,265 5,106,596 2,173,613 7,280,209 4,462,056
1900.. 12,639,530 6,403,717 2,145,201 7,548,918 5,090,612
1901.. 13,607,221 6,800,186 2,324,663 8,124,849 5,482,372
1902.. 14,438,370 6,054,346 2,609,330 8,663,676 6,774,694
1903.. 14,656,981 7,125,791 2,975,574 10,101,365 4,555,616
1904.. 17,302,203 7,583,435 3,052,345 10,635,780 6,666,423
This vast organisation shows for the past year dizzier
figures than ever. The one year’s income is more than
four times greater than the total funds of any Australian
office with one exception ; and the policy of a country
which can produce a society of that size, in the face of
keen competition, is surely a pretty strong “ tip ” to any
other young country. The total funds now amount to
£84,546,275 ; and the surplus, after actuarial valuation of
the policy liabilities at rates varying from 4 to 3 per
cent., amounts to £16,582,072. This latter huge amount,
which is in the nature of a reserve fund, and is the result
of a conservative policy in the matter of bonus distribu-
tions; ought to be more than ample to provide for the
worst sort of slump that ever struck a modern country ;
and, so far from any slump being in view, the past year’s
accounts show a gain in valuation of assets (included as
income) of £986,487. Under the American law assets
have to be valued every year, and the valuation sworn to,
so that the balance-sheet may present a true view of the
society’s affairs ; so it becomes impossible for an office to
write up its assets 50 per cent, in order to show a decent
result, as is possible in Australia, where there is in most
States practically no insurance law, and where any wild-
cat may collect the public’s premiums.
This variation in the value of assets is largely
responsible for the unevenness of the following figures
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income
1897 ..£l7 33 percent.
1898 .. 16 2 0 „ „
1899 .. 18 10 3 „ „
1900 ... 16 19 5 „ „
1901 ..£l7 1 8 per cent.
1902 .. 18 1 5 „ „
1903 .. 20 6 0 „ „
1904 .. 17 12 10 „ „
Last year, for instance, there was a gain in valuations of
£986,487, which was included as income ; the previous
year, there was a shrinkage of £618,229, which had to
come off the income. Taking the expenses on the basis
of actual receipts and of premiums alone, these results
show up
Per cent of Per cent, of
Receipts. Premiums.
* 1902 .. £lB 9 6 £23 2 7
1903 .. 19 9 7 24 7 1
1904 .. 18 14 2 23 10 8
On any basis, the figures for the year are better than
those for 1903 ; but they are high compared with Austra-
lian figures. It costs a lot of money to write the
American societies’ enormous additions to business.
More than that, the pay of the insurance man (as of most
other men) is high under American organisation.
As to the important matter of earnings :
Interest Earned on Mean Funds.
1900 .. £4 6 0 per cent.
1901 .. 4 111 ~
1902 .. 4 1 11
1903 .. £3 19 10 per cent.
1904 ..424 „
The assets include £46,923,846 of “United States stocks,
and stocks created under the laws of the State of New
York, municipal and other marketable securities ” ; and
naturally during a slump, such as there was in 1903, the
society was able to buy at a price which would show a
better return than would be possible in a year following
purchases at boom prices. This no doubt accounts for
the difference between the returns for 1903 and 1904. The
1904 rate is rather below the Australian average. This
seems to be due largely to the comparatively small
amount lent on mortgage and policies, and the very con-
siderable amount in premises, which are built as much
for advertisement as investment. The total funds of
Australian offices (1903) were £32,208,447, of which 64 per
cent, was out in loans on mortgages and policies, while
the total funds of the Equitable (1904) were £84,546,275,
of which only 26 per cent, was out in those securities
which, in Australia, give, on the whole, the highest return.
The Equitable has 27 directors, and as the
result of a New York movement it was decided that 14
of them should in future be elected by the policy holders ;
but one of the stockholders is now questioning the
legality of it. All the row can’t be on account of what
the stockholders make out of their stock. They have
only £20,550 in the business, and their div. is limited to
7 per cent., and under the charter they have absolutely
no claim on any part of the surplus, as in the case in
some proprietary offices. But people who have control of
£80,000,000, of money for investment have a huge power;
and that is apparently what the trouble is over.
* * * *
Pekkins and Cos., Ltd., Queensland brewers,
etc. :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Div. Duty. Reserves, serves.
1894 ..£12,086 5 p.c. = £3,062 £9,024 £9,024
1895 .. 10,035 10 „ „ 6,125 3,910 12,934
1896 .. 11,784 10 „ „ 6,125 5,659 18,593
1897 .. 12,945 10 „ „ 6,125 6,820 25,413
1898 .. 15,067 13J „ „ 8,167 6,900 32,313
1899 .. 19,456 13£ „ „ 8,167 11,289 43,602
1900 .. 24,404 15 5-6 „ 9,698 14,706 58,308
1901 .. 26,165 16§ „ ~ 10,208 15,957 74,265
1902 .. 28,496 18J „ „ 11,229 17,267 91,532
1903 .. 26,565 23| „ „ 14,292 12,273 103,805
1904 .. 23,435 25 „ „ 15,313 8,122 111,927
1905 .. 26,236 36 „ „ 21,000 5,236 117,163
Twelve months ago the co. showed paid capital, £58,333,
and reserves, £111,927 ; these together with the year’s
profits would total £196,496. Now, by capitalising por-
tion of the undivided profit, it shows:—
Capital £IOO,OOO
Reserve Fund .. 87,274
Dividend Equalisation Reserve .. 2,236
Dividends Paid .. .. .. 21,000
Unappropriated Profit .. ... 85,986
Total £196,490
In the table at the head of this the rate of div. for the
past year is calculated on the capital actually paid


đfh
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE. —Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INDENTS Dog-Spikes to Compound Locomotives—i.e., EVERYTHING.
£3T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking. 'S3.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Ppop. Ltd., 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstein and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches—so 4 Little Oollins-st., Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
pHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
IW~ Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane,
Auckland, Wellington, Cunedin, Christchurch.
(£68,333). The progress of this remarkably prosperous
co. is further shown hereunder
1896. 1903. 1904. 1905.
Freeholds Plant &c. .. £41,150 £94,463 £94,189 £94,620
Stocks ’ 18 235 42.327 38,958- 36.732
loat Customers; &c... 24,484 46,521 59,854 60,004
Cash Ralances .. 5,212 7,6(2 /,612 10,451
Tra e Cre itors .' .. 9 093 20,679 21,165 14,061
Net Sales •• 18 946 41,608 34,854 41,120
General Expenses .. 6,277 10,671 10 255 13,256
Depreciation .. •• 886 4,371 1,164 1,628
“Net saVi” are profits before charging-general expenses
and depreciation, former including office expenses, dis-
counts, bad debts, &c. The growth of _ loans,
customers’ balances, &c.,” is noticeable; this is where
the liability to bad debts comes in. Apparently the only
amounts written off for depreciation are those shown , if
so they seem very small indeed. The cash balances
shown are before payment of the annual dividend.
• * * *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne):
Added te Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Sept.,'lß9B.. £4OBB 3 p.c.=£2250 £IB3B £5,976
Mar., 1899.. 4315 3 ~ „ 2250 2065 5,041
Sept., 1899.. 4624 3,, ~ 2250 2374 10,416
Mar., 1900.. 5843 4 „ ~ 3000 2843 13,258
Sept., 1900.. 5863 4 ~ „ 3000 2863 16,121
Mar., 1901.. 6488 5 ~ ~ 3750 2738 18,859
Sept., 1901.. 6700 6 „ „ 3750 2950 21,809
Mar., 1902.. 7061 5 „ ~ 3750 3311 25,120
Sept., 1902.. 7095 5 „ ~ 3750 3345 28,465
Mar., 1903.. 7380 6 „ ~ 3750 3630 32,095
Sept., 1903.. 6819 6 „ ~ 4500 2319 34,414
Mar., 1904.. 7556 6 „ ~ 4500 3056 37,470
Sept., 1904.. 7333 6 „ ~ 4500 2833 40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8335 6 ~ ~ 4500 3835 44,138
The most prosperous half-year since the troubles which
followed the bad old days. Profit p.c. of capital (£150,000)
and reserves has moved as follows :
Sept., 1900 .. £7 6 7 p.c. Mar., 1903 ..£8 5 5 p.c.
Mar., 1901 .. 716 8 „ Sept., 1903 .. 7 9 9 „
Sept., 1901 .. 718 9 „ Mar., 1904 .. 8 311 „
Mar., 1902 .. 8 45 „ Sept., 1904 .. 716 6 „
Sept., 1902 .. 8 2 1 „ Mar., 1905 .. 815 2 „
Yet every time a number of gentlemen, who occasionally
wear silk-hats and should know better, meet, they say
that the country is going to the dogs. The dogs seems to
be an excellent place for bank profits, or these gentlemen
are mistaking the direction in which the country is
moving. As to the Royal, its progress is further illu-
strated hereunder
Mar.,’o4. Mar.,’os. Increases.
Deposits .. ... .. £740,857 £889,689 £148,832
All Liquid Assets.. .. 335,431 502,373 166,942
Premises .. .. .. 54,776 55,000 224
Advances, etc 586,785 554,855 31,930
Bills in Circulation .. 57,317 37,333 19,984
Notes in circulation .. 8,940 8,161 779
The figures don’t seem to point to larger earnings—they
show increased deposits, both interest-bearing and non-
interest-bearing, and reduced advances —and yet the earn-
ings have been larger. But, in spite of the large increase
of liquid assets, the balance of non-productive coin and
bullion has shrunk from £242,854 to £224,038, so that a
larger amount has been earning money in public stocks
and in exchange business. This, no doubt, accounts for
the improved profits even in the face of the unfavorable
aggregate figures quoted. The div. appropriated only 54
per cent, of the profits, allowing 46 per cent, to go to re-
serves—an excellent feature. And all liquid assets, in-
cluding the heavy amount of bills, &c., in transit, repre-
sent a very solid 54 per cent, of all liabilities to the
public, so that the bank’s possible earning power with the
money available isn’t yet exhausted.
•*■*•»*
British B.H. has decided to tap the far end of its
northern block. It has the largest lode area of any of the
B.H. co.’s except the B.H. Prop., but so far it has done
practically nothing with the northern part. About mid-
way in its property the big B.H. outcrop suddenly
breaks, and twists round into the Junction, in the same
way as it twists in Block 10, at the other end of the line.
With few surface indications of promise, the northern
block has therefore been mostly left alone ; but the dia-
mond drill, and the workings up to the boundary in
the Junction North, have proved ore out that way, and
Marsh’s shaft, which was begun in the early days of the
mine and then left, is to be sunk to reach it. There may
be some significance in the fact that the most valuable
part of the Broken Hill lode has been Block 11, of the
B.H. Prop., just where there was such another break in
the outcrop as occurs between the British and the Junc-
tion ; the latter has had some remarkably rich ore, and
■one or other of these two is liable to turn out more of it.
That is what niakes the Junction stock a good gamble.
But at present prices it is nothing else.
* * * «
Adjustment of Junction North mill is getting
on very well, and recovery of 76 per cent, of lead, with an
equally satisfactory percentag-e of silver, was made last
week. The people who have been backing the machine
seem to have much the better chance of coming out on
top, even though numerous difficulties yet remain to be
overcome.
* * « •
The B.H. Prop, has decided to go ahead with
its zinc smelting works, building them at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), and using the old works of the Wallaroo Copper
Cos. as a basis. Three sites were considered —Port Pirie
(S. A.), where the lead furnaces are; Befiambi (N.S. W.),
where the coke-ovens are ; and Newcastle ; and it was
decided to go where large quantities of small coal are
available. No new processes are to be used —just those
with which, near by, the Sulphide Corporation has for
several years struggled with no great amount of success.
Fortunately the co. has an unusually strong spelter
market to begin on.
* • « a
B.H. Junction is doing even more poorly than
had been expected. It did n’t have much ore when it re-
started its mill lately, and even that little is found to be
poorer and more refractory than had been estimated.
* * * *
Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.), which hasn’t had any
burden to struggle with for the past few .years, except
that of being the top gold-producer of the State, is just
on the edge of a couple of unpleasant conundrums. Not-
withstanding continued alterations to plant, sulphide ores
from lower levels persistently refuse to satisfactorily give
up their gold. Co.’s expert’s visit to Westralia may solve
the riddle, but at best there’s likely to be a good deal of
expense attached to the solution.. Added to this there is
a sudden dip in the reef at the southern end, and follow-
ing it is becoming an expensive job ; consequently pro-
specting shafts are being sunk to catch the reef
in the crosscuts. While this is going on the leases
held by Bakewell, of Sydney, are likely to get
a fair probing. It is stated that engineer Gregory,
who runs the show for Bakewell, intends diamond-
drilling to 800 ft., both vertical and diagonally, and thus
prove the face of their area. Boring will bring them to
the vicinity of Boppy South property, where there is a
big gold-bearing reef exposure, claimed to be the Mt.
Boppy continuation ; therefore it is probable that later
on, when a lot of cash has dropped through the bore-
holes into the sandstone country, floppy South will com-
mand more respect.
* * # •
Queen Bee’s (Cobar) output for month, 40 tons.
More was expected, but furnace No. 3 got into blast late,
and didn’t help much. Now, when the prospect of a
larger return looked assured, the stacks have caved in,
and instead of April results reaching 50 tons, there will
be a further fall. Repairs don’t, however, look serious,
as in lieu of original three stacks, manage-
ment now contemplates erecting a single large one,
and connecting all these furnaces with this by culverts or
horizontal flues. In view of starting No. 4 reverb., en-
larging tank, and other improvements which called for
• cash, directors wisely withheld April div. May will prob-
ably get things straightened out, and regular dividends
should about start from that point.
* * * *
Recent rains gave Cobar all the water it has
holding room for, and Broken Hill a 2£ years’ supply.
Even when Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) does look
up a bit and the market takes a rise, the machinery
(battery) has a provoking' habit of getting- out of order,
or something else always seems to go wrong.
* * * *
New Hillgrove Proprietary scrip has taken a
rise ; about time it did. It is to be hoped the management
is guarding against further “ bursts ” of rock ; if not, Nos.
8 and 9 levels will come off badly. Shareholders in the
know are said to be unloading. Cos. has now secured the
Garibaldi leases, and there is an uneasy feeling that wages
will be reduced all round, and miners can accept same or
go. There is even talk among the men that this J. Bull
conceriymay look for Chinese miners ; plenty could begot
from Tingha for 7s. a day. But there isn’t any solid
foundation so far for these feats.
» * * •
White Star, Donnelly’s Creek, Gippsland (Vic.),
is a show that might have a future, if the board would
face the music. Upper stopes off upper tunnels yielded a
bunch of good ore ; but, underneath, grade fell, and
co. called in R. A. Moon, geologist, to advise. His
scheme of work has been in hand, but calls are mere
dribbles, and co. pokes on in an unbusiness-like way.
There is a big reef on the opposite side of, the creek that
needs testing. Lack of funds, however, checks every-
thing, and so a fair prospecting- show languishes. Good
specimen stone is met with every now and again in the
main workings ; this encourages effort, but yields don’t
average up. A little heroism in the matter of a solid call
or two ought soon to tell whether the venture needs the
happy dispatch or has vitals.
The “water baby” of the Berry lead has been
the Spring Hill Leads, but manager Browne now has the
inflow well under control. In addition, workings have
got out of the hydro-thermal into settled country.
Browne’s task would be lightened if the Berry United,
next door, were made to hurry up to reach the wash,
but Bewick-Moreing’s men seem to have enough work in
un watering Moolort, without taking on another
small sea at the other end of the lead with
much energy. Spring Hill Leads’ tribute from the
Berry Extended works out a very fine thing for the
Extended. It is a good sprat to keep call-payers toge-
ther. The surprise is the eastern run of ground. This
looks as if it might be a continuation of that found by
Eisher, which was cut-out by the hydro-thermal. If so,
it is so much to the good, apart from the 2500 ft. of main
lead ahead of where good prospects have just been got
by boring from the main under-level. Spring Hill Leads
and West Berry Consols have been the two wasters of the
Berry lead, and it would be odd if their luck was to
change when probably half the old shareholders have
passed out.
• * • •
Catherine Reef United, Bendigo, has 1500 ft. on
the north end of the New Ohum line. Not long since it
cut a big formation at 2200 ft., but gold was poor until the
lava junctioned with a slide. Then rich gold came in,
bringing up memories of the old days of the two Catherine
co.’s, Williams United and York and Durham. As Bendigo
is very much the fashion, there was a boost in the shares.
But there was an absence of old-time caution which
used to impel shrewd souls to sell, on gold making on a
slide. There is no gainsaying that a big formation has
been developed, and that some rich specimens have been
shown ; still, there isn’t anything like the worth of the
shares in divs. in sight, and there is the risk that the gold
may fade out away from the fault. Cos. has paid over
£70,000 in divs., and Ellenborough, next door, nearly the
same amount.
* * • •
South British, Maldon, is the successor to the
New Parkin’s Reef Cos., which spent £40,000 in trying to
pick up a payable shoot of gold in the continuation of
Parkin’s reef beyond Oswald’s North British mine. Pre-
sent co. is doing its best to build up another big expendi-
ture ;so far with equally bad luck. Parkin’s reef for
many a long day has been nothing but a big body of 2dwt.
dirt. Co.’s hope is to pick up gold at the junction of the
big quartz spurs with the reef, and, judging by Oswald’s,
it need not despair altogether. • • •
Chiltern Valley, Chiltern (Vic.), has got back the
gold lease it sold to the Wallace-Chiltern Cos. Price, 2000
shares in anew issue. It also takes over plant and work-
ings that cost £32,730 ; so that, from its standpoint, it
has not made a bad-bargain. The area of the claim is
about 700 acres, and by acquiring it the Chiltern Valle/
becomes one of the biggest alluvial mines in the State;
just as it is now one of the best. What will be done will
probably be to drive across the gutter to the western reef,
which was never reached. Chiltern Valley has paid over
£200,000 in divs., or nearly £1 per oz. won. A block of
its shares are held at cheap figures in Adelaide.
* * # *
Papuan Brilliant and Victory, Charters Towers
(Q.j, for the half year, crushed 1454 tons for 701 oz. Con-
centrates and residues brought £2456 ; average, £3 ss. 6d.
a ton. Directors report the financial position improving,
The term commenced with a credit of £653. One dividend
of 3d. and £6O duty, equal to £l2@o, has been paid. The
credit now stands at £627. The improvement takes some
finding.
° * * * *
Phoebe (Charters Towers), for fortnight, 230
tons for 3450 z. Market is easing, on account of the
reef in Kelly’s showing no improvement with driving,
delay in declaring a dividend, and a rumor that the reef
is pinching.
Brilliant Extended, 2100 tons for 9680 z. ; con-
centrates estimated to contain 700 oz. Mill only runs half
time. The co, is handicapped with a time-payment mill
and cyanide works—£2s,ooo, bearing 5 per cent, interest,
spread over 20 half-yearly instalments of £1250 each. Plant
is not up-to-date or new. Everything is carted in drays—
stone from the mine and residues from the pits to the
drying grounds at the cyanide works. No wonder it costs
17s. 6d. a ton to treat. Cyanide is a whale on iron-work,
and will easily have the works shifted to the scrap-heap
before they are paid for. Mill, engine and boilers are equal
to about 20-cockroach power. Shareholders should have
erected an up-to-date battery on the mine ; they have the
site, but they also have that tired feeling. The trans-
action was Towers-like. Cost of working for last half-
year was £2 15s. 9d. Stated that the mill can
be paid for out of reduced crushing and cya-
niding costs. There certainly ought to be a margin.
Development work in the deep ground, at the rate of
300 feet a month, is opening up small bodies of rather
poor ore. The hope of the mine is No. 3 underlie (2300
vertical), but it is disheartening so far. Extended is one
of the precious few mines on the Towers with a scientific
manager, yet mine reports are exactly the same as Bill
the Tributor’s—“ fair quality,” “good stone,” “showing
mineral,” and so on. Will Mr. M‘Leod break new ground
and give an estimate of the tonnage of stone in sight,
and its value by assay? Then the public may invest and
not gamble. Surely the reserves of stone will bear
inspection on paper. # #
Customary with Towers mining co.’s to declare
a dividend prior to the half-yearly meeting, earned
or not. The latest are Queen Central and Papuan.
Blue Peter P.C. meeting will be on in May. There should
be a trifle in this stock. i
• * * *
Another parcel of specimen stone is iff Char-
ters Towers from Carrington’s P. C. Show is being stripped
of its rich stone, and the boom has been helped on. Shares
have been a good gamble, going from 2s. to 7s. in a week.
As an investment It is madness ; the ground has not been
tested. The deepest shaft on the line is hardly deeper
than a grave. Gold is there right enough, but nobody
knows which load will be the last.
* * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, is to re-form,
in 120,000 £1 shares, paid to 15s. John M'Donald, a
London director,' is fixing up the business. He says the
position since shutting down is unchanged, excepting
that they are £BOO worse off. A short while ago Austra-
lian holders sent proxies for 60,000 shares, requesting
head office to be shifted to Charters Towers. English
office could only muster 7302 ; so no meeting was held.
Directors now agree to a reduction from £SOO to £305 in
their fees, and office rent to £360. This is a benevolent
act for a co. that has spent about £IOO,OOO, and: is now
far in debt. The work could be done on the field for
£4OO, and give better satisfaction. Shareholders promise
J. Bull a shower of forfeits if they don’t get their way.
Mine is in the hands of tributors.
* * # *
A N.Q. resurrection about which the public
doesn’t hear much is Mt. Molloy, on the coastal range
between Pt. Douglas and Biboora. For 15 years it has
been workedspasmodically, but lately it has fallen into the
hands of a mostly-Melb. syndicate which has got to work
in a bettet way, and now has a smelting plant in blast..
The running isn’t yet free from difficulties, partly due
to the excessively wet weather, which stuck up the
0.K., in the. same country, altogether. The Molloy has
sent away 1000 tons of ore, said to have averaged 33 per
cent, copper ; and it has a big body to work on, though,
in view of heavy costs of cartage, &c., it wasn’t a fair
sample of the whole that was shipped.
* * • *
Westralia’s output for the first quarter of this
year Was 45Q00z. ahead of last year’s. In the first two
months there was a ..deficit of 19,5000 z. ; but this was
more than wiped out in March, owing to a lucky accident.
Last year several March consignments missed the escort,
with the result that the month’s figures were very'Small;
so this year’s tOwer above them. But while the figures
for last April were very big, those for this April will be
very ordinary.
• * * *
Fair Play, Kalgoorlie, about half-a-mile north-
east of Hidden Secret, is developing wonderfully. About
200 tons of ore have been treated for an average of 2oz.
While driving south at 85ft., very rich ore has been met,
assays averaging about 15oz. A test parcel has been
sent to Fremantle smelters. Lode is sft. wide, and
carries very little visible gold, and a few years ago would
have been passed as worthless. Lease consists of 16
acres, and waS long bottled up by a Bull co.
* * # *
After all, Ralph Nichols is not to return to
Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, notwithstanding the dramatic
meeting in London, at which he was rehabilitated. A
cable has been received by G. C. Klug- saying that he has
been appointed permanent general manager in place of
Nichols. Klug is quite a young man, the son of an old
Broken Hill manager ; after serving for some years
with the B.H. Prop., he was appointed manager of Fre-
mantle Smelting 00. He is more metallurgist than
miner, but has liis head w’ell screwed on.
• * * •
Great Fingall Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.),
of which Bulletin expressed a poor opinion on its flota-
tion, a year ago, has closed down for want of funds. 00.
was supposed to start with a working capital of £SOOO,
and, according to prospectus, was to be a second Great
Fingall Consols. Like all mines controlled from Perth,
the thing was muddled. The poppet-legs could not stand
the strain of the winding engine, which pulled them over.
Months ago a w ide and rich reef was alleged to have been
cut, but nothing has been heard of it since.
■* * * »
Princess Royal Central* Norseman (W. A.), after
sinking main shaft to 974 ft., has commenced opening up
a level at 950 ft. Where cut in shaft at ,940 ft., reef was
poor, but is expected to improve. Up to now, only three
shafts have been sunk in W.A. to cut lodes at depths—
Ivanhoe South Extended, Boulder’s Hamilton shaft, and
Princess Central. None of them has got anything payable
so far. Such enterprise deserves better reward, w'hich
may come in this case.
• « • *
Golden Pole Central, Davyliurst (W.A.),' should
be left severely alone, except as a gamble. Property is
about half-a-mile south of Golden Pole. The prospectus
contains a report by W. H. Collins, late of Croesus Pro-
prietary and Waihi, but it is chiefly occupied in describ-
ing the Golden Pole and Eileeq mines. Not a word is
said regarding any development work having been done,
and the report, so far as proposed co. is concerned, is
valueless.
* » * *
Hannan’s Reward North* Kalgoorlie, once owned
by an Adelaide co., is being equipped with a five-head
mill. There is a lode 25ft. wide, worth about Bdwt. This
is traversed by numerous quartz veins, and for nearly
four years present owners have kept going by picking out
these small veins and having them treated, the value
ranging from 3oz. to 4oz. With a plant on the spot the
whole 25ft. will be mined and treated at a good profit.
This mine may yet prove a big thing. /
* • * •
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is making good progress
with its new treatment plant, and should resume crush-
ing within a month. Much development work has been
done since the old plant closed down, and mine is in a
better position for maintaining returns than ever before.
Morty shaft, to open up the Perseverance lode, has been
carried down from 300 to over 900 ft. When Isles was in
charge no work was done on this reef below the oxidised
zone, as he reckoned the sulphide zone was no good ; but
it has proved otherwise. The two lodes, are nearly 600 ft.
apart, and diverge as they trend north, and can’t econo-
mically be worked from one shaft.
* * * *
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie, is looking well, and is at
present the soundest mine on the Golden Mile. Every,
thing on property is up to date, and the plant is running
most satisfactorily. Mine is, being fully developed at
1200 ft.., and the various lodes maintain their size and
values at that depth. The April di v. of 9s. per share, or
£90,000, is the biggest quarterly div. so far declared by
co., but can’t be maintained, as quarterly profits only tot
up about £70,000.
* * * *
North White Feather, Kanowna (W.A.),
although poor and broken where’reef was first cut at
514 ft., is improving in driving north and south, and is
sft. wide, and worth 22dwt. This is a good development,
and may yet turn the co. into a div.-payer. Winzes from
40ft. show that-the good make of ore at that level continues
downwards. Manager Mills, who has been connected
with property since 1895, when it was known as Lily
Australis, has resigned, on taking over the northern
blocks, once known as the Mackenzie, on tribute. Mills
has long had an idea there was something good on these
leases, and has vainly urged directors to work them. He
then offered to resign managership if they would give him
the mine on royalty. This is the sort of enterprise that
should succeed.
* * * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, has had to pay ex-
manager Gleisberg £1145 in lieu of notice. Good ore has
been cut on Oroya shoot 10ft. below No. 10 level, and co.
mav yet have a big run of rich ore. Lode is 12ft. wide,
and worth 44dwt. ; but, until development has pro-
gressed, it is useless to talk.
* * * *
Louis Beyers, discoverer, and, in company with
the late Holterman, developer of Hill End, has benefited
bv the death of a Sydney solicitor, who was his man of
business in the good days, to the extent of £15,000.
Beyers was discovered working a show near Edjudina
(W.A.), apd knew nothing of his fresh stroke of luck. . In
>the palmy days of Hill End, Loo Beyers was the friend of
every man, and when he took his seat on the Bench, his
brain was busy reckoning how he could impose adequate
fines and at the same time pay them all. Once he sen-
tenced adrunk and disorderly : “Now look here, Bill—l
mean prisoner at de bar, I’fine you ten bob or 48 hours ;
and ten times as much I would fine you—if I had de
money on me.” ~ >
Privy Council has dismissed, with costs,
Melbourne Tramway Co.’s appeal against Vic. Full
Court’s decision that it was necessary for the co. to
take out a hackney-carriage license for every tram-car
used in Melbourne' city. Melbourne City Council now
prepares to gather in a large new revenue from the co.
Stated in the initial Melbourne proceedings that, should
the imposition of the license be upheld as legal, the cost
to the co. would run to between £2OOO and £3OOO a year.
* * * •
Dalgety’s are “in possession” at the Dapto
(N.S.W.) smelting works, and all hands were finally sacked
last week. Now somebody “ with large mining interests ”
writes to the S.M. Herald calling upon the Government
to put up State smelting works. Good old anti-Socialists!
They always call upon the State to do things that won’t
pay themselves ; then they point to the loss, and show
what a muddler the State is.
* * • *
Six weeks hence between the coastal ranges and
the Never-Never there will be about 60,000,000 tons of
grass and herbage provided against the next" drought!
How much of it will be put away in stacks or silos?
*** . *
Some of the engineers and others who were
thrown out of work when the Phoenix Foundry closed
down have been putting in their time at fo.ssickingaround
the gullies near Ballarat. One party from the foundry
got enough gold to pay them at the rate of £4 a week
each man for three weeks, which reminds one of the old
adage about the fascination of fossicking. It’s to be
hoped that none of the expert foundrymen will get per-
manently converted into findrymen.
This paragraph is only of interest to Mine
Managers and directors who are desirous of cutting down
working expenses, without sacrificing efficiency. Most
mines use a considerable quantity of rubber goods per
annum, which is imported in most cases, and in many
instances partly perished before, put in use, the con-
sequence being frequent replacements. If managers
will use Dunlop rubber belting, packings, gaskets, suction,
air and steam hose, they can effect a considerable saving,
as these goods are freshly made of the best grade rubber,
arid are free from perish. The Dunlop Tyre Cos., who
have depots in every State, will be pleased to forward the
reader a sample of any class of rubber goods he may
require, together with rubber catalogue and price list.
Tenders submitted for rubber supplies.*
Sulphides need to be efficiently concentrated to
pay, and the Card Concentrator, with its auxiliary
attachment, is the nearest thing to perfection. Air com-
pressing is usually costly, but with Rand Compressors is a
cinch. See bottom of back cover. N. Guthridge, Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.*
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Cos., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
The Bankers’ Magazine (London) September
1904, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited: —“ At theclose of 1875 its funds amounted
to £2,864, and twenty-eight years thereafter on December
31, 1903, we find them increased a hundred-fold to
£2,814,796. Roughly speaking, every year on the average,
has seen £IOO,OOO added to the funds.’'*
* * * #
The Wilfley Concentrator has now reached a
very exalted position in the concentration industry. It
had long been recognised that older types of concentrators
were unsatisfactory in many respects, being small in
capacity, intricate in construction, costly in maintenance
difficult of adjustment and required constant supervision ;
but the “ Wilfley,” while retaining all advantages that
may have been possessed by its predecessors, was
superior to them in the following important respects:
It will handle several times more material than any belt
concentrator made, without exception. It will save a
higher percentage of the values than any other table, and
will catch any float gold, amalgam, of quicksilver which
may escape from the amalgamating plates. Id will make
cleaner and more valuable concentrates, thus saving use-
less expense for transportation of valueless material, and
also reducing the smelter charges. It requires little or
no attention when once adjusted, and no expert is
required, either to adjust or run the machine. It
handles the pulp with less power and less floor space per
ton than any other concentrator. It has no expensive
belts to crack and wear out and no complicated machinery
to keep in repair. The Sole Agents and Manufacturers
for Australia are the Austral Otis Engineering Company,
Limited, South Melbourne.*
* * * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, arid may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discription of cast or wrought iron work.*
•* * * *
Oil Engines. —lnformation has just reached
us that the Government Award (Gold Medal) in this class,
at the present Capetown Exhibition, has been awarded to
the “ Hornsby ” Oil Engine. The success of this engine is
perhaps the most remarkable in engineering history.
There is no engineering speciality which can claim, as
the “ Hornsby ” oil engine does, to have obtained every
highest award in the world —viz., England, America,
Australian, France and Russia, &e. —and last year it
secured the British Government award, of £IOOO. It is
made’ in various types of fixed, portable, traction and
marine, and in the latter it is made in suitable sizes for
small pleasure craft, and in gradations of h.p. up to 500
b.h.p., as supplied to the British Navy. R. Hornsby and
Sons, Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.*
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favorerl by
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Cos.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
: mines, water works, and electric supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity,
there being now 68 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures speak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines.*^
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.* * *
Assay Balance, Ainsworth's No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200tb =0.005 milligramme =--l/13000th grain. Price £SO.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Cos., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manasrer.*
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
Last week a Waranga (Vic.) farmer, gazing
into the irrigation channel running through his
farm, discovered the relics of a particularly grue-
some murder. In a chaff-bag floating along he
found a man’s body, from which the legs had been
cut off, the stomach slashed open (to ensure sink-
ing), and the flesh of the face sliced off (to prevent
identification). The body had been in the water
about two months, and the murderer seems to
have done his work thoroughly, the only clue left
to the detectives being the chaff-bag and an old
shirt.
“Miles”: In regard to the Australian
passion for an obsolete gun, on one point, the
last, you are wrong. Although the British Army
is not yet entirely equipped with the new rifle,
the Australian Defence Department has received
from the end of 1904 up to date 5000 of the new
short Lee Enfields, and has not any more M.L.-E.
mark 1, on indent.
Many observers have noticed how men who
turn their brains to the best cash value always go
in for the same tipple-whisky. And D.C.L.
whisky at that': There must be a distinctive
quality in D.C.L. Because it has the same brand
as a collegiate degree the distiller, seemingly,
strives to make the whisky worthy of its lettering,
D.C.L. Educated men are attracted to it, and the
attraction never wanes.*


LT HATS
Gentleman’s Fine Grade Fur, Black Hard Felt
Hats, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 21/-.
fdfd
LATEST ENGLISH SHAPES.
In ordering hats, state size of hat
worn and number of inches round the
head, also chest measurement.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack Sts., Sydney.
TON
Trade M4rk
/ LL THE LATEST
IN PHOTO-MATERIALS,
ACCESSORIES
and NOVELTIES.
A GOOD IMPRESSION
IS OBTAINED WITH
HARRINGTON’S
CAMERAS.
The “VICTOR ” for 30/-
Is still the Camera Supreme, in fact is known as the most
popular Camera in Australasia. Over 7000 now in use in
the Commonwealth.
The “VICTOR” makes photos x
Will carry 12 plates or 24 films in
Magazine. It is
Neat, Compact, Light and SIMPLE TO OPERATE.
Fitted with latest 1905 Movements, and supplied complete
with Simple Instructions. Packed, and Post paid to any
address in N.S.W., 1/3 extra; other States, 2/2.
Plates and Films Developed, Enlargements Made, &c.
HARRINGTON
AND CO.,
LIMITED
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
few doors
from C.P.O.
93 Queen St*, Brisbane*
Society
CANADIAN
GUB
WHISKY.
Among a batch of adulterated-goods vendors
fined at the Paddington (N.S.W.) court, last
week, was a man who
pleaded guilty to sell-
ing “German saus-
age” containing 36|
grains of boric acid to
the lb. This elucidates
the mystery of the
long life of that hor-
ror. “Why is Ger-
man sausage like
sorrow ? ” asks some
one. “ Because it is
eternal,” is the an-
swer. By careful ob-
servation of any sub-
urban small-goods
shop, you may notice
German sausage hang-
ing weeks, months,
years before going into
con umption. There
is a tale of a German
sausage in a Hobart
shop, before which a
Chinaman’s dog
used to come and
weep ; the dog
had learned an-
cestor- worship
from his master.
Coincidences. Ac-
cording to Coghlan’s latest
.statistics (1903), the cost of law
administration in S.A. is exactly six-and-eight per
inhabitant.
* * * •»
The. pursuit of the weekly 3d. all over the
school premises is about the meanest and most
irritating of a N.S.W. State teacher’s duties. Also
the fees are a fruitful source of non-attendance of
poor children. If Billy Rags can’t come on Monday
and luesday, the remainder of the week isn’t con-
sidered to be worth the money, If Billy gets
free education, he is shunned by many of his
mates (this especially in the case of girls), and
thus a little crop of snobs is grown. The weekly
_ thrum looks small, but it rises high between
the children of the poor and enlightenment
A defence, which was certainly impudent,
and probably truthful, was set up by a man at the
Parramatta (N.S.W.) quarter sessions, last week.
He was convicted of breaking, entering and steal-
ing. He had been, he said, a cohentingenter, and
had done so much commandeering in South Africa that
the old habit returned to him after taking drink, and on
this occasion he really labored under the impression that
he was carrying out military orders.
« * * *
The Prince of Wales’ boil was given news-
paper importance because it was a Royal
Gathering.
* * * *
In Sydney District Court, the other day,
Judge Backhouse ruled that when a purchaser
asks a seller for a well-defined commodity and is
given it adulterated, the seller is liable for any
Bad consequences that may ensue. Finding is
based on the recent Sheffield (England) beer-
poisoning case, a plaintiff brewing co. getting
damages from the firm which supplied it with sub
phuric acid adulterated with arsenic. In the
Sydney case a photographer bought some mag-
nesium powder from a Sydney photo.-material
store, and when he attempted to use the stuff, it
exploded in his face, damaging him. The case
should be a warning to those folk who sell boracic
acid adulterated with sausage meat.
-** * *
The range of the motor increases. The
other day, one passed through Melbourne deco-
rously following a funeral.
* * • •
The social status of the folks in South
Gippsland (Vic.) is determined by the number of
their cows. If you have fifty or more you waltz
above the chalk line in the local “Assembly.”
Below that the grading goes by tens. Mrs. Jim-
son, who “milks forty,” says of Mrs. Jackson,
who only “milks thirty,” “A very nice person,
but hardly in our class. ” The bottom-railer, whom
difficulties have forced down to ten, is never asked
out to parties, or allowed to sing at the local
socials, whilst the unfortunate who “only milks
one ” is a pariah. When a man loses his cows
they scratch his name from the ball committee
and send him to herd with wallaby-trappers and
fern-cutters, until such time as he can patch up
ms damaged social prestige with a new lot of
Foleys and Spots.
* * * *
The recent fire in a Flinders-lane (Melb.)
factory resulted in a Board of Health inspector
visiting six factories in different suburbs, three of
them “old” and three “new.” All were of five
or six storeys, and all had workers packed on the
top storey, and only one had more than the usual
wooden inside staircase. One building of five
storeys was packed full of inflammable material
except the top floor, where were 161 employees,
whose only means of egress was an inside, winding
stairway. Another, of six storeys, had 262 women
and girls toiling on the top floor ; this was the
only one with an outside iron staircase, which
some genius of an architect had thoughtfully
carried right in front of a number of openings and
windows, and then run it into the shop at the
bottom, instead of making a clear-way down to
the ground outside. Not one of the six factories
boasted fire appliances or directions in case of fire,
while many of the doors opened inward, and exits
and stairways were obstructed.
OVER WEIGHTED.
NIECE: “How did you yet along- on that race,
uncle ?”
UNCLE: “ Rotten. Some fellows came along and
put me on the favorite."
NIECE: “Great Scott! no wonder it wobbled in
last."
Show me, ’ said the great Abernethy,
“an octogenarian, and I shall show you a man
who has passed the bulk of his life in the open
air.’ True, octogenarians are oxygenarians.
THAT TIRED FEELING.
MAN (coming up to counter): “Any
charnst of a job here, packing ? ”
CLERK : “ Inquire at the fourth floor,
please."
MAN : “Hare yer got a lift ?”
CLERK: “No.”
MAN : “ Well, could yer tell me when I can sec
the fourth floor bloke down ’ere !”
From a country schoolmaster :
Nervous weakness appears to be alarmingly on the in-
crease among backblocks school-children. Bad cases, as
shown by constant involuntary twitchings of the head, of
the arms, or a swaying of the body are common. Many
children cannot remain still for five'seconds. In one little
school of 25 pupils, 20 are budding victims for the “ s-pecks-
before-the-eyes ” quack. Of this number eight are hope-
less cases. Not only under instruction, but in the play-
ground, signs of loss of control of the limbs are abundant.
Other teachers say the same. A commission of educa-
tional and medical experts, poking into the back country,
would perhaps result in more rational changes in our
education system than did Messrs. Knibbs’ and Turner’s
ramble through Europe—and wouldn’t cost half the
money.
* * * *
It was stated by a deputation recently
that the Rookwood (N.S.W.) Necropolis is fast
filling up, and that more land and new drainage
are imperatively required. The necessary drainage
would, it seems, cost £5400 ; and the authorities
can only spend £2OOO at present, which will give
burial space for four or five years to come. But a
crematorium could be erected for £5OOO, capable
of disposing of the whole of the city’s dead ; and,
even if some people would still prefer the insani-
tary system of burial, the crematorium would at
least ease the strain. Besides, it would do some-
thing in the way of clipping the claws of the
ghoulish undertaker ; for cremation would abolish
the loathsome embalming business and the almost
equally loathsome silver-besplattered coffin.
* * * *
The “ send-for-the-police ” superstition
once more. A Broken Hill (N.S.W.) man
hanged himself recently, and at the inquest
his widow stated that “ she was afraid to cut the
body down, as she thought she had no right to
touch it until the police came.” She sent for her
son, who lived some distance away, and he also
declined to interfere until the arrival of the law.
The doctor’s evidence was that, although uncon-
sciousness might have come quickly through
shock, death did not intervene until 20 or 30
minutes later, which shows that the unscientific
suicide isn’t necessarily dead, though hanging.
How would it be for the Crown, one of these
days, to put on trial for manslaughter som»
foolish person who had left a body hanging while
he rushed off to yell for the police, just by way of
hitting at this deadly superstition ?
Sydney Bankruptcy Court had a curiosity
the other day in Douglas R. Waddell, a young
grazier, hailing from Singleton, who preferred to
go to Darlinghurst Gaol rather than answer a
simple question put to him by the Registrar in
Bankruptcy. The interrogation, on the face of it,
did not suggest any incursion into the sphere of
fluttering skirts. Bankrupt explained that he
had dealings in stock, and a certain financial loss
had caused his bankruptcy. What that loss was
he steadfastly declined to state. All that could be
got out of the bankrupt was that “the person
whose name T decline to disclose is the person I
expected to forward me money to pay my loss.”
The young man “in honor bound ” is now also in
prison bound. He was in tears, but still obdurate,
when taken in charge by the Sheriff’s officer.
THE SMITH PLAGUE.
STRANGER (to Sydney citizen) : “ Say , old boy, the
Smiths seem to be running this here com-
munity. Isn’t it about time you gave Brown
a show?”
The Bulletin recently expressed some
surprise that the eminently respectable parents
of Melbourne mermaidens did not raise violent
objections to their plump daughters figuring con-
spicuously in scant bathing trunks in pictures of
swimming contests, printed by local weeklies.
Transpires now that objection was raised in one
case, not by the parents, but by the buxom
mermaid herself. She called on an editor, and
entered her protest with a flushed face. Her
picture had not been printed quite as legibly as
she would have liked it. “ Why, my figure is
almost lost! ” she moaned, bitterly.
“ABROAD!"
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
s “ Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke have returned to London
from abroad.”— London Morning Post, Feb. Mh, V)O5.
Lord !
Not back from Monte Carlo, nor from Beaulieu, nor from
Nice,
Nor from lemon-chromed Palermo, rice-white Venice, nor
grey Greece;
Not from the Arno’s autumn-browns comes he to spend his
hoard—
From Australia Rupert’s back again—
The Indian Ocean track again
Brings Rupert from “abroad.”
Maud!
Tell the butler that he mustn’t mention Melbourne, if he
please,
For Rupert’s turned his back upon the beastly colonies !
Never speak of low Australia, where we ali become so
bored—
Only say that Rupert’s back again ;
The train-de-luxe’s track again
Brought Rupert from “ abroad.”
Bored !
Think of all the roaring days from eighteen-forty-five !
The Real Men fought the battle, and the clay-brained man
did thrive !
The bluestone plains of Keilor sweat to pile an unearned
hoard
To send Sir, Rupert back again—
To help him take the track again
To Fogtown, from “ abroad.”
Lord !
Did someone mention “Land Tax”? and “Tax the
Absentees ” ?■ —
“Export British superstitions from the freer Southern
Seas?”—
And, “Australia is our only Duty, Faith and Love and
Ward ! ”
Did I hear them saying these things as they put the drones
aboard ?
As they sent the Ruperts back again,
His class to take the track again,
And make them stay abroad.
LONDON.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
INTROSPECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With all that’s good in me to bless
And all that’s bad to damn,
I cannot be by storm or stress
Other than what I am.
Though I may know what I should be
And strive to that ideal,
Still do I pivot round that ME
The only fact that’s real.
Were each of us not such as this,
But like as grains of wheat,
Then were no fiend in Hell’s abyss,
Nor God on Judgment seat.
VIC.
F.M.


SHORTHAND
Successfully
taught by Mail by
the largest and
most highly
diplomaed staff of shorthand instructors in Australasia.
FEES MODERATE. INSTRUCTION INDIVIDUAL.
PROFICIENCY GUARANTEED.
‘‘Home Stupy” Post Free.
orr * Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128*130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
SILVER STAR STARCH
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KIIVG- STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
The Anglican Bishop of Melbourne
is promoting an all-round insurrection
against the tyrant
undVtaker. Ex-
pensivg “ inter-
ments are to be
denounced as
foolishness in
thesightof
the Lord,
and a svs-
tern of in-
creasing
the pay-
ment of re-
speet to the
dead whilst de-
creasing the aver-
age payment to the
funeral-monger will
be submitted to the
public with the en-
dorsement of the
churches. Any
movement for the
abolition of nod-
ding plumes, velvet
palls, mutes, floral
tributes, and other
incidentals of a
“first-class” funeral
is highly commend-
able, although it be
antagonistic to cre-
mation, which is
the hope of all true
burial reformers. The
churches are not consider-
ing the public health, but
they are full of sympathy
for the public pocket,
Also, they are incident illy
desirous of substituting
simple reverence for snob-
bish mummery in the con-
duct of what should he
“ solemn obsequies. ” And
this is where the churches’
trouble comes in. As a rule
the most palpably insincere
performer at a funeral is the hired
holy man, who stands by the grave-side and
breaks the silence with his droning utter-
ances. The chief mourners are apt to mourn
—for the moment, anyhow. The outer circle
of friends and acquaintances of the deceased
represents a genuine ripple of sentiment—except
in cases where the corpse was a person of social
importance and the funeral takes the form of a
mere influential gathering. The grave-digger is a
gloomy, ruggedly picturesque feature, and the boss
undertaker feels a visible pride in the job. But the
officiating parson ! He is the professional reciter-
jaded, emotionless, utterly unimpressive as a rule.
The jarring note in a quietly conducted Christian
burial show is the assertion of its Christianity by
the leading man. Why does he speak, and invite
unfavorable criticism, when he could better
represent the Church by waving an inaudible
blessing, or dropping the orthodox token of
silvation into the grave? A burial ceremony
should be silent as death itself, beautifully,
eloquently silent. Moreover, a Supreme Court
Judge should prohibit the publication of the
names of wreath-senders and fashionable gatherers
at these black functions. What chance is there of
bringing about a new simplicity in funeral
arrangements whilst the great snobocfacy is
encouraged by newspaper reports to treat every
important corpse as an advertising medium ?
King George 11., of Tonga, has lately been
in Auckland (M.L.). He is accompanied by a
compatriot secretary, and remains in Seddonland
until his dispute with the High Commissioner
is decided. He lives in state at the Grand
Hotel, Auckland, and is reticent on the sub-
ject of his quarrel with the “Empire.” This
potentate of Tonga is considerably over six
feet high, and his visit to Auckland coin-
cided with that of the negro giantess
Abomah, of a waxworks show. The popular
interest in His Majesty was somewhat heightened
by the fact that Abomah was frequently pointed
out in the streets as his consort.
IN TOPHET.— THE HIGH COURT IN
RODENTVILLE.
Not generally known that one point fatal
V application f or an old-age pension in
.rv wales is wife desertion at any time for a
period of six months or over. The other day
1 1* 13,11 who had been 50 years in Australia, and
who > mutual consent, left his wife 15 years
ago (the latter is now dead) was refused the
pittance.
EXPERT OPINION.
FITZNOODLE : “ Your women are pretty decent ,
doncherknow; but the men dress demmed
badly in this demmed country .”
Mrs. Rowan, flower painter, of Melbourne,
has got a big stock on hand. The other day, a
bunch of her friends (most of them, by the way,
strong anti-Socialists), agreeing that it was a case
in which the State ought to intervene, went up to
the Premier with a request for £4OOO for 500
drawings, to be the property of the State. They
rubbed in their case hard, if not well. The U.S.
and the German Emperor were both after the
pictures. The Kaiser would put up £15,000 for
the lot. but made it a condition that the
lady should devote her future life to Germany.
M . Bent opined that he might persuade the
Cabinet to spend £2OOO if the friends of the lady
would subscribe an equal sum. It was a fair
offer, but the friends didn’t seem impressed.
They withdrew, and the Cabinet has not yet
announced its decision; Mrs. Rowan paints Aus-
tralian flowers accurately and artistically. She
does not profess that she wants to sell to the
State portfolios containing anything like a tran-
script of the Australian flora, and therefore they
have no special scientific value. Mrs. Rowan is
a very estimable lady, has done very good work,
and has many friends amongst the “nicest ” people
of the State. But there seems no special reason
why her pictures should be bought by the State,
and certainly no reason why she should be misled
into refusing the German Kaiser’s most generous
offer. Why sell to Victoria for £4OOO what
Germany will pay £15,000 for ?
* * * *
On some of the N.S.W. branch railways,
in cases of break-downs, sudden calls for extra
hauling-power, etc.,
auxiliary engines
are despatched to
the scene of opera-
tions with all pos-
sible speed—prior
notice to fettleis,
fate-keepers, etc.,
ieing utterly out
of the question.
Recently, a fettling
ganger was knocked
off his tricycle by
one of these “spe-
cials,” escaping
death only by the
skin of his teeth.
Shortly afterwards,
a departmental
officer wanted some
particulars of the
accident —to the
tricycle! “What
was the first in-
timation you got
of the train com-
ing ? ” he asked.
“ When it hit me,”
replied the ganger. Then officialdom wrapped
itself in its red tape and went home.
* * * *
Vic. Premier Bent called attention, last
week, to the awful costliness of the prison system
in that State. Taking the daily average figures
for all the gaols during 1903, he found that a staff
of 249 persons was employed in safeguarding 1039
prisoners. Therefore his estimate of £35 13s. 4d. a
year for each prisoner is obviously under the
mark. The salaries of the custodians must absorb
something like £37,000, without counting the cost
of their board and the maintenance of the prisons.
Castlemaine gaol appears to be a specially lament-
able institution. £40,000 has been expended on
the building, which is at present occupied by
eight malefactors and three men in charge of
them. These figures are a humorous comment on
the complaint that penitent offenders are ruined
by being sent to “ herd with criminals. There
can’t be much herding of criminals in the Castle-
maine and other Vic. country gaols unless the
warders gather them all together for the purpose
of playing marbles.
The representative of the Association of
Journeymen Felt Hatters, giving evidence before
the Tariff Commission, told a little story with a
moral. At one time a Vic. mill was turning out a
neat boxer, the leather lining of which bore the
legend, “ made in England.” Through a Customs
seizure, it became known that the hats were a
local product, and instantly the demand for them
slumped. Nobody wanted them when it became
known they were not truly English. Tailors,
woollen millers, and others have told the Com
mission many similar tales, illustrative of the con-
tempt dunder-headed Australians have for Aus-
tralian wares. It is the effect of having a mother
country to “look up to.” Inevitable that the
people who look up to another country will look
down upon their own.
A CLEAN BALANCE.
MRS. WAKELY : “I hear you've had any number
of love affairs, Mr. Rakely .”
MR. RAKELY : “ Well, I've had a few, but they're
all paid for."
The Collector of Customs has just received
from an anonymous conscience-smitten smuggler
the sum of 3s. 6d., “ duty on goods received from
England.” It is always the 3s. 6d. man that is ;
conscience-smitten. Whoever heard of £30,000
coming back as conscience-money ?
* * • *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord North cote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
Mr. Percy Spence is showing a collection
of his works at Sands' Art Gallery, Sydney. It
exhibits a remarkable versatility and a notable
improvement in his technique. Oils, water-colors,
chalks, drawings with pen and pencil, portraits,
animal studies, landscapes and seascapes, allego-
ries, historical, decorative pieces, show that
Spence knows how to be Busy, Perhaps the
finest thing in the room is “The Silver Cup,” a
water-color, which takes the eye by its daring
contrasts in reds, and also by its fine proportion
and touch of sentiment. The big 250-guinea
picture, “Henry V. Reviewing His Cavalry,” is
tame and flat by comparison. The next large
picture has been already finely engraved and
represents a wind-blown Australian bushman
riding home, followed by his mare’s foal. As
good, if not a better, picture is “ Sundown.” One
as only to contrast these with the Spence
ploughman and horses in the Sydney Gallery to
realise the great strides made by the artist in his
drawing and coloring alike. “Summer” —a dia-
phanous, rose-scattering fairy —only appears a little
theatrical because out of tone with its sur-
roundings. The effect would be different if it
were shown in a room keyed up to it. The
exhibition is to sell as well as to show, and prices
range from 2 to 250 guineas. Some patriotic
Bathurstian ought to snap up, at ten guineas,
a beautiful characteristic oil-painting of the
upland city and its surroundings.
V # * 9
About dengue :
Out of 300 employees of the Brisbane Tramway Co.
only 25 had escaped dengue up till last week. Calculated
that over 100,000 people in Bananaland’s capital have
been affected during the past seven weeks. Undertakers
were benefited to a far greater extent than by the plague.'
Five people suicided at Brisbane because of dengue. One
man at Toowong has, through it, lost his memory to the;
extent that he does not know his own name, nor recog-
nise any member of his family. Four people dropped
dead from heart failure after rising from an attack. Many
have returned to their occupations so stupid as to be
praotically useless for work. All the local health resorts
are thronged with convalescents. The hospitals were
obliged to turn away all but serious cases through lack of
accommodation. Each drunk who has faced the music at
Brisbane for the past two or three weeks blames dengue
for his lapse, and the man who confessed to the crime of
shooting another declared he did so while suffering from
dengue. The epidemic hit the Friendly Societies hard.
In Brisbane their dispensary had an appalling inroad
made into its stock of drugs, &c. With a membership
of over 6000, mostly heads of families, it covers
fully a quarter of the city population. Last
month 13,970 prescriptions were dispensed, all for
dengue. A record of 722 prescriptions for one day
•was established, not including 14 pots of ointment, 828,
pills, 1875 powders, and 484 mixtures. Expensive drugs
such as quinine, phenacetin, antipyrine, salicylate of
soda, eaffein and asperin, were mostly in demand. The
abnormal run upon them exhausted the local supply, and
stocks had to be telegraphed for from Sydney.
* * * •
The travelling Englishman who complains
of Australian manners ought to take the beam out
of his own eye
and also his
country’s eye.
The English-
man abroad is
usually ridfed
for boorish-
ness. He in-
sults the peo-
ple of every •
country he ;
visits by mak- .
ing compari-
sons to their
disadvantage,
or by tramp-
ling on the
things which
he knows
that they hold
sacred just
in order to
show his
superiority to
their degrad-
ing supersti-
tions. E o r
instance, he
will walk in
a European
cathedral
with his hat •
on and talk loudly
concerning its carv-
ings and pictures
while people are
kneeling at worship -
all round him ; or he '
will walk into a >
Turkish mosque with
his boots on, if per- .
mitted, though he
knows that custom
compels boot re-
moval, and will , pro- )
ceed similarly to out-
rage the feelings of -
its occupants by idle
chatter. The scribbling, scrawling Eng- ,
lishman has been known to scratch matches,
on the carven screen of a Florentine cathedral ;
as he went out, to spit on the floor of St. Peter’s, ,
Rome, and to hew or scratch his ignoble name
on the pyramids of Egypt and the tombs of India,
including the glorious Taj Mahal. Manners and ,
customs vary : the good behavior of one country
constitutes evil manners in another, but no con- .
siderate and enlightened Englishman who has
travelled ever could fail to blush when the man-
ners of most of his travelling compatriots were
mentioned.
* * , * *
To make an exception, this Melbourne
‘school examination yarn. The children were
asked to explain the underlined words in the fol-
lowing : , . t
Hig-h in the air above the mosque, towers the
minaret.
One answer was : '•
Mosque—short for mosquito. Minaret—a sort of moth
that eats mosquitoes.
ON HER NERVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soft and sweet, for a while, the encouraging smile
Of the girl with a gentleman friend :
He is new to her taste, and his arm round her waist
Has a muscular charm in its bend—
For a while.
The man, for his part, may be losing his heart
Whilst the whim of the syren he serves,
And he finds he’s a fool when her manner grows cool
Just because he has “ got on her r>y is.”
He has wearied her whim :
No more kisses for him
It is useless to argue with nerves.
At first he seemed nice ; she had-thought, once or twice,
He was almost a boy she could love,
If he’d simply behave like an amorous slave,
And be proud to unbutton her glove—
(Ah 1 that glove)
But the friendship drags on till its newness is gone :
Then the arm that encircles her curves
Gives a sudden offence to her womanly sense,
For the fellow has “got on her nerves.”
Never more will she spoon
By the light of the moon
With the creature who “ got on her nerves.”
Fickle girl, soon or late, must submit to her fate,
Waxing warm where she meant to grow cool.
She’ll be caught in the end by a gentleman friend
Whom at first she intended to fool
(“ Mister Right ”),
And her worth she will prove in the rough course of I,ove,
The course whence no true woman swerves :
Clinging tight to the man, as a true woman can,
Just because he has “ got on her nerves ”
Not the nerves of disdain
In her reasoning brain,
But her heart’s own particular nerves.
VIC.
EDMUND FISHER.


R «.o^
'J* HEERINfi’S \
-CHERRY
BRANDY A
9f>
a?
The Grand BALLROOM SUiTE
BAUMANN'S CAF€
Mow Booking: Dates for the Season.
BEST CATERING. MODERATE CHARGES.
Menus and Estimates Gladly Supplied.
Under Vice Regal Patronage.
MADAME MASSERAN,
or COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE,
Is now at the HOTEL METROPOLE until FRIDAY,
28th INST., 5 p.m.
fd
,ty
“CRAV’ErtETTES
lish Are the Ideal Rubrics
RAINCOATS.
P.D. The New Q
f _>
orsets
Eor Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . • .
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 18, 1905.
My Deab Abini.—•
Lord and Lady Northcote are coming out of
their trance and beginning to take notice. The
Darleys have had them staying up at Katoomba.
Said that wherever her Ex. stays, in that house is
Seat riveting of the iron bands of etiquette.
ostess may not speak to Guest unless first
addressed. If Guest feels like having the society
of Hostess, the latter is notified, by some aide-de-
camp-ish person, of the staggering honor-in-store;
then if the Hostess does not meantime faint
through ecstasy, she obeys the summons, makes a
Court courtesy, and possibly may be permitted to
Bit down in her own drawing-room. The Onslows
and Darleys must have had a real carnival time
entertaining the Northcotes seemingly. Lady
Curzon isn’t the only potentate who has a “vice-
reine ” etiquette bee in her bonnet.
During the week Lord Northcote, accompanied
by Colonel Egerton (an old friend of the North-
cotes, and their guest), visited the show of oil
and water-color work of five Sydney girl artists,
and bought four pictures of flower pieces. On
Saturday, dressed in pale pastel tints, Lady
Northcote and her consort watched the Riverview
regatta, and sprinkled diplomatic diamond-dust
over the rector. With their Exes in the pavilion
were Treasurer J. G. Ward, of Maoriland, and
his charming wife.
The Wards have been bulking largely in Sydney
during the past week. To-morrow Mayoress of
Sydney holds a reception in the Town Hall in
their honor. Mr. Ward has strength and tact.
In M.L. his especial bantling, the Tourist Depart-
ment, though only four years old, has progressed
so wonderfully that it can crow over all the world,
and is to be imitated locally. But establishing
and maintaining that was only an atom of his
work; he holds half-a-dozen or so portfolios, and
is liable at any time to be called upon as Acting-
Premier when Mr. Seddon is away. His wife
helps the Minister a great deal in keeping his
hold on the public. Why do not all public men
take careful thought in the selection of their
wives ?
Sydney musicians are taking a great interest in
Lady Mary Lygon’s marriage, and there is talk of
sending her a gift. She initiated one of the most
successful musical competitions ever held in
Sydney, and was tactful enough to get the
various colleges and convents to participate.
Her playing on the city organ is still remem-
bered with praise, and she presented Tschai-
kowsky’s Orchestral Symphony to the Amateur
Orohestral Society. On her marriage she will
become. Lady Hepburn-Stuart-Forbes-Trefusis—
which is quite a symphony in hyphens. The
Beauchamp regime in Sydney was mighty popular .
with at least two sections. Artists and literary
people got first entertainment from Beauchamp,
whilst the Pointers angrily asked, “ Are people of
fashion played out ? ”
Mayoress of Sydney, Mrs. Taylor, will hold a
public reception, at Town Hall, on the 27th.
.When you are presented to Abomah, the
giantess, you instinctively lift your foot to ascend
a dais. Impression is that Elbe is standing on a
platform. She is genial and chatty, and, when
she laughs, puts her hands behind her and rocks
to and fro, a regular Mount Erebus in eruption—
also in a pink brocade gown, pearls, and ostrich
feather headdress.
Without any flourish of trumpets, or even a
band of music, the Kensington Golf Club opened
its doors officially on Saturday. Senator J. T.
Walker turned the key. The Kensington club
prides itself upon being a golf club pure and
simple. The members of the club despise the
fripperies of social side-shows with quite heroic
hostility.
Miss Noni Rickards’ marriage to Mr. Edward
Maas will take place next Tuesday at St. Mark’s.
There will be a reception afterwards at Mr. Harry
Rickards’place, “Canonbury.”
Among Miss Delia Mason’s friends, in Aus-
tralia, the report of her marriage with Maurice
Earkoa is denied.
Miss May Beatty (in the “Skirt Dancer,” at
the Criterion), wearing a daffodil and mandarin
Directoire costume, with a patch on her cheek, a
long walking-stick in her hand, and a beautiful
gold comb low in her back hair, looked a most
successful imitation of Miss Maud Jeffries. Both
ladies have very pronounced chins, and a perky
way of “pointing” with the same, and it is,
curiously, this feature that makes for most facial
effect and gets the eyes of the audience. The four
girls of the Gibson ballet, all in pale-amber with
amber chiffon muffs and a deep fringe of snow-
drops, were attractive revellers. But they took
some reconciling to the audience, which fully
expected tall, high-eyebrowed, drooping-lidded
Dana Gibson girls. There was no Dana about
their Gibson.
Miss Frances Ross, all in white satin and
sequins, showed up for a minute or two with the
Bland Holt Co. before the fall of the curtain, on
good-bye night, at the Royal. She remained
seated in a chair, and has not fully recovered from
her late serious illness.
A young civil engineer from our Uni., who went
out to Nicaragua nigh a year ago to manage a
concession or something, is leaving his post because
of the poor cooking and first-rate fevers he gets
there. Fried monkey, stewed macaw and iguana
have been the staple articles of diet.
A sympathetic correspondent:—
Re that wretchedly uncomfortable and dangerous skirt.
All women know its great discomfort; of its danger there
is frequent proof in the cruel sacrifice of some female
whose “clothes became ignited.” Since August, 1900, to
present date, I have collected extracts from one daily
Eaper in Australia, telling of 143 women and girls who
ave suffered agonising deaths because men decree that
our sex shall not dress rationally and safely. The mere
mention that we might substitute knickers and tunics
generally brings a cowardly shower of silly, sometimes
indelicate, arguments from a certain class of critics.
Others object to lasing, the “graceful skirt,” “flowing
drapery,” etc. Thrive might be some reason in that objec-
tion if women lived in drawing-rooms ; but in a busy,
useful, healthful life of almost continual movement, the
“flowing drapery” becomes harassing, ungraceful,
inimical to health, and, from an accident point of view,
dangerous. Yes, men are “the objectors,” and their
prejudice is responsible for all those grilled women.
Mr. Hollander, of the firm of Hollander and
Govett, of Wynyard-square, who died so suddenly
last week, was one of the best-liked Hebrews in
Sydney. He leaves eight daughters and two sons.
They are an intensely musical family, and run an
orchestra among themselves. Several of the chil-
dren are married. Their late father had strong
patriarchal instincts, and liked to have all his
family, married or single, living under his roof.
His house, “ Maramanah,” at Potts Point, was a
favorite rendezvous of musicians and actors of the
strictly correct Bland Holt and Robert Brough
type.
That Garter-and-Stocking dinner given in the
hop-vined environs of Hobart, by a section of
holiday-makers who are as fast as a steeplechase,
must have been an entertaining item. I wish
they’d repeat it, the finale I mean, here in
Sydney, at and in aid of (say) some charity fes-
tivity. We’d undertake, for charity’s sake of
course, not to be shocked. The competing ladies
sat behind a screen which had been raised a foot, or
a little more, from the floor. They had removed
their shoes, and tucked up their trains so that
the color of their gowns should not betray them.
On the other side of the screen stood the men,
and guessed the ownership of the feet.
Most successful guesser got a prize. There
were also prizes for the wearers of the brightest
hosiery and, a Hobart friend tells me, for the
wearer of the prettiest pair of honi-soits. But
that I don’t believe. Exhibitors drew the line—
or rather the screen—at honi-soits. A pretty
young woman-o’-war is said to have got a prize for
her jewelled stockings. A Sydney firm has some
jewelled leg-robes at seven guineas a pair. In the
recent competition corned feet did not compete.
More women become fascinated with actresses
than with actors. In Sydney a fashionable
doctor’s daughters pursue with presents, visits,
and the proffered loan of their brougham all the
female theatricals—stars and star dust —who come
here. They fairly radiate satisfaction when they
have a real liigh-stepper with them in public.
And when the artiste settles down in a flat her
girl-worshippers send her numerous artistic fur-
nishings for keeps. Miss Tittell Brune had
hundreds of girl worshippers, but curiously enough
these mostly declared their passion after the
actress had played a youth’s part, L’Aiglon.
They were in love with the phantom Eaglet and
showed it by writing bubbling letters to his
interpreter and asking her for her autograph and
portrait.
Miss Hamer with her big coffee colored eyes
and fine turquoises is back here and has got a flat.
Also she has recovered from the “dingo” fever
that she contracted in Brisbane.
bection of Sydney Society that speaks such
French as God pleases is having a great time
calling on Madame Pinhard, the new Consul’s
wife. She speaks no English. Yet she’s going
to be an acquisition because she dresses as only
smart Parisiennes can dress. But I forget: a
Sydneysider, just back from Paris, assures me
that the old style of corset that pushes the bust
up and out, pouter-pigeon fashion, is in again.
This disagreeable information is given for what
it’s worth.
The “ Jack ” Scantleburys have evidently taken
root in the Eog. They have also taken a house at
Hampstead for seven years. Rupert Clarke says
that Mr. S. has become part owner of a well-known
newspaper. I see by Bkitish-Austualasian that
Lord Selborne has been givinga little dinner-party
to sundry peers and their wives, and that Mr. and
Mrs. B. R. Wise leavened the aristocratic dough.
Mrs. Smart—pretty little Kitty’s mother—has
again said good-bye to her friends over a series of
pink teas and inside an orchid-toned tea-gown.
Some squatteresses most permanent address would
be on board this or that ocean-liner. Miss Kitty,
of course, became, some months ago, the wife of an
epauletted person, who says “haw” in the correct
way.
Miss Ethel (Marcus) Clarke left by the Sierra
yesterday for U.S.A., where she has secured an
engagement. Miss Clarke had been with the
Bland Holts up to time of her departure.
Miss Bassian’s throat went back on her again
last week, and kept her out of the bill for a few
days. Her place was taken by the tall, blue-
eyed, yellow-headed Miss Godwin, a local girl
who had understudied Miss Florence Young.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“A shoal of charmers flowed over Princes
Court, on Saturday, in the name of charity. The
Women’s Hospital funds needed fattening up. The
dame of Stonington, welcomed by Mr. R. Lance-
lot levers and his organising brethren, started the
fair fleecers on their rounds. Mrs. Grosvenor, in
a rooster-tail boa and an admirably-cut frock in
inky-tone, backed up her slim sister at the breath-
ing forth of the blessing. The one droll
feature of the brisk noon was the Keller-
mann plunge and convolutions in the tank before
the Stonington folk. Annette, the Sandow
of the Y-arra, was freshly suited in a scarlet
stockingette affair. This was a bold contrast to
her body’s brownness. Most of those occupying
the front pews were drenched —some indignant
dames and irritated males having to remove them-
selves their soaking clothes to an outside line
to dry. The Talbot Countenance was a study in
emotions—blushful surprise, amusement, astonish-
ment, and fear.
“Said that the fete on Saturday realised over
£lOOO. The Hospital committee endeavored to
rent the Court and its Chute for a week, but
without success. So the tents of Charity pegged
with such care on Saturday morning had to be
folded up once the day was over.
“ The Waxcellency’s re-united family made an
impressive descent on Saturday’s Show—all in
blue, from the Cloyne dame down to the grand-
chick in white socks and marked veins. The
returned beauty’s was a tailor-outfit, topped by an
ermine toque, at the side of which nestled a flushed
group of roses. That gem of the clan is looking
paler and serener. Mrs. Vallange wears a sweet,
tired air. Her long, cadaverous hubby cranes his
neck in his old, supercilious manner.
“ Toorak society flutterers are grumbling hard,
because they don’t think they are getting their
share of G.G. mbney. The ‘scrumptuous ’ enter-
taining expected from the vice-regal pair,
after all the advertising of their enormous
private fortune, hasn’t come off. The vice-
regals are running the show in the temporary
Fed. capital economically, and don’t care a
dump for the splendors of office from the
Toorakian -point of view of hops, garden parties,
etc., etc. Instead, they are given to roaming the
country over, staying months at a stretch at
various beauty spots, and when they do want a
breath of town life, they go to Sydney—so it is
complained. ‘Why, if it wasn’t for the little
spurt at Cup-time, it’s hardly worth spoiling a
pair of gloves scribbling your name in Govern-
ment House book, ’ wails Mrs. Sassiety.
“ The Lenten season pursued the ashen tenor of
its way without a marriage-peal, till a week or two
ago, when The Voice breathed o’er two dressy
brides. One was Miss Florence Merritt, the
pretty daughter of the mayor of Kew. Her
fellow-partner was Mr. 0. E. Campbell, son of the
M.L.C. A lavish floral scheme concealed most of
the church architecture andlent a Garden of Eden
effect, and it goes without saying that Kew in
general crowded to the show. The Merritts have,
money, and the eldest daughter—the bride in
question—is more than passing fair. Fat cheques
figured large on the list of marriage-offerings.
The heroine of the other wedding was Miss Mary
I). Anderson. Mr. Gerald Cumming played
happy man. The fair girl hails from the district
where the prize potatoes bloom, and she took care
to have her ring blessed there in the midst of
all the fashion of the woolly West.
“A kitchen-tea (which is not a repast spread
over the washing-up sink, but a refreshment backed
up by bridal offerings of pots, pans, and gridirons)
came off in Kew recently. The bride in this
instance could easily have, furnished six kitchens
of her own ; but her girly friends insisted that her
dippers and her colander should be marks of
affection from them, and the flat-irons memorials
of amity. That the ordinary Melbourne bride of
large banking account never by any chance strains
the potatoes or poaches an egg for hubby, or
personally throws the flat-iron at him, makes no
matter. The sentiment of the kitchen-tea is
fashionable, and that atones for its being foolish.
“ The Ernest Brookes took ship to Europe last
week, a bevy of fashionables flicking scraps of lace
and muslin at them in farewell. By the same
steamer sailed a bride-elect, who has to catch up
to her waiting swain in one of the Indian ports.
“Mrs. James Mills, wife of the Maoriland
shipping magnate, has been having a good time
among the smart Melb. dames. Mrs. Dickenson
organised one tiffin party, at Menzies’, in the
visitor s honor, and had all her most amusing
Toorak chums to make merry. A luncheon
requires brisk talk and loud laughter, whereas a
full-sized dinner can get along with very little of
either. In the memoirs of the cripple Abbe
Scarron and his lovely young wife there occurs
an incident illustrating this. At a big table-
gathering the waiter anxiously whispers to the
hostess, ‘Tell them another Story, please madame,
for we have no joint to-night.’
“Tenor Walter Kirby is doing so well in the
Big Smoke that he doesn’t bother to keep Aus-
tralian papers posted up as to his warblings -in
Mayfair. In two London papers posted out this.
mail with certain articles marked, I find mention 1
of tenor Kirby two or three times. The Ducal
Somersets have had him to warble twice.
“ There’s no written law for the naming of roses,
but there’s something in a culturist’s instinct in
labelling the blooms with something of congruity.
For instance, I noticed at the Athenteum Show
the blushful wickedness of some specimens bearing
such a name as Marie Diablerie. Any rose that
looks dissipated—warm-blooded, emotional, bril-
liant—gets invariably a French label. An anaemic,
weak, droopy, incapable variety earns 'a homely
name like Alice Blank or Fanny Dot. The lazy,
lolling, drunken kind bears an Italian or Ger-
man _ name that Is not safe to tackle in
public. The dignified, self-contained, beauti-
ful exhibit is a Lady Elizabeth Montmorency
or a Duchess of Dorsetshire. Sometimes one gets -.
surprises. A Marchioness Something-or-Other, is
found to be overpowering—a sweet, shrinking,
shy little rose that would be happier, and actually
smell sweeter for another name such as Dulcie
Brook. Other times, a superb, voluptuous,, big-
bosomed rose gets an unsympathetic label like
The Lachlan. But the character of the bloom
earns its name from its understanding cultivator.
As a rule, the most anaemic roses are of American
birth.
“The autumn rains were kind to the roses this
season. Consequently the Bose Society held an
exhibition on Thursday. The State Exes, trooped
along to the Athenaeum Hall for the start of it.
The vice-regal dame, in black garb, and dark hat
flying a loose indigo-blue gossamer, declared the
show blooming well and open, and accepted a won-
derful basket of blood-stained roses for her pains.
The show had the help of arches formed of pale
gold buds and rain-ripened crimson blooms. The
Allister Clarkes, who, when not whisking about
Toorak, are talcing prizes for Buff Orping-
tons, Bulla cheese, or polo ponies, scored
most points for four lots of specimen roses. One
lot contained an exquisite bloom—a Gheinruth.
In form, color and perfume this rose was perfect.
I noticed how diligently Mrs. Hickman Moles-
worth and other mansioned dames dotted down
the names of the favorite prize-winners for the
information of their gardeners.
“Mrs. Norman Menzies, followed by an English
nurse carrying the precious Menzies infant, some-
times strikes the town. A much-deferred babe is
always such a momentous object of care. By the
way, the most notable dazzler of the City of
(empty) Churches is preparing in an ostentatious
manner for a domestic event. She is in this city
at present, and the news is industriously circu-
lated.
“Those Japs who have survived the genera
slaughter write out to their Melbourne girls
accounts of the ‘ war and the glory of our great
illustrate Mikado.’ One of them scribbles:
Now it we are ordered peace and rest I hope to see
you sweet Miss again and your dear famaly that is so
hospitality to the visitor from Japan. I dream sometimes
of you sweet Miss that I love and have your pictur that
is saved all through the big war.
And so on. The memory of these small brown
chappies for sentimental and scenic details is a
matter of amazement. As a rule, the Englishman
forgets which he has kissed, what time, and how
often, and exactly where, and has to resort to
subterfuge when the amorous gold-fish questions
him fondly on the subject. The small, mahogany
mash forgets nothing, and the girls are flattered
to ridiculous excess. A big brown compliment is
preferred to a small white compliment, and the
white compliments, alas ! are apt to run very
small.
“ Concert warblers andstrummers in Melbourne
break,out into a general wail over the dull state of
the music market. Engagements are rare and
little profitable. The imported voice and strum,
with the cheap canned notes’ of the phonograph,
are ruining the local industry. The only refuge
is pupils (and the concert artist finds teaching
most wearing), or to travel to the backblocks to
warble...“ The Wearing of the Green,” or “Auld
Kobin. Grey, ” to farmer Shaggy-whiskers.
“A green-hearted audience greeted Andy Mack
on Saturday night. That broth of a boy with the
loveliest legs possible, and a curled forelock spell-
ing heaps of Irish mischief, nodded briefly to the
welcome, and got along breezily with his Tom
Moore. The feminine audience fell into ecsta-
sies over Andy. Certainly his love-making
has points. He does it with tenderness,
huiqor, and at the psychological second with that
tremor of lips and to;, that best convince the
colleen that there’s passion smouldering down in
the heart. Miss Josephine Scott, who plays the
colleen, is a snug little person, with coy airs and
pretty shoulders—also taste in wearing early
Victorian garb.
“ With the Maddens comes news from London
of their aunt’s engagement at the end of her be-
reavement term. Mrs. Bingham, out of mourning
for her departed Colonel, is about to marry another
Colonel, Palliser-Hickmann, R. A. The Madden
girls describe him as a fascinating Irishman of
middle age. Mrs. Bingham is still a pretty
woman, who would look more fetching in a
mournful picture hat and a cluster of violets
under her chin than most charmers hereabouts.
She has a family of three—all daughters—and
young.
‘ ‘ There must be some sly humor or an o verween-
ing seriousness about a Vice-Regal who discourses
before a society of any sort on ‘ The Dukes of
Leisure.’ Yet Governor Strickland tackled the
subject, before the Hobart Royal Society, last
week. Victoria’s Reginald ought now to descant
on ‘ The Onerousness of a Soft Snap.’
“An official of the Stonington staff once told
me that Gov. Talbot was, for all his stiff dignity
and high nasal bridge, as sensitive to public
opinion as a popular curate. ‘Misrepresentation’
was his horror.
“ Percy Grainger, the Australian native piano-
strummer with the angelic profile and the per-
oxided-looking locks, has been having Royal
commands to make music, and other marks of
appreciation dealt to him by the mighty atoms of
the Cold Country. Now he is deep in the study
of Icelandic folk songs, and purposes to set the
ice-bound poetry into melodious streams of song.
“The Malcolm M'Eacharns have been genu-
flecting to royalty at Buckingham—the dame
herself in a wonderful mauve silk, with an over-
dress of lace, worked some years ago by the nuns
of Abbotsford, and the daughter (she of the
studious bumps) in a white silk embroidered by
the brown maids of Monkey-land for this purpose
when the family squatted under the cherry-
blossoms a year or two ago. The Duchess of
Buccleuch piloted the team into the presence of
Majesty.
Yours Affectionately,
ARENEHI.
The Charm of Beauty. — “Valaze” is not a
make-up, but a food which builds up the tissues and
nourishes the skin; removes freckles, wrinkles, sun-
burn, sallowness, &c., and enables a woman to retain
youthful freshness until advanced age. It takes only
a few minutes to apply at night, and the only
trace of it next day is the wonderful improvement it
has wrought to the skin. After once using it you will
feel absolutely satisfied that its value is worth three times
the money. But beware of substitutes. Valaze—small
jar 3s. 6d., large 6s. ; posted 6d. extra. Valaze Face
Powder, three tints, absolutely pure, hygienic, and con-
tains no lead, chalk or bismuth, 2s. box. Valaze Herbal
Complexion Soap is unequalled for keeping the face and
hands in perfect condition—lasts six months —2s. yalaze
preparations obtainable W. H. Soul, Pitt-street, Sydney
Civil Service, all leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne.*


BAD BACKS.
A Dozen Causes, One Cure—Dr. Williams ’ Pink Pills -
BACKACHES come from many causes, and
they all yield to the one cure—Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
Whatever the cause, Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills strike straight at the root of the whole
trouble in the blood. They actually make new
blood.
“Morning, noon and night my hack ached and
ached till I thought it would break, ’ ’ says Mrs.
C. Courtney, Moore Park, Sydney. “ I was
thoroughly run down—but Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills soon built me up and cured my backache like
magic.”
Most backaches come from sheer weakness,
just like Mrs. Courtney’s. Many are due to a
chill or touch of lumbago. Some are a sign of
coming curvature or paralysis. In men, spinal
weakness is a common cause—in women backaches
very often come from those secret internal troubles
that follow' so surely on any weakness or irregu-
larity in the usual blood-supply.
And then back-aches, like liead-aches, are some-
times symptoms of deeper diseases such as rheu-
matism, influenza, indigestion, constipation, liver
complaint or kidney trouble. But kidney trouble
is not half as common as people fancy. It is only
an odd back-ache that has the slightest connection
with the kidneys—and, even then, the only sure
cure is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually
make new blood—and new rich blood is a far better
medicine for sick kidneys than any irritating
drugs could be.
In fact, new blood cures every kind of back-ache
by removing the cause. That cause is usually
general weakness, as it was in Mrs. Courtney’s case.
After doctors fail, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure
because the new blood they make carries health
and strength to every nook and corner of the body.
The muscles become strong, sturdy and supple,
and every trace of back-ache vanishes.
“As all my friends know, I suffered a great
deal from ill health, till I found out what a
wonderful medicine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
were,” Mrs. Courtney went onto say. “Isuf-.
fered almost incessantly from terrible back-aches.
I had sick head-aches, too, and fits of dizziness.
I was always ailing, and always tired. I had
hardly the strength of a kitten. My blood was in
a weak, watery state, and all my muscles were
flabby and ready to ache if I did the least work.
At last I determined to take a good course of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—a dozen
boxes if necessary. After the second box my
appetite picked up wonderfully. From that time
on I gained in strength and health every day.
Gradually my back ache eased up, and soon I was
restored to perfect health. I have never had a
back-ache since, so Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have
cured me for good.”
Mrs. Courtney’s case is only one of hundreds.
Among your own neighbors you will find cases
just as wonderful in which Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills have struck at the root of other blood diseases
like anaemia, indigestion, rheumatism, sciatica,
neuralgia, nervousness, headaches, and the special
secret sufferings of growing girls and women when
the regularity of their blood-supply is deranged.
Remember, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills do not act
on the bowels. They do one thing only, but they
do it well—they actually make new blood. If you
are not sure whether your special trouble is caused
by bad blood or not, write for free medical advice
to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney. From
the same address you can order the genuine Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills by mail—2/9 a box ; six boxes
15/3, post free.
D? WILLI A MS 9
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLt
r.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
After all, the worst variety of sundowner
is the smug fellow who comes along with a hymn-
book, a cast-iron front, and a deep hat —for col-
lections.
A tip. While Mr. G. H. Reid is in
Westralia he will break it gently to Mr. Bigjohn
Forrest that Mr. Reid is the nominee of this
Government for the High Commissionership.
Then Mr. Forrest will decide to re-enter State
politics.
Rosina Robins, the self-confessed poisoner
of her mother, appears in Melbourne garbed in
deep mourning for her victim. What a grim bur-
lesque of grief!
During the Carrie Swain-Frank Gardner
trial at Paris, Gardner offered in court to allow
Carrie Swain £2400 a year if she would “ let him
alone.” She foolishly refused.
After 40 years’ service Dr. J. E. JSToild has
retired from the position of lecturer on forensic
medicine at Melbourne University. The little
literary-medico is in his 82nd year, and arrived in
Melbourne in 1853.
A (lay or two after the del very of an anti-
gam I >ling diatribe by a Maoriland Judge, his son
won £6OOO in Tatts.
Camel man Abdul Wade, who has made
much money at the game, has bought, and is reno-
vating expensively, a Sydney waterside mansion.
Millionaire Carnegie recently wrote to an
old Scottish schoolfellow, Mr. Win. Hutton, a
farmer out of luck at Casterton (Vic.), that if he
liked to return to his native country he would
provide him with a pension of £lOO a' year. The
offer has been accepted.
Died lately, centenarian Jas. Gosden, of
Williamstown (Vic.), aged 103 years and six
months.
Dandy Croker, Melbourne’s legal Beau
Brummel, is just as precise in his gait as in his
garo. He always takes streets at right angles.
‘‘IN o one has ever seen Croker walking on a
hypotenuse, ” once remarked a critic.
Evangelist F. B. Smith, now showing in
Sydney, is a good deal harder on the ragged and
unemployed—those who have no cash for the .
oollection-plate— than was the Founder of the
faith which is his profession. His version of the
Gospels seems to have been revised by Carnegie
and Jay Gould.
COLLISION THREATENED .
DRUNKEN SAILOR ( suddenly confronted by chemist's
red mid green lights): “Port ’er ’ elm , Bill,
port ’er ’elm — she’s ’endin’ straight for us.”
Mr. Justice Owen, to conduct the Royal
Commission on N.S.W. Parliamentary land agency
affairs, set the good example, when appointed
President of the Commission on the Sehey charges
against Eddy, of declining any remuneration for
his services, stating that his payment as Supreme
Court Judge covered all services.
Bv a whimsical resolution of N.S.W.
Cabinet, the melancholy-looking, Abe-Lincoln-
like Mr. J. A. Hogue has been commissioned
to hold up the social end of the political log in
public. His efforts to be gay and sprightly,
showing just a hair or two of the devil as he galli-
vants, are sincere, but must be exhausting.
Burly Tom O’Callaghan, Victorian Chief
Commissioner of Police, reaches the retiring age
of 60 this month, and is expected to be put on the
pension-list. The appointment of his successor
will raise the question of venturing another pro-
motion, or going outside the force for a new Chief.
If the appointment went by a police vote Superin-
tendent Milne, of Stawell, would romp in.
Four most highly paid public officers in
Australia are Chief Justices Griffith, Darley, and
Madden, and Vie. Railway Commissioner Tait,
who are all on the £3500 a year mark. The Vic.
Puisne Judges and Dr. Maxwell, the Queensland
sugar expert, are' close up with £3OOO. The
poorest paid Judges in Australia are those of Tas-
mania, at £1200; though Bent’s newly-appointed
County Court Judges are only £5O better.
S.A. Senator Playford is a man of great
personal strength, developed by his old game of
cabbage-building. When he was Commissioner
of Public Works in S.A., a deputation waylaid
him passing through Woodside, and asked for a
grant of £5O to repair a dangerous washaway.
Playford, accompanied by a majority of the popu-
lation, went out to inspect. Tom then set to
work with a shovel (which he had surreptitiously
brought in his buggy), and in a quarter of an hour
he had the washaway half filled. “There, gentle-
men, said he, “if I hadn’t a deputation to meet
at Strathalbyn, I would stop and finish it for you.
As it is, you can complete it amongst you ih
10 minutes.'’ Thus was £5O saved to the tax-
payers.
The widow of Henry Parkes left for
England, by the White Star ship Runic, on
Saturday last. She has given devoted attention
to the Parkes children since the old man’s death,
and only takes a rest now that they are all
, practically settled. Sydney, the eldest boy, now
21. is with a big Sydney wool firm ; Henry takes
to the sea as a middy on an ocean wind-jammer •
and Kenilworth is in N.S.W. Railway Dept’
The girl Aurora, now 16, and baby Gobden remain
behind at school, but latter is to follow, to enter
London Bluecoat School, later. Mrs. Parkes will
be the guest of S. A.’s ex-Governor Fowell Buxton
for a tune.
The medallion likeness of the late Dr.
Manning, now exhibited in Sydney Art Gallery
will go permanently to Gladesville Asylum. In
Gladesville and Callan Park the scientific treat-
ment of the insane was begun by Dr. IVlanning,
and his methods have been object-lessons to Aus-
tralia. Something of his humanity and genius has
passed into the management of all institutions for
the insane whether in Australia or England.
At a Leichhardt bazaar-opening the other
day, Reid was presented by a little
girl with a bag of sweets. Mr. Reid is notoriously
fond of sweets—the sweets of office and lollies
at 2s. per lb. He is also, by the way, fond
of saveloys, and used to regale his friends, when
H.S.W. Premier, with saveloy luncheons at the
Treasury. Bazaar promoters might take this
hint. Saveloys are very cheap at the current
price for boracic acid.
While crossing the Gwydir River (N.S. W.)
in a sulky at Ezzy’s Crossing recently, George
Jones, M.L.A., and William Webster, M.H.R.,
were both swept away. They regained the bank
at length— wet through and minus their overcoats.
The cookies of the neighborhood reckon that the
long-asked-for bridge is now as good as built. But
one local is not certain. “It would have been a
bigger certainty,” he said, sorrowfully, “if they
had both been drowned ! ”
The Japanese Mikado has sent decorations
to, among others, Mr. Justice Barton and Malcolm
M'Eacharn, of Australia. What the latter does
is of no moment, but it is surely against the
dignity and interests of the Commonwealth that
one of its High Court Judges should accept this
Asiatic decoration, if for no other reason because of
the existence on our statute-book of a law—which
that Judge must help to administer and interpret—
intended to bar Asiatics out of the country.
Some 16 years ago The Bulletin was
attacked for stating that Disraeli once delivered
himself in a speech of the opinion : “ The present
occupant of the throne (Queen Victoria) is phy-
sically and morally incapacitated from performing
her duties.” Whether Disraeli’s statement was
true or not, there is now no need for argument,
but there can be no doubt that the words were
uttered. In his latest book, George Jacob
Holyoake asserts that Disraeli used the phrase at
Aylesbury, and that it appeared in all the leading
English papers on 27th September, 1871.
Corrected impression of all Sydney Gallery
frequenters is that Longstaff’s picture of Lawson
is, on the whole, his best portrait there. Lawson
tells how it was painted
I was on my way to London, and the boat only
stayed at Melbourne for two days. I had pro-
mised the editor of The Bulletin to see Longstaff,
and intended to go, but the former wired to him to
catch me, and he sent two friends down to the
boat on the morning of our arrival—Alf. Vincent
was one, I think. I gave Longstaff two sittings
—one each day. I have no definite recollection
of the time ; it may have been five or six hours—
possibly only four. I was hurried and bothered.
Longstaff was neither hurried nor bothered, but
he hurried on with it. He worked fast. I had
my little boy, Jim, with me ; he played quietly
with something Longstaff gave him, and slept.
But I have one decided impression which shall
last; that is of the man at work. The vitality,
the force and energy under perfect control ; the
complete absence of anything which suggested
the conscious artist. It was a perfect artist work-
ing against time to paint a man who had
neither the time nor freedom of mind, even had
he been built that way, to think about his
pose, expression, or general appearance. The
suit I wore cost £2 ss. readymade. Longstaff
had a photographer in, in case he should need
help with the details of the position of the figure
when I should be gone, but he didn’t use" the
photographs for the face—if, indeed, he used
them at all. He said I was the best sitter he
ever had. When I was going he said he would
soften down the face a bit afterwards. I don't
think he did. Anyway, 1 couldn’t see any
difference in the portrait when I saw it, over
two years later, in the Sydney Gallery.
S. Talbot Smith, from Adelaide :
I am sorry to see (B. 23/3/’O5) that an Australasian Club
is being formed at Cambridge ; sorry, because it shows
that the similar club which we founded 20 years ago has
died in the interval. Australasians had for some time got
together once a year to be photographed in a group and
to have “ scratch fours ” on the river, and a healthy little
club, with a few appropriate newspapers, and an animal
dinner, was the natural outcome. Among undergraduates
of the day were Sheppard, of Q., who was Senior Wrangler,
the two Bells (one of them now Q. Minister of Lands),
two Tripps, from Maori land, Steve Fairbairn (who was in
the Cambridge eight), Manifold, Armytage and Wanliss,
from Vic. ; Mortlock (now M.P.), two Hawkers, John
Baker, Barr Smith, George Tomkinson, Percy Robin, and
many others,
Tasmania s Premier has had two
-Tasmania’s heartless official behavior in
tailing to take adequate measures for rescuing the
crews of the Brier Holme and
Acacia, wrecked within a day’s
journey of Hobart. Not per-
sonal y, but as the repre-
sensitive of that official-
dom, he was hooted on
Hobart wharfs when
Larsen, the sole Brier
Holme survivor, land-
ed ; and the wreaths
and condolences sent
by him to relatives of
the Acacia crew resid-
ing in Hobart, were
rejected. P’raps the
condolences deserved
that fate anyhow.
There was “poetry”
in them.
Mr. Chamberlain,
while Colonial Secre-
tary, once maae an
attempt to remodel the
Parramatta (N.S.W.)
Old Men’s Home. A
bush veteran, with
blue blood and a bad
cough, fell to be an
inmate of the home,
but found the food
bad, the damp soaking
through him, and the
general state of the
place an aggravation
of misery. He wrote
directly to Mr. Cham-
berlain, giving family
facts. Mr. Chamber-
lain promptly wrote
to Lord Hampden,
then Governor, who
communicated with
Mr. Brunker, then in
the Government, and
Mr. Brunker talked
about reform. The
affair fizzled out. how-
ever, for the veteran had died.
“ Whenever he is deeply moved,
the Premier perspires like an autumn
dew,” says Melb. Age of T. Bent. So
that Tommy’s enemies always know when they
have got him wet.
Will of Victorian ex-Premier Shiels gives
another proof of the fact that politics don’t pay.
His estate is set down for probate at under £lBOO.
In leaving the whole to his widow, testator
directed that, cremation not being practised
locally, he be buried as plainly as possible, the
total cost of the funeral not to exceed £5O.
Senator Staniforth Smith has been visiting
the New Guinea goldfields. He received deputa-
tions of miners at the Gira and Yodda, and had
arrangements made to go through the gap across
the range to Port Moresby, but an attack of fever
at the Yodda satisfied him. He walked nearly
200 miles through the country and established a
record, as far as politicians are concerned.
N.S.W. Arbitration Court will re-assemble
after recess with its personnel unchanged. Jus-
tice Cohen has consented to preside for another
six months ; the community will devoutly hope
that further thought will induce him to preside
another three years. He has borne most of the
heat and burden of the position, and future work
is likely to be much easier. Employees’ repre-
sentative Sam Smith was almost unanimously
re-elected, as was employers’ representative J. P.
.Wright.
The new Inspector-General of Asylums in
Victoria, Dr. Jones, jumps, it is said, from £3OO
at ’Ome to £l5OO here. After some general prac-
tice, he decided to specialise, and was Superin-
tendent of the Bi’econ Asylum, in Midland Wales,
when Victoria “discovered” him. At Brecon he
had about 209 patients under him ; now he will
have to wrestle with a shockingly disorganised
system, which has 4400 patients and about 550 of
a staff. It appears Mr. Irvine, when on his “sub-
scription ” holiday, saw Dr. Jones in London, and
strongly recommended him to Mr. Bent.
A remarkable trio in Adelaide are solicitor
Arthur Hardy, Sam Davenport and T. S. Beed.
All three came from England long ago as invalids,
and Reed, the youngest of them, will be 87 next
month. Hardy (whose brother-in-law was John
Stuart Mill) dodged the impending funeral, and
erected his brass plate in Stephen’s Place in 1839 ;
he has been taking out probates for other
people ever since. His present office is at the
top of two steep flights of stairs. Davenport, who
held his 87th birthday party the other day, was
the first responsible Minister in S.A.’s House of
Landlords, but gave up politics a generation or
two back for olive-growing at Beaumont, whence
he usually comes into the city (5 miles) on horse-
back. Beed arrived in Adelaide 40 years ago
with one lung and some reminiscences, some of
which latter he lately published in two volumes.
STONE BROKE.
INEBRIATED PARTY (in confidential whisper):
"S'cuse me, shir, hut could you d'rec' me to
the (hie) Temperance Hall?”
EEPECTANT PARY : “ Certainly, my poor man.
You wish to sign the pledge?"
I.P.: “O dear no! But I can't get tick at the
pub. oppersite.”
“ Southern Cross” writes concerning an
old-time family :
One of the oldest houses on the North Shore is being'
demolished. It was built about 1834 for the owner,
William Gibbes, and was called “Beulah.” He was a
rather prominent figure in Sydney', and married a
daughter of the late Mr. John Jamieson. Of his three
sons, one —F. W. Gibbes—was for a long time member of
Legislative Assembly for Newtown. William Gibbes was
the eldest son of Colonel Gibbes, for many years Collector
of Customs for Sydney when Bourke was Governor. He
had a large house called “Point Piper” given him as a
residence. After living there for some years, about the
same time “ Beulah” was built, the Colonel built on the
next point a house called “ Watonga.” It is still standing,
but most of its beauty is hidden by that ugly place,
Admiralty House.
A Victorian opinion of the leader of the
Third Party
Mr. Mackinnon practises politics in much the same
fashion as he practises law. He plays at being a lawyer,
walking up to Selborne Chambers every day for the fun
of the thing, and lw»lso plays at being a politician. That
sort of thing may sent Mr. Mackinnon, who is a rich man,
and doesn’t need to gallop after his bread and butter, but
it is no good to Australia. This country has no time for
dilettante politicians, any more than it has for dilettante
hod-carriers or amateur engine-drivers. Mr. Mackinnon
is a brainy and likeable man, and is a good Democrat also,
but he doesn’t make the chips fly. He became wealthy
early in life, and is now indolent —not to say lazy.
Wealth is a curse to young men, and poverty is their best
friend. The poor man has to fight or go under, but the
rich young man rots in the manure-heap of his affluence
If Mackinnon were poor he would work more and would
have a halo of legal and political chips flying around his
head.
Dr. Roth has decided to cut adrift from
Queensland. Said on his side that interested
opposition has made his post of Protector of the
Aborigines almost intolerable ; and Minister Bell,
apparently acting under pressure, rather indi-
screetly told the Assembly last session that the
Govt, would consider the propriety of returning to
the system of aboriginal protection by the police.
This was a hint that Dr. Roth did not refuse to
notice. Some jealousy was manifested in Bris-
bane when the doctor went to W. A. to make the
inquiries upon which his recent report was based.
He felt this when he returned, and, putting two and
two together, decided to retire. Said that W.A.
Govt, is reaching out after his services.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s- 6d. per Day.
The Hotel is finely situateit,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running- day and nig-ht.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Gastlereagh-st., Sydney.
W ATSON’S WHISKY
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
FAUERES' PHOSPHATINE
A Valuable adjo.uct to Infantile Dietary.
T'arents who would rear Strong Ch ldren, and avoid
the troubles incidental to Teething should use it*
mm
mspmm m
FOOD FOR INFANTS & INVALIDS
to Oman uni 6 Booms., ,
Aboriginalities.
“K.W.” : Can beat that Denmark Mur-
ray-cod alleged record (B. 16/3/’O5). At Nyah,
near Swan Hill, "Vic., we caught one weighing
llßglbs. The local Bung—whose boat we had
“ borrowed ” to cross the river, and who comman-
deered the cod to square matters—can sub-
stantiate.
MISS UNIE RUSSELL (as “ Good Heeds” in the
old morality play, “ Everyman”).
Photo.—The Burlington Studio, Melbourne.
“ Ossian ”; At a N.S.W. country town,
recently, a 17-year-old girl, who was to be married
to an elderly man, when on the way to church
bolted away into the scrub, whereupon the intend-
ing bridegroom whipped off his coat and started in
pursuit. After an exciting chase, he returned
carrying the girl in his arms, and the ceremony
was then duly performed.
“Jay N.”: Re the “policeman fly”
(“Low,” B. 23/3/’O5). Have met some of him
along the Murray in summer-time, but did not
know he went arresting in battalions. The Murray
“John” is a little longer and slighter than the
common fly, and in legs and body lie’s like the
bee. Head, bullet-shape, set off with stumpy
“whiskers.” Wings fold squarely with end of
body. If you’re sitting in the shade, and flies are
pretty bad, he comes on duty immediately, and
when he spots a law-breaker he sneaks slowly
towards his victim, till near enough for a spring.
He never misses, and you next see the fly tucked
away amongst the John’s legs, and carried off to
the lock-up, which is a small hole drilled in the
ground. Every John has one to himself, and after
he has captured about a dozen flies he plugs the
hole up for good and retires from the force. Ad-
vise no one to interfere with the John fly when on
duty. He carries a red-hot baton in his trousers-
pocket, and if he uses it on you, you’ll quite
understand what happens to the fly.
• * • •»
“ Janor ” : Re “ policeman-fly ” (“ Low,”
B. 23/3/’O5). Another fly fly-catcher is known in
Queensland. He wears a green-and-gold uniform,
and makes his arrests in the air. Spotting the
victim, he poises for an instant; then flashes on
to him. Have never seen one miss. This fly’s
presence in a camp is made known by his distinc-
tive buzz.
* * * *
“C.C. ”: Don’t admire “Janor’s” taste
(B. l(>/3/’05) for the flesh of goanna—a creature
loathsome both in appearance and in carrion-feed-
ing proclivities. As for marsupial meat, many
bushmen (including myself) enjoy kangaroo,
wallaby, and kangaroo-rat as a change from
eternal beef and mutton, and no consideration of
“poverty, meanness, or love of beer” enters into
the matter. The contempt of some bush-dwellers
for our native game as food originated, I think, in
the fact that many of our early colonists were farm-
laborers, whose meat diet had been restricted to a
“collop” of fat bacon once a week, and upon
arrival here the fact that they could have butcher’s
meat three times a day excited their contempt for
the flesh of anything running wild. Doubtless
there are some people who, having tasted ill-
cooked marsupial meat, are honest in saying they
don’t like it; but most of those who sneer at the
eaters of our native game have never themselves
given it a fair trial, but base their opinion upon
the beef-proud prejudice handed down to them.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Xerxes ” : I once saw a hare fighting a
goanna that had seized on her leveret, which was
squealing like a baby. The hare kept jumping
smartly over the “go’s” back, each time giving a
vigorous, but unheeded, kick to the enemy with
her hind-legs. I came to the rescue, but too late
to save the little one.
“Booyong”: In the early ’7o’s
on the Richmond (N.S.W.) two brothers
took up a farm some distance up a
small creek. During a quarrel, Jimmy
slew his brother with a carving-knife.
It fell to the lot of Constable O’Blank
to arrest Jimmy. He did not relish
the job of interfering with a fratricidal
ruffian of Jimmy’s size, but the job
had to be done, and Policeman O’Blank
had to do it. He rowed up the creek
and called at the farm. “ Good morn-
ing, Jimmy,” he said affably. “This
is a bad misfortune ye’ve had, but ye
must bear up. I’ve instructions from
headquarthers above there to hould an
inquiry into the rnatther, and I’ll want
ye below at the town to give ividence.
Of coorse, it will oidy be, a mere rnatther
of foorm, as a poor man might do any-
thing in a fit of passion.” After much
palaver of this kind Jimmy and the
officer set sail for Woodburn. On arrival
the latter, with more soft speech, gra-
dually yarded Jimmy into the lock-up,
informing him that the inquiry would
be held in the morning, and he could
then go back. A cell door was stand-
ing open, and Jimmy was being be-
guiled past it more like a long-lost
brother than anything else, when a
vigorous kick deflected him inside, and
the door banged. And through the
grating came quite a different kind of
voice: “ There, you murthermg divil,
I’ll have you hung for that job sure
enough ! ” J iinmy got 15 years.
* * *
“5.A.0.”: “Smith”(B. 30/3/’O5)
forgot to mention that the ground-spider
lines the inside of his lid with strong
silk, and also provides a little catch,
to which, on the approach of an enemy,
he hangs on for all he is worth ; thus,
with the close fit of the door, keeping it secure
against the foe.
* » * *
“Kiro” : “ Torkin’about big feet,” said
Bill, “ I ’ad a mate wunst ’oo measured ’is in
yards. One day we come to ’er crick in flood.
‘Well, Tom,’ ses I, ‘well ’ave ter swim it.’
‘ Orright,' ses Tom. So ’e took orf ’is boots,
an’”- “Oh, I know,” interrupted Charlie—
“ ’E took orf ’is boots, an’ yer used ’em as boats 1”
“No,” said Bill, “ but he ’ “ Well, ’e turned
’em upside-down in ther crick, and made er bridge
uv ’em ! ” again interrupted Charlie. “ Garn ! ”
said Bill—“yer knows nuthin’ erbout it. ’E
took orf ’is boots, an’just swum ercross.” Then
Bill fled into the night, and another friendship
was broken.
» * * *
“ John P.”: Struck a backblocks fifty-
sixth rate grog-shanty in Maoriland, what time I
owned a thirst. It was one of those institutions
where it is not considered etiquette to ask if the
owner has ever seen a license. Proprietor and
his wife were in the bar in a state of intoxication.
I demanded a beer. “Ain’t got none,” was the
man’s lucid reply. I inquired after the whisky,
to be informed it had slipped its chain some time
before. “ What have you got ? ” I asked in
desperation. “’Alf a bottle er rum,” was the
reply, “an’ Maryan’ me’s goin’ ter booze that.”
Then the speaker fell down amongst the empty
bottles behind the bar.
* * * *
A Natimuk (Vic.) farmer has a trained
vixen which works sheep in company with a mate
—a dog. Said that the fox is docile and intelli-
gent, and obeys signals as smartly as the dog.
“Jimmy S.” : Noticeable that, with the
increased use of safety lamps in N.S.W. collieries,
and the consequent prohibition of smoking below,
tobacco-chewing is largely on the increase. Once
outside the mine, however, the quid is dropped
and the weed ascends in smoke.
NOT STIFF.
“ Chawley’s dead, I tell y’u.”
“ Yu' re a liar I'E ain't never bin dead in 'is life.”
“ Vyvyene ” : Re “ J.T.B.’s ” assertion
(B. 16/3/’O5) that baldness is unknown amongst
savages, unless they have worn hats. I have
known several baldheaded Papuans, who had
certainly never worn hats, and had no record of
disease. I think that baldness and grey hairs are
matters of constitution. Men leading a sedentary
life are, on an average, quite as hairy as men with
active out-door occupations ; and the alleged
increase of hair on a city man’s arms when the
sun gets at them is pure imagination. The fact is
that the hitherto unnoticed hairs are brought into
relief against the sunburnt skin.
* * * *
“ Bobrid ” : Looks as if Brer Fox isn’t so
mighty cunning, after all. Where all cover has
been removed he will occupy a rabbit-burrow ;
but his tenancy is advertised by the bones he
leaves scattered round his front-door.
* * * *
“Talking of mugs,” said “Paddy Mac,”
“ I know a fellow called Mugg, up the Towers (Q.)
way, that has been trying to get into the towm for
six years, and has never managed it yet. It s this
way : He’s working for old Thingamy, out on the
Clarke River road, and there’s
only one road from there to
the Towers, past old Blank’s
pub., and every six months
Mugg gets a cheque and a
week off and starts for the
town, and strikes the pub.
with a 20-mile thirst on him,
and the next thing he knows
is lie’s on his way back to
graft, with a sore head and a
small bottle. Last Christmas,
he said that he,would ‘dodge
’em this time,’ and took a
round-about track to escape
the hotel, but his bad luck
was right on top that day.
Bung was standing at the
door, and he caught sight of
Mugg branching oxf over the
rise. So he called Billy, a
bruiser, who was loafing round,
and offered him a quid if he’d
head-off Mugg, strike abarney
and have a fight. ‘ Don’t
knock him about; just a
woodener or two, and then
make friends, and ask him
back to have a wet. D’ye
understand?’ And, witlun
half-an-hour, Mugg was put-
ting a bit of meat on his black
eye, and getting screwed quick
and lively. ’
“Hub.” re honey mead as a tipple that
tips:—
Struck an up-country town in S. Australia one New
Year’s Eve. A little before midnight about 40 men and
yokels marched four-deep upon the Mayor to wish him
good-luck. He was a storekeeper, with a lot of cus-
tomers in the crowd, so refreshments were provided.
Thence the crowd wandered to each of the hotels, and
the liquor supply seemed inexhaustible. All hands were
singing psalms, and exhibiting marvellously clever sea-
manship in tacking from quarter to quarter. Some wag
Suggested a call on the police-trooper, and a move was
made his way. Said trooper was in bed (wise man), but
the din brought him out. It took him about five
seconds to decide how to restore the township’s peace.
Helped by half-a-dozen of the least excited, he ladled out
a liberal allowance of honey mead of his own manufac-
ture. Sweet to taste and very comforting to the
stomach, every one had two or three doses. In about
3Q minutes that town was as quiet as the grave. A few
reached home. Some sat down and tried to think it out,
but the majority did not move far. Before I rode away
next morning the leader of the Band of Hope in that
town wore a large smile : he had already received several
very penitent persons who wished to sign the pledge.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Said Coolibah
Charlie—“l wuz rattlin’ the fiv’orse coach along
one night on the
Menindie road
when I spots a
light ’bout 50
yards off th’
track. It wuz a
rummy place f’r
a cove ta camp
in, so I drew
over. Longley,
the trap, was
with me. We
found a traveller
Iyi n’ on his
blankit with his
feet towards th’
fire an’ his face
covered with a
nold dat. When
th’ coach pulled
up close to ’im I
expected ’im ta
sit tup, but ’e
never moved.
Longley jumped
down. ‘ Any
’arm tav a look
kat ya face,
matey?’ ‘Not a
bit! strike a
light, lift my hat,
and have a good,
square look.’
Longley struck a
match and had
a good look.
‘ Guess you must
be a bobby,
mate, by the way
you squint at
me. When you
have finished,
please put my hat
on my face again.’
‘ You’re a cool cus-
tomer, said Longley, a bit;
narked, puttin’ th’ hat care-
fully back again. ‘We thought
you wuz asleep or dead when th’
coach’s cornin’ did not make yer
sit up.’ The swaggie never moved,
but says he, ‘ Coaches! coaches !
Git tup tav a look kat a blanky
coach ! ! Why, there’s any lorsquan-
tity a coaches an’ all sorts a vehicles
where I come from—motor-cars down to
prams. Fancy sittin’ up, just when you’re
comfy, ta look kat a ramshackle old shanghai
crawling across a sandy desert ! Good-night.
Kiss th’ driver for me.’ Tell yer, he guv
me and the trap a bit of a start. No, Mister,
Longley didn't kiss me.”
* * * *
“Arp”: “Binga” (B. 16/3/’O5) smiles
because the Govt, values ringbarking at 3s. per
acre, whilst contractors do it for Is. Is “B. ’
aware that this ringbarking includes “suckering”
at a cost of at least 6d. per acre, which often has
to be done three or four times before the trees are
killed right out ?
* * * *
“Wongin”: Re, extinction of native
fauna. In Vic., at any rate, the laws of protection
and close season are little better than a farce, and
the lyre-bird and native bear especially are rapidly
disappearing from the bush. Every curio shop,
however, in or near Melbourne, is always well
supplied with the former’s tails, while koala and
’possum skins are hawked about the city streets
and offices by youngsters, and sold in great num-
bers, at a shilling apiece, for mats.
» * * •
A great white polar bear, which in youth
found its native Arctic Circle quite comfortable,
has been frozen to death in the Chicago Zoo,
where it had spent 24 winters.
RETRENCHMENT AT THE ZOO.
Sacrificing the family to keep the bailiff out.
A New South Wales squatter, writing
from Dandaloo, tells astronomer Lenehan that
the recent heavy rains have not only caused grass
to grow on the lambs’ backs, but even on the
bedding and furniture, swamped by a flood in
Bullock Creek.
“BUSTERS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Did you ever count the “ busters ” you have had ?
Some slight, and others bad ?
Do you ever now recall
Here and there a smashing fall
A« you chased them “ rather nasty,” dr bestrode them
“ green ” and j f oung ?
How often in the wrestle did you prove the weaker vessel,
Popped off, bucked off, slipped up and slung V
Did you ever count the times you hit the ground,—
With sometimes a rebound ?
Does your memory ever draw
Pictures of the stars you saw
When you dropped upon the clay-pan with a bone-distress-
ing bump,
When the hoofs above you flying whistled “ Whoop ! ’’
and left you lying,
And the kookaburra chuckled “ What a chump ! ”
Did you ever count the falls that you have got ?
Some earned, and others not?—
Oh ! a badly-buckled girth,
It may bring a man to earth,
And a rowel misdirected has been known to set a colt
Turning rapid catherine-wheels in a whirl of dust and
squeals,
While you grope in the confusion for a “ holt 1 ”
Did you ever count the “ purlers ” you have had
When the ground was “ rotten bad,”
Or your tumbles over wires,
Racing out to station fires ?
For a fellow’s seeking trouble when he doesn’t watch the
track,
And it follows if your eye’s on half-a-mile of red horizon
You can scarcely give attention to the footsteps of your
hack !
Count ’em over, all the “ busters ” you have had,
The slight ones, and the bad !
And I reckon you’ll recall
Many a smashing, crashing fall
In the days you rode ’em “ nasty ” and the days you
backed ’em young,
How in many a rugged wrestle you went down—the
weaker vessel—
Propped off, bucked off, slipped up and slung !
W.H.O.


The Salt that increases
Strength as well as
Seasons food is
From Grocers and Stores.
RE BO!
SALT
Wholesale Agents Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Eleven
Reasons
Why we Sell so many Rings.
1. We are the actual makers,
2. We make them in our own workshops.
3. We buy the penis in the rough.
4. We cut the gems.
5. We save all intermediate profits.
6. We are Ring Setters.
Opal & Diamonds,
18ct. Gold Settings,
£5 ss.
aa
3 Choice Pearls, 2
Diamonds, 2 Turquoises,
£3 3s.
7. We only make 18ct. Gem Rings.
8. We are gem exporters.
in' w 6 can 7 a ' ar ?W stock of unset stones.
10. We receive them direct from the mines.
11. We sell at London Prices.
Specially-selected
Diamonds, 18ct. Gold
Setting, our own
make, £lB 18s.
Or 4 Choice Whole
Pearls and 1 Centre
Tourmaline, £4 4s.
London Prices
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
A STAUNCH ROMAN.
“ I say, Flynn, that dory o’ yours don’t take
much notice o’ that tramp. I theught ’e 'ad a set on
strangers.”
Sure, so he has; but to-day’s Friday, d'ye sec, an’ it's ay in his religion
to ate mate of a Friday.”
“Bax”: “Drifter” (B. 16/3/’O5) is
mighty scornful of the “cranks” who observe and
record the doings of ants. But let him go to
“graft’’ out-back, and he’ll get interested when
She’s ringbarking, and has to. shed his pants and
race for the creek to drown the bull-ants that have
got to work upon his legs; or when he’s scrub-
cutting, and has to race for the creek again (shirt
off this time) to rid himself of the big “greenies”
that have fastened to his spine ; or when, at crib
time, he goes to where he planted his tucker
bag out of. reach of the kookaburra and the bush-
rat, and finds the “stinker-ants” in possession;
■or when he gets home and sees the long white line
made by his sugar walking off, and has to dig it
out half-a-mile away from camp; or when he
borrows Hogan’s horse and cart, and leaves the
moke standing by a meat-ant’s nest while he puts
up the slip-rails—and the repairs cost him a tenner.
“Drifter” will then probably take to experiment-
ing with boiling-water, kerosene, bisulphide,
arsenic, and the final desperation of “digging-
out.” And when he’s dead-licked he’ll understand
why old Solomon included an aboriginalities item
in his philosophical observations.
* * * *
“ Davrich ” : Many bushmen put in all
their spare time making ants fight. They bet
high on their formical representatives, too ; and
will often go miles to find a warrior of a particular
species to pit against a mate’s selection from
another nest.
“C.H.R.” : Be “Janor” on bark
roofs (B. 2/3/'O5). L presume an auger was
intended to be used ; but that implement is
siot generally included in a bush man's kit
unless he is out for timber alone. Have
built a good roof bv laying a heavy log on
e ich side about a foot from the eaves, con-
necting them by strong b inds of wattle-bark,
or fencing-wire, running over the saddle-
piece. This method does away with
“riders,” and such a roof lasts easily 12
months. In man-fern country I have used
the fern trunks as ‘‘jockeys” and “riders,’
securing them by pegs, no auger, of course,
being needed. Have also seen bark roofs
“anchored ” by half-a-dozen pairs of large
Stones slung across the saddle by means of
rope .©r wire. There is also a very common
bark humpy without walls. Eight-feet
sheets give a good spread, and when the
•ends are barked up you might get a worse
•camp. A couple of strong forks and a ridge-
pole make a better job of it. This variety
•of mansion is apt to shrink in a month or
two. And when a bark roof curls it is time
to roll up or strip more roof material.
* <* » 0
“Janus” : Considine had often told
me that his big dog, Brian, was a good
Romanyesterday he proved it. Brian
was lying asleep at the back of the kitchen
•chimney when his owner called oat “ Dill
Macky !” The good Roman sprang up with
a ferocious “ Wouf !'” “Dill Macky, Brian,”
said Considine again. This 'time Brian
leaped five feet into the air, whirling round
three times in quest of a victim. His ej;e
lit on a yellow tom-cat, whom a lightning
■sprint and a convenient gum-tree barely
■saved from martyrdom. Considine was
about to say “Dill Macky” a third time
when I stopped him. I never was good at
•tree-climbing.
“K.”: How an old Gippsland (Vic.)
fern-cutter solves the scarcity-of-reading-matter
problem. Gets a paper only once in a couple of
months ; tears it across the middle and burns the
bottom-half. Then studies the mutilated items,
a*id amuses himself by completing them to his
•oyvn satisfaction. Says the mental exercise keeps
ihim from thinking himself into dottiness.
“P.X.”: Recently sampled camel’s milk,
and found it Tvil»t»l>T» +i . , j
u". P‘ datable enou f h - thnu & h saltish and
Wlth a histe of Bitter almonds m it. Am told that
’ n As M l (be milk is regularly used, though, for a
start, it is purgative. The Australian camel-men,
when they trouble about milk at all, goto goats
b )r
* * * *
“G. 8.” : Concerning “F.E.P W V’ state-
nient about the crueltv of the A 1 ' i
fish ’ Sffefe th
sticklebacks, on whose spines he was accustomed
]n my school days, to fix sidelong corks which
kept the fish on the surface like a miniature
paddle-boat. And the British seamen has lZ
had the cruel habit of wedging thX pins in h!
mouths of captured sharks ere turning then, dr
to drown. Of course, though, one act of cruelty
does not condone another.
r ** ” *
“ The Waster’s ” lie :
Struck something unique in the wav of cooks recentlv
while travelling with horses from Conrlobolin to Junee.’
Tucker cart broke down ; but, as it chanced, our cook had
P l l .,( ut " ed 1 0u .* / a da,n P e r of immense size and wondrous
solidity, so, being of an inventive turn of mind I moriiced
a “ liox ” in the centre, put it on for a wheel, and drove
19 miles into Wyalong. Got the wheel fixed and returned
ca J n l ) without a mark on the damper, but as I had pro-
pul'ed some loaves in town in case of accidents, it was left
! n oaln P untouched. That was three months ago, but
“(rf T , Str , ll0 £ k the same old damper doing duty as the
off-fiont wheel of a bullock w aggon at Cobar.
NOT TO BE CAUGHT.
BILL (down for holidays): “ Eve heard tell of
these city folks takin' in country fellers, hut
I never thought they'd advertise it.”
“Walrick”: Never before was N.S.W.
outback so plagued with mice as recently. The
freshly-sown corn was promptly devoured ; the
Chow gardener finds his tomatoes, peaches,
pumpkins, and even his potatoes, full of mouse-
holes and nests: and the cookies’ stacks are
spoiled by the mouse’s road-building and tunnel-
making.
“Drifter” : To “Ginger” (B. 16/3/’O5).
Chewing cordite will not raise a high tempera-
ture—although it might make a man look sick
enough for anything ; but inhaling enough of the
fumes of lighted cordite would certainly make a
man pretty bad. Frequently, on long treks,
matches being very scarce, men would get a
“Liverpool light” from a comrade’s pipe by
means of a few strands of cordite taken from a
cartridge, and the fumes thus inhaled frequently
caused a high temperature, which doctors diag-
nosed as fever. I have known men to render
themselves unfit for duty by an overdose of fumes.
Other malingering dodges : Fating the hard grain
of mealies, which caused dysentery. Feigning
severe sciatica or rheumatics. Feigning insanity
- successful in the case of one trooper. Occasional
cases occurred also of self-shooting through fleshy
part of limb or body. Have also heard of holding
the mind above stone sangars over which the
enemy’s bullets were pattering, in hopes of getting
* * » *
“Argo”: Be cordite chewing (“D.H.R.,”
B. l()/3/’351 r Returned cohentingenter assures
rne that the stuff was chewed by soldiers for the
purpose mentioned. Also, that cordite-sticks,
taken from a cartridge, were used in lieu of
matches to light pipes, etc. The inhalation of
cordite fumes had even worse effects than the
chewing.
* * * *
“ Grenade ” : I have sucked (not chewed)
cordite. Result, a bad drunk and a frightful
headache next morning. “ Tommies ”in S’Africa
sucked cordite for a cheap intoxication. Never
heard of the stuff being used to increase bodily
temperature, and don’t think the dodge would
work after the first few cases.
* * * *
“ Timbarra ” : To “ Hodge ” (B. 23/3/’O5).
There’s no puzzle about how mallee-hen chicks get
out of the “nest.” When making the nest the
two old birds (not several) scrape out a slight
hollow, which is filled to above the ground level
with scraps of bark, leaves, and grass. A depres-
sion is then made in this stuff, and a mound of
sand raised right round. When the rain has
thoroughly soaked into the inside . stuff, the sand
is spread over this and the nest left until it be-
comes heated. The hen bird then opens up the
mound to w.thin about two inches of the vegeta-
tion, deposits an egg at the outer edge, and
replaces the sand. About three days later
another egg is laid, opposite to the first and
at the same level; and so on, till the bottom
tier of four or five eggs is complete. The next
tier is started about 2in. above the lower, each
egg being placed over a blank in the tier below.
Same with third tier, if there is one. The bottom
eggs hatch long before those on top, and the
chicks, being strong and active, easily work their
way up through the loose sand to daylight.
“ Hodge ” errs in saying that the old birds never
go near the nest after the laying period is over.
Every morning they open up the nest slightly to
prevent the sand setting firm ; and I have seen
chicks pop out at the same time.
* * * *
“H.J.L.”: Be escape of mallee-chicks
from “nest” (“ Hodge,” B. 23/3/’O5). The meg-
npodes up here in N.Q. raise mounds sometimes
12ft. high, and the lower layers of chicks work
out laterally from the place of hatching.
* * ■* *
“D.H.R.” : I have not seen the emu’s
wonderful vitality mentioned. A man I know
fired at one, aimjng at the head, but the bullet
hit the pit of the stomach, and, travelling up to
the junction of the neck, cut the bird clean open.
The entrails fell out, were severed by the bird’s
foot, and the emu fled, insideless. We ran him,
on horseback, miles into thick scrub, and lost
him. He was found dead, five miles away, next
day. Presumably, he died of starvation. Also, I
have known a pet emu to swallow enough strych-
nine to kill 17 men, yet the bird lived for two
days.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A T o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, whether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Rebo : England gives naval protection to Aus-
tralian trade for her own purposes. It pays her well to
do sp ; the Australian State Governments owe England
some £190,000,000, to say nothing of the private inbebted-
ness of citizens. In the beginning, John Bull used this
country as his rubbish heap, and' never worried about it
until one day he found a huge pumpkin growing from the
heap of manure. Then he reached out and remarked
that the pumpkin was his pumpkin... .Q. : Two lines:
How oft we sat, with the dark leaves for sky,
Watching, with lips enjoined, the untiring sea.
A pair of squint-eyed lovers, evidently ! You have some
notions of verse, but need to prune and trim a deal....
C.B. : Verses on the death of the Devil would probably
nearly kill that gentleman if they could be brought under
his notice.... Ay tee : We’re tired of poets who “dear
God ” on slight provocation Filius Crucis: Why
crucify us with 480 lines of bad verse on an uninteresting
subject?... .S.N.R.. Sorrows of the ’bus horse have been
better put before.... A. W. E. : But you don’t go any
further than the Bulletix went, though you use a fear-
some quantity of words. “ Australian interests to come
first always in every relation ” covers all the ground you
got over.... San Remo: Sydney Town Hall"people are
not right in charging a higher price to higher grade
shows. The value of the service rendered, not the ability
of the served to pay, should be the measure of charge.
The first is honesty*, the second is the Asiatic system of
trade—“ Charge as much as you can get.”....
Alma : If you “ can do much b tter,” then send the much
better stuff along. We don’t want a man’s second best.
W.G.H. : Pathetic poem on a dirty shirt disrespect-
fully* declined The Page: Verse not worth a line •
story worth a cheque (which sent) Hermit: No, not
hopeless. But “ First Cham.” is very weak Inquirer *
Approximate population of Sydney is 514,750 ; Melbourne]
483,684. Former are included in city and suburban
municipalities embracing: 142'5 sq. miles; latter in
255 sq. miles—within a 10-miles’ radius of Melb. G.P.O.
Wombat: Have you no fresher themes in your
burrow? Versification good, but ideas aged....Eiram :
Spasmodic..A.H.O. : For a first attempt .you essay the
steepest hill in Parnassus—to say something fresh about
woman’s character... .J.P.C. : You versify with fatal
fluency on themes that have been long ago exhausted....
H.H. : Hairless (we have to say bald so often)... .R.B.R. :
“After’’shows some promise R.M.G. : One tremblesin
the balance... .T.W.: If the penalty of acceptingyour copy
is to be praised in an “ ode,” reckon that, for the future,
your poems will have a hurdle oi two to jump before they
getin —A.M. : “ Kent ” aprett; gfr'y yarn, but hardly in
our line... .Bov. :If we printed t,..., we’d have to disinfect
the whole issue.. ..J.M.P. : Pretty but commonplace....
M.M.8.: Hoax hardly worth space... .G.F.8.: Rhymes in
your “ Friendship ” are not a bit friendly, and quarrel in
every stanza... .Yan.: Too long and too loose W.A.8.:
Your editor-friend basely deceived you, judging by the
sample you send, which has most of the qualities that
ensure rejection by The Bulletin H.R.Mc.: That sort
of thing has sunk down to the level of being used as an
illustrated ballad A.L. :We pay for all we print, but
yours not suitable for print.. -. .C.L.R. : (l) “Ballad of
Drink ” isn’t a ballad, and isn’t refreshing. (2) Can’t
rhyme “leaves” and “ sanctuaries”... .E. Knight: Only
3rd class Oblong : Not well enough rounded
Nick Jr.: Very faulty as verse Vulgar Boy : You have
more humor than skill... ,O’K. : Well written, but lacks
point.... Balmoral : Neither good enough... .Mars :
Funny, but far-fetched.. .. A. W.B.N. (Capetown): Thanks,
but we get enough of the “ semi-matrimonial ” ad. in Aus-
tralia, and have no space to collect S’African specimens.
. ...Meb: Yes, but it would be still harder for “the man
on the land ” if the State didn’t insist on thistle, and
vermin, and codlin moth destruction, and appoint
inspectors to see that the work is done. The man who
won’t destroy pests would soon make it impossible for
anybody else to hold land in his neighborhood....
Dan H. : Why write from New Guinea to an Australian
paper about the wrongs of a foreign land ? We’ve enough
of Australian wrongs to worry about R.M.E. : Not up
by 1 mile 3 furlongs E. 11.8. :No favorable criticism
this time M. Corm : Don’t care for “Flower.”
You’re more oratorical than poetic Lucid: It
isn’t... .O.T.J.L. : No antagonism in the matter. Simply
a case of doesn’t suit... .Dave It. : “Recent issue” won’t
do. Must give precise date Non-Sympathiser: In
short, you’re sweated, and therefore you see no reason
others shouldn’t be sweated. Better try a little of the
Socialistic spirit for your complaint Unsuitable : M.N.,
Tax, A.11.T., Leontine, Touchstone, Hal, N.G., Will,
0.5., M.E.P., R. 8., R.R., Dominus, St, Clare, Orthos,
Obi, Cyril V., Jarrah.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. Hess : Some promise, but not good enough perform-
ance as yet P.S. : Gags heavy and pictures too
weak to carry ’em... .Jonas :No hope showing as yet....
A. 8.: Suggestions are paid for on acceptance. There is
no need to send with them any drawings at all Walter
V.: Promising, but not up J.E.F.: Drawings not up ;
will pay for two as suggestions Unsuitable: W.D.,
David A., Geo. 8., J.H.B. (Wonga), Bushboy.
Maxim Gorki declares that the St. Peters-
burg massacre, more than it killed men, killed the
prestige of the autocracy.
HOT FROM THE PRESS.
"’Ere y’are, sir, extry speshul-colored supple-
ment o’ th ’ Rook of York’s boil.”
“ Molasses ” : When I hear fellows grum-
bling that they can’t keep Kanakas civil, I advise
them to take a leaf out of the book which Paddy
Hogan read on old Mac’s plantation :—•
Old Mac’s Kanakas had just chased their overseer
home from the paddock. They were half-cannibal
Solomon boys—and they wanted no white man looking
after them. So there was nothing to be done but to pay
the man his wages ; he would: not stop another day.
Mac advertised, but no one’ applied for the job. The
reputation of Mac’s Kanakas had got abroad, and nobody
cared to be mobbed by niggers once a week or so, for the
sake of 30s. and tucker. In fact, Mac would have had to
look after them himself if Bob Brown, of the adjoining
plantation, hadn’t brought along a man who was willing
to tackle the job at £2 a week. Mac. groaned, but had to
give him a trial.
Paddy, the new man, wanted to know what was his
exact status. “ Nigger-driver, of course,” said Mac.
11 That be damned I” said Paddy. “ ’Polynesian superin-
tendent,’and camp with the jaekeroos.” “All right,”
said Mac., “anything you please, so long as you make
the black devils work.”
Next morning Paddy took out his mob of fifty boys.
Some of them were put to grubbing trees and the
remainder to fencing, and things went all right. One bov
took it into his head to have a change of work. “Me no
more makeum fence,” he said. “ Come back and make
your post-holes,” yelled Paddy. “What name?’’roared
the Kanaka. “ You wantum fight ? ” All the others had
gathered round yelling, but Paddy suddenly swung
around a rammer he had in his hand, landed the nigger
on the head, and stiffened him. Then Paddy stepped
up to the next one. “You wantum fight?” he
said, and before the Kanaka could answer round came
the rammer, and down he went. Then over
went a third, but before Paddy could reach another
the lot were in full flight for the mill. Paddy followed,
t°H ncl fchein jabbering, all around the boss. “ Boss,
this fella man all same devil. Boy talk along him, he kill
him finish. Suppose this fella man stop, he killum
all together boy. But the boss sympathised only with his
whip-handle ; and, between him and Paddy, the mutineers
were soon driven back to work.
. 1)1 a week’s time Paddy had them as mild as lambs, but
lna couple of months’time he left, because he wksn’t
a so W6 l ?,n? P l y^ 6 ra «?mer-treatment to the jaekeroos
also In fact, Paddy had become so much too large for
his feet-boxes that in another month he would have
insisted on the right to wallop Mac himself.


//JF LAST TA/R .
4 /i ■
i! v p\
pf '-^Py
d* 7
£4*
rftuijxiXc / :
sC^X-
A^A w^.
I s\a _
L_y Qd-tb\~ a.
-4r AftuAr ■
*
,/"? 'f« r &- <••»?„ i
& l ii*" ~-A
.»- -: ■ / A> Y ‘V ' I
'/ jj
I
-, c; ..^
frqMT^
mrfK IPS
/ 3a£-e> -v>~£ -J .• fl
'
■-& I
yk'S&ttd/A..#,-
ov/? Bisr/pri/L //Tfrfß oM 'C , ,/
<g?jt jC &u\. jt&XyZtl, 1
-~ ~ *%*.**£ ‘ , . ;
'-%'£s &Au/y _ <£y&i7-K$ <Cc~ &-&&. /%jL
yp/i'
-7-// £T
jrJ
Wz * V
/
/
*<W
4c*ssx.
$ /
'
7*< (<&'
Mh S
/H 1
i
* % T*fl***f}& \
/JtM'fJ - *'
'DfcAivT) By
/Jofi’s OMJ?£i^Tudy
ADVERTISING AUSTRALIA.
It is proposed to imitate the example of Maoriland by issuing a series of postal cards for advertising the country.
“Hop.’s" Understudy submits a few designs.


jjinncr of *v\
fr«imn *lO6
roof *» * y '*'s r °f
se>/c»* ■f’Wf
:~ "Mi! my m*n,c*n you see -tfe enemy ? '
Prlrote. :-■ Ho! M-lt*. feel him!
rt*7 '» *• ««■»-,
%e C «»Uy Hf" r 3 „'<
mess 1 fix
/". X
ht ?
TooJl T?kil
3 "i
fA m t*
<r J<>hderx>
been
3ecured
rv,cns r f +,on^
V
# * £ te v
ilVf less C°S r M"
Usr 7«v "
'*se
Jones t««r fooKm^
mirror) — ! • S of p»
b,<> -%>n \<> ,r i 1 d^7 s •
' /*K Mo1 in-/
°%e R*«K&-Fil<? : - Increase ° Jr
to P€C|fr>>.' }>«•*>+ -f»*« ®r
we'll SheoT If
u;k ov \ee\, .
coU K k 'f ’
0 U bools beef- bones ,
ea'-bles ß w«r-« %ov/« To
'troops AcJoureA
A forced
(f<m«a *
“LITTLE MARY” IN CAMP.


Some Elephants and Fitzgerald's
Circus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elephants i »
“Yes,” said Mr. Dan Fitzgerald, of
tlie well-known firm of Circus pro-
prietors, to our representative, who saw him in
his tent in Auckland, Maoriland. “We are going
nap on Elephants for our next Australian season,
which will begin in Sydney at Easter coming. I
had a wire from my brother Tom, in Calcutta last
December, which said:—
Have sent ten beautiful young Burmah elephants bv
steamer Cooeyanna, to arrive in Melbourne Feb. 6 1905
Weatherly in charge.
As you have no doubt seen by the press, they
Dan Fitzgerald.
nave arrived, or at least
eight of them have, and are
now being trained in our
permanent building in Mel-
bourne. The description of
them as beauties is all right,
if the photos don’t lie. No,
I have not seen the babies
myself yet, but I am satisfied
that they will be the biggest
attraction we have given the
public of Australia.
“We attach special im-
portance to the elephant
tribe, and so do the public,
which is the main considera-
tion. They are supernatur-
ally sagacious, kindly, free
from vices, and there is no
risk to the public in exhi-
biting them, or to a careful
w , ~ trainer in handling them.
We don t run risky acts. We don’t consider
them lucky.”
.. '‘ Y ™. don ’ fc mean *0 say that you’re supersti-
tious . inquired our representative.
Well, it’s better to confess it at once,” replied
-IJan ; “all showmen and sailors are. Where you
lead an adventurous and changeful life, you are
constantly meeting coincidences. If you were to
put up an umbrella in our tent on a fine day, my
brother Tom would probably try to give you a
practical illustration of ‘Sumo’ wrestling-. Ex-
perience has shown us that misfortunes run in
sequences of three. * Bad beginning, good ending,’
has worked out well with -us; and I am afraid
lorn sometimes tries to assist Fate in connection
with this saying. On the opening night of a
season no deadhead is. allowed to remain in the
tent before the show is opened, and this applies
even to our dearest friends, who must go out and'
remain till a ‘ paying guest ’ has been admitted.
J hen neither my brother nor myself would sleep
£ N °; I : 3 . l '^ m in a shi P a hotel if you gave us
the Waihi Mine, and neither of us could be got to
walk under a ladder-especially if there is a heavy
man on top with a paint pot—for worlds.
“Instances.! Well, when we were running a
waggon show (ah happy, rollicking careless times !)
we set out once from, Sydney with 20 beautiful,
spick and span, brightlyipainted waggons No 13
wag driven by an experienced and sober man. He
fell asleep in broad daylight, and tumbled off into
thp road, when two waggon wheels ran over him
and broke Ins leg. There was luck ! At the next
town the new driver, one of the performers, let
the horses run away down a hill, the brake-
wouldn t act, the horses tried to climb a telegraph
pole outside the principal hotel, and the waggon
turned a round off, flip-flap, back and forward
somersaults, and landed on the railway line in a
coal truck. There was luck ! We then entrusted
the waggon (after repairs) to Mick Jones, the
clown, one of our most trusted sub-managers He
drove it carefully and successfully through exactly
12 towns, and m the 13th he got a wire to say
that his wife had had twins on the 13th of that
month We then had the figure 3 laboriously
painted out, and from that moment nothing ever
happened either to the waggon itself, or to the
iamilies of the drivers thereof.
“But, as you say, that is off the track of ele-
phants Well, elephants are lucky. Anyway,
it s lucky to have them. We are lucky to have
landed eight, which, I believe, is the largest
number of elephants ever landed in Australia
even by the big American visiting circuses To
get them my brother had to go to Keddah, in
Burmah, then he had to get them from the Govern-
ment elephant preserves, bring them by train to
Ban goon (a three days’ journey), ship them to
Calcutta, and then, after exhibiting them there
for ten days, send them to Australia, and take all
risks. There is no doubt they are a supreme
attraction in a circus. Moreover, they are un-
canny beasts. Consider their antiquity We have
a Japanese boy with our Sumo wrestlers who can
trace his descent in a direct line for 1000 years in
a family of hereditary wrestlers. But what is his
family beside the geological antiquity of ele-
phants! 1
Although we have owned elephants for years,'
the profound thoughts I have recited above never
occurred to me until one day Randolph Bedford,
Edmund Fisher, Teague, Dr. IVlaloney, George
Upward, and Alf. Vincent walked into the mena-
gerie of our Melbourne building. Lizzie, the
Hagenbeck elephant, was there, throwing straw
over her back contemplatively, while keeping a
furtive eye out for apples. Bedford went up to
the beast, and, looking her full in the face, said
something like this
You great, unwieldy, intelligent brute, sur-
vivor of a remote geological past, where are your
companions of yore ? You stand there munching
bananas as if you had done nothing at all remark-
able in getting into the twentieth century and
into this circus. Where are your contemporaries
of the dead ages? Where are the Megalosaurus,
the Tapirus, the Paleotherium, the Dinotherium ?
Where are the Pterodactyl and the Mastodon ?
Have you any explanation to offer for the absence
of the Mammoth, or the Behemoth? All gone.
You alone had the superior brain tissue and
adaptiveness which have brought you down to
this circus from remote antedeluvian ages and
enabled you to evade the fate of your cronies of
the glacial and mud periods. What were the
secrets of the Old Red Sandstone ? ’
“Just then Lizzie reached out her trunk and
snapped an apple from Edmund Fisher’s hand.
1 urning slowly away, Bedford said with a sigh :
‘lt’3 very sad, boys; come and have a drink.’
Since then the true inwardness of elephants has
come home to me, and my interest has doubled.
Mind, I don’t profess to give Bedford’s exact
words this is but a feeble echo of them, and,
besides, if I give them all, your sub. mightn’t
print them.
“My brother, Toro, is in India He is there
with one of our companies. Last June, instead
of—as was our custom—disbanding our old com-
pany when the new company arrived from
Europe, we decided to try the experiment of
taking the old company on to new territory. It
THE JAPANESE WRESTLERS
(AT FITZGERALDS' CIRCUS, BELMORE PARK, SYDNEY).
was too good to disband, though the acts were a
bit stale in Australia and Maoriland. The people
here crave for novelty, and you must give it if you
want to keep abreast of the times. So Tom took
the company out with a view to easting the East.
He did, by the way, German and Australian New
Guinea, Thursday Island, Banda, Ceram, and
Amboina, in the Molluccas, Macassar (of Byron’s
Thine incomparable oil, Macassar ”) in Celebes.
At Macassar there was such a rush for seats that
the military had to be called out to restore order.
Probably the cry was ‘ Panem et circenses !’, or
its Dutch or Malay equivalent.
“From Macassar, Tom went to Java, which he
describes as a ‘most beautiful, fertile, and pros-
perous ’of islands. He did all the principal towns,
and made many friends. Evidently he has had a
good time. He has met all sorts of swells whose
titles make me dizzy to read them. In one letter
lie says, quite off-handedly : ‘One of the finest
men I ever met was the Crown Prince of
innt v' Wh ° attended the cir cus with about
o his brothers ; and another charming man
was the Sultan of Sulu.’ Just as I might say
here, in mild boastfulness, what fine fellows
Seddon and Ward, Jimmy Carrol and Hone
Heke were, or on the Australian side, I might
mention the merits of Bartori, L. Hop., Reid,
Crick, George Upward, or Victor Daley. From
a manager’s point of view, large families are to be
commended, and there does not appear to be
anything wrong with the birthrate in the East.
I am sorry for my brother’s sake that the Crown
I rince only brought 100 of his brothers to the
show. I hope he brings them all next time —and
fills up the tent with them.
“Our Australian season-? Oh, yes. That
begins in Sydney on April 15th in Belmore
lark, when we think we will have the finest
snow we have ever imported. There are the
elephants, to begin with. They will interest the
few remaining youngsters the declining birthrate
has left on the Continent. Yes, the declining
birthrate is a serious matter for us. Success in
circus business is largely an affair of birthrate,
rso children; no circus. They are onr best
advertisers, and maybe relied on to see that the
parents are properly informed as to the wonders
of our ‘huge moving caravan.-’ Then we have
new importations from Europe, the principal
being the great i lerbert troupe of aerial trapezists,
ladies and gentlemen.
Ihe last time I saw this troupe was with
Ij irnuin, in the U.S.A. We would have liked to
import them then., but they had engagements
years ahead, and we had to wait our turn. The
leader, Ihomas Herbert, was formerly a partner
of mine, when he was a mere boy. He was a
model of industry, and, when the circus arrived in
town, instead of having a good time like the
others, he would be found practising a foot-
balancing act, or juggling, or wire-walking. He
reaps the benefit now, as he is one of the largest
salaried artists in the world.
“We have also a surprise in the shape of the
clever Australian Ashton family (third generation
of Australian circus performers), who have been
running circuses in various remote and unfre-
quented parts of Australia from time immemorial.
Ihe new generation girls, Ethel, Kate and Ada,
are stars of the trapeze, and they are all reckless
horsewomen—as only Australians can be. They
have never before appeared in the capitals. Then
there is Amy St. Leon, another third generation
representative of an old circus family, and a daring
and graceful rider.
The Japanese Sumo Wrestlers will be another
great attraction. ‘Sumo’ is the national sport
of Japan—as football is of Maoriland, cricket of
Australia, or bullfighting of Spain. They are
organised into guilds, something like the Roman
gladiators. Ihe six we have engaged are trick or
fancy wrestlers, mainly for show purposes ; though
j r them—viz., Otokojima, Onenoko, Takanoya
ancl Maruyama—can hold their own with all-
comers at their own style of sport—which consists
of fair throwing, or pushing out of the ring by
strength or skill. There is no scrambling on the
ground. Their skill is amazing. There are no
less than 168 trick throws and holds. My brother
saw 300 men aside, representing the great Tokio
a i n u ( ' ull<l ' s ’ WI- estle for a week at Moji
All the champions were present, including Wao- 0 -
shima (last year’s champion of all Japan),
Hitachiyama M u mega tan i (the fat wrestlers of
the lokio Guild), and Taiho (of the Osaka Guild
f, man , f,ft - 4lrl -> splendidly proportioned, who won
the championship that meeting, defeating all
comers. One of our men, Onenoko, was the
favorite trick wrestler of Japan. All the quaint
ceremonials of the guilds are reproduced in our
ring, including the installation of the champion in
his gorgeous ceremonial apron, sword, etc., and
rice straw belt.
Are they in earnest ? Well, come and see for
yourself. When they first arrived, Takanoya was
tho acknowledged champion, but the others com ■
menced to have their doubts. I may say that
their doubts are still unresolved, though Otoko-
jima can generally be depended upon to win when
he is in good trim. . He has to tussle for it every
time. The championship is no sinecure, as the
professional pride of the men seems to animate
J* lem to their best. Every night, therefore,
the champion is tackled by one or another of the
big men, and has to struggle with all his might.
Sometimes he is beaten, but he generally regains
the supremacy. But the trick wrestling is superb.
You must see them to understand the qu lintness
of it all.
11 The difficulties to be overcome in getting them
to Australia were enormous ; but we were assisted
by three gentlemen, who finally succeeded in over-
coming obstacles—viz., Mr. Kitamuru, a well-
known bydney merchant, who was then in Japan ;
Mr. Okuda Benjiro, the largest circus proprietor
in Japan ; and Mr. Asahiyami, the itch i-Ban (or
manager) of the Osaka
Guild of Wrestlers. To
these three gentlemen
the Australian public owe
the privilege they enjoy
of having seen the first
professional team of
wrestlers that ever left
Japan. An idea of the
difficulty will be perceived
from the fact that each
man engaged has to re-
turn to his native pro-
vince and obtain a permit
to travel abroad from the
Governor of that pro-
vince. Then the ceremo-
nial costumes had to be
made. These are costly
and artistic, consisting
of richly - embroidered
aprons, hand-made —quite
works of art.
“Yes. The circus, as
we now run it, is a very
costly affair. The actual
running expenses daily
of each of the shows are
close upon £100; and as
Tom Fitzgerald.
for the cost of transport, you must inquire of the
otate Railway Commissioners and the shipping
companies. In the old days, when we ran a
waggon show, we actually pocketed more money ;
but there is no turning back now. Fate has made
us the big Australian show, and we can only
accept the burden with the best grace.
• , As to °ur future plans : They are somewhat
indefinite, in view of the experiments we are now
trying. If the Eastern venture turns out the
success it promises to be, we shall probably send
out a oompany every year. At the conclusion of
his Eastern tour, my brother will disband his
company and go to Europe to choose a fresh com-
pany, while I will probably take our present com-
pany on to the East. The one of us will always
be touring Australia and Maoriland with the best
people we can procure in Europe and the United
States, while the other will be out on the Eastern
track.
“Each of our companies is a fully-equipped,
self-contained circus and menagerie. Each in it-
self is vastly larger than any other show in the
.Southern Hemisphere. Both combined would be
as big as Barnum’s. But we should be bankrupt
m six months if we ran a show like that. You
can only successfully run a show that size in a
country like America, where they are catering for
70 millions of people with a large birthrate,
and have fifty large cities to every one
out here. We are often amused at criti-
cisms in some small towns, to the effoct
that we don’t bring all the show with us to
such towns. As a matter of fact we bring the
show, the whole show and nothing but the show—
every stick is carried round with us, and the
performance is as complete in Ngharawabia,
Waimate, in Cootamundra, Belong, or Bairns-
** ’ 3 ln Sydney, Melbourne, Auckland,
Wellington, Brisbane, Adelaide, Batavia, or
Calcutta. The only difference is that with the
variation of the population the size of the tent
varies. In small towns we put up a round-top;
in large cities we have to put up big tents with
huge middlepieces, in order to accommodate the
enormous crowds. In the former we may have to
accommodate GOO people ;in the latter GOOO. The
show is just the same, and the audience gets as
much for its money in the smallest town we open
in as it does in a city of a million inhabitants.
Yes, I have been reading about the wonderful
Hans, and have been struck by the fact that all he
does was done by our Mahommed, * the talking
horse, he was called. We brought him out
with our first European company. He was trained
by Probasco, a Mexican (who, by the way, is now
a prosperous carriage-owner in Manila). Mahoiii-
med could do all the tricks now alleged to be done
hy Hans. Yes, Hans must be a very clever horse
—whatever theory you may have as to the way it s
done. How is it done? Well, wild horses won’t
«rag the secret from me. So there ! I worked
Mahommed myself for several years after Probasco
left us. He was an amazingly clever horse. He
dropped dead suddenly— want of exercise? No !
—Not brain-fag !—I don’t think.
“Ihe attraction, I think, of the Easter season
will be the Herbert Troupe of HCrial Gymnasts.
It is said that they require a perfect network of
wires in the dome of the huge new tent; and their
swings and catches are phenomenally daring. In
connection with this troupe, besides the ladies
(“all of whom are beauties”) there is “Aerie,”
who is the only performer in the world who can
stand on a swinging-trapeze bir without touching
the ropes with his hands. This act is unique.
Then the young ladies give a flying performance
with Roman rings, said to be thrilling.
‘‘ And that is all—except the elephants. But I
think I mentioned them before.”
And we parted company.
LOCUST.


■
A
t-.-
—~
m *
“•’ri?
\
%
/
"
i; v
$
■■m
mi
When ordering, please send measure-
ments, and also cut out and quote
number of costume selected
F. & CO.,
Sydney.
m
mr'" *
TO
m
No. I— Up-to-date Norfolk Coat and Skirt Costume, coat lined silk, skirt box-
pleated, in Green, Blue, and Brown 7S/6
No. 2.— A1l Wool, Striped Serge Costume, coat lined silk, skirt well flared and very
smart, in two shades of Grey 90/-
No. 3.— Fancy Tweed, Newmarket Coat, leather belt, pleated skirt, coat lined silk,
in Grey and Fawn 97/6
Ko. 4.—Handsome Model in Mole Cloth, embroidered silk braid, mole trimming,
pleated pale green silk in vest and cuffs, skirt handsomely trimmed and
stitched 147/-
No. s.—Green Satin Cloth, bodice beautifully embossed with chenille and silk,
finished with small buttons to match, skirt box-pleated and well stitched yoke
and foot 140/-
Send for Illustrated Catalogue B.


EXHIBITION
S OF PICTURES
BY FIVE WOMEN PAINTERS:—
The Misses E. and A. Cusack, E. Meston
A. E. Norton, and E. A. Stephens, ’
at
Walter Bradley’s Galleries
324 GEORGE STREET.
OPEN from APRIL 15 to APRIL 27.
ADMISSION FREE.
An AUCTION SALE will be held at
2 p.m. on APRIL 27ih.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
-I astral in.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
đf
C 3-0 TO UEXjX.-
I* • OLA N I > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 EBizabeth-st., Sydney.
tustrafian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists grtJU.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The historical statement of Lord Granville
that “England would defend the colonies with
her last ship and her last gun ” still holds good.
We get her “ last” ships here—most of them pass
from the Australian squadron to the scrap-heap.
We also get her “ last ” gun—while she adopts a
better.
William M ‘Linen defines his anti-socialism:
“To oppose unjustifiable Government interfer-
ence with private enterprise.” And all Socialists
can heartily subscribe to that.
Maoriland Postmaster-General Ward says
he’ll see to it that it won’t be long before M.L.
and Australia can communicate with each other
at a penny a word by wireless telegraphy.
The economist’s chief objection to the
existence of monopoly is that it tends to produce,
in every industry it has controlled, alternate
periods of overwork and unemployment.
At Rotorua, recently. Premier Seddon
announced a new land policy by which Maoris,
without land, might acquire farms on a long-pay-
ment system. Object is to encourage individualism
amongst the natives as against their communal
system of land holding.
N.S.W. Chief Sec. Hogue smugly pro-
mised a deportation last week that he would intro-
duce a Bill to purify sport by prohibiting betting
at amateur sports meetings—where, as a rule,
there is practically no betting, since there is prac-
tically no hope of profit for the “bookie” among
the usually small attendances. There is to be no
interference with race-courses. Where people
don’t bet, betting is to be illegal; where they do,
legal.
THE BOERS' “ FELLOW-BRITISHER."
Loril Milnpp; in the ishi[?] of his spech, sa d that he
did not believe that the Boers would retuse to join with
their "fellow Britishers" in South Atriea on herins of
psrtect equality.
Premier Carruthers has requested Bent to
forward him the Vic. Butter Commission for taking
evidence m Sydney, and undertakes to pay all
exes. Ihe Bellow assenting, the Commission will
open m Sydney shortly after the Easter Holidays,
oblivious of the fact that there are two circuses
here already.
Bishop Barlow (JST.S.W.) most ridiculously
says that behind Socialism lurk communism
anarchy, dynamite, free love, and the ethics of
the pig-sty. Barlow’s ignorance is pathetic.
* ancy grouping together Socialism and anarchy
the two exactly opposite principles of politics.
Chamberlain is the latest in England to
declare in favor of a Jap-British mutual defensive
alliance, by which the Monkey and the Bull Dog
will stand or fall together. Probably such an
alliance will come, for Britain becomes every year
increasingly nervous as to her ability to defend
her territory. A nice prospect for Australia !
The United States, which debars the Chow
immigrant, allows unrestricted admission to the
Japanese, and Congress is now being flooded with
petitions, chiefly from the Pacific Coast, where
people have had stern experience of the Asiatic,
asking" for the exclusion of the Monkey person. It
is calculated that, 20 years ago, the total Japanese
m the States didn t exceed 100, while now they
number at least 100,000. San Francisco alone got
8000 by immigration during the last two years.
And Fatman’s yarn here is that the Jap does not
want to leave Japan, but is only desirous of seeing
our legislation repealed for sentimental reasons.
Another anti-Socialistic conference lias
been held in Sydney, this time of the Inter-State
Chambers of Commerce. After it had passed 20
resolutions or thereabouts damning State inter-
ference, it wound up, on its last day, by calling
upon the State to pass uniform laws so that it
could more easily pursue the man who was slow
in parting-up for the last parcel of drapery.
The annual conference of Australasian
Chambers of Conference has concluded at Sydney.
The discussion showed that the great essential to
trade and prosperity in the Commonwealth is
nigger. Throughout the plea was for salvation by
nigger or Chow or Jap. Yet they were white
men who made this humiliating confession of sub-
servience to the nigger—but white men obscured
in Fat.
Even old Queensland politician Barlow,
who wears a pretty thick crust of Toryism, goes
back to Brisbane after a visit to N.S. Wales,
disgusted with the Sydney stinking-fish crowd.
“The Freetrade party,” he said when he got
home, “ spends its time running down the Com-
monwealth. You hear of nothing but the Six
Hatters, the Six Potters, the Petriana Case, and
Tozer’s Nurse Girl.”
Bishop Mercer, of Tasmania :
Socialism has made us see the falsity and one-sidedness
of Protestant Individualism. Socialism tried not to pour
medicines down the throat of suffering humanity, but to
search out the root of the disease, to strengthen the
bonds that hold uan to man, and to stand united, the
strong to the v. eak.
Tory Tasmania has two Radical prelates, Dr.
Mercer (Anglican) And Dr. Delaney (R.C.).
Dictator Bent lately suspended four public
servants whose dealings with usurers had reached
the police-court stage. The Crown Law
authorities reported that there was no case for
inquiry by the P.S. Board, so Thomas “lectured
them, ordered them to sin no more, and told them
to return to duty.” Wasn’t it the same Thomas
who promised long, long ago to start a State loan
office for public servants and so keep them out of
the grip of usurers ?
In his researches into the history of the
Protectionism whereby England built up her in-
dustries, Senator Higgs unearthed the interesting
fact that, away back in 1482, a law was passed de-
claring that no person, excepting the lord of the
realm, should wear any woollen clothing made
elsewhere but in England, Ireland, Wales or
Calais (then British), under a £lO penalty. Those
old Britishers stood no revenue-tariff nonsense.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph (12/4/’O5)
devoted nearly a column to eulogising the
Maoriland Tourist Department, under the
headship of Mr. Joseph Ward, the Trea-
surer of that State, with hints that Pre-
mier Carruthers (N.S.W.) might follow
the example of this antipodean Man
from Cook’s. M.L. has spent £lOO,OOO
on roads for sight-seers, spends
£lO,OOO a year on the organisation
staff, runs boats on the lakes,
advertises all over the’world,
controls the sanatoria, and yet
contrives to make the Tourist
Department pay directly. But
the D.T., which really ought to
be horrified, praises this unwar-
rantable interference with Pri-
vate Enterprise, “ this sapping
of the manhood, self-reliance, and
push of the nation,” and flies so
far in the face of Providence and
of the Deform Party as to ask for
a similar “ undermining of the
springs of national life” in N.S.
Wales.
N.S.W. Chief Secretary
Hogue says Socialists are opposed
to machinery. He might as well
say they are opposed to daylight.
And he was defining terms, too,
when he talked that way at the
Glebe, and made it appear that
the machine is a dire
offence to the Socialistic mind.
What Socialists oppose is not
machinery, but the use made of
it by Capital to defraud Labor.
That is a very different matter,
and men who affect to lecture
the public should either master
their subject better or act more
fairly to their opponents. The
socialistic idea admits of the fullest employ-
ment of mechanical inventions, but aims to make
the State their owner and worker.
Argus agony column nowadays contains
this sort of fool-stuff from chagrined fatmen and
Freetraders :
(SHORT-SIGHTED AUSTRALIA.-In consequence
of selfish legislation, you are the laughing-stock
of the world.
It would be interesting to locate this alleged
laughter. The Bulletin has never heard of it
outside the leaden columns of conservative leading
articles.
Sending N.S. W. champion swimmer Keran
to outswim the British talent is a praiseworthy
enough idea, but his friends are making the appeal
for funds farcical. The secretary to the move-
ment has sent a letter to the papers hinting
that the present unfavorable opinion of Australia
in England, “caused !■_. the passage of recent
Socialistic legislation,” might be totally changed
by the boy swimmer. Then a suggestion for a
Government subsidy is thrown out! Australia is,
then, to be saved by the crawl stroke ?
At Melbourne Eight Hours banquet Vic.
Labor-leader Prendergast pointed out that
whereas Vic. had nearly £10,000,000 of loan money
falling due before 1909, it hadn’t a penny put by
to meet the obligation. There was but one way
out of such a degrading position, and that was
“ for the Labor party to adopt a policy in connec-
tion with taxation which would enable the country
to meet its debts in a reasonable way.” Does Mr.
Prendergast then endorse the non - borrowing
policy ? That is the obvious first step to honestv!
S.M. Herald 15/4/’O5 :
We are not one of the earth-hungry Powers. What we
ask is freedom of trade, and that is precisely what is
threatened bv the Powers aiming" at territorial acquisition
m China.
The Herald is, of course, writing about England,
the “we ” being the result of thinking imperially!
But what nation has shown greater earth-hunger
than England ? Take the map of the world from
century to century, from decade to decade, and
the one obvious thing is the voracious appetite of
England.
The Mel-
bourne suburbs
o f Flemington
and Essendon
have struck the
usual trouble
with private en-
terprise. Nearly
a year ago a
syndicate was
given a conces-
sion to build an
electric tramway
to connect with
the cable co. and
serve the dis-
tricts ; this was
to be completed
in six months.
That term has
long since ex-
pired, and the
syndicate’s ex-
tended time has
nearly expired
also, without a
solitary move
being made to
build the lines.
Bent now tbrea
tens to put
motor-buses on the route, but is informed that the
agreement does not allow that till the extended
time-limit, and the concession, finally expire. It
serves Flemington right. A municipality that
can’t build a couple of miles of line itself deserves
all the trouble it strikes.
The S.M. Herald the other day repre-
sented Dacey as proposing that the State
should open bread-shops to sell the 21b.
loaf for id. What Dacey did say was that, if
the State was justified in subsidising the mer-
chant’s business by carrying his English letters
for 2d., when it had to pay 3d. to have the work
done, it was also justified in opening shops to sell
for Id. the loaf that cost 2d. He didn’t say it
was justified in doing either. He left that for the
Herald to do in the interests of its calico-import-
ing patrons.
An exasperating thing m the comments of
the Australian Foreign-trade press on the com-
pletion of the contract with the Orient Co. is the
■ argument that a saving of a paltry £20,000 a year
was not worth the haggling which cost Australia
to lose a couple of trips connecting the dear old
Motherland The same papers greet as high poli-
tics the saying effected by depriving a consump-
tives’ hospital of green vegetables, or an old-age
pensioner of his little dole.
N.S.W. Ministers say that if they gave
members all they ask they would need to mort-
gage the country for a century to come. As
something practical in the way of the economy he
trades on, Carruthers should, then, make it known
that as soon as the House meets he will lay on the
table a return showing the names of members who
“ trotted ” during the recess for money for their
districts, the amount, the object, the report of the
departmental officers, and whether or not the
grant was made. After that he might lay
monthly on the table while the House sits a
similar list. With such data, electors would be
able to. classify members as economists, bogus
economists, or profligates.
The S.M. Herald has just had its annual
weep over the sinfulness of Protection in forcing
the other females into factories :
In 1896 the proportion of females was 12'8 per cent, of
the whole, while in 1904 it had risen to 21-3 per cent.
This is what must be expected when Protection becomes
militant.
The British Empire Year Book ” for 1903 shows
that when the last reliable count was made for
which figures are yet available, 29‘8 per cent, of
all factory employees under the Factories Act in
England were females. And as England is
alleged to be 1' reetrade, a comparison of the two
lots of figures doesn’t seem to leave much of the
Herald’s argument standing.
Ex-Rev. F. T. BrentimU (Q.), who has
been in Adelaide, teaching the Employers’ Union
how to sit hard on workmen, had one ex-
perienoe in Brisbane which ought to have
taught him something, but apparently
didn’t. At a meeting held in the Centen-
nial Hall, to protest against the maritime
strike, Brentnall was inveighing bitterly
against interference with the manner in
which capitalists spend their money. “I
can do as I choose with my own. That
cloak is mine,” he dramatically said, point-
ing- to his cloak on a chair, “and I can do
as I please with it.” “No, you can’t,”
came from the Rev. G. X). Buchanan.
“ The rev. gentleman says I cannot do
what I please with my own cloak ! What
can I not do ? ’ “ Smother me with it,”
quietly replied Buchanan. And that
summed up the whole matter.
Mr. Beeby, a prominent N.S.W. trades-
union solicitor, has credited the Arbitration Act
with these good deeds : The abolition of sweating
and the raising of wages in many trades ; the
shortening of working hours ; the revival of the
important, but almost extinct, practice of appren-
ticing and training artisans ; and the improvement
in status of female workers in the sewing trades.
Ex-parson Brentnall (Q.) told the em-
ployers delegates, at the Adelaide conference
that “ a friend of his had engaged 100 East Indian
coolies and nearly as many Chinese to take the
place of deported Kanakas'on the sugar-fields.”
Probably this is the same old “ friend ” who was
going to invest £494,370 in a new industry, but
was prevented by the Socialistic trend of legis-
lation. Still, the Customs authorities might keep
an eye on Brentnall; and, if some friend of his
should wilfully break the Commonwealth law by
importing under contract prohibited persons,
Brentnall, as an accessory before the fact, ought
to be asked to explain his position.
Knox, as chairman of the Chambers of
Commerce Conference, declared that Socialistic
legislation was accountable for the absence of
immigration. Down to 1897 Vic. practically
didn’t know what a Parliamentary Labor Party
was ; it didn’t have any Immigration Restriction
Act, or Arbitration Court, or even Wages Boards.
It just had Premiers like Gillies, and Munro, and
Patterson, and a House of Pat which Knox’s race-
course hat soon adorned. Yet from 1891 to 1897
Victoria lost 88,452 people by excess of emigration
over immigration. Still, though Victoria hadn’t
any organised Parliamentary Labor Party or any
Socialistic, legislation,” it had a dozen or so
banks which went bung. One of them
went on paying 12 and 10 per cent. divs.
almost up to the moment it shut its doors, and
depositors that it couldn’t pay
them, and that they would have to wait long
periods for their money. These things, which
caused the rush out of Vic. long before there was
any “ Socialistic legislation,” bank-director Knox
somehow forgot to mention.
ON THE OCEAN BEACH.
"Them as wants the womanly woman can hare
her—the Manly girl is good enough for me. ”
Hobart Mercury, which reckons itself
the arch-opponent of Socialism, printed the fol-
lowing in its editorial page (April 4, 1004)
Mr. Adam, an engineer in the service of the Indian
Government railways, who recently visited Tasmania,
said that the market in India for railway sleepers was
practically unlimited, but they would not take Tas-
manian or any Australian timber unless with a Govern-
ment guarantee that the sleepers sent were what they
purported to be. It is sad to reflect that we should have
such a bad name abroad, but the fact has to be faced.
And the saddest part of it is that the “bad
name ” applies only to private enterprise.
One well-known Scotch union-smasher is
charged now with decoying hundreds of emigrants
to Canada under promises of remunerative em-
ployment, and with abandoning them to the cold
charity of “Our Lady of the Snows.” Most of
these unfortunates have since straggled and
struggled back to Scotland, where, they declare,
wages are higher, work is more constant, and
living is cheaper. Distant snow-fields are green.
Melbourne Age, going into details of the
Goulburn (Vic.) levqe,, shows how this Socialistic
enterprise has benefited those very landowners
who are most blatant in cursing it. There is still
another mile to build, and, when finished, the
work will have cost about £50,000. This expendi-
ture will have enhanced Crown lands by about
£41,000 and private lands by over £lOO,OOO. Even
the lately-purchased Wyuna estate, part of which
was subject to floods, was improved by the under-
taking, so in buying it for closer settlement the
State has actually paid for an increased value
created by its own work.
Professor Rentoul went down to Geelong,
the other Sunday, at the invitation of the Political
Labor Council, and spoke to a crowd that packed
the theatre, the sleepy town’s biggest building, on
two texts “If any man will not work, neither
shall he eat,” from the New Testament ; and
“Woe unto them who lay field to field,” from the
Old. Referring to the land question as it affects
Vic., “ fighting Larry ” urged the Labor Party to
secure the appointment of a Royal Commission to
investigate the manner in which the large land-
owners got their property. Wherever it was
found that it had been acquired by underhand
means, “then,’ he thundered, “let it be taken
away from them. It is not theirs. It is yours.”
CHARITY,
BILL (hoarsely): “I was all through, the Boer
war, y’ know."
JIM : “ ’S' all right, Bill: it's safe with vie. I
won't never blow on yer."
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers says that he
is in favor of appointing a business agent for
N.S.W. in London instead of an Agent-General,
when the Federal High Commissioner is ap-
pointed. But he has renewed for seven years the
lease of the N.S.W. offices at Westminster in the
diplomatic quarter. A business agent would need
offices in the commercial part of the city.
C. P. Hodges, Chinese interpreter, who
recently died in Melbourne, aged 74, was the only
Englishman in Vic. who spoke the language
well enough to be professionally useful. Among
other decorations from the Chinese Government,
Hodges rejoiced in that of Mandarin of the
Crystal Button.


A Fine
Violin
£1 :11 : 6
dfdh
me •‘STUDENT'S”
MODEL.
Complete with Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
Of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 s 11 s 6.
Write for handsome
illustrated catalogue*
post free.
PALINGS
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Paling’s
Pianos will
stand all
climates.
They’re so
g'ood and
cheap; be-
sides every
one carries
our wel 1-
Known
guarantee.
Send for Handsome
illustrated Cata-
logue, and don't for-
get the Price List,
Post Free.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
39
Banjos
aft
Paling's
fdh
We hold
the largest
stock of
Banjos
in Australia.
Best American make at
very low prices.
All Strings and Fittings
stocked.
Catalogues are yours
for the asking.
****
Paling’s,
338 George St.
SYDNEY.
St. Kilda’s monument to its 65 citizens
who went farm-burning in S’Africa is surmounted
by a curious contrivance of balls so arranged that
the familiar pawnbroking sign of Ikey Mo is pre-
sented from every aspect. Nothing could be more
appropriate.
Are You Anxious
to get Cured ? If so, take
VITADATIO
You will be fully satisfied
with the result.
Cures Stricture.
56 Castlemaine-street, Yarraville,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Dear Sir, —I have been troubled for the past twenty
years with stricture, and been under skilful medical
men in South Australia and also in Victoria. I have
undergone three operations, but only received temporary
benefit. As the doctors said there was no cure for me, I
was recommended to try VITADATIO. I purchased one
bottle, which, I was pleased to find, acted like magic on
my complaint. I have taken five large bottles, and can
truly say, up to the present time, I have received great
benefit, and fully believe it will make a complete cure of
the above complaint. You are at liberty to make what
use you think fit of this, as VITADATIO cannot be too
highly recommended.
I remain, voure truly,
EDWARD JENKINS.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER ,
Head Office: 439 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
The Monkey is spending £500,000 in
Australia on remounts to help chase the Bear
out of Manchuria. If Russia is slow enough, the
shipments may get through to Japan without
molestation on the high seas. The consignments
are going to Hongkong, in British bottoms, under
the pretence that that is the port of their
destination, hut on arrival there the journey will
be secretly continued across to Japan. Every-
thing necessary to carry out the enterprise is
being purchased in Australia —feed boxes,
fodder, halters—and white attendants are
engaged at this end of the journey. The
buying of the animals, however, is in the
hands of Japanese officers, one of whom
at each shipping centre is the only hint that the
Monkey has a hand in the deal. Independently
of these consignments of stock, large purchases of
grain are being made in Australia by Japanese
officers; and they buy sharply. At Brisbane, re-
cently, a Jap officer refused 200 tons of wheat out
of 700, and several hundred tons of barley in one
lot. The lesson had its effect, for the next con-
signment was faultless.
A USEFUL BARGAIN
Business Rubber Type Outfit
AT HALF PRICE
ĥd
Over 250 Solid Rubber Types,
including Capitals, Small Letters,
Figures, Punctuation Marks and
Ornaments, besides Spaces,
Logotypes, Three-Line T ype
, Holder with Handle, Self-
Inking Pad, Tweezers, &c.
Only 5/6 each.
'"THE usual price of this Large Out-
-*■ fit i size of box five by seven-and-
a-half inches'! is 9s. 6d., but we have secured an extensive stock
at a very low figure and will sell them, while they last,at
6s. 6d. each, or just about half pt ice. Everyone can find daily
use for a first-cl ss fount of rubber Type, such as this, and
thus it will save its cost, in less than a week, lou should not
miss this chance, for they will not long be obtainable at this
price. Money back if you are not perfectly satisfied.
SPECIMEN of
the 250 Types
Remembpr, only ss. 6d. complete and post free to any
address. Send Postal Note of any State. Obtainable only from
The Union IKlfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
[The Real Thingi
! At Last I '
FUSSELL?
PURE RICH
CRBAM
GOLDEN
BUTTERFLY
BRANDm
FUSS ELL’S
CREAM
Is NOT a Makeshift NOE a Substi-
tute but PURE Mountain Pasture
i CREAM. Guaranteed free from Pre-
I servative and put up in Sterilized
I Tins. Keeps good IN ANY CLIMATE
I FOR MANY MONTHS. On sale
[ almost everywhere, but if any difficulty
in procuring it, apply to special repre-
sentative for the district—
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.,
George Street, Sydney.
A CRITICISM.
A recent English Critic of our customs expresses
astonishment at two things he finds in this country:
First, the general prosperity, as indicated by the large
number of Australian homes containing pianos.
Second, the great proportion of these pianos which
are NEVER TOUCHED.
He wonders why so many people in Australia invest large sums
of money in something they cannot put to any practical use.
This condition the PIANOLA is doing much to remedy, for
with its aid the piano may be played even by those who are
unable to strike a single chord with the fingers.
Thirty years ago the piano itself was considered in the light
of a luxury. To-day no home is thought completely furnished
without it.
The same condition is rapidly coming to be true of the
Pianola. It is primarily an article of UTILITY. The music
that would otherwise remain locked up in the piano is made
immediately accessible.
It is so simple that With it anyone
can learn to play the Piano in
a half-hour’s practice.
Write For Catalog B, an Illustrated Booklet explaining
all about it, or call at our Warerooms. Informal
Recitals daily.
The Pianola may be purchased on terms if so desired.
The word “PIANOLA ” is Copyrighted, and the
Instrument is Patented. It is sold only by
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO
323 George Street, Sydney;
185 Collins Street, Melbourne /
311 Queen Street, Brisbane /
53 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
Sole Agents for the Famous “BROADWOOD ” PIANOS.


mi
■
&***>
'
r>rmt.
US
m :
. • '-r
■ f
$$ &
m
mm
J,.
i -*>*
w
■ m. si*
SeS!
*
< V 1
l/»
/.-mm f
lH
sft
Rll
<»
‘••y-
V
?f*aK
%
1 ' w !:. r
*z*m *■ ♦*» ■«£#*
• ‘‘- -A&S. -- .<
.»• • +
'a
WM-lmM
- **<-
*'•?
* >««
• :
*><K*
WN)."*
*t*r .. ✓
' uj»r. ,-'*sf
• - It.-** J .
3>«.w4
SHfc ' ■ SaS— ">>
W^\
l--.
m
' ■ - . '■ ,*,V •<•-.-»_
I*#*
JOT
»WA
si.. , '*
Sis*
<& «-' ■
*asr«r*tf
I
<%,-
rR
' • ; -> : ,****• r^>'^
**■' _*
:,f ,
1
■ ■/>.
.sgwefV <?fs i*S4v» jf' r
■• . •
s
■
•r
*
$r L ? «W
s fc
, ;v
■
■/
HIP' • •• ■ 1
» ?/ • ■•-.' ’ ' ' \.
REMEMBER / The Land Board sits at Inverell, on 2nd May, to deal with
applications lodged between 25th and 29th April.
fdh
S- tcfos
JF7) 7 / /A <
/4) A hwj4; (puUcMs CafcCfl# CUtzzU
/9zM,Ak> Ori W x£*jL A to
>
--»• Hi,' ‘ /CCv^tlofvJeck^y'ay-j
Of:
■wm


aCKSS^
1
P
<F
:w
V'
m
\
•'.V ■
v >Tr* :
.-
■
...
jfßf3
f
*tei
.-
Sft
*
SR
'
HS>
\
m.‘
m
A
■-«
I
.as®
if': «
«>V%; - * ya •. _,
WKfe
**e.
iv
-
•5#
'*M
£=&
’W
% ' :; ; ■ r
“And the land shall yield her fruit, and ye shall
eat your fill, and dwell therein in safety. 99 — Leviticus , XXV,—I9.
ħdf
MYALL CREEK ESTATE, Inverell Land District, New South Wales. (Closer Settlement Act, 1904.)
Notice is hereby given that the Myall Creek Estate, recently acquired by the State Government, and adjacent suitable Crown lands, in all over 65,000 acres, have been subdivided into 138 Farms,
ranging in area from 240 to 1 380 acres, and will become available for application under the Closer Settlement Act of 1904 on the 25th April, 1905. These lands afford special advantages for Closer
Settlement. The climate is beklthy, and the rainfall, averaging 31] inches per annum for the past twenty-three years, is ample. In addition, the Myall Creek and its tributaries traverse the area, and water
may be easily obtained almost anywhere by sinking wells. The soil is rich chocolate or red. on the slopes, with rich black soil on the plama The Estate is admirably adapted for mixed farming,. such as
cultivation of wheat, maize, barley, potatoes, and other cereal and root crops, with dairying, pig-raising, and poultry-farming or sheep-farming The soil is also eminently suited for the cultivation of orchards or vineyards.
DEPOSIT The deposit to be paid by an applicant when lodging his application is X 5 j>er cent, of the value of the farm— i.e., should the value of the farm be i, 1,000, tbe,deposit will be £oo. Uhe balance can
be paid off at any time, or by 5 per cent, payments extending over thirty-eight years. Applications must be lodged with the Crown Land Agent, Inverell and may be either lodged personally or forwarded by registered post.
SPEClAL.—Applications lodged on and between Tuesday, the 25th, and Saturday, the 29th of April, 1905, inclusive, will be dealt with specially by the Local Land Board, sitting at Inverel, on Tuesday the 2nd May, 1900, when
it will be most expedient for all applicants to be present in order that tbev may present their cases fully, and that those entitled may obtain possession of the land applied for immediately after the Board s determination.
Pamphlets, Plans, and further information of the fullest kind, respecting the Estate, may be obtained at the offices of all Crown Lands Agents in the State and at the Inqmry Branch of the Department of Lands Sydney.
SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION TICKETS. Notice is hereby given that the Railway Commissioners will issue cheap Excursion Tickets at the rate of Id. (one penny) a mile, one way, second-class return, from any
railway station in the State to Inverell; minimum fare, 10s. Tickets will issue to Inverell at any station Jn the State of New South Wales from 19th April to_2nd May, i
to 10th May, inclusive. Thi
for land, and that they are
from Sydney and stations on
31-3-1905, EDWARD MACFARLANE, Under Secretary for Lands.
, inclusive, and will be available for return up


'?!
m
it
m
Mmi
M. J. MOLONEY,
Tattersa/I's Club,
SYDNEY.
■ ♦
COMMISSIONS Executed.
LONGEST MARKET RATES
GUARANTEED.
TEL. 1542 or 251,
Write or wire for Quotations.
Price Lists forwarded on Application*
♦ ■
Addeess all Cobbespondence—
M, J, MOLONEY, TattersalTs Club, Sydney.
Baby’s Cost.
Is it too High?
How often the price paid is the mother’s health
and happiness. The father does not realise as he
romps with the child that years of wifely suffering
w
may be set against the
baby laughter. Chronic
invalidism is a high
price to pay, yet it
is at such a cost that
many a woman be-
comes a mother. Such
a price is too much,
because it is more than
Nature asks. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are the weak
woman’s friend. They
heal inflammation, dry
debilitating drains, an l
tone the entire system.
They get at the cause
of all complaintsarising
from a disordered
stomach, liver or
kidneys, and cleanse
the blood, driving out
all impurities through
the regular channel. Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot
Pills aid in the digestion and assimilation of food,
acting on the bowels in a mild and gentle manner,
thereby cleansing the stomach and keeping the
liver and kidneys in proper working order. They
are a positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments.*
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body
and there will be no bad after-effects ! We are
talking of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
E. Wilson Dobbs writes :
Even allowing that members of the Literature Society
of Melbourne practise mutual admiration methods, surely
that is better than holding fellow-associates up to ridi-
cule, as your anonymous correspondent has done. As it
happens, however, members do not “butter-up” one
another in the manner stated. Regarding' the instance
stated, my paper was on “ Australian Ballads of Battle,”
and I did not recite “ Temeraire,” either with or without
“sixteen canary quavers.” Neither did Mr. Henry Gyles
Turner speak favorably of the paper in question, but was
decidedly adverse in his criticism, while certainly I did
not ag'ree with him, on that nor on any other occasion.
Your correspondent’s remarks about other speakers are
also travesties of what really occurred.
“ S.S.” : The Eight Hours crowd throng-
ing Melbourne streets is the most characteristic
crowd the Yarra-side city produces. No other
crowd is at all like it. It is a crowd of toilers,
young and old, all bearing the impress of graft.
Evidently, the superior person religiously absents
itself from the city streets on this occasion ; con-
sequently, the crowd is unmixed, and gives Collins
and Swanston streets an unusual appearance, as if
the country towns had sent thousands of people to
the metropolis, sightseeing. It is essentially the
people’s day. Alas! that the procession should
have seemed like the triumphal march of Bung.
To me it appeared that Bung rode by in his chariot
with a thousand captives at his wheels. The chief
displays were brewery exhibits, and beer was in
evidence all along the line, beer in bottles, barrels,
hogsheads, tins. Beside the brewery trophies,
those of the bakers were scarcely discoverable.
There was little bread indeed to an intolerable
amount of sack. The unions successfully resisted
an attempt to turn their Eight Hours Monument
into a memorial for Bung; it would be wise to
strive to make their annual procession look less
like a festival of Bacchus.
d
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
R (J B B’Sa
A MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water,
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
“ MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED.”
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
fhfd
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives
Bkewery and Offices:
DOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The presence of the world’s champion long- and
short-distance runners failed to draw anything like a
crowd to the International Athletic meeting at Svdney
Cricket Ground, Saturday afternoon. The ghastly array
of empty seats, the desert of unoccupied “ hill,” and even
the paucity of deadheads, all indicated that Sydney is not
very interested in foot-racing, jumping, or putting the
shot. More’s the pity !
* * * *
The beating of world champion Duffey in the
international athletic meeting at Sydney Cricket Ground
on Saturday was a picturesque event. It is hardly
possible to imagine a finer specimen of humanity than
Duffey from a spectacular standpoint, llis chest develop-
ment is magnificent, and the tops of his legs are bunches
of muscle. E'ght men were entered for the International
100yds. Scratch Race, but only three started—viz., Duffey ;
Nigel Barker, of Sydney Uni. A.C. ; and Stanley Rowley,
of East Sydney club. They got off to an absolutely
perfect start, and all in a bound the Yankee was away
ahead. His white uniform showed in front with over a
y ard between it and that of Rowley, while the blue of
Barker seemed hopelessly in the rear. At haif
distance the Yankee flyer was well in front.
Either the world’s champion was out of condition
or the heavy nature of the spongy turf was tellii g
upon him, for he distinctly slackened at three-
quarters. All in a flash Rowley was beside him, Barker
coming with a grand rush. He’s level; the Yankee lifts
himself for another spurt; but the blue jersey responds,
and sprints again, finishing right in front with inches to
spare. It was a sprint to be proud of. Although the
Yankee champion was beaten fairly, his record remains
intact; the spongy nature of the going made the breaking
of that impossible. Considering the state of the track
10 l-ssec. was remarkably good time.
* * * *
It is hardly possible to imagine two men more
dissimilar than Duffey and Shrubb. The American races
with an air of ferocity, and his chin wears a “dangerous
to navigation ” sort of aspect. He races as though the
last man he overtakes he will devour upon the spot, and
growl over his marrow bones. Shrubb, on the other
hand, jogs round and round with a make-believe kind of
trot, and in his dark eyes there is a gentle, startled-
gazelle sort of look. A mile run looks dead easy, but the
horribly pumped condition of some of the competitors on
Saturday proved it to be ar^ thing* but a fit exercise for
old ladies with weak hearts. Shrubb made the pace, and
Wheatley, of Vie., hung to him like a shadow till in the
last quarter, vvhen the amazing Londoner spurted, and
although he did not seem to be travelling very fast, or to
be exerting himself in the slightest, won by nearly 20
yards in 4 mins. 26 3-5 secs.
» * •» *
Queensland champion C. E. Graham’s sudden
death last week through appendicitis is troubling the
hearts of Sydney athletes ; the disease has attacked so
many of them—swimmers, runners, footballers and boxers
—of late years. Possible that a system, rendered super-
sensitive through high training and having hardly re-
covered from a severe attack of dengue fever, sustained
a chill during the winning of those three events (the long
and high jump and 120yds. hurdles) in the match between
t>3’dney and Brisbane teams less than a fortnight ago.
Particularly is this likely, as Graham was waiting about
very lightly clad between races.
* * * *
Par in Bulletin (13/4/’O5) commenting on the
statement in a daily paper that Mr. J. J. Calvert, clerk of
the N.S.W. Legislative Council, claimed to have run the
100 yards in Ojsec. needs correction. What Mr. Calvert
said was that professionals Seward and Albison ran the
distance in the time mentioned. Concerning which J. J.
Miller s “ Sporting Pamphlet ” says : “ George Seward, the
American sprinter, was given a record of 9isec., Hammer-
smith, England, Sept. 30, 1844. Race was run from a
flying start and partly down hill.”
* * * *
The fates are beginning to smile again on the
fortunes of the classic Hawkesbury Turf Club, which of
late years has been kept alive only by the energy of secre-
tary Guest. The Autumn Meeting saw a bigger crowd
larger fields, and better horses engaged than for .years
past. Quite a number of Doncaster Handicap and Sydney
Cup horses were engaged, and added to the public
interest in the meeting 1 . The dead-heat of Lucknow with
Flashlock in the Clarendon Handicap will probably cause
a few to take an interest in the son of Russley for the
Doncaster Handicap, as he carries 7.10, or 181 b. less than
he did in the Clarendon, and Flashlock ran under 7st.
Recent Melb. Cup winner Acrasia, with 9st. up, was not
placed in the Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap. Acrasia
carries 8.7 in Sydney Cup, and Tatterdemalion, winner of
Saturday’s big race, with 7.12, will only carry 7.8 in that
case. But the Hawkesbury was a mile and a quarter,
and Sydney Cup is two miles.
* * * •
V.R.C. committee has decided to advertise fora
detective at £450 a year. The present detective (Wright)
only gets £l2O a year. The general impression is that
Detective McManamny, who was recently spoken of as a
likely candidate for a stipendiary stewardship, is meant
for the new job ; but it would hardly pay him to throw
U P’ something like £3OO a year under the Government,
with the right to a pension when he retires and the
chance of promotion, for a somewhat uncertain billet
under the Y.R.C. committee.
* * * .
One of the sights at Tlemington, on Saturday,
was bookmaker Barney Allen walking about with his
solicitor and inviting the Y.R.C. committee to tread on
the tail of his coat. His “warning off” by the Calcutta
Turf Club stewards had on the previous day been
“ adopted” by the V.R.C. committee, and according to
all precedent Allen should have retired to the flat.
He refused to leave the grand-stand enclosure when
requested to do so, and was formally ejected by the club’s
detective placing his hand on his shoulder aiid seeing him
off the premises. A writ for damages against Wright, the
club s detective, is the sequence. If the action ever
comes to anything, the point to be determined is a very
interesting one.
* * * *
Though apparently little thought of, Ossian,
owned by Mr. W. P. Crick, should make a bold bid for
Sydney Cup, Raster Monday ; he is working well and has
only to carry 7.5, lib. more than when he finished fourth
in last Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup winner (Clean Sweep) of five
years ago started in a £5O Maiden Hurdle Race at
NIGEL BARKER (Sydney University A. A. C.)
who beat champion Duffey at Sydney, April
15, 1905.
Photo, by Swiss Studios, Sydney.]
Cheltenham (Eng.) a month ago, and finished a bad last
in a field of 10.
* * * *
The Adelaide Racing Club went the right way
to work with the bookmakers Saturday last. Where it
recognised bookmakers it refused to issue them tickets or
allow them to enter the course. Of course they got in
and started to yell the odds. Then the club’s private
detectives caught them firmly and hustled them out.
Well-backed and much-tipped Berthier (20 to 1
at moment of writing') for A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap
belongs to Randwick trainer A. Foley, who won last
years Doncaster with Ohere Amie, about whom hundreds
to three were available three days before the race.
Berthier hasn’t performed publicly' for some time, but
last season he won Stockbridge Handicap from a big field
which included high-class nags, Suivre, Pendant, Co'urada’
Reunalf 11. and Yanawaa. Foley bought Berthier and
Chere Anne at dispersal of the Bulga stud for 30gs. and
28gs. respectively. Chere Amie was recently sold to go
to S’Africa for 800 gs. “
w V *
At the Calcutta races—for horses, hunters and
ponies of February 18, six out of seven events were won
by Australian horses.
* * * *
That Zythos’ name appeared as Xythos in the
Tattersall list of winning numbers on the Newcastle Cup
was fault of the men who run the sweep. “ Tatter-
sall ” explains that he takes the names of horses from the
official nomination list, signed by the secretary of the
club, and faithfully follows copy ; and Newcastle Jockey
Club’s list spelt it “ Xythos.”
City Bowling Club (Sydney), on Saturday, went
out to Randwick, and, with what some considered a com-
paratively weak team, defeated a crowd of giants from
Waverley, and thereby scooped in the pennant. The
match ebbed and flowed considerably. City went off
with a rush, and was leading by 20 in no time. Waverley
removed its waistcoat and braces, tucked up its pants,
and settled down for a long stern-chase. At the end of
the 20th head it had made up the leeway, and the score
•stood 72 all. City undid its collar, put its pipe in its
pocket, and looked grave. Waverley went to the front,
but did not seem wildly enthusiastic over the fact. City
came again, and it was anybody’s game till, right at the
last, several rinks failed badly, and the game ended : City
94, Waverley 84. The result was a surprise, but now some
of the City men have a haunting suspicion that the
arrangement by which the victors had to pay for the
banquet might have had some mysterious connection
with the result. A number of the North Britons out
Waverley way were observed to be wearing a look of keen
satisfaction at that banquet.
* * * »
S.A. bowls premiership has been won by the
first-established Adelaide Club, but the “ rink” cham-
pionship went to a four from the Oval Club, including
cricket-secretary Jack Creswell and W. J. P. Davies, the
Stock Exchange champion walker. Two Yic. clubs,
Hamilton and Ballarat Central, will put in Easter at
Adelaide.
* * * *
. N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union will have to insist that
its members should have more practice on the track
before competing in races. Saturday’s meeting showed
that the men were quite unfit to be racing on any track
less than 10 chains wide, and the result was that there
were two general falls of a most appalling character. Had
they been travelling at anything iike high speed, Sydney
C.G. track would have been littered with human meat
on Saturday afternoon. As it was, one man was badly
hurt, and was taken off bandaged, while fragments of a
bicycle-wheel carried across the ground showed the
terrific force of the impact the rider had made with the
fence in trying to avoid the wreck in front.
* * * *
The Council of the N.S.W. League of Wheel-
men has declined to accede to Larry Corbett’s request to
rescind the balance of his term of disqualification over the
1904 Sydney Thousand. The decision does the League
Council credit. Corbett was told that if he applied again
in six months time his request might be received more
favorably.
* * * *
The next motor-car test is to be a hundred-mile
non-stop run, carried out in the neighborhood of Mel-
bourne. Too many motor tests wijl do a lot to fan the
decidedly strong feeling that already exists against the
motor-car. As a matter of fact, the motor is a much less
dangerous animal to be abroad than the horse driven by
the weedy youth with the cigarette. As long as anything
like a reasonable speed is maintained they are the safest
form of locomotion for street and road use. The organ-
isers of these tests should try to impress that fact on the
people at large.
* * * *
Towns-Stanbury squabble over the loot has
advanced another stage. Rather than lose the match,
Stanbury has given n ay, and now agrees to the proposal
that should Towns lose shall have the lion’s share of the
boodle, with an equal division in the event of the cham-
pionship remaining on the same shoulders.
* * + *
A Sydney paper congratulates Inter-State
Eight coach upon having done fairly well up to the pre-
sent time with his charges. Then it enumerates nearly a
dozen fatal defects in the crew’s shaping, and condemns
one man absolutely and utterly. The curse that fell on a
certain classic jackdaw is not in the same book with it.
What in thunder would be wrong with that crew if the
coach had done badly instead of “ fairly well ” only
Heaven and, perhaps, the Japanese Consul know. Many
people in Sydney believe that the Jap Consul knows as
much as Heaven
* « * *
Passed over, at Drummoyne, Sydney, tbe other
day, George Barnett, veteran oarsman and boat-builder,
aged 73. Deceased’s sculling days were in the ’sixties,
but he continued to turn out good work almost till his
death.
♦ * * *
Annette Kellermann’s only trouble during her
?°1 mile swim in the Yarra, last week, was the unsatisfy-
ing nature of the soft tack handed to her while she was
in the water. Her first words when she climbed out at
•the boatsheds were—“ Ido want something to eat,” and
even before she troubled about washing off the Yarra
microbes under the shower she finished off a mass of sand-
wiches brought by her girl-trainers. The fair Annette’s
prowess has raised a new type in Melbourne—the female
barracker. Annette is followed by a crowd of female
admirers, who correspond with the youths who press
round to touch the hem of the famous footballer’s garment,
and they filled her dressing room after her big swim,
slapping her broad back and remarking “ Good old girl ”
after the manner of corresponding masculine types. The
fleeting glimpse of Annette revealed to Melbourne as she
emeiged, indicated that with all her continued exercise
she is putting on flesh to a marked extent. Her outlines
are just as firm and athletic as previously, but she would
be a more perfect sculptor’s model if she were a stone or
so lighter. She shortly leaves for England, where all
good Australian athletes go, and purposes trying the
swim across the English Channel, which is a very different
proposition indeed to going down the Yarra with the*
current.
* * * *
The long drawn-out cricket season in Victoria
came to a close last Saturday in an atmosphere of mois-
ture and general disgust. Melbourne and .“East,”
hitherto unbeaten, came together in the final round on
the previous Saturday, when East put up 221 for six
wickets as a result of 4 hours’ play, on a good wicket.
Monday was too wet for play, and when the umpires
went out at 4 p.m. last Saturday East “ declared,” and tried
to put Melbourne through in the remaining two hours.
They failed miserably, the old club, on a sloppy wicket
scoring 80 for three wickets, thus drawing the match, but
winning the premiership on averages. For this final
match the M.C.C. threw open its ground free, and pro-
vided a brass band; consequently about 2000 deadheads
turned up, but inside, where the charge was 6d., the takings
wouldn’t pay the umpires, and the members, who mostly
bring someone else’s sisters to a free show, absented
themselves strenuously. Compare this with the joyous
crowd that, three weeks before, paid 6d. a head at the
Richmond City ground to see Denham-street Wesleys
beat Northern District 0.0. There was a willing, bar-
racking, interested 2000, keenly watching everv turn
of the game but that was electorate cricket,
as against “ club ” ditto ; Wesleys practically
meaning Hawthorn and their opponents North
Carlton. Also consider the crowds that watched the
State school nippers fight their final battles. The
kiddies’ cricket has not that certainty and finish that years
of play give, but they are much better worth watching
than the seniors if only for the rapidity of their scoring
the smartness and dash of their fielding, and their unflag-
ging eagerness and determination to win. And they are
good sports all the time. It is good to know this, for
Victorian cricket is likely to be in a bad way for some
years pending the settlement of the dispute as to control
between the Melbourne C.O. and “ground,” the’Varsity
club and the other clubs, and the inauguration of a work-
able electorate system.
* * » *
Died, in London, W. G. Grace, junior, eldest
son of the veteran. He was a persevering but only
moderate cricketer, and when at Cambridge it was said
that only his name got him into the XI. He always
played with glasses.
» * * »
D. G. Soutar, who, on arrival in N.S.W.,
annexed all the amateur golf championships, has now
D“ le(1 .the Royal Sydney Club as professional coach.
Ihis will cut him off from future participation in amateur
championships, most of which were at his mercy.
* * * *
Paul Pons, the famous French wrestler, died
recently, aged 41. Once known as the King of Wrestlers
he was champion of the world in 1898, and won the gold
belt three times. Tom Cannon, the Englishman who
visited Australia, beat him.
* * * m
One reason given in Melbourne for the large
expenditure of football clubs on boots for members is
that a greatmnany are worn out on the umpires.
To put a polish on Rugby football, N.S.W.
Union proposes to appoint coaches to instruct in the
fine points. As Bedell-Sievright, Swannell and Crowther
are holiday-jaunting in N.S.W. baekblocks, it’s more than
possible that a billet will fall to one (or perhaps the three)
of the last British Rugby team. The Union is trying by
this means to wipe out the unnecessary roughness which
has crept into Rugby.
* * *
“ B Re statement (B. 6/4/’O5) that the N.S.W.
Rugby Union’s loss on the year of £745 was caused by the
visit of the British team. The union’s heavy expenses
were due to fostering schools football (over £500), bring-
lng country teams to Sydney, and in scattering funds to
lift the pastime generally. As a matter of fact, standing
by itself, the tour of the Britishers ended in a profit of
£451 to the Union—a satisfactory result, which gave
great pleasure to the N.S.W. and English Rugby Unions,
and will do a great deal towards encouraging visits of
Britishers.
* * * *
Cabled that Australian billiardist Fred Weiss
beat Englishman Cecil Harverson by 477 in 8000. Weiss’
win squares things between the pair, for he succumbed to
Harverson soon after reaching London. Harverson is top
of England’s second-class lot.
* * • »
Saturday night fight at Sydney Gaiety Club was
the tamest thing imaginable. It was, in fact, dead tire-
some. The bruisers were Messrs. Jones and Webber, and
the only bright spots in the show were the three lovely
black eyes the contestants shared between them at the
finish. At one time fears were entertained that one or
both of the bruisers would go to sleep during the course
of hostilities, and get hurt before the fact was discovered.
That, however, did not happen.
* * * *
There was nothing of a Homeric nature about
the engagement between R. Turner and Montague
Andrews, at Sydney National Sporting Club, last week.
Padded with six ounce gloves, and both, apparently,
deficient in hitting power, they exhibited a marvellous
stock of evolutions, worked their arms like flails —and
nobody seemed a scrap the worse. Writer never saw so
much energy expended to produce so small an effect. At
the close of the 17th round the referee made an announce-
ment, or proclamation, or ukase, or something, to the
effect that the said Turner had held Andrews as
he hit him, which left him no option but to award the fight
to Montague Andrews. The immediate result of this
verdict was that the disqualified pug. made a speech, and
started to wade into the successful rival. Some inter-
fering busybodies hauled him off, instead of letting them
show if they were better at rough and tumble than at
M.Q. rules. A really interesting exhibition was thus
nipped in the bud.
* * * *
Some Australasian body should take hold of
boxing, at least insofar as championships are concerned.
Some of the champions, for instance Monty Andrews, are
notably outside the class they profess to head by 101 b. or
more.


Melbourne tackle
of & criticised as a dangerous novelty
in musical construction.
vtfßfb 1 Very OldVatte d
LiqueurWhisky.
J)istilledBcßottJcd by
Kilmarnock Scotland.
I SQFTEKS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WlLLiaSiS’
fd
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
Every Bar weighs 17 Unrest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLI) IN SLICES.
232 CLARE 'ICE 3T., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
W. W B GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS
h
Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Exposition, 1904.
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 310 & 297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S GUNS and RIFLES—a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative)
T?OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
JP ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King: Street Coffee Palace,”
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS
C. STRATMANN’S a
FINE....
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES .™t
SWEETHEATS
724 PITT STREET, Fresh Ever y Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
Why Don’t You Write
TO-DAY for Patterns of our HANDSOME NEW AUTUMN
SUITINGS, and compare our prices with what you’ve been
paying elsewhere? We’ve just opened a Splendid Selection,
including our famous Pure Indigo Blue Fadeless Serges.
REMEMBER ! —We guarantee to please and fit you as well, by
our easy system of self-measurement, as though you were
fitted in our workrooms.
“ Economic ” Suits to
Measure
Hand-finished in Best
Possible Style..
35 s . to 50s.
60s. *° 85s.
fhd
CHARLES GILBERT, « u «"
SPECIALIST IN TAILORING,
fPS“-/i special discount will bm given if this paper is mentioned.
ASK FOR demmnwxm*
FRANZ JOSEF Laser
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
I
Beautiful
Ring Settings
JZ &
We have a line of GOLD RINGS of manifoii
designs—Beautiful Half-hoop Rings, Marquise and
Cluster, etc., set with RICH WH / TE
DIAMONDS, and but you must see them
to appreciate their tone. Fi'ices from £ 3 up.
. Also, a variety of Rings suitable as gifts. A
EDWARD FISCHER & SON
h. IEO COLLINS
MELBOURNE.
NOTICE TO PATRONS.
MRS. MACLURCAN desires to announce to her numerous
customers that, owing to the increasingly large demand on
her accommodation, she has leased the commodious premises
adjoining her hotel. This will add twenty rooms to the establish-
ment, and provide ample accommodation for visitors.
The new apartments will be furnished and fitted in exactly
the same manner as the main building, regardless of cost.
THE WEHTWORTH HOTEL,
CHURCH HILL,
Hff nc TW Arj TTDr 1 AHT Authoress of Mrs. Maclurcan’s Cookery
IVIKj+ It 1 ALLUKL A H Book; Bth Edition now in the Press,
PEOPEIETBESS.
Electric Lights, Electric Bells, Electric Lift (the only automatic
Electric Lift in Australia), Hot and Cold Baths, Private Suites,
and the usual concomitants of a well-ordered family hotel.
Theatre Parties are specially provided for; Special Dinners
and Hot Suppers may be had at any time by giving reasonable
notice. The Cuisine is under the direct and experienced super-
vision of the proprietress, and the cooking and general service
are, without exception, the best in the Southern Hemisphere.
Driving
is doubly enjoyable when the
vehicle Is fitted wilh
DunlopKelly
Rubber Tyres
NO NOISE. NO RATTLING
AND
NO REPAIR BILLS
S«jol3 lox Illt»*tr«te4 PxJLc« List
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. BERTH. BRISBANE AND
CHRISTCHURCH. N.l. p
DUNLOP
RUBBER HEELS
are (he Highest Grade on
the Market, and can be relied
on to give excellent wear,
owing to the Pure Rubber
used in manufacture—«
Specify “ DUNLOP" Brand
+ <? * ALU BOOT SWOPS * + 4>
N.S.W. Depot:
ISO Clarence Street,
Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Sydney Liedertafel conductor, Arundel Orchard, ’tie
said, follows ex-’Tafel conductor Alfred Hill, of “Tapu,”
into the fields of comic opera composition. Messrs.
VV. J. Curtis and Hunt are responsible for the “book.”
Carrie Moore was said to be returning to Australia this
year, but if she ever had the intention she must have
abandoned it. The lively Carrie made a big hit in the
panto, at Liverpool, which ran 13 weeks under Kobert
Courtneidge’s management, and he has now engaged her
for one of his next Xmas pantos. Also, he talks of giving
her a good show in a London production—a new musical
comedy. Courtneidge reckons that the girl from
Australia, if given a fair chance to shine in the Big Smoke,
will shine with the best of them anon.
A Melbourne theatrical photographer affirms that
Rickards’ stars nearly always wear more swollen heads
than those imported by any other manager.
Tired of despatching musicians to England, Adelaide
has now sent a local production in the actor way—Harold
Parks, an 18-year-old warehouse employee, and a clever
mimic.
“E.”: Rickards’s first parts are admittedly not good.
His show depends on the imported stars, and nothing
else is supposed to matter. A remedy would be to have
the first spasm strictly local. Now everybody sings coon
or coster songs, with a massive ignorance of coon or
coster character, speech, and costume. But what a fine
new field is open in Collingwood, the Rocks, Manly or
liyabrain for a good man who can follow a distinct line of
his own ! Local characters, local songs, local comedians —
that would be something to work on.
Miss Maud Jeffries will shortly retire from the stage for
a while for domestic reasons.
Writing recently from London, Australian singer Kate
Rooney proudly stresses the fact that she has reached the
“ refusing stage ” of her career.
Young August Siede, who aspires to be Australia’s first
symphonic poet, was sorely disappointed in not being able
to get his “hove Triumphant” performed by Peterson’s
orchestra, at the Melbourne Town Hall, last week. The
work was not sufficiently rehearsed, so they didn’t
attempt to show what it’s made of, and Siede’s antici-
pated hour of triumph is not yet. The next concert of
the Petersonian series happens on May 9, and will be com-
posed of chamber music.
It is the Yank musical pirate that bothers Australia,
Such a firm as Allan’s, of Melbourne, is constantly arguing
out the piracy business with smaller houses in court.
And it’s all American stuff. The smart NeW Yorker puts
his scruples in his back pocket, takes a well-known publi-
cation of honorable Bwitish upbringing (such as “ The
Holy City ”) and cribs it in toto, minus the imprint; and
all that can be done is to seize the goods at the Customs,
Almost any singable song no tv carries a heavy royalty
both to the singer and composer, and the pirate business
is a deadly Unfair one,
“Drifter”: t am fascinated by the personality of a
portly, old-time, comic-opera chorus singer of Williamson
Co. Have watched him, arrayed in changing picturesque-
ness, behind the footlights, for many years, and he lias
“swelled wisibly before my werry eyes.” As a soldier
armed with a tin battle-axe, a bloodthirsty pirate, a
bucolic peasant, boss of an ice-cream cart, or scent-
bottle bearer to Marcus Superbus, his rotundity never
failed to catch my eye. Occasionally he gets a
line, delivers it with brilliant oratory, then retires
to the chorus ranks with the air of a man who has
left nothing for the star actor to go on with. As an old
and privileged character, he is allowed to indulge in little
bits of original stage business, and a happy heart thuds
in the mighty bosom when a frivolous audience roars as
he changes hats with a chorus girl, or tries to climb a tree
painted on the canvas. Saw him roaming through the
Domain lately, wearing a brown slouch hat, and tragic
scowl. He was evolving some side-splitting projectile to
hurl at the audience that night, so I crept past on tip*toes
not to disturb him.
“G.” : Discovered at. Melb. performance of “ Tambour
Major ” that there is a difference between the professional
and the amateur leg:. That of the only professional in the
company, Miss Maudie Thornton, is a thing of beauty and
a joy for ever ; not solely owing to its pleasing propor-
tions, but to the fact that it knows by long experience to
behave as a stage leg should. The understandings of the
amateur chorus are failures, There are many of them
quite up to professional, standard as far as mere outline is
concerned, but they lack that combination of repose and
saucy insolence that the professional leg exhibits.
Even the most exalted politicians who at-
tend the Turkish Baths prove by the impedimenta
they shed that they are decidedly Of the earth
earthy. Constant Turkish Bathing should do
much to make politics cleaner. “ Oh, yes,” say the
many medicos who attend Daly’s new baths, at
the Melbourne Royal Arcade, “we always re r
commend the baths, especially to politicians, and
trust they may improve their principles as well as
themselves,”*
John Sands, of Sydney, has just published
what is, to date, emphatically the best map of
Sydney and its surroundings. The map shows the
municipalities (and also both the lack and the
excess of municipalities), the tram, train, and
ferry routes, and makes the city as an open book.
Published at a guinea, the map is worth it.
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch send the 1905
issue of the Australian Handbook, a publication
almost unequalled in Australia for comprehensive-
ness of information and excellence of arrangement.
Besides dealing exhaustively with Commonwealth
and individual State affairs, it supplies a calendar
of notable events, a useful business-directory, and
includes numerous well-executed maps.


LIVE LONGER
ANO
Enjoy Life Better !
YOU CAN IF YOU WILT, KKHP
YOUR STOMACH, T.IVf-R ANO
KIDNEYS HKAUTHY AND
ACTIVE
By Taxing Thirty Drops of
Mother Seidel's Syrup, the world's remedy
lor indigestion, coustipatiou. biliousness
gild all stomach and liver disorders, n
cuied Miss Martrret Raven, who lives at
127. Quay Street. Ultimo, Sydney, of chronic
indigestion that had baffled the shill of
her doctors. "If they will only profit by
my experience" she says, "I am sine that
no one need suffer from indigestion, who
will give Mother Seigel's Syrup a lair trial. ’
MOTHER
SEIGEL'S
SYRUP,
DAILY AFTER IDEALS.
“ GRAND PRIX ” PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK,
DAY
fhdfd
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyj amas,
Children’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
CURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
Tkt Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.
LT Piv£f^3
THE LA TEST PARISIAN PERFUME.
Wholesale Only.
MID DOWS BROTHERS,
73 C/arence-street,
Ana at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Adelaide, and Wellington, N.Z.
68
YEARS DYEIMGr
FOR THE LADIES.
'W-. G. ELDHIGG-E & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDIEY
oj>p. Centenary Hall).
C ountiy Ch ders by post fvoni oil the colonies promptly
attended to.
I
■>r>
Kerosene
Bath Heaters.
To fix yourself.
No Plumber wanted.
From £3 ss.
Send for Catalogue on Gas
or Wood Heaters.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt
Street, Sydney. 197-422 Eliza-
beth St., Melbourne.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYUKTEY.
<r
jmtmm
PS
bbehbbbßß
U£
c
m
m --- ■
M
S2jjf*
9MBI
Sr** 1 '
*OWsm
bBLiK
I'Jsl3 he on
If few at
263
265
Clarence
Street.
Send for
Cata-
logue
3 h.p.
Fitted with
MAGNETIC
IGNITION.
SAROLEA I
MOTOR
CYCLES
Are the ideal mode of
locomotion fcr Australian
require menis. They have
tong since passed the ex-
perimental stage, and, after
sc me years of development,
cue mw taking their place
as vehicles of great practical
utility. They are capable of
any speed from 3 to 35 miles
per hour, arid can be ridden
over any road, bridle path or
track that may be travelled by
a bicycle. They are as fast as
a railway train, yet more con-
venient, because they carry the
passenger from his own door to
the journey’s end. They are as
safe as anything that moves on
two wheels, not difficult to under-
stand or to manage. They can be
ridden by any bicycle rider after a
little tuition, and the cost of running
them averages from 2s. to 2s. 6d.
per 100 miles -about one-fourth the
cost of second-class railway travel-
ling. If a man’s occupation compels
him to travel, the “ SAROLEA ” Motor
Cycle will enable him to largely increase
his income. With it the medical man
can visit double the number of patients
in a given time, and attend emergency
cases far more promptly than by any
other means. The commercial man who
/travels light can work three towns to the
other fellow’s one, and be independent of
train or coach. A man with business in-
terests in several places miles apart can
look after them more closely with the aid of
the “SAROLEA.” it will not enable him to be
j in two places at the one time, but the next
best thing to it.
To the Sportsman—the man who rides for
fun—we say the “SAROLEA ” Motor Cycle is the
gamest tittle vehicle ever created. It is the
most fascinating means of locomotion. When
a man is astride the “SAROLEA ” he can go
fast or slow uphill, downhill, or on a level, not by
stabbing with spurs or flogging with whip, but
by a twist of the wrist or the touch of a little
lever, and it matters not whether the road be
wide and macadamised or a mere footpath or
j bridle-track, the “ SAROLEA ” will travel it.
The rider of the “SAROLEA ” can be active or in-
active —he can obtain exercise by pedalling if and
when he desires it. He can keep his head up and
his backbone straight whether going 5 miles per
hour or 25, can face a hill or a head wind with a smile,
I and can pass everything else on the road, including
the bicycle rider. These are some of the conditions that
I contribute to the charm of the Motor Cycle, and the
pleasures it affords are many and exquisite.
The Magnetic Attachment is a little dynamo acting
automatically to take the place of the dry battery, obviating
all necessity Tor re-charging. Send for Catalogue B.
RETAIL PRICES—2| h.p., £5O \ 2f h.p., £55;
3 h.p,, with Magnetic Ignition, £65; 5 h.p.,
Double Cylinder, £65. Cash or Terms arranged.
FRANK GRIM LEY, Limited,
263 & 265 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Will be on
.iv ' r
View at
263
265
Clarence
Streetc
•f*
Send for
Cata-
logue
Governessing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ "\7^ ou are wonderfully good to her,”
J said Mollie Dupont. Such an inanity
as she is, too. I—thanks—never
guessed you were so philanthropic.”
Muriel Fanshawe’s hands hovered daintily
among her teacups. She smiled ambiguously.
“Really,” Mollie protested, “I believe you
have some reason do tell ! ”
Muriel Fanshawe hesitated, wistfully. She
sugared a basin of weak tea for the dachshund
beside her chair, then, cup in hand, came over to
where Mollie sat luxuriously in the big cushioned
lounge. Her friend patted the cushions beside her.
“Come and be comfy, she cried, “and ’fess.”
“ Once,’ said Mrs. Fanshawe, putting awav her
eup and clasping her hands round her knee,
“ did you know—l I was a governess too?”
Mollie’s eyebrows went up, and her mouth
forihed a notj of interrogation.
“ We never had much to live on at any time.”
Mrs. l'anshawe threw away restraint. “And
when the banks failed, we insignificant atoms
were swept out of monetary existence. Luckily
we had, for mother, a woman who sacriliced
everything for duty. She married the eldest off
without compunction; she died within the year.
'1 he next girl she made companion to a semi-
maniac ; of me she made a governess.”
Mrs. kanshawe stared straight in front of her,
and her voice had giown very hitter. “I was con-
sidered unduly lucky, for 1 took up my duties in a
huge, red-brick mansion, from which carriages
turned in and out all day long. They were the
gayest of the gay, as there were several unmarried
daughters. I taught one girl, and in return for
the irksomeness of lessons, she paid me in her own
com. Ihe little fiend her name was Marie—over
our meals together, would recite all the trivial, yet
cutting slights and snubs that her elder sisters
lneted out to me. Many times Ive drunk my tea
salt with tears. You see, I was a home-sick,
br ken-spirited little wretch, and places Were
hard to get: I was countrified, and my scanty
frocks had been concocted, schemed over, and
finally cdt-out oil the kitchen-table at home 5
they were the one glaring defect in a household of
sumptuous clothes.
. “ Lessons—even Marie, with her jeering insinua-
tions—l could stand, but it was the evening I
dreaded ; the fact of being subtly baited before a
roomful of women, before the men came in. A
vicious woman has no scruples about showing her
viciousness.” She winced at the remembrance.
“Perhaps Belle’s voice—she was the eldest—
would call me, trying to hide my shabbiness in
some gorgeously curtained nook, and praying
unavailingly to be forgotten. ‘Would I bring
that photo,’ and across that glaring room with its
hideous grandeur, under the eyes of every vicious,
half-dressed woman in the room, would I, in my
shabbiness, have to go, intensely expectant of the
humiliating titters of that crew ; and not once was
I disappointed ! ”
She gave a jarring little laugh. The dachshund
had sunk crouching at her feet with reproachful
eyes. Mollie stretched out a fantastically ringed
little hand, then drew it back. Mrs. Fanshawe’s
eyes were hard and bright. “ One night they—
the bare-backed women—led by Belle, insisted I
should show them the step of an old dance, and
under the glaring chandelier, in the middle of the
room, with tears stinging my eyes, I danced for
them, and even now I can hear the shrill whisper-
ing chorus of ridicule at my down-at-the-heel
dowdy slippers and my frill-less petticoat of
flannel.”
“ Why?” asked Mollie, in exasperated indig-
nation.
“ Why ? O, places were hard to get with my
limitations, and I was afraid to venture home.
Any idea of hardship was pooh-poohed there, and
once, when I tried to tell how the ridicule hurt, I
—l—was laughed at. So I had just to go on.
“One night, I was being baited mercilessly
when the men came in before their time. I just
crawled into a window seat, abjectly miserable,
and ”
It was a long, long pause this time. Mollie sat
up. “And?”
“ All I can remember of that night afterwards
is—is a pair of brown eyes, indignant with pity ”
“Ho! ho!” said Mollie.
The next night I forget—all but the brown
eyes.”
And the next ? ” Mollie was inquisitive.
“I really don’t know,” said Mrs. Fanshawe,
hurriedly. “You see it was so dark in the
window seat.”
Mollie took another scone.
“Then—l don’t know how long afterwards—
they, one night—the bare-backed fiends I called
them to myself—excelled themselves. Someone
had pried into the window seat ! Even now I
grow hot with their taunts. I stood it as long as
I could; then Belle, who took more interest in the
brown eyes than was returned her, made a brutal
remark, and I broke down and rushed away in
rebellion. It was somewhere out on a side lawn.
I burrowed under the bamboos, and just— roared !
Mollie’s smile was one of sympathy.
“I remember it was dark under there, and
horribly damp, and that there were frogs,
when ”
“When?” said Mollie, anxiously.
“Someone came looking for me ’•
“With brown eyes” finished Mollie. “Well?”
“0 ! I vyent on howling and howling, for I felt
raw , but—it was no longer on the ground, in fact ”
reluctantly— “ I was decidedly comfortable, but I’m
afraid someone’s tie was irretrievably squashed.”
“Hm-m-m” it was a gentle reminder from
Mollie.
Mrs. Fanshawe lay back with her cheek against
the cushions. It may have been the rose pink
silk behind her that made her face so radiant.
‘.‘After a long while I cried myself out and
could attend—well, to other things, that occupied
some considerable time. Then,”—she sat up and
laughed—“ something occurred. Who should be
standing on the wet lawn, with their trains kilted
high, but Belle and the bare-backed brigade. I
remember”—slowly and with satisfaction—“they
said things ! ”
“Of course,” said Mollie.
“Of course ! ” said Mrs. Fanshawe, her eyes
twinkling. “I left that night. You see, Belle
had hazarded and lost. So I went home, but
only for a fortnight. Since then ”
Her eyes roamed contentedly round the room
and out through the window to where the lawns
fell in a green cascade to the harbor wall. She
patted Mollie’s hand, and gave it a little squeeze.
“ That’s why,” she said, beaming, “ I refuse to
trample on. Miss Harrison in my drawing-room.
That is why I see she has fresh tea and buttered
cakes when she would retire into the background.
That is why her salary enables her to revel in fri-
volous little blouses. Th—— Why here is
Gerald.”
“That is why !’* »said Mollie to herself, as the
owner of the brown *>yes walked in.
N.S.W,
CARO.


KRUPP
FRIEPKRUFP
p<DE
&
MP
i
'l- -- r
TUBE MILL
For WET GRINDING
OF GOLD ORE.
Slimes all Products to 200-250 Mesh, as
desired.
CAPACITY VERY LARGE. OCCUPIES SMALL SPACE.
jmoMgMm
All Wet Tube Mills working at
KALGOORLIE are
KRUPP TUBE MILLS,
Hannan’s Star, Oroya Brown Hill,
Lake View Consols, and other mines.
The Krupp tube Mills
are also in us© at mines in Mexico,
New Zealand, and South Africa , ...
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
\OYLA IP
Melbourne Sydney/
Impressions of S'Africa.
Durban to Johannesburg.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IMAGINE a Bulli Pass through 20 miles
of grassy ranges rising 5900 ft.,, and scarred
occasionally by deep gorges.
The colors are brighter than they would be in
Australia ; for along the road at every station are
groups of gaily-clad Indians, cultivators, pedlars,
storekeepers, railway porters, waggoners, dairy-
men, fruit-sellers—all the people that the train
passes seem to be Indians. The “ statesmen ”of
“ the good old days ” indentured coolies to culti-
vate tea and sugar, but forgot to make provision
for returning them when the term expired. They
married ; bought or rented land ; their children
became citizens; so that now a country of
innumerable deep-soiled combes, very like that
along the Central Railway in the Northern Island
of Maoriland, and better suited for intense culture
than any I have seen except the Channel Islands
—a country which is indeed the “garden ’ of
Natalian boast —nourishes Indian coolies instead
of white farmers ; and shows, from the windows of
a passing train, dirty huts, unpruned orchards,
fields just scratched with a plough, and every
other evidence of slovenly and backward hus-
bandry. Nor can Englishmen easily win back their
precious heritage. There are in the colony of
Natal 24,000 Indians as against G 3,000 Europeans ;
and a million of Kaffirs.
Near the summit of the ranges we look down
deep clefts of rock recalling the Blue Mountains—•
but the Blue Mountains as they would be after
being cramped in a vyce, their valley sides being
stripped of gum trees and carpeted with bright
green grass, and their bottoms luxuriant with
sub tropical growth.
Ladysmith and its battle-field were passed at
night. Daylight showed (near Glencoe Junction)
wide sweeps of treeless plain, so like the uplands
of Monaro that only the sight of a Kaffir kraal
could remove the illusion. There were the same
stone walls and wire fences ; the same glorious
cloud-scapes ; the same fresh exhilaration in the
sweeping wind and hazy distances. Settlement
was sparse ; and, as we neared the zig-zag round
Majuba Hill, the aspect of the country changed.
The hills became higher, rounder and more stony.
They had ceased to be hills and become “ kopjes.”
Majuba! what memories this name recalls !
An inglorious defeat to British arms; but also a
political decision of rare magnanimity and courage,
which won praise and respect for England even
from her enemies.
I well remember the incredulous comments in
the city of Angers (where I then was) on the first
news that Mr. Gladstone had made peace, and the
unwilling admiration given to this fine act of
moral courage, when the statement was confirmed.
Those Frenchmen voiced the opinion of all that
was then best upon the continent of Europe.
Yet, unless all contemporary evidence be rejected,
one must now reluctantly admit that the recent
war was—if, in our present state of knowledge,
any one event can be traced to any other —the
direct consequence of Mr. Gladstone’s untimely
lenience. For the Boers, as a nation, are said by
those who know them, to be unlike Europeans.
They have the virtues, the vices of a primitive
and isolated people ; they are suspicious, over-
reaching, and untruthful, even in their dealings
with each other, counting as the virtue of “slim-
ness” much which we would call “smart” or
“dishonest.” Such people, taken in the mass
(and it was a country where the mass governed),
were not able to appreciate magnanimity like Mr.
Gladstone’s. They honestly believed it to be
cowardice, and thus formed an impression which
cost many lives.
Nor are these the opinions of mere gossip or
prejudice. Men tilk very freely now about the
war—as is natural when leaders who opposed each
other in the field belong to the same clubs, have
common professional pursuits, and visit at each
other’s houses. So that even a passing stranger
may accept as true the opinions which he hears.
And let me set down another impression
founded on the same unanimity of testimony,
which (because The Bulletin is The Bulletin) I
am not afraid will be deleted by the editor. It is
this : Those who wrote and spoke in favor
of the Boers after the war began have wrought a
mischief which they never dreamt of. This again
came from a misunderstanding of the Boer charac-
ter. British pro-Boers did not realise that Boer
farmers were wholly unaccustomed to the free ex-
pression of opinion, and knew nothing of our
party system ; nor did they guess that carefully
selected extracts from their writings and speeches
(from The Bulletin among the rest) were being
sent into the camps for distribution, in order to
confirm the old idea of British timidity and justify
an expectation that the Colonial contingents
would be soon recalled, and peace declared upon
the Boer terms. Boer and British alike admit
that, next to the hope of German intervention,
the most potent cause of the continuance of the
war was a belief that there would be a Liberal
victory in the House of Commons. Thus British
Liberalism comes in for equal condemnation from
both parties in South Africa; from Boers who
think they were deluded into the prolongation of
a hopeless struggle; from Britishers who think
that lives of relatives and friends were sacrificed
to ignorance and faction. Verily, your “peace-
maker” may be a good “quarrel-monger.”
Nor were these the only elements of error in
the Boer calculations. “We could have licked
the British infantry,” said a well-known Boer
general, the other day, at the Rand Club, “but
we left the Colonial horsemen altogether out of our
account.”
The border crossed, the country changes.
Beyond the mountain chain, of which Majuba
Hill is a peak, lie both the Transvaal and the
veldt, a great expanse of rolling downs—the
train passes through similar country just outside
Melbourne. Flat stretches of rich pasture—
these are bits of Liverpool Bivins. Rectangular
streets lined with houses of galvanised iron—just
a bush township out of its place.
Game must have been abundant before settle-
ment ; water can be found in every bottom ; all
around is green pasture, without one patch of
bareness, and there is a crisp joy in the air
such as I have never breathed elsewhere. A
man might camp alone upon the veldt for many
months without experiencing that sense of
mystery and solitude which is the note of the
Australian bush. The soil, too, will grow any-
thing, judging from the cultivation round the
frequent farms. Certainly—though one sees at
present neither stock nor crops —this wide and
healthy plateau is a land of wealth, hope, and
promise, the ownership of which by Dutch or
British was a fitting prize for the arbitrament of
war. We may be glad, perhaps, that Australia
has no veldt.
Yet even this most favored land must have
its unseen drawbacks, if the statement of a
fellow-passenger be true that “ locusts always
eat the crops; and as for cattle, they either die
from poison-weed and rinderpest, or they do not
want to live !” Grumbling, however, is an imme-
morial privilege of the man upon the land, and
those who know Australia say that the problems
of South African development have never yet
been fairly tackled, and that difficulties, which are
thought nothing of by us, are here considered in-
surmountable. Certainly if we had the Transvaal
rainfall and the Transvaal soil we should make
light of the Transvaal pests.
But we should handle the land very differently
if we had it in Australia. We should begin by
putt.ng .nto it both more capital and more brains ;
and wool 1 insist-, as an essential preliminary,
upon a different class of settler from the old-time
Boer. For the Boer was not a farmer, nor, except
to meet his requirements as a nomad huntsman,
was he a raiser of stock ; and the traditions of his
wandering life lie heavy on him even now that he
is settled. Then, even were his habits different,
the size of his holding is a bar to its most protit-
able use, being too large to be farmed with his
slender capital and too small for either sheep or
cattle. From GOOO to 10,000 acres is the size of
the holdings between the Natal boundary and
Johannesburg. Nor can a settler easily acquire a
larger area, and all the Boer instincts are against
subdivision. A Boer will let his land readily and
at a cheap rent; but his price for sale, if he will
sell at all, is based upon the assumption that
underneath every farm in the Transvaal is another
Rand reef. One longs in travelling all the day
through these untilled lands and empty pastures
to be permitted to try, for the space of 10 years,
the fertilising influence of a land-tax.
Australians greet one at every turn. They
assure me they are not on ticket-of-leave ; and
that the South African gibe about the Australian
mail being always delivered at the local gaol is
quite undeserved, although olir later contingents
did leave over a sprinkling of “scallywags.”
Colonel Stokes, of Newcastle (N.S.W.), who is
now engineer in charge of a district, joins the train
at Standerton, and is loud in his praise of the
country. “It might be anything if they would
only spend the money that Australia spends upon
development ! ”
At Johannesburg more Australians at every
turn, until I begin to believe that the Rand Club,
and not Port Said or Piccadilly Circus, is the
World’s universal meeting - place. Percival
Waddy, ex-Sydney barrister, is commercial
editor of the Transvaal Lkadkr. Mr. W. H.
Vivian, a former colleague of Mr. J. H. Young in
the representation of the Hastings and Macleay,
has one daughter married here, another engaged,
and is himself upon the Stock Exchange. Sey-
mour Fort, Sir Henry Loch’s private secretary, is
busy with finance and politics, and poor R. H.
Luscombe lies at the hospital battered in health
and fortune. Will not the Protectionists of New
South Wales subscribe a few pounds to bring this
sturdy old champion of their cause back to his
native land ? Perhaps Mr. Sparkes will see to
th is ?
But the best impression of a strange country
ought to be obtained from its press ; and here
are the Johannesburg morning papers. In form,
arrangement and style of writing they resemble
ours ; but what is this subtle difference which can-
not be accounted for by the local nature of the
news and comments? One feels this difference
from the first, but only after some days under-
stands that it is a reflection of the wider world in
which the Transvaal moves, and that the greater
distance of Australia from the centres of life and
thought, and its more intense national feeling,
though they have many advantages, yet also have
the compensating disadvantages of dulness and
provincialism.
Only by looking at Australia from outside can
we perceive that she is lying in a backwater, and
that the main stream of civilisation is passing us
by. So it must always be while we are dependent
upon one syndicate for cable-news. We are four
millions of people, but our daily impressions of
the outside world are such as one journalist in
London chooses to give. us. What he cables we
may know : what he omits is for us as though it
had never been.
It is good that Australians should give their
first thoughts to everything Australian ; but more
events of interest must occur among 40 millions of
British people, whose civilisation is picturesque
and varied, than among ourselves, whose life is
raw and uniform. The newspapers in South
Africa, whose people are in closer touch with
Europe, appreciate this truism, and present
every morning the most striking European
events in such a form that their readers
feel them to be a part of their own lives.
.Tohannesburgers would not be content to have
their smaller European news recorded a month
after it has happened, in ponderously playful
fitters, as if they were a lot of intelligent pro-
vincials being shown the sights of a metropolis for
the first time.
When will the day come that we have State-
owned cables, and can read in Australia the
European news that can be got in any morning-
paper in South Africa or die United States ?
LONDON.
B. R. WISE.
If you have a slight “ down ” on the bald
scalp it stands to reason that the hair root must
still be in existence. “ Capilla ” Hair Tonic will
electrify that “down” into strong, healthy h lir
and supply to the hair-bulb the nourishment that
it licks. All chemists and stores sell “Capilla”
2s. 6d. a bottle, G bottles (full course) posted
direct 17s. 3d. W. O. Richards, Inventor, IG4
Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne —(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
The Commonwealth Government had best
consider how far missionary influence is likely to
stultify the official administration of New Guinea
One rev., recently returned from a mission in
Papua, lectured in Glasgow on Feb. 8, and is
reported : —-
My house was built by the natives under fear of the
approach of the Government gunboat. It cost me little,
for labor was cheap. I paid the Scriptural wage of a
penny a day. The complete cost was three shillings and
sixpence, paid in tobacco.
Here is a parson bragging of the enslavement of
niggers being backed up by Commonwealth force.
“ Watt Hoe ” : I met a virulent specimen
of the grumbling cocky, the other day. He was
leaning over his slipraiis, watching about 80 acres
of as gocd a crop of wheat as could be seen in
Maoriland. I ventured to think aloud that it was
the best crop in Canterbury. He looked at me
with a don’t-know-where-tp-get-the-next-meal sort
of expression, slowly stroked his beard, gazed
dolefully at the waving corn, then growled, in a
broken voice, “ Aye, but it’s very sore on the
gr (fluid.”
Mrs. L. S. HAGER, Alexis, N. C., writes :
“ I was attacked by PNEUMONIA. Our best physician
pronounced it severe and dangerous, being in both right
and left sides. As the disease did not respond to treat-
ment, I resorted to Jayne’s Expectorant, and in a few
days I was able to be up and walk about, and soon began
work again.”*


p®’ F6l37.—Very handsome “Louis” design
Presentation Tea and Coffee Service ; Best Silver-
Plated, on Hard Nickel Silver, £l6 10s.
No. 0*721 —Silver-Plated Sauce Boat on Tray
{suitable Wedding- Gift this. Price 18s lid.'
Ko. G 4591.— Solid Silver Satin-lined
Jewel Case and Pin Cushion combined
27s 6d»
Net; Gtl24S.—Polished English Oak Salad Bowl
with Servers : China-lined, Mounts and Servers
Silver-Plated, 30s.
No. E2359.—A Novel Wedding- Gift. A Silver-plated
and Embossed Sugar Basin and Cream Jug
on a Tray* £i 10s.
YOU can buy from us just as safely and satisfactorily by letter as if you came in Derson You nan
return at once any article that is not to your liking 1 , and we will exchanp*p if or rpfnn/i
chase money. We post, everything- free on receipt of Se lowing FWe IlufstrSed
Catalogues are Free ; write for whichever you are interested in :-“Our General Catalogue ” “ Onr
Watch Catalogue, Greenstone Jewellery,” “ Gifts for Babies,” “ Presentation Goods.” °
No. G3ll3.—Cut
Glass and Solid
Silver Smelling’
Salts Bottle, 9/6.
hfd
No. G 3171.
Silver - plated
Tea Caddy
Spoon, 4s 6d.
No. 01455. —The Patent Orange Put. or,
sSil\ er-plated. Takes the peel off
quickly and cleanly, Is 6d.
No. E6sll.—Very Handsomely-Mounted Comb
Hall-Marked Silver, 11 a 6d.
No. G 3404. —Satin-liiled Jewel Case of Trinket Box,
4in. long-, Best Silver-plate, 14s 6d.
No. I - ’ 1340. Ufcst Massive
English Cut-Glass and Silver-
plated Claret Jug, £2 ss.'
Solid Silver Handker-
chief Bags. These are
now quite the correct
thing. An Assortment
of styles, £3 12s Gd,
£3 15s, £3 17s Gd,
mmm
No. E7122.—-Toilet Set, comprising Powder Jar, Hair and
Safety Pin Boxes, and Heart Shape Jewel Box,
on Tray, Strongly Silver-plated, £3.
No. F2B7s.—The Apple Jam Dish.
Clear glass, Silver-plated Stand,
Cover and Spoon, 11s 6d.
h
No. 82384.—Cut Glass
Butter Dish Silver-
plated Sta’, and
No. E 3792.—
plated Tea
\ery hands°m e design, full size, Silver-
and Coffee Service. Just the thing tor
Presentations. £9 10s.
N° F 9689 -Our Special Field-Glass, of good quality,
complete in Leather Case with Strap and Cord.
Price only 21s.
IBS
m
No. Gl969.—The Most Popular Flower Vase of To-Day
—Best Plate, Weighted Bases, height s|in. 8s 6d,
6Jin. 9s (id, 7fin. 10s 6d.
No. F4Bl6.—Very Smart full-s'ze Tea and Coffee
Service. Good Quality Plate on Nickel Silver,
£8 10s. "■
£ aster v/s/tors
How's Your Sight 7
Maybe you can’t see so well as you’d like to
While in town have the benefit of skillful ex-
ances? Ce m ° dern scientific sight-testing appli-
You’ll Get It Here.
Examination and ad vice Free. Our Prices are
the -Lowest m Sydney.
A. SAUNDERIi.
English Rolled Gold Frames, fitted ordinary
lenses, 12/6. Astigmatic Lenses, 21/. Solid Gold,
26/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-. Our Crystalite Specs, 3/6.
Pure Pebble Specs, 4/6, 7/6, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller, Silversmith and
Optician, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George Street,
opposite Railway Station, Sydney.
pTfAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW.
PRIZES £3500. PRIZES
SPECIAL EXCURSION TRAINS ALL LINES.
P. WEBSTER, Secretary.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
COLOSSAL CIRCUS, MENAGERIE
AND ELEPHANT SHOW.
belmor-e i=»
OS’ AN INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS !
CHEERED NIGHTLY by THOUSANDS of DELIGHTED
VISITORS.
Direct from London, per s.s. Seydlitz,
THE HERBERT TROUPE
of AERIAL GYMNASTS, in the LOFTY DOME of
COLOSSAL SNOW-WHITE TENTS
THE ELEPHANTS,
with COEYANNA, THE ELEPHANTINE BABY.
THE FAMOUS JAPANESE SUMO WRESTLERS.
THE BEAUTIFUL HORSES.
THE STRANGE WILD ANIMALS.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
And WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 3, and
HOLIDAYS.
A SUPERB BAND.
PERFECT LIGHTING, EVERY COMFORT AND
CONVENIENCE IN SEATING.
BELMORE PARK. BELMORE PARK.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, and Is.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. FRANK JONES, Agent.
E-J £R MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Colossal
Attraction,
THE ORCHID.
For Brilliancy in Mounting-, Hilarity and Tunefulness
has never been surpassed in Sydney.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Under the Direction of Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
EVERY EVENING PUNCTUALLY at 8,
MR. GEO. STEPHENSON’S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
IN
THE SKIRT DANCER.
Matinees Every Wednesday. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
T ° W N HALL, SYD N E Y.
COMMENCING — SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 22.
AND SHORT SEASON TO FOLLOW,
THE FAMOUS
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS.
NEW ARTISTS, including*
MR. CLARENCE TISDALE, a Tenor of Great Merit.
IL COLLINS, Manager.
THEATRE R O Y A L, SYD N E Y.
a Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
A GREAT SUCCESS,
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT and Miss MAUD JEFFRIEB
in th-. Great Spectacular Napoleonic Play,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
?. ox . Plan at Elv V & Co -’ s - PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s and Is.
SCOTTISH ENTERTAINER,
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter op
ROBERT BURNS and lAN MACLAREN.
Address : The Bulletin.
Amusements.
TTNDER Patronage of His Excellency the Govern or-
General and Lady Northcote, and the Highland
Society of N.S.W.
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA,
JESSIE MACLACHLAN,
THE SCOTTISH PRIMA DONNA.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
MAY 3rd, sth and 6th,
Assisted by
JOHN McLINDEN, CELLIST, and ROBERT
BUCHANAN, PIANIST.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager, e/o Paling’s.
QUEEN’S HALL, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee Mr. J. A. Miller.
OPEN TO-DAY from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.
SUCCESS ®f the FAMOUS AMAZON GIANTESS,
-A JES O IVE A KC,
THE TALLEST LADY IN THE WORLD.
ADMISSION, is. ; CHILDREN, 6d.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. Wiliiam Anderson.
GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION,
Commencing, EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 22,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN,
in the New and Original Life-like Play,
A GIRL’S CROSS ROADS
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
N OVERWHELMIN G CROWD,
A SCENE OF DAZZLING BRIGHTNESS at
WIRTH BROS/
CIRCUS, HIPPODROME, HUGE ZOO,
NIGHTLY.
A RECORD CROWD, A RECORD SHOW,
A RECORD OF THRILL.
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney
(EXHIBITION GROUND), Ablaze with Splendor.
THE WHOLE SHOW A PHENOMENAL SUCCESS.
CHEFALO, THE GREAT, LOOPING THE LOOP.
COLQUETT, THE MODERN SPRING-HEELED JACK,
and CAPT. M’LOUD’S WILD WEST SHOWS.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS, and
EASTER MONDAY.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, and Is. Children Half-price to all
Parts, except Gallery. Box Plan at Paling’s.
NOTICE TO COUNTRY VISITORS.
As the Circus is too Big to visit the country towns your
only chance of seeing this Show is at PRINCE ALFRED
PARK, SYDNEY.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d; Posted, Bd.
Amusements.
T" ' V , °J- 1 THEATRE, SYDNEY.
bole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and EASTER MONDAY.
EVERYBODY MYSTIFIED by
THE MAGIC KETTLE.
A HUGE SUCCESS, KA. I=B. A..
MISS ALICE PIERCE.
the rollos, G. DEAN &c., &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor U Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
GREATEST SUCCESS EVER KNOWN,
LITTLE TIC S 3, WOE S„V°K TEBT
PROF. DAVY’S G3ANT MARIONETTES.
BELLA PERMAN, FRANK YC-RitE, MAUD PERMAN.
STEVE ATBON, Irish Comedian, t ESSIE THOME, Serio
Conic. (JAMES ROBERTS, Basso Vocalist.
WINTON, Ventriloquist, and M’CiNTY.
Great Saccess of NAT TRAVERS, Coster Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), LAST NIGHT
of the GRAND REVIVAL of Offenbach’s Great Military
Spectacular Comic Opera,
La Fille du Tambour Major.
Exceptional!}' Powerful Cast of Distinguished Artists.
Prices of Admission—4s.. 2s. 6d., 2s. & Is. Early Door Is.
Extra. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 22 (EASTER SATURDAY),
Re-appearance of BLA\D HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Brilliant Drury Lane Melodrama,
The Best of Friends.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
g_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
ANDREW MACK,
and HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY of PLAYERS in
TOM MOORE,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 22, Re appearance of the
Celebrated Young Tragedienne,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE,
in Sardou’s Masterpice,
THEODORA.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
Princes’ Court, Melbourne .
THE PREMIER PLEASURE GROUND OF
AUSTRALASIA.
CANADIAN YVATER=CHUTE,
CAMEL=BACK TOBOGGAN,
Cafe Ciiantant, Mysterious Myosa, Great Dragon
Tugaroo, Rifle Range, Japanese Tea House,
Military Band. Daily, 2.30 to 11 p.m.
A. L. BAIRD, Gen. Manager.
•, ?^ emer Tom Bent had a high old time at
Melbourne University commencement. The
ructionary youths met a kindred hobbledehoy in
lommy ; and as guying had no effect upon Bent,
who has a hide like a vegetable-marrow, the
students joined forces with the elephantine
personage, and Tommy led their choruses in a
terrible falsetto voice. The Premier’s singing
sounded like the excited remarks a hen makes
before having her head struck off with an adze,
and he made a shocking spectacle, standing before
that; large and fashionable audience in his
capacious bags of black and his solemn coat,
singing fatuous werses, mostly in praise of
himself, with the sweat roiling down his
pyramidal head exactly as if a little fountain were
spraying from it. Tom Bent sang three verses in
his own honor and one to the glory of a
lady, and, though the assemblage was supposed
to represent the “elite” of Melbourne in the
matter Of intellect, taste and position, nobody
seemed to discover anything incongruous in the
spectacle of this political performing elephant
trumpeting his own praises till he was swamped
m his own dew.


The “ GOERZ” Binocular
FIELD GLASS.
fdhfhd
The FINEST GLASS IN THE WORLD.
Good for any Distance up to 20 Miles.
SUITABLE FOR TOURIST, RACES,
MARINE, MILITARY, and all uses, and
absolutely invaluable to the Squatter.
Price £8 10s.
Size No. 9 —that is, magnifying nine times as
much as the ordinary Field-Glass.
In Solid Leather Case, with Name
or Initials stamped in Cold.
A LIMITED NUMBER ONLY AT THIS PRICE. ~WI
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“My Opticians
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
<s>
Why You
Should Buy the New Oldsmobile
It is the simplest and most reliable runabout made—2s,ooo now
in use; the car that has been driven 3,500 miles across
the American continent; the only one in its class that took the
highest awards in the English Reliability Runs in 1903.
Seven proven horse power, 3 Inch tires, no gaskets, weigns 1,100 lbs’,
splendid hill climber. Increased power, speed and strength over former
models.
Send to nearest agent for handsome catalogue showing Olds-
mobile light Tonneau Car, Touring Runabout and Delivery Car.
Olds Motor Works, Detroit. Michigan. U. S. A.
Australasian Agents: Duncan & Fraser, Adelaide, S.A.; Hall & Warden,
Melbourne, Vic.; American Motor Car & Vehicle Co., Perth, W.A.; James
Smith & Sons, Brisbane, Q.; A. C. Webster & Sons, Hobart, Tas.;
w. A. Ryan & Co., Auckland, N.Z.
fh
Rothwell's
Only Address,
Edward Street,
Brisbane.
The Best Value 21/- PANAMA In the Commonwealth.
Send for one. Cash refunded if not pleased. [4
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£ung Tonic
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can b 3 obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives,
d
CONGREVE’S
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price 6d., Poet Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
Oft. RICHARD WALLACE,
M.D., L.R.0.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M,
fhd
TO
SYDNEY
If you are ill, call on us. Our Specialists will give you Good Advice Free.
We have FOUR LEGALLY-QUALIFIED DOCTORS to advise you. We are
Experts in the Treatment of MEN’S SERIOUS DISORDERS. We do not
experiment. We cure to stay cared, wnere others fail.
Visitors to Sydney for the Easter holidays will have an opportunity whilst in town of calling at our Institute and consulting
the various members of its Medical and Surgical Staff entirely Free, for we make no charge for any friendly chats upon Medical
matters which may be productive of ultimate good.
At this time of the year thousands of people gravitate to the Metropolis on pleasure bent. If any visitor is afflicted with any
Specific Disease resulting from certain causes, and fails to obtain the necessary treatment in the remote country parts from which
he comes, he should not neglect the opportunity of receiving these Free consultations, whilst they are offered to him. Opportunity
is not a gift for fools. To-morrow, when you are far away in your country home, you may not have the chance of consulting us.
FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS may be consulted at the one time. Operations will
be arranged, if necessary ; also private appointments. The Physician-in-Chief, Dr. Wallace, will be in attendance at the
Institute each morning during the Easter holidays from 10 to 1 a.m. and 7to 9 p.m. Patients specially recommended by any one
who has received treatment at the Institute are requested to state the direct sources of such recommendations.
FACTS THAT DEFY
ARGUMENT.
We are treating: thousands of cases annually,
and is it not reasonable to suppose that we
understand such cases better than those who
are treating only a few hundred? Practice
makes perfect in any line, and it is none the
less true in the treatment of disease. You get
the benefit of Experience when you place your
case in our hands. Do not despair. Order
your treatment at once, and let us add your
name to our long list of cures.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind
that our treatment will not cure you, it is a
duty you owe to yourself to write to some of
the references we publish, and send an ad-
dressed envelope for reply. We court the
closest investigation. Our Parcel Post System
is a blessing to all sick men living in centres far
from medical men and aid. Thousands of men
would now be in their graves had we not reached
and treated them by our Parcel Post System.
Mr. JAMES C. STERLING, of De-
vonport, N.Z., who suffered from
INSOMNIA, after three months’
treatment, writes i—
“ I despaired of ever obtaining relief from
your methods, I had tried so many sources
unsuccessfully. lam glad to say, however,
that I am better now than I have been for
years. I now sleep splendidly, and am fast
regaining my health in consequence.”
DEAD MEN TEEL NO TALES.— It has been said that dead men tell no tales. This may be perfectly true in many
instances, but in thousands of cases it may be regarded as a popular error. Thousands of men who have died from premature
decay, early deaths caused by insidious diseases which have been neglected in their incipiency, although dead and in their graves
tell the history of disease and blighted life. A man whose constitution and health is threatened with ruin by the presence of a
Vital Disorder runs the risk of early death unless he is competently and skilfully treated by a Specialist who thoroughly under-
stands the causation and phenomena of the said ailment. There are thousands of men in Australia to-day who are living monu-
ments to the expert and timely skill afforded them by the Specialists of
= Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
whose Staff of Experts have been consulted in time. „
We have cured so many thousands of cases of Varicocele, Rupture, Prostatic Diseases and other ailments associated with
the Nerve and Blood Systems that if there is a cure for your disease you will find it at our Institute. With proper obedience to our
Medical instructions and by faithfully following our methods there is no such thing as failure to our treatment, and if there is a cure
for your disease you will find it at our hands.
We will explain how and why we can cure you and why DISEASES OF MEN require the skill of the Specialist. Natural aptitude claims a
man to certain pursuits. You seldom find one man a good Carpenter, Baker, Shoemaker, or Grocer and his own Physician, but you do find men
who, by applying themselves to certain trades and professions become perfect.
The Public recognise quickly the greatest good for the greatest number, especially where Medical study is applied to the ills of humanity
In treating the AILMENTS OF MEN there is a vast field for human study, and it is impossible for one man to generalise the disease with suflb
cient effectiveness to be successful. KANE, the great American Specialist, says “ There is no branch of Science which demands such special
knowledge of any class of diseases which require such special treatment as Pelvic Diseases or Complaints effecting the Nerve and Blood Systems.
In these Diseases the Specialists of THE FREEMAN AND WALLACE INSTITUTE excel because they are continuously treating individual
cases. They do not profess to treat all diseases, but they cure all they treat. By reason of the great cures effected by them they are recognised
throughout Australia. They make a point, in the interests of the public good, of giving to any individual FREE ADVICE, if required. They advertise
because by this means they perpetuate a principle of the greatest good for the greatest number. They assert their privileges as men and Citizens to
tell the world what their success has been.
The Physician-in-Chief, DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., is a
Speeialist of International renown, and much of his experience has
been gained with the British Army. He is registered by Australian,
English, and American Medical Boards, which prove his credentials
and ability. He may be consulted for the price of one letter or post
card only, which will be replied to punctually. Applicants will,
however, please mention the Sydney Bulletin, and cut out this advt.
when applying. His 600-page Medical Work, “CLINICAL EXPERI-
ENCES,” profusely illustrated, will be posted free to any address in
Australasia. “ A genuine Medical work.— Sunday Times, Perth.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL & SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.O.P., &, Physician-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Department of Women.
AND AT
MELBOURNE.
The (Horse-) Marine Philanthropist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•' Do ktl the shipping co.’s rua boats to Austra-ha out
of mere philanthropy ) ”—B. 16/SI’OS.
Yet see as I’m ’aggard an’ worn, sir,
An' ragged, an’ old, an’ poor,
A-sweepin' th’ street fer a crust, sir,
A-keepin’ th’ wolf from the door !
An’, ter see me, yer never ’ud think, sir,
As wunst I cud ’old up me ’ead
With the best. No, it warn’t th’ drink, sir,
As down tc this misery led.
'Twas me huncle (hexcuse these few tears, sir)
As died ov a colic, one day,
Hinduced by lmnlimited beers, sir,
W’ile ’eated from seein’ the play,
Which 'e left me ’is fortune, ’e did, sir—
Steamship shares in th’ Wallaby Line
O’ th’ value o’ ten thousan’ quid, sir—
W’y I thort as the ’ole world was mine !
And we planned (that is, Lizzie an’ me did)
*Ow we’d travel across to Boolong,
Appendin’ our oof as we needed,
A doin’ th’ gay Oontinong.
But we found as our light-’arted dreamin’
Wus jest a delooshun an’ snare,
One moment our flees wus beamin’ —
Th’ next we wuz plunged in despair.
Fer the’ Wallaby Line wus a failure :
It cared not for silver or gold.
It sent liout its ships to Hostrylyer
Wi’ nothin’ but tracts in the ’old.
An’ it ran its magniffercent liners
On a trooly beneverlent plan,
Fer they never took ’eed o’ th’ shiners,
But worked fer their pore feller-man.
An’ now I’m a-strivin’ an’ sweatin’
To pay up me whack on them shares,
Fer pore passengers mustn’t be let in
To pay up th’ company’s fares.
An’ think o’ th’ rows and th’ ructions
In every Uostrylian State,
If we didn't make reg’lar reductions
Ov a ’undred per cent, on our freight 1
An’ if so be yer travel ter Glory
(An’ I'm sure, sir, I’m ’opin yer may),
Remember th’ hold chairman’s story
As yer gaze on th’ sainted harray,
Fer yer’ll see w'ere the hangels are flittin’
With their pinions an’ ’alos on show,
The steamship directors a-sittin’
On th’ seats w’ere th’ boss angels go.
JASON.
“ Impoverish the country, drain it of its
mineral wealth, sap its natural life, people it
with the scum of China and with a mongrel
progeny begotten in the lowest degradation. And
for what ? In order that mining scrip may rise,
and that fat dividends may become fatter. ” The
Age on the state ot S’Africa, April 3, 1905.
The Bulletin refrains from quoting the Age
during the war, but David Syme is wonderfully
wise after the act, and seems to forget that in his
own way he did as much to bring about the
condition he deplores as the worst Randlord of
them all.


Thousands Owe
Their Lives to the
Skill of This
Wonderful Doctor.
+
Seems to Possess Strange
and Mysterious Power over
Disease.
Offers His Services Free to
the Sick and Afflicted 9
Distance no Barrier.
For the past three years accounts have come from
America of the most astonishing" nature, regarding"
marvellous cures that were being' performed daily by the
famous physician and scientist, Dr. James W. Kidd.
At first these stories were received with considerable
doubt, but there continued to come reports of men and
women being restored to health after years of suffering.
Chronic and so-called incurable invalids were brought
back to perfect health. There seemed no affliction or
disease but what he might cure. Thousands of patients
were treated by the doctor until his name and the fame
of his marvellous remedies spread all over the civilized
world. Investigation has proved every assertion made by
Dr. Kidd. Some of the stories told and letters received
from grateful patients seem to indicate that this man’s
remedies possess a mysterious power over disease. No
matter how severe the case, how chronic, or how long
standing, what other men have said or failed to do. These
are the cases he especially solicits, because they give him
a chance to prove his superior ability.
When asked the secret of his success, the doctor
modestly answers that it is partly due to the wonderful
remedies which he uses and partly to the careful attention
given each case. He treats patients all over the civilized
world by mail, and seems equallv as successful as though
they were present in his office. His greatest ambition' is
to give every sick, afflicted and suffering man and woman
in the world a chance to try his wonderful treatment. In
an interview recently the doctor said: “I believe that
I have discovered a way to relieve most of the sufferin'-'
from sickness and disease in the world, and I believe that
it is my duty as far as possible to make this fact known to
all. For this reason, lam offering to send a free treat-
ment to every applicant, rich or poor, no matter where
they live, no matter what their disease. lam not a rich
man. I cannot afford to always give my medicine away,
but I am going to continue as long as possible or until
every afflicted person has had a chance to try and satisfy
themselves without expending one penny.” Do you
mean that you will send treatment absolutely free to every
one who applies? was asked. “That is exactly what I
mean. Any sick or afflicted person who will write to me
and describe their condition may have a trial of this treat- j
ment entirely free. There are no conditions, no restric-
tion. Distance is no barrier. I cure as readily thousands
of miles away as in my office. A letter does just as well
as a personal visit.”
The above statement appeared in all the leading
American papers and from there to the English press. As
a result Dr. Kidd’s mail has been flooded with applications
for free treatment. All have been answered promptly
but still they continue to come. For the benefit of liis
thousands of patients in the British Empire the doctor has
been compelled to establish an office in London. To
secure a free treatment, it is only necessarv to address Dr
James W. Kidd, 486 Saracen Buildings, Snow Hill, London,
E.C., being sure to describe your case. Remember that
the doctor treats all diseases from the simplest and
e 2?? e f. fc oure ~ to the so-called incurable and chronic
afflictions. There is no disease that he may not cure.
In view of Dr. Kidd’s marvellous success, his standing
among America’s most famous physicians, his reputation
for honesty and integrity, this offer affords a remarkable
opportunity to all who are sick and in need of medical
help; It means a chance to get well. It means the
opinion and advice of one of the world’s most famous and
successful physicians on your case absolutely free.
MURRELLS & BECKER
ai ' 6 t ! l ° l ar " es . t makers of TRAVELLING
GOODS in the Commonwealth
360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
near Stock Exchange;
212 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
Write for Catalogue B.
Price given to carry any article to your address.
%
*MORRIS$
IMPERIAL
»
OlHfMEMT
3 CURES 1
hd
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-5 S Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Of course you have System
in your office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
UAAA •
NERVOUSNESS. 1
iiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debdit}', Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case maybe. Thousands Cured Annuallv. Remedv
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-da.v.
Address .• HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
your Complete XVriting Outfit l
Paper-'SWAN’ Fountain Pen-Ink
COMPARE THIS WITH—
Desk (you can use chair arm or knee with a * SWAN ’), Box of
Steel Pens, several Holders, Ink Pots and Ink, Pen Racks, etc.
RECKON COSTS—
‘SWAN’ Outfit - say 15/-, total for several years.
Steel Nib Outfit - „ 8/6 annually.
One Filling serves for days—One ‘Swan’ for years.
Reduced Facsimile.
5i ins. long.
hd
SIZE I. SWAN PEN WITH GUARANTEED GOLD NIB.
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
MABIE, TODD & BARD, 93, Cheapside, London.
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
W. DUNKLING,
THE JEWELLER.
Watchmaker & Silversmith,
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT FOR
WALTHAM WATCHES.
best and most complete Catalogue
published in Australia of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods posted free on application.
II
#
\
%
/
%
I
No. 446.
GENT’S STERLING SILVER HUNTING
KEYLESS WALTHAM WATCH,
Compensation Balance, Fully Jewelled, Extra Heavy
Case. Specially made for the Australian climate.
Guaranteed in writing for 3 years. Post Free to any
part of Australia-
-45-
i'iiii Ballot mjttL
fhdfdh
fdh
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fisa, 13
Th* Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Fra a, Ib.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Booilcs and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE
DEAFJ
mkif
By using' the Wilson Com-
moil Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
tressing head noises write
or full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co
•229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d
fh
1
&
$
K' <v c
&
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” rr “ out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
"Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
-s
</>*
A
&
fhd
?k e Xarjcef describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
V/je British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
m
f
m
■ V,
FOOD
For INFANTS
INVALIDS
and the AGED
Bender's i'ood is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
Mick Doolan, cocky, at the local saleyards,
complaining about a man he had taken into his
employ
I ingaged him, ye see, at tin shillings a week, no less,
an’ his keep; an’ my hand to you, sir, the Sathurday
night niver comes but he’s to the fore for his half-
sovereign. Divil a hair he cares whether I have it or not
roast have it, an’ go off into town gallivantin’ an’
divartin’. Now, the man whose place he tuk--ah, that
was a decent bhoy ! He was up early an’ down late, an’
no throuble wid him. He pester ye fur money, is id?
Faith, he niver bothered his head about wages at all.
But I’d say now and thin, “ Tom, don’t ye want some
money to buy some little things for yerself now ?” “ Oh,
I dunno,” he’d say, laughin’, “I have things enough, I
think.” Well an’ good thin, I'd give him, perhaps, five
shillings, an’ the simple crathur ’ud off wid himself into
town an' buy two or three things —a handkerchief, a pair
of stockins, or a couple ov collars, an’ he’d spend the
rest in cakes an’ lollies an’ fruit for the childher. A
dacent poor bhoy was Tom, a:T sorry I was whin he died
in the hospital beyant there.


From Victorian Bankruptcy reports, 7/3/’O5
'< yi,;.. Goon, of Point Nepean-road, Elsternwick, market
'-ardOuer Causes of insolvency : Bad seasons and failure
of oro'is. ‘ Liabilities, £B4 14s. Id. ; assets, Is. ; deficiency,
i\S4 l '.s. Id." But how rarely it is that the Chinaman
bankrupts !
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wound, that Discharge or otherwise perhaps .ur-
ro'nuied with inflammation and iwollen that when you
j,re“, your finger on the inflamed part it leave, the linpree-
e : oi, ?If .o under the skin you have poieon tlmt defiee at.
the remedie. you have tried, which, if not extracted, yon
never can recover, but go on Buffering till death releasei
you Perhaps your knee, are swollen, the Joint* being
Ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the akin
riav he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you or the power to
„It You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your caße is. hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CArs
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WH.E. Because
Olliers have failed is nu reaion for not how being cured
krudatonce for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and P 11.1.5,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad I.egt,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carhuncleo, Poisoned
Hands Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bullions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
.J.C Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per b >x. Prepared bv
-AI BI'.HT, 73, Earl ingdon-street, l.ondon, England.
Agents M.t.IOTT BROS., Sydney. Piirclineers should
10. k tm tli - registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on *
given lai el on each box. (Regd copyright-
WHEN IS DUTY
A PLEASUREP
When one needs an
Aperient and takes
LAXATINE.
All die in ists and Storekeepers.
Manufactured by tlie Laxatins
Co. Ltd., Budapest, Hungary
If
A LAXATIVE
AS A LOZENGE.
11-
lABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
T:i3 Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6, Posted 2/9. Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AIT KEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established ‘25 Years.
Be OHM’S
Fight lor Teem
VY/lIAT excitement, what pride, when
™ the first tooth conies through !
But alas, what pain and restlessness,
anxiety and broken nights for mother
and child before this proud result can
be achieved ! Yet it is a fact that all
that dreadful suffering can easily be
avoided by giving the little one
SCOTT’S . .
EMULSION
of cod liver oil with glycerine and the
hypophosphites of lime and soda, the
perfect remedy for all teething troubles,
and the only form of cod liver oil which
is both perfectly palatable and perfectly
digestible by the most delicate infant.
Read this thankful letter from Mrs.
W. O. Young, of Pittown, Wallsend,
N.S.W., dated October 15th last: —
170
fA
“My child
suffered so se-
verely while
teething that
in spite of all I
did for him he
. continued to
• waste away
until he was al-
most a skele-
ton ; he used to
lie in my arms
allthetimeand
I would not eat
anything I of-
fered him.
Mj> friends
told me I would
never rear
him. Scott’s
Emulsion so
strengthened
him, that he
was able to
take proper
nourishment,
andsoon began
to run about,
and would not
rest in myarms
•at all. He lias gained considerably in weight,
and looks as if he had never had a day's illness
in his life.” hb
SCOTT'S EMULSION will
help your own little one in
just the same way.
Get SCOTT'S EMULSION and
Save the Baby!
Trade Mark
Write to-day for a free
sample bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to
Scott & Bowne, Ltd., 483,
Kent Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Note the trade mark,
“the fisherman.”
m
■\l r
OF
I
s
NOIT
■THIN l/HC tUAU-Tf
HABITUAL
CONSTIPATION
Ml INI MANY tuft OEAIMOINT
•uni. COLOI AMO MIAOACHI9 AMO ME-
VIII fIVMi: TO ACT UHIUT ft*
MMmr on rni
KUNEYS. LIVER AND BOWELS.
II 081 AT IKI'AIN AND COIONIUTM
01 MOW HILL LONOON. C. C.
PRICE 19. Od
Constipation is only aggravated
by violent purgatives: Nature
simply requires a little gentle
and strengthening assistance.
t # r •
California
yrup of Figs
NATURE'S PLEABANT LAXATIVE.
Surpasses all other purifying
medicines, because it is tonic
and strengthening as well as
the most perfect Laxative—
(it is not a purgative).
Ask for CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS and look for the Name
and Trade Mark of the CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London. Of all Chemists, 1/3 and i/n.
HANDSOME OSTRICH PLUMES
For the Autumn and Winter Season
Black Feathers will be very fashionable.
Millinery Experts forecast a great demand
for feathers. Vide Fashion Journals.
MILLER’S FEATHERS.
THE BEST THAT MONEY CAN BUY
Direct From the Farm to You.
These handsome and popular Plumes
can be seen everywhere. For stylish and
attractive Millinery they are unequalled.
Graceful and becoming for young or old.
CV.
BLACK, WHITE or CREAM PLUMES (as illustrated) 3 for 10/“ Post Free -
Also in NATURAL GREY, or BLACK Tipped with White, Length, 10 Inches.
BLACK TIPS, 9 inches long, 2/- each. STEEL ARROW ORNAMENTS, 1/-
CHOICE BOAS, 21/-, 30/-, 42/-, 63/-, 84/-. WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
NOTE THIS.—By purchasing from Us you not only save all the Middlemen's
profits, but you have the finest assortment of Ostrich Feathers in Australia to
choose from. Send Postal Notes. Illustrated Price List Post Free.
Feathers or Boas Cleaned and Curled. Superior Work at Moderate Prices.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Cor. Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNEY
Also at Corner Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. Mention The Bulletin.
ĥf fh
The basis of which is “Montserrat ■'* Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior 4o Worcester
and otJier Sauces*
4G£iV7S-Elliott Bros. Ltd, J. Con'-ell & Co., D. Mitchell & Co., Sydney.
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
CARTRIDGES
ARE well known in Australasia. Their steady
advancement in popular favor is due to
their sure fire, uniform and accurate qual-
ties. U.M.C. stamped on a cartridge head is a
guarantee of uniformity. All dealers carry
U.M.C. cartridges because they sell well and
satisfy their customers.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“S.A. ”: Adelaide is finding out how other States
suffer from crying- abuses that S.A. is free from. A few
months ago, it was an eye-opener to learn that Melbourne
did not have its Art Gallery, &c., open on Sunday, a
thing “sleepy” Adelaide has. lie that infamous Vic-
torian case (9/2/’O5), allowing a costs-hunting solicitor
fees up to two guineas on an undefended 15s. claim, S.A.
law allows no costs to anybody on any claim under £5,
even if fought out in court, and only 10s. up to £2O where
a formal defence is not entered.
• * • •
Th'j wise plumber never goes out to collect his
accounts on a wet day.
* * * •
As a result of the Sydney watered-milk prose-
cutions, it is now said in a dozen places that the cow
is often to blame —that hundreds of cows won’t give milk
up to the standard required by law. But, after all, that
doesn’t make the position any better for the public. If,
for the sake of greater gain, the dairyman breeds the sort
of cow that gives 20 gallons of poor milk instead of 15
gallons of standard milk, he is just about the same sort cf
swindler as the man who buys or breeds good cows, and
then waters the milk. A grocer who deliberately buys
allegedly lib. weights that are 2oz. short isn’t any less a
rogue than the man who buys honest lib. weights and
then scoops 2oz. out of every pound of goods he weighs
out.
• • •
N.S.W. poultry farmers are moving towards
forming a co-operative society for the sale of poultry
and eggs, establishment of stores, depots, etc., possible
establishment of a canning works later, and the store
and sale, to members, of all kinds of goods required in
the industry. Advantages of the scheme are so obvious
that it’s a wonder it wasn’t mooted before.
• • • •
One way. You put your little business into the
agent’s hands to sell, Signing an agreement to pay him
5 per cent, on the selling price, and the same if the busi-
ness is taken out of his hands before three months. After
the lapse of six or seven weeks, if the business is still
unsold, the agent’s clerk calls on the proprietor and ex-
plains that they have advertised it without success, and
it would be better to write to the boss withdrawing it
from sale until times improve. The unsuspecting “ mug ”
does so, and at the end of the three months receives a
bill for commission, “the business having been with-
drawn before stipulated time mentioned in the agree-
ment.” Those who have contested the same point in
court have been beaten, and the printed reports of the
cases are held up before any victim who refuses to
compound.
* * * *
One Sydney money-lender never uses a pro-
missory note The borrower signs a cheque in favor of
the usurer, whether he has a shilling in the bank or not.
Probably, in case of arrears, the lender reckons that he
can talk hard about the penalty of giving a “ valueless
cheque.” If the cheques are post-dated (as is likely) it is
an offence against the Stamps Act
* 9 * *
“D.”: Selling a business is a fine art. I
know: I disposed of one through an agent the other
day. The agent brought along a prospective buyer, and
from the moment he came into the shop customers,
mostly youngsters, rolled in by the dozen, and while he
stood by 1> sold about £3 worth of goods in small parcels.
When he went away to think it over, the agent’s two
clerks carted back all the stuff I had sold, and asked me
to kindly return the money. They had followed their
boss, and made “biz ” hum by sending in every youngster
in the neighborhood to make a purchase while they kept
out of sight.
* * * »
Re mushroom exporting. During two days
(5-6/4/05) 250 cases of mushrooms were sent to Mel-
bourne from Korumburra, S. Gippsland (Vic.). But it’s
a spasmodic business—as spasmodic as S. Gippsland’s
weather.
* * * «
“San Remo” : In spite of Cohen’s laudation of
the Jap, he maintains a cold, brutal attitude towards his
war loans. Japan is knocking-, or supposed to be knock-
ing, the Bear off the globe, yet when she asks her admirers
for a few millions, she gets it only upon humiliating con-
ditions. Only a few S. American republics (whose happy
knack of repudiation is well known) have to give specific
guarantees, such as Customs receipts, for loans. How
would even loan-drunk Australia feel if Cohen demanded
our Customs or railway receipts as a guarantee for any
specific loan? And look at the ridiculously high interest
and low price of Jap stock !
* • * •
It is estimated that, at the present rate of con-
sumption, the standing kauri timber in Maoriland will be
cut out in eight years. As the giant survivors were hale and
lusty when Abraham went to school, re-planting is con-
sidered impracticable,- as it would be necessary to wait
4000 years for the timber to grow. Wherefore the Govern-
ment proposes to limit the export of kauri —a serious
matter for the Kauri Timber Co., which is mostly owned
in Melbourne. Maoriland bush is also being depleted of
kahikatea (white pine) for butter boxes and cheese crates,
and restriction as to export will probably be enforced in
its case also.
* * * *
Geelong (Vic.) also has its salt works. A large
area of Stingaree Bay, a shallow inlet off Corio Bay,
having a clayey bottom, is shut in by a puddled wail,
faced with hardwood. Early in summer sluice gates are
opened during high tide, and then the impounded water
is left to sun and wind. When it is as dense as brine it
is pumped into small “ paddocks,” from which it is col-
lected, after the last of the liquor (containing, among
other things, magnesia and Epsom salts) has been thrown
back to the sea. For fine salt this solar salt is ground
between granite rollers.
» • • •
“0.8. N.S.W. Mining Department’s new
rule (dating from July, 1904), which obliges the prospector
who is aided by the Department to pay back the aid if
successful, is going aga nst an old principle. How does
th 3 prospector, making his half-ounce a week, differ from
the discoverer of a field, who is thereby entitled to a gold-
fields reward ? The principle recognised by Australia is
that gold won is won for the State, and the winner in the
first instance gets something extra. To take from the
prospector a little of his very little is fine working.
WORK AND WORSHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yes, 1 love Right. Within my heart is placed
A temple where she’s worshipped. Often whc n
The timid stars, made bold with darkness, faced
The Earth, the cradle huge of sleeping men,
Have I, in spirit, entered my own heart
And prayed before the seat on which she sits—
-11 O M.stress, aid me hoth in shop and mart
To do the duty which thy name befits ! ”
I’ve often done this, but whene’er the Dawn
Came up and called the squalling crowds again,
And I beheld them, men of bra n and brawn,
All, ev’ry Jack of them, by might and main,
Resolved to wheedle, lie, deceive and best,
“ Be hanged,” I’d say, “ I’ll give them quid for quo.'”
And forthwith, with as keen and fierce a zest
As any, in among them I would go.
I’d give them in their sugar sand for sand,
Short measure in some things, short weight in all,
And they who gave to me a traitor’s hand
Would get a hand to lead them to their fall.
And then at night I’d enter my own heart,
And pray again before her where she sits—
“ O Mistress, aid me both in shop and mart
To do the duty which thy name befits ! ”
I know not how I could continue on
Thus snaring, tricking, scheming, day by day,
Thus setting out to cozen, ev’ry dawn,
Thus making falsehood an artistic play,
Were I debarred from entering my heart,
And paying prayerful homage in the night
To her, the goddess of both shop and mart,
Divine, eternal, and impartial Right 1
N.S.W.
O.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANGHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
WILCANNIA
♦GEELONG
♦COMMONWEALTH
Tons
4955
7954
6611
Commander.
Sails.
W. G. Ling-ham ..(May 5
J. E. Ilbery .. June 9
H. G. Thomas, R. N. R. j July 7
♦Twin-Screw Steamer.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. nrn
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine,
lor Freight, Passage Money, &c., apple to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
stijN, Ell)., Creek-street.
Banking.
-th In-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endovynierns and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • • 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,814,795.
Policies issued 94,657-assuring £28,394,068.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -enuitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
j||ank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Qovernment of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
T All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas*
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
Royalßankof Queensland
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. / * £457 530
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS*.* I7s’si2
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64,00 C
’ £697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.. W. B Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 A3CHURCH LANE
1G Branches in Queensland. Agents and Corespondents
Throughout the. World.
Bank
of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903
Amouu t of Capital payable by Shareholders
1,000,000
Total Capital
500.000
500,000
£2,000,000
P® Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Es.i
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Oo. Ltd'S
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £7OO 000
Capital Paid-up £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250 300 ... £350.000
OCEAIN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.) Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns!
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jussor, Esc.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynb ; Adelaide. W. N.
M I< arlane ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W."
J'ARQDHAR. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY
EXECUTORS
The trustees.
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
„ ATlTrniT 412 ®ollins-st. f Melbourne. *
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ton nnn a a
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
o eC l° rS ‘ Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq. C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq •
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene M P
JAMES BOItItOVVMAN, Manager.
PBEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manage!
jßaals of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,870 000 0 0
Reserve Liability 0 0
Totai .. .. .. 6,370,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C., President
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie. Esu.
H. Montague Faitiifull, Esq.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches m all the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India China
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States'
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies. ’
Tae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conduots all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J, RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
KT. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Ma.il Service
Gibwlt S a^ N I G o^ S B . OOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
uipraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Steamer
Tons
Commander.
8000 C. Dewers
50C6R. Troitzsch ..
5005, von L.Peterssen
02S8 11. Kirchner ..
50L2|G. Bolte
8000 C. Dewers
Sydney
1.30
p.m.
Apr. 29
May 27
June 24
July 22
Aug. 19
Sep. 19
Ade-
laide
2 p.m.
May 6
June 3
July 1
July 29
Aug. 26
Sep. 23
‘SEYDLITZ
OLDENBURG
GERA
P. R. LUITPOLD
DARMSTADT
•SEYDLITZ
* Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
mO CHINA and JAPAN
BRIT A 1A? NE H Y FoUI ' ' Veeks > via BRISBANE, NEW
lAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
4761 tons .. 13th MAY
*Pr!n- Sim2® tons ' 10fch JUNE.
PRINt SICISMUNO, 3300 tons.. Bth JULY.
‘Twin Screw Steamers.
Safer v , 2nrt B Tn Sea ' oi, '7 Qualities - Maximum Speed,
Cuisine Cl VO tv 6 ’ B p Bt Accommodation, Excellent
to ihe Agents. • ,Urther Particulars apply
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
hdfhdfhfd
We Send on Approval
and ~uar; ntee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
Models j&SSa'S'ofo
J?rP« lo \vT Vr ? S ’^ eStWoOd Bteel EirnS .
Dree Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes. '
CARRIAGE PAID to any
port In A ustralosia.
Motor Cars and BHotocycles
lyres, Accessories, Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
'Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficn ntfoieign postage.
MEAD GYGIE GO* Dept. 339 B
UUCAUO, C.B.A. and htVKltl'OOL, EXGLASD. .»
TH€ AB€RPC€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
GALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SOPHOCLES
NINEVEH
MARATHON
H. A. Schleman
A. Robb
N. Alton ..
Noon, May 6
Noon, May 27
Noon, June 17
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London ... .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
IIIIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
1 amphlets, Time-Tables, Sic., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
fd f
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
19th MAY,
AFRIC, SITE VIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to fo.iow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 H 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalijehj and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
S.S. Co. A; and A,.
o CBAKTIO
o^^ n J WIN - SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY,
LIKTE.
R.M.S. lONS, SAILS MONDAY MAY 8
PAST PASSENGER ?4 LA J^ SOUTH SEAS - SAN FRANCISCO, & c„ k
FAST PASSENGER L.;RVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
CORNER I'ITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
dfd
TROPICAL TRIPS
THERE are, of course, several ways of spending
a Winter vacation ; but a cruise through the
Solomon Islands surpasses them all. Do you
know that you can make this voyage at a cost of
less than Ten Shillings per day ? a steamship of
1763 tons makes the voyage. Will you drop us a
postal for " HOLIDAY HINTS,” a new illus-
trated pamphlet ?
BURNS, PHSLP & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public*Comnanles, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
a*
BIZiLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAP,TAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
nxr.s.-w.
(flout it pete ||.#|.Ca..EM.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGrH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager. '
REYNOLDS’S
" NEWSPAPER
FOR ARTICLES ON
Labor and Wages and Labor Disputes.
MOTTO: Government of the People, by
the People, -for the People.
PRICE—ONEPENNY WEEKLY.
JOHN DICKS, Effing-ham House, Arundel-street
London, Eng.
EQISON
501 D HOUIOED
RECORDS
a
[EDISON
coin nouioeo
RECORDS
For EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
WRITE TO .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T. & G. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hall.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Free.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.; Posted, -
CAN AO (AN-AUSTR ALI AN LIME
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL-
MAY 15, JUNE 12, JULY 10, AUC. 7.
THE BEST ROUTE TO EUROPE,
Affords an Opportunity of
Visiting the Attractive
Spots of the New World
Without Additional Cost.
GRAND EXCURSION TO CANADA,
The Finest Sea-Trip in the World.
The Grandest Scenery in America. The
Finest and Cheapest Excursion from
Australia.
fW" WRITE FOR PARTICULARS. -*3
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydnej’.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A. r) . ifferenfc Articles, comprising
i Yankee ?l jb vc r Baby ( can be carried in vest pocket
a ?'J, J Own - out J° \ l£e Slze —causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tncks). The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
lush (gives the definition of your character—
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), the Pocket Companion or Oombina-
tion Comet Candle and Matchbox. The Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structmns enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney,
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY*
The Most Liberal, and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
v Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
S° u th Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Buninyong, Saturday
Next, April 22, at 1 p.m.
(Transhipping at Mel-
bourne.)
S.S. Ivanowna, Wednesday,
April 26, at 1 p.m. (With-
out Transhipment.)
BRISBANE, 1
MAGK'AY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns I
S.S. Marioo, Saturday Next,
April 22, at 1 p.m.
S.S. Buninyong-, April 29
at 2 p.m.
Tiest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
first Pwt of^»n e are interchangeable after the
services snhip^t l^^ 11 ° ; ! er lntel- -State Companies on all
on avmlicfltinn"«t'H Co £ dltions ’ " hicll can k e ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and P\tt3
Eremo!”p r 8 0f 6500 k> " s ’ under Postal Contract wiuhtha
T AliVi 1 * wnxrtiV'’., calli,l >? at MELBOUBNE. ADB-
I'ORT "41 i lj '-’ COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
lOltr SAID, will he dispatched MONTHLY as follows : -
Steamer
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIEN
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT
YARRA
uooaea 10 Bombay, India. Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
m landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
eta, and also accompany them to Paris and Calais
Bor further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
MMM _ M j^BRASIER^E_THu'Y i Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . by tiib . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
T, o X;: von, A JuurruAij VOYAGE.
r T contaln injr two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are largef cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through booldngs at special rates to Europe v<% Canada
and the U.S. America, or the Trans-Siberian Railway.
For handbooks and all information apply to the
ahd AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-st., Sydney
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.w. CUPIT, Manager.
' X S fV™ ! Where did you stay when you went over
to Melbourne last ?”
“ Oh ! at the
“FALSTAFF” Restaurant
SPENCER STREET,
Opposite Railway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, handy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it, and could be called any time by Night Porter.
Smoking-Room ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resi-
dence, 16s. and £l. Single Bedrooms, Is. 6cL Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, 6d. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Number of Single Bedrooms are available
at Is. per night, or ss. weekly, with every
convenience. Tel. 1281.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
ilodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comroru and convenience at;—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
81'. KILDA.
’CHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Creswick Hotel
Bligh & Bent
Sts., Sydney.
Excellent Bachelors' Quarters. A Real English
Homo TERMS MODERATE.
PROPRIETRESS^-**
MRS. M. J. CHANCELLOR.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS
SUITABLE
SUGGESTIONS IN
TABLE SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Dalton China
BISCUIT BARREL, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s Gd, 17s 6d,
22s Gd, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Cut Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD AND WAITER Combined, Pure Silver-
Plated on Nickel Silver, with KNIFE to Match,
£2 10s. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, £2 ss, £3.
PRICE
A. SAUNDERS.
LIST FOR SPOONS AND FORKS.
A QJALITY.'
Table Spoons, 20s Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 20s Half-Doz.
Table Spoons, 15s Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 15s Half-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 10s Half-Doz.
B QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 12s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 12s 6d Haii-Doz.
Table Spoons, 10s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 6s 6d Half-Doz.
C QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 10s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Spoons, 7s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 7s 6d Half-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 5s Half-Doz.
IN THREE DESIGNS-FIDDLE, OLD ENGLISH, AND KING.
Our Spoons and Forks are well made and beautifully finished
They are absolutely the best made in England, and will wear a lifetime.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Rainbow Glass, 20s.
Other Styles,'Bs 6d, 10s 6d.
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Corinthian Column
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-Plated,
bin. high,lss 6d each.
Other Styles,
8s 6d, lCs, 12s 6d,
17s 6d, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
lIONEY JAR, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
Our Catalogue
Contains over 1500
Illustrations o£
Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silver-Plate,
Purses, and Optical Goods,
Write for it now.
We send it to any Address
In Australia
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DOUBLE INKSTAND, Cut, Glass
Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated, £2 5s Other Styles,
17s 6d, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Splendid Timekeper, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 255.
Our Prices
Consistent with the
Best Quality, /
are Low. Why?
As Direct Importers
and large Cash Buyers,
We sell direct to
Our Customers,
Thus saving them all
Middlemen’s Profits.
Are the Lowest
A. SAUND2RS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated
llin. Oval, Special Value, £2 ss.
£3 ss, £3 10s.
on Nickel Silver,
Other Styles, £3
WINGFIELD RoWBOTHAM«Ct
A. SAUNDERS.
SET OF CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel,
Hand Finished, Securely Riveted Handles,
27s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d., 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, ?ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver Plated,
Handsomely Engraved, 25a.
Other Styles, 16s 6d, 20s.
SOs. 355.
-BOf ‘see ‘SOS ‘-isAng pips
•p 9 S 2X ‘saipußg possoqraa A'oußj ‘SDMOI a MV
SNOOdS V3I M00K3313Y omj
•saacwnys - v
:■ : !HI
aiiHll BBHBB
A. SAUNDERS.
i-vrr) rjOFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Fern Design, Gilt Dined, comprising Four
D 5 ™; s fv for us by James Dixon and Sons, £5. Other Styles, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO 10s, to
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
Cake Basket, Sugar and Cream Combined, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOT WATER OR MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 355.
Other Styles. 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME, Pure Silver-Plated,
Beautifully Fluted, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 25e, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR BOTTLE LUNCH OR DINNER
CRUET, Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 21$, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE OR FRUIT BASKET, Pure Silver-Phi ted on
Nickel Silver, £2 ss. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
4in. high, in Four Styles,
15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
m
vmimwnTOii
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTERDISH, Pnre Silver-Plated
on Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, 12s 6d
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,
17s 6d, 20s.
IrtWjlj
Sydney
mium
llOii
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-Mounted OUT GLASS
SALTS AND SPOONS,
in Silk-Lined Case, 12s 6d.
Heart Shaped, 13a 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK Pure Silver-Plated,
Leaf Design, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG AND TOAST RACK
COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Glass FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure Silver-Plated Base, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2, £2 ss, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
KNIFE RESTS, Cut Glass,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Larger, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME AND
SPOONS,
Pure Silver-Plated, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER AND TOAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass Lining, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved, £2.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY S LEASING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET.
Opposite
RAILWAY
STATION.


(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE CUP, Morphettville, S.A., May 10
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 5
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas„ June 5
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic„'July 1
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
important notice
ss. nokot^TZ: 'STLT/Sr Tax wm be
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTFFS fTT « ■'em.ttanees.
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as ffr sS ve 1 V! * GE ° KGE ADAMS t 0 “"7 °n the
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money be remitted through in Aust,laZ t °™“ Vded thr °" gh “7 PARCELS
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
iSSSSSm
fd
11
-i-vum
fdƒdh
fd
ď
THE WAY I DO MY BUYING^
\Vhen the days’ work l've
tune to remember that the boys or
myself want some New Clothing j
just sit down comfortably and write to
LINCOLN,,/'
STUART * Col
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE If
for their book “The Philosophy of Dress” and*
some patterns of cloths, of which they send'
variety by return of post, I then-
read the book and see what will suit me
Having made my selection, and come to a
decision I send them the order “n. their
special Measure Form, when finished, the goods
l f fi !f n k l °. ? le anc * Carriage is prepaid
I find by tins plan that I buy just as'wellaa
«d s w uHed n in to ;:'v: d y. am
To oblige the Firm / always tM ( .
which paper / saw their advertisement in.
/
N^r
Write to-day
for
Patterns
and the Book»
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
FA-MOUa R.EMEDY FOE.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
Those who have taken THE LARGEST SALE OY ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Soreness in the Chest, experience deli ghtfu? and Su ? eVe ™. hn ? * or ™ of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness,
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and givingTength to vmce andTt n either ZT C °" *• Cl,eßt l itis valuable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is m,„„
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been oronerlv H-Aot-ori ’• fu • e th f . °” T a Cou gh or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption lm
and a Complete Cure is certain. Pr ° PGrly tlGilted Wlth thlf? medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
I—SEj Aa7* A I—g m g* 'jTpr B 00X10 ttcis* y
remember that evert disease has its commencement, and consumption is no exception to this rule.
Pain or
most com-
BRONCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and Appreciation of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack of Bronchitis.
G ' H «" ne - P ear Sir,-I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting-on the advice of a friend
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing-me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve. I place this communica-
-1 0" , a, y°ur service, and remain, Dear Sir, Yours
faithfully, HENRY FRENCH,
Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney.
~~a^temaT~
A Five Years case.
At times very bad indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
frnnhiJi P l ear Sir ’~For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times very bad indeed. 1 was
Z r l V J J, u , st after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took
nbrhi t T do « e -°P t 0 bed > a,ld was not troubled that
„ f r f . fln,sb< l ; d th ? medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
P/ . . . ■_ , M. MURRAY,
rostmistress, Pampoolah, Manning- River, N.S.W.
hayasthml.
A Severe Attack Relieved in Ten Minutes
by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir,-About three weeks ago
f™. 1 ® m the vicmitr of musty chaff, I gradually felt
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last I could stand it no lono-er I
, tben . tr l ed y? ur , Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was
wonderful. In less than ten minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to sav.—Yours
fcrul y* S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A Sydney Resident Suffered for Over Sixty
Years.
So Bad He Dared Hot Stir.
Believed in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Would Give f5O for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend,-Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and
A<jth'm nOW ? 6 , years °' d - Some tine back I contracted
a d - for , n ' on , ths 1 wa s so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieved smothering was of no use to
me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few minutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If bv so doing it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Its Efficacy in chest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years
and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds
severe colds, eroupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
° ne - trusting lts P res ent popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
~ „ EDWARD JONES,
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
Doctor
BKONCHITIS.
An English Lady so ill that th®
held out no hope.
"Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir.—Not long: since I had occasion
i V 1S j i country, and before leaving Melburne pur-
chased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took
with me. When I arrived in Leeds I found that my niece,
Miss C. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne s Bronchitis Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. R. J. MATTHEWS,
o/o Allan & Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir,—l am thankful to say that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
or the benefit of others, make it known to
all I know. lam 7 3 years of age-—Yours truly,
JOHN BRAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA.
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward without
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. T lost a fine little girl three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby 8 months old, were suffering exactly in the same
lfc j Cted like magic on them ;in fact, a small
bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward
it without delay—l am, yours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. D. WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
The Doctor considered it a hopeless car:
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
»tf! r V- He ? rne ‘ D ? ar . , Sir >— l beg leave to draw vour
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case. In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for something to try. I thought it a hard
thing, after 72 years experience of the ups and downs of
this life, to die in such an inglorious manner : besides I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated nie
to make an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
t l sav Y.- v< ? ur . Bronchitis Cure advertised, and
thought I would give it a trial, so I sei.t to W. H. Harris
chemist. Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a sniati
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when I gave up ail
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to rece : v a "
the congratulations of mv friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 rears
and being gifted with the spirit of good fellowship; have
not the least objection to you making- any use of tk'o
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to myself. *
' JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Believed by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimon y
“ ™ e wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for nine months, and the cough was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights* I was obliged to get up and sit
by the fire. I had medical advice, and tried other
remedies, without avail. I tried yours, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though I
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, and
the cough has vanished. You may depend upon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to
anyone I see afflicted.—Yours faithfully,
JAMES ASTBURY,
Dergholm, Victoria.
HEARNE ® BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s, 6d.
»j ■ m m tijfcaa SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED RV POST I a tvtxt mT,T™c. a
branch depot—
FORWA > RDED BY POST T 0 ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5. First Floor. Greer’s Chambers. 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Good as ever!
SUNLIGHT SOAP
for the laundry.
HQffICEY BRAID
FOR RENOVATING PAINT.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
r
Janos
Foe LITER COMPLAINTS, OSESITT, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity*”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
hf
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Se!f=Poisoned.
(By “Sequence.”)
Some of the most powerful poisons known to science are made in the human body as the result
of the wear and tear of life. These poisons are produced by the mere act of living.
We have all heard of the poisoned spears, darts and arrows used by many tribes of savages, me
most common mode of poisoning these articles is to thrust them into a dead human body, and leave them
there until the flesh is completely decomposed. Some tribes consider that there is a special virtue in
the corpse of a chief, when used for this purpose, and that the greater the chief the more dangerous to
their enemies will be the weapons thus prepared. Whether the body is that of a chief or that ot a
slave matters not at all. In eitheu case a most malignant poison results from the decomposition,
and the slightest scratch from spear, dart or arrow treated in this manner, is fatal to a human
being or any other living animal. . , . . ,
Dangerous as are the poisons created by the decomposition of animal matter, the poisons made oy
each of us every moment we live are equally deadly, and their evil work is wrought within ourselves.
If all our organs are thoroughly healthy, the poisons, which are being continuously made, are expelled
and we suffer no hurt. It should therefore be our first care to see that the organs whose duty it is to
remove these poisons are kept in efficient working order. _
Upon the skin, lungs, kidneys and liver rests the mam responsibility of extracting poisonous
matter from the blood and removing it from the system. The moment one of these organs, through
weakness or disease, becomes incapable of performing its work efficiently, that moment we begin to
suffer from some illness, and, if steps are not taken to restore to health and activity the organ at rault,
death from some form of blood poisoning must ensue. . . . . , . ~
The lungs are vigorous organs, and speedily advise us of anything which is impeding their action,
whilst the skin will usually perform its duty if kept in a state of cleanliness. The kidneys and liver,
on the other hand, are generally not able to directly call our attention to any weakness or disease in
themselves, and it is only by studying symptoms produced by their irregularity that we become aware
of their incapacity to do their work. , T
The kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight, of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
he solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel Stone,
Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of the kidneys
is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand
until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or. if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy, and no time must be
lost in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or soma less serious but more
painful illness will result. ~
The Liver.—ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Iwo or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood,
converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood,
gradually, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into
urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived
their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indi-
gestion, Biliousness, Anaemia. Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed especially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver, was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. It was realised at the outset of the investigation that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally ujion the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately
associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many disappointments the medi-
cine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these vital organs are
enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of
which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica,
Blood’Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder
Troubles, and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing
the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent
Protect your Darling
Babe from Childhood’s infectious diseases
by washing him with
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap.
THE NURSERY SOAP.
The Bush-Mother.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE kowhai swings above me,
I Her crown of glittering gold,
And all along the valley
New Life and Love unfold ;
The world is fair and fragrant,
And hither, with the Spring,
Back to the old Bush-mother
One comes a-wandering.
The shy bush children gather
And peer from every bough ;
“ And who is it comes hither
Lost Brother, is it thou ?
Strange, strange art thou, 0 brother !
Hast been so long away
That neither word nor whisper
Has power to charm to-day .’
What turmoil lies behind me !
The city and the street,
The struggle and the discord,
The clang of hurrying feet.
O mother, tender mother,
Back to thy peace I come;
0 put thine arms around me,
Thy Prodigal is home !
Thou wast my nurse and teacher,
And I, thy foster-child,
Am kin to all thy children.
So free, and fresh, and wild :
Thy birds, they were my brothers,
Thy stream, my sister dear,
Who sang me many a ballad,
That only Bushfolk hear.
Thine elder sons and daughters
Told many tales to me ;
Thy Rata,, clad in crimson,
So wonderful to see !
Thy Kowhai, thy Konini,
Thy Totara, so tall—
Deep in thy wildernesses,
How I have loved them all!
Put thou thine arms around me,
I nestle to thy breast;
Thou hast for mourners, comfort,
And for the weary, rest.
0 mother, dear Bush-mother,
Thy spell is on me yet;
Thy spirit on my spirit,
Thy calm upon my fret.
0 we who dwell in cities
May wander far from thee ;
Yet still we hear thee calling,
Calling o’er land and sea ;
And when the world is radiant,
And fragrant with the Spring,
Back to the old Bush-mother
Her babes come wandering.
M.L.
DORA WILCOX.
Fact’ry 'Ands.
“ C.M.Gr.” : A navvy on the St. Arnaud
line, when that line was in course of building,
attracted my youthful attention by his devotion
to a large, drowsy, old-man cockatoo he owned.
On Saturday after pay, Andy, the navvy, used to
trot off to Mother B ’s shanty with his cockatoo
on his shoulder, and in the course of time I
learned the bird’s duties. When Andy was fairly
full, the feathered adviser would croak: “Go
home, Andy ; go home, you drunken swine ! ” If
Andy stayed for another, cookie cursed him from
Geelong to breakfast as a filthy, beer-swilling son
of a bad mother, and then Andy went home to
his tent. I never knew the bird to misjudge
Andy’s condition.
In India, the land of palaces which are
tombs, and tombs which are palaces, a marble
building, 220 ft. in -height, will be erected at Cal-
c-ntta as a memorial to the late Queen Victoria,
This building, whose plan somewhat resembles
the Sydney markets of that name, will only pro-
volte derision when compared with the laj Mahal
and the other great memorials of that country.
From a subscriber in China
y our policy of a White Australia never appealed to me
greatly until I came to China. After two or three years
in China, even Mr. G. H. Reid wol ’ l< ' bL “ c . on " ° f
absolute necessity, ite the b ve®vEurope!n who
to see them and their country ruined
ag much as possible by the war.
SPATS’ CATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ■ some reason cats don’t prosper
1 1 ’ere,” said the packer, leisurely cutting
his string, and locating his “chew” in
one cheek as a preliminary to discourse. “Ther
climit ’r somethin’ don’t agree with ’em, ’n’ they
alwez come to a huntimely end.”
“Manslaughter?” queried the town-traveller,
who had noticed Mills’ fatal facility with a pound-
weight.
“No,” said Feathers. “I don’t kill cats, on
principle ; it’s bad for luck. When I first come
up ther flat I passed-out a large blonde she-cat
’n’ her family by pinnin’ ’em to ther floor with a
4cwt. tank iv tinfoil; ’n’ I lived to regret it. Point
o’ fact, we all lived t’ regret it. Ther cat was
nursin’ her brood, clandestine, aft ther smoker
there, ’n’ I ran ther tank in, ’n’ dumped her in ther
dark, havin’ no previous knowledge iv Tutsie ’n’
her chicks. When I bumped ther stock down on
her she never breathed a word. Her pride
wouldn’t allow her. She left us t’ find out the
herror fer ourselves, which we did in the course iv
time. That knowledge groaned all over the
factory, the hum iv it was so fearful. Take it
from the man off ther works, Goudy, killin’ cats is
rotten luck.”
“ How do they die generally ? ” asked the town-
traveller.
‘ ‘ Sooercide, ” answered Feathers. ‘ ‘ I was gom’
t’ tell you. They all do it. That ’n’ will in about
a month.” He indicated the new cat, curled up in
the cherished best hat of the elder Miss Kruse.
“They get hydrophobia,’r somethin’, ’n’ run
stark starin’ demented over everythin’, like a
fresh soul in the fire-box; ’n’ end by pitchin’ them-
selves head-over-crumpet down ther lift-well. The
first one I recomember kicked the fact’ry end-up,
’n’ fair rattled the town. He was a big, lanky,
grey brute, like a daylight spectre; jest the
color iv everythin’ ; so you had to look three
times t’ see ’im, ’n’ then sometimes you
wasn’t sure that he wasn’t a sleight-iv-hand trick
’r a bloomin’ hillusion. He ’ad big, sad eyes, ’n’
when ’e fixed ’em on you thoughtful you had a
feelin’ ’e was strippin’ you clean, ’n’ turnin’ up all
yer miserable secrets. ’Ceptin’ fer a hunexpected
wail he jerked out iv ’is works now ’n’
again, that cat was just a livin’ silence ; but
that one yowl was a blood-curdler ; chock full
iv human sorrer mixed with hints iv Hell; bad
enough by day, but at night, when he slipped it
on you down in ther cellar, yer backbone rattled
loose, ’n’ yer ’air took t’ crawling round your head
like cold worms.
“He come to us full-grown, ’n’ made friends
with nobody. Killin’ rats was his bizness, ’n’ he
give his whole attention to it. You know what a
place this is fer rats ; they’re ez thick ez fleas, ’n’
up in ther loft the kings iv them grow ez big ez
sheep. Bunyip was the on’y cat we ever had
game t’ foiler ’em into ther loft, ’n’ try a fall with
the champions up there in ther dark. ’Twas
quick bizness down below here, ’n’ no beg-pardons
with Bunyip. He downed on his victim like a
flash, there was a ‘sort o’ sputter iv fireworks, ’n’
Bunyip came out o’the scrim, carryin’ his lunch
be ther scruff; but hot ’n’ willin’ was the mills he
had up under ther roof. There’s a hacre ’r so iv
wilderness up there, smit with a plague iv dark-
ness, ’n’ old grey rats with whiskers on ’em ’n’ tusks
like walruses. Stick your nose up there, ’n’ ten
t’ one a rat what might be mistook fer the father iv
all the wallabies ’ll have a cut at you fer yer ear.
“ Bunyip’s great fight come off one hot mornin’.
It seemed ez if there was a conspiracy among the
patriarchs t’ deal with him. We ’eard his usual
jump, ’n’ the squeal iv er rat in holts, ’n’ then there
was a sound like ther rush iv a reglar army, ’n’
then a tearin’ round ’n’ bumpin’ ’n’ botheration,
same ez if a hundred dingoes was dinin’ off a
’orse. Bunvip let loose his terrible cry on’y once;
it was his busy day. Operations was suspended
on ther flat, ’n’ we listened t’ the fight shiftin’
round above ther ceilin'. There was a ’orrible
muffled fierceness about it; ’twas sort iv uncanny,
same ez if two sets iv devils was settlin ’a difference
in ther darkness. At times it was deadened by
ther thick dust, ’n’ then it ud beat down t’
ther boards, ’n’ bump furious; ’n’ then off it ud
scurry t’ the other end o’ ther flat with a noiseless
noise, in a way o’ speakin’. S’elp me, I thought
I cud hear them rats breathin’. Some o’ ther girls
got scared, ’n’ moaned a bit, ’n’ began t’ huddle like
sheep ; ’n’ the dust fair boiled out o’ the loft.
Sudden ’n’ wild all the rats seemed to yellet once;
there was a terrible scramble, ’n’ a rattle iv loose
slates where ther roof jined ther ceilin’, ’n’ then
somethin’ shot clean through ther man-hole there;
somethin’ fearful t’ see, revolvin’ with rage ’n’
full iv murder; somethin’ ez big ez a bar’l. It
bumped on the fact’ry floor, ’n’ bust into the two
’underd ole-men rats that ud bin glued on t’
Bunyip in mortil combat. Ther rats scattered ’n’
broke fer cover, ’n’ ther girls put up the biggest
thing in ther way iv a nine-stone-four shriekin’
competition I ever heard, ’n’ rushed into a heap
up by ther cutters.
“ Bunyip didn’t stop revolvin’. He was turnin’
mad han’-springs over hisself on ther floor ; his
wool was stickin’ out like a wire-brush ; his tail was
ez thick ez yer arm, ’n’ his eyes blazed delirious
tremblings. He whirled like a bally cath’rine-
wheel, ’n’ bounced like a squib, all spikes ’n’ ’lectric
sparks, fer ha’f a minit, ’n’ then he started down
ther fact’ry. Lor lummy, what a hexibition!
That cat seemed t’ be a whirlin’ battery full iv
steel claws. He flew up ther walls ’n’ fell off,
whirled over everything ’n’ everythin’ he touched
was scattered in fourteen directions, same ez if
ther works iv a winnower had gone mad among
’em. He flopped into ther paste, ’n’ it was splashed
all over the shop ; he got among ther stacks iv
bags ’n’ ther cut papers, ’n’ ther envelopes, ’n’ the
air was full iv damaged stocks. Over n’ under
ther boards, up ther walls, V through the stacks
iv dryin’ wrappers went Bunyip, ’n’ 87 girls yelled
blue murder, ’n’ ther grey dust iv ages from the loft
rolled towards ther winders in thick clouds, ’n’
Fuzzy revolved on the edge iv things, ten times
madder ’n’ ther cat.
“I went after the brute with Benno’s ebony
ruler, ’n’ Fuzzy danced round the bloomin’ fray
with a iron spanner in his fist, but Bunyip had got
among the Beauties, ’n’ you might ez well try t’
knock the eye out ’v a shootin -star with a ’arf-
brick.
“ Goudy, don’t talk t’ me ; you never seen that
worry ; you don’t know nothin’ iv trouble. Ther
cat went through ther bunch iv girls, fair kickin’
off their goods, ’n’ their cries cud be ’eard a mile
off. Three fellers from ther printers’ flat raced
up ’ere, ’n’ got after ther cat with weights V things,
’n’ Bunyip went on spreadin’ himself. When he
struck a paster he buzzed all over her, up one side,
down the other, whizzin’ hair ’n’ hide ’n’ rags
inter the hatmosphere, ’n’ then got at another, ’n’
ther fact’ry was littered with hysterics, ’n’ fringes,
’n’ fluff, ’n’ distracted rats was dartin’ in ’n’ out,
huntin’ fer places iv refuge, ’n’ on the outskirts iv
ther trouble Fuzzy continued caperin’ like a crim-
son goriller in a fit, clean off his knocker, ’n’
pickled in misery. Presently he thinks he see a
fair openin’ fer a dash at ther cat, ’n’ lets go his
spanner, all-in, ’n’ takes Tommy the comp, fair
twixt wind ’n’ vittles, drivin’ him inter ther
corner, tucked up ’n’ scratched fer all engage-
ments.
“ Bunyip broke loose from ther Beauties again,
’n’ went down ther flat once more, revolvin’ on his
own axle, ’n’ boundin’ ’n’ bumpin’ somethin’
furious. Then he gives one grand bounce, takes
three turns out iv hisself, ’n’ bangs down ther lift-
well, still whirlin’, landin’ on ther head iv Tim
Fennessey, ther lorryman frim ther paper-mill,
dingin’ there fer a moment with 57 sets iv red-hot
claws, ’n’ then starts over Tim, workin’ his passage,
’n’ clawin’ him t’ ther bone. Tim thinks ther
devil’s collector had got him fer all his sins,
fetches a bellow, ’n’ goes roarin’ up ther steps inter
ther warehouse, where ther cat breaks loose ’n’
starts lay in’ waste ther selected stock, doin’
nothin’ t’ ther inks ’n’ gums’n’ pastes, kickin’ ther
whiskers off ther accountant en route , so ter speak,
fizzin’ among ther glassware, ’n’ raisin’ Spats ’n’
’ell generally.
“ Up here, meanwhile, ther Beauties wuz still
kickin’ their feelin’s loose, one big, red-’eaded
bounder leadin’ ther band, mainly cause iv a
suspicion concernin’ a rat in her dress-improver.
Tommy was still lyin’ in his corner with ther
spanner tucked in his darby, venturin’ a groan
now ’n’ agin, ’n’ ther foreman was fumblin’ his ’air
up, dotty with anxiety, wailin’ fer peace’n’quiet.
Suddenly—wosh ! crash ! biff ! —through one iv
ther front winders comes a stream iv water, thick
ez that, takes Fuzzy fair in the mush, lieeis him
over, ’n’ washes him under ther grinder, ’n’ mixes
him up with two ’undred weight iv emery-powder,
sluices the red-’eaded girl ’n’ Mother Kruse ’ead-
over-tip down the front stairs, swirls most o’ the
other girls round promiscuss among ther paste ’n’
paper, ’n’ then takes me fair ’n’ hard where ther
beer settles, ’n’ jams me tight inter ther works
iv a bag-machine, dead t’ the world.
“It seems ther racket upstairs fired an idyit
boy on ther clerical staff with an idea ther fire-
brigade was wanted, ’n’ he hailed ’em up quick ’n’
lively ; ’n’ nine wild firemen, arrivin’ with a reel,
’n’ seem’ the grey paper-dust from ther loft bil-
lowin’out iv the upstairs winders, let loose ther
bloomin’ reservoy, ’n’ shot a million gallons iv
water at us.
“Ther damage done almost turned ther bosss
belltopper grey in a single night. Bunyip was
found in ther cellar seven days later, ’n’a heroic
dustman removed him fer ninepence. Since then
cats ain’t bin pop’lar in this fact’ry, somehow.”
MARK M. POPE.


FOUR YEARS OF
DESPAIRED OF BEING CURED.
“ years ago,” says Mrs. Sarah A. Lawrence, of Pirie Town, Port Pirie, S. A.,
“I began to suffer from Rheumatism. The pain started in the small of my
JL back, and gradually went down into my legs and feet. My legs would, at times,
become swollen to three times their ordinary size, when I would be forced to
neglect all my household duties; and lay up for
weeks together. I had two doctors attending me.
They prescribed medicines and liniments, but from
which I derived no lasting benefit. I also tried many
medicines advertised, but never gained an,atom of
benefit from any of them. Twelve months ago my
son came over to Port Pirie ; just at that time I was
having one of the worst turns I ever had. He
advised me to undergo a course of Bile Beans, as he
knew of a very similar case to my own where the
Beans had proved eminently effective. Naturally,
after the disappointing experiences 1 had with medi-
cines in general, I laughed at the suggestion that
Bile Beans would cure me. But in the end his confi-
dence in them impressed me, and I decided to give
Bile Beans a trial. The first dose seemed to afford
me great relief—the gnawing pains left my back, also
the pains in my legs. Thus encouraged, 1 decided to
undergo a thorough course, and took one every night
for a month or so, at the end of which time I was
beginning to wonder if I was the same woman, such
a marvellous change had taken place. Three or four
boxes of Beans were all I took, and from the first
dose to the present date I have had no return of the
pains.”
f M
V
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS, HEAD-
ACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK-
NESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, RHEUMATISM, BAD BREATH,
ANAEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, PIMPLES, and ALL SKIN ERUPTIONS,
and, in fact, all ailments that owe
their origin to defective bile flow,
assimilation and digestion. BILE
BEANS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores at is. l.jd., or
2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (ci. ataining
three times Is. ljd. si?.e).
hd
fhdf
9
s'
40
Love and Hate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
mWO men talked by a camp-fire,
And one of them said to the other,
“All women, all, are my sisters,
And every man is my brother.
“ To-day I went to a farmhouse,
Foot-weary, athirst, distressed;
A woman stood in the doorway
And bade me enter and rest.
“ Her husband came with a welcome,
Hands grasping and lips apart;
I sat as a friend at his table,
And warmed my heart at his heart.
“ Thus ’tis, though the cynic taunt me,”
One man made speech to the other—
“ I hold all women as sisters,
And every man as my brother.”
Cn silence, as one not caring,
The other rested awhile;
As grey as the cold-grey ashes
The ashen grey of his smile.
“ 0 fool, if the gift be roses,
Fierce thorns shall be added later ;
All women are drugs that poison,
And man is at heart a traitor.
“ I loved ... was a fool like most men ;
Sought truth in her false eyes;
And found her soul a wanton’s,
Her lips—two scarlet lies.
“ And who said softly—think you—
‘ Forget... ’tis wise... ’twill end ? ’...
Who but her secret lover,
Who but my faithful friend !
“ Since then in my heart I cherish,
Fierce joy, the joy of the hater,
And hold all women as poison,
And every man as a traitor.”
Far off sat the man and woman,
And thought, while the shadows thronged,
Of him whom their hands had succoured,
And him whom their hearts had wronged.
They dreamt not how they had planted
(Blind slaves at the will of fate)
A love of the world in one heart,
And in one undying hate.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Overcoat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AND you think he suspects ?” cried Mrs.
Lovell. “Why don’t you tell the truth?
xou are tired of me, and this is your
way of breaking it_ off. Oh', deafest, haven’t I
been good to you—too good ? Don’t leave me ;
you’re all I have.”
She subsided into quiet weeping.
“ How unreasonable you are, Harriet,” said the
man, irritably. “ I love you more even than I
did at first. But what can I do ? No, your hus-
band doesn’t suspect ; he’s not sufficiently inter-
ested in your movements. I almost wish he Did ;
he might set you free. But that fellow Lord*
confound him ! Hinted that, as your husband’s
friend, he’d have to interfere. Nothing definite,
you know; just a nasty generalisation ; but I knew
it was pointed here. Oh ! why don’t you pluck
up heart; we could go”—he broke off reflectively,
adding, after a pause, “You do believe me, little
girl, don’t you ? ”
She pushed his hands away. He went across
and stood by the window, looking gloomily at the
street, blurred suddenly by a thin mist of rain.
“Why, it’s raining,” he complained. “And
I ve brought no coat.”
Mrs. Lovell crossed to his side ; her appealing
arms went round his neck.
. 1 1 know how wicked it is, but I wish some-
times he were dead,” she said. “ Many wives
would say that, but they are afraid, I suppose, of
God, But I am not afraid. Ah, don’t leave me
altogether. Come and see me again. Not so often
perhaps, but—l can’t live without you.” She
drew his head down and kissed him.
“ And so you wish he were dead. Well, it might
oe ” He stopped.and looked at her, the
unspoken question in her eyes. She understood.
“No, not that. Oh, George, not that. Promise
me,” she cried, fearfully.
“ You women take things so seriously. Do you
really think I am that, and you still profess to
love me ? ” He laughed reassuringly.
A penetrating drizzle still drove before the
wind as they said good-bye. She ran after him
into the hall.
Here s a coat of, Harry’s. Take it, or you’ll
get wet. Besides,” she whispered, “you’ll have
tp come again to bring it back.”
• Si e l au £hed. “Suppose I send my man with
it ?
But she knew that he would not.
-** * *
“You’ve been looking wretchedly ill for the
last week, Lovell,” said the Chief. “If I were
you, I’d go home and lie-up. I expect you’ve
got a touch of influenza.”
Lovell took off his coat deliberately; there
seemed to the Chief something almost wooden
about him this morning. “Oh, well, it’s your own
funeral,” he said, and went on with his work.
Lovell sat down before the desk. He found a
strange difficulty in picking up his pen. His
limbs didn t work easily this morning—he seemed
to have lost control. Also, he had a queer, heavy
sensation in the back of his head. What if his
brain Vere weakening, he thought, dully ! Poor
Harriet, what a blow it would be to her No •
decidedly he must keep well. But he felt detached
from the world this morning. The Chief over
there was part of a big dream, seen through a mist
of the blurred and crowded images of older dreams.
He did not know how to talk ; he had forgotten,'
in some strange manner. He tried to tell the
Chief that he would go home. And, by something
of an effort, his superior was in time to c-r*ch him
as he fell, his face working horribly.
Within five minutes a very young doctor spake
learnedly to the bewildered chief, who gathered
nevertheless, from amid a whirl of scientific
phraseology, the salient fact that Lovell had
paralysis of the brain, and would in all probability
die before nightfall. To justify the doctor's pre-
diction, and to the hysterical grief of his loving
wife, he died to schedule-time, and a joyous under-
taker subsequently paraded his customer round
every street in Sydney where his show would be
appreciated. It was a lovely funeral, and very
expensive.
Professor Lord was a cold, cynical man, who
knew more than most University professors. The
young ladies who attended his chemistry lectures
adored him, principally because he took no pain 3
to conceal his very unflattering opinion of them.
He sat in his dark room, and in the red light his
face looked grimmer than usual. As he rocked
the dishes he thought sadly of his friend Lovell.
Mrs. Lovell would, of course, marry that un-
pleasant young assistant of his. By one of life’s
little ironies, Lovell and Pike stood next to one
another in this very group he was developing. It
had been taken at a launch-picnic three weeks
before Lovell died.
The negative came up sharp and clear; there
was Lovell with his overcoat on his arm. A black
spot suddenly flashed out on the collar. It was
not a fault in the plate ; it would have come out
before in that case. It would give a sharp, white
light in the print, looking as if a small lamp had
been attached to the coat. And there was Pike,
confound him ; what a pity he was in the picture,
looking at Lovell too —the man, a thousand times
better than himself, whose chair he was so soon to
fill. Then a solution of the mystery of the black
spot formed hazily in the back of the Professor’s
mind ; and, as he worked, it grew sharply focussed
as the negative he was manipulating. Pike had
been experimenting with the stuff lately. “ I
wouldn’t put it past him,” thought the Professor,
as he placed the negative in the rack and washed
his hands.
Mrs. Lovell made a charming widow. Black
suits fair women, and she had not reached thirty
without finding that out. She started up as the
visitor entered, but sank back with ill-concealed
disappointment, for, instead of the man she
expected, Professor Lord gravely offered condo-
lences. She did not like him; he knew too much
about her, and, besides, she was convinced that he
hated her lover. She talked quickly and ner-
vously about her' loss—how prostrated she was;
how as yet she could hardly realise it; how sudden
it had been, and how poor dear Harry (here she
looked for her handkerchief) had admired and
esteemed her visitor. He, for his part, was just
as unoriginal. He sat looking as sympathetic as
he could, in the circumstances. He was not
convincing, because there is only one way in
which a man can satisfactorily show his sympathy
with a pretty woman, and also because he had a
shrewd idea that congratulations would be, but
for her infernal hypocrisy, more in order, And
so, after an hour’s ill-concealed mutual boredom,
he rose to go. “Do you mind,” he asked, with
his hand on the door-knob, “if I borrow one of
those coats on the stand ? It is cold, and lam
not so young as I’d like to be. I’ll return it first
thing to-morrow.”
“ Certainly, Professor,’’she answered, languidly.
“Glad to get rid of me,” he commented as he
took the coat and left the house. If she had been
interested enough in him to watch him pass down
the path to her gate, she might have wondered
why he held the coat on his arm. As he walked
through the rapidly darkening streets he laughed
and snapped his fingers. A small boy called out
rudely. But he still laughed.
, And that evening he carefully cut the lining of
his dead friend’s overcoat collar, and drew out a
small glass locket. The glass was stained purple.
“Ah,” he muttered, “Radium ! I thought so.
But I did her an injustice ; she would never have’
let me have the coat had she known. And now
for Mr. Pike. He is a bigger fool than I thought,
or he would have secured the evidence before
now.”
Pike dropped into a chair, with the letter in his
hand. And this was the end ; his carefully-planned
scheme had failed, and consequences loomed un-
pleasantly near. Well—he knew what to do.
The Professor had given him till six. Ten minutes
still—then the police and his efiemy. “I do not
expect to see you again.” Why was that under-
lined ? Did Lord think that the obvious course
would be missed in his excitement ? He excited—
he laughed bitterly at the idea. And how artistic,
how impossible of detection, had seemed his crime.
What devilish chance had revealed it to the Pro-
fessor ? He must have got the coat from Harriet.
If she only knew what she had done! Steps on
the stair
His last crime was not artistic ; the way of the
razor is vulgar, and leaves a horrible mess on the
carpet.
HOWARD ASHTON.
Said that the German Kaiser has never
forgotten or forgiven the curious tract published
some years ago by a minor German professor,
which, while pretending to be simply a biographical
study of the young Roman Emperor Caligula, was
really a bitter satire aimed directly at himself. It
is true that William ll.’s name was never men-
tioned, but a close parallel was drawn by showing
the advantages derived by the young Roman from
a brave and pious imperial ancestry, and especially
from his pious and talented father. This treatise
also alluded to Caligula’s many fine natural gifts
and-his perverted use of them; dwelt on his
versatility, vanity, perverted ambition, contempt
of wise counsel, his intermeddling character, his
carelessness of thoughtful opinions, his dismissal
of his most eminent minister, and so forth. The
biography throughout was so managed that the
young German monarch seemed to be the exact
counterpart of the youthful Roman Emperor.
The innuendo was sustained by quotations from-
Tacitus, Suetonius and other eminent authorities.
The story artfully concluded without reference to
the later and crueller days of Caligula’s reign as
though to suggest that these would be supplied
whenever the Kaiser made the parallel quite
complete. This brochure speedily ran into thirty
editions, a result due largely to those stupid
upholders of the monarchy who fitted the cap on
for the Kaiser by publishing alleged refutations
by the score, which, of course, only increased the
vogue and popularity of the satire.
“ S.A.G.” : Let the following, from
E. C. S. Schiller’s “Humanism,” convey some
comfort to the pessimist who, in a recent Bulletin,
asserted that “we could not look on the truth and
live” “ And even if we could be forced to the
admission that the pursuit of truth necessarily
and inevitably brought us face to face with some
unbearable atrocity, a simple expedient would
remain. As soon as the pursuit of truth was
generally recognised to be practically noxious, we
should simply give it up.”
The Dean of Norwich, at a London meet-
ing in support of a Bill for the exclusion of aliens :
Although, as a clergyman, I am not affected by alien
labor, nevertheless, as a minister of religion, I am in my
right place in raising my voice against the degradation cf
the homes of English working-men. I am in my right
place in protesting against their honorable labor being
destroyed by the intolerable exigencies and avaricious-
ness of sweaters. lam in my right place when I claim
for those who are born in this country a priority of right
to the labor that this country affords.


All Bushmen Use It
Loss of Appetite and General Exhaustion Quickly Corrected. Even
Scurvy is Quickly Cured. A Great Blood-Purifier.
hdfhd
Mr. Granger Ward, of Ferndale
Estate, Brisbane, Queensland, sends
us bis photograph, and gives this
very strong testimonial:
“ Some years ago while in America
I had fever and ague, which left me
in a most weak state and quite done
up. I took some of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla and it soon put me to rights,
and my strength returned. I can
safely recommend it to others. I
also in this country had, while in
the bush, an attack of scurvy, and
I soon got rid of this complaint
through using the same remedy.
For cleansing the blood, and for
eruptions of the skin, I do not think
it can be beat. Allbushmenuseit.”
Of course you know very well that the way to cure a disease is first to
remove the cause. Hence, you say, there is no sense in using ointments and
washes for rashes and eruptions. Neither is there any sense in taking
stimulants for weak nerves. First of all, go down deep to the cause of all
the trouble. You will find it in the blood. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out
all the impurities from the blood and makes it rich and red. Then good
health returns.
No other Sarsaparilla is like “Ayer’s ” Sarsaparilla. Do not forget that.
Look out for imitations. They are everywhere. Carefully avoid them.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies, Enriches, Strengthens, Builds Up.
Take Ayer's Pills with Ayer's Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER OO liowell. Mm»„ XT, 8. A.
UJ
CO
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great Engn.su oure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it 1 . For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are-perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. Ud. and 2s‘. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Free to Men.
IA#RITE to me and I will forward you my men sine
" • book, which will shpw you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. Tire book is free for the asaing, and you will
bless the day yo.» wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ili-heaith and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic and you ■’•hi be filled with energy,
strength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Mons AttMAtm Goto a no. 82 Little Flinders St., Melbourne.
Qronkennesg
Easily. Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for'all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appei-ite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure will
surprise and delight you.
ONE OF MANY:
Ravenslhorpe , W.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no desire tor drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully , R-O.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
AdJress ■
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored 111
Four Weeks by using
0& a* coros
ess£** ct °y \\f fc-
Tht only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Price 1 25., or four quantities in one, 365. Freifi’ht extra.
Is. and Is. Cd.
Agmts for Australasia —PEßßY & CO.. 47 Queen St.,
Melbourne; ms. IP. -Paulding: & Co., 16 O’Connell
St., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
DR. J. SOLUS BROWNE'S
fHLORODyNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyae.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BROHOHITiS,
DIARttUOBA, & c -> bears
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 28 1896, says:
“If I were aaked which single medicine 1 should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation.”
WEAK MADE STRONG!
as*
'a?
M
j .
Energy and Vigor.
Post Free.
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes* Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. Y ou rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Catalogue and Price List
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS,' DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise ybu.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
ASTHMA CURED
at home TO STAY CURED. Causes removed.
Health restored. Attacks never return. We have
treated over 52,000 Asthma and Hay Fever Patients in
Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Germany, and
America. By Mail only. Not sold in stores. Write for
Book 32C, FREE, postpaid. Dr. P. Harold Hayes’
Asthmatic Institute, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
STARTTNE PAY RIGHT!
A Good start is half the race. If you suffer from
BREAKFAST-TABLE
PEEVISHNESS
you commence all wrong. A world of meaning
is contained in this phrase, and if the trouble
arises from an impaired digestive system of
i “a bad night’* you will find a world of relief
in a box of
BEECHAM’S PILLS
fpat is the good of food if you cannot eat it?
BEECH A M’S PILLS will strengthen the
digestive organs and create a healthy appetite*
Pat is the use of going to bed if yon aannot sleep?
BEECH A DU’S PILLS will gently calm irri-
tation of the Nervous System and induce sound
and refreshing sleep.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEEGHAM, St. Helens, Eng.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes* price Is. IJd. (56 pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 pills*
[2.
I
'S
C There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
Snail Pill. Small Dose. Small Prices
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter's
OdSDLT HERR RASSMUSSEW,
SPECIALIST
IN PRIVATE NERVOUS, SKIN AND BLOOD DI SEASES, &C.. &C.,
“or“nd of Airline Herbll Rem.dieT® -
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Weakness, Varicocele, Loss of Vigor, Melancholia,
Despondency, Spots Before the Eyes, Loss of Memory, Spinal Weakness, Confused Brain,
Bashfulness and Lost Vitality. Makes Premature Weak Men Strong and Healthy
Boxes 6/• aid 12/-. Ordinary Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6. Write lor Circa!*!*.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood Diseases, Skin Complaints, Gravel, Stricture, Affections of the
Bladder, Urinary Passage, and all Chronic Constitutional Blood and Skin Diseases, no mat-
ter how caused or of how long standing. They are Purely Vegetable, and contain no Mercury.
Boxes 61, Course 23/6. Write for circulars.
ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS cure Anaemia and Internal Female Complaints, Boxes 6/*
Course 23/6; Rheumatic Pills, 6/; Pile Powders, 6/-; Fat-Reducing Powders, 6/; Liver Pills, 1/.
HEAD OFFICE : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Alio at Ms BRANCHES : 369 Queen St., Brisbane; IS Pulteney St„ Adelaide; 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington. N.Z.;
Perth, W.A.. 481 Hay St. and ill Hannan St.. Kalgoorlie. hans peter Rasmussen.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Price Is. Id.
Pott Free.


A Good Macintosh!
"CONNAUGHT Cape Coat, without
Sleeves, 20/-, 35/-, 42/-
" ASCOTT,” Sleeve Coat, with Ventilated
Yoke, 35/-, 42/-, 50/-
Perdriau Rubber Co.“
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
RUBBER MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
RUBBER
BOOTS.
Men's—l2/6, 15;-,
1716, 18/6.
Women ’s—l2/6.
GOLOSHES.
Men’s—3/9, 4b,
4/6, sb.
Women 's— 2/9,
3b, 3/9.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
UUphone No. 10it ATE R E R.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
■elected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public
and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCINQ FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
ANVdUKOO dlHind NOIONIHidOM
WORTHINGTON.
St., Sydney,
and 34 Clarence
WORTHINGTON PUMPS for all Services.
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues.
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
fdh
fhd
Spoons, Forks,
Pocke
Celebrated
PLATE and
MARK.
Ghf
Mbb
WOLF
or
AX
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Pkopes., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 83 YORK-BT,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“TKII 3ESXjiC3O3EC«’ I ’
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional oases and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Wining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
fd
hint gsn»«-»c-rrar v
AH Kinds of Engineers’Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
mer Blocks
Jo liars
Coupling's
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
o ®*®|' stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wneeis and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
-^S=£i^gS|^SL£'sr^ c e-st. 1 Sydney, N.S.W.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
Tba Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout tho World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separata 'y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
Vr BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. ~W3
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
A NOVEL PRESENT
f)N receipt of P. 0.0. or M.G. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsemo
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant. S/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. AH letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS', Gold Wire King-, Cole’s
Bosk A reside, Melbourne, Vic.
A GOLD OR SILVER WATCH FREE,
SEND NO MONEY.
fdh
We hereby undertake to give one
of our famous Gpld, or Silver
Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman's)
to every Man, Woman, or Child
who sends us the correct reading
of the following Puzzle..
| li"T M"S T««S O'-lTf
The only condition is that, It
your answer is correct, you pur.
chase one of our SOLID STER.
J.ING SILVER CHAINS, or one
of our Gold-filled Warranted
Chains! to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer
and enclose stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform
you if you have won the Watch.
We are making this offer solely
With the object of introducing
and advertising our goods.
Forward yonr letter to our address..
GOLDSMITHS’ COLOMIL CO.. Pitt St, Sydney.
Sold
BY ALL
First-Class
Stcw
m Australasia.
No. «17Si
2 Blades "Pampa
Cocoa Handle •
Buffalo Handle • 2/-
Stag Handle mum 2/6
ď hfd
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
ora thm
BEST.
wm
Size, s£" x 3£" x 5".
We are
and have
far Sal*-
SNOW DUPLEX
(all
for all
purpom)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
L. SCRVTTON & CO.. Ltd.
97 CLAREJJCE STHEHT,
ITDKTEY.
THE CARD CONCENTRATOR
BEATS EVERYTHING INVENTED.
tTS capacity is from 18 to 20 Tons per day. IT takes less than 1 h.p. to drive it.
IT has an Auxiliary Attachment for Treating the Middlings.
IT is very strongly built, and will outlast your Mine.
ITS PATENTS ARE SECURE. IT WILL SAVE YOUR MINERAL .
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
