

“G
E” BRANDY.
“PIG” STOUT (Guinness’)
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining’ anti Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
TT 4 MTA Di .AHJtra aT.WAVS A VAHIABIIB.
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS add GENERAL IRONMONGERY
d
—-/S|es;
jpUSJLV |_N G
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J, C. Lttdowici & Sok, LH„ VJ York Sr., Sydney
Braezd&ent’s Direct
Steam, Belt and
Electrically-driven
YDRO-EXTR
1
For Drying WOOL,
Making MEAT EXTRACT,
grylng SUGAR, 4e., Ac*
Sole Agents—
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND AND TO ARRIVE.
GIBSON. BATTLE & C° as ntt Street, SYDNEY.
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
s
WHISKY
C MB
Ks
THE HOTAI.
EDISWAN LAMP.
• V'
Economt in Ciirrbnt.
Equality of ItidHr.
THE
EDISON & Sf AH
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
lft Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYBNEY.
Queensland Bepdt:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE
'wed
LO
dg
CONTINENTAL MOTOR TYRES.
Wallace Continental Cycle Tyres.
AT ALL MOTOR AND CYCLE DEPOTS. N.S.W. BRANCH: 7 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY.
g
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
Mclntyre bros
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
GHOOM
1/9
DAILY
TREAT!
o
• ■<?.
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers of MINERAL WATERS
anti CORDIALS.
m
ĝd sds
No Other in
the World .
dďsgsggd
EQUALS
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED
ABSOLUTE
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Economy.
fa
Worry or Trouble
no LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
*
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Bizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
Top Quality
Bottom Prices
In Every Line.
PRICE LIST'PER BOTTLE:
WHISKIES.
Highland Park .. .. 4/-
Usher * Special .. .. K 4/2
Buchanan’s Special .. 4/2
sdgd dsg
s dsg
sgd
CHAMPAGNES.
Louis Roederer.. 5/21 10/
] >ry Monoj.iole .. 5/21 10/-
I'onuiiery .. 5/31 10-
Pijier Heidsieck... 5/pJ 10/
Perrier Jouet .. 9/9
Krug .. .. 2/0 4/9 9/6
Vict’r Cliquot 2/6 4/6 8/6
LIQUEURS.
Absinthe (Pernod’s).. 7/-
LenediiLne 5/-
Cherry Brandy .. .. 6/-
Curacoa 5/6
Chartreuse ' 5/C
“Greme <le Menthe ” 3/6
BULK SPIRITS
(Per Gallon).
Brandy .. .. 16/- to 42/-
Whisky .. '.. 15/- to 34/-
Rum .. .. 13/- to 20/-
Gin .. .. 14/- to 20/-
WINES.
Australian 1/- 1/3 1/6
Imported .. 3/- 4/- 5/-
ďs
IMPORTED LAGERS.
Munich dark .. .. Bd. 1/1
Elberfcld 9d. 1/1
Franz J osef .. .. 9d. 1/1
RICHARDSON’S,
158 RUSSELL ST.,
Next BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HEL!DON SPA — S 6 Stands pre-eminent as a Table Water.”
The Bulletin
Vol 26.—N0. 1318.1
[Thursday, May 18, 1905.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioo, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


BOOKS AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
During the next fort
night we purpose offer
ins- some of our surplus stock at a great reduction. A few of the books are quoted.
Corelli, Temporal Power, cloth Ss 6d for 2s, post 6d.
Kipling, Traffics and Discoveries, paper 2s 6d for Is 6d,
cloth 3s 6d for 2s, postage 6d.
Dixon, A Primer of Tennyson, 2s 6d for Is 6d, post 4d.
Life and Work of Samuel Smiles, Is 3d to 6d, post 3d.
Warner, How We Recovered the Ashes, fully illus., 7s 6d
for 2s 6d, postage Is.
Knight, South Africa After the War, 12s 6d for ss, p. Bd.
O’Brien, A Hundred Years of Irish History, 3s for 2s, p. 4d.
Lawson, Children of the Bush, paper 2s Gd for Is, cloth
3s Gd for Is Gd, postage Gd.
Walsh, The Jesuits in Great Britain, 7s 6d for 4s, p. Bd.
Morley’s Life of Richard Cobden, Gd for 3d, postage 2d.
The Memoirs of Paul Kruger, 12s Gd for 2s Gd, post Bd.
Bancroft, Gleanings from “ Onand Off the Stage,” Gd for 3d,
post sd. The Nemesis of Froude, 4s for 2s, p. Gd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Australian Art and Humour —
ON THE HOP!
Just Published, A superb library volume, hand-
somely printed and bound ; containing upwards of
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Pull
“ Bulletin ” size. Price, 21s.
STEELE RUDD’S MAGAZINE.
APRIL ISSUE (delayed by dengue) NOW READY.
TALES by LEADING AUSTRALIAN WRITERS.
Tablf, of Contents :
Sandy’s Selection.— Steele Rudd. Blue Eyes and Brown
Eyes.— J.K.S. Caricature and its History.— Geo. Taylor.
The Chemist’s Assistant’s Yarn.— M.F.J. Fetching the
Cows .—Roderic Quinn. Maoriland’s “ Pushful Joe.” —
Te Ngakara. A Search for the Bunvip. — Percival C. Cole.
His Wish. — Geo. Taylor. The Bush Bridal Chamber. —
Albert Dorrington. The Doctor.— K. Booty. The Green-
stone Meri Meri. — J. F. Millington. My Sawmill.— Ben
Sun. Evolution of the Boomerang. — A. Meston. Cap’en
Bilser’s “ Stiddiness.” — George Martin. Blackall Moun-
tain Sketches.— Phil Fairleigh (Joseph Ruskin). A Lazy
Song. Will Lawson. That Valuable Mare. — E. S. Soren-
son. Out-Back Realities, etc., etc.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis /
and Influenza I
and! the Prevention
of Consumption.
śg
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
B. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
veice and throat.”
MT HUDSON’S JUJUBES
fRFOi S TERFD) CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOOB DRUG,, Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6 or
from the Manufacturer G HUDSON, Chemist. Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
DepVo&rQueen’sPlace Agencies’ in all Australian States and N.Z.,andat 320 Regent Street W„ London.
THE RED PAGE.
AS MY GONDOLA GLIDES
JOHN TODHUNTER (b. Dublin, 1839)
has written much and pleasantly in
verse, and one does not know that in
verse anything can be said of him but
that he has written much and pleasantly.
His style is careful, his expression cultured ;
but his pulse, even with the force of Irish
legend behind him, is nearly always too faint
to thrill us. And above all we want to be
thrilled, to have and hold emotion. In his
new little book of Sounds and Sweet Airs
(Lond., Elkin Mathews; Is. net) Todhunter
weds his talent to music in seeking to express
musical moods and musical masterpieces.
Musicians will find interesting his poetical
transcriptions of the meaning of Schubert,
Tchaikovsky, Beethoven, and others; and
the booklet is charming and cheap. As verse,
one prefers the pleasure of quoting portion
ol tile sincerely-felt and happily-turned
IN A GONDOLA.
Suggested by “A Song Without Words." —"Some
Venice of the heart.”
In Venice !—this night so delicious, its air
Full of moonlight and passionate snatches of song,
And quick cries, a/nd perfume of romances which
throng
To my brain as I steal down this marble sea-stair,
And my gondola comes:
And I hear the slow, rhythmical sweep of the oar
Drawing near and more near, and the noise of the
prow,
And the sharp sudden splash of her stoppage. And
now
I step in ; we a/re off o’er the street’s heaving floor,
As my gondola glides —
Away, past these palaces silent and dark,
Looming ghostly and grim o’er their bases, where
clings
Rank seaweed that gleams, flecked with light, as it
swings
To the splash of the waves where they reach the tide-
mark
On the porphyry blocks—with a song full of dole,
A forlorn barcarole,
As my gondola glides l
'
And the wind seems to sigh through that lattice
rust-gnawn
A low dirge for the past—the sweet past, when it
played
In the pearl-braided hair of some beauty, who
stayed
But one shrinking half-minute, her mantle close-
drawn
Round the swell of her bosom, and cheeks passion-
pale,
Ere her lover came by, and they kissed. They are
clay,
Those fire-hearted men with the regal pulse-play ;
“ They are dust! ” sighs the wind with its whisper
of ivails,
“Those women snow-fair, flower-sweet, passion-
pale ! ”
And the waves make reply with their song full of
dole,
Their forlorn barcarole.
As my gondola glides.
Dust—those lovers! But love ever lives, ever new,
Still the same. So we shoot into bustle and light,
And lamps from the festal casinos gleam, bright
On the ripples ; and here's the Rialto in view 1
And black gondolas, ghostlike, slide eerily past.
And the gondoliers cry to each other : a song
Far away, from sweet voices in tune, dies along
The zoaters moon-silvered. So on to the vast
Shadowed span of an arch where the oar-echoes leap
Through chill gloom from the marble ; then moon-
light once more,
And laughter and strum of guitars from the shore,
And sonorous bass music of bells booming deep
From SI. Mai-k’s. Still those waves with their song
full of dole.
Their forlorn barcarole,
As my gondola glides.
Then the silent lagune stretched away through the
night,
And the stars, and the fairy-like City behind,
Domes and towers rising spectral and dim, till the
mind
Is entranced in a vague subtle maze of delight;
And I float in a dream, lose the present—or seem
To have lived it before. Then a sense of deep bliss
Just to breathe, to exist, in a night such as this —
Just to feel what I feel, drowns all else. But the
gleam
Of the lights as we turn to the City once more,
And the music and clangour of bells booming slow
And that vision of visions, St. Mark’s, the star-
glow
For its crown, I shall see l The great moment
draws near
As we glide ; and delight, like an exquisite fear,
Lays a hand on my heart, as I step to the shore—
The Piazzetta ! My life-dream accomplished at last,
As my gondola goes:
I am here, here alone with the ghost of the past!
But the waves still break in with their song full of '
dole,
Their forlorn barcarole,
As my gondola goes :
And the pulse of the oar, swept through silvery
spray,
Dies away in the gloom, dies away—dies away—
dies away !
THE GOSPEL OF PROTECTION
FROM time to time one is asked to indi-
dicate a book on tariff questions
written with special reference to Aus-
tralia. Preferential Trade, by Ben-
jamin Hoare, recently published by Geo.
Robertson, Melbourne (3s. 6 d.) is the book
that applicants want. It looks like the book
of a life-time, the book in which a man has
concentrated all his knowledge and all his
labour. The title is to some extent a mis-
nomer, explained in the preface :
National Trade is Preferential Trade, and the trade of
every nation within itself is the first consideration for
statesmen to aim at. Imperial Preferences are good, but
not as good as domestic Preference. My work is there-
fore for Preferential Trade in its widest signification of a
national policy of Protection.
The signification is a little arbitrary, and one
would have preferred it given as a sub-title. The
book should really have been called National Pro-
tection for Australia. As a treatise on that sub-
ject it is well worth a thoughtful man’s money.
je
Mr. Hoare writes as an advocate of Protection.
Well, we are all Protectionists now. It is quite
clear that Australia can only prosper as a self-
dependent community. To depend upon even a
friendly nation for the essentials of civilised exist-
ence is to nourish weakness that may be fatal.
Australia in British eyes is still “one of the
colonies, ” a British market. The ideal for Aus-
tralians is Australia her own market, with as
much of other markets as our energy and resources
can compass. Trade independence may even
decide the question of this community’s existence ;
and every industrial development is a fresh root
thrown into vital soil. We want foreign trade—
yes; but before foreign trade we want home in-
dustry.
The policy of Protection for Australia is fixed.
There is no longer question of Why ? —but only of
How i and How Much ? The principle stands;
but the extent of the application of the principle
may well depend upon time, and place, and cir-
cumstances. Industry—the rivalry of nations, the
interest of individuals—is not a pitched battle,
but a running fight that never ends. The value
of positions varies : the key to victory is found
now in one and now in another.
A*
Mr. Hoare, like so many of his predecessors,
would fain give us an ideal policy and hold it flaw-
less and speckless. This yearning for a panacea
is a very human yearning. Prom the inventor of
every shibboleth his votaries desire a blessing on
all their ends and sanctification of all means to
gain them. Adam Smith is only Procrustes writ
large, as Benjamin Hoare is writ larger. It is
sufficient to say that Protection is good for Aus-
tralia, and will be good for many a year to come.
It is unnecessary to say that Protection was, is,
and will be good for all the world without end,
Amen. Mr. Hoare does not say this, but his zeal
hints it. If his book had proved less it would
have proved a great deal more.
The plan of the book is to take leading questions
of controversy and hammer them into the shape
desired. Starting with a consideration of the
state of economic science, Mr. Hoare proceeds to
discuss the doctrine of cheapness, the values of
competition and co-operation, and the nature of
trade. Then he passes in review England, Ireland,
India, Prance, America, Turkey, Russia, Ger-
many, the Netherlands, and Australia —and
declares the world’s experience of Pree-trade
unsatisfactory. Free-trade being cast into outer
darkness, in the last section of the book blessed
Protection is invited to come into life eternal.
There is something to debate on almost every
page; but withal such a prodigious amount of
thought and industry has gone to make the book
that it well deserves close study.
—* ♦
The Cingalee case interests Australians. Capt.
Fraser wrote a play. The Hanjiahn , and offered
it to George Edwardes, a leading Eng. theatre-
manager. Edwardes declined The Hanjiahn , and
presently produced The Cingalee, which Fraser
alleged was based on the ideas of his play. A
London jury believed Fraser, and awarded him
30Q0Z. damages.—-*-The point is that all over
Australia innocent men and women are brooding
over literary and dramatic ideas, presently to be
written down and despatched to London. Some
of them get printed; some of them get “lost” ;
and how many of them are absorbed by unscru-
pulous publishers, or agents, or managers, and pre-
sently given to the world in another form, with
another named as author ? A good many, London
gossip declares; and The Cingalee brings apt con-
firmation of London gossip.
“ A statue ” (bust ?) of W. E. Henley, made by
Rodin from that extant by the same sculptor, is
to be erected in Westminster Abbey. One
wonders if it is the Poet they would honour? or
the Jingo ? Possibly both.
The vote for compulsory Greek at Cambridge
(in March last) seems a legitimate expression of
University opinion. If Greek is to be studied at
all, the obvious place for study is a University.
But the field of modern thought is so wide,
and the pressure of modern thought is so
great, that it has become impossible for any
individual to make the best of both worlds.
The Greek grammarian’s funeral can be deferred
only at the cost of a “modern side” dead
from the waist down. Cambridge pays the price,
and perhaps it is as well that somebody should
prefer Plato and Socrates to Veritas. Veritas
is such a vague personality.
In April Steele Rudd’s Magazine , A. Meston, in
the course of an article on “The Evolution of the
Boomerang,” declares that the Egyptian and
Dravidian boomerangs (so-called) are not boome-
rangs at all, and that the “return” boomerang
was originated in Central Australia, travelling
thence to the coastal tribes. This boomerang, he
says, was unknown to the blacks of at least one-
half the continent.
A pleasant set of alexandrines from “ L’Etran-
gere,” by Ephraim Mikael:
Elle vient. .et dijii de merveilleux murmures
Ont 4veille comme autrefois les bois ombreux ;
Appels des chevrepieds gorg&s de grappes inures
Pres des nymphes riant dans les fleuves lieureux.
Des voix ont dit des horns oublies de guerri&res,
D’ineffables syrinx soupirent dans les airs,
Le vent porte des bruits antiques de prieres,
Une ombre olympienne emplit les deux diserts.
RECENT BOOKS
The Purple Land, by W. H. Hudson (Lond.,
Duckworth; 2s. 6 d. ) is a chapter of the I rue
Romance, and one may love it well: better even
than the same author’s Green Mansions, this
book is the younger, fuller of life and good spirits,
reflecting joyous peregrinations in the Banda
Orientale of South America. For the matter,
it is almost Gil Bias without cynicism ;
for the style, it is almost Maurice Hewlett
without preciosity: indeed it seems fitted tb be
classic. Humour the writer has, and adventures
run to meet him the adventurous, and “Ah,
l’oarystis, la” derniere “maitresse ! ” he will cry
with engaging frequency. And shocking : he will
have it that the free and easy “Orientals
live better lives than some of their “civi-
lised” critics. “We do not live by bread
alone, and British occupation does not give
to the heart all the things it craves. Bless-
ings may even become curses when the gigantic
power that bestows them on us scares from our
midst the shv spirits of Beauty and Poesy.”
Hudson dares to quote with approbation the scan-
dalous sentiments of John Carrickfergus, who sold
his Scotch birthright for a mess of Oriental
chickens:
“ Edinburgh was my home. Had enough reading when
I was a boy ; heard enough psalm-singing’, saw enough
scrubbing and scouring to last me my lifetime. My
father was a bookseller in the High Street, near the Cow-
gate—you know ! Mother, she was pious—they were all
pious. Uncle, a minister, lived with us. That was all
worse than purgatory td me. I was educated at the High
School—intended for the ministry, ha, ha ! My only
pleasure was to get a book of travels in some savage
country, skulk into my room, throw off my boots,
light a pipe, and lie on the floor reading-
locked up from everyone. Sundays just the same.
They called me a sinner, said I was going to the devil —
fast. It was my nature. They didn’t understand —kept
on ding-donging in my ears. Always scrubbing, scouring
—you might have eaten your dinner off the floor ; always
singing psalms—praying—scolding. Couldn’t hear it ;
ran away at fifteen, and have never heard a word from
home since. What happened ? I came here, worked,
saved,. bought land, cattle ; married a wife, lived as I
liked to live—am happy. There’s my wife—mother of six
children —you have seen her yourself, a woman for a man
to be proud of. No ding-donging, black looks, scouring
from Monday to Saturday—you could n’t eat your dinner oft
my kitchen floor. There are my children, six of ’em, all told,
hoys and girls, healthy, dirty as they like to be, happy as the
day’s long; and here am I, John Carrickfei’gus—Don
Juan all the country over, my surname no native can pro-
nounce —respected, feared, loved ; a man his neighbour
can rely on to do him a good turn ; one who neyer hesi-
tates about putting a bullet in any vulture, wild cat, or
assassin that crosses his path. Now you know all.”
“ An extraordinary history,” I said, “ but Isupposeyou
teach your children something?”
“ Tfeach ’em nothing,” he returned with emphasis.
“ All we think about in the old country are hooks, cleanli-
ness, clothes ; what ’s good for soul, brain, stomach, and
we make ’em miserable. Liberty for everyone—that’s my
rule. Dirty children are healthy, happy children.”
One needs such a counterblast to “ the New
Syllabus.”
The Stepping Stone, by Helen Colvill (Lond.,
Constable; 2s. Qd.) looks like the old-fashioned
Family Herald novel brought up to the date of the
Newest Woman. There was a good deal to be
said for the mixture of sloppy sentiment and tall
talk that we call the Family Herald novel. As
melodrama, it was absurdly inartistic ; but it did
urge the old familiar Instincts every time. Even
Art cannot afford to dispense with Instincts; though
some artists try to make it. Hall Caine knows
better, and it is only to be desired that he would
become the artist that Hugo was (occasionally).
“ In the beginning was the Word,” says Scripture.
No ; in the beginning was Humanity. In the end
is the Word ; and literary art consists in setting
the twain partners to a country-dance, “hands
joined and down the middle.” The Word bows
for subtilising Man of course : the Woman curtsies
for primal Human Instincts. Helen Colvill pipes
a curious tune for them, with breaks and lapses
that are part of her inexperience or (more likely)
part of her nature. There are enough ingenuity
and novelty in the story to make it readable.
The Seething Pot, by George A. Birmingham
(Lond., Arnold ; 2s. 6d.), will interest every Irish-
man and Irish-Australian. It is practically a
sketch of Irish political and social forces
at the present day, with characters and in-
cidents taken from the history of the past
twenty years. Parnell figures as “ John O’Neill,”
and the picture of him is vivid. His struggle
with the Church is described with a change of
crisis : the Church appears as the selfish enemy of
Irish national aspirations, yet as the humane
helper necessary to individual Irishmen ; —and the
author confronts the dilemma despairingly. It is
apparently George Moore that is satirised as
Dennis Browne, and the satire is not creditable.
Moore may be a fool as a practical politician, but as
a literary artist he is a rare bird in Irish latitudes :
the island of to-day cannot show a brighter one.
The book touches Australia in bringing the central
character thence to inherit an Irish estate : he is
shown as the Austral-born son of an expatriated
“rebel,” and is not in the least like what such a
figure might be expected to be. If he were an
Irish-American he could scarcely seem more
unreal to us. This falsity makes the book seem to
begin badly : it improves as it goes, and ends by
leaving the impression that the author is honest
but intellectually limited, truthful and occasion-
ally mistaken.
J*
It must be admitted that Mrs. Humphry Ward
is writing better. She no longer preaches at us
on religious questions ; and her moral purpose, if
still felt, is deliberately evaded as far as possible.
What is surprising is to find her book sometimes
nearly naughty in the endeavour to be in-
teresting. One grieves that Mrs. Ward should
abandon the side of the angels: what, oh what
would Mr. Gladstone say if he could see !
The Marriage (Lond., Macmillan ; 2s. 6 d.) pro-
ceeds on the lines of Lady Rose’s Daughter.
Having realised that her unsupported imagination
is worth little, Mrs. Ward takes actual personages
with well-marked traits of life and on _ the
foundation of these erects her story. Lady Kitty,
the new heroine, becomes thus a real and fascina-
ting character. She is contrasted in her French
brightness and charm with a sensible English
maiden, and (very badly for the Moral) is per-
mitted to pick up both the men of the book while
the sensible Englishwoman starves (and cheats !)
for love. These men do not impress one, hut the
first half of the story is interesting. Then, when
the characters have been exposed and the plot
has to be finished, it becomes rather wearisome.
The sense of strain that one feels in all
Mrs. Ward’s books —as if she were trying to get a
little more out of her talent than her talent is
worth —accompanies one again through The Mar-
riage ; but the strain is so far efficacious that the
new book cannot be called dull. The generous
publishers give us Albert Sterner’s charming iTi'is-
trations for the mere half-crown. as illustra-
tions they do not bring conviction, but the deli-
cacy of Sterner’s brush is a delight.
Arthur Adams has some verses descriptive of
Bond-street in March Monthly Review. You can
tell an Adams poem in the dark by the glittering
exclamation-points that hedge his lines. He
scorns Bond-street as “ a little lane of useless
things ” decorated with languid women, champing
horses, and bloated pugs.
And, a suave carven god of jade, j
By some enthralled old Asian made,
With that thin scorn still on his lips,
Waits, in a window-front displaced:
The hurrying, streaming croivds he sees,
With the same smile he ivatehes these
As from his temple-dusk he saw
The passing of the centuries !
The exclamation-marks are bad form, of course;
since a reader, like a nag, may justly resent being
spurred all the time.
Adams, by the way, is returning to Maoriland
via Sydney next month : “I want some sun-
shine.” He has done pretty well with his talent,
and may reckon upon a moderate Eng. market for
the future. America has rather taken to him
(as America should).
In March Contemporary A. Kinnear relates the
ruin of Eng Parliamentary reporting. In the
good old Gladstonian days first-flight politicians
got “a verbatim note.” Few nowadays get even
“ a full report.” The public won’t read long
speeches, and the newspapers are glad to escape
paying the tax on space and reporting staff. The
Times alone preserves a semblance of the old
tradition; and only The Daily _ Telegraph,
and Morning Post besides maintain special
staffs in ‘‘the Gallery.” The rest are served by
fiercely-competing news agencies, which will supply
a nightly report at sgs. per week or 120 gs. for the
session ; while a special staff may cost 1440g5. per
session. There are nearly 26p “ Gallery men ”at
present, drawing as reporters about 6gs. per week
each, or as sketch and leader writers from 8 to
15gs. Special reports can be got as low as 10s.
per col.; and a big daily can have all its general
Britisli news for as little as 500 1. per annum.
From St. James’s Budget, Lond., April 7 :
Russia Shocked.— The Novoe Vremya has been devoting
a good deal ot attention to the Western Australian
Government’s inquiry into the reported ill-usage of the
aboriginals by the settlers. “in the name of our common
humanity,” it says, “should not Russia make some pro-
test against this continued infliction of unnameable tor-
tures on the remnants of an unfortunate aboriginal
community ? ”
They manage some things pretty well in Paris.
Here is Lepine, prefect of police, confronted with
a Latin quarter riot and...joining the riot ! At
least, he quells it by enrolling himself a permanent
member of the Students’ Association : which is as
if the local Commissioner, to calm a rowdy Uni.
procession, posed as an angel of peace on a trolly.
E. Lucas, quoted the other day as a humourist,
has had a curious encounter with the English law
of copyright. Mr. Lucas is known as a devotee
and editor of Charles Lamb, and is now watching
through press a new edition of the works of
Charles and Mary Lamb, which he cannot
make complete for the reason that many
letters are held as copyright by different pub-
lishers. The law of letters is this : the paper and
ink, and the substance in other words, belong to
the recipient; but the copyright, the right of
publishing copies of a letter, belongs to the writer.
Many of Charles Lamb’s letters have been printed
within the last few years, and each, as printed,
started on its separate career of 42 years’ copy-
right from the time of publication. Suppose that
a letter of Sbakespear’s were found. The pro-
perty in the letter would be independent of the
copyright, which would apparently belong to
. Shakespear’s heirs, if discoverable ; and copyright
would commence whenever the letter was pub-
lished, no matter how long after Shakespear’s
death.
A.G.S.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
FUR SKIN
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE. -91
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYDNEY.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and
POC
IALXiS.
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
RtJG-B'ST OB ASSOCIATION.
<£j\ol3o/y
VROVAL
v.y.
m
m
w*
J'Wn
r w
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “ Royal ” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd ‘•‘A.N.A.,” 14/6
HILBERT'S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6,
“DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-,
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association M&tch only, 15/-.
BOVS' SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 .. each 2 3
, „ 2 .. .. .. .. ~ 2 9
„„„ 3 3 6
„ „ „ 4 •• . -- ~4 3
„ „ Match II 5 9
ASSOCIATION.
Solid Leather, No. 1
„ 2 ~
~ „ „ 3
„„ „ 4
„ „ Match 111
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality..
s. d-
each 2 6
„ 3 3
~3 9
4 6
~, 5 0
14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4, 3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
No. 1
-i
4
each
s. d.
1 0
1 4
1 7
1 10
»»
II
No. 5
„ 6, Association only
„ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each 3 3
IVe can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices IT required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes .. ~ -. pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles .. .. ~ 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles .. .. „ 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps
Gold Cape, straps and buckles
2 0
2 a
s. d.
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads ,40
Same as above, larger size „ 5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair. ,
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE'BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS —Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CA PS— White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS— Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
sdg
beft&Y
3/6
Hanmca*
SL
STANbAftb
7/3
Ascot
2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap ... .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENGER’B RACQUETS.
Renshaw ..13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25 s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grej r or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s oov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
sĝ
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “G. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 11 s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
PF" Illustrated Sports, Fishing' Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
25
14
5 10
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/6
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
%
i
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging- Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder —
7s 6d, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels —
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
SPECIAL REDUCTIOM
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling: Price
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY,
"THE MAINE”
PiFle
She unrig PiFle A parr.
The Celebrated “ Maine ” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting: Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, 18in.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges
PRICE 1216
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
Weight, 2|lb.
śg
AMMUKTITIOKT.
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle ..
~ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d ' 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS
D B B L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
sg
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
. IQ A SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
HO i“aT,lp ton lever genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
f , g ’ ■ ‘ ontomatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
lock action, automatic v * av ehambered for 2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR
ALITsMOKELESs’ POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in the States ..
£l2 12s
—I
sg
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight £ R
s*lb
sg
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, pistol -- c
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. ..
I
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. 15s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.P., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2jib. .. 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3£lb 16 6
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


ar
S 3
Hotelkeepers, Fruiterers & Caterers
CAN PRODUCE
100dOZt AERATED WATERS for 30/-
WITH AN
AUSTBAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AND VERY LITTLE LABOR.
The only machine used by the Officers’ Ward Room of the Australian Squadron and Victorian
Railway Refreshment Rooms.
NO STEAM POWER required to work it. Easily erected, and occupies very little space.
The “ GLACIER SODA FOUNTAIN.”
A Beautiful Marble Fountain for Chemists and Fruiterers. The most
economical fountain ever manufactured, outrivalling all American productions.
For further particulars write for our Illustrated Catalogues.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
Sole Manufacturers,
214-216 Queen Street.
MELBOURNE.
Agent far North Queensland: BURNS, PHILP & CO.
ft
L
The basis of which is "Montserrat™ Lime-Fruit Juice.
Far Superior to Worcester
and oilier Sauces*
AQENTS~E\\Iott Bros. Ltd., J. Conrell & Co., D. Mitchell & C©., Sydney
D. Cohen & Co., Newcastle.
dg
sg
BY
ROYALTY.
sgd
Will do more to give you a feeljng of youth and brightness than all the drugs in
the pharmacopoeia. The hard street is made ns soft and pleasant to walk on as a grass
lawn. Saves fen times their cost in the boot bill.
Render worn down heels impossible, relieve spinal concussion thus saving the nerves
and reducing fatigue. Sold by every up-to-date boot and shoe dealer and general storekeeper.
CAUTION —Seo tho name “ WOOD-MILNE ” on every Pad.
sole Agents for AUSTRALASIA, D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.
Adelaide. Kalgoorlle. Launceston. Townsville. Perth. Melbourne. Brisbane. Broken Hill.
Sole Manutacturere of the Wood-Milnc Heels -REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
I
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION. -5m Capsule marked ENO’3 * FRUIT SALT.’ Without It you hart •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Proparod only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT' WORKS. LONDON, BNG.,
by J. C. UNO’S P*t®nt.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
THE “MELBA” ACCORDEON.
g
sg
\\^ E do iiot: reeoininend the “ HELBA ” because it is lower in price
than others, such may be true, but because the “ IT ELBA ”
excels all others in the most important quality an instrument can
possess—TONE.
This, is the. result of the superior quality of the alloy used in the
reeds, and the employment of experts in reed “ voicing,” an art which is
imperfectly understood by the ordinary maker of Accordeons.
i ‘‘ - ACCORDEON, No. 717, is fitted with three
sets of reeds, nine fold double bellows, leather lined corners fitted with
metal protectors.
To anyone mentioning
Free for 205., including
Popular Song’s, Waltzes, &c.
Tub Bulletin we will send the above Post
Carl Bruno’s Accordeon Tutor, containing
ALLAN’S, 276, 278 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NERVOUS PROSTRATION
A Remarkable Cure in Redfern.
The Case of Mrs. M. J. BUDD.
(By a Special Reporter.)
The time has arrived when it is im-.
peculive that the afflicted members of
the community should take steps to
protect themselves against the evils
which tend to render their lives un-
happy ; and as so many go on suffering
year after year through lack of ser-
viceable information, it is deemed ad-
visable to place before the public the
story of Mrs. Mary Jane Budd, of 38
young-street, Redfern, so that a salu-
tary lesson may be learned. What Mrs.
Budd said to our special was this
“It is now eight years since my hus-
band died, a calamity that took place
when we had been living in this house
nine years, so you see 1 have been re-
siding here a good while.”
“Yes,” assented the reporter. I be-
lieve you are an old resident of these
parts ?"
“1 was born in Bourke-street, and
have lived in this locality all my life.
But to go back to my story. It was
not long after my great bereavement
that I became a total wreck. The blow
nearly killed me, and for a good while
I was really stupefied with grief. Tor
some considerable time my memory
was completely lost, and it was im-
possible for" me to concentrate my
mind for a few minutes upon any sub-
ject. When my dazed condition passed
away it was then that I realised how
terribly my whole system had suffered,
a fact which dawned upon me as I
stood at the table one day feeling so
ill that l did not think 1 would live
till the morrow. For my own part I
did not care what happened, but I
thought of my three little children,
and said to myself : ‘Oh, God ! What
ever can I take to do me good for
their sakes ?’ ”
“Was that the lirst time you thought
of taking anything ?”
“It was the first time I thought of
acting on my own judgment, the rea-
son being that 1 was under a doctor
for some length of time, and his treat-
ment hadn’t benefited me In the
least.”
“What did your medical attendant
say was wrong with you ?”
“He told me i had taken my afi lo-
tions inwardly, and that my nervous
system was in a very weak state. I
knew that well enough, unfortunately,
for T could not even bear to hear the
children talking, their voices got on my
nerves so, and if a tap came to the
door i nearly fainted with fright. I
hadn’t the least desire for food, and I
think one of my greatest afflictions
was my inability to get to sleep. For
four years I did not know what it was
to sleep properly for one night. It was
usual for me to remain awake till
about three or four O'clock in the
morning, and then doze off till half-
past five, when I always awoke with a
start, and would get no more sleep
till next morning. And the dreams I
had each time I slept—they were aw-
ful. But my mind was always distort-
ed with hideous fancies for that mat-
ter. When 1 put the light out at
night, 1 imagined I coukd see some-
body sitting on a chair in front of
me. The form would then stealthily
approach me, and for a time I could
neither speak or move. After a great
struggle, however, I would manage to
gasp, ‘Who’s there ?’ and whilst I lay
there awaiting an answer my feelings
of pent-up terror were dreadful. Many
of the neighbours could tell you how
often I have mentioned to them the
things I imagined I coul'd see, and
how, when I thought somebody was
sitting by mv side, I screamed aloud
for help. And after those frights I
was very bad indeed—so exhausted
that I could scarcely move; in fact/'
“You must have lost weight during
your illness ?”
“Oh ! I was ghastly. My bones
were almost protruding through tn\.
shin, and anybody seeing me ■ conic
not have thought otherwise than that
1 would never get better again. i
really thought I was doomed to die.
and feel sure I would have been dead
long ago only for Clements Tonic,
which was the last medicine of all
that I took. A friend often used to
say, ‘Why don’t you try some Clem-
ents Tonic ?’ but 1 always postponed
.doing so ; but at last 1 thought that
as I had heard so much about it, -and
nothing else could do me any good, I
would give Clements Tonic a trial.
This was the decision that I came to
the day that I stood at the table
feeling that I could not last another
twenty-four hours, so w 7 hat better rea-
son than that could I have for saying
that Clements Tonic saved my life ?
You must understand that I was quite
incapable of doing any work, and that
it was a common thing for me to be
in bed a fortnight at a time, utterly
unable to attend to anything that re-
quired seeing to, so when Clements
Tonic began to put a little life and
strength into me you can imagine how
thankful I was for it. And weren’t
the neighbours surprised to hear that
] had taken a turn for the better ?
JVlv word, it was a matter that aston-
ished nearly the. whole of Redferfe. But
what a relief it was to have my head-
aches ease off after suffering so long
with them ! , And wasn’t I glad to
feel that Clements Tonic was also do-
ing good to my, nervous system ?
Wny, I had only been taking: that
remedy a few weeks when I could stand
noises' of any kind without wincing,
and already I was getting more sleep
than I had had for years.’’ ■
“Bid you feel mold refreshed after it
than formerly ?’’
“Oh ! yes ; much. The reason why,
I suppose, was that I did not dream
at all, so both my brain and body
were resting all the time, and when I
awoke I felt so fresh and light heart-
ed—no nasty taste in the mouth as
before, a clean tongue, and, my word,
what an appetite for breakfast 1 had !
Clements Tonic did make me eat rnd
no mistake, and my nerves were get-
ting stronger and stronger as the days
went by. Eventually my old fears
and imaginations died right away,
nothing ever troubling me, and all
this wonderful change was entirely due
to Clements Tonic. Oh !_ I have
thanked God thousands of times that
I Was guided to take that remedy, and
I am so anxious that other sufferers
may regain hope by hearing of my
cure. But Clements Tonic served me
well in other ways. It put an end to
the giddy feelings I used to have, re-
moved the swollen feeling from mv
eyes and the suffocating sensations
from my chest, then, finally, built up
my strength so perfectly that every-
one could see my health was thor-
oug-hly regained.’’
“May 1 publish your remarks ?'’
“I gladly give you permission to
publish them in any way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MARY JANE BUDD, ol No. 38 Young-
street, Redfern, in the State of New
South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing' of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of icy illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements —which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment : and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
/3
- of
Subscribed and declared at Redfern this
twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand nin<
hundred and four, before me,
THOS. CADDY, J.T.
P9ST
POST CARD
POST CARD
£<card
5T 1 ** &/JW
N
0 V
sď
TO INTRODUCE OUR NEW | a, $
PICTORIAL POST CARDS, best Id. Post Card in Australia
As a huge advertisement we will forward to anyone sending their
name and address, 120 of our best Id. post cards free. Anyone may
send. We want no money. We merely ask you to sell these post card*
amongst your friends in packets of six at 6d per packet. After selling I
the cards (which will not take long) you return the 10 s. and we send A
you any present you may choose from a list we send. By continuing
the sale of these cards you may earn a Solid Sterling Silver Watch ]
fLadv’s or Gent’s). We take all risks. Cards returnable if not sold. /
Send at once to THE PICTORIAL POST CARD CO., i
r" r Falmouth Chambers,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
HARDY’S
W
700 Prizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaida.


Mfcte/ fj'
ri/L
You go to your barber, week after
week, hoping the shampoo will cure
your dandruff. But the dandruff con-
tinues to form as badly as ever. The
trouble is you do not go at it in the
right way. The scalp is diseased, and
you must cur© it before yoii<r dandruff
will ever disappear. Simile washing
will never bring this about.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
This splendid hair preparation cures
dandruff because it cures th© disease
of the scalp, and then the dandruff
soon disappears for good.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor will prevent dan-
druff, and at the same time it will
keep your hair soft and glossy.
Purveyors by
Royal Warrant
gdsg
To His Majesty
The King:.
If you require a treat, use
“MOIR’S”
PURE PICKLES
They are absolutely
perfect.
An Inexpensive Table Delicacy
“MOIR’S”
Soup Squares
Rich Soup made in a
few minutes. Try some.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 5 MACQUARIE PLACE. [2
MARTIN’S
PILLS
k Safe Medicine for Ladies.
The reason is they are purely a vegetable
Composition, and expressly suited to the con-
stitution and requirements of women. _ This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow their use. Thousands say they
save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify the complexion, no
headache, no pain, no flushing, no giddiness,
no anxiety. They make work a pleasure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price SI-. Sold everywhere. Sole
proprietor, M ART IN , Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.
PLEASURE PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators.
THESE world-renowned INCUSATORS are worked on
a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, “IS"!
241-243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne,
THE GUINEA KING^.
0 %r b .
M
ffs
. &;
■
Halid
Camera
To carry 18
J-Plates
with Rapid
Rectilinear
Lene.
Finest In-
stantaneous
Shutter
focussing up
to 4ft. Post
free to any
part ofAus-
J. H. SQUIRE & CO.,
Kodak Depot, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
dsg
THE CAREFUL HOUSEWIFE
does not forget when ordering tho household goods t® include a bottle of “ BONNINGTON S
I2&ISH She knows it is advisable t® have this medicine in the house, as it is a
certain remedy fir troublesome Colds, Bionchitis, and Chest affections generaby. It never
fails t® cur® if you obtain the genuine article,
BONNINtSTON’S IRISH
(OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.)
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
Mem.: Business Men.
To obtain the benefit of -Style and Comfort
at a minimum outlay, you should wear . .
“BIG BLOCK” CLOTHING.
These Shit, ere Just the thine lor bush.™ wear, .nd male .p.elall, t.
Serge, Indigo Dye, and All Wool Fanoy 4()S. PER SUIT Post Free,
and when you wear one ol these Suits thesee™*!,ev*t around Ihe collar?the vest
«“ t '-“™«“ «* “ d h “ g gr “*-
to £ E£'“LTds, Tweeds, and Indie. H.r,.. a, ,0,0 post ~.,.
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS to measure, in fawn and brown beaver cloth, velvet collar, at 32/6, post free
ASCOT OVERCOAT (full length rom neck to feet), in rainproof covert coating and rainproof tweeds, to
measure, 4£ cal]> gend for patterns an d self-measurement form and they will be sent you
post free on receipt of request.
TRY WHERE YOU WILL, YOU CAN’T BEAT THE BIG BLOCK CLOTHING.
Finney, Isles 9 ’ Co., Limited, The Big Bleck, BRISBANE.
sg
©
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges.
The proof of the pudding is the eating; the proof of
the cartridge is its shooting. The great popularity
attained by Winchester rifle and pistol cartridges
during a period of over 30 years is the best proof o
their shooting qualities. They always give satisfac-
tion. Winchester .22 caliber cartridges loaded with
Smokeless powder have the celebrated Winches-
ter Greaseless Bullets, which make them cleaner to
handle than any cartridges of this caliber made.
ALL SUCCESSFUL SPORTSMEN USE THEM.
Don’t wait till Xmas
to present yourself or friend with a
"SWAN
Fountain Pen.
A boon to the Business Man,
the Cleric, Lawyer, Doctor,
Student, Litterateur,
or Artist.
St
Lasts
for Years
‘SWAN” PENS are fully guaranteed.
Sold by all Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Catalogue post free
Mabic, Todd & Bard,
93, Cheapside, London, E.C.
iThe Real Thing i
I At Lasts *
TUSSELL’S
PURE RICH
CREAM
L GOLDEN A
V BUTTERFLY J
BRAND,.
FUSSELL'S
CREAM
Is NOT a Makeshift NOR a Substi-
tute but PURE Mountain Pasture
CREAM. Guaranteed free from Pre-
servative &nd put up in Sterilized
Tins. Keeps good IN ANY CLIMATE
FOR MANY MONTHS. On sale
almost everywhere, but if any difficulty
in procuring it, apply to special repre-
sentative for the district—
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.,
George Street, Sydney.
Various Verses.
A Vagabond.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When eagerly I sought the road
There gleamed before my sight
The city of Great Hopes Attained—
A vision of delight !
Alluring flowers were in vain
To tempt me from the track ;
My eyes were all in front, nor looked
To either side or back.
The road branched off on every side
And twisted in and out,
And finding it no single way
I first began to doubt.
For to my anxious-toned request
I found each road was right—
I had a hundred eager guides,
Each with the only light.
So, pausing in perplexity,
The wayside flowers’ scent
Appealed in beauty to my soul
And filled me with content.
Now, idling, mock I those who mock :
“ It is not there—or there,”
They say : while I, far wiser, ask
“ Why is it any whore ? ”
N.S.W.
HAMER.
To-day.
The grass hath drawn its tide across thy grave,
And, like a pearl within its heart of wave,
A daisy lifts its head ;
While, sweeter than the double reeds of Pan,
Or violin of some soul-trembling man,
The river sings a-bed.
And, in the fragrant, blossom-spotted hedge,
Or where the clover ripples in the sedge,
Glister the wings of bees.
0 heart o’ me, O heart V me, my love,
Canst thou not hear the cooing, milk-white dove
Between the crested trees !
I have forgiv’n thee—And thine error, too,
I have forgot; O dear one, let me woo
Thee, as thou art, in Death.
I will thicket thy grave with roses red
And gold—with thorns to guard and buds to
spread
Jewels at ev’ry breath.
N.s.w,
HUGH M'CRAE.
Cre o.
I do believe, although I may not know,
That Something stands behind this passing
show—
Something omnipotent, aloof, benign—
A God, it may be, knowing me and mine,
Weighing and sifting, winnowing perfectly,
Our wheat and chaff. It is enough for me.
In my Lord’s hands I am content to rest,
Asking no favors. If He knoweth best,
Why should I prompt him amateurishly ?
If He knows not, nor cares, as well may be,
lam content. I whimper not nor pray.
For me the chances of each golden day,
The moment’s joy hard-won in Fate’s despite,
The splendid solaces of fragrant night,
The prizes wrenched against o’erwhelming odds
From out the very bosoms of the gods.
I love my world in Carnival or Lent.
God’s in his Heaven ? Perhaps. lam content.
I do believe that manhood makes the man ;
And I love men, and hate the puling clan
Of sophists and ascetics dank and sere
Who poison all the sweetness of the year.
To do and dare, to seize all life can give,
To live exuberantly while we live ;
To gather in the purple and the gold
With both hands eagerly, to grasp and hold
The very kernel ®f each moment’s joy ;
To keep sensation pure from base alloy ;
To think our secret thoughts at need out loud ;
To make no base concession to the crowd ;
To love the sun and breathe no borrowed breat..;
To keep our Ego stalwart te the death —
All this is to live honestly and well,
True to one’s self. All else is squalid hell
Of inanition. Better waste one’s prime
In wild attempts beyond the stars to climb
Than rot respectably before one’s time.
I naturally love all womankind,
And yield them fealty of heart and mind.
So long as they are women staunch and true,
So long as they are women through and through,
So long as they are women body and blood,
They must be sweet and in their essence good.
The other sort, the millinered pretence,
With neither pulse nor purpose, sex nor sense ;
Morally hipless, futile as a worm . . .
(One needs an adjective to make her squirm)—
Our Perfect Lady of the Poison-Brews.
Instinctively I hate your squawking shrews
And smirking spinsters of suburban routs . .
Still . . . Phyllis turns her head away and pouts
The coy refusal that demands a kiss.
The Queen still guards the pearly gates of bliss,
Where we have passed with Lalage and Tess,
And Inez, and that exquisite lithe Bess,
Whose eyes condoned audacities they spurned,
And sweet, warm Kate, who’d blush at half a
word,
And yet eclipsed Columbus in her realm . . .
“ Youth at the prow and Pleasure at the helrr.”
(The phrase seems somehow twisted as I quotj) . .
Fair Hebe’s dimples and bluff Pan’s shrill not-. . .
These things make life worth while, when all .3
said ;
And, these things lacking, one were Letter dead.
TAS.
FAANK MORTON.


SBC
BABY’S SION
SCJIU» AND HR
Something for Mothers to Think About
EVERY CHILD born into the world with an inherited
or early developed tendency to distressing, disfiguring
humours of the skin, scalp, and blood, becomes an object
of the most tender solicitude, not only because of its suf-
fering but because of the dreadful fear that the disfigura-
tion is to be lifelong and mar its future happiness and
prosperity. Hence it becomes the duty of mothers of
such afflicted children to acquaint themselves with the
best, the purest, and most effective treatment available,
viz., THE CUTICURA TREATMENT.
Warm baths with Cuticura SOAP, to cleanse the skin of crusts and soales
and soften the thickened cuticle, gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, to instantly allay itching, irritation, and inflammation, and soothe and
heal, to be followed in the severer cases by mild doses of Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills (see below), to cool and cleanse the blood, are all that can be
desired for the alleviation of the suffering of skin-tortured infants and
children and the comfort of worn-out, worried mothers. A single set is
often sufficient to cure when the best physicians fail.
Millions of Women (Jse Cuticura Soap
Assisted by Cuticura Ointment, for preserving, purifying, and beautifying the skin, for
cleansing the scalp of crusts, scales, and dandruff, and the stopping of falling hair, for
softening, whitening, and soothing red, rough, and sore hands, for baby rashes, itchings,
and chafings, in the form of baths for annoying irritations and inflammations, or too free
or offensive perspiration, in the form of washes for ulcerative weaknesses, and for many
sanative, antiseptic purposes which readily suggest themselves to women, especially
mothers, and for all the purposes of the toilet, bath, and nursery.
Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated) are prepared to meet the wants of
delicate women, and sensitive children, and are pure, sweet, and tasteless. They are
beyoiid question the most successful blood purifiers and bumour cures yet compounded.
Cotiouba Remedies are sold throughout the world. Australian Depoti R. Towns ft Co., Sydney. British
Depot: 27-28, Charterhouse Sq. t London. French Depot: 5 Rue de la Fail, Paris. POXXBB Drug and Chem.
Coßr., Sole Props., Boston, U, S. A, ** AU about the Skin. 1 ' free.
sg
The TJnWergal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
% v
s
The Physician'S
CV/' for Gout,
Ri._u uatic Gout
and GraTel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
sg
the
‘PLUM’
sg
THE
‘PLUM’
ENTLE MEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfeotly hollow grpund, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM 1 " RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7*. 6cL
“ RAZOLEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
Priob
/ Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10a. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 2%
\ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 15a. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30a.
Registered and Sent Post Free to ant Part of tub World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and It. on Intercolonial Cheques.
8oi« Agents: CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney.
ADDRESSES
5s
EXECUTgO BY
*ecu
BBS
ILLUMINATING
isr.
ROBE Rt^
s C**AMO€RS
,384 e
ft* « tp<6 _ Srnyg
FREE TRIAL for 90 PAYS
85
I
w
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-
card with yeur name and we will arrange to
forward you at once one of our latest Improved
High Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it
three months then pay us if cured, and the price
will be only half what ethers ask for their inferior
belts. If not cured, you return the belt to us
at our expense and your word will decide. We
are willing to trust you entirely, knowing that
we have the best and most perfect belt ever
invented, and nine men in ten always pay
when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all cases
of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and Stomach
Complaints, Nervousness and all weaknesses of men and women.
WE WILL GIVE FREE
to each person writing us one cow of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book, which should
be read by all men and women. Drop us a post-card, and we will send it to you Free in plain
wrapper. If you are weak in any way, delay no longer, but write to-day for our splendid
Book and Belt—Free. Write to-day, and you will be satisfied with the result.
= ■ ■ . ' W.l '
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept, m,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
s
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price, complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
f." r
8 I
n-u iii m
JL J if . ,17
«wlf
■I I
160 Korae-Pawer Elaetrla Plant, aperating- at
The Cathcart Proprietary Gold Mine, Ararat, Viotorla.
jANZ & Go,
LIMITED
BUDAPEST, HUNGARY.
Complete Electric
Lighting, Power ana
Traction Plants.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
The Austral Otis
Engineering Co.
Cr. Hannah & Kavanagh Sts., South Melbourne.
LTD.
WILL ANDRADE’
S LIST OF
śgsg
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50engravings,new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Date, Easy Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
i new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, Is Gd How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Rush for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is Gd each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, Gd.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d.
Macfadden’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
of Superb Manhood, ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tameron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
2/. How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, .Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise. Is 6d. Stolen Sweets, ls6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is, Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues : —No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 8:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7: Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE —l
JAYNE S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHiS.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatic*,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Rented*•
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poinqdestkk & Truman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
sold in two sizes, 9d. ii Is. 6d.
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstkb & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister tlie
skin— There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs—lt is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated ) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and what you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M E R „ g cs
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their seriou consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple it al who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S3TID:ET:EJ3r.


NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
Uk/IM POLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
■ * Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, Bs. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
rn Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part o( Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOI.K ABBNTS.
w
ThtJUtult.
CRAIG &. AITKEIM. N.s.w. Barber* Supplj
House. 664 QEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Perspiration and Dust,
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, Insect bites, &c.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
No
Humbugging
Offers or con
ditions to
comply with.
8-jIJ
UJ
c c
In order to introduce our Goods into every
home, a lady’s or gent.’s Rolled Gold Watch
Chain and Pendant will be presented, entirely
free, to each purchaser of one pair of our Special
Cuff Links, price, 4/9. Please note that we send
the Watch Chain and Pendant complete in case
with warranty along 1 with the Cuff Links, im-
mediately we receive your postal note for 4/9 ;
if Sd extra is added goods will be sent by regis-
tered post, and thereby save any risk of breakage.
Address, THE INTRODUCING COMPANY,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
USE'S W 7
Insecticide
~JSM KiIIs
ft
>f iHj NSECT3
°f
ATION9
USES
AsK
f°H
THE BALLET GIRL
sg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frae, la
Ths Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froo, la.
end Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
box 9i&, q.p.0., Sidney.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
sg
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 60 engravings, new 1004 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, la posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnbllt’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to WrbstLb, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s How
to Train the Horse, Is Bd. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is Bd.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr, Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Oiiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
HOME cyclopepia
EMBRACING
TH* POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromes. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physioian. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riajre which makes it a superior guide to the action of men ana
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this lt wll be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILtHfiIS AND SIXPENCE.
How TO Mesmerise, la. Mhtal-workin* for Ama-
trors, SOLOERIWO, Brazins, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
sost. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
!hat Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Oamillb, Is
Sost. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Ton,no and
.bpairino, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, fis 6d.
Poultry Keepino, Is posted. Parlor Maoic, Is
SosUd. Evert Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
[an His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
AND LIGHTNING CALCULATOR. Is. AUSTRALIAN DOCTOR,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Stearin® Made SAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gano op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjeots, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements op Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don't be fooled into paying mere»
Compare my prices with other* and
eave your oaeh. B* - JSttallithed H Yean.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
♦
Writ# for my _
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTH,
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SArrno, genuine,
la. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2a 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, la.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret His tort CoVrt of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan's Freemasonry,
la 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Sd posted.
Toxology, 7s Cd post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2a.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full < rections, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jos. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 3d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Boon, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SAPmo, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The WifE’s Handbook,
la 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, la post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, la 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness an*
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers op Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Od each posted. Bride of tiif. First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Fijnch
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
LADIES'
Watches
Ob GENT.'S
(SI Chains,
Birthday RINGS
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets— FßEE.
A Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs
from to £ 10. Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous frew Life EClectine
Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box—a grand
remedyandcure forall impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
ders, a tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills. , , . ,
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show ft to your friends. This is a grand oppor-
tunity to get a fine Watch and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. You
take no risk. Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, W.5.W.
Samples of the Hundreds of Testimonials we receive Daily.
m
««
t®
ss
e
Electine Medicine Co.
Mr. McDermott is buying all the pills himself.
They have done him so much good that he will
not be without them.—MßS. D. McDermott,
Qurjrobah, N.S.W.
ii Bourke Street, Footscray, Vic.,
Electine Medicine Co.,
Dear Sir, —I have sold your pills quickly, and
have lound them very good, and vrill you kindly
send me 8 more boxes. — Mrs. J. Beisha.
ds
Private, Nervous, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most successful
Specialist. Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physician In Australasia.
śg
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief ; but men who are weak
and despondent require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cures
are effected daily by Dr. W. Carter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
ftydney Institute of
Medicine & Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personally in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
by a forfeit of £250, and testimonials of hundreds of cured patients, not only in Sydney, but from every
town and village in Australasia. He invites you to call and have a confidential chat about your trouble. A
thorough examination and consultation will cost you nothing, and he will explain his methods of making
weak and diseased men Strongs Healthy and Vigorous. It may be that you have been unsuccessfully treated
by numerous practitioners. That is not evidence that you are incurable. It means that the treatment was
administered unskilfully. DR. WATSON offers you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as it has
made of others.
Home Cures by Mail.
DR. WATSON cures a great many patients every year
without seeing them. This system of treatment is a
special and scientifically managed Department. If
you cannot call, write at ence lor a diagnosis blank which covers every symptom. Your case can be
diagnosed as minutely and treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview. His great medical
work, “MALADIES OF JYI-AJNTKIIWD,”
is sent FREE to any address on receipt of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This large valuable work
contains 53 profusely-illustrated chapters on the functions of the human body, and properly-applied
Electricity as an adjunct to medicine.
p r Carter Watson, M. 8., R; I
Ohlef Physician and Surgeon
SYDNEY INSTITUTE Of MEDICINE AND ELECTRICITY, I
70 & 30 Hunter-at.. Sydney f
FREE ADVICE.
REMEDIES
(Including
Carriage), 1 *
HOURS—
-10 to 5 Dally.
Evenings, 7 to 9
Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday.
the last of six.
Price Oc3L.
Post Free
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years'
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Onbridga
v £ung TonJc
to be the WORLD'S CUBE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It canba obtained from
any Chemist or £ tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
ROTHErhamS
ENGLISH WATCHES.
0tu>
%
A "I
/
S
fesi
JoLD BY ALL
WHO-CANSHOW-
w Jewellers.
ILLUSTRATED CHAIOGOES
nr
sg
trwjtt* —- —"
SPOONER’S
i&l *
mm
SPOONERS
V
*
KTENT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED RI DS
.4M, H «• *>' >•»**«♦
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning: and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) fld. and It.
BLACK OIL
The Best Pressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepert.
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eto.


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC.
GUARANTEE. Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well-known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
MURRELLS & BECKER,
.
MANUFACTURERS SPORTING
and TRAVELLING GOODS.
SANDOW FOOTBALLS, the Most Reliable
in Australia, 14-/6 (each quarter
stretched); other sizes and qualities from 2/6.
SHIN GUARDS— White Drill, Straps and
Buckles, 1/6 ; Basil Leather, Straps and
Buckles, 2)9.
PUNCHING BALLS—22/6 to 35/-.
Punchball Bladders, Gloves, and Swivels
always in Stock.
TRUNKS, PORTMANTEAUS, and TRAVELLING
BAGS of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
■—— * ii iQ ——
The Travellers’ Depot,
360 Collins St., Melbourne
212 Edward St., Brisbane
Write for Catalogue B.
THE WATCH for COUNTRY RESIDENTS
if
m
EKSsi
We don’t believe any Watch comes so near
Perfection as the celebrated
H. B. LEVER WATCH.
It has Patent Non-Magnetic Movement, •will stand hard
riding, and is almost insensible to the variations of temperature.
PF| 0© 21S- POST FREE ANYWHERE.
In Nickel Silver or Gun Metai Cases.
EVERY WATCH EXAMINED AND TIMED
BY US AND GUARANTEED. Hl*
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., BRISBANE.
NESTLES MILK
THE WORLD’S STANDARD BEST QUALITY.
Nestles Milk Food
for children.
THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHER’S MILK.
■ ruraiorp
iiiil:
ii <i
ex
•'3III
:L
m
HOTEL
METBOPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and two minutes from
entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
tariff, 10s. 6d per day, or apartments may be
secured separately by the day from 3s. and upwards,
Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted on appl'ffa
ti<m to The Manages.
MAKES the SKIN
m SOFT «
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
-trf.’V?
V
&
pt
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
ROT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. sue Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Ckeltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grlmwado &Co , Melto ourn e.
Goulburn Eoglnf-hoiiiP, showing how galvanised Iron crumbled away alter two years’ service.
This Engine-house is now roofed with RUBEROID.
RUBEROID ROOFING IS LASTING.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH & CO, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
MELBOURNE, VIC.
A PEI. A IDE, SLA. -
. BROOKS, ROBINSON h CO., LTD.
- A. W. SANDFQRD_& CO.
FREMANTLE, W.A. - J. M. FERGUSON, LTD.
HOBART, TAB. - - - WILLIAM CROSBY & CO.
LAUNCESTON, TASL - THE TASMANIAN WOOLG ROWERS’ AGENCY CO., LTD.
The N. S. W. Railway
Commissioners select
RUBEROID
ROOFING.
The supreme test of the practical quality and
durability of a roofing material is on an engine-
house. Every durable quality it possesses is
tested, and sometimes simultaneously. The roofing
must be able to permanently resist
1. Acids, alkalies, smoke, gases and fumes.
2. Intense heat or varying temperatures.
3. Vibratory strains, expansion & contraction.
The N.5.W. Railway Commissioners have proved
that RUBEROID will resist all these conditions,
and a large number of railway buildings are
row being roofed with RUBEROID.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yoi. 26.—N0. 131&
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1905.
Phiob 6d.
EMPIRE DAY.
AUSTBALLAN FATHER OF FAMILY : "AN EMPIRE DAT, BY ALL MEANS; BUT LET THIS BE YOUR EMPIRE!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every 'week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director .
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin 'will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not, responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A in<r tunr.i in ItlacJe and While.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topi vl drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but, unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which, has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Capetown ; _
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Jc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-'
toivn; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
11. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. — Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1905.
EMPIRE DAY.
May 24 is to be. “Empire Day ”in Australia. To
mark this official feast-day of St. Jingo, the children
in the public schools will gather together to sing
hymns of blood and battle, in glory of a country
which is not their own ; and be thus taught, in-
directly, to neglect and despise the land which is
their heritage and trust. Identify patriotism
with “ the Empire ” in the mind of the Australian
child—the Empire of Jingo ideals—and patriotism
is at once dissociated from a love for Australia.
For there is nothing more certain than that the
British Imperialism of to-day—the Imperialism
of the Boer war, of the Chinese slave-trade, and
of the Japanese alliance —is utterly antagonistic
to white Australian ideals. The fact does not
lack recognition from Australian Imperialists. It
is, indeed, often the sole reason why they are Im-
perialists. Australian nationalism stands for de-
mocratic equality; for the fostering of home
industries ; for such extension of State Socialism
as will give to the people the control
of great national services and monopolies; for
making the hire worthy of the laborer ; for white-
race purity. Therefore, there are ranged against
Australian nationalism all the weak-minded snobs
who can see no other hope of standing out a little
from the ruck than by securing an Imperial bauble :
all the Freetrade importers to whom an Australian
industry represents an injury, and who look upon
this country as a satrapy of London, to be ex-
ploited for the extension of its markets; all the
foes to liberal industrial legislation, who see in
“the Empire” the best hope of the sweater; all
the cheap-labor advocates, who hope to see
this continent given over to the coolies and
their slave-drivers. From these, the Tories, the
snobs and the sweaters, are the ranks of the
Jingo-Imperialists recruited. With them are a
few sincere men, who honestly believe that the
world-interests of the Anglo-Saxon race are best
to be served by Australia limping after England
in apeish imitation, and trying to conform to a
type which is foreign to its natural conditions.
Their sincerity calls for some respect, even if their
folly earns contempt. But such folk are few.
The leading spirits of Imperialism in Australia
are Imperial because they are anti-Australian.
There is nothing hostile to England in Australian
Nationalism : it indeed holds out the hope of a
protector and an asylum when, as must happen in
the ordinary course of events, the balance of Euro-
pean power swings adverse to Britain. There is
< verything hostile to Australia in the British
Imperialism of to-day, with its ideals of war, con-
quest, pillage, and servile labor.
It is, perhaps, mainly the hope of securing' ser-
vile labor that makes the Fat man in Australia
nowadays so ardent an Imperialist. He sees the
result of Imperial success in S’Africa in the hordes
of Chinese slaves packed in the coolie-ships for the
Rand, and hopes for a like happy result here. As
he sings of the “dear old hag,” in his thoughts
it is waving over a slave-ship, and the “mother-
country ” is the country which can take the rule
of Australia out of the hands of Australian
citizens, and give him cheap Japanese coolies for
coal-mine, gold-mine, factory and field. Whilst
Australia is self-governing and independent, he
knows Australia will be white. Let Australia be
induced to give up her self-government and be-
come a partner in, and obedient to, a Council of
Empire, which is mostly nigger Empire, and he
hopes that cheap colored labor will flow to these
shores. Nor is the Tory capitalist without some
grounds for believing that devotion to the Empire
is likely to be a good thing for dividends. London
does something to encourage that view. Mark
this, from the London correspondent of a Scotch
paper, the Stonehaven News :
Another matter which will follow the cessation of
hostilities is the question of the colonisation of Australia.
It has, however, been remarked by a great authority that
it was with the purpose of finding room for her surplus
population that Japan made the now famous alliance
with Great Britain. Australia is on the verge of bank-
ruptcy, and the Labor Party show every sign of making
the condition of the country much worse than at present.
A poll-tax of £lOO per head is levied on the incoming
Oriental by the Commonwealth Government. Japan will
make strenuous efforts to secure free entry to the Aus-
tralian continent, and there can be little doubt that the
continent will be much improved thereby. With Japan
paramount in the Far Fast and having a big interest in
Australia, Britain and Japan would dominate the world.
That hint is sufficient to make Australian capi-
talism as ardently Imperialistic as was the Hebrew
capitalism of Johannesburg. For capitalism knows
no nation. Cash is its country and gold its god.
* * * *
The Australian democracy has of late come to
a fair understanding of this, and shows its judg-
ment of Imperialism by dooming the fall of almost
every politician who accepts an Imperial decora-
tion. But if Australian children, whilst their
minds are plastic to sentimental impressions and
little receptive of logical ideas, can be taught to
be little Imperialists, to bawl with their infant
trebles for blood and conquest and Asiatic alliances,
there is some hope for Jingo-Imperialism in the
future. A large proportion of voting citizens,
even in a specially intelligent community such as
Australia, never checks its early impressions by
its later-acquired reasoning powers. Teach the
children to be Imperialists and a certain propor-
tion of them will remain so, even when a power of
reasoning has been developed that would, if
exercised, show the inconsistency of their ideas
with Australian conditions and aspirations. There
is thus an evil subtlety in concentrating the effort
of Empire Day in corrupting the young. If the
twigs can be bent crooked many will grow up
crooked, and the future will see a party in Aus-
tralia ready to put the fate of this continent in a
pool to be a counter in some calculations of policy
between England and Japan.
* * * st
The Bulletin, therefore, in all seriousness,
urges those Australian parents who are Austra-
lians first—who are earnest in the belief that the
one sure duty of the people holding this lonely
outpost in the Asiatic seas is to keep it free, and
clean, and white—-to gather their children round
them on May 24, and tell them of their own land.
Tell them how, by the destiny of Providence, from
a bad and tainted beginning, a little free people
grew up here, washed by the clear seas, purified
by the breath of the gum forests. How, with the
knowledge abroad of great open fields here ; where
no man was landlord or master, and neither wood
nor wood game had been divinely set apart
for squire or parson, and hats were touched to
none except in genuine chivalry and respect; the
best of the men from England, Scotland, Ireland,
and many another European land came to Aus-
tralia, seeking freedom and scope for manly self-
respect. How with the gold discoveries the old
world again bled its veins of some of its best blood
to populate this continent with the most vigorous,
the most enterprising, those most scornful of mas-
ters and kings. How, as these people built and
ploughed and forged, growing free as their great
gum-trees, but careless of public responsibilities,
the lesser men among them set up Parliaments
and laws, and bowed in the house of Rimmon,
and made Australian politics a thing apart
from and lower than Australian life. How the
stain of servile politics is still on the land, but that
the Australian folk are coming gradually to know
of this, and have learned that it is not all to build
a home, but that a people must, too, build strong
the bulwarks of law and freedom around that home,
and put its mind somewhat to the business of
politics. How it is the duty of every Australian
child to grow up to love his own land, where life is
free and no man is born duke or lord, and any may
look to rule who has the power within him. How
of all things it is needful to keep the white blood
pure, else will Australia come down to the despised
ranks of the outcasts. How he should hold fast
to the thought that there is nothing of good that
his country is not able to do, and nothing of evil
that it should ever consent to do.
* * * *
So much surely the Australian parent may tell
his child without disloyalty to any Empire idea
that is worth an honest man’s thought. But so
much he cannot say without the deepest hostility
to the ideas of those who will assemble Australian
children in the schools on May 24th to celebrate
Jingo-Imperialism.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Strike of Judges.
N.S. Wales Supreme Court Judges are still on
strike; and the Attorney-General, who is sup-
posed to represent their employers, the State,
instead of taking steps to compel them to do the
work which they had agreed to do, cordially winks
at their conduct. For this is no ordinary strike.
The J udgeshad contracted to do certain work—viz.,
to administer the laws of the State. According
to the Government’s report, they have declined to
do part of the work—viz., administer the Arbi-
tration Act. And instead of simply calling upon
them to do their duty, the Government claps
its hands and says “ They won’t.” But it doesn’t
make any move to stop the pay of the Judges on
strike. What Justice Prynnge, for example,
would say if a miner were brought before him in
similar circumstances, one can pretty easily ima-
gine. Probably something like this
Prisoner at the bar, your conduct admits of no excuse
whatever. You agreed to do certain work—unpleasant
work it might turn out to be ; but all that was taken
into account when the conditions were fixed, and you
accepted those conditions. Now, when work which is
distasteful to you turns up, you refuse to do it. It is
no excuse that it is distasteful: if you were oniy expected
to do agreeable work the conditions of your employment
would have been made very different. You say
that it is not your work any more than it is
the work of your fellow-workmen. But you all
agreed to do it, and you are all equally liable for your re-
fusal to do it. And not only that, but with an effrontery
that would be difficult to parallel, you not only refuse to
do the disagreeable part of the work which you have con-
tracted to do—you have not only gone on strike after
binding yourself to perforin this service, but you present
yourself for your wages,as though there had been no de-
fault on your part. And I deeply regret to observe that
your employer’s agent had, and still has, so small a regard
for his principals’ interests that he paid you this money.
Then his Honor would pass sentence, and inci-
dentally express the opinion that the agent should
make good the money he had paid away. Practi-
cally this is the position with regard to the
Judges and the Arbitration Court. It is un-
thinkable that it can remain at that. If
Judges can go on strike against the administration
of one law, they can hang up any law ; and that
means that the government passes from Parliament
and the people to the Judiciary, which is appointed
not for its political opinions at all. Years ago, S.
Australia found itself in a somewhat similar diffi-
culty. Justice Boothby, newly im ported, thought
as little of “colonial” Acts as the N.S.W. Supreme
Court Bench evidently thinks of the Arbitration
law. Grand juries had long been abolished in the
province; Boothby disagreed with that course,
and went on strike against trying accused persons
who had not passed through the hands of a grand
jury. Prisoners were therefore kept waiting for
trial. But, happily for S. Australia, it had an
Attorney-General who fulfilled his obligations to
the people. The Judge was charged with obstruct-
ing the administration of j ustice; and under an Act
of George 111., the recalcitrant was “amoved.”
The precedent is worth remembering at this junc-
ture. And, even if there were no precedent, it is
an occasion that calls for the establishment of one.
♦
Again Arbitration.
According to the testimony of Lord Ranfurly,
ex-Governor of Maoriland, who will be accepted
even by the Tories as a witness of truth :
In Maoriland the Arbitration Act had been generally
successful. It had resulted in the practical abolition of
strikes, and even of serious industrial disagreements.
The M.L. Act is practically the same in principle
and detail as the N.S.W. Act. Except that the
N.S.W. Act allows railway servants to take
advantage of its courts, the two laws are almost
identical. Both allow a “common rule” and
“preference to unionists.” Why is it that in
M.L. the Act is an assured success, and in N.S.W.
its fate now trembles in the balance with Attor-
ney-General Wade keeping a strangle-hold on its
throat ? It is easy to answer the question by
a method of exhaustive analysis. Compare M.L.
conditions with those of N.S.W. until points of
difference arise, and among those points will
be found the reason. Is the Maorilander
naturally more law-abiding than the Waler, more
obedient as an employee, more reasonable as an
employer ? Does the climate make the differ-
ence? Is the M.L. Judge more trusted
than the Judge in N.S.W. ? All such attempts at
explanation are inherently absurd. The true
reason is undoubtedly to be found in the fact that
in N.S.W. the Act has from the first been the
subject of venomous press attack. The Tory
press in this State has lied the Act down to such
an extent that now an unsympathetic Govern-
ment holds it prostrate and prepares its strangu-
lation. The position recalls again the need that
exists for the democracy to protect itself against
the press. If The Bulletin says that
John Smith is a scoundrel it must be
prepared to prove the truth, and the public
advantage of publishing the truth, of its words or
pay damages. If The Bulletin were to say, as
another paper said the other day, that the
Arbitration Court is a dangerous institution,
which was stifling the progress of the State, which
was the official slave of the trades-unions and the
torture-chamber of employers, it should be
equally liable to punishment if unable to prove
its statements. Free, nay violent, discussion of
political principles—even if incorrect in statement
and argument—comes within legitimate press
liberty, but it is absurd to allow a newspaper to
recklessly and falsely defame Parliament, the
Supreme Court, the Arbitration Court, or any
other public institution without penalty. If the
Carruthers Government succeeds in strangling
the Arbitration Act, it will be because lying
newspapers have smoothed the way to the crime.
Our Export Trade in Lies.
When Australians realise fully their responsi-
bilities they will do something with the people
who send lying cablegrams to the London papers.
The Daily Mail printed a cable from Sydney at
the time of the trouble over the Orient Co.’s mail,
“that the Customs had arrested two Lascars on a
trumped-up charge about walking-sticks, to pre-
vent the P. and 0. mail steamer sailing.” That
was a lie in every detail. From one Australian
office the cables carry on a systematic and
persistent misrepresentation. The work of
this correspondent is lately to show that
Melbourne is against a “Made in Australia”
policy. A month ago two very good Melbourne
citizens stood for the vacancy M‘Eacharn left in
the Melbourne City Council. The contest was a
purely personal one, carried out in the friendliest
spirit, and no one in Melbourne had any notion
that any political question was being fought out.
Mr. Frank Davies beat Mr. Charles Atkins.
The cable faker at this end cabled to London that
Mr. Atkins, “aleaderof the ‘Made in Australia’
movement,” was beaten. The matter of the elec-
tion was not, politically, worth the cost of a wire
to Collingwood, much less to London, and the in-
ference meant to be drawn in London is plain; and
it is a lie. But the cable man deserves thanks for
the phrase, a “ Made in Australia” man. That is
the sort of man wanted ; and in future we might
do worse than put the mad e-in-Australia man'
always in front, even in municipal elections. ’ ‘
+ .
Closer Settlement.
The Myall Creek farms offered by the Govern-
ment not having moved off so freely as was ex-
pected, it is now understood that the N.S.W.
Government will hold its hand in the matter of
resumption of private estates, “as there is not so
much demand as was represented for closer settle-
ment.” The decision, if come to, will be an ex-
cellent one; but the reason for it, if it is '
the one alleged, will be absurd. There
is a pressing need for closer settlement,
and a keen demand for small farm areas.
But to buy private lands, necessarily at a
high price, cut them up, and offer the smaller areas
to the settlers, again necessarily at a high price, is
not the method which promises success. Nor is it
in any way a just method. The good land of the
State, that is to a large extent locked up now by
monopolists waiting to be bought out, can be
thrown open to the people by a much simpler,
more equitable, less expensive and more effective
method. The only just title to land is its use.
Tax the land until the monopolist lets go
his grip, and the small settler can enter
with his fertilising plough. That method
will call for no expensive purchase, will
bring no business to the land-shark waiting
in his unwholesome den to levy on the
man with the earth-hunger, will save scandal
as well as expense. And it will break no right,
human or divine, will enable sanctity to hover
over a great many more homes, and make the
marriage-tie possible to a great many more lads and
lasses. Closer settlement by purchase will always
be a peddling business, sometimes a corrupt busi-
ness. Closer settlement by adequate land taxation
is the sensible and just system.
Immaculate England!
There is some explanation for England’s unpopu-
larity abroad, which causes so much virtuous
surprise to the Englishman, in a speech from
Lord Lansdowne, in the House of Lords, last
week. Referring to the report of Dr. Roth on
the ill-treatment of Westralian natives, the British
Minister for Foreign Affairs
confessed, with indignation and humiliation, that such
things could happen under the British flag. A mortifying
feature was that the report was calculated in the future
to deprive our remonstrances to other Powers on the
treatment of aborigines under their protectorate of a
great deal of the force which those remonstrances had
hitherto commanded.
All the inferences from, and some of the direct
statements in, that speech show a deplorable
Pharisaism. It represents in its worst form the
traditional English attitude, “ I thank God I am
not as others are.” The facts as to the ill-treat-
ment of the Westralian blacks are horrible, and
constitute a grave reflection on the administration
of one Australian State; but they give no shadow
of justification for this hypocritical English atti-
tude—this sorrow that the honor of England,
immaculate England, is for the first time stained
by one of her children, to such an extent that in
future she cannot do the heavy hypocrite in
foreign councils. Let us examine the facts.
The worst of the crimes in Westralia were
committed when that State was a Crown
colony, and was therefore directly governed by
England. So soon as the State received respon-
sible government there began a betterment,
though the fact that the men and the ideas of the
Crown colony era still survived made that,
betterment slow. But genuine reform came when
at last the Westralian Government cleared the
old English gang out, and Parliament reflected,
the views not of Downing-st., but of Westralia.
And now the worst surviving horrors are due to -
the fact that England stood in the way when.
Australia wished to bar the Asiatic absolutely
from the Commonwealth, and insisted that her
friends, the Jap, the Malay and the Indian, should
have at least some chance of entry. Take away
the Asiatic element from Westralia, and the most.
repulsive of the horrors which Dr. Roth de-
scribed would vanish. England must take •
the bulk of the disgrace of Westralia; and
that will not be a novel stain on an
immaculate reputation. In the other States of
Australia, whilst the Crown Colony’’ system sur-
vived and England was the direct ruler, the
blacks were flogged, tortured, poisoned, hanged
and shot in wholesale fashion. So soon as re-
sponsible government came and Australian ideas
began to take shape, the era of humanity dawned.
The Australian treatment of the aborigines has
not been just or humane. Our record is a black
one, and many grave sins against the unfortunate
autochthons cry out for vengeance. But it has at ,
least been immeasurably whiter, cleaner, more
merciful, than that of Eugland. We had always
some elementary notions of mercy ; have now
some genuine desire to be just; in the era of Eng-
lish rule of Australia there was neither mercy nor.
justice for the blacks.
♦
Agricultural Science.
Victoria is doing more good things wrong-end
first. Realising that the farmer must have more
knowledge to compete with the world, it proposes
to educate him into scientific methods by estab-
lishing courses of Agricultural Science at Mel-
bourne University. The University may therefore
soon be expected to turn out its Bachelors of Agri-
cultural Science—young men with some practical
experience (the course provides for that) and tech-
nical knowledge enough to make them the finest of
farmers. But there is no move to ensure that
these men will have chances of using their know-
ledge. Here and there, a newspaper may
find room for one of these agricultural ex-
perts; one or two more may find Government
billets ; and the rest may sit still and speculate
on the glorious things they could do if thev
only had the land. But they can’t get that till
Parliament puts on a stiff land-tax, with, if
necessary, provision for the compulsory resumption
of estates. It might go further and give pre-
ferential conditions of lease to holders- of uni-
versity degrees and diplomas, and students of
agricultural colleges. No reason, in. fact, why the
best man at the examinations should, not be given
a grant or a lease of land in lieu.of a cash scholar-
ship. At present, a big of Agricultural
College men, unable to get Und s . drift into clerical
employment. Several are op the country press,
using their agricultural, Ipipwledge in reporting
shire and city council meetings, and describing
what Mr. Teatpui.ler’s girls wore at the annual
hospital hop.
- ♦
Maoriland Municipal Socialism.
“Galvo’s” observations
After living, for .twenty years, in Australia, a (fierce
years sojourn In Maoriland has impressed on me for-
cibly the wonderful difference in the public spirit of tfw
latter people. Perhaps it is that Maoriland was first fn
so-called “ Socialistic” legislation, and so has had time to
get over the senseless scares which the.capitalistic press
always rakes up whenever an innovation tending towards
progress is proposed. Monopolies in M.L., such as tram-
ways, gas, water supply, sewerage and railways, are now
viewed as essentially the property of the people themselves.
Certainly there are still many, public enterprises privately
owned, such as the Auckland Gas-works, .the Auckland
tramways, the Wellington Electric Light, etc., but
these are mostly survivals of past indiscreet legislation, and
are bitterly regretted. Absolutely the most public-spirited
town is Dunedin, where the Scotchmen live, and which they
promise to transform into a second Glasgow. There, not -
one private monopoly,opens its mouth. The pity owns the
gas works, and turns out very good gas ; the finest tram-
way system in Australasia bar, none, the abattoirs, the
water supply, the public reserves, and the sewerage system
(now under construction) ; and controls harbor manage-
ment. In addition a big water power scheme for the supply
of current for light and power is now in hand, and when
completed will enable Dunedin to supply its manu-
facturers with power at a price far lower than any other
place in Australasia. It should lead to the establishment
of great works. It wall particularly benefit the woollen
industry, which is just now having a rather rough time,
thanks to the competition of imported shoddy, upon which
a much higher tariff is required. Striking, too, is the
difference between the treatment of employees b_v public -■
bodies and private companies. Arbitration has tended to 1
level matters up, and compel juster treatment from the
latter, but it is still possible to skin an arbitration award
and give concessions in such a way as to practically rob
them of their value. By public bodies, however, the arbi-
tration awards are usually given a liberal interpretation
and the men profit thereby. In Dunedin, Corporation
employees get particularly fair treatment, and the tram-
way men work under perhaps the most liberal award ever
given. As it is impossible to employ a tramway man for
regular hours, owing to the exigencies of traffic, it was
decided that their work should-be divided into fortnightly


periods of 104 hours each. Any regular man is paid for
104 hours even if he only works 50, whilst, if he work 1-0
he gets time and a half for the 16 hours overtime. He
gets also two days holiday per quarter on full pay,*
day per fortnight without pay. In addition, the men
are provided with warm uniforms and overcoats at the
citizens’ expense, whilst the ends of cars are glassed m as
a protection against the weather. In spite of this leckless
regard for the men’s comfort and health, and the fact that
fares are absurdly low, the trams are able to show' a profit.
In the hands of a private co. this profit would un-
doubtedly be much larger, but. it would be at the expense
of the convenience of the public as a whole, and the wel-
fare of the employees in particular. When I lived in
Australia and read the shrieks of alarm which
proceeded from such papers as the Tbpegraph,
iand Sydney’s Morning Granny, I thought there
really must be some foundation for the statements
that public ownership of monopolies was mischievous and
retrogressive, since there could surely not be so much
smoke without some fire. But when I get these same
papers a week old, and read the same old articles in the
light of experience, and with the results of Socialistic
legislation before my eyes in every direction, it makes me
fairly weep for the ignorance and selfishness which must
have inspired them.
♦
Fish—and Bricks.
Melbourne Argus, the other day, became excited
over a matter of fish, common fish, barracouta at
that. It seems that the Victorian Co-operative
Fishermen’s Association had, during the past 11
months, destroyed 592 baskets of fish because they
did not realise the reserve of 3s. a basket fixed by
the Association. The Association is only a com-
paratively small concern, which competes with the
agents who sell on commission, and the fishermen
themselves have fixed the reserve price—i:t is at
absolutely the lowest figure that gives them any
return. They were acting in strict accordance with
the Argus axiom that a man has the right to do as
he likes with his own. But these persons were
common fishermen, and that made a difference.
After giving a full column to explain in detail
the iniquity of their acts, tl.e Argus argues:—
Surely it would be better, in the interests of ths
fishermen themselves, that fish should be supplied at ae
low a rate and as abundantly as possible, in order to
create a demand for it. Yet we ar,e told the demand fell
off. What could be the reason, except that it was too
dear for the mass of the people to buy ?,, , What would
be said if the farmers made a ring to keep the price of
potatoes up to £6 a ton [3s. a basket for fish gives a return
equal to about 10s. a ton for spuds, but that is a trifle the
Argus overlooked], and destroyed all they could not sell
at that rate ?
Now read that over again, and put “bricks” in
the place of “ fish ” :
What would be said if brickmakers combined to keep
up the price of bricks to £2 per thousand, and bought up
other brickworks in order to keep them idle, so as .to keep
up the price to that rate ?
Well, the Argus has so fair said nothingin fact,
it seems to enthusiastically approve of the pro-
ceeding. Again, the Argus :
Some of the old laws against combinations made in
restraint of trade were founded on a proper appreciation
of what public interest demands. Is the fish (brick)
supply to be regulated and restricted in the interests of a
few men working the fishing (brickmaking) grounds?
Surely not. . . . Experience teaches that it is hest in the
long run to give trade free play. If the demand for fish
(bricks) were enlarged by the lowering of prices to the
ordinary level the fishermen (brick-makers) might be the
first to benefit.
Truth to tell, the fish trouble is not with the
fishermen or their agents, the association. Three
shillings a basket gives the fisherman an average
weekly return of barely 305.; and there is, in the
case of barracouta, the cheapest fish, an average
of 12 good-sized fish in each basket —3d. apiece
wholesale. Yet not even on the hawkers’ barrows
on Prince’s Bridge can you buy one barracouta
for less than Gd. In the suburbs it will cost you
:9d. or Is., and out at Doncaster, Burwood or
Fern-tree Gully you will have to pay from Is. 3d.
to Is. 6d. for the ’couta that costs the distributor
:3d. That is where the robbery lies. That is
where “the supply is restricted in the interests of
a few.” It is again the old story of the woollen
manufacturer and the tailor, the hatmaker and
tthe hatter. The producer sells reasonably enough,
shut the consumer has to pay the distributor an
•extortionate price for carting the goods across the
road. That the retail price of fish is too high is
admitted, but what is chief!)’ needed to correct
that is not the acceptance by the fishermen of Is.
or 2s. a basket, which would make little difference
to the consumer, though it would kill the pro-
ducer. but a guaranteed regularity of both supply
and demand, with a comprehensive and properly
organised system of distribution. Nothing but a
co-operative distributing agency can do that. The
Argus’ idea of a remedy for dear fish is merely to
sweat the fishermen.
♦
Prison Reform.
Ip Mr. Bent or anybody else is in earnest about
prison reform, and if he himself is neither a
professor of the science of crank-penology, nor
the holder of a billet in the penal department, the
ways and means are plain and easy. Reform in
the way of finance, and reform in the way of
common justice, moreover, will go conveniently
together. Eight per cent, of the prisoners
who pass through the chief gaols are held
in default of fines. Folly and injustice, begin
together with those prisoners. It costs just as
much to hold and keep a man who does seven days
because he can’t raise 20s. as to hold and keep a
burglar who is as dangerous as a loose tiger. And
the one is permitted to earn just about as
much as the other. In Victoria it averages
£4 Bs. 2d. per annum, and the cost is £43 11s. 4d.
Now, if natural justice and common-sense
were furnished with waddies, and permitted
to knock crank-penology on the head, they
might from that good deed go on to such good
works as these. First of all, justice, tackling the
courts first, would enact that every man and every
woman fined (vagrants and utter impossibles
excepted) should have time to pay the fine. Seven
days or twenty shillings, with a month to pay as
a matter of course, and if neither fine nor party
turned up at the month’s end, six months certain.
A good deal of cross-eyed injustice might be
quashed in that way ; a few thousands annually
in gaol costs saved, a few hundreds in fines, now
lost, recovered. That done, the same twin
brethren might surely assert together that, if an
offence can be atoned by a fine, all we are
entitled to inflict on the person guilty of
that offence, is compulsion, if he cannot pay, to
work it out. This done, three-fourths of the gaol
accommodation might be transformed into old age
barracks. A barbed-wire fenced paddock would
hold all the prisoners engaged in working out
fines, and ten warders handle four hundred of
them easily enough. But then what a lot of gold-
starred red-braided warders would find themselves
without billets? Also, what should we do with
professors of the science of crank-penology ?
*
Land Monopoly in Maoriland.
The Maoriland reactionaries, who are bent on
undoing the best there is in the State s land-
policy, know the value of plausible phrases in
fooling the multitude. Though they demand the
freehold, they say they favor a “limited free-
diold” as a “safeguard against the aggregation of
large estates.” But the limitation of area offers
no security whatever against that evil. A small
farm would be a bloated estate in urban or
suburban property, in connection with both of
which the curse of landlordry is apparent enough.
And as to country land, consider. what is
taking place in M.L. The district of
Taranaki is pre-eminently a community of
small freehold farms, for most of the land there
was sold at auction years before the M'Kexzie
land policy came into operation. Yet there is no
part of Maoriland where the evils of land-
monopoly are more in evidence, and black and
bitter evils they are. Taranaki, in fact, is
rapidly becoming a district of landlords and
tenants, and soon but few dairy-farmers will own
the land they work, and it looks as though many
of them will even have to lease their cows. It is
already a common thing for the freehold pro-
prietor of, say, 200 acres, which is a large area for
a dairy farm, to rent it to a tenant for 20s. or 255.
per acre. That means that a tenant of a 200-
acre farm will have to find £2OO or £250
for his landlord before he has a shilling
for himself; and the most pitiable feature of the
whole business is that his children have to suffer.
In jnuch the same plight as the wretched tenant
farmers are those nominal freeholders who have
bought land at spurious prices with the aid of
money-lenders, numbers of whom infest Taranaki,
and wax rich by lending on usurious conditions.
Many men have bought land at £3O per acre on
the instalment system, and words are inadequate
to describe the wretched lot of |th© children of
such men. Not a few of th,e landlords are no.w
able to live comfortably on their rents in th,e
larger centres ; and in opposing land reform and
labor legislation, these men are as unrelenting and
merciless as the rnost purse-proud squatter. When
one sees the evils which now scourge Taranaki —
the usury, the child-slavery, the neglected educa-
tion, the arrogance and greed—it is possible to
picture what the country would come to if the
reactionaries had their way —those who are wire-
pulling in favor of •“ the limited freehold.”
+
Concerning Things that Wear Out.
A few weeks ago the South-Eastern and Chatham
Railway Co., which pushes itself out froiq the fogs
of London, sacked a number of its por.ters and told
others that in future they would get no wages, but
would be required ito make a lamentable living out
of travellers’ tips. This is in .consequence of the
march of the motor, and the cutting-out of the
railway. Railway men in England acknowledge
that they must write down the value of their plant,
which means in many cases also their .capital. And
Australia, which will ha y ? i*° f ac . e ,the S*W® •<?**
eunistances, has been living in the foolish
belief that nothing could affect the value of
•the plant, &c„ into which it has put its
loans.; wherefore it hasn’t seriously undertaken a
sinking fund, and hasn’t made its railways pay
anything for wear and tear; often, in fact, when
one engine built with borrowed money lias been
worn out, the State has bought another with bor-
rowed money, so that the one engine has to earn
interest for two. Now the time is probably
coming when even the one engine ought to be
superseded • but if it is superseded, the new con-
trivance, under present conditions, will have .to
struggle through carrying three loads of interest.
Every private concern knows that its plant will
wear out or become obsolete, and that the co. will
have either to get new plant or be forced out of
business by more up-to-date competitors ; where-
fore it wipes something off the capital cost every
year—in other words, it compels its business,to pay
something for wear and tear just as regularly as it
compels it to pay wages. Tal;e the case qf ,the
Silverton Tramway Co., the biggest private rail-
way concern in Australia. Run on business lines,
that co. last year not only paid £25,235 out of
revenue for renewals, but also wrote off £5OOO for
general depreciation. If that concern were run
by the State a large part of the £25,235 would
have been charged to capital account (that is, paid
out of loans instead of out of revenue), while the
other item, amounting ,to p.c. on the capital,
would not have appeared at all. If only 1£ per
cent, (half the Silverton Co.’s .charge) were pro-
vided, the N.S.W. railways would have to show
an extra £528, GOO a year, or taxation would have
to make up the amount; and that seems to
be the very least amount which should be set
aside as a sinking fund on the railway debt. The
Electric Light Department of the Melbourne
City Council, which is mostly run by business
men on business lines, started with a 2,1 per cent,
sinking fund ; but experience showed that that
was not enough, and now it provides 3 per
cent. The State cannot buy imperishable ma-
chinery any more than the City Council; and yet
it sets aside absolutely nothing, . To say that the
State cannot afford to have a sinking fund is to say
that the State cannot afford to be honest. It will
not allow that excuse in others; how can it
alloAV it in itself ? And, anyway, the matter
will have to be faced some time; and
the further we drift without facing it,
the bigger the trouble will be. . If we can’t pay
anything off the debt on one engine, it isn’t going
to "be easier to pay off the debt on three, when two
of them are on the scrap-heap. It will take the
remaining engine all its time to pay the interest;
and, to help "things along a bit, the management
(if it is that sort of management) will probably tell
the porters (as the English co. has done in similar
circumstances) that for the future they must live
on tips. To that issue, at any rate, the present
drift tends.
+
This is the comfort which one Indian Baboo paper
takes from the Jap victories as likely to curb the
insolence of Australia :
Australia is a new country, and has recently been
granted the power by England to rule itself, and to have
its own Parliament. ‘ All new lands are generally peopled
by the dregs of all societies, and Australia is not an
exception. . . . The first act of their newly-formed Parlia-
ment was to pass laws to keep the Asiatic nations out of
their country. Relying fully on the strength of England
to protect them from unpleasant complications with
other countries, they have most arrogantly declared
before the world that they shall not have anything to do
with the black, and even the mail steamers having Indian
lascar crew are not to be patronised by them. India is a
subject country, and will calmly submit to all sorts of
insults that may be heaped against her, hut this nation qf
mean and short-sighted people has not seen that there is
alreadv a nation in Asia which has the power to fully
retaliate the insults it has been put to. Japan is surely
strong’ enough already to teach this foolish, vain, and
infant nation the usual courtesies which should exist
between nations, and in time it is expected that China
will also be strong enough to bring Australia to reason.
-*
The Crow-eaters invented the stripper. That is
a matter beyond all doubt. Half a dozen Austra-
lians had a hand in developing the stripper har-
vester, all of whom seem to have been singularly
neglectful of patent rights. Eor Americans
pirated the whole lot, Yankee-doodlised them,
and now send back the stripper harvester made
in their shops, and land it invoiced at £26. Cus-
toms here put that £26 up to £3B, on which the
importers have to pay 12 \ per cent., which amounts
to £4 15s. And that, added on to the invoice
price of £26, makes £3O 15s. Australians say they
can’t make and sell a machine under £Bl or £B5.
And “ the imported machines are sold to the farmer
at about the same price.” Thus Mr. James Moobe,
manager of T. Robinson and Co., before the Tariff
Commission. There ought to be enough in that to
set even a farmer thinking. Every Freetrader
is preaching to him of the benefit he
derives from every step towards the goal of
Freetrade. Yet here, on the sworn evidence
of a manufacturer and distributor, is proof
that the farmer gets no advantage at all. The
stripper harvester can be stored, duty paid, in
any Australian port for £34 155., but, despite
that, the farmer pays eighty odd pounds for it
delivered at his shed.
4
Thk anti-Socialistic cranks are yelling in the
Argus and elsewhere that the increase of deposits
in Australian banks and the shrinkage of advances
is further proof that “ Socialistic legislation ” is
killing enterprise. One half the explanation is
that enterprise isn’t dead at all, but that people
are extending operations out of the profits of two
extra-good seasons (which is a mighty lot better
than extending them with borrowed money) ; the
other half of the explanation is that where, in
manufacture, enterprise is slack, it is because the
low-tariff enemies of Australia are allowing the
foreign factory to strangle the Australian industry
even before it is born. There is a fat lot of in-
ducement for a man to borrow money to put into,
say, a woollen mill when two-thirds of the present
mills can’t pay even 3 per cent, dividends because
the Reid party encourages the foreign miller to
flood the land with cheap shoddy.
*
Australian shipping suffers from some compli-
cations. Generally speaking, coastal freights are
yery high ; butter, it is alleged, can be shipped to
London for less than it cpsts to bring it from the
North Coast to Sydney. These high rates affect
many Australian industries—Queensland sugar-
growing, for instance. The yarn that the white
man can’t work in the North means that
they won’t pay white men’s wages; and one
reason ydiy white men’s wages look stiff is that
freight to the Australian markets takes out so
big a bite. And while Australia is being
prejudiced by high coastal profits, it is
also, in one way, prejudiced by very low ocean
freights. Thus it has been drained of practically
the whole of the once highly profitable tin-
smelting business ; a large proportion of our lead
goes away in crude concentrates ; it doesn’t even
matter much whether we wash the dirt out of our
wool or not. The ocean liner is subsidised, and
it carries these things for very little ; the coastal
liner isn’t subsidised. Thus the policy that would
promote Australian development is completely
up-ended. Melbourne is encouraged to get its
coffee frqm the other end of the earth rather than
from Queensland. Queensland is helped ,to get
its cheese from Canada instead of from the
N.S. W. South Coast. There is something besides
the subsidies at work, top. The ocean liner
expects (anyway, it only mak;es) 2 or 3 per cent.,
the coastal line is made to pay 8 or 10 per cent.
In other words, when we want to tracle with
Germany, or Brummagem, or other foreign parts,
we can do it on a 2 per cent, basis so far as the
middleman shipper is concerned ; when we want
,to ; trac}e with sorqe other part of the Common-
wealth, jt must l}e on alO per cent, basis. Seeing
.that itje Coppm on wealth is a large place, whose
'rigKt apd varied development depends upon
,o}ieap interchange of products, this business of
'coastal stopping will have to get a lot of attention.
For one .thing the Commonwealth will have to see
(whether high sugar freights, for instance, don’t
Stand in a White Australia’s way—and that’s only
one branch of a large subject.
A Sane Imperialist*
The first impression frpm Richard Jebb’s “Studies
in Colonial Nationalism ” is that, if he represents
Imperialism, there is .little hope for the anti-
imperialists—for those of us who, groping among
the lessons of history, can see nothing but disaster
in a policy pf expansion, conquest and “ Empire; ”
who, plodding carefully from fact to fact of present
conditions, reject as unsound the theory that one
centralised government can rule better than a
series of independent governments over a group
of democratic peoples spread oyer a vast area,
haying and jealously preserving well-marked
divergencies of character; who, cherishing
fondly our Australian characteristics, would
set up an obstacle of sentiment—were all
reasons confounded—against surrendering one
atom of our self-governing power. For Mr.
Jebb is an Imperialist with a difference. He is
utterly antipathetic to the Imperialist of Austra-
lian experience, the ignorant mouther of sophis-
tries and slanders, the pleader of a mean cause of
national abasement. He has a power of seeing
facts, of valuing them at their true worth, and of
making from them logical deductions. He has
imagination, and can understand that other people
have imagination, and that, in a national
cause, the sentimental has often ‘as much weight
as the practical. He sees clearly, argues cor-
rectly, and has the historical faculty of
getting to the motives behind the facts, even
when the motive is not the practical one of £ s. d.,
but the more elusive one of sentiment or idealism.
It is not too much to say that at first sight, before
Mr. Jebb’s case for Imperialism, it appears that
the anti-imperialist must give up his cause. That
impression, however, fades so soon as the question
occurs, “ Is Mr. Jebb an Imperialist at all in the
general acceptation of the term here ? ” —and is
answered with a firm “No.”
Mr. Jebb is Imperialist in this sense—that he
has a passionate faith in the future of the Anglo-
Saxon race. He is firmly convinced that the
greatest good is bound up with the existence of
the closest possible sympathy between the branches
of that race in Britain, Australia, Canada, and
South Africa. So far most Australians can follow
him. Nor do they find reason for taking a differ-
ent road as Mr. Jebb amplifies his principles with
details. In the very beginning the author shows
clearness and candor.
The assumption which underlies such phrases as “ the
expansion of England” or “Greater Britain,” and sug-
gests the familiar principle of Federation as the logical
form of closer union, is not justified by the tendency
either of instinctive sentiment or of actual developments
in Canada and Australia. So far as generalisation is
possible, it may be said that there is not, in fact, any
growing consciousness of a common nationality, but
exactly the reverse. In other words, the basis of Imperial
Federation instead of expanding and solidifying is melting
away.
That is a good beginning. Fair and free again is
the statement —
It is possible to respect the prejudice against “ Im-
perialism ” when the anti-imperialists put forward a self-
respecting national policy upon the basis of separation.
As a still more unmistakable confession of this
Imperialist’s faith —
Premising that the national self-assertion now charac-
teristic of Canada and Australia is neither accidental
nor temporary, but signifies the inevitable mastery of a
racial and geographical over a political situation, it is
safe to forecast the future development of a similar
tendency also in Maoriland and South Africa.
As affecting the problem of Imperial union, the
nationalist movement, led by Canada and Australia, is
defining rapidly the limitations which any such union
must respect. The popular habit of alluding to “ the
British nation ” in a sense inclusive of colonial peoples
already is an anachronism. It has became evident that
the fundamental principle of any real advance must be
the frank recognition of independent national instincts in
the four principal self-governing colonies, in varying
stages of evolution. But that recognition involves the
rejection of the Imperialist conception which hitherto has
been current in the mother country. In general it is
clear that the union, if any, must resemble an alliance of
independent nations rather than a federation of scattered
States inspired by the idea'of a common nationality.
The objects and organisation of the alliance must be such
as to satisfy nations jealous of their independence.
This clear sight and sound judgment follow the
author in almost every conclusion. He sees the
inherent selfishness and unrcliableness of the
foreign policy of the United States, and with a
courage rare among English publicists is willing
to announce it. He condemns the forces which
were used against the Commonwealth to preserve
some right of appeal to the Privy Council front
the High Court; and estimates at exactly its true
value the support which Australian daily papers
and Australian Judges gave to that movement:
The newspapers in question included several which had
treated Federation from the Commercial rather than the
National point of view: and generally had been con-
ventional in dealing with Imperial topics . .. It was
evident to those more in touch with the national move-
ment that the editors were expressing views out of
harmony with the popular and deep-seated convictions.
...Mr. Chamberlain learnt further that the Chief
Justices of the Colonies were ranged on his side. In
Australia that fact was estimated, humanly, in connection
with the prospect of handsome positions in the capital of
the Empire. , ,
On the question of naval defence, Mr. Jebb s
attitude is that of The Bulletin. Incidentally
he writes a mournful epitaph on the political
career of Mr. Edmund Barton, who, at the
Colonial Conference, committed himself to sup-
porting the present Naval Tribute :
Landing once more on Australian shores, Sir Edmund
Barton exerted all his ample gifts of eloquence on behalf
of the naval agreement, to which he had pledged his
honor and sacrificed his past.
Mr. Jebb has really an uncanny gift of clear-sight.
How admirably he appraises Mr. Reid ! In regard
to the naval tribute :
On the present occasion the leader of the Federal Oppo-
sition W’as faithful to the tradition which has earned for
him the popular title of “ Yes-No,” for he announced his
intention of supporting the Bill while adducing the most
urgent reasons for rejecting it.
Again, on the preferential trade question :
Of the men who have hitherto been at the helm of the
Commonwealth only Mr. Reid, the Freetrader and former
anti-nationalist, has spoken with an uncertain voice. At
the present time it is common to hear him quoted by
English controversialists upon both sides of the question.
In Australia, however, such confusion is not likely to
occasion surprise, since, it is often said, there never yet
was an important Australian i,ssue upon which that poli-
tician committed himself irretrievably to one side or the
other.
Mr. Jebb would have none of India, as an equal
partner in any Imperial union. Its inclusion, he
argues, would “reduce any scheme to an ab-
surdity.” His Empire would be a white Empire.
And he foresees that if there were “Imperial
Federation ” (which he does not support) the day
would come soon when England’s place in the
council of that Federation would be “superior
only to New Zealand’s.”
Enough has been quoted to show alike Mr.
Jebb’s power of clear judgment and his idea of
Empire. He would have Australia, Canada,
S’Afriea develop their national entities, accepting
the responsibilities of their own defence, linked to
their mother land by the ties of race and affection,
and by trade relations which should be now
fostered by a Preference scheme. (On this point of
Preferential Trade, Mr. Jebb’s work will be dis-
cussed again.)
It is impossible, even in this paper, to ignore
the author’s judgment of The Bulletin. Through-
out his work Mr. Jebb constantly refers, sometimes
with praise, sometimes with severe blame, to its
views. One whole chapter is devoted to a dis-
cussion of-what he styles “The National Aus-
tralian Paper,” and he quotes several of its articles
in full. His apology for this is interesting :
It is absurd to affect indifference nowadays towards a
journal which has become nothing less than an imperial
institution. For it has attained a circulation which is
Australasian and more. To the remotest limits of settle-
ment in every Australian State ragged back numbers of
The Bulletin form the literature of the shearers’ hut and
the miners’ camp. The pink cover is no less familiar in
New Zealand, and catches the traveller’s eye upon the
bookstalls of Manila and Hongkong, Singapore and
Colombo. Even further afield, it seems to find a demand
which testifies to its unique position amongst colonial
journals. . . . Whatever the explanation, students of the
Empire cannot afford to ignore a unique journalistic
influence which has expanded over the two Southern
Continents and along the margin of the Pacific.
Undoubtedly the extraordinary popularity of The
Bulletin may be attributed largely to the variety of its
contents. . . . The cartoons and illustrations hold their
own with the similar productions of any other country
for cleverness. . . . The “ Society ” page and “ A Woman’s
Letter ” describe the doings of Government House and
neighborhood with a vulgar familiarity, pandering to all the
snobbish instincts which simultaneously are denounced ih
the editorial columns as an evil result of British connection.
... A considerable space is devoted to the encouragement
of Australian literature... But, after, all, it is the poli-
tical activity of the Australian national newspaper that
gives it its unique individuality, and must account for
the greater part of its popularity... It seems para-
doxical, if not suggestive of insult added to injury, to
saddle The Bulletin itself with the credit, or the respon-
sibility, for the enthusiasm displayed by Australia in the
S’African war. And yet the truest generalisation about
that enthusiasm is to explain it as the expression of the
very national sentiment which The Bulletin had set
itself to create. .. The Bulletin does reveal the genuine
consciousness of national self-respect.
These extracts, picked at random from various
parts of the work, give some idea of the trend of
a lengthy chapter, which (unusual as it may
seem to devote so much space in an historical
treatise to a newspaper) is yet not the least useful
in giving an insight into the author’s conclusions.
To a “ Policy for the Commonwealth,” by Mr.
James Edmond, Mr. Jebb also gives notice as
“foreshadowing the actual lines followed by the
Federation.” In this respect as in others through-
out the work, the author shows an unhesitating
readiness to accept facts. The Bulletin gener-
ally displeases, sometimes enrages, him. But ho
has the historian’s gift of accepting facts and
giving them their value, however much they run
counter to his own views.
To follow Mr. Jebb’s “ Imperialism,” Australia
would need to cultivate with 3’et more pride its
national characteristics and independence; treat
with yet more scorn its K.C.M.Gr-eese class, which
is servile to foreign ideals and regardless of Aus-
tralian aspirations; it would need to declare un-
hesitatingly for its own navy, its own military
system, and its own unappealable High Court.
Synchronising with national development, Mr.
Jebb would have us, by the cultivation of closer
trade relations and by giving full value to the
blood tie, come closer in affection to the Empire.
It is a sane Imperialism.
♦“Studies in Colonial Nationalism,” by Rickard Jebb.
London : Edward Arnold.


SPECIAL NOTICE.
GALLAHER’S
World-renowned TOBACCOS
are now being placed upon the
AUSTRALIAN MARKET.
The name GALLA HER is' sufficient guarantee of their
EXCELLENCE.
SUPPORT INDEPENDENT FIRM.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “The Cingalee.”
Thkatre Royal [ " ;£j le Eternal City."
( The Silver King.”
Criterion “The Rose of the Riviera.”
Palace “ The Female Swindler.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Bklmore Park Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Sunday.”
Her Majesty’s “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
Theatre Royal “One of the Best.”
Opera House Rickards’ Variety Go.
On a second look-in at “The Cingalee,”
that subject of much contention and many lawyers’
fees seems just about what it did at first—scarcely
reaching a very high level anywhere, yet never in
any respect falling below the middle-line. The
most captivating things happen in the last half-
hour j then the Chedder Bhoy’s harem, which was
a gorgeous enough harem before, sparkles with a
sudden illumination, and a picturesque ballet
keeps it company. But, for that matter, the ballets
are all good ; and Miss Ivy Scott, the leader of the
tea-girl romps, who mostly constitute the ballet,
sings a song that was good enough to mention last
week—the “ Tea in the Morning, Tea in the
Evening” song that almost sings itself. Also, you
can relish better, at a second taste, the philosophy
of the babooo who has been successful in failing at
an English University examination, and who, as a
result of his travels, makes numerous pungent
observations upon English manners. Both Miss
Margaret Thomas and Haigh Jackson, who have
the pick of the lyrics, continue in excellent voice,
and score heavily.
*# * *
These moonlit nights Little Tich is a
humorous lamplighter ; and the “ turn ” is one of
his best. _ Most other star comedians of the’alls
twinkle in but a single song or two ; Tich seems to
have dozens, and all of them packed with carefully
polished “business.” He leaves the Tivoli and
Sydney on May 20 ; Melbourne will then have 10
more nights of the merry little fellow. After
that, the gloom of London, which needs him more.
Alice Guerra, from the French Tivs., is another
sparkling item these times. She uses her voice,
which is a pity; but her Spanish dances are
among the most seductive things seen lately. Miss
Pierce, Max Milian, and Nat Travers are other
features of a particularly strong bill.
#* * *
Some are born criminals, others achieve
criminality, but Miss Eugenie Duggan has of late
had iniquity thrust upon her. In his desire to let
Sydney know how some people other than Govern-
ment House folk and corner-grocers live, Mr.
William Anderson, on Saturday night, produced
at the Palace “The Female Swindler” with his
leading lady as the star criminal. The lady
steals diamonds with industry and perseverance,
looking the while as innocent as the flowers
that bloom in the spring, and always giving
the impression that like them she has nothing
to do with the case. A detective, pallid as
Cuyler Hastings, is loved by the fair burglar, and,
while he is working to secure her wrists for the
handcuffs, she is trying to noose his heart. In the
last act both he and she succeed in their mutual
designs, and all is no doubt love and harmony and
sitting on one (stolen) chair. But meantime,
before the playing of the Wedding March, so
to speak, this cement-complexioned detective
does many crazy and blood-curdling things,
such as breaking into a house through the
skylight. Skeleton keys and cold chisels are
prosaic and used by detectives of no dramatic
instinct. He goes unarmed into the presence of
rogues, who carry a small-arms factory about their
Kersons. He tackles the Bill Sykes breed bare-
anded, and always he is fearless and uncon-
querable as an earthquake. Anyone who likes
improbabilities and really strenuous thieving, and
beautiful scenery, will find all three in the new
gay. Mr. Willard, as the detective, and Mr.
unbar, as the male accomplice of th# female
rogue, do their work very neatly.
#* * #
Mr. Julius Knight’s illness has developed
into typhoid fever, and this Theatre Royal season
will probably not see him again. His absence
was unfortunate for the revival of “ The Eternal
City ’’—emphatically the weakest piece of the co.’s
repertory—for his acting was always magnetic to
at least the feminine half of an audience, even in
such a rdle as that of David Rossi. It would not
be fair to judge Mr. Harry Plimmer’s capa-
city as an actor by his rendition of so poor
and so utterly unnatural a part, but it may
be said for him that, though lacking the
romantic air of Mr. Knight, he does very well-
indeed. “The Eternal City” is just a crude,
improbable melodrama, which struggles over a
great space like a crowd of annoyed ants. Instead
of a comic pieman as “relief” to its succession of
dismal improbabilities it has a Pope. This Pope’s
standard of intellectual merit is pretty low, for
when the police spy suggests that he should
denounce his son as a murderer in order to do him
a good turn, instead of throwing a pie at the
villain, to the loud applause of the gallery, he
approves the notion. Splendid setting and a
strong cast, headed by Misss Jeffries, and sub-
stantially the same as that which presented the
piece first in Sydney, give some attractions to
“The Eternal City.” But it is good news that,,
by Saturday, it will be replaced with “ The Silver
King ” —the best of all melodramas.
Some very Superior Person has said ‘ The
comic is that which is out of time and place with-
out danger.” According to this standard, “ The
Rose of the Riviera,” revived at the Criterion on
Saturday night, is very comic. In fact, it is
immensely amusing even without any authority
backing it as such. The tradesman Brisket mas-
querading as a duke, the variety dancer per-
sonating a duchess, are as out of place as
mules in a boudoir, but they are consider-
ably more humorous than the real personages m
palaces. Miss May Beatty, as the Rose lapsed
into trousers, cuts a pretty figure ; and when she
sings the “Egypt” song, with spectacular back-
ground, the audience tells itself that it is glad it
came. To keep track of the story is like pursuing
a rabbit through a forest of saplings. But the
rush and whirl of skirts and dancers, and the lift-
ing of voices in song are all right. Mr. Edward
Lauri and Miss Roland Watts Phillips _ are
amongst the most valuable of the farcical mirth-
makers.
# *
The fact that there are only three nights
more on which to gaze upon Aerie standing
upright on a flying trapeze ought to cause a mild
rush to Fitzgeralds’ circus. In a very little while
the place where the Weatherleys extract melody
from a hatpin and buttonhole will be left to the
vagaries of the push that usually holds up the
desolate railway station while it chews its cigar-
ette. It is a pleasing show ; and when its lights
have been extinguished Sydney will miss its white
horses and pink women.
* * * *
Mr. Watkin Mills’ English concert party
opens in Sydney early in June. At present it is
making music in W.A. The two ladies, Miss
Edith Kirkwood, soprano of the Royal Italian
Opera Co., London, and Miss Gertrude Lonsdale,
contralto, are said by fellow-passengers arriving
here ahead of them, to have voices that we shall
be very glad to hear. Mr. Harold Wilde, a tenor,
of whom it is written, “ he is a London favorite,”
aids the co. Mr. Mills needs no introduction, nor
does his master of the ivories, M. Edouard Parlo-
vitz. First half of the Mills’ concert programmes
will consist of the regular concert numbers, and
the second will take the form of song cycles—
“ The Persian Garden,” for instance, with its
musings on wine, love, and death.
* * * *
College girls and suburban ladies who
don’t go out at night will presently become
indebted to Mr. George Boyle, the pianist, for
a series of matinees at the Y.M.C.A. hall,
lasting for about an hour and ten minutes. Vocal
music and the music of the violin and piano will
be included.
* * * *
Theatrical managers, at least some of
them, continue to argue that the abolition of the
queue means a return to chaos. Now, it has
never been necessary in Sydney to form a queue
at the doors of the dress circle or reserved stalls.
Not that these places are never crowded, but
simply because seats may be engaged there in
advance, and because there are not two prices of
admission to them. Even when a play is drawing
big houses, only a few gather round the doors to
the cheaper seats prior to seven o’clock, and even
up to 7.15 there are not enough gathered to
obstruct the thoroughfare. It is surely obvious
that if all the doors were thrown open at seven
there never would be any crowds, and therefore
no need for the queue. Indeed, the Sydney
Criterion has proved this by abolishing all early
door fees, and by throwing open all its doors at
seven.
* * * *
With the conclusion of the present season
at Sydney Criterion, a musical comedy co., under
the pilotage of Mr. JohnF. Sheridan, will take the
boards. The co. has some fine pieces, opening with
“ King Dodo” and going from that to “The Earl
and the Girl ” ; and it will be strengthened for
the Sydney season by the inclusion of Miss Maud
Amber and Mr. Wilfred Blake—well known to the
public here.
* * * *
A brief revival of “Sunday” repeats, at,the
Princess’s, the success which Miss Tittell Brune
scored at Her Majesty’s nine months ago, when
the cleverness of her free and hearty acting came
as a surprise. Probably the Wild Western gal
who bursts into notice with a swear-word on her
lips is a little more convincing these nights than
she was last year, but she was always an admir-
able Sunday in her various moods and manners.
Seeing her again in her first Australian part, one
is again impressed, by the fact that Miss Brune
has to work hard for her effects. A born actress of
the restless sort rather than an artist in repose,
neither her personality nor her somewhat sombre
voice is a first-class asset, yet she makes herself
always interesting and forcible in a part where
many another actress of greater experience could
be more picturesque and—less real. There are
changes from the previous cast of “ Sunday.”
Greenaway is the low-spirited young man who
murders Gaston Mervale in the first act and hides
the corpse in a lonely spot, for the good of all
parties concerned. Cuyler Hastings was great
in the murder episode when he played this
character. Greenaway hasn’t the impressive
voice and deadly stillness of the other man,
but he is a satisfactory manslaughterer, also
he has a younger bearing, and the contrast
between Jacky and his hairy older mates is better
marked than in the previous production. Jeffrey
Williams is a new Towser, and Maurice Dudley’s
imitation of Edmund Gwenn in the senile
character of Lively is more than a good imitation.
In its quieter way it is even an improvement on
the original.
** * *
The question as to who was Dan Maguire
when the light went out will be finally disposed of
at Her Majesty’s on Friday night. “The Way
to Kenmare,” although a sufficiently popular Irish
drama for Andrew Mack to talk, and sing, and
move and have his being in, is not calculated to
crowd a moighty large theatre for longer than
twelve nights and two matinees, perhaps. Any-
how, Friday will be the last occasion when
Maguire aforesaid will discover the proofs of
his haughty lineage by the light of a thunder-
storm. Touching Dan Maguire’s relation-
ship to the reigning Earl of Kenmare,
it is only fair to say that he doesn’t
wish to be a future earl for his own sake, but for
the sake of his late mother. Aspersions have been
cast on the memory of his mother, and Dan under-
takes to prove her respectability, even though the
effort earns him a title and estates. Otherwise he
would have scorned his birthright and continued
to wear a leather belt and a democratic billycock
hat. On Saturday a revival of Boucicault’s
“ Arrah-Na-Pogue ” will present Andrew Mack
and co. as Irishmen who are mostly agin the Gov-
ernment. A good many years have passed over
Erin’s head since Melbourne got a handsome, full-
flavored production of “ Arrah.”
** * *
Bland. Holt, still harping on military
matters, intends to revive “One of the Best” on
Saturday. This is the well-knit drama that
reflects a lot of unjust suspicion upon Walter
Baker in the second act, but restores him to
public confidence at the finish. Baker’s regiment
plays the name part with much pomp and
circumstance, and vigorous exeroise of wind
instruments.
*# * *
At the Opera House the Magic Kettle is
spouting vapor for the last times. The Kettle is
an unsatisfactory utensil which occasionally goes
on strike, owing to its lack of “liquid air”
materials, or because it has exploded the operator
or something. At time of writing the Kettle was
expected to be on the boil for the remainder of its
fleeting season. The musical dancing Figaros,
likewise Taft, Leo Dryden, Winton and others
will support the Kettle to its bitter end, and on
Saturday they will support a less laboratorious
attraction. At the Bijou a low-priced edition of
“ A Message from Mars ” is about to be issued by
Walter Sandford.
» * * Jit
The Players, who have previously shown
their paces at the Bijou, are billed for four per-
formances at the Athenaeum Hall. On Friday
and Saturday of this week those intrepid amateurs
will play “The Physician,” and on the corres-
ponding nights of next week they are to appear in
“ School.” The schoolmaster is Gregan M‘Mahon,
as before.
** * *
Adelaide Royal, promised by Manager
Pollock the best of everything in Australia during
the coming winter, is taking a heavy dose of melo-
drama meanwhile. The Anderson Co. has gone
out and the Billie Howarde Co. has come in, but
the hero and heroine still struggle with unmerited
misfortune, and the casual corpse still falls to the
boards with a dull thud at uncertain intervals. A
big chance was lost by not having some lighter
show in Adelaide for Oakbank and Cup time.
The Wild Cat Column.
Though the proposed iron bonus would do
something for Australia, more is wanted. Australia
produces pig-lead now ; but still it imports nearly every
leaden article it uses—it imports even much of its sheets
and pipes. It is almost certain the same thing will
happen with iron and steel. Without substantial Cus-
toms duties on iron machinery, ironware, galvanised
iron, etc., Australia will simply export its steel billets—
and, after all, it won’t be worth much to Australia to
merely make and export billets, which are only one
remove or so from the raw product, and let the foreigner
turn them into foreign goods for us. Dodge and wriggle
as we may, Protective duties are unavoidable. We can’t
firmly secure the trade any other way.
* * * *
Two thousand Victorian State tenants are
£120,000 in arrears ; and though a good many of them
come in and pay up the moment it is plain the landlord
means business, a big and pitiful percentage simply can’t
doit. Forty-seven Birchip farmers who faced the music
declared that most of the selectors are heavily in debt.
They paid 10 per cent, on p.n.’s, and 7 to 10 per cent, on
mortgages, and didn’t go to the Credit Foncier either
because the institution wouldn’t have them, or because
their private Cohens forbade that course, or by reason of
the impossibility of getting through the Credit Foncier’s
red-tape entanglements. Consequently those who hold
on are working in hobbles, and those who have
succumbed to 10 per cent, compound interest are
humping bluey. The look-out is bad, although a fair
sprinkling of real rogue-farmers are rounded up. It
might make things a bit better if the name of the Credit
Foncier were abruptly changed. Plenty of selectors
don’t know what a Credit Foncier is; but they would
have some idea of what an Agricultural Bank, or a
Farmers’ Bank, is when they heard of it. As things are,
the most helpless of them drift into the jaws of the
private shark. But even a State Land Bank wouldn’t
save selectors in the far-out wilderness ; nothing, in fact,
can take the place of regular rainfall and handy markets ;
and it will take a land tax, not a land bank, to give them
those two things.
• • • •
The Westralian Bank (Perth, Westralia)
Profits, less Carried
Sums to Re- Re-
Written off. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1900.. £11,779 17J p.c= £8,750 £3,029 £217,307
Sept., 1900.. 12,811 174 „ „ 8,750 4,061 221,368
Mar., 1901.. 11,787 174,,,, 8,750 3,037 224,405
Sept., 1901.. 17,476 174 „ „ 8,750 8,726 233,131
Mar., 1902.. 17,416 17} „ „ 8,750 8,666 241,797
Sept., 1902.. 15,489 174 „ „ 8,750 6,739 248,536
Mar., 1903.. 18,780 174 „ „ 8,750 10,030 258,566
Sept., 1903.. 20,974 174 „ „ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premium on 2500 new shares 31,250 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 174 „ „ 10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17} „ ~10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 174 „„ 10,938 10,295 337,583
Profits are not up to last year’s level; and there isn’t
anything in the ag-gregate figures to explain it. Probably
as Westralia is more or less settling down, rates for
advances, etc., are also settling down. Even now, how-
ever, profits are high—as, no doubt, they ought to be,
considering the risks of a business on a mostly mining
basis. On total shareholders’ funds (reserves £327,288,
and capital £125,000) profits have recently been :
Sept., 1901.. £lO 15 6 p.c. Sept., 1903.. £ll 14 0 p.c.
Mar., 1902.. 10 9 1 „ Mar., 1904.. 11 0 5 „
Sept., 1902.. 9 1 3,, Sept., 1904.. 11 6 9 ~
Mar., 1903.. 10 15 6 „ Mar., 1905.. 9 7 9 „
On capital alone profits were at the rate of £33 19s. per
cent, per annum, while the div. is 174 per cent., thus
allowing very nearly 50 per cent, of the profits to go to
reserves. The Westralian Bank is wiser than the Wes-
tralian Government. The bank is making hay and putting
some of it by, while the sun shines ; but the Government,
instead of putting by a reserve, is putting up a deficit.
Both of them have a great opportunity ; and one of them
is wasting it, while the other is using it so well that it is
paying 174 per cent - div. and putting itself in a position
to continue on a primrose path. A further comparison of
recent movements of the bank ;
Mar., 1904. Mar., 1905. Increase.
Notes in circulation .. £101,203 £111,155 £9,952
Bills in circulation, &o. 124,805 140,553 15 748
Deposits at interest .. 496,948 512,766 15’,818
Deposits, current ac. .. 1,086,237 1,192,403 106,’166
Advances .. . 1,137,048 1,395,747 258,699
Public securities .. 100,200 100,200
Decrease.
All liquid assets .. 1,061,463 974,350 87,113
A striking- feature is the amount of deposits not carrying
interest. Against this money a large reserve has to be
maintained ; .yet counting in public securities, remit-
tances in transit, and all other more or less liquid assets,
they total less than the deposits not bearing interest; in
other words, in addition to using for advances the whole
of the fixed deposits, and the capital, and reserves, the
bank uses also a considerable amount of money for which
it doesn’t have to pay anything. It’s a lucky bank while
things last like that.
• • « *
Vic. Parliament for next session is promised a
bill prohibiting solicitors from acting also as trustees.
Which somehow recalls the comment of a bookmaker on
Justice Pring’s anti-sporting and gambling remarks when
he sentenced Slattery—" The turf be hanged ! It wasn’t
the turf —it was his lurid legal training that did it! ”
* * * *
The Queensland banks decline to fall in with
the others and reduce their deposit rates. There isn’t the
utmost cordiality between one or so of the northern
banks and the southern concerns. The former, restricted
to Queensland, with its scattered population and high
expenses, have desired more than once to arrange some-
thing in the nature of a minimum lending rate for remote
parts ; but the southern banks haven’t rushed the pro-
posal. Hence the absence of any warm affection. And,
anyway, money isn’t even now at all plentiful in Queens-
land, which suffers very severely from the absentee
trouble. Even when a man “ makes a punch ”at mining,
he shifts on to Sydney and draws his divs. from there.
The marvellous thing, in these circumstances, is that any
big Queensland section should want to intensify the
trouble with the help of nigger or yellow labor—for, of
course, that would mean more absenteeism. Queens-
land’s hope lies in encouraging a big population of small
white settlers who will not only earn but also spend their
money in the State.
• * * •
Bank of N.S.W. will shortly ask Parliament
for the right to issue notes for another 21 years. This
provides an opportunity to insist on some changes in the
original charter. Bank-notes returned to the office in a
frayed and filthy condition should not be re-issued for
another tour of Australia’s trouser-pockets. In that
respect the Wales is a long way from the worst; but a
start must be made somewhere.
* * * *
The New York Life Insurance Co.
Total Total Added to
Income. Expenses. Claims. Outgoings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1895.. 7,796,763 1,619,244 8,455,459 5,074,703 2,722,060
1896.. 8,053,407 1,628,670 3,803,214 5,431,884 2,621,628
1897.. 8,599,400 1,728,702 3,993,715 6,722,417 2,876,988
1898.. 9,348,131 1,847,549 4,427,956 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899.. 10.775.980.2,168,393 4,569,337 6,737,730 4,038,260
1900.. 12,122,329 2,421,921 4,805,725 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901.. 14,568,426 2,751,748 5,680,944 8,432,692 6,135,734
1902.. 16,255,708 3,355,544 6,287,031 9,042,575 6,613,133
1903.. 18.138.196.3,755,931 7,110,905 10,866,836 7,271,360
1904.-19,909,847 3,996,274 8,298,338 12,294,612 7,615,236
Unlike the other American offices doing business in Aus-
tralia, the New York Life does not show in its balance-
sheet the variations in the market value of its securities.
For some years past there had been a shrinkage, following
upon the Pierpont Morgan inflation ; but things are
moving the other way again ; and whereas market values
at the end of 1903 were reckoned at about half-a-million
sterling ahead of book (or cost) values, the market value
of securities at the end of 1904 was reckoned at £1,489,238
in excess of book value—a gain of nearly a million ster-
ling during the year. In other words, the co. has what
is practically a reserve of £1,489,238 against depreciation
of assets. These are big figures—more than twice as
great as those of the aggregate fluctuation reserve of all
the Australasian offices combined. But, then, in this
matter of reserves (apart from assurance funds) the Aus-
tralasian offices have been singularly lax ; it is the one
fault, in fact, which can be found with practically the
whole of them. And in addition to this informal reserve,
the American office under notice has a contingency re-
serve of £1,738,761. The two make an aggregate of
£3,227,999. It isn’t pleasant to reflect that in spite of the
magnificent results some of them have achieved, the total
investment fluctuation and other reserves (apart from
assurance funds) of all Australasian offices was, on last
year’s figures, £602,824. Certainly Australasian offices
may also have hidden reserves in the shape of excess
market value of assets over the value at which they stand
in the books ; but there isn’t much room to hope that it
is so. It is quite as likely that the securities of some at
least of the offices are over-valued. But that isn’t so
much the fault of the offices as of the fool-legislators of
Australia, who won’t adopt that thorough-going Pro-
tection which, in building up American prosperity, has
also naturally added steadily to the value of American
securities. And that these additions are real enough is
proved by the fact that last year the New York Life made
a profit of £102,679 on securities sold ; and even in 1903,
in spite of the market slump in that year, the net amount
realised over cost price was £56,397.
The expense rate in proportion to total income
is still high—far ahead of the Australian average. The
A.M.P. shows a rate of £8 16s. 7d. per cent, on total
income ; the Citizens’ (ordinary) £l3 ss. lid., and under-
takes to make it £lO on premium income next year;
the National Mutual, £lB Is. 5d.; the M.L. State,
£l3 19s. 4d. per cent.; and here are the New York Life’s
averages:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1895 .. £2O 15 4 per cent. 1900 .. £l9 19 7 per cent
1896 .. 20 4 5 „ „ 1901 .. 18 17 10 „ „
1897 .. 20 2 1 ~ „ 1902 .. 20 12 10 „ ~
1898 .. 19 15 3 „ „ 1903 .. 20 14 2 „ „
1899 .. 20 2 5 „ „ 1904 .. 20 1 5 ~ „
The other American offices show up in about the same
way. On premium income alone the N.Y. Life had a rate
of £23 12s. Bd. per cent., while, notwithstanding the
appalling rate shown by some of the smaller Australian
offices, the average rate for all ordinary business by Aus-
tralasian offices is £l9 12s. per cent. In this comparison
even the average Australian office thus shows up ahead
of the American. On the other hand, the Australian
office, with its cheaper methods, could never hope to show-
such glittering turnover figures note the 10 years
increase in income from £7,796,763 to £19,909,847. The
American doesn’t aim at cheapness. It isn’t part of his
country’s policy—in the first place, at any rate. If cheap-
ness comes in the end, it is through bigness.
• •
Interest earnings are pretty good. Assets in
1903 totalled £72,465,231 ; in 1904, £80,275,405. On the
mean, the return was £4 2s. 3d. p.c. But as the assets
include over a million set aside to meet matured obliga-
tions, and kept in cash, the true rate is higher. On the
mean of the assurance fund and all reserves, the rate was
£4 3s. Bd. p.c. This is nearly ss. p.c. below the average
Australasian rate. But the American office hardly touches
that branch of lending business—on policies—which the
Australian office finds particularly profitable. Even the
mortgage business is neglected. This comparison seems
interesting and significant—it shows the disposition of
securities
A.M.P. Citizens. N.Y. Life.
Public Securities.. 25'Op.c. 287 p.c. 14'3 p.c.
Bonds and Stock.. —60 T
Mortgages.. .. 45'9 „ 407 „ 6'o ~
Other Loans .. 20'8 „ 6 - 5 ~ 10 - 0 „
Freeholds.. .. 4-2 ~ 18'9 ~ 3‘4 ~
Cash, &c 4-1 ~ 5.2 ~ 6'2 ~
“ Bonds and stocks ” are mostly railroad stocks, and are
represented by much the same assets as the public
securities held by the Australian offices. All these stocks,
as well as all mortgages and freeholds, are set out in the
report in detail —an excellent guarantee against the
stuffing of the balance-sheet with fictitious values.
* * * *
Maoriland insurance co.’s continue to chop off
their nose to spite the State Insurance Department.
Recently the farmers complained that they were being
over-charged by the co.’s. The Farmers’ Union proposed
a scheme of mutual fire insurance associations, and the
co.’s tried to bludgeon the new- idea, at its inception, by
refusing to re-insure in the case of an Otago and Canter-
bury association. The State Department immediately
came to the rescue, and offered to take the excess lines—
a fact which so pleased the farmers that, should the
mutual associations scheme not mature, all future busi-
ness will probably be placed with the State concern.


dsg
T ram ways for Mines.
CHEAP HAULAGE
often Means tbe Difference between
Dividends and Liquidation.
IF INTERESTED, write
The Central Mining & Tramway Applianoes Prop., Ltd.
64 PITT=ST., SYDNEY. nelbourne Office: 504 Little Coliins-street.
A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager.
DHOSPHORUS, Arsenic. Carbide. Castor Oil,
r Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, sfiellac, “Sun
Brand” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuricnod Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
jagr 1 CORRESPONDBNCB INVITED.
hy. markwald.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle,
Auokland, Wellington, Cunedln, Chrlstohuroh.
City and Suburban Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Brisbane)
Dividends Writ- Added
and Divi- ten to Re- Re-
Profits. dendTax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ ■ £
Dec., 1896 .. 4076 3 p.c. = 2953 7,928
Dec., 1897 .. 4110 3 „ ~2797 366 947 8,875
Dec., 1898 .. 4681 3} „ ~ 3125 102 1,454 10,329
Feb., 1900 .. 6914 4 „ ~4007 211 1,696 12,025
Feb., 1901 .. 4937 4 „ ~3221 556 1,160 13,185
Feb., 1902 .. 4778 4 „ ~3221 1,417 140 13,325
Feb., 1903 .. 4502 4 ~ ~3219 1,192 91 13,416
Feb., 1904 .. 4547 4 „ ~3159 1,353 36 13,451
Feb., 1905 .. 4381 4 „ ~3185 10,380 4,267
The formal reserve fund, which stood at £ll,OOO, was
during the year reduced to £lOOO, and the contingency
account was also drawn upon to the extent of £3BO ;
this was in order to provide for a revaluation of assets.
These assets consist principally of amounts owing by
borrowers (apparently including properties in possession),
£122,254 ; 12 months ago the total was £138,042, and
most of the difference seems to be the result of the
revaluation. At the same time, deposits held by the
societj 7 have shrunk from £68,918 to £57,903 ; the office
held £ll,OOO of certain N.S.W. trust moneys which, under
a recent decision, had to be withdrawn from investment
outside the State. This amount has been repaid chiefly
by turning last year’s bank credit of £4876 into a net
debit of £1316. These and some other recent movements
are shown hereunder :
Deposits, Interest Interest
Capital. &c. Paid. Received.
1900 .. £82,916 £74,418 £3332 £11,343
1901 .. 80,353 73,709 2934 9,576
1902 .. 77,275 74,551 3137 9,400
1903 .. 76,591 77,701 2992 9,018
1904 .. 75,515 72,918 2958 9,146
1905 .. 75,402 62,870 2839 8,815
It can’t honestly be said that this suggests much progress.
But business in Brisbane is mostly a matter of nursing
and building up a constitution that was wrecked in
former dissipation ; and seeing that, while it is doing
that, this society is also able to pay 4 per cent, dividends,
it can reckon itself among the singularly fortunate.
Moreover, since on average total assets the interest
reoeived was £5 14s. 3d. per cent., the assets are
apparently reckoned at something very near true value—
and that’s also something for a Queensland co. to feel
good about. Next year, in view of the writing-down
which has lately taken place, the return ought to show up
still better.
* * * •
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston): —
Added
Dividends and to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1899.. £316 5 per cent. =£262 £54 £727
Sept., 1899.. 375 5 „ ~262 113 840
Mar., 1900.. 454 5 „ „ 262 192 1032
Sept., 1900.. 397 5 „ „ 262 135 1167
Mar., 1901.. 760 6 „ „ 315 445 1612
Sept., 1901.. 523 6 „ „ 315 208 1820
Mar., 1902.. 465 6 „ „ 315 150 1970
Sept., 1902.. 626 6 „ „ 315 311 2281
Mar., 1903.. 510 6 „ „ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903.. 470 6 „ „ 315 155 2631
Mar., 1904.. 815 6 „ „ 315 500 3131
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 „ „ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905.. 696 6 „ „ 315 381 3864
The profits on capital and reserves amounted to a hand-
some £lO 6s. 6d. per cent, per annum. Gross earnings
from commissions and interest (lumped together, as they
shouldn’t be) were £1193. Income is very irregular,
though the trend is distinctly upward ; but expenses are
creeping up, too. In March, 1901, they were £377 ; now
£497. The funds are on fixed deposit with the Treasurer
(£5000), on mortgage (£8141), deposits and cash (£8258),
and “ amounts owing to association ’’ (£7114). The last
item is pretty indefinite.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway 00. (mine and
railway in Tasmania, shareholders chiefly Victorian when
they are not J. Bull, debenture-holders mostly J. 8., as
usual) :
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. off.
Deficit.
£2148
Mar., 1904 £115,272
Sept., 1904 129,502 124 p.c. =£78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905 161,755 12} „ „ 78,750 £8764 238,087
In addition to the amount shown as written off, £13,843
was spent on prospecting in the first period (7} months),
and was charged to profit and loss, £8717 in the next half
year, and £13,030 in the term lately closed. These
amounts might perhaps be justifiably added to profits
and then written off ; but on the whole, as prospecting is
just as necessary to mining as ore-breaking is, matters are
best left as they are shown above. There is, however,
another reserve of a special sort. When Mt. Lyell 00.
was reformed in August, 1903, in order to effect amalga-
mation between Lyell and North Lyell, £140,000 of
debentures were issued in place of North Lyell’s little
load. Under the trust deed, repurchase of these bonds
has been steadily proceeding (North Lyell had failed to
take up £20,000 worth in its last term, and this obligation
was passed on to the new co.). With the profits made
from repurchase at a discount, a speoial reserve (Deben-
ture Redemption Fund) is being built up. Matters in
this respect have moved as follows :
Debentures Retired Special
Outstanding. During Term. Reserve.
Aug., 1903 .. £140,000
Mar., 1904 .. 120,000 £20,000 £lOOO
Sept., 1904 .. 97,750 22,250 1556
Mar., 1905 .. 89,760 7,990 1899
Shareholders’ capital remains at £1,200,000. Hitherto
there has been no formal reserve fund, and practically the
whole of the surplus has been used in the business, except
as to £23,790 of Vic. 3 per cents, (face value £26,030). It is
now proposed to create a definite reserve fund of £25,000,
apparently using this investment as a basis. In an
erratic business like copper-mining, in connection with
which new plant is likely to be called for just when cur-
rent profits have dwindled, it it hardly necessary to say
that the decision is one of the best. And the decision
ought to be kept in good working order so long as the
co.’s present run of prosperity continues. Copper has
averaged £66 during past half-year against £57 in present
co.’s first term; so that on the half-year’s 3950 tons of
metal, the market has put £35,550 into the co.’s purse.
As even £57 wasn’t a low price, co. hasn’t done anything
very heroic in the matter of a nest-egg by having £25,000,
seeing that nearly all of it was virtually put aside before.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell position on March 31 was plenty of
cash to set against the continued decline in value of fair-
grade ore reserves. Present co., since it started in Aug.,
1903, has smelted ore as follows: —
Average Assay.
* V
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Tons. Per cent. Oz. Oz.
Mt. Lyell .. 476,504 I'o3 2'04 'O7O
North Lyell 159,245 6'20 219 'OO2
To understand the situation, one has to take Sticht’s
estimate of ore reserves in Mt. Lyell mine, drawn up in
April, 1903
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Tons. Per cent. Oz. Oz.
Above No. 4 837,793 0'703 1*72 'O5B
Above No. 5 775,405 0'639 2'09 'O4
This meant a total supply in April, 1903, of 1,613,198 tons
of Mt. Lyell ore averaging '66 per cent, copper, l'9oz.
silver and 0'0490z. gold, available for treatment. This ore
is only valuable as flux and fuel. Co., therefore, has to
rely for divs. on North Lyell ore. Latter has been beaten
out at the rate of 1000 tons per week ; or, since the esti-
mate, over 100,000 tons have gone, out of a total of 170,000
tons. Thus there is about nine months’ supply in sight
above 500 ft. of 6 per cent. ore. Working this in, during the
past six months Sticht’s average panned out at 2T7 per
cent, copper as against 2'41 per cent, for the pre-
ceding six months. With copper £9 per ton higher
than during the September term, Sticht could afford to
take low-grade stuff all round, and so he may have left
some of the better grade Mt. Lyell pyrite ore. But the
weakness of the situation is emphatically the poorness
of development at the 600 ft. If the ore there
totals 30,000 tons the co. will be lucky. It is
a pity that there is such a contraction, for the
work done by Sticht is that of a top-notcher. His
costs show a drop from 14s. B'2sd. to 13s. o'39d. per ton ; but
this saving is lost through the decreased value of the Mt.
Lyell ore treated. Oo.’s superphosphate works have run
away with over £30,000, and a little interest is felt as to
whether there is any arsenic in the ore to worry those in
charge. Surplus liquid assets amount to £305,979 against
£223,780 twelve months back ; but co. has still £89,000
worth of North Lyell debentures to redeem, so it needs to
have a bit up its sleeve.
» • * «
Broken Hill Block 10 Silver-mining Co. :
Ore Value.
Treated. , ' s Divi-
Tons. Silver. Lead. Profit, dends.
Mar., 1900..69,183 15 T4oz. 16T6 p.c. £46,752 £45,000
Sept., 1900..72,246 14'56 „ 14'23 „ 51,747 45,000
Mar., 1901..77,651 14'58 „ 15'32 „ 22,811 45,000
Loss.
Sept., 1901..81,852 14'83 „ 14'47 ~ 129 5,000
Profit.
Mar., 1902..42.547 14'7 „ 15'31 „ 5,386 nil
Sept., 1902..42,825 16'44 „ 17'89 „ 720 ml
Mar., 1903..50,279 14'01 „ 16 13 ~ 1,509 nil
Loss.
Sept., 1903..49,778 14'54 „ 16'39 „ 1,777 nil
r Profit.
Mar., 1904..69,777 13'8 „ 15'2 „ 12,680 nil
Sept., 1904.. 70,643 1315,, 14'8 „, 11,090 nil
Mar., 1905..59,687 1413,, 14'92 „ 20,400 nil
It has been a broken half-year, and the figures are not
much of a guide as to the new mill’s capacity; so that
a supplementary report, which will probably be available
at the half-yearly meeting, will be of more value to in-
vestors. Go. had an overdraft of £26,550 on Sept. 30th ;
it was back to £14,880 at the end of March, though £7450
had been spent in plant during the half-year. Profits,
shown above, have not, however, been charged with the
full amount spent on the new shaft. By the end of cur-
rent month the overdraft should have been wiped out or
thereabouts; and then divs. may be looked for again.
Even on last half-year’s basis, profits were at the rate of
nearly 7s. per ton of ore ; and present run averages about
3100 tons weekly. B.H. Prop, made last half-year just
upon 10s. per ton, and B.H. South still more ; and Block
10 ought to pass the B.H. Prop.’s figure easily enough
while metals keep present price. Market values the mine
at £252,000. It has often valued a mine higher with less
cause.
• • * *
Seems to be some uncertainty about assays from
B.H. South Blocks and other prospecting shows, which
are not subject to mill tests. Junction North lately gave
fire assays from the 1137 level, but additional and higher
values for lead contents by the wet process. There is
enough “discretion” used, as the manager of Block 10
pointed out, in sampling ore, without using any in assay-
ing. The method of assays should be stated.
«** ■ *
First four months of this year B.H. Block 14’s
have been the best (or worst) gamble among stocks
quoted on all exchanges. They went from 3s. sd. to 13s.
101 d., and flopped back to 9s. 7d. Junctions were close
up, from 4s. 3d. to 10s. lOd. Off the Barrier, Smith’s
Creek, the N.Q. tin show on which Adelaide once went
nap, played between 3s. Bd. and 7s. lid. ; but they stick
around 7s. A heap of money was dropped on Hainaults
and Lake Views ; latter touched 295. and 16s. 3d. Alto-
gether, the gamblers can’t growl that they haven’t had
plenty of excitement.
* * * »
Cobar Copper Mine hasn’t got quite everything
it expected from the Chesney deal. Copper value is
all right, but Chesney’s mission was to furnish enough
silica to flux the basic ore of the copper mine. For this
purpose Chesney has failed, and Syndicate is again buying
quartz locally. Oobar Gold Mines has a huge supply of
clean silica and an undecided policy, therefore there are
possibilities that Syndicate’s grasp may stretch out that
Way * , ' .
Queen Bee, Cobar (N.S.W.), often referred to
as rather better than the ordinary run of copper shows,
has lately emphasised the unwisdom of giving an option
over portion of its shares. Said option was a smart move
by a Sydney man, who lost no time in hustling his expert
down the mine to say if 1000 shares were worth 235. 6d.
Of course they weren’t (how could they be when market
quoted buyers scarce at 20s ? And expert’s decision that
smelting was altogether ahead of developments was only
to be expected. Something had to be said ; and as there
was nothing wrong with the mine or the ore going to the
mill, derogatory remarks applied themselves to ore that
wasn’t in sight through tardy development. As a matter
of fact, surface indications at Queen Bee, with but a few
tons of ore at grass, don’t suggest an overwhelming
development of ore body ; but so far as things have gone
this isn’t the fault of the mine, it’s the fault of the policy.
Anyhow, with expert Daly’s exit, question arises, whose
shares went into the option ? And who authorised the
examination ?
« • * *
Occidental’s new Moore slimes process is in
course of introduction. Occidental has 85,000 tons of
tailings, going 2dwt. ; said that new process will treat
at 2s. 9d. a ton. If so, tailings heap should send a fair
cake of gold to the bank during current year. Inter-
esting to note that directors have at last seen the wisdom
of a reserve fund. It may, for a while, interfere with
divs., but it will make them more regular by and bye.
* * * *
Burra copper show, near Mt. Boppy (N.S.W.),
is to be given another chance. In bygone days of ex-
pensive treatment Burra furnished some pretty rich stuff,
mostly from pockets at upper levels ; but there isn’t
much surface indication now of past workings, except on
uninviting mullock tips and the remains of a furnace.
J ust before closing down mine looked to have a chance of
lode opening up at lower levels. Just then water rushed
in, and the pumps never got there to explain things.
Burra has lately been worked in a little way, on tribute,
at a profit, and as it is only four miles from Mt. Boppy
mine, and skirting the same granite belt, development of
lower levels is worth while.
* * * *
Golden Fleece, Wyalong (N.S.W.), treated 20
tons at Cockle Creek for Boz. per ton. Stone was raised
from the 500 ft. level on the western reef. It looks per-
manent. At True Blue levels are being run at 800 ft. on
sulphide ore with satisfactory results. Important work
to be taken in hand shortly will be connecting True Blue
with Brilliant at the 800 ft. Both properties are owned
by E. E. Tyler, on behalf of an English co. A property
that shows signs of coming again is Operator, where
tributors are putting down a shaft to cut the reef in
ground hitherto untouched. There is a large decrease in
the output of free milling ore compared with the field’s
first three years. Owing to the scarcity of material, it is
intended to temporarily close down Channon’s cyanide
works ; and Nicolas’ battery and the Huntingdon mill are
idle.
• * • *
The Star of the East crowd who took over the
management from the old crowd are not making the hair
fly. People have had too much of Sebastopol Plateau
stocks, and if Ballarat wants them to jig it must provide
the funds itself to pay the piper. The Consols lode at
2200 ft. is what it has been for hundreds of feet above—a
good body of quartz minus payable gold ; while the down-
ward continuation of the Guiding Star lode isn’t worth
the little flutter that was attempted last week, when it
was said that gold was showing.
* * * *
A phrase from a manager’s report set the Mt.
Tarrangower, Maldon (Vic.), share racket going
“Battery started, concentrates will be heavy.” It
was a sort of “Up guards and at ’em ” signal,
for the heavy brigade swung into line, and ever
since have been gobbling up spec.-selling differences.
So far, the mine is an ordinary little show ; it has pro-
duced between 200 and 300 tons of quartz, which no one
locally expects to average lOdwt. There is about as much
evidence that the co. has struck the Lisle shoot of stone
as there is that the co.’s prospects are rose-tinted. Until
some reserve of stone is opened up and its value proved,
to buy shares is to let people out who ought to be kept in.
However, the battery has started; and, as said concen-
trates are “heavy,” that is a ray of light on the wintry
sky. Perhaps the whole horizon will be suffused with
gold when the plates are cleaned. Poor speckers if it
should be so !
* * * *
With the Duke of Wellington, Meredith (Vic.),
out of the way as a dividend-payer, save to “ short ” sellers,
a side glance is being taken at the Duke of York. This is
the one-time hero of the market corner which brought
several brokers down. Mine has been out of sight almost
since settlements were made. For one thing, investors
hate stocks that have been made gambling counters;
secondly, gold has not been found in payable quantities ;
thirdly, there is the present silence of the directors over the
challenge thrown out by Holst, of Ballarat, to take the
allegations contained in his circular into the law court.
On broad lines it can be said of the mine that it has some
patches of good stone. If these were used with judg-
ment, two or three payable, perhaps good, crushings
might be possible. But bn the principle that one swallow
does not make a summer, so it will be wise to remember
that more than a few average returns are required to
make the Duke of York an investment.
* •■**....
Men who wish they hadn’t. Two members
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, forgetting the
divine precept to love one another as brothers, fell to
fighting like brothers. The bigger and bulkier led off,
but the smaller and more active not only got the first
whack in, but slipped his fellow-member’s head into
Chancery, and held it there till someone intervened. Up
to this stage it was a very ordinary row between two very
ordinary mortals over a very ordinary and insignificant
share sale. Then the committee lifted the dispute
into quite a higher realm. Solemn people sat to
adjudicate on the row. Finally the aggressor was fined
£2O and his adversary £lO. All of which shows that if
you want to have a “ scrap,” have it where the ordinary
pplice magistrate can adjudicate ; for then 20s. and a
caution will probably fit the case.
* ■* * *
The unwisdom of Ministers of the Crown re-
taining their positions on directorates of mining co.’s is
shown by the following extract, taken from the circular
report of John Hutchinson, an outside share-pushing
broker in London, and published by the Times. The ex-
tract closes a puff in respect to the Victorian Cornish
mine, Daylesford (Vic.): “A highly encouraging' feature
is that the chairman of the local board of directors is the
Hon. Donald M‘Leod, Minister of Mines of the colony of
Victoria.”
* * *
A sixpenny div., declared by Cock’s Pioneer
Co. (Eldorado), is the first reward of a long patience on
the part of the shareholders. The Pioneer, which is the
largest public co. sluicing in Victoria, was floated during
the dredging boom with £4200 cash to its credit, and
calling power. It began operations by letting a contract
for £5700 worth of steam engines and electric plant without
appointing a consulting engineer to prepare plans and
specifications and boss the show. The result was a
muddle that required much consultation of many en-
gineers in the thereafter, for nearly every bit of machinery
had to be altered, the remedying of one original evil
only serving to reveal fresh trouble. From first to last
nearly £20,000 of shareholders’ money was spent where,
perhaps, a wise expenditure of £lO,OOO would have
sufficed. Mr. J. S. Dane—Melbourne’s festive “Jack”
Dane —was the promoter of the co., and he seems to have
been the moving spirit of confidence who kept the share-
holders jogging along through the wilderness. All the
calls were fully paid up. Dane secured the services of a
sturdy Scot engineer, Hugh Falconer, by whom the plant
was finally put on a working basis. The field of opera-
tions is over 72ft. deep, and is worked by two centri-
fugal pumps, in series. The total height of lift is 130 ft.,
or thereabouts, and the hopes of the most sanguine in-
vestors have risen to quite a lofty altitude.
* dr * *
“Wamba”: There is trouble at Talbot (Vic.)
over dredging proposals, and petitions and counter-
petitions have been presented with regard to the granting
of dredging leases. One of the “ anti ’’-petitions was carted
round for signature by an old man. “ I don’t mind the
blasted thing myself,” he said; “ I’ll soon cross over ; but
what about the risin’ generation ? The dredges will ruin
the soil, for a few quid, and leave the place desolate.
And then what will the risin’ generation do? The land
isn’t too good now, but we can get a bit of crop and fruit
off it, but what’ll the risin’ ” I fled ; but I heard him
awhile after button-holing for a fresh signature, and the
only words I could catch were “the risin’generation.”
The leases have, however, been granted ; but, all the
same, there is force in the old man’s objections. Dredging
ruins the land dredged, and is a very shortsighted busi-
ness in most cases where the land is any good at all.
They have learned this in the western States of America,
where the “ risin’generation ” found its heritage turned
into mud and stones.
* * » *
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, is still pushing
on developments eagerly, and will shortly start opening
out at 2000 ft. At 1200 ft. L.V. lode has been cut 230 ft.
east of shaft, and assays 9dwt. for 4ft. wide. This looks
poor, but then this mine’s ore reserves average only Bdwt.
Everything on field is gradually getting down to bedrock,
and days of ounce values and fireworks outputs are past.
Raven and party have erected a 5-head mill on Hannan’s
Reward North though the stuff is estimated at only 6dwt.
for 25ft. wide ; while Presgrave and party are erecting a
Huntingdon mill on Excelsior (late Hannan’s King Brown
Hill), whose lode is 30ft. wide and estimated at sdwt.
Both properties are within 10 minutes walk of Kalgoorlie
post office. Thornett Bros, have a 10-head mill running
on Mt. Ferrum, and are knocking out a good living from
stuff going less than 4dwt. over the plates, but cyaniding
produces double that value. The lode is quite 50ft.
wide. Eades has long run 15-head on Devon Consols on
4dwt. ore, including tailings.
* * * *
Great Coolgardie (W.A.), which fizzled in July,
1901, after an ignominious seven years, and one recon-
struction, in still in hands of a London Official Receiver.
Capt. Warne, oldest mine manager on the fields, ran the
show successfully on Bull’s bullion from its inception in
Sept., 1894, to July, 1901. Then Rosewarne came, and
insisted on a test crushing. Result, 200 tons panned out
only 2oz. ldwt. 6gr., valued at £7 Bs. 7d. This is world’s
record, nearest approach being a crushing from Meyer
and Leeb, Transvaal, result of which John Scott, the then
manager and erstwhile boss of Kanowna Consols, wore on
his watch-chain. It weighed about loz., but tonnage is
not recorded.
• * * *
Karridale, Burtville (W.A.), has treated 134
tons for 13400 z. by amalgamation, and there is 26dwt. in
tailings by assay. Total from mine to date 1500 tons for
3800 oz. There are many small rich shows in this district,
but reefs are small, water level is only 15 to 20ft. below
surface, and work is soon blocked. No co.’s operate,
and fossickers are left to their own resources.
• • • •
Princess Royal Central, Norseman (W.A.), is
forging ahead at a great rate. After sinking main shaft
to 975 ft., opening up was started at 950 ft. At first reef
was worthless, but in driving south, values of 6 to Bdwt.
were obtained, and mill tests confirmed assays. Manager
Henderson anticipates getting better ore further south,
and is pushing on. Another month or two will show
whether venture is to prove a success.
* * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is making slow pro-
gress with new treatment plant, and it will be about a
month before it starts. Plant is designed to treat 4500
tons monthly,"and ore reserves are estimated at 100,000
tons, worth 10'8dwt., equal to nearly two years’ supply.
If costs can be brought down to, say 305., there should
be a fair margin of profit. Development is being prose-
cuted in Perseverance, or Morty, lode, hitherto neglected,
and it will shortly be tested at 1200 ft. It appears to be
better than the L.V. lode. A year ago a bore found ore
worth 4oz. for 14ft. of core, supposed to be 345 ft. north of
Perseverance, and 90ft. south of Hainault. But bore
holes are so unreliable.
* * * 4
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.),'continues to
look healthy at No. 11 north drive. Lode at furthest
point reached 700 to 750 ft.—ranges from 6 to 24dwt.
over a width of 7to Bft. Very little has been done at No. 12
beyond cutting a chamber, but work will be started there
shortly. An increase of treatment plant is mooted ; this
will make mine far the biggest producer in the State.
Quarterly divs. are assured for some time, as ore reserves
are quoted as over 500,000 tons, but this is not accepted
unhesitatinglv. With new plant 10s. quarterly is even
talked of. This would mean £500,000 a year—a pretty
tall order.
* # * #
A German expert named Roliler is inspecting
and sampling Great Fingall Consols, and it is said he will
report that ore reserves have been much over-stated. It
may be pointed out that March return panned out at
17dwt. only, against 23dwt. estimated value of reserves on
July 1 last. This shows either an extraction of 74 per
cent, only, or a possible over-estimate of gold contents.
Since estimate was published, 10 months ago, monthly
returns have averaged 18dwt. Tonnage treated since July,
about 150,000 tons.
* * • *
Fair Play, Kalgoorlie, about half a mile north
of Hidden Secret, has treated 34 tons for 2900 z. This was
won from an oxidised lode at 85ft. Like Hidden Secret,
it is part of the ground bottled up for years by Hannan’s
Prop. This co. held a square mile of territory, most of it
totally unprospected ; but recent success of Hidden
Secret and Fair Play is stimulating work. Fair Play was
recently put under offer to a Perth syndicate, but a
demand for a cash deposit of £2OO was too much for the
Perthites, and the deal fell through.
*•* , *
Monte Christo, Kalgoorlie, is being equipped
with a 10-head mill to treat alluvial soil and cement,
which covers the area to an average depth of about 6ft.
Kalgoorlie-Boulder railway intersects property, and when
railway was being built Government collared thousands
of tons of this ground to make embankment. The co.
which held the ground sued Government, and, after
tests, was awarded 30s. per ton, less estimated treatment
charges, stuff being valued at 7idwt. Since then dry-
blowers have been continuously at work turning over soil,
and have probably materially reduced the average.
Battery, in course of erection, is antediluvian, but
beggars can’t be choosers.
* * * *
The Review (London) August 19,1904, writes:—
“ The Colonial Mutual Life Office does quite a big business,
some three quarters of a million sterling in new policies,
and neary £330,000 in premiun income. The funds are
now running close up to three millions sterling, and as
the oldest Colonial office established in Great Britain, it
will always be entitled to respect and consideration.”*
» » * *
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime and
all Mining and Assay Chemicals and Apparatus, Micro-
scopes and accessories can be obtained of Felton, Grim-
wade and Co., Melbourne. Fourth edition, enlarged (red
cover) of illustrated catalogue of all mining requisites
now ready. Post free on application.*
* * * *
Most millmen are scared to crush through fine
screens, owing to the production of slime mineral which
cannot be caugbt on bumping tables. The Sperry Slimer
will soon put this fear to the right-about. It is a vanning
convex buddle with an adjustable rubber surface. Write
for particulars to N. Guthridge Ltd., Sydney and Mel-
bourne. See bottom of back cover.*
7T * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
M * * *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely good results. Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgoorlie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discription of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Oil Engines.—lnformation has just reached
us that the Government Award (Gold Medal) in this class,
at the present Capetown Exhibition, has been awarded to
the “ Hornsby ” Oil Engine. The success of this engine is
perhaps the most remarkable in engineering history.
There is no engineering speciality which can claim, as
the “ Hornsby ” oil engine does, to have obtained every
highest award in the world—viz., England, America,
Australian, France and Russia, &c. —and last year it
secured the British Government award of £lOOO. It is
made in various types of fixed, portable, traction and
marine, and in the latter it is made in suitable sizes for
small pleasure craft, and in gradations of h.p. up to 500
b.h.p., as supplied to the British Navy. R. Hornsby and
Sons, Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.*
* # * *
The Babcock Boiler seems to be favored by
mining engineers, over 50 mines in Australia using these
boilers. Mount Morgan has 20, Waihi Gold Mining Co.
24, Mount Lyell 12, Tasmanian Gold Mining Company 7,
and at Broken Hill there are 30 distributed amongst the
mines, water works, and electric supply, while in
Western Australia they are looked upon as a necessity,
there being now 68 in the principal mines and Kalgoorlie
Water Supply. It will be noted that coal is expensive at
Broken Hill, and wood fuel is expensive at W.A. These
figures speak for themselves. Evidently the ease of
transportation, the economy in fuel and maintenance and
the adaptability to any class of fuel, that are such con-
spicuous points in the Babcock Boiler, are much
appreciated in Australian mines. * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePiete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 speoial, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th=0.005 milligramme=l/13000th grain. Price £6O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper orep,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
Mt. Steadman, back from Maryborough and
Gympie (Q.), is in the liquidator’s hands; and mine,
plant, and a brand-new battery are up for sale. Co. was
formed in Glasgow about 2b years ago, and got to work in
a brisker way than that very dead district had known for
years. Work was laid out on a substantial scale, and a
10-head battery (which, at the time, was said to be the
first section of a 20-head mill) was put up. The mine had
less attention than the surface ; hardly anything was
done beyond cleaning out old workings ; and after the
battery had run only two shifts it was shut down,
no water being available. While the co. waited for
rain it got tired, and, after spending about £BOOO on
the property, let its affairs go into liquidation by the
court. The Bull co. is mostly a sticker; but
this co. made about the poorest showing on record. And
it had something to go on, too ; for years ago, after some
very rich stuff had been taken out and treated at Gympie, a
large body of crushing dirt was struck in the Venus
claim, at 110 ft., and 400 or 500 tons was put through for
16dwt. In workings from a tunnel in the mountain the
lode is a good deal broken, but in places there is sft. of
crushing stuff (from 8 to 18dwt.) available. There is
another reef, narrower but strong and rich in places, and
it looks as though the two might junction further down.
The whole thing will probably go for a song, and whoever
gets it will find plenty of justification for a bit of deeper
sinking.
(Continued on page 30.)


coMPermve priccs in
sgsg
FURNITURE.
THE ROUND TABLE,
in OAK, 4ft. diam., at £5/12/6
THE HALL STAND, £4
Write for Betiding Catalogue.
DAVIP JONES & CO.
George and Barrack Streets, Sydney.
KODAKS and other Cameras
from 51- up to £5O.
HARRINGTON’S
Is THE
“BLOCK” DEPOT
FOR ALL
KODAK GOODS—
Films, Cameras, Papers, & Sundries.
FRESH STOCKS always on hand. Current Prices.
Films and Plates Developed, Printing, Enlarg-
ing, Framing, Etc., Moderate Rates.
THE BEST of Everything:
Pertaining: to Photography.
HARRINGTON
AND Co.>
LIMITED,
Photographic Merchants,
New Address—
-386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Society
CANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
It is Harmsworth of the Daily Mail and
many other papers, the man who is 14 different
“ we’s,” the Napoleon of the Press combine, who
boasts in private that he is “going to see that
Australia borrows no more money in London.”
If he succeeds he will be doing Australia a good
service. Still, does it not impress the serious
danger to democracy of the modern movement
towards a Press Trust when one newspaper
“ boss ” can thus threaten to stick up a continent ?
HIS SPECIALTY.
STAGE MANAGER: “ Can you
do the landlord in the
new piece?"
BARN-STORMER " “ Can I do the landlord, dear boy? Haven't I been doing the landlords all
over this infernal country.”
In a pre-maternity case heard at Adelaide,
the other day, a 16-years-old plaintiff stated that
she first fell a victim to the wiles of defendant (a
grave-digger) when at the West Terrace cemetery
watering the flowers on her mother’s grave ! In
the midst of death men and women are in life.
* * * *
A casual Australian female was before two
North Melbourne magistrates, the other day,
charged with neglecting her infant child, five
weeks old. Evidence showed that, when arrested,
the mother was drunk in a room, where a man lay
on a bed drunk, and another woman, also drunk,
nursed the child, which had a beer-soaked rag in
its mouth, and was likewise drunk. The Bench
told the woman to clear out, and she left the court
with her infant. And the Bench was not drunk,
To remind Q. of the part her farm-
burners took in the Boer slaughter, the War
Office is sending out to Brisbane two field
guns and ten cases of rifles. On arrival they will
be handed over to (it makes one smile) Chief
Sec. Airey. So far, no arrangements have
been made as to their disposal. No one seems to
want them. At one time, while the country was
frantic with war fever, the Mateking rioters would
have rushed around to meet such a consignment
with roystering cheers and a band procession.
Now they are as last night’s cigar-stump and
empty bottle.
* * <• *
The law is no respecter of persons ; wit-
ness a recent Age (both reports on the one page):—
A bank manager, embezzlement, released on good
behavior.
A wharf lumper, stealing Sd. worth of potatoes, three
months.
• » • •
N.S.W. Presbyterians the other day held
an “antique service” of the type of the John
Knox days. The “kist of whustles” was
silenced, and good, old-fashioned hymns, with
plenty of Hell-fire in them, intoned with good
nasal vigor. Even the modern collection was
abrogated for a more ancient but less searching
method of harvesting the thrums; and when a
church tampers with the sacredness of the collec-
tion it is in dead earnest. But. alas, the antique
flavor was spoiled by the preaching. There was
not to be found in these modern, degenerate days
a good four-hours stayer, capable of pursuing a
subject to fourteenthly, with some last thoughts
before finally, and of weeping and howling artis-
tically in the pulpit. The hymns were ancient,
the collection was ancient, but the man in the
pulpit was modern. The gentle light of civilisa-
tion has exorcised the old-fashioned black Presby-
terianism from the parsons of this land.
Japan and Britain are supposed to be
allied to preserve the integrity of Korea and
Manchuria. Japan now wishes to talk about re-
viewing the alliance, but not on any integrity
basis—on a plain thieving platform of the absorp-
tion of those provinces by Japan.
The present short-sighted prison system
i n Australia is always shouting out for alteration,
It can ’ t dea l with the despicable beings that can
~,f , ° . ,
but won * work ’ except to keep themselves m beer
and skittles, and who throw on the State the task
of providing the necessaries of life for their
families. The problem is always before the
Benches. A father is hopelessly in arrears for
the maintenance of his youngsters, who are in the
care of the State. If he is sent to gaol—to which
he’d evidently not object much—the State simply
has to keep "the whole family. Prisons should
be labor, hard labor, and. profit-making labor
places, and then the problem is solved. The man
who won’t work outside to keep his family can
then be made to work inside.
Things are changing up north, where “the
white man can’t work.” Proserpine mill is
putting up decent quarters for the men in place
of the old abominations. Hitherto, in most of the
sugar districts, a man has been thrown into . a
pig-stye and expected not to be a pig. Some men
wouldn’t be pigs even
in a pig-stye, and in
that case they mostly
got out of it and
sought other work.
It wasn’t a question
of “can’t work;”
it was merely a
question of “won’t
work” till the con-
ditions were madefit.
Treasurer Kidston,
when he was up that
way lately, struck a
good sample of local
conditions. At Moss-
man’s he found about
a dozen pubs., but no
savings bank. The
men were paid by
cheque, and the pub.
was the place where
the cheque was melted.
It was a lovely scheme
for demoralising the
white, and helping the
argument of the nigger-
lover ; but Kidston
decided that things are
to change. For a start,
the men are to be paid
in cash, and a savings
bank will be opened.
* *
A petitioner told
Melbourne Divorce
Court, the other day,
that when his wife was
deserting him she took
away her x>x under
the escort of a police-
man. A female peti-
tioner in another case
said that her husband
broke into her house,
where she was living
apart from him on
account of his yiolence,
and when she went for
the police she was told
they could do nothing for her. Justice Hood
commented : “Apparently the police will protect
a woman’s box, but not her body.”
*
The proposal to exterminate rabbits by
inoculating them with disease germs, if put into
practice, will probably cause the appearance of a
new human disorder. But it won’t extirpate the
pest. The bubonic plague was first communicated
to man by the rat, and it has been waging war
against rats sinee the world was young ; but the
rat increases faster than the plague microbe, And
the rabbit is even a quicker breeder than the rat.
* * * *
Maoriland, which a couple of years ago
gorged itself with Jingoism, is now suffering from •
nausea. The latest proof of the state of the
public’s moral stomach, as it were, comes from
Wellington school committee. The committee, in
its annual report:—
There is one other matter your committee tried to do,
which was to have the board make the sanitary arrange-
ments fit for a civilised country and fit for a self-respecting
child to use. This, however, the board considered such a
trifling matter compared to Navy League snobbishness
and sticking a flag on a pole, that it has entirely ignored
the committee’s recommendation, and consequently the
sanitary arrangements are as indecent and disgusting as
they were 12 months ago.
* * » •
Bent Thomas, of Victoria, is just now
arguing points with a far-seeing lady whose hus-
band was killed while on duty on the railways.
Instead of making the usual claim for compensa-
tion, she has offered the Brighton statesman the
option of paying compensation, or of providing
with permanent railway employment another
young man whom she proposes to make hubby
No. 2. Theoretically, there is but one way of
getting into the railway service—by examination—
but practically Bent appoints whom he pleases,
and if there is a chance of making a present saving
of a hundred or two by appointing the widow’s
new mate to a billet, Bent is the man to do it,
and blow the Law !
* » « »
The North Australian syndicate, to which
in ’Ol S. Australia foolishly granted the lease, for
42 years, of 6234 square miles of country on the
Roper River (N.T.), for an annual rental of £3BO,
and which nursed its “mineral, pastoral and all
other concessions” for four years, has at last
persuaded somebody to “take up” a part of its
lease. The somebody is a Glasgow company,
which is understood to have paid a deposit of
£3OOO cash, and to have offered the syndicate
30,000 paid-up shares in the new co. Whether
the canny Scots propose to raise buffaloes, or
export beef, or develop the mineral resources of
the “ province ” is not known—probably all three;
but the one obvious fact about this precious N.A.
syndicate is that, for all it has done to develop its
concession, S’Australia had better have hawked
its lost province round Britain itself. As to the
labor question, whether the Scot reckons to
import Hindus, Chows or whatnot, nobody seems
to know anything ; but the deal is one that wants
watching very closely indeed.
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
PADDY: “ What breed may he be?”
DUDE: “ A cross between an Irishman and a
skunk.”
PADDY: “So he is related to both of us.”
According to a Tariff Commission witness,
much inferior spirit is imported into Australia
and used indifferently for making whisky or
furniture polish. A man in fact may use it for
polishing his sideboard or his nose.
* * * *
In a Hebrew mansion you never meet a
Hebrew servant, or a Hebrew butler or footman.
You may meet Isaac in the counting-house or in
the store, but never in menial service.
Until one of Melbourne’s coroners com-
mits someone for murder, the casual infant will
continue to be starved to death. Dr. Cole,
sitting lately on the usual infant, spoke firmly
about the “case’s” mother. The child had been
under three nurses, the second of whom hired a
wet-nurse, at some expense, and the infant thrived.
But the cost was alleged to be too much, so the
baby was sent back to artificial food again, and
died. It was shown that, since the child’s birth,
the mother had married well, and was quite able
to afford the wet-nurse expenses, but the infant
was an undesirable, and artificial food is quite as
efficacious as, and a good deal less dangerous than,
strangling or drowning. The bench only “spoke
firmly.” It didn’t issue a warrant.
A LESSON FROM THE PUPPY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I, by a wayside water standing, saw
A wild parabola of plimgipg pup,
With eloquent, vain protest of the paw,
Flung wide into the weir and swallowed up.
Thrice, struggling to the bank, was he thrust down.
Could he have heard, I would have whispered him :
“ ’Twill be the same to-morrow, why not drown ?
What matters it whether you sink or swim?”
Am Iso wise, then ? I have seen strong lives
Sucked down and stifWl in life’s foulest mud,
And yet in weakling me a something strives
Not to be quenched. What is this in the blood,
T muse, that will not let a puppy sink
tVhile he has strength to drag him to the brink ?
C.S.W.
GOD’S GOOD MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ God’s good man ” stood at Heaven’s gate ;
Assured he spoke : “ I am known here,
You labor under some mistake.
Go and inquire, sir, I shall wait.
My li e has been a life austere,
And not for me the brimstone lake.
Peter looked pity : “ Man, come in ”
But sounds of revels bright and gay
Burst through it when the gate stood wide ;
Gasping “ This is some den of sin,”
To see the merry crowds at play,
“ God’s good man ” dourly kept outside.
“ My brethren would not join that throng ;
Those dancing crowds they would condemn.
Where are my brethren ? Tell me, pray !
They sing good hymns the whole day long.
No trifling, Peter ; show me them I ”
Quoth Peter : “ They’re across the way !" '
Sternly he passed the gate and gained
A groaning black-clad crowd, who scowled
At “ God’s good man ” with fiery eyes ;
But by no doubting was he pained.
i nd when in agony they howled,
1 e said, “ Ah ! this is Paradise ! ”
F. HAMER.


SHORTHAND
Successfully
taught by Mall by
the largest and
most highly
diplomaed staff of shorthand instructors in Australasia.
FEES MODERATE. INSTRUCTION INDIVIDUAL.
PROFICIENCY GUARANTEED.
“ Home Study ” Post Free.
STOTT & HO ARE'S Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post thro ayho at
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS BRISBANE,
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
SILVER STAR STARG
■ ■ -
TXT TUI? WADT Tl
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
KING STREET,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention
What with St. George’s Day, Shakspeare’s
Birthday, Centenary of Schiller’s Death, Burns
Nicht, May Day, Empire Day, Christmas Day,
King’s Birthday, Queen’s ditto, Prince of Wales
ditto, Boxing Day, A.N.A. Day, Eight Hours
Day, Foundation Day, Arbor Day, Separation
Day, it’s about time that the Federal Parliament
set aside certain days in the year for pure work.
• * « •
S.A. Supreme Court has just shut down —
on the application of Paris Nesbit, K.C. —on a
strong attempt by lawyers to undermine the pro-
visions of the Local Courts Act for cheap law.
The Act provides a carefully graded scale of fees
for solicitors (every solicitor is a barrister as well
inS.A.). £1 has to cover the whole case for a
claim under £2O. Over £2OO the schedule grows
more generous, and*allows £7 for getting up the
case and £3 for “attending trial.” A recent hard-
fought case ran to seven days in court, and the
winning side tried to recover the £3 seven times
over; but the higher authority decided that the
single fee had to cover the whole calamity.
* * * *
Said that steps are to be taken to
regulate the admission of domain dossers and
others to the Free Public Library, Sydney. Some
regulation is wanted, or, if it exists, wants
enforcing in regard to supervision of the readers
at the library. The nation’s property should be
preserved from spoiling, and no man should be
admitted to the book collection who is in a filthy
state. Even the poorest can be clean if they
choose.
* * * *
Stated in the press that the underwriters
are instituting inquiries into the rumor that the
bulkhead doors of the Orizaba could not be closed
when the vessel struck off Rottnest Island. This
revives the old difficulty over bulkhead doors.
It is surprising how careless of this vital point
many vessels’ crews are. The wise law that every
iron steamship must be divided into sub-divisions
by watertight partitions is universally adopted,
but no one has yet found a way to ensure that the
doors between the several compartments can
be easily and properly shut when occasion de-
mands that they be banged-to in a hurry. It is
not so long ago that a well-filled passenger ship
in collision on the Australian coast was only saved
from appalling disaster by the proximity of a
friendly beach. So swiftly did the water engulph
the ship that experts readily saw that the water-
tight partition doors could not have been shut, as
demanded by regulation, though the deck officers
swore that their orders to close them were in-
stantly obeyed. As the company was an influ-
ential one, and no lives fortunately had been
sacrificed, the matter was not probed to the
bottom. So serious is such a, lapse regarded that
it might vitiate some of the insurance policies.
AFTER THE HONEYMOON.
HUSBAND: “ Didn't you promise to love, honor
and obey? ”
WIFE: “ How do I know what I did ? I was
listening to what you were promising.'”
Out of 1501 candidates for positions in
Vic. police force, only 121 were found to be abso-
lutely fit and proper men, another 58 are doubtful,
who have still a chance, but the rest are not
wanted on the job. And yet the Melbourne
policeman is blamed for assuming the haughty
airs of a superior person. There is an unwritten
rule that good looks shall tell in applicants’ favor
too. The idea is to make it the irresistible force
evidently.
The present monopoly by
one firm of meat-purvey to in-
coming vessels to Sydney has
killed the old competition,
which kept several “butcher-
boats” down at Watson’s Bay
to book orders. They were
specially constructed for the
work—being long, narrow,
light, and very fast. The other
day a survivor of the fleet left a
few minutes before the pilot
boat (steam), and arrived at a
ship, two miles out, first.
* *
“ C.N.” : Remark in re-
cent Bulletin about Anglo-
Indians desiring colored crews
on mail-boats, in order that
they may bully them according
to custom, recalls the fact that
on almost every voyage to
England there is a row on
leaving Colombo, owing to the
newcomers calling loudly
“ Boy !” instead of “ Steward !”
The white steward, though his
ranks are already being invaded
by the Indian, declines to
answer to that call, and ructions
almost invariably take place.
* *
At a recent Sydney school
teachers’ meeting one speaker
referred to the studied absence
of the Australian poets from the
local University’s exams. He
challenged the authorities to
show that the work of Kendall,
Dales', Quinn and others was
not as worthy of study as much
of the matter put before the
local youngsters for examina-
tion purposes.
♦ *
Maoriland Government
deals strenuously with the
population problem. A railway
employee, a porter, got five
weeks’ holidays, recently on
the plea that his girl lived be-
yond the horizon in backmost
N.S.W. and he wanted to
marry her. Leave to a porter
for such an unheard-of length of
time is unobtainable on any
other pretext, even the death of
a parent. A short while back
an out-of-work asked Seddon
for a job as temporary clerk.
“Are you married?” roared
the boss. “No,” replied the
applicant. “Well, get mar-
ried and I’ll give you a job,”
thundered Seddon, and the ap-
plicant withdrew. Four days
later he returned, accompanied
by a lady, whom he introduced
as Mrs. Out-of-work. The as-
tounded Seddon after a few seconds found his
tongue—and the job. #
While the Sydney Council is endeavoring
to hand the key of the street to motor omnibus
speculators, and proposes to license certain char-
tered libertines to kill old, deaf, and slow-footed
citizens at sight, it is interesting to read the
speech of John Burns in the House of Commons,
wherein he declared that motor omnibuses were
not only larger, dirtier and dearer, but also more
dangerous than tramcars because of their “roving
commission.”
• * * *
The patience of at least one of that long-
suffering tribe, the country doctor, has given out;
and he talks as follows to Gundagai (N.S.W.) per
local advt. :
A battalion of make-
believe impecunious
rogues, who can find
ways and means for
every source of costly
apparel, entertainment
and amusement, with
a trip or two to either
Sydney or Melbourne
thrown in, find always
a plague-rat hole in
which to escape from
the doctor’s fees. The
honest ever - grateful
poor have always had
the services of the pro-
fession throughout the
whole world, and will
continue to have them
while, and as long as,
the poor continue to
exist; but the dis-
honest vagabonds who
endeavor to cheat the
Almighty God Himself
with their whining
tongue and hypocritic-
al promises, can hardly
be expected to be either
grateful or sincere and
honest to those who serve
them in times of sickness and
distress. To all such (and I have a
squadron of them on my books), I say,
“ Go to the practitioner who prescribes your deceit, your
lying, and your dishonesty. Go to him, he will write
your prescription in indelible pitch, and knows well how
to supply the actual cautery, an application much needed
by your dishonest souls and bodies.
« * * *
Recent Melbourne beer tragedy is an
almost exact replica of an incident of 20 years ago.
In that case three mates took a trip to a Hobson
Bay port in a small coasting steamer, and sampled
a bottle of beer qn the journey. Immediately all
three became violently ill, and one died before
they could reach a port. That beer had been
bottled by a Melbourne brewery, which got the
bottle in the ordinary course from a gathering
yard; but analysis discovered strychnine crys-
tals in the bottle, which had been imperfectly
washed.
-One d*f iwdlfe cold frozen *r of
Still- boirc °lflfe njom.nz - A run/our
--ifoit flit-** p6*"Z r ° v* > onje
dr art) m ///////
milKnjw CA«phf tf AS %'y
v/eof Alone »ftui if m ric ’ confidence
to fljt tooK flje
The njA» who Knowj
everything, beforehand
s<■ belijyes nolfjlog—
■ of Course Ije
me AS u S“AI
"BuT3orue of If)v fubtit
gullible enough " VJhy l *VAs
only Just" Visin' "to <ne o)«
Ago - m
M**Tubbs
life Cify irtAn
njiide njoney ,r
in no -tTnje-
~]f)e received "hfe new>
on his ee J> ’ PrAfei- is
■Moor d*ily food hr Sic l4l
,\N ' We II IjAVt
v>m) for dinner 16-d\y 'lvf ■
Jr don't' let" if be so late
\ ai> ye>terdAj •"
° i'. : %y . s
6. 41 'v *>
V ,
Tfje Gov ,
,« aide-lW 5 w* fafe*
ty-ffc > Uf^d j
Ve W«• W r - ,r 7 \r. ,
pr/e A«V i
Uni uiii/i/i///A',s/y/.
e, “*"r erc
Te $ try
«*•>« aisf'orfi dl fr™ T
One tjnd* {°; l**
Order etfjt*' /° l ' Fried err,
Ai -for ordiw/ < tt l W s ~
Were AS Cow[>l«'te l T f°T" a "
AS UW -ffifs locus'^.
Hu eK*a bnlliwt of flj<
BortAlis? sam*jfte 1,
Wife On He WAd h»"l» f r<lm I’e 1 ’ e M
‘Dunno! SV d H« -«?*A«*A.le
He W? * ol f K»< ts Whd
i- He frown f ielcl in f ron+ we<l
better go -for aH v/eVe woriy
fey
do Know”
if * Would ''"M 8 /:*
JiH h's |rftl *
rffip -fo KorwA-f
rlo s r of *'
A l ' WAS % f <W
aJ"He U)
offiet - °f
cUf %'♦' ne^cojis l
CONCERNING SAPPHIRA'B HUSBAND.
Victoria’s Insolvency Judge Molesworth
lately investigated the affairs of an extra-saving
couple—a pattern pair of thrifty souls. They
married in ’97, when the wife spent her savings of
£lO on furniture and hubby made over to her all
his property, a house on which some £5O was
owing. She cleared that off, then set about pur-
chasing two other properties on time-payment.
Since marriage she had earned on an average 10s.
a week as a white-worker. Hubby also had been
in steady toil, and had regularly handed his wife
all his earnings, from £2 to £2los. weekly, and she
put the savings into property. He neither drank,
smoked, nor gambled; his only amusement was
to take his children to the gardens, and then “ he
never bought them any fruit or lollies.” Latterly
his earnings had fallen off, and since, presumably,
the time-payment properties did not prove suc-
cessful, he failed, liabilities £626, assets £257.
What a lesson on “thrift”! Never smoked, nor
gambled, nor drank ; never even bought the laddies
a ha’porth of lollies. Poor kiddies ! And poor
thrifty man and wife ! They can be sure of but
the one life, and what have they made of it ?
Yarra Bank (Melb.) asylum was greatly
fluttered, the other day, by the reception of a
’phone message from the detective office, which
seemed to point to the Waranga Basin murderer
being within the walls. A hasty interview with
the suspect (who was under another name) pro-
duced promising results. “Did he know Waranga
Basin?” “O yes!” “Did he work there?”
“My oath!” “Did he know a man named
Skinner?” A cheerful “Yes, well!” made the
asylum hum with gladness. When the party
admitted he had gone under the name of James
Edwards, there was soul-satisfying joy. In other
matters the man was obligingly corroborative.
He said he had sold a horse and dray at
Murchison about the time Edwards is supposed to
have sold a horse and dray at the same place. Also
he had sent a postal-note to his brother, and the
time of his admission was handy to the beginning
of the hue and cry after Edwards. But he wasn’t
the man wanted. His self-identification with
Edwards was merely a natural freak of his lunacy.
He was having a gcod, hilarious time at the
expense of the law.
Thomas Bent, last week, let daylight into
one of the North Melbourne hotel cases. The
Arbitration Court awarded £1494 as compensation
to the owner of a doomed pub., and £491 to the
occupier, a woman. Then the woman’s creditors
started in pursuit of her compensation allowance.
The landlord, the brewery, and the lawyers put in
claims amounting altogether to £550, and finally
they got a judgment and sold her furniture for
£25. She says it was worth £250. Anyhow, the
disposal of the furniture left the creditors with a
full claim to the whole of the woman’s compensa-
tion —when she gets it. She called upon Bent,
whose heart loveth all lady hotel-keepers, and he
suggested that the hungry creditors should give
her £250 if he passed the grant of £491. They
refused; so Bent, in his amusing character of bene-
volent despot, refuses to pay any compensation
unless the lady gets her “whack.” Declaring that
he is not compelled to carry out the law’s com-
mand in these cases, he says that the Premier who
would not battle for a pub-keeping female in dis-
tress is unworthy of the name of Bent.
♦
A Great Remedy. —From W. A. CAVA-
NAGH, Esq., M.A., Inspector of Schools,
Horsham: “I have found Arnold’s Balsam a
most valuable remedy in warding off and curing
colds, both in children and adults.”
Cured with three doses. —From Mr. S. C. BENNETT,
Murtoa: “My little child having a severe cold in the
head and lungs, and having heard of Arnold’s Balsam, I
decided to purchase a bottle from our local chemist.
The curative effect was wonderful, and it is a medicine no
one should be without. The little child was relieved the
first dose, and after three doses did not cough any more.
Please accept my thanks for having placed a genuine
medicine in the hands of the people.” Sold by all stores
and chemists.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
YESTERDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little sea-maiden with eyes so blue —
Blue as the waters of inshore bays—
With your clinging arms, and rebellious hair, and your
wonderful, Innocent baby ways—
Little sea-maiden, tell me, pray,
Have you forgotten our yesterday ?
Little sea-maiden, you seemed so true—
True as the steel of the tempered sword—
With your warm, ripe lips, and your laughter low, and a
breath of remembrance in every word.
Little sea-maiden, demure or gay,
You called me lover but yesterday.
Little sea-maiden, I would that I
Could forget the kiss that you said was play,
For its memories sting, and its memories stay, and the
future looms lifeless, and cold, and grey.
Little sea-maiden, you went your way,
And left me lonely that yesterday.
E. J.
THE VOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From wood to wood remote
The sweet voice swells along
With rich, clear, purple note
In a pagan song.
’Tis the viola : Hark
To the music deep and bold 1
Dawn rising from the dark
With a voice of gold.
It thrills and fills the air,
Then, like a lover’s lute,
Beneath a Seville stair
Is tragically mute.
V.J.D.
THE PROMISED LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a sage beside the road
(My staff and scrip in hand)—
“ Young stranger, bound for what abode ? ”
“ I seek the Promised Land.”
His tongue was passionate with truth—
“ You know not what you say ;
The land you seek is that of Youth—
You left it yesterday ! ”
SAO.


Peter F. Hearing’s
The Grand BALLROOM SUITE
BAUMANN’S CAF€
Now Bcoking Oates for the Season.
BEST CATERING. MODERATE CHARGE S.
Menus and Estimates Gladly Supplied.
sg
ĝs
dsg
‘‘GEAVeriETTES”
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAIIN COATS.
P.D. The New
<orsets
For Distinction of
SHAPE, DESIGN,
and STYLE. . . ♦
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Mat 16, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
Cabled news of Lady Rawson’s health is of
good quality, though meagre in quantity. After
she had left Fremantle she began to improve, and
got through the tropics without relapse. Gov.
Rawson, with private sec. Wilson, returned last
week, after an awfully stick-in-the-black-mud trip,
from Broken Hill. They drove 485 miles in
buggies, and the only members of the party that
didn’t enjoy the trip were the horses. Eight
horses to a buggy. The Governor, who had the
back seat to himself, and was always glad of
camp-and-boil-the-billy time, made the ac-
quaintance of several delightful men of the Dead
Horse Bob and Greenhide Harry type. At
every township en route the Governor held a re-
ception, while all the inhabitants—often to the
number of thirty souls—attended. Majority of
these townships had never previously seen a
Governor—were probably seriously disappointed
at his lack of resemblance to a circus. In the
baokblocks the circus is the gauge and standard of
magnificence.
State Governor Rawson is at present staying
with the Northcotes in Macquarie-street. That
is, he sleeps there, but his daytime address is
very uncertain, by reason of the numerous charity
meetings he is attending and hospital wings that
he is unfurling. Private Sec. Wilson has left for
Coolangatta, Dr. John Hay’s place, for a month’s
holiday and quailing. Messrs. E. Wood and
Heathcote Amory (what a sweet, Mrs. Humphry
Wardish name !), who abode with the North-
cotes a few days, are fellow-shootists. Mr. Wood
is son and heir of Viscount Halifax.
Justice Edmund Barton and family are house-
hunting. Their home at N. Sydney was sold last
week to the Prestons, fortunate Westralian specu-
lators, who have a motor car made from the design
of one owned by King Edward. The price given
for the house was £6OOO. It is a beautiful artistic
home with an unsurpassed view of the harbor, and
was at one time the property of the Prosper
Williams family.
The early mayoress catches the first mite. It
was very smart of the mayoress of Mosman to
“get there” first with a ball in aid of the
Alexandra Hospital for Children. For the next
few months there will be an outburst of suburban
dances in aid of the same charity. A big meeting
of the Central Committee, held in Sydney Town
Hall last week, was smile-provocative from one
point of view. A crowd of amateurs in drama
wrote expressing their willingness to make melo-
dies to the moon in aid of the charity if the com-
mittee would pay the rent of theatre or hall and
incidental expenses. At an early date Mr. J. C.
Williamson will give a matinee in aid of the fund.
Mrs. Hubert Kelly, sister of the late Mr.
Patrick Jennings, and squatteress in the New
England district, has thrown the Warrigal Club off
its centre by giving a fluffy at-home in its pre-
mises. Members hid their flasks and portraits of
ballet girls, and surrendered themselves to elevat-
ing influence of tea and scandal.
“Like a Parisienne.” When a woman is so
described you are supposed to be quite informed,
and to see a mental picture of a woman who is
an epitome of physical symmetry, elegance in
dress, and intellectual charm. With very few
exceptions, the French women who visit Aus-
tralia are very like prosperous, middle-aged mem-
bers of the Chosen race. Their dress is generally
above reproach, their intellectual charm may be
the same, but grace of outline and coloring (if ever
they were existent) must have taken very early
flight. Persons who have travelled much in
foreign parts say that they never saw elsewhere
prettier girls than in Sydney. Go to a fashion-
able gathering, ball or race meeting, go into
cafes and shops and see the waitresses and shop
girls, go even into Sydney factories, if you are
m search of the Girl Beautiful.
But do not look for beauty in the restaurant
where the attendants are chosen by the proprietor’s
wife. The coffee-and-angel-cake establishment
run by a public company is the place to seek it.
A public company cannot be talked blind by its
wife, or kept awake with curtain lectures.
Miss Edith Kirkwood, the handsome soprano of
the Watkin Mills concert eo., struck a sparkling
mailboat match on her way out here. A Mr.
Gray, of Bombay, is the prize-winner. Again:
the husband is a marine product.
. Mrs. Haigh Jackson, wife of the musical comedy
singer, gives a recital, vocal and instrumental, to-
morrow at Nicholson’s. The lady, who is tied up
to Melbourne Uni. Conservatonum, must hurrj
back to classes and lasses in the southern city.
Mr. Abraham Hoffnung, senior member of S.
Hoffnung and Co., is, with his wife, on a visit to
Sydney. Mrs. H. is a lady with a large number
of grandchildren, and not a furrow on her face.
Also with huge diamond solitaires in her ears.
The week before she left London Ada Crossley
and her young man lunched at her flat. The
young man is described as very tall and fair, and
wasn’t backward in declaring his intention of
taking care of Ada.
Miss May Summerbell, the last of Sydney’s
women composers whose music has : echoed in
foreign parts, is about to visit London to arrange
for the publication in book form of somewhere
about 90 of her compositions, and try to sell the
European and American rights in an Australian
opera. She will return immediately the business
is transacted. Miss Summerbell is the girl who
brought to Australia the gold medal offered by the
Chicago Exposition for the best original musical
composition. At the age of 12 she had a compo-
sition published by a hard-headed musical firm as
a paying investment; and since then the same
firm (Palings’) has published many others. Her
: music is played nightly by orchestras in Sydney
■ and Melbourne, and the ballets she composed
for the Players’ presentation of “A Runaway
Girl ” in Sydney recently, raised considerable
enthusiasm. Between songs, waltzes, marches,
an occasional cake-walk, a Mass, and an opera,
she finds time to swim and to write fiction. With
her music she takes to London a novel.
Mr. Arthur Adams, Maorilander, author of
many verses and a book or so, is on his way back
to Sydney from London.
Sydney girls will suffer heartaches over the
departure of M. Nettement, the bijou young
Frenchman who “did something” at the Con-
sulate. He had a good dancing connection, was
within easy reach of the best society and possessed
the neatest moustache in Sydney.
Another departer will be Mrs. Mark Sheldon,
who goes by way of America.
Baronet Rupert Clarke returns from Melbourne
presently in his yacht to make a trip along the
Queensland coast. Talking of yachts : Mr. Alfred
Gollin wants to know when Sydney will build a
racer that will try to recover the laurels he tore
from here last season.
If you take tickets for that worthy charity-hop,
the Dental ball, it will be a deed that Will crown
the day and help to gold-fill you with satisfaction.
State Governor Rawson is to be present. Hon.
secs., Mrs. W. T. Beckett and Mrs. Donald Smith.
Date, June 7, at Paddington Town Hall.
It was rather “pretty” of Ada Crossley to have
the music at her wedding made by Australians.
Mr. George Clutsam, formerly of Melbourne,
composed a bridal chorus for the occasion, which
was interpreted by Nora Long (of M.L.), Meta
Bfiring (of Adelaide), Ivy Ansley (of Auckland),
Eva Mylott (of Sydney), and the Misses E.
Florence and Mary Conly (of Melbourne).
A local doctor, widower, an authority on the
laws of psychic phenomena, is about to be married
to a young widow.
Overheard on city tram. “That crystal-reader
is a fraud. When me husband was at the war
with the Boers she said he’d come out of it alive,
but ’d die of Brike’s disease three months after.
That’s three year ago, and he’s got no sign of
ennybuddy’s disease as yit.”
A symposium of London tailors has decided
and declared that the fashionable color for men’s
attire shall be green in all shades —from violent
cat’s eye to Brussels sprouts. Olive green Hom-
burg hats, and motoring caps, dark green bowler
hats, greenish tweeds and flannels are seen in all
the leading tailor shops. Trousers are to be
much tighter. The general tendency is tp make
the thin man a green lamp-post and the stout man
an over-grown cabbage.
Every now and then an attempt is made to
make man a picturesquely clothed animal. It
always fails, because the poor thing is a worker.
Even if he’s a peer and rich he’s got to work or
make a good pretence of so doing, else heads
will be *• shaken at him, and other peers
will give him the frozen eye. Gone for
ever the picturesque knee-breeches, ruffles,
and clouded canes of the leisured beaux of
the Georgian era. All the portraits of famous
men of the knee-breeches period show the originals
to have good calves and straight legs. Painters’
padding, no doubt. There must have been G. H.
Reid figures inside those satin cylinders and velvet
coats, as well as those of the B. R. Wise and
Francis Suttor build. The great bar to the
picturesque dressing of Him is lack of leisure to
keep knees from growing “ knocked ” and bodies
from becoming triple expansion. Besides, She
couldn’t spare Him space in the wardrobes for
beruffled clothes.
Which reminds me:—
The great tragedy ot the average man’s life is that
Nature refuses to conform to the cylindrical ideal, and
when the marks of his knees and elbows appear in his
cylinders he is filled with shame.— Bernard Shaw.
New French Consul-General, in a pair of bright
orange boots, a very British suit, and decollete
collar, like Federal Justice O’Connor’s, is now an
addition to the early forenoon city traffic as he
goes to work. He makes the mistake of wearing
his mouth slightly open. Statesmen’s catchment
areas should have a locked-and-lost-the-key ex-
pression.
Miss Maud Jeffries is another early-bird, alight-
ing at florists, drapers and photographers,
dressed in dark blue, piped with crimson, and cul-
tivating a very small waist inside a wide leather
belt.
An American litterateur on the symphony :
The most profound truths, the most blasphemous
things, the most terrible ideas, may be incorporated
within the walls of a symphony, and the police be none
the wiser. Suppose some Russian professional supervisor
of artistic anarchy really knew what arrant doctrines
Tsehaxkows'ky preached!
With these few remarks I lead gently up to a
correction about a symphony. Awhile ago I
wrote that Tschaikowsky’s sym. (the Pathetique)
was presented to the Amateur Orchestral Soc.
by Lady Mary Lygon. In a note as nice as bee-
jam (as the little boy called honey), the hon.
sec. of the Society informs me that Miss Woolley
was the donor of that sym. The “information”
had been given me by a former hon. sec., and when
I confronted him with his error he behaved nobly.
Set all his worldly affairs in order, made provision
for all those dear to him, even to providing milk
for the cats of his bachelor household down to the
third and fourth generation, then drank a hem-
lock cocktail.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“We have a bustling, breezy Mayoress in Mrs.
Pleasance. She likes gadding, and does it with a
cheerful countenance. She knows, too, the way
to do things without nervousness or stilted dig-
nity. Mayoress Strong was an example of the
rigid housewife and absorbed mother, being lifted
bodily from the home life to the Mayoral dais. It
took her breath away, and when she recovered it
with a certain amount of sweet patience, her term
was done. In the case of Mrs. Gillott there was
the school-teacher reserve force to arm her Mayoral
person. She is a strong, self-reliant dame, who
can show fight, and she stood square and fair on
the dais, ready for any Social emergency. Mrs.
M'Eacharn was tempted a second time into the
sphere by a spouse who loved office, but the
nervousness that attacked her first appearance
never left her. The poor lady visibly shrank from
the palms and palaver of the multitude. She
never grew used to it. But Mrs. Pleasance is the
typical plump, pleasant gad-about; and that’s how
she gets over so much ground and is so buoyant
after a day’s drag round to shows, meetings, and
conferences.
“ The Mayoral Pleasances |have fixed their chil-
dren’s fancy-dress hop for the second of June.
Close on two thousand are being invited. Mrs.
W. Greene is to supervise the special dances. The
idea is taken from Mansion House customs, don’t
you know ! Melbourne is coming on.
“ More Osbornes for this State ! Prof. Osborne,
who has stepped into the shoes of Prof. Martin
up at the ‘Shop,’ has a youthful phiz and an
elderly brain, ’tis said. So has the other don,
Prof. Skeats. There seems to be quite a number
of scholastic and scientific authorities of young
and innocent appearance about Victoria. Prof.
Harrison Moore is a leading example. Dr. Svme,
the little man with the big saw-skill, is another.
Headmaster Blanche, of C. of E. Grammar School,
is a third. Also, one of the wisest and most expe-
rienced clergymen of Melbourne has a round,
frank, unknowing face, and looks positively just
twelve.
“The most fetching member of a Concert Co.
only recently landed on Western soil became en-
gaged to an old flame on the voyage out. The
man who tells of the romantic happening travelled
on the same ocean-rocker, and says a meeting of
the kind on board ship is fatal. There’s no escape
for either. The disposition to follow the easiest
line of resistance settles on one shortly after
leaving Suez, and thereafter demoralisation (in a
sense) advances steadily. One sleeps through the
sunny noon, or lolls with a whisky or the girl
close at hand, and nothing matters. It is the
place, wound up the man, for estranged couples to
patch up the old tears in their affection. What
a groat idea for a philanthropist to work on ! He
could collect all the disunited, the unhappy pairs,
together, pack them on board (a sailing ship,
for preference), and leave them to come to amic-
able terms. The notion deserves consideration.
It has greater possibilities than Swift’s Hospital
for Incurable Bores, Fools, and Liars.
“ The Alston Wallaces are forward with a motor-
brougham—the first of the kind in this State.
The young people who benefited in the large for-
tune left by John 0. Wallace are spending it with
a splash. The two brothers built the most expen-
sive yacht to fly a pennant in Hobson’s Bay of
late years. Both had motors. One built a Toorak
mansion. Now comes the motor-brougham. The
two wives do their share of spending cash—but
entirely on clothes.
“Dr. Jones—the imported medico for the Mad —
is youngish, musical, and, for all that people know
to the contrary, unmarried. He’s an acquisition.
Already he has been entertaining and singing
serenades (Schubert’s in particular) to his assorted
guests. He is housed at the Grand.
“ There’s a bunch of Bananalanders at Menzies’
just now finding this southern hub disgustingly
cold. The smartest of these is Mrs. E. J. Met-
calfe —the Toowoomba dame. The last very
interesting person from the land of sugar-cane was
a grass-widower, who went at a hot pace in these
quarters, and spent as much time and money on
his fair friends as a whisky agent.
- “The change wrought in the style, manner and
address of that clerical Apollo Rev. E. S.
Hughes—by travel and matrimony is one that
astonishes most of his old worshippers. He still
wears an inverted, soup-plate kind of hat, but his
eyes are dancing in a regular two-step manner,
his mouth is in a constant stretch of humorous
smile, his face is luminous, and his walk, talk and
manner jaunty. But I wonder will the girl
parishioners like the rollicking shepherd whom
they used to call ‘ Father ’ Hughes and resort to
as their confessor in time of trouble.
“The precocious child pianiste—Miss Rita
Hope—made music for a few appropriate souls on
Wednesday, at the Alexandra Club. Miss E.
Goode (a Marshall-Hall emissary) was there with
the offer of wide glad smiles and a brisk hand-
grasp to greet the numbed arrivals. It was a
drab day, with lots of moisture in the atmosphere.
And Miss Rita Hope—clever as she is—has not
the piano art of raising the temperature any. Her
three gems from Chopin, Beethoven, and the
time-honored Gluck were fingered faultlessly and
with ease, yet they lacked the flame-play of soul.
But little Rita is just in her teens, and the biggest
prize-taker for her years in the State. Also, she
is gazelle-eyed and modest. Under the circum-
stances, her concert on the 30th should draw.
“ There’s a novel glove-cleaning chalk out, and
Collins-street girls are busy with it. Light
gloves acquire a look ot general smudge early in
their career, and dainty misses find the new glove-
chalk an easy and effective remedy. The other
day in Mueller’s quite half-a-dozen girls were dust-
ing their gloves over, preparatory to joining
tea-parties. But how the feminine accoutrement
spreads ! _ Presently we’ll be carrying on our per-
sons, besides powder and puff and fringe-pins,
palm mirror and ’kerchief, his last billet doux,
tram tickets, a book, small change, glove and boot
polish, a change of complexions, sweets, and a few
hairpins. And all without a pocket !
“By the way, among girls the mo. is not so
much in favor of late years. The kiss that tickles
has had its day. Girls seem to prefer the idea of
a lip that conveys a soft feminine itripression with
a hard masculifie earnestness.
“The Stonington petrol-car driver has been
once more fined for going the pace that kills.
The imported servant complains bitterly of
injustice and persecution by the Force. But the
local motor-pushers of Mr. W. Kelly and Dr.
Officer have been fined as often, and there’s no
police prejudice alleged by them. Tram em-
ployees, fated to travel in snail-fashion and see
the fliers on the road flash past, are the principal
witnesses for the Crown in all these motor cases.
The thing is to moderate speed on the tram track,
and go full-petrol ahead where only meditative
cows inhabit the view, and there’s no law in
sight.
“ The marriage of Mr. Albert Gran with Mrs.
Nicholas is the one romantic incident of a chilly
week. On Saturday the pair quietly went-off and
had the knot tied. The widow has lost most of
her fortune, and the match is undeniably one of
love. The lady has three large sons. Conse-
quently the Alexandra Club and most other smart
sets declare it is absolutely touching to know that
a love match is still possible.
“Mr. John Cooke, the foreign-meat authority
who has been opening depots for tinned bunny and
chop in aspic all over the globe, has just returned
from his business gad. He had seven months’
residence in Buenos Ayres—the Spanish centre of
South America—and tells astonishing; stories of
life and fashion there. A race meeting in that
city, says Mr. Cook, is the most gorgeous sight
in the world a grand opera first night, a
a scene of dazzling brilliancy. The dress and
beauty of the carefully-protected women are of an
amazing order.
“ A whole host of Melbourne women broke out
into lip or cheek or ear eruption last week, owing
to the alleged bite of a peculiar May-fly. The
Mayoress was a sufferer, so was Mrs. Marsden,
wife of the Government Architect, and ever so
many others. .Some said it was mosquitoes, others
had a theory that they were suddenly going bad in
spots, and were waiting to see the blister turning
green. All were in a mortal funk till one and then
the other slowly got better.
“ The farce of the She Political League inviting
the Falstaffian Bent to address its meeting the
other night proves that the political agitatress has
no sense of the eternal fitness of things.. In the
first place, Tummy Bent doesn’t believe in female
suffrage. Secondly, he is not the sort of ideal
stained-glass St. Thomas to pose as an oracle to
the sisterhood who craves for the ‘ good ’ politi-
cian. The absurdity of the wobbling Premier
talking the higher, better, and more aesthetic
politics to the league became promptly evident.
The interjectors raised the Bent spleen, and he
exploded at them in vulgar speech. The scene
was disorderly. Before the meeting was half oyer
all the feminine toupees were up on end in indig-
nation, and the Purity Leaguers prayed for a fall of
cotton to pack into their offended ears.
“There’s a new way of the sex escaping cus-
tody—stepping out of its clothes, and leaving the
Force to take its wearing-apparel into, custody on
its own. On a recent Monday a policeman had
a violent man in his grip on one side, and a
wrangling woman on the other. She unhooked
her clothes, slid out of them, leaving a pile of
garments in the Law’s fist, and flew on the wings
of her liberty.
“The Indian prince, or half-prince, whom the
sentimental Miss has been romancing about, turns
out to be a dark-complexioned Yank who travels
with a case of merchandise samples at hand. All
the stories arose out of one hysterical girl’s yarn
of an encounter with a dusky prince at a swell
hostelry. The Yank looked noble and aloof and
brown enough for the romantic Sullap, Mid he has
been pointed out as that person t v sr since.
“ A dame who had been preparing a political
speech for six months, and had taken elocution
lessons for extra fascination, failed to appear on the
night advertised for her attack. She probably
took fright at the last moment, having trained
herself too fine for the ordeal.
“ A pair of golfers who had gone the rounds of
the Yic. links as a mixed couple for two or three
seasons made the tie a permanent one last month,
and, true to the sport, went off on a golfing honey-
moon, probably minus the caddy.
“Mrs. Scanlon (of the Slattery case), with her
two daughters, is at present in Bendigo. Her
two daughters are likely to loom importantly as
heiresses in the eye of that centre. ”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The American papers are already discussing
whether it will pay the States better to fortify the
Philippines and to maintain a large fleet in Asiatic
waters, or to sell out to Japan.
A Beautiful Complexion.— Your mirror will
reflect your beauty every day after a few applications of
the wonderful skin food “Valaze.” This marvellous
beautifier feeds the pores and reaches the seat of the
starved tissues, thoroughly cleansing and purifying
them, thereby removing all blemishes, blackheads,
freckles, and gives to the face that clear, transparent
appearance of a healthy child’s. From childhood to old
age we guarantee you a perfect complexion. “ Valaze ”
is not a greasy substance, but sinks into the skin and
shows no trace except the radiant and fresh complexion ;
guaranteed not to encourage superfluous hairs. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar, posted 6d. extra. Ask your chemist for
“ Valaze,” and take no substitute, or write to Mdlle H.
Kubenstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Mention this
paper, and receive illustrated guide to beauty. “ Valaze ”
soap, 2s/(lasts six months); “Valaze” (aromatic) herbs,
3s. 6d. packet; “ Valaze ” skin tonic, cooling and
refreshing, 3s. 6d. bottle; “Valaze” face powder (3
tints), 2s. box. Ask your chemist for VALAZE.*
Mrs. Ralph Ward, Artistic Hairdresser
and Manicurist, 2nd floor, Woods’ Chambers,
Moore-street.*
The Queen’s Face Food as used by the
English Royal Family and other Royal personages
in Europe. Madam Olga has decided to place the
Queen’s Face Food upon the Australian market,
and will open, on 15th inst., Massage Boudoirs
when the proper use of this Face Food will be
taught by an efficient staff and where this cream
can be obtained. Face and neck massage a
speciality. Address : Top floor, Savings Bank
Chambers, Moore-street, Sydney.*


MARTYR TO NEURALGIA.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Cure All Blood Diseases.
“ WAS such a nervous wreck that I could
not stand the least noise, ” said Mrs. Mar-
JL garet Purkis, of Thorn and Forsjth-streets,
Wagga Wagga, N.S.W. “If the children
even walked across the floor my head thumped
until I thought it would break.”
Fortunately there are few women who have suf-
fered so dreadfully from neuralgia as Mrs. Purkis,
of Wagga. Usually the sufferer feels now and
again a few sharp stabs of agony or nagging
twinges at tender, irritable nerves. Even in
those common cases neuralgia is serious, because
it shows that the blood is poor and the system
run down. The nerves give no trouble when
the blood is pure, rich and red. Nervousness,
neuralgia, sciatica, hysteria, and St. Vitus’ dance
appear only when the nerves are starved by weak
and watery blood, or irritated by blood that is im-
pure and poisonous. Set your blood right with
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People, and you
will strike at the one cause of all these nerve com-
plaints. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills do one thing
only, but they do it well—they actually make new
blood. That is the sole and simple secret of their
success in curing all nervous disorders, from sleep-
lessness to locomotor ataxia. No one can doubt
their value after reading these words of Mrs.
Purkis: —
“The sharp piercing pain seemed to stab my
brain, and then run to every nerve in my body,”
went on Mrs. Purkis. “ The attacks used to
come on periodically, and I dreaded them like
death. My whole life was miserable. Every day
I grew thinner, weaker, and more nervous. I
could neither eat nor sleep. My health seemed
broken up in every way. Of course, my blood
was to blame for it all. I tried all kinds of medi-
cines, but nothing was of any use. Ordinary
treatment failed, even to ease the pains, and my
case baffled everyone. In fact, I found that
after years of martyrdom, the only thing that
could cure me was Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.
“I got the genuine kind,” Mrs. Purkis con-
tinued, “ and after the first box or two I felt them
doing me a little good. Gradually my blood grew
stronger, and I could feel it racing through my
veins. I gained rapidly in strength, appetite, and
color. Soon the new blood soothed and steadied
my nerves, and I have never had a twinge of
neuralgia since. lam cured for good, and I owe
my splendid health tc*day to the great blood-
building nerve tonic, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People.”
Mr. Purkis’ case is only one of hundreds;.
Among your own neighbors you will find cases
just as wonderful in which Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills have struck at the root of other blood
diseases like anaemia, indigestion, rheumatism,
sciatica, backache, kidney disease, liver com-
plaint, headaches, and the special secret suf-
ferings of growing girls and women when the
regularity of their blood supply is deranged.
Remember Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills do not act
on the bowels. They do one thing only, but
they do it well—they actually make new blood.
If you are not sure whether your special trouble is
caused by bad blood or not, write for free medical
advice to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Syd-
ney. From the same address you can order the
genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills by mail —
2s. 9d. a box; six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.
i
fD* WILLIAMS*
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
EOPLE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Seddon announces definitely that he
will stick to Maoriland, and has no intention of
becoming that State's High Commissioner in
London.
It seems that Dr. Muecke, Ada Crbssley’s
husband, is a throat-specialist. A handy thing
for a lady vocalist to have in the house.
Mentionedas possible next Victorian Police
Commissioner is editor Reay, of the Melbourne
Herald. Presumably on account of the close
connection of the force with journalism.
Melbourne’s naicest, the superior dames
of Toorak, Kew, and St. Kilda, explain now in
public that they have to vote for “the likes of
Bent,” but won’t ask him to their houses.
The Presbyterian Church in Victoria has
enriched itself spiritually by ordaining brother
Tong Way as a Minister. The new Presbyterian
mrson has a full-blooded Chinese wife, whom he
imported to the vineyard from Canton.
Died at Perth (W.A.) the other day, aged
62, Maitland Brown, once leader of the elected
members in the old W.A. Legislative Council,
and afterwards Government Resident at Gerald -
ton —the author of the “My God, I am proud of
you ” wire which Bigjohn received what time he
retired in great disorder from the then excited
goldfields at the point of an umbrella.
Chief Justice Way has grown suddenly
modest, and he declines to allow his social engage-
ments to be published in the Press, because “he is
only Acting-Governor and not Lieutenant-Gover-
nor,” during Gov. Le Hunte’s absence among
the Chinamen at Port Darwin.
There is a set of four brothers in Maoriland
who are, respectively, dentist, doctor, parson, and
undertaker.
Mr. Charles Griffiths, retired superin-
tendent of the N.S.W. Government printing
office, was in the public service 53 years. Ha had
served under five Government Printers.
Mr. Justice Real, of Q., years ago a car-
penter at Ipswich, was reminded recently of his
early struggles by the discovery, during the demo-
lition of an old house, of some of his tools.
Dr. Harmer, who has left Adelaide to be
Bishop of Rochester (Eng.), was given a purse of
.000 sovs., which he promptly donated to help
long country churches and curates. Dr. Harmer
■ent to school with the English Premier.
Bishop Donaldson, of Brisbane, who
rwed with Cambridge against Oxford in his Uni.
da's, has not lost his enthusiasm for the pastime.
-Nearly every morning, as a member of one of the
focal rowing clubs, he takes a spin down the river
n a skiff.
Q. Labor-member Barber took part in the
■ecent naval training at Brisbane as a member of
the rank-and-file. No one worked harder. The
u-ual brand of politician uses his influence to get
an undeserved commission when his thoughts turn
to the Army or Navy.
SUPERINTENDENT BOOKER, head of
S.A.’s Fire Brigades.
Christian Paech, dead, aged 84, the other
day, was one of several German refugees who
came to S. Australia in the emigrant ship Zebra
in the 40’s, and settled in the Hahndorf district.
He received the Government bonus as discoverer
of the old Kamnantoo copper mine.
H. Engelbrecht, the last of the Boer
prisoners at Ceylon, is now living at Hambantota,
denied permission to return to S’Africa because
he refuses to swear allegiance to Britain. He
says—“ I know myself, and could never be true
to the King. How can I make myself a false
man?’
Burnt lately, in the Learmonth (Vic.) dis-
trict, an old homestead, then occupied by Mr-
Roach, farmer, and once the residence of “Big’
Clarke, father of the late William and Joseph
Clarke, and grandfather of Rupert. It was some-
what different from the present mansions of
Rupertswood and Cliveden.
Bishop Green, at Ballarat (2/5/’O5): —
We would rather see our dear land of the Southern
Cross ruled by Christian aliens than by heathen white
men.
That is doubtless the strictly orthodox religious
point of view." And if he is logical, the good
bishop should also prefer to give his daughter (if
he has one) in marriage to a converted Chow or
nigger rather than to a white Australian who
doesn’t subscribe to a church platform. But
would he ?
“What about the mace ?” was the ques-
tion hurled at Bent the other night when he was
slangwhanging a Melbourne meeting on behalf of
the Women’s National League. Bent is open to
so many pertinent interjections that it would
be a pity to give him any further chances to
score off a misplaced query. He wasn’t the Vic.
Speaker whose mace scandalously disappeared
from the House. The missing mace was Matthew
Davies’ trouble.
THE PARTICULARITY OF CHILDHOOD.
“ What are you doing , my dear?”
“I'm sending a letter to auntie, mother .”
“ Oh! And what are you telling her?”
“I’m not saying anything, I’m just showing her my
writing.”
W. A. Archer’s system of registration for
legal and statistical purposes, put into operation in
Victoria in 1853, was the first Australian attempt
at scientific statistical compilation. The Regis-
trar-General of Engl ni l published his schedules
as models, and c mfinental countries adopted
many of his arrangements.
Maoriland has a population of 903, G7G
(including 43,143 Maoris and 232 J Chinese).
Figures produced by the Wellington Law .Society
show that there are 710 practising solicitors in the
islands (an increase of 49 since last year). This
works out at one solicitor to every 1258 inhabi-
tant or one to every 317 male adults.
Next month the synagogue, Sydney,
will receive its long-expected chief minister—
Rabbi L. F. Cohen. Mr. Cohen was selected
nearly a year and a half ago, but he remained in
England to obtain by examination a diploma in
special rabbinical subjects. He will be the first
fully qualified Jewish minister to officiate in
N.S.W.
The average travelling evangelist has the
assertiveness of a bull-ant, the enterprise and push
of a commercial traveller, the sincerity of a
tortoiseshell cat, the humor of a clown, the
manners of a larrikin, the conscience of a pick-
pocket, and the humility of a peacock. Probably
he has other good qualities, but he hides them
under his bushel of chaff.
Died, at her residence near Glenelg (S.A.),
on May 6th, Mrs. Morphett, aged 91 years.
Deceased was a daughter of James Hurtle Fisher,
the first mayor of Adelaide, and with her father
came to S. A. in 1836. She was an intimate friend
of Colonel Light, for whom she often acted as
amanuensis. She married late John Morphett in
1838, and has lived near Glenelg since 1842.
Yarn told at the Q. Anglican Conference
by a backblocks parson—a member of the Bush
Brotherhood. An archdeacon was obliged to
leave his handbag on the bank of a flooded
river to swim across. It contained his vest-
ments. Not to be beaten, he appealed to the
publican’s wife for a skirt, and wore it round
‘his shoulders. The congregation had no idea that
it was not his surplice.
Some other Sydney firsts :
Auctioneers, Simeon Lord, Macquarie Place, and David
Bevan, O’Connell-st. (streets not then named). Theatri-
cal manager, Wm. Sidaway, theatre near Charlotte Place
in the direction of the Rocks. First wool producer,
Samuel Marsden, specimen presented to Governor King
now in the Sydney Museum (1804). Printer, P. H.
Hughes (he was the predecessor of George Howe).
Anglican parson, Richard Johnson. First “ man ” hanged,
James Barret, aged 17, a prisoner for life, described as a
“ terrible villain.” His crime in the colony was stealing
a small quantity of food. He perished six weeks after the
foundation of the country.
W'hen “General” Booth arrived in
Sydney, he wasn’t driven to the Salvarmy’s
“ People’s Palace ” and given a cup of dreadful
tea and a threepenny doss. The profit from that
doleful doss-house helped to house him in sump-
tuous chambers, and provide him with something
warm. Nor were the dead-beats, upon whose
class Booth has made himself a mighty capitalist,
given a free feed and doss in honor of his arrival.
It is the profits wrung from these poorest of the
poor that provide the sinews of war for the
Salvarmy officials.
Queensland’s first Premier,
It jbert Herbert, who died the other day
in the Cold Country, came out as Pri-
vate Secretary to the first Governor
under responsible government in 1859.
George Bowen, under orders from
Downing-street, immediately instructed
him to form a Cabinet, although an in-
experienced young man of 25. There
was general public revolt at this Im-
perial impudence, but, the franchise
being limited, there was sufficient of
the imported influence to throttle the
opposition movement. The result was
that Herbert was able to hold the
post for six years, but there were many
changes in the personnel of the Cabinet.
In 1866 the imported Premier went out
of office. But the succeeding Macalister
Govt, lasted but a few months, and
Herbert again assumed office. He was
only a few days in power when Macalis-
ter was given another chance. Herbert
then returned to England.
Even Peacock’s laugh, rarely
heard these times, has its uses. He was
with a party near Beaufort (Vic.), the
other day, taking a trip through the
forest in connection with the timber
royalty business. Oman, M.L.A., was
also of the party ; and a pub. being-
reached, he suggested that as it was in
the Kookaburra’s constituency he ought
to shout. They all entered, but no one
was to be found. After waiting a while,
Peacock played barman. He had
served his friends and was drawing a
“long-’un” for himself, when a large
female burst in with assault in her eye
and battery in her arm. Anything
might have happened if Peacock
hadn’t broken out into his screech. “Why,”
said the mollified missus, bowing—“it’s Mr.
Peacock, ain’t it?” And they bad to have
another.
Dan. O’Connor, the picturesque patriarch
of N.S.W. politics, who has cleft the classics
with his tongue these many years, has decided to
visit Ireland, and incidentally England and the
rest.of Europe, after an absence of 50 years from
native Tipperary. He goes in search of a pub-
lisher for the book of his life, and will be adjacent
when the Imperial general elections are on. It is
not improbable that he will allow hi rnself to be
nominated for a seat in the House of Commons as
a member of the Irish Nationalist party. Dan.
O’Connor in the historic British Parliament would
certainly mean a sensation. Nothing like Dan.
has -ever been heard outside Australia.
When Alec Morrison, recently-deceased
musical critic and all-round journalist, first went
to London, he called on the editor of the Daily .
Telegraph, and, presenting a mass of influential
letters of introduction, offered his services as an
expert on Australian matters. “Yes, Mr. Mor-
rison.” said the editor, “ I have no doubt that you
are very well qualified to speak with authority on
Australian affairs, and to write up your copy
attractively. But really, England doesn’t care a
ha’penny about Australia or anything that hap-
pens there. Consequently, I don’t think there
will be much scope for your ability as far as we
are concerned.” Morrison thus learned in two
minutes wbat it will take Australia years to learn.
SOME USE.
In view of the prevalence of dengue fever in all the
towns of Queensland Mr. Reid has been compelled, under
medical advice, to postpone his visit.
“ Golly! Bis dengue fever some lose, after all.”
Mr. Hugh R. Reid, the brother of Yes-
No, is fond of telling how he and Tommy Bent
wielded the willow together in a Melbourne
cricket club. At the opening of the club’s
ground, the first ball was bowled by George
Turner, Bent wielding the bat. The ball struck
Thomas on his Tory policy ; at the second, he
made a wild swipe, but did not succeed in holding
on to his bat as tightly as he does to office, as it
nearly killed a constituent near by.
A contributor to a recent Melbourne
Argus says that Andersoi Inlet was named
after a south-west Gippsland squatter. The
discoverer, in ’39, was the late Samuel Anderson,
of Western port, who died in ’62, aged 60. In
early life he was a member of the staff of London
Times. Samuel Anderson also discovered the
Tarwin river, mountain limestone at Cape Lip-
trap, and coal at Cape Paterson.
Of the N.S.W. politicians who participated
in the three Conventions which led up to Federa-
tion W. iVl'Millan is the sole survivor. He
appeared with Parlies in Melbourne in 1890, with
Parlies, Abbott, Dibbs, W. H. Suttor, Barton and
Jennings in Sydney in 1891, and with nine, who
still survive, in Adelaide in 1897. Of the seven
N.S.W. men who sat in the Convention of 1891
only two are alive ; the ten who sat in 1897 are all
on deck.
T. H. BOURKE, of Tasmania , Amateur
Champion Sculler of the Commonwealth.
Photo, by Wiley.
All Australians are not born tired. A.
sample of splendid energy is the correspondent
who writes from North Queensland :
Neither of my parents could read or write, and they had
a dead set against those who could. They brought me-
up in total ignorance. When I should have been going
to school I was acting as scarecrow to keep the cockatoos
off the wheat, and when I reached 12 years of age I was
promoted to the pig-minding industry. At this time I met a
neighbor’s boy, who taught me the alphabet—all he knew
himself. The following year we went to the Lachlan district.
At this time bushrangers were very rife all over the South-
ern part of N.S.W., and everybody was anxious to hear
of their doings, but not two men out of every ten could
read the papers. Those who could, used to read out the
news to a little crowd of people who stood or sat around
with their mouths open at the doings of Johnny O’Malley,
Dunn, or Gilbert. Gardiner was captured at this time.
Also, Bertrand, the murder of Kinder, was just then on
his trial, which made me very anxious to learn to read.
We hadn’t a book of any kind except a prayer-book, and
I often stole away to an old shepherd to get a lesson. He
had no books either, but he taught me to spell words of
three letters. Next, an old travelling schoolmaster, who
stopped at our place one night, made me a present of an
ABC book which I had to keep concealed, as my father
would have flogged me and confiscated the book if he
had seen it. With the aid of an old knock-about hand I
mastered it, and one day I found “ Sinbad the Sailor "
and an old torn copy of “Robinson Crusoe,” and these I
read and read until I wore them out. After that I could
struggle through the newspapers, and after 12 months’
practice I ventured to read-out in public. A neighboring
squatter’s wife offered to take me and pay for my educa-
tion, but my father told her that I was becoming useful
to him now and he could not spare me. The fact was
that he was prejudiced against education, and thus he
lost me the chance of my life. The following year the
Weddin Mountain rush took place, and I helped to take a
mob of cattle there. I became fascinated with the life,
and I returned to it again after going home. I was very
lucky on the One-Mile and the Quandong, where I worked
all day and studied half the night. When I was leaving
Grenfell I sold £6O worth of books for £5. Since those
days I have read Plutarch, Homer, Shakspeare, Byron,
and the history of nearly all the world. I have studied
the first four books of Euclid, and read nearly all the stan-
dard novels, both ancient and modern ; and now I am
going to try and learn to write articles.
Seems as if the motor ’bus would solve the
Adelaide tram business. Why doesn’t Adelaide
Council promptly set going a motor ’bus service ?
“ Red hair is either loved or loathed. Its
admirers are almost hysterically enthusiastic, and
the artists call it golden, though it is not truly of
that shade. A red-haired woman is always sure of
attention, no matter how plain her face or insig-
nificant her figure. For those who dislike red
hair say it is a sign of bad temper, or of immor-
ality, or of both. So they will watch the red-
haired woman in order to convict her.” — Helen
Forbes.


Hotel
Australia
BATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
J, URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
FALIERES’ PHCSPHATINE
A Valuable adjunct to Infantile Dietary.
Barents who would rear Strong Children, and OTOla
the troubles incidental to Teething should use it#
fKGSJWATMfe
TMWS
&
FOOD FOR INFANTS & INVALIDS
Au Chshists AM QMOMt,
Aboriginalities.
“ Lak ” : Re strange meats. In New
Guinea once, out of curiosity, I tried infant croco-
dile. Resembled chicken in appearance and taste,
but was a trifle tough. The natives eat the adult
“ croc.”—impossible to a white man’s “ tummy.”
AN IMPLICATION.
MRS. MARGERINE (after a few neighborly
words): “An’ I’d have yer know, Mrs.
Mangles, that me husband is so well thought
on as he takes the plate round in church.”
MRS. MANGLES (in disdain): “ I’m well aware
of it, mum. Which you wouldn’t be able to
put on such style if he didn’t.”
“M. 8.” : “P.M.’s” amateur vet. friend
(B. 27/4/’O5) is wrong about the warts on the inner
side of horse’s legs being scars of pre-natal “ liga-
tures” (ligaments he means). Scars contract as
they grow older, but these excrescences are con-
tinually growing and being shed. They are com-
posed of the secretion of a modified scent gland,
which has a strong musky odor. Somewhat simi-
lar glands are seen on the leg of the pig.
“Stranger” : Those warts on inner side
of horses’legs B. 27/4/’O5) are vestigial
remnants of the great toe which was present in the
protohippus—the palaeontological ancestor of the
horse. The hoof of the present-day horse is the
specialised middle toe of the ancestor aforesaid.
“ Gymp ” : Re “P.M.’s” inquiry about
warts on the inner side of horses legs. These are
what are called “caps,” and are joined at the
roots to two tubes, which draw the oil to and fro
through the shin bone. If these scales are cut or
torn, and not looked after, weakness of the knee-
joint will follow.
* # *
“ D.R.” : Re that snake-bitten filly
(“P.Q.F.,” B. 4/5/’O5). It is remarkable that
nearly all domesticated animals, when moribund,
seek human company. In Walgett (N.S.W.), not
long since, there was great mortality amongst
horses, and almost every afflicted animal wandered
into the town and tried to get into dwellings.
Three or four had to be shot by the police. Dogs,
too, when poisoned, always come home to die, and
a kangaroo-hunter’s dog that gets mortally
wounded in battle generally crawls to his master’s
camp before he surrenders the ghost.
“ W.M.F.”: Re snake-bitten filly (“ P. Q. F.,
4/5/’O5). Once knew a horse staked in the fetlock
and suffering from tetanus take possession of a
tent, frightening the women and children who
occupied it, almost to death. Getting no help
there, he raced a quarter-mile to a hut. Found no
one there, he did a half-mile to a corner of the
paddock, whence he could see the homestead.
Still getting no aid —poor brute was past it—
started back for the tent, and died on the way.
Have also known sick sheep and other animals
enter houses. Fact is, many sick animals instinc-
tively turn to man for aid.
* * * *
When the police are carting niggers long
distances in Kimberley (W.A.), they feed them
on flour-and-water, boiled and flavored with black
pepper. This pleasing mixture is known as “Hell-
in-a-billy.”
* • * *
“ S.M.W.” : Once saw an emu, when
threatened by an eagle, throw itself on its back,
and remain in that effective kicking posture until it
thoughtit safe to sprint a bit further towards shelter.
As more eagles soon came along the alternate sprint
and drop became very quick and lively, but the
emu eventually reached the shelter of the scrub.
Another time I saw an emu caught by a kangaroo-
dog, which ran alongside and grabbed it by the
neck. Nothing so utterly helpless as that emu
was ever seen —it stood perfectly still while the
dog tore its neck. Almost looked as if the poor
bird was enjoying the treatment.
Have you got a thorough chill,
Goose all over, really ill;
Wheezing, sneezing, shrill and high,
Furry tongue, and watery eye ;
Oblivious to the world’s affairs,
All its sorrows, pleasures, cares,
Useless suffering, why endure ?
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“Prooshan”
on aboriginal
trial by com-
bat :
Forty - eight
years ago a fine
young black of
the Tappitilla
tribe named Sam
Condywight
worked for a
farmer named
Livingstone at
Broughton Creek
(Berry, N.S. W.),
where old King
Tappatilla flaun-
ted his cherished
copper crescent
of royalty. Sam
stood 6ft., and
was a fine, manly
fellow. He and
one Billy Dixon, a
half - caste, were
rivals, and Julia,
the dusky object
of their affec-
tions, surren-
dered to the
streak of pipeclay
in Billy. One day
Sam was inform-
ed in the potato
field that Julia
and Billy had
bolted. Bending
the welkin with
a yell, Sam sprang
off to hisgunyah,
and, arming him-
self with spear,
nulla, and shield,
he rushed after
the absconders,
who, however,
eluded him.
Next day he re-
turned, looking,
as the boys
thought, fit to
leave alone. In a
week he jibbed
on work and went
off to Jamberoo
on a “jamboree.”
A few days later
Dixon returned from
his “ honeycomb,” bor-
rowed a huge horse-pistol, and
proceeded in the direction of Jam-
beroo also. In a week’s time Sam’s dead
body was found behind a log near the Seven Mile
Bsaoh, and although the authorities took no action,
Sxm’s relatives took Billy, and he was tried in abori-
ginal fashion and taken to the scene of the murder,
where he was bound by the waist to a post. A
shield was allowed him, and then two of the deceased’s
male relatives were informed that they might throw seven
spears at him. If he withstood all seven he was adjudged
innocent, and, upon his receiving the first wound, was to
b 3 set free. Two of Oondywight’s sisters were allowed to
lie at accused’s feet and' rap his shins with yam sticks
whenever a spear was hurled, to divert his attention.
The spears were thrown with accuracy, but Dixon stopped
four. Then Sam’s sisters hit his shins extra hard, and
the fifth spear pierced his shoulder. After that the
ordeal was over. Dixon recovered and bore his Julia
beyond the reach of the Condywights.
* * * *
A wild pig, with a fleece similar to that of
the Lincoln sheep, was shot in Hawkes Bay
(M.L.), the other day. Its skin is furnishing
material for debate amongst the scientific moles
pf various dry-as-dust institutes.
THE TRAVELLED NEW-CHUM AGAIN.
THE JOHNNIE (shown a small nugget): “And is it weally gold,
mg good fuf-fellow? I dud-don’t see the hall-mark,
don’ tcherknow.”
‘ ‘Pag”: Be water-finding (“Tip,” B. 4/5/’O5),
I know a place on the Barwon where thousands of
pounds have been sunk in wells, which at most
have yielded a bucketful or two of salt stuff. A
water-finder went to work with a twig and traced
a line for miles, and wells sunk anywhere along
this give good water. Also, at a place on the
Upper Hunter, wells had persistently failed ; but
on the owner following the directions of a water-
finder, he sank 80ft. (last 20 through solid rock)
and struck a splendid supply.
* * *■ *
“ Page : ” Be animal suicide (“ G.8.P.,”
B. 4/5/’O5) : Had a stiff job once trying to prevent
a horse from ending his days. Our 3-horse dray,
loaded with wool-packs, was crossing some flooded
§ round, and got bogged. The shatter—a vicious
rute —lay down and tried for a solid hour to
“ beat me ” for his head. Every time his napper
was yanked up out of the water —once or twice
when he was pretty far gone—he would grunt
savagely and try again.
“ : A parson recently stopped at
a rough bush shanty, and was entertained with the
inevitable s ilt-horse and damper. “ Haven’t you
any vegetables or pickles ? ” he quietly asked one
of the boys when the chance offered. “ No,” was
the answer ; and presently the horrified parson
heard the lad say, sotto voce, to his brother:
“ The blanker thinks it’s Christmas !”
* * * *
“ C.X.Gr.” : Bill had seen a jibbing buggy-
horse induced to pull by fastening his tail to the
vehicle; so next time he w r ent out for a load of
wood, when the old horse stopped on the home-
ward journey, Bill hitched him on by the tail to
the dray. But, unfortunately, he didn’t take into
account the difference in weight between a buggy
and a heavy dray with a load of wood on. The
old horse pulled his best, and after an heroic
struggle, the cable parted ; unfortunately at the
horse end. Next day Bill had an opportunity to
sell his horse, but when he produced the poor old
moke minus a tail, the deal was off, the buyer re-
marking that he did not mind a cob, “ but
this was cutting it a bit too fine.”
• * * *
“H. J.L.” gives an interesting bit of
personal experience:—
It was when I was beche-de-mer gathering at Flinders
Island (N.Q.). An aboriginal young man wanted a wife,
and he interviewed the chosen one’s father, who put on
full war paint. The prospective bridegroom, also fully
armed, stood facing him, about 200 ft. off, and seemed to
poke borak at future pa-in-law, who pretended to get
wild, and suddenly launched at him a fighting spear
(stingaree-tipped), which the aspirant smartly parried
with spear and woomera. Other members of the family
then had a shy at him, in vain, and one of the nigs told
me that “ bin draw-em blood, no more catchem Mary"
(betrothal busted). Next ceremony took place at night.
Bride lying quiet behind a screen, in front of which
were posted two bodies of aborigines in full corroboree
costume—bride and bridegroom’s respective relatives—
who were going through some awful contortions, when
suddenly out of the darkness rushed the bridegroom and
his brother and seized the bride, who fought like a fiend,
using nails and teeth freely on carcase of proposed loving
husband, whilst the united camp howled like Hell let
loose, and the corroboree crowd engaged in tierce mimic
warfare till mother-in-law appeared, armed with a healthy
waddy. Son-in-law (a fine powerful nigger) meekly bent
his head while 111 a smote him a real “ deather,” making
the blood stream from his pate. But he merely swayed,
shook his head, and took two more awful swipes from
bride’s sisters. Then he and his brother gave a trium-
phant yell, and fled into the night with the bride. Next
morning I asked the n gs why the bridegroom let ma-in-
law smash him without retaliation, and they said,
“Sposem bin get wild and fight, no more catchem Mary."
“L.H.” : Mound-builders do not directly
assist their chicks to escape from the mound after
hatching, but the parent birds keep near the nest
during the incubation and daily scratch over the
surface of the hotbed of rotten vegetation to pre-
vent it caking. This admits the air necessary to
incubation, and also renders the hatched chicks’
egress easy. The experiment has been made of
covering a nest with wire-netting, to prevent
access of the parents, and the result was—no
chickens.
“ J.T.8.” : No need to go so far afield as
some Bulletin correspondents have travelled in
search of the derivation of the term “barracker.”
I well remember its origin in the angry application
of the designation by one footballer to another,
who belonged to a rough lot that used to play on
the waste ground behind the Victoria Barracks,
St. Kilda road, Melbourne. The word cannot be
found in any football report before that time.
“M.Gr.” : My old father
pioneered the Wimmera 50
years ago, and tells a tale of
native cats in millions. They
came up out of the cracks in
the earth, they fell into the
house water-casks in the night,
and crawled out in the morn-
ing over the dead bodies of
drowned companions. Twice
the old man hung his mutton
(a whole sheep) under his
verandah to cool, and found in
the morning bones (the eats
having climbed up the veran-
dah posts, and sprung from
them to the carcase). Out
of a waterhole at the end of
the house he took one morning
ten cats, next day thirteen,
next day nine, and so on,
while the plague lasted. They
ate everything before them,
and the forward ones starved
the hinder right out, so that
the smell of “dead cat ” be-
came almost unendurable.
Teams hardly dared camp, as
the cats would be up on the
loads before the horses were
unharnessed, tearing into
everything eatable their claws
could reach, and eating every-
thing not in cases or tins.
Coming down from the home-
stead once my father stopped
at the men’s hut. The cook
was sitting in the doorway
with a big milk-dish full of
chopped suet on his knee.
“See me feed my chickens,”
he said as he scattered the
mince about. Before the dish
was empty the cats were
swarming. The earth seemed
to open and vomit cats. There
were hundreds dead in the
morning. The suet had been mixed with arsenic.
* * * *
“ R.” :Be star-seeing by daylight. No
mention made hitherto in B. of seeing stars from
the bottom of a 90-foot well. Does the well-shaft
act as a kind of telescope, or a sight-concentrator.
[The well-shaft simply shuts off nearly all the
daylight, which keeps the stars invisible.]
A WORD FOR THE COCKATOO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, you boundary-riding rhymesters, working poets of
the station,
And you droving, shearing singers of the road and of
romance,
Won’t you let your glance indifferent wander where that
cultivation
Breaks the deadness of your paddocks ? Give the cockatoo
a chance!
When you sing of breaking bullocks, brumby-chasing in
the ranges ;
When you stock-horse, range, and paddocks with such
memories endow —
Won't you spare a little notice for the man who’s making
changes
On your timber-covered hillsides with the horse that
draws the plough ?
Early morning—before daybreak, ere the jovial kooka-
burra
Wakes the stillness of the night-time with his, cookie-
calling cries—
Sees the draught and cuddy plough-team yoked and
standing in the furrow,
While the cockie eats his breakfast, waiting for the sun
to rise !
Midday smoke-oh 1 finds him spelling (in the garden
planting “praties”),
While his ill-matched pair of hat-racks gets its grass-and-
gum-leaves feed ;
And at night before the cockie goes to bed, however late,
he’s
Baking bread or boiling mutton to supply his next day’s
need.
Home, a bark-and-sapling humpy; logs for chairs and
slabs for table ;
Ceiling, just a piece of hessian ; bed, a hammock made of
sacks ;
Walls rough-papered with the Worker, or the Bully (if
he’s able —
Illustrations shed their brightness on a life that bright-
ness lacks);
Food an endless repetition—tea, rice, mutton, bread and
honey—
Same at breakfast, same at dinner, same at lunches, same
at tea ;
Nought to change the deadly dullness save when chance-
got ready money,
At the pub, oblivion offers in a drunken “ jamboree.”
Thus his daily round continues, lonely, toiling, monthly,
yearly.
In his timber-covered, bushfire-threatened, wilderness of
scrub,
Never troubled by events that shake the outer world, but
merely
Strike his ear as being mentioned by some “ skiter at the
pub ”;
Till the day comes when he’s missing from his usual
haunts; his neighbors
Note his absence from the shanty, or the howling of his
dog,
Take a ride to search his paddocks, find at last the
cookie’s labors,
Ended by the work he’d lived in—find him pinned
beneath a log.
Axe in hand and pipe half-empty, stretched beside his
work they find him,
With his body torn by dingoes and his eyes picked out by
crows ;
Not a soul to claim his kinship, not a mourner left behind
him —
Just a cockie killed bush-falling. How it happened no one
knows—
No one cares so very deeply. So he’s planted 'neath the
wattles
That had caused him many a swear-word in the struggling
years before ;
And they fence his grave with split-rails and a fringe of
empty bottles—
And the station buys the paddock to become the run once
more.
So, my boundary-riding poet, when, well-horsed, you
canter through the
Paddocks of the old selection, and the grave-rails come in
view,
Pay a passing tribute to the man who, given the horse,
could do the
“ Man from Snowy Biver ” business with the first and
best of you;
When you sing your virile verses of great horses and their
riders,
Of the racing, droving, station life that is Our Land’s
romance,
Try and spare a simple stanza for the cuddy-borne out-
siders,
Who are making homes from nothing—give the cockatoo
a chance!
VIC.
VARCHOEL.


Phosphates are
necessary to natural
nourishment and you
get them in
SALT
From Grocers and Stores.
Wholesale Agents '.-Harrison & Attwood, Sydney.
Solid Brass 6 inches high, 30/-
amdless clocks^
principle of which now show-
the Americans on the 1 . Tbey are Accurate.
5,1 They are Inexpensive. They
By aie 11 are in Solid Brass or Nickel.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Strictly Cash.
“Tonbur”
writes from
Kimberley :
Kimberley has
all the disadvan-
tages of the
tropics without
any of the advan-
tages. The so-
called “wet sea-
son ” has been a
failure this time,
and the sheep
and cattle men
are likely to have
a bad time. Un-
less you are
pouring on water
all the ti m e
nothing will
grow in Kim-
berley. Some of
the stations
maintain small
gardens by dint
of having niggers
continually
douching the
soil. Not a gar-
den of any kind
is to be seen in
D e r b y—not a
f'o.ver or a fruit-
t ree. The only
tree that grows
v. ell is baobab,
which reaches
sometimes 25ft.
in girth, but th«
timber (or, ra-
ther, pith) is
quite useless. I
have seen a
W,i nchester
bu'let go right
through one, at
]OO yards, and
kill a horse on
the other side.
Nothing will
ever be grown
in Kimberley,
except with an
enormously ex-
pensive irrigation
scheme, and the
place is a Sheol
of malaria, white
ants, scorpions,
centipedes, mos- .
quitoes and sand-flies. Yet men continue to be
allured here by reports of high wages. The country
is essentially a cattle-country and nothing else ; and, cut-
up and improved, would carry a good population. Now
one man or a syndicate owns half a country-side, and one
beast runs to 1000 acres. The almost unvarying diet in this
wearv country is canned stuff, with a tew onions and
potatoes occasionally. Here a man 25 looks at least
49 and grey and baid-headed at that. Kven the childien
appear old-fashioned and worried. Amusements and
relaxation there are none, except drinking fiery whisky.
The heat from November till April is broiling , and,
altogether, there’s no place out of Gehenna to compare
with Kimberley.
* * * *
“Eiddal”: “Kolonga” (B. 4/5/’O5) has
fallen down the wrong hole. Harvesters easily fill
85 bags daily, on even crop, round the Kyabrarna-
pootra fringe, and the bags are lifted off the
machine, and sewn , in the paddock. Only an
idiot would think of carting in unsewn bags of
grain. * * *
“ Vrai ” • Be ants dying to save their city
(“ Brandar,” B. 4/5/’O5). The case described was
probably merely a matter of being jammed m the
nest-entrance, but, for all that, indifference to in-
dividual safety in comparison with that of the
community is strongly characteristic of the
workers and the fighters of all the social hymo-
noptera.
* * *
“Jay Henn”: We were lying on our
bunks smoking, when Bill remarked that he had
no patience with
JOHN HIGGERSON.
nonagenerian, an old-
time jockey, who claims to
be the oldest living Aus-
tralian native. Mr. Hig-
gerson, until a gun acci-
dent invalided him a few
days ago, was still lead-
ing a strenuous life.
Photo, by Eden, Sydney.
men who were
scared of snakes
arid centipedes. “As
fer myself, when I
sees a snake or eny
other flamin’ insect,
I jes’ walk up an’
wipes it out with
ther first thing
’andy. Why, bli’me,
I’ve seen blokes go
fair barmy if a
flamin’ spider”
Here I noticed a
long red streak
creeping over Bill s
blanket, and shout-
ed: “Hi! look at
the big centipede
crawlin’ over you ! ”
Bill looked—drop-
ped his pipe—and
with a yell jumped
out of his bunk,
chucked his blankets
over me and the
candle, and, as he
dashed out of the
tent, bumped into
the ridge-pole and
brought the whole
concern on top of
me When I crawled out I found Bdl prancing
around in his shirt with a big sapling m ; his
hand. “ Struth,” he said, “if’r man ad art-
disease ’e wouldn’t live a flamin’ month in this
crimson country.”
* * * •
“J.T.G.”: A notable feature of the
jackass character that I have not seen mentioned
is the calmness with which he endures the perti-
nacious “ chiacking” of scores of smaller bush-
birds. His expression on such occasions is a
capital study in philosophic indifference.
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
CITY BARMAID (frigidly): “ We don't serve pints
of ale heah."
SWAGMAN (awed by his surroundings): “ Then
I'll take a quart.”
“F.R.W.” : A tame jackass which I had
for years, used to catch and eat sparrows. He had
one wing clipped, so he used to do the confidence-
trick by sidling gently up to a party of feeding
sparrows and then making a sudden dash at the
nearest. t .
“S.R.”: We boys respected the jackass
to the extent of never using a gun on him, but we
•practised freely on him with shanghais. But Jack
is a tough subject. With a new catapult and
leaden pellets I’ve slain a fair-sized hawk but
could do Jack no serious damage. When a dozen
or so of him would be ranged on a small branch,
holding an evening concert, we would send up a
pebble whizzing from a catapult. A sounding
whack from above, and over would go one of the
performers, drop a few feet, recover himself, and
fly to a distant tree. Then the ranks would close
up and the racket would start afresh; and this
would go on till the whole orchestra had been
shifted, one by one.
* * * *
“ M.L.” : In several M.L. dairying dis-
tricts I have dropped across the expression (used,
sav by a slighted lover), “She’s gone sour on
me.” Have wondered if it is of merely local
origin, and arises from the state of the milk after
a thunderstorm, or when it is troubled by senile
decay ?
The bullocky’s heaven must have bul-
locks in it, or there’ll be language. One of
him brought his whiskers into the township just
as the big mine had a clean up. Thebig director
was there—the man who owned about halt the
shares—and he passed while Wiljames was hold -
ingupa post at the pub. “Whiz, said James,
“if I had that bloke’s gilt, and a clippin team of
bullocks, by , l wouldn’t care for nobody !
* * * *
“ Ikey B.” : Duck shooting on the Darling
once I ran out of shot, and, coming across a
shanty, I asked the landlady if she could sell me a
pound. She brought me a heaped-up pannikin of
]No. G and explained that she hadn t a lb.-weight,
but knew that the pannikin held exactly a pound,
as she always weighed out Hour that way to swag-
men. There must have been a good 81b. of shot,
fit’s a curious example of the evil having rou-
tine ” knowledge of facts. Fancy the paralysing
effect on that woman’s natural intelligence caused
by the acquisition of the fact that a pannikin
held a pound of Hour !]
“Manuka”: Re the “slow” growth of
forest trees. In ’7B a kauri was measured-ldlt.
high and llin. in circumference. In 1904 the tree
wa°s about 40ft. high, and 23in. in circumference.
A totara, measured at same times, had increased
in circumference from sin. to 18in.
When other lips and other hearts
With flattering vows allure.
Remember that vour truest friend
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
When frosty stars gleam overhead
And earth’s in wintry moods,
And cold attacks in throat and head,
Then you’ll remember Woods. "
“ Alec Z.” : Re red-backed spiders I
have seen no mention of the fact that within
24 hours the bitten person develops a heavy cola
sweat. In my own case I had to discard the
sheets (upon which the sweat left a yellowish
stain) and roll myself in a blanket. I have known
several cases of spider-bite, and, personally, 1
would as soon be bitten by a black snake as ny
this venomous little creature.
“D.H.R.”: To “San Remo” (B. 27/4/’O5).
There is no record of recovery from effects of bite
of a death-adder—Old or young. As to never
knowing a dog to live more than ten minutes attex
being bitten by a tiger snake, I have known dogs
to survive three hours, and some to recover. Mos
dogs when snake-bitten rush for the nearest water,
remain in it for a considerable time, and often re-
cover. A man I know had two dogs bitten by the
same snake. Both had an aversion to water but
he caught one, and tied him neck-deep to a log.
This one recovered, after three hours immersion,
but the other, which couldn’t be caught died.
The blacks say that a human being may thus re-
cover from any snake-bite, except that of brown
or black snakes or death-adder.
* * * * n
“ V. 8.” : On Newstead Station (Invereli
district), some years ago, the little daughter of a
selector was bitten when playing near the house*
The mother killed two death-adders at the spot
(one 2ft. Gin. long), and then sent for the father,
who was working some distance away. Horses
had to be caught and harnessed and the chiia
taken 1G miles to Invereli for medical treatment.
She recovered, and is now grown up.
* * * * ,
“ Rollo ” • Re recovery after death-adder s
bite (“San Remo,” B. 24/4/’O5). I knew a man
(name herewith) who was in his youth bitten first
by a brown snake and then by a death-adder, y
recovered completely in #
“ j B ”• To “ San Remo’s ” inquiry about
death-adder bite (B. 27/4/’O5). Kangarooing near
Quirindi (N.S.W.), some years back my mate was
bitten on the third finger of his left hand by a full-
grown adder. He immediately placed the finger
over the muzzle of his rifle and blew it off. Walked
three miles to camp and drove lo to the doctor,
and next day was out of danger, owing, doubtless,
to prompt action.
* * * *
“H.J.H.”: I knew a one-armed Malay
who used to make a living turning over hawksbill
turtle on sandbanks on the N E. coast of Queens-
land. He had a 22ft. cutter, and his only mate was a
terrier, which he had trained to hang on
to light ropes. The dog used also to watch at
night for incoming turtle. Small ones he would
turn over himself, but when a big fellow came
along he would bring his master. I badly wanted
to steal that dog,, but the Malay was a lot too
handy with his knife.
JAMES A. CRISP, a young Sydney artist, who
is going to try his luck in America.
“ ” : “ No,” said the old battler,
“ I don’t believe in assays-give me a dish and a
drop of water. I had an assay raade once that
cured me. I was getting a bit, but the Chows
fime (it was up at the Crocodile), so 1 tried
reetin° At that time the Queensland Govern-
ment did assays. That was to encourage the great
miiiino- industry—the wonderful resources wanted
shakino- up a bit, as MTlwraith had a 10-million
loan in°the*air. I used to send samples in pretty
re or ’lar, with results that surprised me. Mullock
(which I sent when I was smelling a rat) beat
Mount Morgan. So, to clear matters up one way
or the other, I collared the one bit ofbedroom
crockery left—no, it wasn’t the jug—dollied it up,
and do’wii it weni t„ Brisbane. K«u te. some
weights. This put my pot on. Still, 1 often
wondered where that clay come from.
- Pocre’y ” : Shark’s Bay (W.A.) is divided
into two parts by Peron peninsula, m no place of
Greater width than 20 miles. On the Eastern
shore of the peninsula the shags, a species o
cormorant, build their nests in the low mangrove
trees and lay their eggs in April. On the
Western shore the same species of birds do not
build until August, and their nests are not in
trees but on the ground amongst the rocks
Seems rather extraordinary that the same kmd of
birds only 20 miles apart, should differ so con-
siderably in these particulars.
A certain effect of bad drinking-water is
bowel trouble — Wolfe’s Schnapps will keep the
bowels in perfect order. Caution. —1 here is no
genuine aromatic schnapps but W olfk s. Call
it by its full name.*
Mr. J. N. FRENCH, Evangelist, Palestine,
of mine contracted PNEUMONIA. No
nhvsician being' within reach, he was treated with Wine s
Expectorant, and has the best reason for believing that
THIS MEDICINE SAVED HIS LIFE. *
There was a time when the man who was going
• f ldintnfrnnhv either as a pastime or a means of
livelihood, was worried whether he should go to the Baker
and Rouse Proprietary, or to Kodak, Limited. Lach
establishment, had attractions that were to be found m no
other and were not common to both. Intending pur-
chasers M-e no longer called upon to wrestle with such a
problem? Kodak,'Limited, and the Baker and Rouse Pro-
urietarv Limited, are now amalgamated, and the best
features’of both establishments are to be found under the
same roofs. Two of the finest shops in Sydney and Mel-
bourne hold the combined firm’s large and vaned stoc ~
which includes such specialities as the goods of the
■Rochester Optical Co., the Century Camera Co., the Blau
Camera Co., the Seed Dry Plate Co., and many others.
Tn addition to importing the best foreign-made goods, the
firm runs a factory of its own at Abbotsford, in Victoria,
for the production of the favorite Pearl and other bromide
Papers and mounts of every description ; and the Aus-
tralian-made goods, fresh from the factory, can be relied
upon to give ssxtisfaction every time.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, udiether sent by post or handed m; and m
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
S. Pearson (sec. Anti-opium Committee, M.L.):
Ao-ree that Britain ought to be ashamed of herself over
the Chinese opium business. But don’t get hysterica
and call it “ the blot on good Victoria’s reign.” If in that
time Britain fastened opium on to only one co " n j ry ! l
fastened rum on to a score. And the period ended with
the Chow (opium and all) being fastened on to another.
Galvo: Would you like The Bulletin, then, to drop
verse altogether, and print statistics in those columns f
The paper is not run exclusively for the long-haired fol ,
nor yet exclusively for the long-headed f01k....1v1‘ b. .
Your “ Hell ”is long-drawn out and wearisome. That is
probably what Ilell should be, but we like om- bheol
turf his business, and of course beats the flats. Nrmit
sionally get a tip from the stable. You might, l indeed,
become a levi.Jhan among But
wffi' «S «£<l »»'«'•/■••
Whisky P : : Appe.red in Bin,™„ ot
n n m -f nrfnt'the'references to ourselves... .Orion :
nsr&-ss&i!?>x&
Maori legend.... A. E. V. : Hardly above doggerel-1eve1 ....
Carl I. Destroyed accordingly... .Lucian 0... Too
discursive Phil Random: Slenderly
preachy rthur W • Good, but twice as long aa
B al e ver uses .' Cosmos': (1) It’s hardly possible to call
±Z fhe r o aIS
/y\ yes The Bulletin may be defined as libeial tn re l
but has no jibbing horses
nfev a B 'stbL rising item is an old Bulletin yarn-
Not much g ht H GLL.: TooWallt
hog wash... iM.. T £ sub - ect mat t er p00r.....
Waid^"Four-in-Hand Bill” drives his coach 0,1 fco °
_ l-.-noir Wasn * But you’ve mislaid your sting... .Lena
f n ' a 'Town'” doesn’t read convincingly. Not hope-
of the conquered” says the sa, * ? A^ hin Vai C ara Same
amh .“Rondeau wants emotion laicara .
and more of it. We meet too many people say-
to youis, and more u . .. Westminster” not up
wSS'B (MdSVet all right;
.... VV. .Or. LI. • u ir n .: n(r ” scarcely interest enough
nothing m octave. Moin * £ I r) n r . w e admire your
... .Alpha : Pretty album verse. .DC. we mu y
rj; ter ,s ass w-» ”i:r len ‘
Sw, us 5s
ponderating) that the a " imal o^ a f I . be^ h e fch r e e' pars were
heavily in Jack’s favor... .W.B.M. . bacKsvvi #
1 . . ' po T • Doesn’t tret into front rank.... Hamer .
pars and send to accountant with full name and addi ess ....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
days.


<rjxt u /yx'X/y^
2&L4yLM xy# y&yy jXx € r /X'h.<i .
JLaX'
? &umvLt^£
’if $lA
yi xx -4 x-jtX
y --/' yi y&cts. jgk
' V r /
aJ*y>ty6f~ ** ChCrt<S
ajJI& «y*«~*
P* . %g\
/%s<,
&y/u«L ~7#z
v dsui.
’ / jf JUfuJ P>yfiM < xZ^-iA^tX
| ' |. I y$~ A i." " (ZL^Ptsi...<?<**-jf //<-**--
f <rrdM* <y£ccr*~j3 2iyt£oA~ fast*/, /^~-~JL
7#T n //
AaJ" fa /] |
\V ■ MMEN^M
xC y/£y*~^.
—~y/fo /6
. *4 ' "r-"»%»
'" ""'■"""' '>'/,- ;wv'v' */.: * .!; ''; - « "- ' /V
A GUIDE TO TORY WOMEN.
Mr. G. H. Reid warns his Tory female supporters that they must not attempt any kid-glove airs or they will ruin his cause.
"Hop." offers these few hints.


Tfc Kwa m ] l
Mwi
jifionjtfs SW> „
‘Second cUSS u T[ or,T is <
in futiin.
A c coVnfc>
for ije. A'ty&teffrpt£
of-"% Grew , /
ty
S®! 9
-Hodge - /
In life Electoral
Stijcnrc 'tfje CounrTv ekc+o -
£T/en 4 rnerwtcr
''Jo QyGY-1 2tyy(o
*ls®
"fiov/ri*, only I ”*o
evei-y 32i'3f.
?£
Mv tw. unijotn s(|oos1"
■fits'Vo** life>r foftr orj
At vill! git" , ol l)
ZTTZ_ yCK. WOH)4,"
" e S c*b«
out- \\e* « r <?y» :
mm
Tfjc SWe - There now Ive
bri doe j, Sec<A
(H-frec. it. JU: 'VtTow “W>»S f .— 7
J 9 is you'd liKe
I Spoonfed |)fes ! ~ \>ut~ if in
tny rrjoutfj' . I
1 Premier M C •
t Ko individual would puT-forti) b'>
- efforts if b G ew he
To divide ttjc
fwir s of bis labour
( witfj every idler"
/ in
COtrjrrjt)hity!^f
• Of**' Scot"! J'F
% H#* * *•» r
re !" e s ~
'OH.'no Ih<yr« ohiy ']«*•»»•“
ft\tnno (T -jew
Jom &fiT /
If)*.n
hiftM'! - *
If Ifc lord Kt*yor(neiy M h'S w ’*/
cgKiWav R a *•-> /* r * Se * Woo,d
be
(ou/age i -
l Sets ,
% Wfn
“1+ U UrjcUvstoocl tfof* in
interest* of Uje 'Purify of 'Orrje"
%L Wimnjen* li^s
0$ *flje request"”of %* Pvfy|
.faafcljed ftb row between
•fyt Kiw oV J< h>* 4'v'orcecl
Yfift ’
I |re**>*e»' M‘!**>’•""
I ‘ H c
‘dltC'f'i#') jW\s nc -^
■fto ," £:>
\
( la)oi/r :—. 7 0U
/ U G«vner! - Iff*F meA«S'tff*r
■youvc go-r 'to "tori 'to frworK
well "7® !
Much obboytion
hU*« 4*i"K"»S J V*S>uttHe
%*■ §««**
dY**t% Z'wio «l»
olßer
CONCERNING CLOTHES. AND OTHER SUBJECTS.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS
SUITABLE
SUGGESTIONS IN
TABLE SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral Dalton China
BISCUIT BARREL, 20s.
Other Styles, 15s Gd, 17s Gd,
22s 6d, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
—<s'3 r
/\, SAUNDERS.
BUTTEII DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Cut Glass, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s Od, 12s Od,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRICE LIST FOR SPOONS AND FORKS.
A QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 20s Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 20s Ilalf-Doz.
Table Spoons, 15s Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 15s llalf-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 10s llalf-Doz.
B QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 12s 6d Ilalf-Doz.
Table Forks, 12s Cd Han-Doz.
Table Spoons, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d llalf-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 6s 6d Half-Doz.
C QUALITY.
Table Spoons, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 10s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Spoons, 7s 6d Half-Doz.
Table Forks, 7s 6d Hidf-Doz.
Tea Spoons, 5s Half-Doz'.
IN THREE DESIGNS —FIDDLE, OLD ENGLISH. AND KING.
Our Spoons and Forks are well made and beautifully finished
They arc absolutely the best made in England, and will wear a lifetime.
Mm
m
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Rainbow Glass. 20s.
Other Styles, 8s Gd, 10s GJ.
12s Gd, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Corinthian Column
CANDLESTICK,
Pure Silver-Plated.
(>in. high,lss (id each.
Other Styles,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD AND WAITER Combined, Pure Silver-
Plated on Nickel Silver, with KNIFE to Match,
£2 10s. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, £2 ss, £3.
Our Catalogue
Contains over 1500
Illustrations o£
Watches, Clocks.
Jewellery, Silver-Plate,
Purses, and Optical Goods,
Write for it now.
We send it to any Address
In Australia
Post Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
HONEY JAR, Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s Cd, 10s 6d,
12s Cd.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DOUBLE INKSTAND, Cut, Glass
Bottles, Pure Silver-Plated, £2 5s Other Styles,
17s 6d, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Splendid Timekeper, 20s.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s Cd, 255.
Our Prices
Consistent with the
Best Quality,
are Low. Why?
As Direct Importers
and large Cash Buyers,
We sell direct to
Our Customers,
Thus saving them all
Middlemen’s Profits.
Are the Lowest
M
A. SAUNDERS.
SET OF CARVERS, Best Sheffield Silver Steel,
Hand Finished, Securely Riveted Handles,
27s (id.
Other Styles, 12s Cd, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated
11 in. Oval, Special Value, £2 ss.
£3 ss, £3 10s.
on Nickel Silver,
Other Styles, £3
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure
Silver Plated,
Handsomely Engraved, 255.
Other Styles, 16s 6d, 20s.
30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
pure Silver-Plated AFTERNOON TEA
AND TONGS, Fancy Embossed Handles.
Solid Silver, 30s, 355, 40s.
SPOONS
, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
AiMn UOFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved, Fern Design, Gilt Lined, comprising Four
Pieces* made expressly for us by James Dixon and Sons,,. £5. Other Styles, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6, £7, £lO 10s, to
1
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed,
Cake Basket, Sugar and Cream Combined, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER OR MILK JUG,
Pure Silver-Plated, 355.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME, Pure Silver-Plated,
Beautifully Fluted, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 21s, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR BOTTLE LUNCH OR DINNER
CRUET, Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 21s, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE OR FRUIT BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, £2 ss. Other Styles, £2 10s, £3
£3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
4in. high, in Four Styles,
15s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTERDISH, Pure Silver-Plated
on Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, 12s 6dL
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, los,
17s 6d, 20s.
a?
Sydney
il I
i
ii
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-Mounted CUT GLASS
SALTS AND SPOONS,
in Silk-Lined Case, 12s Gd.
Heart Shaped, 13s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK Pure Silver-Plated,
Leaf Design, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
. •
A. SAUNDERS;
EGG AND TOAST RACK
COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Opal Glass FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure Silver-Plated Base, £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2, £2 ss, £3.
2 5
\ g&gi
A. SAUNDERS.
KNIFE RESTS, Cut Glass,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Larger, 15s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR CUP EGG FRAME AND
SPOONS,
Pure Silver-Plated, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER AND TOAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated,
White Crystal Glass Lining, 15s 6d.
9 V. •
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POT, Pure Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved, £2.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, -Is,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS
SYDNEY S LEADING JEWELLER, v
*
SILVERSMITH, AND OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET.
Opposite
RAILWAY
STATION.


70.
2
4
%
*.
(V.
ft
N
VI
X^>
ffl
«S
jraS-yX-
v-' vx:
•1
w a ■
ssi
.' ' v ' ■-
'
■ :.
" . ':'?
'
.•
m
■ ;
x-
*
Specially Sketched for “The Bulletin ” /row Coaia «* Buclcley <fc .\unns.
The above costumes can be supplied to any part of Australasia, and patterns and self-measurement forms will be sent on application.
In ordering, send illustration and quote number. The costumes must be lead fiom left to rig i .
MOTOR, DRIVING, and TRAVELLING COATS.
. T 1 ~ ~, . , "ii ionotl, 48,‘n £5 15s 6d. :in Tweed, with Leather Collar and Belt and
««. B 6d W " K .° Ve 2 -« m S SiMSAiS Yote Strap's, back, Velvet on Collar and Cutis, price.Ml 1
S- Hacit and White Check Tweed,' lined silk. Leather Collar and Cults, *> 18.. 64- 3-In Black or Navy Serge, sleeves and bod,
lined silk, leather buttons, 955.; m colored tweeds, 98s. 6cl.
MOTOU VEILS in Silk and Chiffon, in all colons, 6s. lid. and 7s. lid. GOGGLES tor Motoring, and Tweed and other Caps in newest shapes.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED, Bourke Street, Melbourne.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I _ FAC| LE PRIIMCEPS. | ) SEMPER IDEM. I
BUCHANAN WHISKY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FBQ St. Martin, Paris, France.
sg
GrO TO HBLL-
IGOLANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER
74 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price-Lists gratis-
POLITICAL
POINTS
The dengue fever outbreak has frightened
Mr. G. H. Reid off his Queensland tour. There’s
a silver lining to every cloud.
From his latest speech, it would seem that
Mr. Deakin will not connive at the gross inter-
ference by the Reid Cabinet with the indepen-
dence of the High Court.
Westralian Government has decided to
re-cast the regulations dealing with the blacks
on the lines of Dr. Roth’s recommendations.
One of G. H. Reid’s metaphors : “I ob-
ject to a man putting himself in the position of a
machine and following a rule like a sheep-dog.”
That delightful old humorist, Melbourne
Argus
The enormous burden of a high tariff has not been able
to keep the United States back.
When the Argus sees smoke it knows better than
to guess fire ; it guesses a waterfall or an iceberg
straight off.
“Fool ” : Why immigration ? I can do 48
different kinds of work, but can’t get any. And
can’t get land either in Vic.
Premier Carruthers’ announced resolve to
stop the abuse for private pleasures of N.S.W.
Government steam launches counts to him for
righteousness. Some of the State steam launches
had become practically the private property of
various official persons.
“It is not Mr. Reid’s forte to say anything
very original, but what he does say is uttered
with the air of an oratorical Columbus.”—W. M.
Hughes.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers has, during
his Ministerial wanderings, .so far discovered
three Paradises, five Edens, and seven Gardens of
New South Wales. If he were also to be the
Columbus of a colonial Little Hades, it would
agreeably diversify the monotony of his slobber-
some eulogies.
THE GATHERING.
“I call upon the whole body of persons opposed to the
Socialistic Labor party to meet together against a com-
mon enemy.”—G. H. REID.
Significant sign of the trend of secular
opinion. The three candidates at the Wellington
(M.L.) by-election each answered “Nay” when
asked to support the Bible-in-schools movement.
Two (Hutchison and Fisher) were prohibitionists,
too.
Asked before N.S.W. Lands Commission if
he had ever seen the departmental papers iri~re
Sims’ leases, Mr. W. N. Willis replied : “ No, I
did not. I did not want to see them. What is
the good of papers to people who are starving?”
And the “starving people” in question had just
put up £6OO to try and get an easier title to 15,862
acres of land !
N.S.W. Parliament has been further pro-
rogued till June 13. What chance then of
dealing with the year’s estimates before the
expenditure is incurred?
Are there other odors about, only requir-
ing an opportunity to make themselves felt ? A
number of North Coast (N.S.W.) settlers want the
Justice Owen Lands Commission extended to the
forestry and mining departments.
‘ ‘ The wealth of this country can simulate
the pangs of poverty more successfully than even
the professional mendicant.”—G. H. Reid, in
N.S.W. Assembly (in defending his land taxa-
tion years ago). He doesn’t say things like that
now.
One of the Yankee trust tricks in trying to
cut out the local manufacturer is to buy a couple
of local machines at the full price and then hawk
them about the State at something much under.
And farmers “be sich fools ” as to believe that a
machine offered at less than the ordinary rates
must be bad. So they pass the local sort and go
to a Yankee brand —invoice price, £26 ; customs
valuation, £34; selling price, £9O.
The half-yearly returns from the State-
owned railways are the only items to cheer Q.
Treasurer Ividston in his revenue troubles. He
cannot understand how it is that there is a falling
off elsewhere while the railways indicate splendid
business.
The Mohawk and Archer, two late ships
of the Australian squadron, were recently sold in
London for £4850 apiece. Now seems probable
that we might have bought the whole late squad-
ron outright for an amount no higher than we
paid as one year’s naval subsidy. Is it the same
with our present “first line of defence ” ?
Even Maoriland’s comparatively high
tariff isn t sufficient, seemingly. Chairman of the
Kaiapoi (M.L.) Woollen Co. recently told a meet-
ing that local co.’s were quite incapable of com-
peting with the enormous quantities of shoddy
still coming in, and, to meet the demand for
shoddy garments, they had themselves to import
the shoddy.
M‘Kay, the big agricultural implement
manufacturer of Victoria, is pompously told by
the Argus that the great Harvester Trust of
America is a creature of Protection, and that it is
to be destroyed by lowering the CJ.S.A. tariff,
not by raising that of the Commonwealth. W 7 hat
the Argus shirks is the almighty fact that the
Trust is an omnivorous living thing, against which
Australia has to be protected. To argue as
the Melbourne Argus does is like trynw to
console the man in the alligator’s jaws with an
assurance that the animal should have died of
measles when it was a pup.
Still Yes-No. George Reid had said Yes
to the invitation to visit Queensland, and all
arrangements had been made to show him round.
Then, at the last moment, he wired No. And, by
a nasty trick of luck, the Yes-No is reported in
the same column of Sydney D.T., in which tne
complains of “the” horrid Yes-No title”
which has been given him.
The other Allan M‘Lean,
tootling his little “ anti-Socialistic ” toot at the
gaud Mayor’s quarterly feed in Melbourne, was
specially severe on “ the levelling down of
Socialism.” Contemplate the dead level, say, in
Railway Commissioner Tait’s salary of £3500 a
year, and the porter’s ss. 6d. a day. And the
railways represent Socialism, absolute Socialism.
Mr. Reid’s humor and logic (scraps from a
report of his Lismore meeting):—
Mr. Reid : The Socialist party
A Voice : The best party in the world.
Mr. Reid : That is all right. There are a few lunatics
about wherever I go. (Laughter.) I don’t mind meetino-
one occasionally, and I always humor them, because they
are dangerous. (Laughter.) Thanking my friend for the
great assistance be is giving me
The Voice : That's not argument.
Mr. Reid : Oh, I never argue with people in your state
of mind. (Laughter.) . . .
The Voice : You did what was right. i
Mr. Reid : Poor chap ! He will only get excited, and ;
then become more dangerous still. (Laughter.)
Then a sarcastic bishop got up and thanked Mr. i
Reid for his “intellectual treat.”
A resolution carried by the recent Vic.
State School Teachers’ con-
ference “ That the
scale of salaries be
a maximum of £2OO
for the fifth class
and £432 for the
first class ; and
that no certificated
teacher be paid
less than £llO per
year.” The de-
mand was unusu-
ally moderate, for
it is on the capa-
city, and wisdom,
of these men and
women that the
future of the coun-
try depends. But
how Bent will bellow
. at this request that the
teacher should have a minimum wage of £2 2s. 4d.
a week—less than the legal wage of a bootmaker
or a baker!
A Lismore (N.S.W.) speaker, Bishop
Doyle, explaining why they liked Reid
They all wished that Mr. Reid would come among- them
oftener. When he was there, years ago, he gave them
the fine bridge across the Tweed, and he had also loaned
the municipality of Lismore £lO,OOO without security.
(Laughter and cheers.) The pity was they had not pressed
him to forgive them the debt. (Laughter.)
Exactly. Mr. Reid is the man of concessions and
gifts—from the public purse. But as Federal
half-Prime Minister he can only give away post-
offices, and that limits bis powers of attraction
seriously.
Before the Sydney Lands Royal Commis-
sion Mr. W. N. Willis, beaten by 307 votes at
the State elections last July, stated that he
lost the Darling seat “ through people voting
three or four times on the same elector’s right.”
How was it, if this were so, that Mr. Willis did
not enter a protest? The popular impression is
that Mr. Willis was defeated through Mr. Sleath’s
failure to effectively split the Labor vote; Mr.
Sleath only polled 259.
Mr. Thomas Bent met an adverse audi-
ence at Prahran the other night, and Tommy is
seen and heard at his best when his audience is
casting gibes at his enormous bulge, and jeering at
his dray-horse intellect. On this occasion Tom-
bastes threw restraint to the wind, broke through
the thin skin of civilisation in which he sometimes
disguises himself, and ramped and roared like a
distracted savage. He bit, he glared, gave the
atmosphere awful blows, and rushed his speech
into the absurdest incoherency, tearing insanely
from one theme to another, and showering sen-
tences that had no proper beginning and were
never finished, but which were mainly splutter,
and barking, and abuse; and meanwhile he
sweated so that you could hear him slosh in his
boots as he cake-walked the platform in his foolish
anguish, and every time he threw up his half cwt.
of head he gave the chairman a shower-bath.
He darted at every subject tossed at him by the
hilarious crowd, like a terrier in a barrel of rats.
Bent was screaming that he had led as moral a
life as any man in the community ; and was
merging into a condition of dementia that threat-
ened apoplexy,, when the chairman intervened to
prevent fatalities, and eased him into a chair. It
was a weird example of the possibilities of a
democracy.
THE BAPTISM OF
AUSTRALIA.
“Of all the countries
of modern times Aus-
tralia was baptised with
liquor more than any
other.” —MR. DEAKIN, re-
cent speech.
It is announced that Maoriland Govern-
ment will, within the course of a few weeks,
acquire land in the Hutt-Petone district for the
establishment of workmen’s homes. The present
purpose is to lease the land at the rate of 9d. per
eighth of an acre, or Is. 6d. per quarter acre, but
it is probable the Government will house the
whole of the Petone (Government) workshops
employees, charging a rental commensurate with
a 5 per cent, return upon capital invested. The
extension of the principle to all workers in the
colony is merely a matter of time. Fat, who has
bought up all land near the cities suitable for
workmen’s homes, is already beginning to roar at
this gross infringement of the rights of private
enterprise.
A partner in the Sydney firm which
carried through the sale of Myall Creek estate to
the N.S.W. Government for closer settlement told
the Lands Commission last week that the com-
mission on the business amounted to £6715. Ex-
M.P. Willis’ little cheque was for £4232. That’s
the sort of thing the closer-settler is expected to
pay interest on ! And, apart from that, and out-
side this case altogether, what a lot of things may
happen when £5OOO cheques are in the air ! Even
a £lOOO cheque would cover a multitude of weak
spots in an estate offered for sale. That £6715
commission, which, of course, the selectors will
have to pay (or the general taxpayer, if the
selector can’t), amounts to 6715 good reasons for a
stiff graduated land tax.
One of the particular and
peculiar advantages of the Imperial
connection to Australia is in the
circumstance that the opinions of
any numbskull wandering from
this country become weighty, sig-
nificant, awe-inspiring and respect-
able when aired in London.
Some exasperated money-grub or
infuriated Conservative tick writes
to the Times that the tyranny of
Labor legislation is whipping the
Commonwealth to the dogs. The
Tory influence at the other end of
the cable seizes greedily on this,
and it is sent back to us with ail
the tremendous significance and
weight of Imperial recognition—
in the shape of the Times’ edi-
torial approval. Had the afore-
said grub or tick been restricted
to an Australian paper in criti-
cising Australian poliejq his words
would have been properly appreci-
ated as those of a dull, angry indi-
vidual, who imagines that his
country is crushed under an iron
heel every time his own corns are
trodden on. But we are blessed
with an Imperial connection, and it is not what he
knows about himself, but what his “mother
country ” is willing to think about him, that is
supposed to matter to the Australian.
N.S.W. Agent-General Coghlan reports
that Q. Agent-General Tozer’s Stinking-Fish yarn
in connection with the landing of his wife’s maid
is being widely spread in the English press
as an argument against Australia. Queens-
land Govt, should compel Tozer to eat the
leek without further delay. Where’s the sense in
the Govt, spending money to attract immigration
whilst its principal outside official is semi-officially
spreading a silly fiction which makes such
endeavors abortive ?
Vic. Premier Bent, in his recent Prahran
speech, when not uttering mad, meaningless
bovine noises, was flattering the female electors of
the Commonwealth with the finesse of a hippo-
potamus writing a billet-doux. “I trust to the
women,” he cried, “to stem this flood of Socialism,
of collectivism, of Yarrabankism.” But Bent
won’t give the women of Victoria a vote. Tommy
has said that his admiration of the women is
reciprocated, but he is evidently afraid that, if the
chance is given them, they will dissemble their
love to the extent of kicking him from the Trea-
sury benches.
G. H. Reid, in July, 1898 :
So far as the Labor party was concerned, although he
was not a member of it, he regarded it as one of the
greatest honors that had ever fallen to his lot in political
life to know that the Labor party found it consistent with
its public principles to give him a loyal support. He
could say to that great meeting that he was proud of his
connection with the Labor party. As an indication of his
gratitude for the support of that party during the last
four years, it would be noted that he had not allowed a
single candidate to go into the party’s electorates and
wear his colors in opposition.
And at that time one plank of N.S.W. Labor
party’s platform was: “The nationalisation of
land and the means of production, distribution,
and exchange.” Apparently George didn’t recog-
nise any “menace to the country” in the proposal
then.
There was a possibility in Victoria that
some of the working-women would vote against
the Labor party, owing, in some respect, to the
indiscretions of the party itself. But, wher-
ever the Female National Ass. has penetrated,
the result has been to thoroughly close up the
Labor ranks, and to ensure a fine, solid vote at
the coming elections. Nothing emphasises the
inequality of present social conditions better than
those meetings, where the society women gather
together and attempt clumsily to patronise their
social inferiors. It was a bright, warm day
indeed for the Labor party when the Tory
invented the Female National Ass.
JUST SO.
“ I’m going- to place myself right across the path of Socialism.”— REID.
The Anglican Synod and the Presbyterian
Assembly of Q. both sparred with the Kanaka
question last week. But after a few of the mis-
sionaries had beaten the air about the imaginary
cruelty and injustice of Kanaka deportation, both
bodies sheltered behind the gag of the “previous
question; ” it was pretty manifest that the
White Australia policy had a majority present.
I dreamt that I tossed on a fever’d bed
(With the curtains gather’d and drawn),
With a hacking cough and a burning head,
Vainly waiting the tardy dawn.
When close to my bedside an angel came,
With a phial of liquid pure,
And I read on the label a magic name—
It was Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*


I Royal
Accordeons
at Paling's.
We have the finest
selection in Australia of
these very popular instru-
ments. Prices are cut to
the lowest possible figure
at which a really first-
class article can be
supplied.
Catalogues and prices
are yours for the asking.
*
Paling'*s,
338 George St..
Sydney.
27
RoniscH
Pianos at
Paling'*s.
These emi-
nent Piano
make r s
were es-
tablished
in 1845-
Their In-
struments
have been
sold for 60
years with
great satis-
faction to
the buyer.
Catalogues Free.
***
Sole Agents**
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
58
Talking'
Machines
ctt Paling’s.
'. A S
We stock both kinds—
Disc and Cylinder Re-
cords.
*
Band Selections.
Songs by the world’s
leading artists.
Recitations by present
day orators.
Instrumental Selections
by the greatest soloists.
*
Our Disc records are
indestructible.
Reliable instruments at
Lowest Prices at
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Read what
VITADATIO
is doingf.
BLADDER TROUBLES
Cured By
VITADATIO
Read Mr. O’Connor’s Testimony.
Venetian, Kennedy-street
Glebe Point.
Bear Sir,— You will be glad to know of the cure your
medicine, Vltadatio has worked on me. About twelve
months ago I was attacked with inflammation of the
bladder. For eight months I was under the treatment of
three of the Sydney doctors, but their efforts failed to
cure me. In November last I commenced taking
Vitadatio, and in less than two months I was thoroughly
erred. I have had no trouble since then.
I trust this letter will be of use to you, and induce
others to try Vitadatio.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) S. W. O’CONNOR.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALMER,
Head Office: 439 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
This Elastic Truss
m?
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, madeof
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
AVe make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
And at Oor. Swanston and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
C. Stratmann’s *
Made on tiie
Premises
FINE....
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Da y-
SYDNEY, Next to. Lawson’s Auction Boom.
A SPLENDID
ARTICLE .
Only 21-
THE most useful article ever
introduced. It consists of
a beautifully-finished exquisite
PEN, PENCIL, and
FOLDING RUBBER
STAMP, with any name and
in any design, together with
self-inking pad. Stamp can
he used for stamping letters,
books, clothing, photographs,
etc. Order one NOW.
Don’t be without such a
useful article. Makes a good
present. Price 2/- posted
anywhere.
One buyer says: “Itis a
marvellous outfit for the
money. Send 3 more.”
RUBBER STAMP, with
your name, lOd .
Name
and
Address,
1/6.
OPEN{3i p ”
sgdg
IV* NOTHING BETTER ANYWHERE -gpqg.
\A. j. smith,
TOOWOOMBA,
QUEENSLAND.
FITS*EPILEPSY
ARE CURABLE BY
TRENCH’S REMEDY
Head Office : Dublin.
A few Typical Cases out of Many Cures.
A girl had fits in such rapid succession that she
€S HOURS was unable to take food or drink, and the
doctor who was attending her said she could
TO LIVE. not live more than 4S hours. Trench's Remedy
at once stopped the fits, and there has not been
a further attack since—over two-and-a-half years—and none
of the Remedy has been taken for over a year.
DECLARED TO
EE INCURABLE
A girl who had been at various times
under treatment by several of the leading
doctors of Melbourne was declared to be
incurable by them all, and the parents
were advised to place her in au asylum.
She took from ten to twenty fits a day, yet upon using
Trench’s Remedy the attacks ceased at once, and she has not
had a fit since—nearly three years. She ceased taking the
Remedy nearly two years ago.
£lOOO SPENT
WITHOUT RESULT.
The son of a leading merchant of
Melbourne broke down just as he wa*
commencing his University course.
All the best physicians of Melbourne
were consulted, but none of them
could stop the fits. The father then took the young man to
England and elsewhere to obtain the best advice in the world,
but. after spending over £lOOO, he brought him back wiih the
firs occurring more frequently than ever. Trench’s Remedy
at once stopped the attacks, and the-young man is now per-
fectly cured.
The above statements can be verified by personal reference
to the parents of the patients, who, from gratitude, hare
offered to reply to any enquirers we refer to them.
VALUABLE BOOKLET POST FREE FROM
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
359 and 361 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notices.
Statutory notice to Creditors
Re THOMAS CLARKE CHRISTMAS
DECEASED.
PURSUANT to the provisions of “The Trustees and
Executors Act of 1897 ” Notice is hereby given that
all creditors and other persons having any claims or
demands upon or against the estate of Thomas Clarke
Christmas late of Fortitude Valley Brisbane in the State
of Queensland Pianoforte Maker deceased and carrying on
business as a Music Dealer at Celtic Chambers George-
street Brisbane aforesaid who died at Brisbane aforesaid
on the second day of May 1905 leaving a will whereby he
appointed Annie Christmas of Fortitude Valley Brisbane
aforesaid widow sole executrix thereof are hereby required
to send in in writing particulars'of their debts or claims
to the executrix at her undermentioned address on or
before Saturday the tenth day of June 1905.
And notice is hereby also given that after that date the
said executrix will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased in Queensland among the parties entitled
thereto having regard only to the claim of which she shall
then have had notice and that she will not be liable for
the assets or any part thereof so distributed to any person
of whose debt or claim the said executrix shall not then
have had notice.
Dated this twelfth day of May 1905.
NICOL ROBINSON & FOX,
Solicitors for the said Executrix,
272 Queen-street, Brisbane.
JUST WHAT HAS BEEN WANTED.
A Good Practioal TYPEWRITER Low Cost.
We have it!!
śgd
The “Postal”
Price £6 15s. g with Oak Case, £7 tOs.
No business man, no matter in how small a way, should be without a Typewriter, Type-
written letters look well, are more impressive, and lead to business. Send for full particulars—
Post Free.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“MY OPTICIANS*-’
393 George St.* Sydney,
Sydney D. T. is not only unabashed and
unashamed at the severe reflections on its “stink-
ing fish ” policy,. contained in Acting Agent-
General Coghlan’s dispatch to Premier Carruthers,
but it has the green-hide hardihood to comment
smugly:
Australia has many unscrupulous critics in England,
against whose apersions its credit requires defence, and
there is undoubted need of some competent person to
take up the cudgels on its behalf.
The most “ unscrupulous critic” of Australia, and
the circulator of the most injurious aspersions on
Commonwealth “ credit ” and legislation has been,
and still is, the D.T.
Mrs. Gannon, who used to provide such com-
fortable quarters at Petty’s Hotel, Sydney, has, since
recuperating her health at her home-at Port Hacking,
taken over the well-known Grosvenor Hotel. The
Grosvenor has a fine site which, from the top of Church
Hill, looks down on harbor and suburbs on one side and
the heart of the city on the other.*
One interesting point of law was settled
bytheN.S.W. Full Court (4/5/’05) in the appeal
case of the Commissioners of Taxation against
Palmer and others, as to the rights of the Crown
as a creditor in bankruptcy. In this case the
Commissioners had proved for a debt in the ordi-
nary way in a bankrupt estate, and claimed
preference over all other creditors. But the
Judge in bankruptcy held, and the Full Court
supported his decision, that the Crown haying
taken advantage of the Bankruptcy Act placed
itself in the position of a subject, and lost its
inherent privileges thereby. This judgment,
however, does not affect the Crown’s right to sue,
by an old-fashioned process, by a “ writ of extent ”;
and it seems that any Crown debt so established
must be satisfied in full out of the estate of a
bankrupt before any other creditor can claim a
farthing.
All good smokers will be glad to hear that the
firm of Gallagher, Ltd., whose tobaccos beat the world’s
exhibits at St. Louis Exposition last year, and secured the
gold medal, are about to launch their leaf on the Aus-
tralian market. Gallagher’s is an independent Belfast
(Ireland) firm, and is not connected with any ring or trust. *
It was to have been expected that as soon
as Mr. G. H. Reid got into office, financial smells
would obtrude. Now transpired that one of the
first acts of the (who ought to have
taken a warning by theNeild case) was to appoint,
at £400 a year, an old familiar to write useless
articles to useless foreign papers about the Com-
monwealth. As State Premier, Mr. Reid first
appointed this gentleman to write articles about
the State. The See Government retired him
and appointed somebody else. The Carruthers
Government abolished the useless job. Now Mr.
Reid revives it for the Commonwealth !


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin-Screw Steamer.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafte:.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Freight, Passage Money, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'—'l’ll 15—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Bukns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Brucis Smith, K.C., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,514,795.
Policies issued 94,657 - assuring £28,394,068.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,267,019.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eouitably distributed.
Head Offioe:
*l9 ft 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. 12
Months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum. 2 Years
and over, at the rate of 4£ per cent, per annum.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT Ml). “
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175.812
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64,00 C
£697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., VV. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building's, Greorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,000,000
Tie Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets. |
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250.900 ... £350.000
OCEAIM
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Sbk, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jbssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, i). Clynb ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane. A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
, AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. 190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORIIOVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Managei
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,070,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,070,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humpiiery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq. A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
VV. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. VV. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughouo the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, vta BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 10th JUNE.
*PRINZ SICISMUND. 3300 tons.. Bth JULY.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. sth AUGUST.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ďsg
We Send on Approval
and guarantee safe delivery
Highest grade Cycles fully warranted.
ftludols cS2mloto^s“s‘o
Dunlop Tyres,Westwood Steel Rims,
Kree Wheels, Mud Guards, Brakes.
CARRIAGE PAID to any
art In Australasia.
Motor Cars and Motocycles
Tyres , Accessories , Sporting Goods &
'Sewing Machines Half Usual Prices.
■Write for Catalogs and Special Of-
fer using sufficient foreign postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 339 B
CHICAGO, U.S.A. and LIVEItFOOL, ENGLAND*
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
dsg
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
19th MAY,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, See. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCE A.KTIC S.S. Co. A.. and A.
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VEINITURA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY,
LIKTE’
MAY 29.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
PF* CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
The SUNNY*'
The “Moresby” is away
Cruise through the charm-
will sail on her second
her third on 7th Sept.
Pounds less than Ten
will send your address we
HINTS ” ; it will interest
details of the voyage.
BP" m
SOLOMONS
now on her first Winter
ing Southern Seas. She
cruise on 7th July, and
The fare is Twenty-five
Shillings a day. If you
will post you “HOLIDAY
you, and will give you the
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS
cs»
$
-dp-
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
ZKT-S.'W.
(Dost depeteOJnj.go.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74: CASTLEREACrH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
nEYNOLPS’S
NEWSPAPER
Outspoken, Vigorous Articles.
PRICE ONE PENNY.
.ToisaKT
mo Moi/fofo
RECORDS
a
'EDISON
OOLD nOl/tOED I
L RECORDS
For EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS
and RECORDS
WRITE TO . . .
Edison Phonograph Supply,
T & c. BUILDINGS,
Swanston Street, Melbourne,
Next Town Hall.
Catalogues and Price Lists Post Free.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
STEAMERS SAIL—
JUNE 12, JULY 10, AUGUST 7.
A TWO MONTH'S EXCURSION.
t
July, August and September are
the Summer Months in Canada.
Weather Perfect.
in the Rockies are the Grandest
Creations of Nature in all
their Majesty.
The Sunny Islands of the Pacific are also
Visited. These Coral Lands have a Beauty all
their own.
THE COST IS £6O FOR 4 SEA-JOURNEY OF 15,000
MILES AND RAIL OF 1000 MILES. INCLUDES
ALL EXPENSES.
Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydnei'.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG, X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character-
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Bunin.vong-,
May 19 (from
Smith’s Wharf).
Friday,
Howard
S.S. Kanovvna, Wednesday,
May 24 (Without Tran-
shipment).
BRISBANE, 'i
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, >
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
May 20.
Jtest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6-'BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. _
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with tha
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and .
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, lnaia, Cninst
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, J 825 to £75.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Officer
Queen’s Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY THE . .
“E. and A.” LIME.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CONVENIENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney -,
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
■■■■■■■DBBHHHi HTIII' In" li «fll—B——
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding' Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
' T SAY, Jim ! Where did you stay when you went over
• L to Melbourne last ? ”
“ Oh 1 at the
"FALSTAFF” Restaurant
SPENCER STREET,
Opposite Railway Offices.
I found it all right, clean and comfortable, handy to
railways and boats. Could get a hot bath when I wanted
it, and could be called any time by Night Porter.
Smoking Room ; 6 a.m. Breakfast. Board and Resi-
dence, 16s. and £l. Single Bedrooms, Is. 6d. Double
Bedrooms, 3s. Meals, 6d. and 9d. Try it.”
A Limited Number of Single Bedrooms are available
at 13. per night, or ss. weekly, with every
* convenience. Tel. 1281.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comroru and convenience at—
MRS. TOBI NS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
SI KILDA.
r pHE Largest and Jjesi-Appointed Hoarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
Creswick Hotel
Bligh & Bent
Sts., Sydney.
Excellent Bachelors' Quarters. A Real English
Home. TERMS MODERATE.
PROPRIETRESS^-***
MRS. M. J. CHANCELLOR.


w
DEAF
By using: the Wilson Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
| tressing head noises write
| for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Go.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
y»*ti>HiHAA4AAtHAIIAHAI4AAIiAAAtAAAAAAAii£tjP
[nervousness. 1
3 IiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH, fc
% DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY. t
3 A Gentleman having tried in vain every l>
3 advertised remedy, and at last dis- £
a covered a SIMPLE MEANS ol SELF C
3 CURE, will forward the same, free of C
L Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY. t
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines & Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., Ac.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
*
MEDLOW BATH HYDRO, Blue Mountains, n.s.w.
THE ONLY WINTER RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
IT is well known that the climate of Sydney is delightful in winter, but it is not so well known
that the Blue Mountain air is best of all—crisp, bracing frosty
sometimes snowy, but sun, frost or snow is always delightful. MEDLOW J3Alrl niUKU
is a Health Home, electrically lighted and heated throughout; resident doctor; baths and
massage : most careful cooking, both rich or dietetic as required ; an entertainer tor general
amusement; a library of excellent books, and all the world-wide journals and papers.
GO, IF YOUR DOCTOR SENDS YOU;
GO, IF YOU WANT A SPELL; or
GO, FOR A BENEFICIAL HOLIDAY.
MEDLOW BATH is at your door, so why go to New Zealand or Europe? Plenty of you
business-men are making money at the expense of your health. Spend a little on your health as
a good investment. .
TERMS—From £2 2s. upwards.
TN€ ONE PLACE IN AUSTRALIA FOR FEATNERS
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP, THE STRAND, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■ A7HM
10/5
•i: S'
flt!
r 5
p*’
LW
1
x a '-* ’
At!
mm
:- -' 1 C<« TO US
4*\ ' • FOR'THE BEST
jp , . 7/6
5, ■ W
jd imp
m
• ' ■ <
106
m
.. i
a
A
,-
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of STRAND ARCADE, PITT ST., SYDNEY,
Corner of BOURKE & SWANSTON STS., MELBOURNE,
At,so at 213 CHAPEL STREET, PRAHRAN.
WRITE FOR OUR
Illustrated Catalogue.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
Mention The Bulletin.
dsg
<5)
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses _ them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” or “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords most welcome relief
in a very short time.
& S’
S' s* ,J>
sgd
Against Damp Air, Chilis, Colds
and dangers arising therefrom
FOR SAFETY
WEAR
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
ESrFull Illustrated Price List Free. TK4
Soi/K Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
r^iTs-
[ YOU GAN CURE AT HOME
I the Worst Cases of FITS. Treatment simple: results
1 certain. ABSOLUTE PROOFS. Ac., FREE.
Or 6 bottles, 31/- (enough for 8 months); 12 bottles,
56/-, carriage paid.
Mr. Gilbert Dale, 4 i Snow-hill, Hanley, Eng.
Thousands Owe
Their Lives to the
Skill of This
Wonderful Doctor.
♦
Seems to Possess Strange
and Mysterious Power over
Disease.
Offers His Services Free to
the Sick and A fflicted,
Distance no Barrier.
For the past three years accounts have come from
America of the most' astonishing nature, regarding
marvellous cures that were being performed daily by the
famous physician and scientist, Dr. James W. Kidd.
At first these stories were received with considerable
doubt, but there continued to come reports of men and
women being restored to health after years of suffering.
Chronic and so-called incurable invalids were brought
back to perfect health. There seemed no affliction or
disease but what he might cure. Thousands of patients
were treated by the doctor until his name and the fame
of his marvellous remedies spread all over the civilized
world. Investigation has proved every assertion made by
Dr. Kidd. Some of the stories told and letters received
from grateful patients seem to indicate that this man’s
remedies possess a mysterious power over disease. No
matter how severe the case, how chronic, or how long
standing, what other men have said or failed to do. These
are the cases he especially solicits, because they give him
a chance to prove his superior ability.
When asked the secret of his success, the doctor
modestly answers that it is partly due to the wonderful
remedies which he uses and partly to the careful attention
given each case. He treats patients all over the civilized
world by mail, and seems equally as successful as though
they were present in his office. His greatest ambition is
to give every sick, afflicted and suffering man and woman
in the world a chance to try his wonderful treatment. In
an interview recently the doctor said: “I believe that
I have discovered a way to relieve most of the suffering
from sickness and disease in the world, and I believe that
it is my duty as far as possible to make this fact known to
all. For this reason, lam offering to send a free treat-
ment to every applicant, rich or poor, no matter where
they live, no matter what their disease. lam not a rich
man. I cannot afford to always give my medicine away,
but I am going to continue as long as possible or until
every afflicted person has had a chance to try and satisfy
themselves without expending one penny.” Do you
mean that you will send treatment absolutely free to every
one who applies? was asked. “That is exactly what I
mean. Any sick or afflicted person who will write to me
and describe their condition may have a trial of this treat-
ment entirely free. There are no conditions, no restric-
tion. Distance is no barrier. I cure as readily thousands
of miles away as in my office. A letter does just as well
as a personal visit.”
The above statement appeared in all the leading
American papers and from there to the English press. As
a result Dr. Kidd’s mail has been flooded with applications
for free treatment. All have been answered promptly,
but still they continue to come. For the benefit of his
thousands of patients in the British Empire the doctor has
been compelled to establish an office in London. To
secure a free treatment, it is only necessary to address Dr,
James W. Kidd, 486 Saracen Buildings, Snow Hill, London,
E C beino- sure to describe your case. Remember that
the ’doctor treats all diseases from the simplest and
easiest cured to the so-called incurable and chronic
afflictions. There is no disease that he may not cure.
In view of Dr. Kidd’s marvellous success, his standing
amono- America’s most famous physicians, his reputation
for honesty and integrity, this offer affords a remarkable
opportunity to all who are sick and in need of medical
help It means a chance to get well. It means the
opinion and advice of one of the world’s most famous and
successful physicians on your case absolutely free.
“There are over a million under-fed child-
ren in London Board schools.” But in West End
shops, in March
Some of the hothouse-grown strawberries are being sold
at a fraction under a shilling each. A small tray contain-
ing 32 is marked 30s. Early French asparagus at from 30s.
to°40s. a bundle, green peas at 10s. a quart, Oape pears at
lOd. each, and Californian oranges at 6d. each, are a.so
on sale.
The S.M. Herald shrieks daily now
against the awful sinfulness of Socialism, and
calls on all its class to put down this curse of
State enterprise. Also, within the past six days,
it has had articles advocating the curse to this
extent: —
(1) Calling upon the State to organise a weather
bureau, and see to “ the regular and punctual transmis-
sion of weather messages.”
(2) Calling upon the State to fight German trade in
Australia and the Pacific.
(3) Calling upon the State to do more and better in the
wav of technical education.
(4) Calling upon the State to “ earnestly insist on fair
trade in butter,” Private Enterprise having proved itself
a rogue.
(5) Calling upon the State to open up roads and provide
better means of communication to the Dorrigo (N.S.W.)
lands.
(6) Applauding the State for developing and advertising
Australian timbers.
Six days, six demands for Socialism. And yet
the good old soul is aghast at the Queensland
Labor party’s demand (which it doesn’t make)
for “Socialism in our time ” !


ďsf
TRY IT IN
BATH
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION,
a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair,
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites,
invigorating ,n Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets*
o at f anc L Jewellery. Softens Hard Water,
go ivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
"MAKES HOME, SWEET HOME IN DEED,"
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ďh
RESCN’S
STOCK ALE & LAS
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure. No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The tonnage of the various inter-State eight
crews (exclusive of the weights of the coxswains, which
are not available): S. Australia 12cwt. 341 b., Victoria
7 2ib., Queensland llewt. 701 b., Westralia llcwt.
491 b., N.S.W. llcwt. 461 b., Tasmania llcwt. 61b. Result:
Vic. 1, Tas. 2, N.S.W. 3, W.A. 4, S.A. 6, Q. 6. Meat
evidently counts for nothing unless the means for
shifting it are available. The race was between the
lightest of the crews and the . second heaviest. The
Tasmanians pulled a splendid race, but they were not
the finished oarsmen the Victorians were. The Victorian
stroke was machine-like, and the boat seemed to rise like
?u -j a ? d over the surface of the water. It was
the ideal of “ the temperate order in so fierce a cause,”
and against that cool, mechanical action the frantic
efforts of the Tassies were hopeless.
This was the 29th inter-State race. The first
was in 1878, between N.S.W. and Victoria. In 1885 Tas-
mania took a look in, just once in a way, and then the
two original competitors had it all to themselves till 1890,
when Queensland entered and beat N.S.W. for second
5-j Ce ' 1897 N.S.W. did not compete, but Westralia
dl i ‘lS** beat Queensland for the second place. 1898 saw
only Victoria and Queensland compete. N.S.W. resumed
operations next year. Of the 29 races Victoria has won
r 4 ’ j. which have been successive victories since and
including 1894. The silly snobbishness of amateur row-
ing clubs m barring manual laborers, for many years stood
m the way of N.y.W. progress in rowing. Taking into
account facilities and proportion of water-edge popula-
tion, N.S.W. ought to hold the rowing supremacy.
The sculling championship was a long stern-
by Tasmanian T. H. Bourke, the champion since and
, including 1903, after Ivens, the Victorian. Four started,
but Edwards touched Evans’s (Tas.) boat, and had to slow
down to avoid a bad foul, and practically put himself out
of the race. Ivens shot away and led right down to
Tennyson, where Bourke spurted, and Ivens seemed too
pumped to respond. Bourke won easily, while the other
Tasmanian (Evans) came with a great rush and secured
second place. Since 1892 Queensland has held the cham-
pionship four tunes, Tasmania three, N.S.W. three, and
Victoria and Westralia once each.
* * • »
The troubles which are now bobbing up over
the Towns v. Stanbury match were noted before the
articles were signed, and made one of the reasons why
Towns was emphatic in demanding three-quarters of the
boat receipts in case of defeat. It is scandalous that
private enterprise should jump the best positions
on the course ; but the agreement to row on the Hunter
. 18 a ac , er f ? r . the boat trust. Boat-racing is one
of those sports which the public patronises by squat-
ting on the water’s edge, and cheering the leading sculler
as he passes it is so free that there isn’t even a collec-
tion ; therefore, the action of Towns and Stanbury in seek-
ing a spot where proceeds are likely to be better isn’t to
be wondered at. By the way, the frequent statement
cnat old Stanbury is going to row “ young ” Towns is
.overdrawn Stanbury is only a year older than Towns ;
the chief difference between the two is that Stanbury is
about four stone heavier than Towns.
♦ * + *
Sydney Dingy Club closed the season with
nearly £2O to the good after giving away £B5 10s. in
prizes. The donations (£9O 2s. Id.) came to about £4
more than entrance fees, steamer returns, and members’
fees taken together, so that the sport still relies on out-
side nursing.
*** * •
when a member of
KS.W. Parliament, did a good deal of rowing. He was a
member of the Leichhardt Club, and at one of their
annual regattas rowed bow in club fours. Stroke fre-
quently told Hughes it was a cert, for them, but they were
badly beaten. Stroke opined that, if given a better boat,
they wou d have won. “It wasn’t the boat,” replied
Hughes, “ it was the stuff that was in it.”
The matches against Notts and Surrey, although
draws, were somewhat interesting. In the Notts match
the County found itself 303 behind and 3h. 25min in
which to get one more to win. If they couldn’t
score fast enough, then they had to keep the
sticks up. When time ran out they had lost
four wickets and notched 23 17 , or got within 67
runs of victory with six wickets still to fall. In the
Surrey match it was the Australians who were left with
/ > th ®y foun( l that they required 220 to win and
had 2J hours in which to make them. They were within
21 of the required number, with four wickets still to fall
when the English twilight gave the verdict a drawn
game.
* * * *
is alread y proving the accuracy of a
recent ‘Sporting Notions” tip as to his usefulness as
batsman. At the end of the third match his figures were
better than those of the majority of the team, those below
him, including Trumper, Hopkins, Gregory, Darling and
MLeod. But it would be better to hear of his greater
success at the bowling crease.
**•*■*
Darling’s decision to keep to Australian times
of play during the English tour will have a bad effect on
the gate. The populace will get tired of the monotony of
drawn games, and a great majority of the fixtures are
sure not to be finished without a Turner or Spofforth on
the visiting side. Australian method of adjournments
and delays on all manner of pretexts from a drizzle to the
loss of a trouser button, are all right when this week and
the next are available for the match, but are out of place in
three days contest. The idea of getting stale should not
frighten the team. It has 14 men and a playable
manager. r J
The Australian XI. match with Surrey ended in
a draw, the Australians requiring 21 runs to win and four
wickets to fall when stumps wore drawn. It was Rovaltv
which defeated the Australians. The time wasted when
the team was presented to the Prince of Wales would
haye j ust about given time for a victory. On some future
visit of an English team, when the Britishers look like
wmmiig, a stoppage should be ordered and the team pre-
sented to aboriginal King Billy. *
* * * #
There have been some big dividends paid bv
Goodwood Handicap winners other than the £B3 11s paid
by First Fleece. In 1881, D.O.D. paid £836 : and in 1900
Ranfurly paid £loll3s. for a sov. *
* * * #
Charles Nugent, an English authority on race-
horses, seems rightly to have predicted that Moifaa, the
ex-Maorilander bought by King Edward to win the
Grand National, would be quite unbalanced at his iumns
by the fact that Richard Marsh, his new trainer, had
considerably shortened his tail. At all events, Moifaa,
deprived of his rudder, jumped very badly, and eventu-
ally fell. Tail docking is an ugly, cruel, and barbarous
practice, which ought not to be permitted. It is making
its way in this country among the Anglo-maniacs who
think it must he right because the English swells doit,
and who never consult the fly-worried horses.
* * * *
The proprietors of. the. minor registered race-
iv?!! r i?T> a r? Ur ! d Melbourne are raising a bogey cry against
the v.K.O. decision to cut down the number of their
authorised dates. They pretend to think that the result
will be an awful increase in- the number of unregistered
pony meetings, whereas the Club’s action will tend to
sharpen the line of distinction between the “ gees ” that
race under V.R.C. rules and the “ ponies ” that don’t.
* * * »
The outside price laid by Adelaide bookmakers
about Goodwood Handicap and Cup was 500 to 2. The
totalisator price of the two winners works out (there is no
actual double tote” in S.A.) at 4000 to 1. In 12 races
the machine paid out dividends of (for a pound) £49 10s.
£26 125., and £B3lls. The first of these was on Troy town
for the Cup, the horse’s official price at Tattersall’s the
evening before being 16 to 1!
* * . ,
As an outcome of the tragic end of jumping-
race rider, Mick Mooney, Victoria will lose its most liberal
and sterling supporter of that class of racing, Mr. S
Miller, chairman of the V.R.C., who has decided to
shortly auction all his hurdlers and ’chasers without
reserve. Said that Mr. Miller frequently urged Mooney
to forswear steeplechase riding, and for some time
wouldn t give him any mounts. Thursday prior to Mooney
“f. 1 ”? killed he had a harmless fall from Drummer. Mr.
Miller took great interest in the dead Cross-country rider
never asking him to school “ rough stuff," and always
making sure that other than stable mounts offering could
with ordinary luck, get over the course.
* * # *
J. Rae, in Sydney just now with a big batch of
M. racehorses, is credited with remarkable success as a
won 8 with 265 nder ' ° f 5U mounfcs S hipping events he
; * * *
It will be interesting to see how the progeny of
Wakeful turn out, as to speed and size. The champion
mare, to this scribe’s way of thinking-, was not so likely to
distinguish dierself at the stud as her one time weedy
looking rival La Carabine, who improved wonderfully in
appearance before she left the turf. Wakeful at her best
was only a little one, and if her children take after her in
that respect they will need to be equally phenomenal bits
of stuff if they are to perpetuate her celebrity. A merely
good little one must always fail in competition with a
good big one when they both carry 9 stone or more.
* * * *
Finish of big handicap at City Tatt. ’s meeting
at Randwick, Wednesday last week, was between two of
Haut B non s get—Fungus and Zythos. Former started a
heavily-backed first favorite (2 to 1), and latter 7 to 1
against. Fungus caught Zythos and looked like romping
over him, but Zythos hung on and passed the judge a
head to the good, with ex-Minister for Lands Crick’s
Ossian tlnrd—the unlucky one of the race :he made
Mocked. 6 * 01 ' 68 fc ° g6t fchroug:h at fche turn > but was
* * * »
Transpires that Troytown, who won Adelaide
Cup last week, starting a rank outsider, would never have
run had his owner’s orders been obeyed. He was backed
accordingly for the first leg (Goodwood Handicap) of big
S.A.J.C. double, but didn’t finish among the first eight.
Subsequently, owner wired instructions to scratch him
and wired to the same effect a second time, spite of
explanation that the nag- looked to have a chance, as he
was badly hampered in the sprint.
Black Tower, winner of Warrnambool Grand
Annual Steeple, t’other day, was out of a Suffolk Punch
mare, who used to draw a plough. When present owner
gave £2OO for him alleged judges smiled, but the Warr-
nambool pnze was worth £lOO more than the horse cost.
Someone has gone into the matter, and dis-
covered that £1 on each of the 129 starters in the 12 races
°* ij,” rs bwo days of S. A.J.O.’s meeting last week
would have brought a profit of £7B Bs., so big* were some
of the tote dividends.
* * * *
Crack North Queenslander Emerald, who looks
more a cross country horse than a flag racer, shaped in
Sydney in City Tattersall’s Flying Handicap, Wednesday
last week. He, however, only finished fourth. Two days
intervening before Canterbury races (Saturday) wrought
a wonderful change ; coin came so solidly for Emerald for
Stewards Mile that he started at 5 to 4 in a field of 12
and had things all his own way. Emerald is worth re-
membering for some of the big things of the future ; he
h U ( j l^ ues^ a Food one, who can carry weight
* * « *
The North Sydney-Balmain Rugby match at
Sydney Agricultural Ground, on Saturday, was an in-
teresting display of language and scrap. There were only
a few hundred people present, but had the teams adver-
tised the curious exhibition they were going to put up
the gate would probably have been valuable. It wasn’t
exactly a free fight, and it was still less like Rugby or any
other recognised brand of football. When teams get out
of hand and commence using language to one another,
and kicking and punching in the loose, it is time to close
the match and disqualify the offenders. With the British
Association and Australian games growing in popularity
every week Rugby cannot afford to have such displays.
* * * *
The new Sydney District Rugby team is a
strong one, and on Saturday it astonished the University
crowd considerably. The Sydney forwards were deadly,
and dribbled all over the Uni. forwards, and were only
brought up by the excellent combination of the ’Varsity
backs. Sydney backs were sound in their defence, but
lacked dash in attack, and could not make use of the
superiority of their forwards. It was by a wonderful
piece of play that the University at last scored, well on in
the second spell. The Sydney forwards immediately
evened things by rushing the Uni. team right on to their
line and bursting through. Most of the time after that
the Varsity was jammed back on its goal line and playing
a defendve game ; but had the Sydney backs shown more
alacrity the Uni. would have got the beating of its life.
The baby is a vigorous infant.
* * * *
N. Rugby Union, not having received anv
official news of the abolition of the field goal and the
reduction in the value of the marked goal by the English
International committee, has cabled for particulars In
the meantime the Cornstalks will play as before. As no
Australasian body has any say in the appointment of the
English council, it seems unreasonable that it should
impose its decisions on Australia without question.
Imagine the shocked groan that would hit the heavens if
Australia cabled that it had decided to increase the
cricket stumps to four.
* » * *
The Australian footballers had all their “fine-
weather” players on Saturday, and much as the fine
weather kicker is jeered at, he seems to make a marvel-
lous difference in the play. West Sydney brought a
crowd of raw recruits against the hardened veterans of
North Shore, and the result was hideous. 135 points to 7.
But judging by the way some of the West Sydney colts
shaped, North Shore won’t do it at the end of the season.
Newtown also put a scratch team against Balmain, and
the Balmaimacs stored 92 points to their 18. The passing
and marking of the Balmainers was decidedly good. At
Hampden Park the inaccurate kicking of Redfern for-
wards lost them the game, and Paddington scored 35
* • * *
About the most exciting football match played
m Sydney on Saturday was the Soccer game between
Balmain and Glebe at Epping. From these two teams
will be drawn a large proportion of the Sydney team that
is to oppose the Maorilanders, who arrive here on the 17th
of next month. Although they attacked very solidly and
played with beautiful combination, Balmain was unable
to force it home ; but after each repulse they came again
with grim persistency, till at last the sustained effort was
rewarded with a goal. Then Glebe got possession, and
after a pretty struggle, managed to even up the score.
As the game went on each side redoubled its efforts. They
played with frantic zeal, and scored goal and goal about,
and after Glebe had secured the odd one, the Balmain
team failed to do before time ran out.
* * * *
The ex-vice-president ef the Yic. Football
Association says it would be better to have straight-out
professional footballers than the underhand business of
the present time, which is professionalism hypocritically
masquerading as amateurism, and trying to disguise its
identity by all manner of lies and deceit. As most of the
footballers have become professionals in all but name,
perhaps the best course would be to insist that the thing
should walk out in the daylight in its own clothes. A
disguise always suggests criminality.
* * * *
French motor-car builders are experimenting
with a workable machine for the use of kerosene instead
of petrol and naptha. Once an absolutely reliable kero-
sene-burning automobile has been invented it will, in all
human probability, become the freight-carrier of the in-
terior of this droughty country. The outlook for the
horse is getting decidedly gloomy.
Road-covering by bike is a strenuous occupation
in Maoriland. The distance between Wellington and
Napier is about 213 miles, and the journey includes a
climb over the Rimutaka ranges and eminences of lesser
altitudes, through about six different climates, and 18
different systems of prevailing wind. The record until
the other day was 18h. lmin., when O. G. Smith, winner
of last Christchurch-Timaru Dunlop road race, arose at
3 a.m. and battled out of one of Wellington’s gales and
into the fastnesses of the ranges, where assorted cyclones
happened to be playing football, and deposited Smith
on the doorstep of eternity. Smith pulled up at Carterton
(Wairarapa) for repairs, after covering 20 odd miles with
one pedal. The 50 minutes delay did not prevent him
reaching Eketahuna (where it rains eight days out of the
seven) in record time, but a severe storm—to which the
district is also addicted—compelled the plucky rider to
give the attempt best. A few days later, however, he
crossed the Rimutakas in the moonlight, and although
his spills were disconcerting at a spot where a train was
blown into a gully a few years ago, sufficient of him was
left to carry him to Napier and clip Ih. 37min. off the
record. Smith is only a'handful—stands five-foot nothing,
and weighs Bst. 61b. Fifty pounds, a bike and the glory
were the inducements.
The worried motorist sees another bogey rising
in his dusty track. At present his tyres, the set of four,
cost him, if they are made of the best Para rubber, any-
thing between £2O and £4O, according to thickness. And
the tyre is part of the machine that will not stand
economy—if it is not of the best material its life is briefer
than a shearer’s drunk. Even when made of the best
Para, the tyre is a comparatively short-lived article, and
a motor car without rubber pneumatic tyres would be
like a jaunting car running over the roads which are paved
with good intentions. There’s no substitute for the real
thing. Within quite a recent period the price of Para
rubber has increased by £220 per ton, and, as a further
rise is impending, the man who goes a-carring or wheeling
will have to face an increase in the price of his punctures.
* * * *
Two miles a minute is the record which the
automobilists of the world are striving for. So far, 110
miles an hour is the maximum.
* * * *
The proposal of the N.S.W. League of Wheel-
men to withdraw from the Federal Cycling Council is an
empty threat unless it can induce at - least the Victorian
League to also secede. If N.S.W. alone withdraws, it will
be N.S.W. League against all Australia. Which means
that the other States will provide more racing, more and
bigger prizes, and as they will have the money to import
the foreign crack riders, and the power to disqualify any-
one having any dealings with the N.S.W. League, the
Cornstalk crowd will not retain many racers. Of course,
the Council might take it lying down—but it is not likely’
and it’s better to remain in the Council and have a say in
its management than withdraw from it and live by its
grace only.
* * * *
The French motor firm of Serpollet is making a
special steam whizzer with which it hopes to establish a
new world’s record of somewhere about 130 miles an
hour.
* * * *
In Victoria they are beginning to offer big
money for road races, and February next will see a 27-
mile road spin in Gippsland with £2OO for the winner, and
£5O between the second and third men.
■***■*
The Australian cycle ‘ ‘ promoters ” have
announced “ no more appearance money for even foreign
cracks.” They say the extra cash will be distributed in
prizes. If the foreign rider will come all the same,
attracted by the big money prizes attached to the great
handicap races, well and good. It will give the Australian
riders a better chance to make a decent living without
“ cutting it up.”
* * • *
The hog in the car raised a considerable dust in
England recently. Somewhere in the midland counties a
child was knocked down and run over by a motor car, and
the driver fled on at top speed without deigning to
trouble about the victim. Popular indignation was
raised, and London Daily Mail offered £lOO for the de-
tection of the miscreant. • Then it was discovered that he
was the varlet of Hildebrand Harmsworth, one of the
owners of the Daily Mail. The Mail lost its head, with-
drew its offer of a reward, generally played the fool,
and sort of laid itself open to a charge of tacitly
claiming for Hildebrand’s driver the right to run over
children who get in the road. Meanwhile the child has
died, and the driver is committed for manslaughter.
Buttan Singh and Bert Woods, Russian
Lion Haokenschmidt’s discarded wrestling assistant
(alleged premier of the British navy), decided their
frequently postponed catch-as-catch-can match at Mel-
bourne Athenamm Hall last week, and the Englishman
showed poorly against his wiry ancient antagonist, who
is in the forties. Twenty minutes’ground work—Singh
atop mostly—saw the brown man bring the dreaded
hammerlock into operation, and as he added to the
agony by forcing the limb up towards the shoulder,
Woods writhed with pain till his second, Graham, cried
enough for him. It wasn’t possible for Woods to get out
of the difficulty, and further resistance meant a dislo-
cated shoulder or a broken arm, but all the same he
kicked vigorously at Graham’s interference, insisting
that he could have released himself, but refused to face
the ordeal again.
* * *
Result of Curnow-M‘Derinott ’rastle, at New-
castle, Saturday, which M'Dermott won easily with two
straight falls, depreciates N.S.W. amateur material con-
siderably, for last year Curnow (though only a lighr.
weight) secured State amateur supremacy, beating seve
aspirants of all weights without much in the way or
effort, and M'Dermott is certainly not a top-notcl r
among professionals.
* * * *
Maoriland champion wrestler, R. J. Scott, cai.,e
to Sydney last week in search of a match, and had hart 'y
landed before Gunga Brahm was on the lookout for hi
smarting under a statement of Scott about his “ colo . ■
Match fixed accordingly for the 29th inst.
» * * «
Interrrogated on the day of his departure
famous long-distance runner Shrubb placed Maorilant.r
George Blake by himself as the best in Australasia over *
long distance, and Shrubb and Duffey agreed that N.S. 17.
sprinter N. Barker topped all short-distance men, a!-j
that the three Cornstalks—Barker, Rowley, and Widunr
—stood out from the best in other sections visited. Fro. i
half-mile to mile, W. J. Burk (M.L.)and G. A. Wheat! y
(Vic.) were unbeatable by their compatriots.
* * * *
It was fitting that Mr. George Carrie, most suj-
cessful skipper for his club (Petersham) in this seasoi, -j
pennant competition and the captain with the best recoi 1
throughout recently-played inter-State matches—N.S.V.
v. Victoria—should win N.S.VV. bowling supremacy lajt
week. Game was hotly fought all the way. Fifteen hear'j
saw scores 14-13 in Carrie’s favor, and a iittle later, 18-17.
After this Carrie went away a bit—mainly through re
markably good play—and ultimately won, 3i to 25, which
necessitated 36 heads.
* * » *
“G. 8.” : “ Old Timer ” misapprehended me. I
compared Miss Kellermann’s times with those of the world
beaters to discount the nonsense which appeared in soin?
papers, and said that she had not the stamina to swim the
English Channel. As he raises the point of speed in that
connection, let me say (hat she is neither sprinter enough
nor stayer enough for the task. Experts agree that the
endeavorer must either have speed enough to get through
in daylight and with one tide, or must have stamina
enough to last through two tides and the extra dangers
and cold of the night. The slow swimmer leaves with a
favorable tide and nears the other shore to find the tide
running so strongly that landing (especially in the dark-
ness) is impossible. The swimmer must either cave in or
hang on till the tide slackens. All recent failures have
occurred through these causes, and the cognoscenti
select Jarvis as the man to dash through in daylight.
Now on figures Jarvis could swim on such a journey about
five miles to Miss Kellermann’s three, and the slower
the swimmer the farther he or she has to swim in conse-
quence of the tide, in such a journey.
♦ * * •
The international lawn tennis match in England
is fixed for July 8 and the week following. France,
Austria (a late and unexpected entry), and Australia all
have byes, Belgium playing the United States to start
with. The four left in then play two semi-finals and a
final (Australia playing Austria), the ultimate winner
having to meet England afterwards.
•■ » * *
Ping-pong has come absolutely to the end of
its tether. From a foolish game to amuse idlers and
British Army officers, it had a rocket-like career up to the
heights of an inter-State association, whose representatives
swaggered round the streets. Last year an effort was made
to resume “practice,” and a roster of matches was drawn
up. The effort was abandoned when a quarter of the way
through, and this year Ping-pong has not been men-
tioned.
* * * *
Mr. N. Joubert, proprietor of Lane Cove
(Sydney) ferry, has in his shed a launch of new and
original design. Her special feature is an arched bottom,
the open side of the arch being the lower, gradually sink-
ing to a flab bottom aft. The notion is to cause the least
possible displacement of water, and, lifting the boat on
the volume that rushes into the curve, to increase the
speed. The unsolved problem is her behavior in a sea-
way, but the designer feels confident she will keep on top
there too. Her dimensions are, roughly—Length, 30ft.;
beam, sft. ; shape something like the boats' at Manly
water-chute ; propelling power, oil.
“Edyson” : The fact that Australia is always
ready for a gamble makes the Eight Hours and the
Druids’ art unions immensely profitable, and apparently
the Australian likes his odds long. Two hundred and
fifty odd thousand Eight Hours tickets were sold, which
pans out at something considerably over £12,000, allowing
for commission and expenses in connection with the
lottery. For this the purchaser gets a chance of prizes
valued at £2OOO or so, and an afternoon’s or evening’s
sport. To the vast majority of the purchasers, who do
not go near the ground on the appointed days, the thing
is a straight gamble, and the odds against the investor
are enormous. Still, the tickets sell like hot cakes, the
devil-me-care Australian’s motto, “Take care of the
pounds, and let the shillings take air of themselves,”
accounting for the fact that so many invest. A well-
conducted national lottery might be made to wipe out
Australian debt in a few years, and it may not be wholly
foolish to make use of a national vice to remove a
national evil. Of course, the hallelujah party will
strenuously oppose any project that gives the wicked the
chance of sinning with the very best intentions, but the
unregenerate statesman cannot overlook the fact that
the people who get furious over the rape of a lock in the
shape of taxation come cheerfully to be fleeced in a
gamble.
* * * *
Bruisers Hiam and Eraser met again at Sydney
National Sporting Club last week. Both remembered the
former unpleasantness, and seemed to be imbued with a
most thorough-going- respect for the other’s offensive
artillery. Their previous fight was a thing to make tigers
glad. In comparison this was a mightv cautious re-
approachinent, but some fearful blows were struck, and
the men began to sag early. In the seventh round
Fraser lost his balance, and in a moment the marine had
jolted him on the jaw, and down went Fraser.
* * * *
The cheerful sports who shouted 4 to 1 on
Walcott, when that colored brother met Nicholls at the
Gaiety on Saturday night, fell in badly. They were
treated to a boxing match of 20 more or less lukewarm
rounds, at the end of which Nicholls was declared winner
on points. The only excitement was when a series of
rather sharp uppercuts dazed Walcott so that he hung
on and hit, and an excited individual foamed at the
mouth and tried to climb into the ring, only to be
hauled back ignominiously by his hind legs. Otherwise
there was a painful absence of comic relief about the
show, which was dull.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Speaking from memory only, I would
say that the Oxford and Cambridge crews have lost bulk
within the past 20 years. The Oxfords this time were
small at both ends of the ship, for whereas No. 5 scaled
13.12 or thereabouts, the four lightest men averaged 11.2,
which was the exact weight of the stroke. The stroke of
the Cantabs, a week before the race, was a mere trifle of
10.5 J, nearly 2st. lighter than No. 7. I call to mind some
very successful University stroke-oars who went higher
than 12st., and I’m wondering whether big men are less
suited to modern racing- conditions or the supply of them
has diminished.
Sick Headache.
Cured by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
When the food is improperly digested and be-
comes clogged in the intestines, sick headache is
almost sure to follow. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Pills strike at the cause, aiding digestion, cleansing
the system, and making the stomach clean and
pure. They assist Nature in the discharge of all
her functions, increase the appetite, produce sound
sleep, and give elasticity to the spirits. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a permanent cure
for all diseases arising from a disordered condition
of the stomach, liver and kidneys. They purify
the blood and make it rich and red, and are a posi-
tive cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, piles, pirnples, boils
and blotches, and for female ailments. Packed in
amber bottles with the full name blown thereon.*


THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Vive! la’
*/ <Regd.>
DOES MOT SHRINK.
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella’ has
borne the test of years ; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
QWFipg?
'VcryOldVatteA
LiqueurWhisky.
J)istilledBcßottled by
Kilmarnock Scotland.
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
WILLIAMS’
ƒĥdffdd
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
C?~ E very Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLI) IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
WILLIAMS’
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
W. W. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS
ďfdhfd
, Awa.'ded Grand Prizs,
St. Louis Exposition, 19J1-
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 310 & 297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S GUNS and RIFLES-a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative)
Missing Friends.
NOTICE re WILLIAM BAIRD.
IF WILLIAM BAIRD, who, with his wife
and children, left Glasgow for Brisbane by
steamer Cloncurry in October, 1884, and was last
seen at Maryborough, Queensland, in 1903, or any
of his children, will communicate with FLOWER
& HART, Solicitors, Adelaide-street, Brisbane,
they may hear of something to their advantage.
’BRIEN, TERENCE FRANCIS, son of
late John O’Brien, of Latrobe-street, Mel-
bourne, Railway Ganger. Something to liis
advantage. National Trustees Company, Mel-
bourne.
3
BBH
i
1
Me
Oil
188
1
i.-'OIi the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
- ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” “W 8
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Offj oe _ Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS,
ABOUT GOOD TAILORING
Before placing the order for your WINTER SITU send to
us for Patterns and Self-measurement Forms, and compare
our values and selection in New Season’s Goods with any
other house in the Commonwealth. You will see the advan-
tage of having your suit made by a specialist in tailoring.
« Economic ” Suits to
Measure—
Hand-finished in the
Best Possible Style—
-35 5. to 50 s.
60s. *° 85s .
Perfect Satisfaction Guaranteed.
r
CHARLES GILBERT,
THE TAILORING SPECIALIST,
Queen St., BRISBANE.
ASK FO#?^SE®«
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. There is Nothing Better.
\
n i
■
■m.
■
y
ROB® 6 *
• tat 1(001:6 cbeap eT
it 6 V 3 i *
R\J^S
cV a °
b°et
cotvseQ^^eaip
'&£'£* 4 -
*s°
4 e o 5 hS s%%&>.
“At
■ptaw
Oun'°f
po u^
eeUaS tu\i
r*i«‘
tour'
, \V6 ft
đ hfdh
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aue., Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
Better and Brighter.
Miss Margret Raven, op Sydney, Writes
a Letter Teli.tng now .Toy Overcame
Her Despair.
“ There is no joy like the joy of being again in
perfect health after you have been disabled, so to
speak, by the pains and after effects of a long,
tedious illness.” That is the spirit of a letter
written on December 7tli, 1904, by Miss Margret
Raven, of 127 Quay-street, Ultimo, Sydney, in
which she most graphically describes the pains and
the wearying effects of the disease —indigestion—
that tortured her for years.
In her letter she says : “I don’t think anyone
in the world has suffered more cruelly from indi-
gestion than I have. For years it blotted all
happiness out of my life and brought me almost to
the grave. It made me weak, thin, pale and
nerveless, unable to eat, sleep, work or enjoy any
of the ] Measures of society. I was then residing at
Hyde Park, Adelaide, South Australia, of which
city lam a native. My case baffled all the skill
and knowledge of my doctors. In the end I could
not retain food on my stomach, and the mere sight
of food often made me retch and vomit till I was
exhausted. The straining, from this cause fre-
quently brought on bleeding from the lungs, which
alarmed me lest it might be consumption. About
two years back, on the faith of advice from a near
friend, I began to take Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
“ To my great joy Mother Seigel’s Syrup proved
to be quite as good as my friend had represented
it to be. From the first it enabled me to retain
my food, and within a couple of weeks I regained
my lost appetite. Day by day there was a marked
improvement in my health and appearance.
“I felt like a better and brighter being. Instead
of moping about the house, dejected and listless, I
was soon able to take active interest in the affairs
of life. After a few months of perseverance with
the medicine my health was thoroughly re-estab-
lished, and I still remain quite well and happy.”
The strongest testimony in Miss Raven’s case is
contained in the seven words at the close of her
letter, “I still remain quite well and happy.”*
AT POVERTY POINT.
The late Antoinette Sterling had been a pupil of
Manuel Garcia, the great singing teacher, but Antoi-
nette’s soulful, songful “ suspirations of forced breath”
when she visited Australia gave no idea of her early vocal
culture. She was then suffering from fatness and reli-
gious hysteria, and she did some of the things that
Garcia had formerly taught her not to do in voice
production. With Santley, another of Garcia’s pupils,
the case was quite different. His songs didn’t appeal
particularly to the multitude, but his method was an
education to local singers.
Ada Reeve has sued an English paper for saying she was
drawing £250 a week. She pleaded it would frighten
managers off if they thought she wanted so much. She
got an apology and her expenses.
Declared now that even “ Yankee Doodle ” was “ made
in Germany.” Johann Lewalter, an eminent authority on
Polk Songs, has traced the tune to Wasenberg, which in
1770 was the central depot of the Hessian troops engaged—
on the wrong side—in the War of Independence. Even
to-day many tunes survive in the neighborhood of
Wasenberg which very much resemble it.
The late Charles Arnold struck Australia for the first
time at Melbourne Bijou in 1888, when Brough and Bouci-
cault were running the theatre. He brought “ Hans the
Boatman,” a precocious kiddie, and a St. Bernard with
him, and played the name-part in his novel show on
“ sharing terms,” the rest of the clever co. being organ-
ised by B. and B. Myra Kemble was the leading lady,
and Pattie Brown (who didn’t spell her name with an “ e”
in those days) made a particular success as Jeftie Thursby.
Three of the men who supported Arnold were “Bill”
Leake, H. C. Sidney, and Lash Gordon—dead long ago, all
of them. “ Hans the Boatman ” carried Arnold trium-
phantly through a long tour, and gave him the Australian
name which, in after years, enabled him to make a fortune
with the bustling Yankee farces —“ What Happened
to Jones” and “ Why Smith Left Home.” Meanwhile,
he had paid a second visit to this country in partnership
with Prank Thornton. Thornton wanted to bring
“Charley’s Aunt” as his own piece, but Penley, the
original “ Aunt ” in London and the owner of the English
version of the comedy, wouldn’t let him have the Aus-
tralian rights, so Arnold got the rights and formed an
alliance with Thornton. In the first place they produced
“Captain Pritz,” a comedy built on “Hans the Boat-
man ” lines in which Arnold hoped to repeat his previous
success. “Pritz” scored a failure; “Charley’s Aunt”
hit the mark. That was in ’93. Arnold returned to Eng-
land richer in pocket but somewhat dimmed in reputation,
partner Thornton having put him into the shade. The
funny little she-inale impersonator came back to Aus-
tralia a couple of years afterwards with his own co. No-
thing more was seen of Arnold until he started to coin
money by means of “Jones,” likewise “Smith.” He
had astounding luck in his last venture. Coming at any
other time he might have done no better with “Jones”
than the merits of the piece deserved. It was not a
brilliant farce, nor was Arnold a remarkably bright come-
dian, but he happened to catch the right moment, and
that was all about it. Por twenty years or more he had
lived upon his other successful piece, “ Hans the
Boatman,” which possessed the grand business virtue of
an attraction for women and children. Arnold will be
remembered for his Hans when many cleverer artists of
his time are quite forgotten. The performance was
likeable, good enough in its decorative way, and distin-
guished by a certain manly femininity that seemed more
or less natural to the actor in private life.
Charles Panning, a Sydney man, well-known to patrons
of Rickards’ shows, writes from Johannesburg, where
he has lately been performing:—“ The charge for
admission to the theatre here is much higher than we
have been accustomed to in Australia. Front stalls and
circle, 10s. 6d. ; stalls, 7s. 6d. ; pit and first gallery, ss. ;
top gallery, 2s. 6d. ; weekly promenade tickets, one
guinea ; yet the house is crowded nightly. The theatre-
goers here are ‘ dead-struck ’ on show-folk, and are lavish
with presents. Our little girl had a birthday surprise-
party recently, and was loaded with enough toys and other
articles to start a small shop. But some of the women
performers are very ‘ strong.’ One woman was given '
four diamond rings, besides bangles, necklets, silk dresses,
and other ‘articles of bigotry and virtue,’in four weeks.
I am doing a parody on the ‘Holy City’—Jewhannesburg
—with a local bearing on the Chinese question, in bur-
lesque Kaffir lingo. It caught on wonderfully. The
bars do a wonderful trade —the cheapest drink,
such as lemonade or soda-water, costs a shilling.
Johnny Coleman’s sister, Nelly, opened here on 27th
February. She is his living image, but only about half
his size ; you may guess she is not very big. She does
male comedy business, very much after Johnny’s style,
but far ahead of him—so you can understand she is
clever. She had heard a report of her brother’s death, of
which we were entirely ignorant and could give her no
information. Her husband is also with the company ;he
models in clay. Saiii Austin and his wife, Rae Cowan,
both well known to Sydney audiences, arrive here in a
day or two. Billie Barlow was appearing successfully at
this theatre when her husband died in England.
The most notable Garcians that Australia has heard
since voice production begad to be talked about were
Charles Santley and the younger Hall 6, who gave lectures
on singing with vocal illustration. But Garcia must have
been a very ancient man when he took Charles Halle’s son
for a pupil.
The “Silver King,” the most popular English melo-
drama of the age, is one of the very few melodramas that
don’t include a titled person among the characters.
There isn’t even a majah or a captain in “ Silver King.”
No dude, no low-comedy man-servant or parlor-maid, no
heavy father, mother, aunt or uncle. Its success is due
as much to the unconventional plan of its characterisation
as to the strength and “ improving ” nature of the plot.
Cleanliness, both political and physical,
often depends upon the inducement to purification.
And the increased popularity of the Turkish
Baths in the Royal Arcade, Melbourne, may be
the result of the splendid improvements in that
desirable institution. “ I was always here pretty
often,” says a prominent habitue in the Parlia-
mentary line of business, “ but since Daly has made
the old place into a palace, I’ll be hanged if I can
keep away !”*
In “ Du Barri,” as produced by Mrs. Brown-Potter and
Gilbert Hare—who plays Louis XV. —at the London Savoy,
one of the features is the levee held by the lady while in
bed, attired in a silk robe of the Rose du,Barri hue, which
she changes in presence of her admirers prior to chocolate
being served. Another scene is the f&te at Louveciennes,
with a Bacchante dance. . . , ,
A New York paper has discovered this :
When the play was the thing, we had
HAMLET
Presented by Mr. John Smith /
under the management of Mr. James Jones.
But now
Mr. JAMES JONES PRESENTS
Mr. John Smith
in Hamlet.
Oarrie Moore was accorded a big benefit-by the Shak-
speare Theatre management, Liverpool, on Bth March
last. London Stage, commenting on it, states “it was in
the nature of a triumph for the gifted lady.”
“ The Pierrot ” : Wm. Anderson is the luckiest manager
in Australia. Everything he touches turns into money.
At the time of writing he has four companies going, and
all bringing him in good money. It is only five years ago
since he made a start at Ballarat. He made a bit of
money, I believe, Out of a speculation, and with it ran
Charlie Holloway at the old mining town. Then he went
into partnership with Holloway, and, since, nothing he
has touched has failed.
A handsomely got-up volume is the
“ Tourists’ Handbook of Australia,” just issued,
gratis, by the Howard-Smith S.S. Co. as a souvenir
of the firm’s jubilee. Mr. Donald Macdonald,
who is responsible for the letter-press, deals graphi-
cally and picturesquely with the five Australian
States, and their principal cities, enterprises and
industries.
' Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Mel bourne—(Broken, Hill' Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management' of Mr, H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
Sydney Labor Council is about to issue a
union label, which will be affixed, to all goods
manufactured by union labor at union rates of pay.
“F.C.”: When some Australian Premier
hasacquired nous enough to inaugurate-a system
whereby prisoners can be put. to useful and re-
munerative work, they should be credited with
what they earn. Then when the cost of their own
and their keepers’ keep—including police, niain-
■ tenance of gaols, etc.—has been deducted, they
should be discharged when they have accumulated,
say, £5 over the damage they have done. ’ Thus a
burglar would be sentenced, not to two or three
years’ hard labor, but to earn the assessed amount
of damage and injury he had done—perhaps £2OO
or so. A man who assaulted another and broke
his jaw would be ordered into confinement till he
had earned the amount of the loss occasioned by
his unruliness—the up-keep of himself and his
keepers,- his wife and family, the .victim, till he
i was able to go to work again, the latter’s wife and
' family, and a solatium for the pain and inconveni-
ence occasioned the victim. It might take him a
■ good while to do.this, but that would be his own
funeral. At any rate, it would.be a vastly more
; reasonable system than the present, under which
a man who breaks another’s jaw may get any-
thing from one month to five years, according to
the temper of the jury and the liver of the judge,
and the man with the broken jaw gets nothing.


HAVE YOU
ABADLEC
*i*lh Woiffi4la that Discharge or otherwise, porhapi sur-
fP-uliwtod wifoh inflammation and swollen that when you
tp'Ais* your ftnger on the inflamed part it leavei the iinpres-
uton-7 If so, under the ekin you hare poison that deflea all
Uve-fcouuuitoa you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
itOtor can recover, hut go on suffering till death releases
jytvn. I'enhkps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
:utett'mted i the same with the ankles, round which the skin
Imj dls&Otoured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
ff all to wed to contiimue will deprive you of the power to
'Wttlfc. Vou may have attended various hospitals and had
'inoutoal advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
a&vtaMl to submit to amputatiou ; but do not, for 1 CAN
GCURfc VtJxC. 1 don't say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
'dthers ha ve toiled is no reason Sot not how being cured'
Band at onoe ittxr
4MUKERT3I -QUASSaorPE* OINTMENT and PILLB,
whilfl'a sect a curttaubi remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
IftinauauiaildTii JCmw* Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
VbLiutr., tlbimKrurs. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
IBiudaira, aitd Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
bo. Pima*,, In Great Britain, l/l|d. per b *x. Prepared by
ALJUUTL, 73* Faxriugdou-street, Loudon, England.
AgfeiLls *.t JLLJ.JOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
Unit loti tlk r xcgiftteTed trade mark ol the Grasshopper on %
U> , .JOu ‘ica »jsi£& bwa. (KsfJ. copyright
EASY HS EATING LOLLIES. Ef-
fective as the most expensive medical
prescription more effective than
most—
LAXATINE,
THE. . . .
LOZENGE .
LAXATIVE,
flushes and cleanses the bowels with-
out pain or strain. IN BOXES. Is.,
FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
JABORINE
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6 , Posted 2/9. Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AIT KEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
Happy Times!
m
yg** ft
=S
x x life seems
■when the chil-
dren are hearty
and strong and
bursting with
spirits! Yet
there are other
times (and these
are not happy)
when the little
ones are pros-
trate with pain;
or they are so
languid that all
the good moth-
er’s efforts to rouse
them are vain. Moth-
ers, there is one thing
that never fails to
bring back health, and
the happiness which
comes with health, and
this is
SCOTT'S
EMULSION
of cod liver oil with
glycerine and the hy-
pophosphites of lime
and soda. For rickets,
wasting, colds and
coughs, bronchitis,
skin or blood troubles,
I refusal to take food, teething trou-
* bles and all children’s ailments,
Scott’s Emulsion is a perfect rem-
edy. Mrs. R. Carr, of Chinaman’s
Flat.Wallsend, N.S.W., wrote us on
Sept. 15th, 1904, this happy letter :
“ My little boy Jack, aged 18 months,
■was a very delicate child and suffered
severely from weak lungs and colds.
I tried various preparations, but he
grew worse. Then the Doctor advised
me to give Scott’s Emulsion, which
agreed so well with him and made
him so strong that in a little while he
was able to run about again. Scott’s
Emulsion saved his life.”
Common cod liver oil will not
do for your sufferer what Scott’s
Emulsion will do ; that is, cure
quicKly. Doctors say that Scott’s
Emulsion cures three times fas-
ter than common cod liver oil.
This is because it is perfectly di-
gestible and perfectly nice,which
common oil and com-
mon preparations are
not.
Write to-day for a free sam-
ple bottle (enclosing jd. for
postage and mentioning
this paper) to SCOTT &
BOWNE, Ttd., 483, Kent
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Trademark
The Crowning Triumph]
>
m A
vJ&r
,1
m
p of x
•'NATURES
PLEASANT.
LAXATIVE"
THE ORIGINAL
AND
genuine:
of modern medicine lies in the
pleasantness of its great reme-
dies. This is exemplified by
the unparalleled popularity of
California Syrup of Figs, the
pleasant natural laxative, of
which millions of bottles are
sold every year. It is made to
do pleasantly, gently, naturally,
that for which violent purgatives
were too often used with harm-
ful effects upon the system. It
is a tonic, a strengthener as well
as a cleanser of the liver, kid-
neys and bowels, and its use may
be discontinued as soon as the or-
gans are cleansed and corrected.
WORDS OF ADVICE,— Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and
see that the package bears the name of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Imitations are numerous, but as you value vour health you cannot risk
taking a substitute. Of all Chemists.
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
fIELBOURNE
No „ 271 C.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr" Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 C.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, all * . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
Mr. J. KING, Swan’s St., North Freemantle, W. Australia,^
HAS BEEN CURED
OF A SCROTAL
R
Me. J. KINO
of 20 years’ standing without operation, and has dis-
carded his truss. He had suffered not only from his rupture,
but also from the effects of ill-fitting spring trusses, which caused
>iore pain than the rupture. He had given up all hopes of a cure
until he heard of the Rice method. He tried it audit cured him.
Thousands of men, women and children have been cured by this
method without pain, danger or operation. Among them are
Chas. Pittner. Mossman, via Port Douglas, Queensland; Mrs.
F. Medley, 331, Swan Sireet, Richmond, Melbourne: L. Exton
(child), 2. Harold Street, Newtown, near Sydney, N.S.W.; and
J. Westhead, River Darling, Pooncaria, N.S.W. Your rupture
cannot, be worse than some I have cured. You owe it to yourself to
at least investigate carefully this method of cure. BEWAHE oi
any person or persons claiming to be or to have been at anytime
connected with me in business in any way. Such statements are
absolutely fraudulent and devoid of all foundation. BEWAnt
of all imitations of my method. The genuii a Rice method can De
obtained from my London office only. I ,vili send y° u
giving a complete description of rupture a id its cure, and teiung
•why the Rice method has succeeded in -so many thousands o
cases, if you will write for it. Do not be misled by
guarantees, but write for my world-v/ide-known and tes
method. Write to-day to W. S. RICE/ Rupture Specialist
(Dept. 2020), 8 & 0, Stonecutter Street, London, E.C.
“The Hussian peasant is dirty ? Well,
Why should he take care of a body not his own ? ”
-—'Tolstoy.
A Letter from the South.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thursday Island is just the same as ever. Pilots in and
pilots out. Jack has gone south with a 8.1., and Frank
arrives here to-morrow with the outward-bound Jap.
Remember me to Old Broad-street and the Flea-pit—l’d
rather you be there than me.— From Jim J ’s Thurs-
day Island letter.
The fog folds up before mine eyes, the sky is
strangely light,
The smells of Soho, like the half-spent fumes of
dynamite,
Are changed to tropic scents of fruit, and sea, and
Mitchell grass,
Of paw-paw and the isles of pine that wall Whit-
sunday Pass.
The blue and gold of Torres Straits, and Thurs-
day’s white bleached sand ;
The thunder on the Reef drowns the reverberance
of the Strand ;
And the Plea-pit and Old Broad-street are hidde»
by the day;
And I am south of Thursday—twelve thousand
miles away ;
The squalid streets of Manchester, the gloomy
halls of loot,
Forgotten with the Clyde side—and the misty
Kyles of Bute—
My homesick heart outleaps the poles of
space and sea!
The Memory flies unto the places where the Man
would be.
So “Frank steers north the Japanee“Jack
takes the 8.1. south ” ;
And Jim is going west—the lust of New Tracks
in his mouth;
And Elder’s streaming every month his half a ton
of tin;
And I am here in England, hunting dross that
fools do win.
But yet, for that I am a man, Ambition spurs me
on
To leave the great and golden plains whose suns
for me have shone —
To follow to my Destiny, whose pains do never
cease—
To flee the silent haven and the snowy hill cf
peace.
For that some men are dull as bees; for that some
men are born
To gather color to their lives, as poppies in the
corn;
For that the wheat—the bread of life—is baked
for all by fire.
For some also the poppy grows—the symbol of
desire.
And, ineradicable, while my leaping pulses beat,
Love doth my life incarnadine as poppies in the
wheat.
The love of life, the love of love, the love of
land and home!
The love of doing, that made once the world all
rose and chrome—
The love of Splendore—the South wind’s daugh-
ter, strong and kind,
Who bore me north to Torres Straits, and left the
towns behind.
The raven days of London go, I see a Southern
night;
A ship inside the Barrier Reef—a bay of mobile
light;
The eyes of brown and hazel —the smile upon her
lip—
My lady looks unto me and gilds for me the ship;
Gold light upon the silver, from the ship-lights’
changing bars;
The sea a fecund meadow-land sown carelessly
with stars.
The long-drawn days upon the plains—the star-lit
sandy camp ;
The creek parched by the sunlight making night
soft, sweet and damp;
The one clean love that matters spurring me unto
the chase !
Here—miles of shame, and every one with the
same harlot face.
The summer nights Australian, tropic scents of
fruit and flower—
And ended grudgingly because too short is every
hour;
The midnights in the garden, when every voice is
inute,
And fancy made the night deceive with fancy’s
Lover’s Lute.
Here —for your lute, there is the stolid, squalid
drunkard’s song;
The voices of the night repeat themselves in
horror long;
The icy wind’s shrill shrieking as the house-eaves
take the shock;
The woman’s cries in labor; and the thief who
breaks the lock.
The sounds of war and hunger in this hell of slate
and stone —
And lonelier than a lonely sea the man who lives
alone.
Down at Cairns, and up the Barron, where the
mighty cedars rise,
There is half-content for me, although not there
the loved one’s eyes ;
At Thursday, where the pilots land and sail down
to the South —
Although not there the name that is as honey to
the mouth ;
The meanest rock of all my land holds almost all
content,
And here—are streets, and usury, and life as
naught is spent. . .
Back from the Old World sail I South as
birds fly home at night,
To be done with the foolish tramps to see, when
lifts the Borda light.
Ah ! to do it again for the joy of it all—the track
that was ever new.
God love me ! the track that was rose and carmine,
and the sea of mobile blue.
But never again the barren plain—the seas whose
woes increase—
Back to the haven of silences and the snowy
hills of peace.
LONDON.
Randolph Bkdfop.d.
A London fashion paper has secured Bernard
Shaw, the well-known novelist and playwright,
as a contributor to write on prevailing fashions.
And he objects to starch. He will not “ wear a
shirt smeared with disgusting white mud.” Shiny
white tubes on the wrist repel him, and the rain-
pipe trouser leg arouses his wrath.
At an electioneering meeting t’other night
in S. A., a budding but nervous politician rose in
turn, blushed, and said with much confusion that
he supported everything his leader supported,
and sat down. After all, it was a sensible speech,
or substitute for a speech. But it didn’t taka on
with the crowd.


THE BEST CAMERAS ARE KODAKS.
And there are NO KODAKS but EASTMAN KODAKS.
The BEST FILMS are KODAK FILMS.
And there are NO KODAK FILMS
but EASTMAN FILMS.^*
The KODAK N.C. FILM is . . .
ORTHOCHROMA TIC,
NON-CURLING,
NON-HALATION.
Always Perfect. * Always Reliable.
c
a
4
§
The Sole Australasian Agents for all KODAK GOODS are
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY, Ltd
375 George St., Sydney
37 Rundle St., Adelaide
284 Collins St., Melbourne
78 Queen St., Brisbane.
•E£
mm
mm.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
62-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
Catalogues Free.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing'.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everythin!?.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
' O! course you have System
in your office. BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OYER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra’
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australijut Agent
*Y£B
fdh
/BALSAMIC
R
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION,
MJL (CHEMISTS ASH MEDICINE DEALERS,
MR, (G, T,C QNGREVE ’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price ©j£„ Ppat Free,
J’IPM C(jO)»be Lodge, f?ecjtham, London, S.E., England
NEW CLUB SHOT SHELLS
A RE factory loaded with standard BLACK
POWDER and shot and wadded with the
famous U.M.C. wads. New Clubs are the most
popular shell of their class in America and else-
where, for they are hard hitting and give a uniform
pattern to the shot charge. Moderate priced.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
Consult HERR RASSIHSSEN, specif
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALEALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will *l.O
nn'n r»BBE3ff Dll I Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLOOD CURE PILLo. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and allßlood
Disorders BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course,
RinnnrA PSULES 6s His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
BLO °^. V. 7 ’ complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23 6.
Weak Women special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
■RwrmvTATTr and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23,6
Mv™Pm? Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
ĥ
ARE YOU BALD ?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAPIXIIIA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id.
Post Fret.
Pe/man's System of
Memory Training .
MEMORY MEANS MONEY.
A poor memory is a hindrance to ft man’s success in
life. Whatever your position in life may be you
cannot hut benefit by improving your memory.
Memory is the foundation of all brain work ; thus the
better the memory, the better the brain work. No
matter how good or how bad a memory you may have
you can develop it by proper training, just as you can
develop strength by proper exercise. Do not let a
poor memory hinder your success in life, but organise
your memory by a Course of
PELMAN’S SYSTEM OF MEMORY TRAINING
which will teach you how to use your brains syste-
matically and turn failure into success. The PELMAN
SYSTEM aims at the Scientific development of the
Natural Memory, and is therefore invaluable to Busi-
ness Men, Students, Lawyers, Doctors, Clergymen,
&c. The Course is simple, easy and interesting, and
may be mastered in six weeks. Takes up very little
time, and results are immediate and permanent.
Write for a Free copy of Mr. Pelman’s explanatory
booklet,
“ MEMORY TRAINING ”: Its Laws and their
Application to Practical Life.
THE SECRETARY , THE PELMAN
SCHOOL OF MEMORY TRAINING,
Box 402, G.P.0., Melbourne.
London : 4 Bloomsbury-street, W.C. France: 109
Avenue de Neuilly Paris. Germany : Mozartater 9,
Munich. South Africa : Lynn Buildings, Durban.
U.S.A.: 1608 Masonic Temple, Chicago.
For Sale.
Mine $ Machinery
For Sale or Lease.
Mount Steadman Gold Mining
Go., Ltd., in liquidation.
'T'ENDERS are invited for the purchase or lease of the
* whole of the Assets of the above Company, con-
sisting of Two Mining Leases of 25 acres each, situated at
Mount Steadman, distant about four miles from the
Gayndah Railway Line now under construction, and 19
miles from Degilbo, the present terminus.
The Mine is equipped with a First-class 10-head Battery,
Engines and Boilers manufactured by Walkers Limited,
Tramway Rails, Trams, two Steam Pumps, 95 chains
4J inch Water Pipe connecting the Mill Tanks with the
Dam. All the Houses and Equipments are perfectly
new and up-to-date, with the most modern appliances for
gold saving.
Particulars and List of Stores, &c., supplied by the
undersigned on application.
Tenders to be in hand by 5 p.m. on 10th June, 1905.
By Order,
ROBERT JONES,
Liquidator,
Richmond Street,
Maryborough, 3rd May, 1905.


THE
GROSVENOR HOTEL
/ ——
SYDNEY.
This most comfortable Family and Com-
mercial Hotel has recently undergone a
thorough renovation, and is now quite
up-to-date, under the personal supervision
of . . .
MRS. WM. GANNON,
Proprietress.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of .New South Wales.
Establish kd 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Inability
~ 2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,370,000 0 0
.. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,370,000 0 0
Directors:
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.0., President.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas VValkbr.
Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie. Esq.
Hon. Ohas. K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq.- A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches m all the Australian States, New Zealand
and Fiji; and Agencies and Correspondents throughout
Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China,
Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United States,
South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
T/ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credft, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Letters of Credit and Circular
Notes in sums of £lO or £2O, negotiable throughout the
World. J. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Amusements.
COONAMBLE SCHOOL OF ARTS.
THE COMMITTEE of the above institution are inviting
tenders for the hiring of the Hall connected with the
institute for Race Week, July 10th to 15th inclusive.
Tenders to be accompanied with one-third of the amount
of Tender in cash or equal. Full particulars may be
obtained from the undersigned on application. Tenders
close 29th'May. Highest or any Tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
FLO. FRANCIS, Secretary.
-|-HE WATKIN MILLS CONCERT TOUR.
Under Direction of .. .. W. Spencer Jones.
Mr. MILLS and his
FAMOUS ENGLISH CONCERT PARTY
WILL OPEN in
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 3.
MISS EDITH KIRKWOOD
MISS GERTRUDE LONSDALE
MR. HAROLD WILDE
MR. WATKIN MILLS
MR. EDOUARD PARLOVITZ
Plan & Tickets at Paling’s. H.
Soprano.
.. ’ Contralto.
Tenor.
. .. Bass.
. .. Pianist.
N. SOUTHWELL,
Local Manager,
it
f
M
m/sfrY
r
7)
9
m
DU
CL
HISKY
i
Vwcd L
««5
owreiro
THE BARMAID,
“Your D.C.L. Degree mag give you swollen head; D.C.L. Whisky won't. It’ll only
give you a clear brain.”*
Amusements.
FITZGERALD BROS. 1
Colossal Circus, Menagerie,
and Horse Fair.
BBLMOREI r»AHKI.
THE GREATEST SHOW
the Arm has ever introduced to an appreciative jury of
their fellow-countrymen.
LAST 3 NIGHTS. LAST 3 NIGHTS.
LAST NIGHTS of the
NEW GRAND CHANGE OP PROGRAMME
a Decided and Emphatic Success.
“ THE COMETS.”
“AERIC,” “AERIC," “ AERIC,"
Tho HERBERT TROUPE of Aerial Trapeze
Gymnasts, from Barnum’s (New York), Olympia
(London), and Chiniselli’s (St. Petersburg). Five
Ladies and Gentlemen.
Immense Success of the MUSICAL WEA THERLEYS
and the Combined Continental Company.
THE JAPANESE WRESTLERS, Ac,
NEW FACES, NEW ACTS, NEW SENSATIONS in
THE NEW CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
REMEMBER 1 THREE NIGHTS MORE ! is the only
opportunity you will have of seeing this Great and
Novel Show.
H
NEXT AND FAREWELL MATINEE, SATURDAY.
Doors open at 2. Performance at 3.
PRICES 4s, 3s, 2s, and Is. Children Half-price, ex-
cept to Pit. Box Plan at Paling’s. Comfortable Seating-,
Brilliant Lighting, Superb Dressing, Lovely Horses and
1 onietj - FRANK JONES, Agent.
E ? , MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 7.45. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2.
ANOTHER GREAT AND UNDOUBTED TRIUMPH
achieved by the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
the cingalee.
Box Pian at Paling’s, y£T PRICES AS USUAL.
C*' TER. ON THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. GEO. STEPHENSON.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOONS at 2.
MR. OEO. STEPHENSON’S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
IN
THE ROSE OF THE RIVIERA.
PRICES—4s., 3s. 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
I"HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT and Miss MAUD JEFFRIES in
THE ETERNAL CITY.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 20, will be given a Special
Revival of the Play of the Century, THE SILVER KING.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s and Is.
SCOTTISH ENTERTAINER,
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
iNTERPiUSIiSH 01?
BURNS an d lAN MACLAREN.
Address ; Tim Bulletin.
P A Jr, A T CE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
bole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
THE FEMALE SWINDLER .
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
T *cX *" *. THEATRE, SYDNEY
& M . a »ager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATIX EES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
LAST THREE NIGHTS in Sydney of the World
Greatest Comedian, LITTLE TICH.
Emphatic Success ofM A X MILIAN, Mr. NAT TRAVERS
Mr. W. F. HAWTREY and Miss W. AUSTIN.
Most Enthusiastic Reception of MISS ALICE PIERCE
Immediate Success of MDLLE. ALICE GUERRA, Frenc
• and Spanish Soubrette and Dancer. Mr. WAL ROBIN!
Mr. IRVING SAYLES, KEARNS and ROSLYN. *
0 P f, R A HOUSE, ME L B ollTraTe:
bole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MR. FRED ANDREWS and his MAGIC KETTLE.
FIGAROS, Character Vocalists and Specialty Dancers.
HARRY TAFT, Whistling Comedian.
LEO DRY DEN, Actor Vocalist, Descriptive Comedian,
Change of Programme by WINTON, Ventriloquist,
and M’GINTY.
FANNY POWERS, FORD & BENTLEY, CARDEN WILSON.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE BEST OF FRIENDS.
SAT. NEXT, MAY 20, BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Brilliant Military Melodrama,
ONE OF THE BEST.
Founded on the Celebrated Dreyfus Case.
HSiT PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE WAY TO KENMARE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 20, •
A.KT3OFIEW 3XdC A mr
and HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY of PLAYERS in
ARRAH-NA-POGUE.
ANDREW MACK....as....SHAUN THE POST.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
pRINCESS’S
K - FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
The Celebrated Young Tragedienne,
MISS TITTELL BRU N E,
SU3Sm AY.
PRICES AS USUAL.
Plan at Allan’s.
•JECB JE» XL* _<fV. YEELS,
Under the Direction of Mr. Gregan McMahon,
at the
ATHENAEUM HALL, COLLINS ST., MELB.,
on FRIDAY & SAT. NEXT, 19th & 20th MAY, in
THE PHYSICIAN,
And FRIDAY and SATURDAY, 26th and 27th MAY, in
SCHOOL.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Horatio Bottomley and Tanqueray Todd are
sueing certain members of London Stock Exchange for
“conspiracy and slander” in connection with a concern
called Hannan’s Trust. This wild-cat was floated in 1896,
but, according to Todd, did no business till 1904. It then
took over Bottomley’s Market Trust, and its litter of wild-
cats, and also some alleged goldmines held by Mt.
Yagahong Exploration. “Bears” of Hannan’s Trust
shares got cornered, and said nasty things of Bottomley
and Todd. Hence the row.
* » * *
April crushings, Charters Towers, totalled
18,090 tons for 15,4090 z. Cyanide treated 16,354 tons, for
82240 z. Principal yields—Brit. Central 2350 tons,
10440 z. ; Phoebe 805 tons, lllOoz. ; St. George 1965 tons,
151 loz. ; Queen Cross -.'981 tons, 4337 oz. ; B. Extended
2024 tons, 8430 z. ; Victoria and Queen 104 tons, 208 oz. ;
B. and Wyndham 1930 tons, 13840 z. ; Mills United 895
tons, 5320 z. ; Carrington’s P.C. 51 tons, 400 oz. ; Q. Central
449 tons, 511 oz. ; Marshall’s Queen 517 tons, 2500 z. Some-
thing better was expected from Marshall’s ; mine reports
said—“ Shows gold freely.” Twenty co.’s made calls
totalling £14,175, while six co.’s declared divs. (including
one liquidation) amounting to £16,078. Brilliant St.
George with buyers at 15s. for paids, holds first place
in the market; then Mills United 10s., Queen Cross 9s. 6d
Carringtons 4s. 9d. Phoebe, with a credit balance of
about £14,000, is on the 4s. 6d. mark.
* * 7T *
Unless something new is discovered or more
economical work is done, the Towers will be in a bad way
shortly. Brilliant St. George and B. Central are barely
earning their divs., and, with the Queen Cross, they con-
tribute £13,600 out of a total of £16,078. Mills United
and Phoebe threaten to come to the rescue, and possibly
will for a while. Average cost on the field is about £2los.
a ton. It needs to be a high-grade show to stand that for
long. No attempt is usually made to grade the stone or
sample the mine, so as to work on scientific lines. Argu-
ment used is, if the gold’s not there, you can’t get it. So
the crushing-s are gouged out—there’s no other term for
it. When it goes 3oz. a ton they are good men ; then
when the ioz. stuff is reached it is hard luck. Nothing
less than £oz. is any use, and even on that some will make
calls. The managers are not entirely to blame for this
sort of thing. All they have to do is to report how much
sinking or driving has been done, mention whether they
have put a new clack in the water bucket or not, and keep
count of the number of trucks hauled. “ The office ”
manages the mine—and supplies the unemployed with
letters to the figure-head.
* * * *
Day Dawn Gold Mines, Charters Towers, is in
trouble. Total output for six months was 516 tons
valued at £1195 18s. 2d. Of this tributors got out 227
tons, worth £491. Reef found by the drill is supposed to
be the Talisman. Directors are considering how to test
it, for it means 400 ft. of sinking on calls. Co. has £lOOO
on fixed deposit, but there is £1129 against it.
* * * *
Carrington’s P.C., outside the Towers, has to
date crushed about 100 tons for 7700 z. Show is 30 miles
away, and (some say to keep shareholders off) is wire-
netted. No information is supplied except through the
manager’s fortnightly report, and that mav be censored
for all the public knows. Main shaft is down 60 feet
When the public learned that crosscut had located the
lode, there wasn’t a share to be got—market cleared.
Worth noting that lip paid-up shares are changing hands.
A Huntingdon mill and winding-engine are to be erected
on the claim. Late Gov. Geologist W. H. Rands is
inspecting. Show may be equal to Mount Morgan or the
Vesuvius for all the Towers really knows.
* * * *
“Old Fossicker” offers a suggestion -.—Re the
extraction of gold from sea-water, what is wrong with
this: Let £oz. Premier Reid coat the bottoms of the
ocean-going steamers with quicksilver, have a clean-up
on arrival in port, report-the yields weekly, and apply
the proceeds to pay the mail subsidy ? If the battery"
man’s salary is made good enough, I might be persuaded
to take the job.
* * * #
In N.S. Wales last year the average value of
mineral produced per man employed was £169 4s. 3d
Details:
Men Product
, ; , , Employed. per Man. •
Coal, coke and shale .. 14,146 £l5O 14 10
- 'OoUT •..• . .. r 10,648 107 13 3
Silver, lead and zinc .. ‘ 7,071 318 2"7
Copper.. .. 1,850 227 4 9
v , •• ' •• 2,745 67 6 4
- Other minerals .. 1;377 195 12 7
37,837 £169 4 3
Tin mining is, to a very large extent, in the hands of
Chinese fossickers ; and very little capital is used in the
business. The alluvial fossicker, working on the same
basis, is also responsible for the low gold average.
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common-
wealth. Correspondence invited. *
•** * ;
Constant R. : Return would be about 6f per
cent. ; but risk is very considerable.... W. : (1) If it cost
£3OO to build the walls of a house and £2OO for woodwork
&c., and the whole is insured for £2OO, the insurer would
get the full £2OO in the event of a fire which left the walls
uninjured, but destroyed the rest; the condition of aver-
age would not apply. (2) Under similar circumstances if
the house were insured for £5OO, the insurer wou’d get
£2OO, the amount ,of the actual loss. (3) If a house had
been insured for 20 years, and was then destroyed the
insurer would-receive-the amount of his loss,df it were
within the amount of policy ; bonuses are deducted from
premiums and are not Cumulative. (4) If a house is worth
£5OO an’d is '.insured for £lOOO, and is totally destroyed
the insurer receives £500; a fire insurance policy is an
agreement to indemnify against actual loss only, and the
insurer could not give the necessary statutory declaration
that he had lost £lOOO.
Now stated, on very definite, authority,
tfiab N.S.W. Premier Carruthers has decided to
abolish the Arbitration Act, giving, as a poor sub-
stitute, a Wages Boards system, such as rules in
Victoria. This explains why he is now weakening
the Act by refusing to administer it.
ihe political situation in Bananaland grows
uncertain. Treasurer Kidston has offended
-Minister for Agriculture Denham because he is
too radical, and also the Labor party because fib
is not radical enough. It is questionable whether
the Government will live long enough in the
coming session to carry any popular legislation
Many of the Morgan' party are disaffected,
lvidston s strength lies in the fact that neither
party can do without him. A split eventuating
he is the one man in the present Parliament fit to
load a Labor Government. • - • -
In London Daily News, John Burns
favorably compares the crowd at the late Oxford
and Cambridge boat race (in habit, temper
dress, and behavior) with that of 20 or 30 years
ago. He heard no bad language, saw no betting
or gambling, and met no drunkards. He puts the
difference down to 30 years of free education,
larger schools, concerted play, collective drill]
methodical diversion, the diffusion of knowledge,’
and to the wider opportunities for outdoor and
indoor amusement.
A monument has been erected in London
to the Jews who fell in the Boer war. But what
about a monument to the Jews for whom England
fell into the war ?
Proposed re-distribution of Federal elec-
torates in N.S. W. will take from the rural districts
one seat (which happens to be that which the ex-
Premier, Mr. J. C. Watson, holds) and adds that
and the new seat to the city and suburban repre-
sentation. It is more than possible that the
redistribution scheme will not go through Parlia-
ment, as there will be strong Victorian opposition
to the proposal to deprive that State of one of its
members.
A sovereign in hand is worth two on a
throne.
Items from the book of one Strange, an
English—haw—officah who seems to have run
through Australia :
Sydney, that home of the blatant Bulletin, which
neither fears God nor regards man.
A gentleman is seldom a colonial success, and it takes a
colonial more than a generation to become a success as a
gentleman.
An amateur pottery competition at the
recent Adelaide Chamber of Manufactures’ show
was won by one of the blind men engaged in
basket-making. The wheel and the method of ma-
nipulating the clay were submitted to him for the
first time the night before the contest. He made
quite a presentable basin, and won on his merits,
no special points being allowed for his sightless-
ness. Some of the things made by the amateurs
who joined in the struggle were of the weirdest
character, and no one dared to give them a name.
G. K. Chesterton puts the matter forcibly
from the White Man’s point of view in February
Fortnightly, in a New Year’s Eve political tria-
logue, which ends thus
Dr. Paul: I can’t understand your pro-Russian business
and you a Republican. The Japs have Parliaments,
education, the best modern art and science. What have
you and the Russians in common ?
Mr. Desmond (throwing open the shutters and letting
m a flood of pale light) : New Year’s Day.
Again, re Gladstonian magnanimity—from the
same article:—
The concessions made by the Gladstonians have almost
always been made to small Powers, such as the Boers, the
Greeks, or even the Irish. And it is obvious that this
kind of concessions cannot really raise any doubt of the
nation’s military power. The Tory concessions were
nearly all made to great nations. In a word, I like the
Gladstonian magnanimity simply because it really was
magnanimous. But I dislike your Torjr prudence towards
1 ranee or Russia, because—well, because it is really
prudent.
Q. Treasurer Kidston on some land ques-
tions :
During my northern trip I visited the Atherton district,
near Oairns, where there is some of the finest land in the
State. The soil in some plaoes is 60ft. to 70ft. deep.
Climate is temperate and healthy, situated, as the locality
is, on a sub-tableland. It is curious, however, that most
of the cultivation is done by Chinamen. They secure
leases from white settlers, who seem to be well satisfied
with the Chow’s rent as a return. This Asiatic-alien
settlement question calls for attention at the hands of the
Government. At present there is no power to prevent
the leasing. Consideration of the whole question is press-
ing and urgent. * f
In sugar cultivation a remarkable development has
taken place.* I admit that this was undertaken by the
small farmers, and I do not believe that white labor will
be a success on large plantations. But whereas 20 years
ago people scouted the idea of growing cane by white
labor as far north as Mackay, now two-fifths of the
growers were employing white labor only.
So white labor will have another good effect—
burst up the large estates. Australia wants
small farmers. It can do without the large sugar
planter.
“M.J.C.” writes
. Re “Westralia’s Crying Need” (B. 20/4/’O5). I have
just arrived at Albany from Perth, and have completed a
tour of inspection of lands on the great Southern Railway.
My object is to advise a brother in Rhodesia whether
after his engagement with the British Chartered Com-
pany expires, it would be to his advantage to take up land
or not. From the trend of your article it would appear a
settler with small capital would not have much show in
obtaining a fair selection accessible to the line. Exclud-
ing the districts of Beverley, Katanning, Wagin, and per-
haps one or two others, my experience is that good land
near the line can be obtained at a considerably less cost
and with better prospects than in any of the other States
It is only within the last few years that Westralia has
realised the extent and .the fertility of its soil, and the
climate is the best in Australasia.


Trade
fdh
MarK
FOX
See that all FOX’S Serges and Coating's
are stamped every yard on the bacß,
with the above trade marß and the words
PURE INDIGO
as a guarantee of soundness of material
and dye.
FOX BROS. § Co. Ltd.,Wellington,Somerset,ENGLAND.
m
A NOTABLE COLLECTION OF RINGS
Order by Mall. We can serve
you just as satisfactorily as
If you came and bought in
person. We have but the one
price, and that is the lowest
that goods of equal merit can
be sold at.
fd
Our Eight stores In the eight
principal cities of Australasia
are wonderfully well equipped
to supply you with everything
likely to be found In an up-to-
date Jeweller’s and at prices
not to be bettered anywhere.
T STEWART DAWSON’S a£s ss. Ring sells for £5 ss. We don’t
such an immense turnover (our eight stores, one in each of the principal cities profit Stewart Dawson Jewellery is lower-priced
1 Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin—are the leading ones), and our customers p y guaranteed and that we have enjoyed the public
than that of other reliable houses. When we add that every article we sell is unreservedly guaranteed,
confidence for 33 years, you will understand why our record in trade is a h’story o succ quality. Write for our free Catalogues,
Except where specified, all the Rings shown here are of 18ct. Gold. All btones are genuine ana mgooa q things<
mentioning what you specially require, as we have new goods m every week, and n y 7
PB7lB—Diamonds, Rubies,
Pearls, Emeralds,
Sapphires, £7 7s.
HtSMfgOTifi
G 5287-10 Diamonds. £lllos.
Gs3oo—Rose Diamond and
Sapphires, £1 2s. 6d.
G4Sl2—2 Opals, £1 7s. 6d.
G4Bl1 —1 Opal, £1 10s.
G 4810—3 Turquoises,
£1 10s.
E 7458 —2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £l l2s. 6d.
F 5419—2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £2.
64444 —2 Diamonds,
1 Emerald, £2 ss.
G 5425—5 Opals, £2 ss,
G 2793—5 Opals, 5 Rubies,
£2 7s. 6d.
F 7305 —5 Pearls, £2 10s.
27—1 Opal, £2 10s.
F 9278—2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £2 10s.
F 9356—8 Diamonds,
£2 10s.
G 2841— Pearls & Turquoise,
£2 15s.
02916 —Finest Opals, £3.
G 3457—2 Diamonds,
2 Rubies, £2 10s.
G 2628—3 Diamonds,
£3.
G 2792 —2 Diamonds,
3 Emeralds, £3 3s.
P 1637—4 Diamonds,
2 Rubies, £3.
G26%—2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £3.
G 6288—2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £3 10s.
161 —2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £3 10s.
G 4816—
Rose Diamonds, 1 Opal £3/15
G 2842 — 12 Rubies,
3 Diamonds, £4 10s.
G 2791—8 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
1 Pearl, £4 JOs.
G 4815—
Diamonds & 3 Pearls, £5.
G4Bl6 —Rubies, Roses, and
Whole Pearl, £4.
163 —5 Diamonds,
£5 ss.
F 5328 — 1 Diamonds,
8 Rubies, £5 10s.
G 4563—10 Diamonds,
£6 6s.
D 4607—2 Diamonds,
1 Ruby, £6 10s.
F 8695—5 Diamonds, Rubies
and Sapphires, £6 10s.
174—4 Diamonds, 3
Sapphires, £7 10s.
18i—Diamonds and
Sapphires, £7 10s.
G 5192—4 Diamonds, 4
Olivines, £8 Bs.
G3SS9 —10 Diamonds,
1 Pearl, 1 Sapphire, £8 10s.
G 8906—5 Diamonds,
£lO 10s.
G 5327—9 Diamonds,
2 Rubies, £l2 10s.
177 Carved Keeper,
£1 10s.
CB72—Rheumatic Ring,
Zinc, Copper, Steel, 2/6.
6—Wedding Ring, £2.
20—1 Opal, £4 10s.
B—Wedding Ring, £1 6s.
G7536— 9ct. Gold Signet,
£1 ss.
21—1 Opal, £4 10s
23—1 Opal, £8 10s.
22—1 Opal £4 4s.
02037—0 pal Heart, 2
Diamonds, £2 10s.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
established 1349. For /,// e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on tha security of Covornment
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 par
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine. “
Directors— Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman • Beniamin Short
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe Esq ’
M.L.A. General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teece, F.I.A F F A., FS S ’ 11
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Wire Cloth Weavers.
fhdfdh
Makers of all Kinds ..
In Steel, Iron, of Wove Wire
Galvanised, Copper, and Brass.
WB riAKB A SPECIALITY OP
HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
We have the BEST MEN and
LATEST MACHINERY.
We weald be pleased te get in communication with
those interested in Wire Cloth.
WE WILL BE FOUND QUICK, CIVIL, OBLIGING AND CHEAP.
gh
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 411 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Factories: 633AGeorge St., and Albion Lane.
P.O. Box $5B. Telephone 2075.
I ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Post Office,
and within a stone’s throw of all the Theatres.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3e. per day; Double Room, 6s. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only charged for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 5.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying For a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL. ENTRANCE; MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
I* Bulk and Bobble arc universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPHXITXOTff.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Jto.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Hew Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
SYD3NTE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
gn ”J e n ° f SHEEPSKINS}, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKIES are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
promptly " g * nd dlSpoSlng t# advantage. Account Sales rendered
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
never rails.
Ask youp Chemist fop the Little Book •
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
C« BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pri*o Medals^
Works s Birmingham,'Eng-land.
fg
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
j paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
and vigorous! To
have perfect health, to be
enabled to enjoy a life of happi-
ness. Ihis is the uppermost desire
in the lives of modern men. No possible
reason exists for any man not having the full
force of Vigor and Vitality that Nature intended.
\ou have impaired your Vitality, but you should not
mar your life. When you feel Weak, and your Nerves are
unstrung, you have wasted the amount of Electricity Nature gave you.
•Regain it 1 Get back the force you have lost, or else, to your
last day, you will remain a Weak, Puny Being, like the tree with-
out sap, gradually fading away. Act at once ! Restore your Energy
your Strength and Vitality ere it is too late.
ĝh
EVEN UNTO OLD AGE you may feel Youthful Vigor. You
may be full of Life, Energy, and Determination, and defy your
years. There is a fountain of Perpetual Youth to be
obtained, and, like the giants of old, you can be in
your prime at sixty. By infusing a soothing
current of Electricity into your system you
• can obtain Health, Strength and
Vitality,
IT NEVER
FAILS.
V
-ss
it
There is nothing so penetrating, nothing so invigorating,
nothing that will relieve Weakness and Fain as speedily and
surely as Dr. McLaughlin's Electric Belt. It is Simple, but
Grand. It assists Nature by a General Reinforcement of the
Vital Energy by infusing a Mild, Invigorating Current of
Electricity into the Nerves, and by supplying the
System with the very Essence of Nerve Vigor
and Nerve Strength.
PR. McLAUCHLIN’S
mmmmummmmmmmmmmmmammammaaxmmmmaaxasza
Electric Belt.
Restores to the System the Vital Nerve
Force that has been wasted through neglect
or excesses of youth. It replaces the motive
power in the body, giving you back the
Vigor and Vitality that enables you to enjoy
a life of happiness. No man should remain
a weakling; n© man should be less a man
than Nature intended him, and to obtain
Health and Strength you must use
ELECTRICITY.
LUMBAGO , FUNCTIONAL WEAKNESS.
„ Woodville, BAAN BAA, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, Yours of recent date to hand, for which I thank you. lam very pleased to state that
my back is thoroughly cured, and never gives me the least trouble now. I had only worn the Belt
for about eight weeks when I felt a decided change. I cannot speak too highly of your wonderful
Belt. Again thanking you, and wishing you every success, I am, yours faithfully,
ALBERT A. G. HUDSON.
SEEK OUR HELP !
Come and let us put New Life and Vitality into you !
, , Come and let us prove to you that Electricity is the
life of the body, and that by the simple application of a steady current into
the system your strength can be restored, your nerve power increased
and that you can be made a strong and vigorous man.
CALL FOR FREE ADVICE.
McLaughlin Co.
100 W. Market St.,
Sydney.
N.Z. Office-
-64 Wills St.,
Wellington
THE
ghf
FREE
BOOKS.
On receipt of this COUPON
properly filled in, we will send you our
Grand, Illustrated Books, containing full
information about the wonders of Electricity,
The “GOERZ” Binocular
FIELD GLASS
■ 'll
The FINEST CLASS IN THE WORLD.
Good for any Distance up to 20 Miles.
SUITABLE FOR TOURIST, RACES,
MARINE, MILITARY, and all uses, and
absolutely invaluable to the Squatter.
Price £8 10s.
Size No. 9— that is, magnifying nine times as
much as the ordinary Field-Glass.
hn Solid Leather Case, with Name
or initials stamped in Gold.
A LIMITED NUMBER ONLY AT THIS PRICE.
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“My Opticians,”
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Early Issues
1850-60
Purchased
Price Lisls,
♦ <0 STRAND ARCADE. SYDNEY.**
AUSTRALIAN
POSTAGE
STAMPS
Cash sen!
By
Refurn
“There is MONEY on your old LETTERS!
ƒgh
ROTHWELL’S “=
OIHT ADDRESS—
Edward St., Brisbane.
Send tor Samples of our
SPECIAL STATION SHIRTS
27/6 the half-dozen,
to order, post paid. H


«GRAND PRIX" PARIS 1900.
The Highest Possible Award.
JOSEPH GILLOTT’S
PENS.
Highest Quality, and Having Greatest
Durability, are therefore
CHEAPEST.
DOCTOR
1
MBS
■
b|
m
m
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.
Physician-in-Chief to the Institute.
A BOOK WORTH £lOO.
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how
Perfect Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands
of weak men in Australia during the past five years. It is a
beautifully illustrated, 570-page book. It tells about the cause
and cure of “weakness” in men, plain, honest, straight from
the shoulder. It tells how we cure it. To any man who suffers
from an early breaking down of the Vital Powers it is invaluable.
“CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by
hundreds of Australian newspapers. It costs you Nothing 1 ,
except the postage fee of One Shilling in Stamps.
Women’s Department.
The department for the treatment of women at the Institute
is under th 3 supervision of Dr. Elizabeth White, a famous lady
doctor and expert diagnostician, who is registered by the
Medical Boards of New South Wales, Victoria, New Zealand, and
America. Dr. White is possessed of valuable experience gained
at the most famous American and Indian colleges, and has
travelled extensively in India, China, Japan, Australia, and
America. Any suffering woman can consult her at her elegant
rooms, 227 Elizabeth St., or by correspondence. Dr. White has
studied with some of the leading scientists of the day.
The worst disease afflicting the Australian man of to-day is the Disease of the Blood,
which eats up the constitution, undermining it in an apparently incurable manner, and
placing the life of the afflicted man in absolute jeopardy. If a man is attached by a BLOOD
DISEASE, which affects his entire system, and which arises from personal or congenitive
cause, the hour he employs to seek effective medical aid is worth more than he can estimate.
A few months at the most is the time a man may live if he is afflicted with the Disease
which is the scourge of generations. It is a man’s duty to become well and strong, and to
call and consult the Specialists of
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
if he wishes to obtain the advice of Medical Experts. In the treatment of such diseases as VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, INFLAMMA-
TION of the PROSTATE GLAND, WEAKNESS of VITAL ORGANS, KIDNEY DISORDERS, STOMACH TROUBLES, CON-
TAGIOUS BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLADDER IRREGULARITIES, EPILEPSY, these SPECIALISTS are amongst the most famous
in the world THEY DO NOT EXPERIMENT, or professionally humbug the sufferer ; they tell the truth straight out. It may be
unpleasant, but when
A MAN’S LIFE IS AT STAKE
the truth must be told. The Specialists have practised in Australia for over a QUARTER of a CENTURY. They require no recom
mendation, the best they possess lies in the fact that thousands of men they have cured live in Australia to-day.
* * * *
* * * *
The Physician-in-Ohief to the Institute is DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.0.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L. M„ and his
Certificates prove REGISTRATION by the MEDICAL BOARDS of AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND, and AMERICA. In the treatment
and cure of MEN’S DISORDERS he is a Specialist of EuroDean Experience. He has filled honorary position? to Australian and
Continental Hospitals, and is late of the British Army Medical Staff. Afflicted Men cannot do better than call and consult him, or
place their case in the hands of either of the several Medical Experts associated with this great Institute.
ADVICE and PRIVATE CONSULTATION IS TREE.
By reference to any of the loading banks or commercial Houses in Sydney, patients can
convince themselves as to the professional bona-fides of this Medical Institute, It is
scientific in every detail. Its cost has been enormous. It is known far and wide by reason of
the great cures effected by its Specialists. Its Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest
Medical minds in the Commonwealth. A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of
Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheu-
matism, Insomnia, Kidney Trouble, Dropsy, or Diabetes, Spinal Affections, Diseases of the
Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have studied each Disease
thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is the treatment they
will receive, and will be such as no other medical institution in Australia can afford them.
HOME TREATMENT.
If you live out of town and cannot visit us, this need not deprive you of the
benefits of our wonderful treatment for the cure of Nerve and Blood Disorders.
—ww ax w Scarcely a day passes that the news does not reach us of some great home
cure of a person living so far away that a personal visit could not be made. Write a plain statement of your condition, explaining
your feelings and symptoms as clearly as possible, and from it we will able to accurately diagnose your case. It only costs you the
trouble of writing and twopence postage to get the opinion and advice of Australia’s Leading Specialists.
Those who have the available time, and others who, through false modesty, refrain from personal consultation, should also take
advantage of treatment by PAEOELS POST SYSTEM. ALL MEDICINES ARE SECURELY PACKED AND FORWARDED
SCREENED FROM OBSERVATION, and may be received in a few days after writing the application.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute
Richard Wallace, M.D., Physician-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Principal Women’s Dept.
and at Melbourne.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
" They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
The Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Sold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
tar BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. ~WI
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM*!.
A NOVEL PRESENT.,^,
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 6/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsomo
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire Kingr, Cole’s
Book Arcade. Melbourne. Vic.
A GOLD OR SILVER WATCH FREE.
SEND NO MONEY.
fgh
We hereby undertake to give one
of our famous Gold or Silver
Watches (Lady’s or Gentleman’s)
to every Man, Woman, or Child
who sends us the correct reading
of the following Puzzle..
| D»*T M**S T**S C****E[
The only condition is that, If
your answer is correct, you pur-
chase one of our SOLID STER-
LING SILVER CHAINS, or one
of our Gold-filled Warranted
Chains, to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer
and enclose stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform
you if you have won the Watch.
We are making this offer solely
with the object of introducing
and advertising our goods.
forward your letter to our address..
GOLDSMITHS’ COLONIAL CO., Pitt St., Sjdiej.
Sold
by ALL
First-Class
Storks
in Australasia.
No. 8160.
1 Blade.
Cocoa Handle - //-
Buffalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - //6
gfh
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are tho
BPST.
P’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
Is now being used by hundreds of woolgrowers, amongst them some of the largest squatters in Australia.
IT WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT IS CLAIMED EOR IT.
It will stay on the sheep’s back as long as required. It will not injure the wool and can be scoured from It.
Manufacturers and Sole Agents; ' r
FECTin GRIME * GO.; fIIEGBOVRRE.
BLACK, BED, and BLUE (in 8-gallon Cases): —
PRICE BN MELBOURNE
„ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co., Ltd.)
„ i BRISBANE (E. Rich St Co., Ltd.)
.. HOBART <Wm. Crosfov & Co.)
4/-
4/-
4/-
4/-
por Gallon*
99
99
99
Jt\e £ a r?cet describes-it, as—
“Mr. Benger’s admirable -
preparation.”
Vfje British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON,
fh
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
and < he AGED.
Bcnoer’s fooD Is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
. ~ , rp..„ anc* Allianz
The British Empire Motor iiad.es
had its first meeting in London, the other wees.
Tim most significant speech was Pe
representing a society ofmoto . , ij....
traders, who pointed out that the importers ii -
far are mightier than the manufacturers m .Britain,
aiid suggested that the members of both socie les
should employ their cars at next general election
in carrying voters to the poll to vote for a OU per
cent ad duty on all foreign products
wbntsnnvpr T.ond cheers 1 Five years ago, such
whatsoever. ■ ? W.-eetrade ” would have
a snort at the blessmg of leetrade jouiun
been received with loud lau D htei at . y &
where importers were present. une practical
result of the Joe Chamberlain movement has been
the awakening of many drowsy British traders to
the fact that they can trade just as profitably in
home-made as in foreign-made goods.
Bttt t fttn correspondent •
A common notion amon/old bushmen is that they have
a legal right to camp and graze their horses, &c., on river
banks, up to two chains from the level of the stream. Is
there any foundation for this idea 7
-yyhich a law-authority answers with this
i dea se ems to have sprung from the almost uni-
yersally accepted, but erroneous, belief that the cus-
tomary Crown reservation of 100 feet fronting the sea
and arms of the sea cannot be disposed of by the Crown
for an estate in fee simple. Nevertheless, such disposi-
tions Qf dai]y occurr |’ nce . and altho ugh all navigable
rivers and arms of the sea are common highways, subject
j. Q unfettered use of the public as far as the waters
are concerned, the banks and beds thereof are in
no way distinguishable, legally, from other Crown lands.
The law governing riparian rights in Australia is the
ancient Common Law of England, modified by various
State statutes to some scarcely appreciable extent. And,
generally speaking, throughout the Commonwealth, a
landed proprietor whose holding is bounded by a river
possesses half the river bed; while, if the river passes
through his holding, he owns the whole of the land
over which the water flows. His rights, however,
as to the water itself have in some States,
and notably in N.S.W., been legislatively restricted.
The travelling bushman’s position is therefore: Unless
he is on a stock route or protected by some special local
statute, he has no legal right whatever to camp or graze
his horses on any river bank. If the river is a navigable
one, he may row or sail or swim through the riparian
owner’s land without committing an offence, but imme-
diately he touches a private-owned bank he is a trespasser,
and similarly he trespasses if he crosses the riparian
owner’s land to gain the water.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., June 5
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tas., June 5
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 1
BROKEN HILL CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 19
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5 2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each lOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of. the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
fgh
fgh
ilf in m'ii i'(tiTFin
fgh
ĥ
fghfh
THE WAY I DO MY BUYlty^j
When the days* work l’ve
time to remember that the boys or
myself want some New Clothing I
just sit down comfortably and write to
LINCOLN,
A
STUART a Col*
FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE
i
A
for their book "The Philosophy of Dress" an
some patterns of cloths, of which they send,
me a great variety by return of post, I then's
read the book and see what will suit me. ’
Having made my selection, and come to a ‘
decision, I send them the order on their
special Measure Form, when finished, the goods
are sent to me and the Carriage is prepaid.
I find by this plan that I buy just as well as
if I was in town, and am splendidly fitted
and suited in every way.
To oblige the Firm / always tell them
which paper l saw their advertisement in.
//
1
I / )
V
Write to-day
for
Patterns
and the Book.
201.
Hearne’s Brone
THE FA.AXOTJS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is mvalua ie, as 1 e ec s a oinp e e ue.
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, noi Consmnptu nto develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs' 1 have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken a e eginning, a ose is genera y ’ .
and a Complete Cure is certain. ___ ______ ______ -
BEWARE OF COUGHS
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid
results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts like
magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH,
Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld,
Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“ I have been a Bronchial subject for nearly forty years,
hut have found your Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P.,
Stawell Brewery,
Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is
the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
the Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN MoKENZIE,
Werona, Victoria.
" I suffered very much from Asthma for four years, and
tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any benefit.
I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la, last
Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2
Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON,
“ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road,
Hawthorn, Melbourne.
•• Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES,
Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte,
South Australia.
“ As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing
In sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very
much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING,
Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis
Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.” J. WRIGHT,
c/o Mr. D. McLean,
Camperdown, Victoria.
“I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis,
during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now
completely cured.” JAMES WILLIAMS,
Huntly-street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“It affords me great pleasure to testify to the mar-
vellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS,
o/o A. H. Massina & Co.,
Australian Journal Office,
Melbourne.
“ For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and
Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded till I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma
Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago.
She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR,
Clonbinane, Sunday Creek,
Broadford, Victoria.
“ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis
Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN,
State School, Rosebud, via Dromana,
Victoria.
“ I feel truly grateful to you for your invaluable
medicine. It is marvellous the good it did me.”
ISABEL P. WILSON,
“ Coanwood,” Drummond-street,
Ballarat, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from
Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON,
7 Little Railway-street, Durban,
Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to
say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and colds.”
A. E. ANDERSON,
Telegraph Office, Fremantle,
West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis
Cure, more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my
son, 5 years old, who has had a cold ever since he was
born. I have only given him a few doses, and he is better
already.” (Mrs.) W. J. WISHART,
Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at
different times for years past, I wish to testify to the
relief always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any
complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD,
19 Fitzgerald-st., South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here.
We sell more of it than of anv other chest medicine we
stock.” WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Oure is the best medicine I have ever
taken ” D. WILLIAMS,
Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of
your bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions bad no effect what-
ever.” T. LEWIS,
Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
“ Your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure has been more to
me than money could ever pay. I am quite free from
Asthma now, and feel very grateful to you.”
ISA S. TOSACH,
Virginia-street, Geelong.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is all you describe it to be.”—
Yours most respectfully, R. J. M'CLELLAND,
Red Jacket, via Walhalla, Victoria.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have
recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON,
Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis' Cure.”-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was
magical in its effects.” —CHAS. WYBROW, Enochs
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family,
and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.” —
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully
quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in
case I should want it.”—D. M'DONALD, Trinkery, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.
“Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”—
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington,
Sydney.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The
result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.” —
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I
ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE,
Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was
that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another ; often bad to sit up in bed part of the night.
Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists, without
success ; was almost tired of trying anything when, one
day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to
give it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and
Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breath-
ing and distressing coug'h have all disappeared. I cannot
speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recom-
mend it to all my friends.”
ELIZA LANGTON,
Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to
inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both
a wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT,
Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with
great benefit to myself, as the smothering has completely
left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAIIILLY,
Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, from
which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at jmy present free-
dom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY,
Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the
doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good; but I lieaid of your Bronchitis Cure, and two
bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-st., South'Yarra, Melbourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure.
This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now cured
a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLLin,
Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bron
chitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
able medicine.” (Mrs .) J. SLATER, .
Warragul, Victoria.
“ We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obta.n
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was Re
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances w men
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing G 59
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-st., Geelong and
other leading residents.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


The bleach of clothes
washed with
SUNLIGHT SOAP
recommends Sunlight Soap.
KNIVES AND FORKS CLEANED WITH
RECOMMEND MONKEY BRAND.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hnnyadl Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The “VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity-.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with. ■
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION,
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS S&XLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Health Notes.
(By W.S.C.)
In order that we may keep the body in the best condition to withstand the daily stress and strain
of mental and physical wear and tear, it is essential for us all to understand something of the Various-
processes of nature which ensure the maintenance of life. Most people do not realise that it is as
necessary to life that the body should waste away as it is that its substance should constantly be
replaced by a sufficient supply of fresh air, water and food. The wasting of the body is accomplished*
by the production of a certain quantity of used-up material, and this used-up or dead material must
be thrown off from the body by natural means without undue delay, for if any of it is suffered to
remain in the system, it becomes actively poisonous, and must cause disease or death.
Upon the skin, lungs, kidneys and liver rests the main responsibility of extracting poisonous-
matter from the blood and removing it from the system. The moment one of those organs, through
weakness or disease, becomes incapable of performing its work efficiently, that moment we begin to
suffer from some illness, and if steps are not taken to restore to health and activity the organ at fault,
death from some form of blood poisoning must ensue.
The skin, as a general thing, needs but regular treatment with good soap and water, and it will
do its duty perfectly and without complaint. The lungs are vigorous organs, and we are soon
made aware of any interference with their action by a fit of coughing or a choking sensation. It
is the importance of looking well after the health of the kidneys'and liver which we especially desir©
to impress upon our readers. These organs are the most delicate of all those engaged in extracting
and removing from the blood the waste poisons as fast as they are produced in the body. Unless the
kidneys and liver are in a fit state to thoroughly perform their task, the particular poisons, which it is
their duty to make and extract, will remain in the system, and as the kidneys and liver are often
unable to tell us directly, by a sensation of pain, that there is anything the matter with them, we
are probably unaware of their failure until we begin to suffer from Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick
Heidache, General Debility, Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. All these complaints are caused
by the presence in the body of urinary and biliary poisons, which, if the kidneys and liver were
acting efficiently, would have been duly removed, and we should have been spared from suffering.
The kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten or twelve -grains
in weight, of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter lea,ves the body dis-
solved in the urine, but if through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins con-
taminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rheumatism',,
Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder-
Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are healthy is to place some, urine, passed!
the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand until next morning. If it is then
cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural color, or has particles floating about in it,
the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must be immediately taken to restore their vigor, or
Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric poisoning will result.
The liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually made
from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver takes
sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be affile to again supply it
to the blood, as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble,
into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from some
form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice, Sick Headache, General
Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver,
that where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy,
and vice versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital
organs which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s ■
Safe Cure. Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine
could be found which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an
exhaustive search for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in .
compounding a medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe
Cure exhibits a marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys .
and liver, and restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all com-
Elaints due to the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the
idneys and liver naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons
cease. Cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [s.]
A BABY IN ARMOUR
is a Baby that is washed regularly with
Wright’s Coal Tar Soap
because he is
PROTECTED FROM THE ATTACKS
of all childhood’s infectious diseases.
Lotus Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Olead me tq Y* ; -
That lies airing the Vurixmer seri, .
■VWhereifo wave frsgW tI%J»«^ s W
But. .silver the gdldetvsamj J
Make melollyf t V ip
And Love and Peace go hand-indfsrid. - $ ■
There in the golden afternoon «*- ..
Soft airs from belts of pine and palm
Wander, all fragrant-warm, to swoon
For sweetness on the still lagoon,
Faint with the balm -
Of breath of lilies, sinking soon.
There the still streams glide, calm and deep,
Flowing low-voiced by lawn and lea,
With languid murmuringS as they sweep ;
And silver shallows croon and creep
To meet the sea,
Whispering themselves all day to sleep.
No frowning heights, no mountains loom
Like shadows on the sunny day ;
Only the low hills, pink with bloom— IT
Only the hollows’ soft-blue gloom
Far, far away,
And breaths o subtle-sweet perfume.
Let me my weariness confess,
Gathered to some deep-loving breftiSt;
There let me pluck the flower and press
The fruit of fair forgetfulness,
And find me rest, ■: 7 ’
Clasped in a kind, calm, passionless caress.;.’.
There let me lie and so forget
The past, its passion and its pain j ‘
And all the thousand thorns that fret
The sad soul, rich with love’s'regret.
And grief in vain—
Let me forget! Let me forget!
There let my listless days be spent,
Untouched by passion’s restless tire.
The long years calm and indolent,
Will pass me by with kind consent,
And no desire
Shall vex my days with discontent.
But in this land of sun-drenched leas,
And changeless skies, blue over all;
Of deathless summer, balmy breeze
And languid streams and dreaming seas,
The heart must fall
Aweary of its endless ease ;
And sometimes, siqk withJouging,'"Turn
' From Stream and strand ancVcfoiplJcss skv ;
While tears of tender trouble bar'll Y"
In dreamyieyes that sigeln to yeanq >
And know not-why-A Y 'k
To look, for what they.-knoq? not,'to return.
Surely the dreamer wilt arise, ~ ' *
Crying, “ Oh, give me back again _ _
The life, the love, the longing and the eyes
And heart of youth, the raptured sighs,
The old sweet pain,
And all the ecstasy of love’s surprise.
“0 for a keen live wind to wake
And scatter all the languid flowers.
O for a breath of storm to make
Confusion on the shores, and shake
The hanging bovvers, 1
Imaged forever'in the dreaming lake.”
Ah me ! the Lotus Isles are fair, Y.
But Weariness stares thro’ the bovvers ;
And Life-in-Death is every where,
And all the dreamers, in their hair,
Have wreathen flowers
To mock their dreamy-eyed despair.
m.l.
MAUD PEACOCKE.
The Serpent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
ADAM was vaguely alarmed when Eve
told him. It was a possibility that had
never occurred to him. .
“Do you mean to say he has proposed to you ?”
he said.
Eve’s eyes had a pathetic shade. There was no
doubt this apple tempted her, but—with limita-
tions. She nodded.
“What did you say?”
“I —I put him off.”
Just then the cause of their conversation, the
Serpent, arrived and claimed her attention at the
piano. Adam, hitherto unsuspicious, watched
him bending sympathetically over her as she
dreamily played, with a quite new feeling of
restlessness. The Serpent was Adam’s friend.
None of the other beasts had his capacity of
twining around the affections. The lions had too
many notions. The pigs were not exactly sociable ;
and various crawling things Adam did not like.
But he had liked the Serpent—until now.
“Eve,” whispered the fascinating reptile, as he
leaned his elbow against the piano ; ‘‘ am I to
have your answer? Will you take what I can
offer ? It will be a life of happiness to you.”
Eve glanced backward at Adam, and flushed at
his sulky face.
“ I will tell you to-morrow,” she said.
* .* * *
The Serpent had gone, arid. Adam lingered,
declining an invitation to accompany him.
“Look here. Eve,” he blurted out, desperately,
“ I saw you whispering; you’re not going to
marry— him ! ”
Eve’s eyes were drooping.
“ I said I would give him his answer to-mor-
row,” she said. ’
“Eve, Eve, you must not marry him !” said
Adam passionately. “I want you to marry me ;
I love you, dear ! I love you ! ” \
• * * *
So Eve offered the apple to Adam that the
Serpent had offered her ; and the Serpent bit the
dust of the earth.. .
But Adam and Eye lost their. Eden they
married !
HAMEP
The Maid of Hope.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
; .
® Jack Aldridge and Old Joe walked
P away, leaving the roar, of the Boulder
"Ypf . twouip'school behind them, the group on
y the outer bppurito talk. •
: . “He’s-an bloke, is Aldridge,” said
■ Srjce, Ifbip the Boult|er:Blocks. “He can take a
* dbm’ : ' nd'th the best of-’erii. They’ve hit him hard
to-day, too !” Y'. .
“Seems to me,” said Sammy Dower, “that
Jack’s luck has been dead out since that affair
with the King-Pin in Kalgoorlie. Didn’t hear of
it ? Well, I’ll tell yer. . -Sharp, who runs the big
saloon, sent over East fop a special brand of girl
for the front bar. He \v>iit:ed. the very best, and
he got it—a reg’lar bosker arid with brains, too.
No nonsense, yer know ! YYer can go so far, but,
anythin’ past that, yer put. iWell, yer see, the
Big Pin, the managing director of the Universal
Gold Go., he got the idea; : fhgU.M.a,ud. was brought
up just specially fer him'. He comes along with
little articles of jewellerypahd -sends, to Perth fer
flowery ffer her, and then pnAmight, in front of the
crowd, he made his flash proposal.- She reddened
up at once, and said somethin’ pretty cuttin’, but
hjs pals only laughed, and ihpV said, sneerin’ like :
‘ Perhaps I made a mistake in’ not bidding
high enough ? ’ She turned; dead white at that.
And just then Aldridge smacked Smart in the
face with his open hand. Yer'could hear the
smack all a#er the place. There was a rough-up
for a few minutes. Then they got Smart outer
the way.
“Later on Smart apologised to the girl, saying
how sorry|fe, was, and that he was drunk, and
presenting her with a duly trans-
ferred parcePyf’ f)00Q Maid of Hope scrip.”
: “Blast hini’aind.his ‘Hopes’!” said Casey.
“ Why, yer can buy a bagful o’ them fer a bob.
Hopes, eh ? The ‘ deadest ’ cat on the field !
Lor ! Smart was liberal; but I ’spekt he’ll get the
woman, all the same. Money talks always, and
Jack hasn’t a bob. Besides, Smart don’t forget
him, and he’ll dog him ; outer Kalgoorlie yet.”
“Where’s he workiri’ now, then?” someone
asked.
“ He's contractin’,” said Sammy, “ in the Maid
of Hope, drivin’ fer the west boundary ; but if
Smart finds him, he’ll root him out fer certain.
Lor, it’s time to get to camp ! So-long.”
* * *
The Maid of Hope was directly on the line
between the world-famed Peerless Pebble and the
Golden Duchess. She was opened out? at 100 ft.
and driven to the eastern boundary—a blank all
the way. The drive was sent to the west, through
the same barren, hungry country, and had reached
within twenty feet of the west boundary when the
news flashed that the Sultan’s Pride, lying side
on to the Maid, had cut the lode. So the Maid
was disgraced, and her name was never again
mentioned.. A few feet, under contract, to be
completed'in-a^perfunctory way, and then the
joining world vVotild know her no more.
'The.day-shift. had left the face} squared-up, and
Aldridge anil old Joe had to .take out a cut. The
grdtiiid was shooting and boring well. Jack had
eharge’d the hole, had nicked thefuse and inserted
a-piece of fractcur for “spitting,” when old Joe
called out “ All right,”
When .the shot had fired, Jaek looked at his
' watch. ’ “Twenty to seven, Joe ! I’ll just go in
and have a peep and see what she’s done, while
you warm the Hilly.”
Joe lit two short pieces of candle, stuck them in
a dab of clay and placed them on the level.
Round the lights he built three large stones, and
on these he rested the billy. Then he spread a
bag over an empty dynamite-case, and made him-
self comfortable. Joe was a Cousin Jack, and
knew all the points of the game. Aldridge came
out presently,- in a hurry. His face startled Joe.
“ Damme, me son, what ails tha’ ? Didn’t she
? tear ?”
; “Joe, old man, get hold of that tail-rope and
pull meaip. This is no place for us to-night.”
Joe nearly choked.
“ Has the smoke gripped ’un, Jack ?Or has tha’
seen a ghost?”
“Get hold of the rope, Joe, damn you! I
haven’t seen a ghost, but I’ve seen the Peerless
Pebble reef in there —as strong as the Bank of
England.”
* * * *
Night-time in Kalgoorlie, and a bustling,
merry, drinking crowd in Sharp’s saloon. Sud-
denly Aldridge pushes through the throng, walks
-up to the bar, and'-says something in low tones to
Maud.
“Blow me,” said Sammy, “if Jack hasn’t
plucked up to speak to her.”
“Hello! Here comes the almighty Smart.
And she’s gone straight over to him—talkin’ dead
serious, too. Smart ’ll win, hands-down; he’s a
cert. Come an’ try something. ”
“I’ve a mortgage over her reputation, as she
calls it,” said Smart, as he smoked a fat cigar and
settled back in his chair. “ I lent her £2OO
to-night, on condition that if she doesn’t refund
within a week I’m to take her instead. Her old
man is in trouble over in Sydney, and she wants
to save him. . Some old gaol-bird, I suppose.
However; she’s as good as mine. She hasn’t a
hope of paying.”
Then Binns, the agent, came in, and whispered
to Smart; “ A bit of a move in the market to-
night, sir. Somebody’s nibbling at‘Hopes’. Three
thousand went out at sixpence, and then 2000
more were bought at sevenpence. Sellers want
tenpence now, but the nibble won’t go past eight-
pence.”
“ What crowd are buying, do you know ? ”
“Someone for a Sydney syndicate, I think;
they’re going on the blind. What about you,
sir?”
“Oh, roll them in! Get tenpence if you can.
If you can’t, take anything. Put ten thousand
in.”
Binns went out.
Tobacco-stnoke filled the room, and it was
becoming exceedingly hot. Smart suggested the
balcony, and the company followed him up the
stairs. He selected a deep armchair, and leaned
comfortably over the railings. The big open-call
Exchange was right opposite, and they could see
and hear quite plainly the transactions. Binns
came back. He had unloaded at ninepence.
Smart nodded, and continued to watch. He
listened carelessly.
‘ ‘ Buyers two-and-six, sellers three—any better
buyer or lower seller in the market ? ”
There was a pause, and a slight stir, and then
the broker’s voice again :
“Buyersfive—buyers.five-and-sjx-j sellers silent.
Buyers seven —eight—nine—buyers' ten.” Smart
sat up.
“What the has happened over there?
What are they selling ? ”
The broker’s voice again : “Maid of Hope,
buyers 10s.”
‘ ‘ Hey ! ” roared Smart, standing up suddenly,
“have they all gone mad ? You there—Smith—
what’s happened to the Maid ?”
“What, don’t you know?” answered a voice
from the street. “They cut the Peerless lode
in the Hope this evening. She’s a ‘ bute,’ too;
coinin’ right underfoot.
The ‘ King-Pin ” was looking so ill that Maud
brought him a drink unasked.
“Did you unload in the rush?” he asked,
grimly.
“No.”
“Then you’re a rich woman to-night, Maud ?”
She smiled meaningly at the company.
“I shall be able to redeem myself'now !”
As they laughed Aldridge came in. He walked
across to Smart, and placed a roll of notes on the
table before him.
“ What does this mean ?”
“Maud tells me that she owes you two hundred
pounds; lam responsible for my wife’s debts.”
OTTO JAEGER.


gfgh
v-r
's'
\
'm
I
H
* A BOUT nineteen
years ago,'’ says
Mr. Henry Speer,
a blacksmith, of
Lynch stret, Young, N.S.W.,
“ I first felt the symptoms of
Indigestion. The pains I
experienced were terrible, and
would completely double me
up. I consulted doctors.
They all agreed it was an
aggravated form of Indiges-
tion, and one told me that 1
would not live four hours
unless I got ease from the
pain. Another doctor advised
operating, but this I would
not agree to. All the doctors
could do for me was to
administer morphia and
opium to deaden the pain. I
was under the doctor’s hands
for many years, attending
them regularly until my patience was exhausted. About
seven years ago, hearing that Bile Beans had cured
many cases of Indigestion, I decided to give them a
fair trial. After having taken them regularly for a
month or six weeks, I noticed a great improvement in
t, , . my condition. Thus encouraged, I persevered with the
Beans, and was effectively and thoroughly cured. It is now five years since I had an
attack of Indigestion, which I think can be taken as a guarantee that the cure is
permanent. Where life was once a burden, it is now a pleasure, and altogether I
leel a different man. I have now been a resident of Young for seven years, and am
consequently well known.”
BILE BEANS are a SAFE and SPEEDY CURE for BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY'
FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, RHEUMATISM’
BAD BREATH, ANAEMIA, DISTURBED SLEEP, PIMPLES, and ALL
SKIN ERUPTIONS, and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to defective
bile flow, assimilation and digestion. BILE BEANS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores at Is. or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (containing three times
Is. size).
BILE Beans
fgh
Impressions of S’African
Politics.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOUTH AFRICA seethes with politics.
In the Transvaal, the talk is all of
“ Representative ” or “ Responsible ”
'Government; in Cape Colony, it is the Afrikander
Rond; in Natal, “ rebates ” and the iniquities of
the “freight ring.” (Why, by-the-way, does not
the Commonwealth join with Natal in establishing
a direct line to London, via Durban, of 20-knot
turbine steamers for mails and perishable produce,
which might also serve as naval cruisers ?) But,
underlying all this confusion of terms, there is only
one great matter in contest, viz. : “Shall South
Africa be Dutch or British ? ” The issues are
■everywhere extremely clear; but their solution
will be a test of statesmanship for many years.
* * * *
Note first the conditions of the problem. South
Africa is a country of black men. In the four
colonies of the Cape, Orange River, Transvaal,
and Natal, there are 3,228,000 blacks (not including
101,000 Indians and 30,000 Chinese) and only
1,189,000 of European descent. And the blacks
are all warriors, while in the Cape some of them
have votes. Next note that the European element
is divided by race-animosities. The Dutch have
never forgotten that the Cape was taken from
them by the British ; they still maintain their
separate language, are slaves to a Calvinistic
religion, and remain fixed in their own ideas.
The “ loyalist ” politician estimates the position
thus
“The Dutch” are always essentially anti-British.
Whatever appearances of goodwill and'friendship to-
wards English rule they may profess for English edifica-
tion, their “ predikants ” and political leaders preach an
unremitting race hostility. A Bond leader will make a
speech in English at a mixed gathering which is full of
sweetness and conciliation, and the next day write in
Dutch an article for Ossnand, breathing resistance and
defiance in every line. The predikants, who rule their
flocks with the meticulous, yet comprehensive tyranny
of a Paraguayan priesthood, may, for form’s sake, preach
moderation in a Sunday sermon ; but this will not pre-
vent the employment during the week of the boycott
and other forms of petty persecution, if the district in
which the loyalists are living is remote enough or Dutch
enough to make the use of such weapons safe. All the
congregations know that when a predikant preaches
charity to Britishers his tongue is in his cheek. Yet the
Dutch are so clever and smooth-spoken that every public
man, at one stage of his career, gets the disease of
believing that the two races can be brought together ; and,
as a rule, the better he is, the greater will be his difficulty
in shaking this off. For such a belief is a disease, and
comes from an ignorance of the Dutch character. Let
one broad fact be taken as a test. There is no teaching
University in all Cape Colony. Even the Bond Govern-
ment, when Mr. Rhodes was Premier, could not overcome
the opposition of the Dutch clergy, who were afraid that
a University would attract their students from the cleri-
cal seminary of Stellenbosch. Now, before Englishmen
can acquiesce in a Dutch supremacy, the Dutch must
move with the age and realise that they no longer live at
a Geneva in the time of Calvin. The first step is freedom
from clerical tyranny and abandonment of their attitude
of social isolation. The best friends of the Dutch, and
those whom the Dutch themselves most respect, are the
public men who speak quite plainly of their determination
to maintain English rule. Once let the Dutch realise that
there will be no yielding on this point, and they will
quickly enough accept the inevitable ; but the policy of
conciliation is as irritating and futile as it is dangerous,
because no concessions will appease a race-prejudice,
which may be suppressed by a policy of equal justice, but
can never be reconciled. Accordingly the best hope of
peace lies in a strong rule and a fixed determination to
maintain the British supremacy.
These may seem extreme sentiments; but it
must be remembered that the memories of the
war are still vivid, and that the Dutch, w r hose
loyalty is in question, were only three years ago
burning and killing within 50 miles of Cape Town
itself, while at the same time they were support-
ing the Transvaal Boers with arms, sympathy,
and money in every other part of the colony.
And if the language of the British party is
“extreme,” their acts have not erred on the side
of severity. These stirrers-up of. civil war—these
Cape rebels who broke their allegiance—have been
punished by the victorious loyalists for their crime
of treason by being deprived for five years of the
right to vote —that right which two-fifths of
Australians never trouble to exercise. Would any
other nation have shown equal leniency ? Would
the Dutch, if they had won ?
As a consequence of this disfranchisement of
rebels, the loyalist Government has now a majority
of six, which has enabled it to carry through a
re-distribution of seats, which, by making votes
more nearly of an equal value, will diminish the
electoral power of the more sparsely populated
Dutch districts. “One Vote One Value ” is, for
the same reason, a loyalist rallying-cry in the
Transvaal. The Cape Parliament has three more
years to run (Parliaments are quinquennial in the
Cape Colony); and the Government expects, by
that time, that the Dutch will have acquiesced in
the inevitable and learnt to recognise that British
rule means liberty with justice.
• * * *
Now for the Dutch side of the case.
First, like the Irish, they appeal to history
where all is m their favor. Beginning from the
time when they were cheated of the compensation-
money for their emancipated slaves, as they be-
lieve, by the British Government, but in reality
by swindling agents to whom they had given
powers-of-attorney to collect the moneys which
with incredible fatuity the Government of the day
had declined to pay except in London. Beginning
that is to say, from the first trek early in the 19tli
century down to the proclamation of the Boer
iiepublic after Majuba Hill, British dealings with
the Boers have been a record of inconsistencies
evasions and duplicity ; due, not to bad faith, but
to the lack of a coherent policy. Thus the Boers,
who are tenacious of their grievances, consider it
axiomatic that the British Government cannot be
trusted, because it will undo to-morrow whatever
it may do to-day. They see, for instance, that
many Dutch loyalists have received less compen-
sation-money . than some of the very rebels who
destroyed their property, and are convinced that
■“Loyalty does not pay.” They say, however,
that they will not on that account rebel again.
“ Out of the fryingpan into the fire ; ” and
they have a specimen of German rule in West
South Africa which satisfies them that, whatever
its faults, English rule is preferable. They declare,
then, that they are a much misjudged people;
that they are too sensible to provoke another war,
and desire nothing now but “ political equality ”
and “majority-rule.”
This is a plausible and attractive cry. But it
would require more knowledge of South Africa
than I possess to draw the line between “ Justice
to the Dutch” and “Injustice to the British.”
* * * *
I express no opinion. But I do not like the
refusal to allow a teaching University; and
Bulletin readers will recall that Milton found by
experience that “Presbyter is but Priest writ
large.”
The Transvaal is undergoing a transition from
Crown to Responsible Government, and the new
constitution may be promulgated any week. Its
main provisions are already known. There is to be
a Parliament on the British model, but the Cabinet
is not to bs responsible to Parliament alone, and a
certain number of Ministers will be Crown
nominees. Such a constitution is only intended
to lie provisional, and it is expected that full
Responsible Government will be given within five
years.
British opinion is divided on this question of
delay. One section insists that the Colony needs
rest and that it would be foolish and injurious to
plunge it into the turmoil of party politics before
it has fully recovered from the disorders of the
war. “Time,” they say, “ must be given to allow
the animosities of the war to simmer down and
accustom the Dutch to Parliamentary institu-
tions.” They urge, too, that there is not yet
sufficient community of interests or knowledge of
each other in the miscellaneous congeries of for-
tune-hunters who have flocked into the country
since the war, so that it would be specially
dangerous to give the control of a complex system
of administration, which is hardly yet in working-
order, to men of no Parliamentary experience,
elected by equally untrained voters. “Let us,”
they say, “ have one Parliament upon the mixed
system, which will give members experience and a
sense of responsibility, and the electorate an
opportunity of estimating the qualities of candi-
dates, and then we shall be ripe for Responsible
Government in its completeness.”
These are in effect the views of the British
Government, which appear to Vie approved of by a
majority of the British party. A section, however,
of the British, composed—strange alliance —of
Laborites and millionaires, object to any delay.
“ The colony.” they say, “is being run by
strangers—young men fresh from Oxford or the
army—who draw high salaries for little work.
These men know little of the country (one of
them, by the way, is Dr. Jameson, of W.A.), and
are starting the colony upon wrong lines, because
they are out of sympathy with the farmer and
worker.”
The Dutch, always acute to take advantage of
British divisions, have not as yet definitely
declared themselves ; but they are believed to be
in favor of immediate Responsible Government, if
they can obtain it upon their own terms of repre-
sentation according to localities and not to
numbers. On this point, however, all sections
of the British are united against them, “One
Vote One Value ” being in their eyes an essential
basis of representation.
The fight is really between city and country —
between the miner and the farmer. On
a basis of “One Vote One Value” Johannes-
burg rules the Transvaal. On any other basis
control must pass to the Dutch farmers, and the
great Rand industry will lie in a more parlous
plight than even in the days of Kruger, whose
laws and proclamations could be evaded by judici-
ous bribery.
Now, without the Rand mines the Transvaal
would be bankrupt, as it was before they were
developed, and the financial position of both the
Orange River and the Cape colonies would be
very seriously affected. Imagine South Australia
being suddenly deprived of both the Broken Hill
and the Westralian trade, and we can picture an
illustration on a small scale of what the conse-
quences would be to all South Africa if the mining
industry of the Transvaal were to receive a serious
check.
But the unmentioned issues of this contest are
of even wider import. The ostensible dispute is
over the form of an Electoral Act, but that which
is really at stake is British supremacy in South
Africa; because if the Boers could only obtain a
majority in the Transvaal Parliament the Dutch
in the other colonies would at once agitate for
Federation.
Natal, of course, is British to the core, but the
Orange River Colony could always be relied upon
as a set-off against Natal. Rhodesia, too, will
always cast a British vote. Thus, if the Dutch
could get possession of the Transvaal, a South
African Commonwealth would consist of two
Dutch and two British colonies, with the Cape
Colony to hold the balance. Now parties in tne
Cape are so nearly equal that the added weight of
Boer influence in the Orange River and the Trans-
vaal might at any time kick the beam in favor of the
Dutch, and thus the Afrikander dream of a Dutch
South Africa would be realised through the con-
stitutional agency of a Federal Parliament in a
manner at once more effective and more difficult
to deal with than .any form of quiet or open agita-
tion. For how long, for instance, would South
Africa remain a British country after its Federal
Parliament had passed a law making Dutch the
official language ?
Thus the Transvaal is the key to the situation ;
and the unanimity of the British party in that
colony in support of “One Vote One Value”
becomes easily intelligible.
* * • *
I found it, however, impossible to understand
in a short stay the reason for differences among
the British upon other questions ; but I am sure,
nevertheless, that the complaints against the Admi-
nistration are in the main unfounded. That mistakes
have been made may be readily admitted ; and
two of the Ministers appear to be unpopular. But
I am certain that no popular system of govern-
ment will give a more honest and efficient Civil-
Service, or deal in a more thorough and scientific
manner with the problems of the war. Still one
may hold this opinion—which, indeed, is general
—and yet insist that it is better for a people to be
governed by themselves with moderate skill than
by strangers with supreme efficiency. The success
of the present system is therefore not a conclusive
argument against a change.
It is certain also that the notion current outside
South Africa that the present Government is in
the interest of the millionaires is ludicrously in-
correct. The most bitter opponents of Lord
Milner whom I met were mine-owners; and the
story is that whenever stocks fall a point, the
Exchange will say it is Lord Milner’s fault.
Indeed, some of the mine-owners avow that they
want Responsible Government, in order to obtain
a squeezable administration, and get rid of the
taxes on their profits which Lord Milner has
imposed. For the rich man “squeaks ” when he
is taxed, just as loudly in South Africa as in
Australia. But how he would squeak in Australia,
if one of our “democratic” Governments were to
put a tax of 10 per cent, upon the profits of gold-
miners, or 65 per cent, upon the profits of a
diamond-mine ! No one, indeed, could have less
sympathy than Lord Milner with the aims and
methods of the modern millionaire ; and the two
measures of taxation to which I have referred
should convince the most incredulous that he
cannot be fairly charged with partiality to the
capitalists.
. “How, then, did he come to sanction the
introduction of Chinese labor ? ” This is “ another
story,” which may fittingly form the subject of
another article.
B. R. WISE.


Cured the Children
Blotches on the Skin. Severe Itching, Sleep Disturbed,
Health Impaired. Now Healthy and Lively.
$
*0
■
?:
Mrs. E. Isaacs,
Caulfield, Vic-
toria, sends the
photograph of
herself and chil-
dren, and says:
M I have used
Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for three of
my children who
were troubled
w i tih eczema,
which, as you
well know, is a
troublesome itch-
ing disease,
breaking out in
blotches on the
skin and causing
no end of trouble
and discomfort to
the children by disturbing their sleep and upsetting their general health.
However, knowing of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to use it, and now the
children are entirely free from any sign whatever of the complaint, and are
as healthy and lively as could be wished.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla cures skin diseases because it removes their cause. It
takes out all impurities from the blood, and then the skin quickly heals.
For sixty years Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been doing this grand work. There
is no other Sarsaparilla like it. When there are impurities in the blood,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will promptly remove them, and will also make the blood
rich and red. Only be sure you get w Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
STtopßrau by DR- J- a AYER CO» LuwuU, TJ. S. A.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
iOOUT
1
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
gout
FILLS
la the Great Engiisn lor (jOIJT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified t© it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking- any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lAd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Free to SVSen.
WRITE to me and I will forward you my ciencmc
book, which will show you how to cure disease and
become healthy, strong and vigorous—the envy of your
fellow-men. The book is free for ths asking, and you will
bless the day you wrote for it. Follow the advice it con-
tains, and ill-health and weakness of mind and body will
vanish like magic and you will be filled with energy,
Btrength and ambition once more. Posted free. Write
Monk ArmandGotjraud, 82 Little Flinders St.,Melbourne.
Drunkenness
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food- will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure wfll
surprise and delight you.
ONE OF many:
Ravensthorpe, W.A. , 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no desire for drink, in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
Yours gratefully, R.G.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address ■
WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
O' CORO’S
f £•
Re iT ed y for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc Restores Energy, Strength
and e m,,tw^ y Q to ,i the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
is. and 17. IT qUantities in °ne, 365. Freight extra,
Ag MtlhT’ r nt l - W T7^~ PtRRy & CO., 47 Q ue en St.,
Rt b SvdneJ ■ & Co., 16 O’Conneli
St., Sydney, Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. ELDTJIDGE & CO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyNE
Caution. —Gennine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRJKLA, bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28 1896, says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlohodvne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation.”
WEAK JVIAJDE: STRONG!
ĝ
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Energy and Vigor. Catalogue and Price List
Post Eree.
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousands have done before we
CURED them. Let ns treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAFI
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
Band Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
’to the oars as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn m oaths without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. MAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Beecbam’s
Pills
You will not have far to go before finding a friend, acquaintance,
or neighbor who can tell you from personal experience that
BEECH A M’S PILLS are the most efficacious medicine yet
known for the cure of all forms of
indigestion, Bilious Disorders, Sick
Headache, Poorness of Blood, Nervous
Debilitv. and General Want of Tone.
mb——maw im^
Such unquestionable testimony can be obtained by almost anyone
anywhere. Those who have taken BEECHAM’S PILLS
have realised the immense benefits derived from their use, and
have recommended them to their friends.
But, notwithstanding the gigantic sale of over Six Million
Boxes pet* Annum , there are still thousands of sufferers
who are spoiling their lives, and possibly ruining their health, with'
experiments, while the old-established remedy, BEECH AM’S
PILLS, still remains untried..
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, Eng.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price 1/1| (56 Pills) and 2/9 68 Pills).
[4.
1
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Carters
ITTLE
iVER
PI LLS.
Small Dosa. Small Prices
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
s
MEN!
ARE YOU
WEAK,
NERVOUS,
TIRED OUT,
DEPRESSED,
SLUGGISH,
HOPELESS,
IRRITABLE,
DEBILITATED,
CONSTIPATED,
DYSPEPTIC,
RHEUMATIC,
AN/EM IC,
UNDEVELOPED 7
WOMEN!
Are you Suffering: from
those Diseases peculiar
to your sex?
IF SO, CONSULT
DR. PARTIN,
The Well-known Specialist of Sydney.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., M. 8., C.M., L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.G., Gold
Medallist, etc., “ Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. Let him probe the
cause of your trouble. He will make no charge for Advice, Personally or by Letter,
and you need feel under no obligation. If you cannot describe your case, send for
his Diagnosis Forms, which will be posted FREE. Dr. Martin does not perform
miracles, but he never undertakes a case which he cannot guarantee to thoroughly
and permanently cure. Do not despair if you have tried others before without
success ; if Dr. Martin tells you your case is curable, and takes it in hand, he "ILL
CURE YOU. All Letters receive prompt attention, and are confidential. His
published Books and Qualifications stamp him as being superior to the ordinary run
of Medical advertisers ; and he has none of the methods of the so-called Specialists.
Address all Communications :
DR. MARTIN, i.D., “ elmley house,”
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER,
Price Is.
Pott Free.


INDIA RUBBER
HOT WATER BAGS.
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many*
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
Perdriau Rubber &>.“•
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st:, South Melbourne,
telephone No. 10US
Mr. Skinner r.as a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE PLENISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and a ter«j f or Banquets and
Private Balls at“ bl * Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sixes supplied.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY
Limited
WORTHINGTON,
TRADE MARK.
32 34 Clarence St., Sydney
WORTHINGTON PUMPS for all Services.
Condensers
High Lift Centrifugals
Oil Separators
Send for Catalogues.
Cooling Towers
Feed Water Heaters
Air Compressors
Meters.
SiIVWWV
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
'491.
Abb
wolf
or
Ax
l~'Zx
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Psoras., SHEFFIELD.
At the Showrooms—
EMPIRE CHAMBERS, 93 YORK-ST.,
SYDNEY
Also at—
“ THE BLOCK:.”
Collins-St., MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged
cases and entrance fitted with (Electric Elevator.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
1%
m,
HAVE IKT STOOTT
All Kinds of Engineers’
Wood Puiieys
Shafting
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Stock* and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
a SViechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Write for Prices to @0 C i SLtO nCB-St.. Svdiiev NQ W
USTRALIAN
Mktmcz,
L.&F™ Jt L ,D
fgh
WOOL, PRODUCE, and
GRAIN BROKERS
STOCK and STATION
AGENTS.
©HQ
g
Size, s±" x 3V' x 5".
We are Direct Importers
and Have
for Sale—
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(all size*
for all
purpose*)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings. Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
SCRUTTON & CO. i Ltd.
97 CX.A.REKTCE STREET, SYDKTEY
= THE WINNING DOUBLE. =====
Card Concentrator and Sperry Sumer.
Most Mine managers know the merits of the FORMER f and those who do not have only to let
us hear from them. They have long been waiting for a machine to treat SLIME MINERAL
successfully, and we have been as long looking for one. NOW we have it and want to tell them
all about this Vanning Buddie. Write for Particulars to
IM. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
