

D. H. BURKE’S “GALLEON” SCHNAPPS. “BEAVER” STOUT (Guinness’)
w
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Blining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVE*. BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
•ggrg-a»TRc ~g=t “tv
"" 'SULtI,'• ——
fiadleys Orient fiotsS.
Pioneer
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J„ C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
LEATHER
MoZiarexx’s Compound
For Illustrated Lists
and full particulars
apply to - - ■ * * -
TRACTION ENGINES, for Haulage and General Work, Direct Ploughing and Working on Double Engn©
System. Steam Ploughing Tackle, &0., &o. LARGE STOCKS ALWAYS ON HAND AND TO ARRI vE:
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°- 7 Bent st, SYDNEY
—-
*r
Take it back.
I must have
- A
Brand ' ®
s
TlationaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security,
Prompt-Settlements,
New South Wales Branchs
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). 4. QIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers wanted. "*i
LO
YOUR GROCER FOR
ASK
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
44
2
«JV
DAILY
TREAT!
I
IS
FOR,
9
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
ManuTatiturera or MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
DAVID BTOBER & SW
BxaisTß&ra Z&asb Mask
In TAnw Colors—
BLACK, RED, & BLUE.
THE PERFECT SREBP-MiVRHER
Is the ONLY Absolutely
SAFE Wool-Marking
OB
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by All Merchants and Storekeepers.
Price 21s.
■
THE
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
TLree Hundred of “Hop’s" Pictures, superbly produced. A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
«
VdjD/u e/qt>± to sn }U9u/uta-&ja spuvjs,,—VdS NOQH3H
The Bulletin
V01.26.—N0. 1329.]
[Thursday, August 3, 1905.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspap*


THE NEWEST IN FICTION.
THE PURPLE PARASOL,
By GEORGE BARR M CUTCHEON author of Beverley of Granstark,” “The Day of a Dog- ”&e with
Coloured Illustrations by Harrison Fisher ; decorated cloth, gilt top, 3s (id, postage id ’
“ As dainty a love story as one would wish to read.” r
“ The reader will close ‘ The Purple Parasol' with regret that he is not permitted to saunter a little
longer m its shade.
THE FUGITIVE BLACKSMITH, By CHARLES D. STEWART, with frontispiece,
cloth binding, 3s. 6d, postage 6d.
“ ! s ?" e of wittiest most pleasurable, yet most honest and simple stories I have ever read.”
It is impossible to match the humour outside of ‘ Huckleberry Finn ’ or ‘ The Pickwick Papers.’ ”
By HENRY C. R. ROWLAND, author of “To Windward,” with
frontispiece, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
THE WANDERERS,
July Review of Reviews. “ Friendly Societies of the
Commonwealth.” Every member of every Friendly
Society should read this. “Electricity Transforming
Traffic.” Character sketch, “The Centenary of Mazzini,”
the great Italian reformer. Eev. A. H. Collins concludes
his article on “The Church and Social Problems.” A
glimpse of the whole world is given in the Review of
Reviews. News agents, or send Bs. fid. to Review of
Reviews, Equitable Building, Melbourne, and it will be
sent you for 12 months.— Advt.
FOR INFLUENZA,BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA,& ALL AFFECTIONS OF
THETHROAT&LUNGS.& PR tV c E 0 H NSUM p£oN
AN IDERLAEMEDY.
; Con lain no Cocaine
'! rs Orotherpoisonoui dn/j
0
99
Registered.
&
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, //&
T HE GREAT
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY.
FOR COUCHS . COLDS . SORE THROAT, LOSS OF VOICE.
'Sold in Tins, 1/6, or Post Free an rec#t ot scamps from the Sole I^-nxifa oturer, G._ ”
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT-5, and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & Aew /ea and.
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street v\.
THE BED PAGE.
J.H. : 1430
Wistful the older time comes back,
And oft of him I dream
Who bore my name at Aginconrt
Beside the morning beam
Of Harry on St. Crispin’s Day,
When the French chivalry
Went down before the starved band
Of bowmen from the sea.
He loved the belling hart beneath
The green and whispering trees,
Soft chequerings on ancient sward,
The peaceful forest breeze ;
His lady, slender, sweet and gay,
Waited in twilight room
For his return from hound and spear
Through evening’s amber gloom.
They were the gentle visitants
Of visionary hours ;
They mingled with the loves and fears
Of childhood’s happy bowers —
His sword is laid beneath his head,
His lady sleeps full fast,
And I salute them o’er the years,
Of all their race the last.
T.
J.H.
LITERARY STYLE
regard prohibitions. Trespass de-
I spite the notice. The dog may bite you ;
-A- ™ but you will have gained knowledge and
“tried your muscles.” “Lot’s wife!”
says T. de Yisan, “ it’s you who have given us a
grateful example of a spirit fine and large.
Never minding forbiddal, you would look
behind you. And immediately * you under-
stood so much that you were petrified with
the dazzlement of novelty.” Only the last words
are false, for a moralist wrote the story. Eve’s
tempter knew that defiance would make her
as a goddess. “Jane, Jane, you’ve brought
it on yourself. I can’t understand how ever
you came to marry that beast.” “Well,
Agnes... I think... it was curiosity. One of
his ears had such a funny piece out of it, and he
never would tell me how till I married him.”
So J ane knew good and evil, and was most miser-
ably happy.
J*
De Yisan is talking about the classic French
“clarity” of style, and denouncing Boileau’s
dictum—
What’s clearly thought you clearly utter,
And when you speak you never stutter.
Denouncing it, that is, if the formula be taken as
a standard of good work in literature. Dryden
thought Horace, who long before Boileau de-
manded lucidity, lacking in “pointedness of
thought ” ; and De Visan says A. France and
J. Lemaltre, acclaimed as classics, want “funda-
mental brain-work.” “For poverty of thought is
always accompanied by an anaemic style pleasing
to the ignorant crowd, who wish to understand
without reflecting and hate all complication.
Contrariwise, abundant intellectual life is matched
with a style richly-coloured and tumultuous.”
A thesis interesting and...untenable. For the
critic confuses categories. He is concerned with
two of thought: clear, and rich or poor; two of
style: clear, and rich or poor. Boileau said that
clear thought implies clear style. This, De
Visan would not deny, nor the converse that clear
style implies clear thought. But, he suggests,
the French are apt to believe that clear style
means ri c h thought: which is unwarrantable.
Agreed. Then 10, he blunders likewise. “Poor
thought means poor style ; rich thought means rich
style.” But we were talking of clarity. De Visan
has shifted ground. His application to A. France
and Lemaltre is equivalent to contending that
clear style means poor thought: a fallacy like
that he combats.
In thought or style there are two things to con-
sider : matter and energy. As in high philosophy,
these may be essentially identical; but their ap-
pearances are not identical. Because like breeds
like, the expression of a rich mind will be
usually rich ; the expression of a ppor
mind will be poor. So far one is with
De Visan. And because like breeds like, the
expression of a clear mind will be usually clear ;
the expression of a confused mind will be con-
fused. So far one is with Boileau. And Boileau
is not opposed to De Visan, and De Visan is not
opposed to Boileau. But you cannot go farther.
You can argue neither from clarity to riches, nor
from clarity to poverty, nor conversely. Many
minds accumulate rich material which they cannot
clearly arrange : for lack of controlling energy.
Tne sound and fury, the colour and variety, of
many 'other minds signify nothing : for lack of
“ fundamental brain-stuff.” So through the per-
mutations.”
Rich style or simple is a matter of taste. Clear
style is obligatory, if you would not waste your
thought. Think clearly, therefore, that you may
write clearly. But think fully also, enrich your
thought, that you may have a worthy load for
your admirable vehicle. It is prohibited to have
a barren mind. It is prohibited to have an obscure
style. But don’t regard these prohibitions.
Trespass, and let the editors and the publishers
bite you. Then, having earned your own wisdom,
prohibit yourself.
“In the whole course of my professional
observation, now covering a period of more than
sixty years, ” says Dr. A. N. Bell, of Brooklyn,
U.S.A., “I have never known a family or an
individual that was brought up on a liberal
supply of butter and bacon, who became tuber-
culous. Moreover, such food fortifies the system
against other diseases, as well as consumption.
It establishes stamina.”
RECENTLY PUBLISHED
GEO. BELL’S “York Library” must be
held an exception to the general con-
demnation of foolish little books: for
the reason that the publisher has come
near to making the ideal pocket volume. That
is not easy to achieve. The difficulty is to
get the exact shape, the exact size, and the exact
binding to make a book feel “slippy.” “He
slipped a book into his pocket ” is a familiar
phrase ; but the world is full of “ pocket volumes ”
that won’t slip : or that, being in, don’t distribute
rightly the right weight. Too little weight
is as grave a fault as too much : you
want a book that will balance with pipe,
match-box, and one &c. in the other pocket.
Square books are objectionable, for they get lost
in the pocket and cannot readily be drawn out.
Covers are often too thick even when they are
thin. And with such conditions a publisher has
to fit paper and type : the one fairly dense without
being too bulky ; the other thin-leaded bourgeois,
old style, with a heavy face. The “ York Library”
uses long primer ; and the measure is a trifle long,
reducing the margin. Still, we have tried
Marcus Aurelius; and his wisdom in de-
spising poetry and rhetoric is very legible.
Another book to hand in the Library is Mrs.
Jameson’s Shakespeare’s Heroines: so Early-Vic-
torian, so admirable ! No one nowadays can write
solid essays like those, with every idea valued and
every phrase conned. There must be in Mrs.
Jameson s judgment a finality which matches
their overpowering air of finality : since they sur-
vive and thrive, outshining the sparks of skittish
wits. Propriety, decorum, all the “ female vir-
tues” breathe from those pages, inexpugnable in
crinolined, virtue, upon which so many “ daughters
of Albion ” have been nourished. And they lie
cold like pudding on the soul.
The Diseases of Men and Women, by Dr. Martin
(Syd., Ambler ; 7s. 6d.) is a rival to Dr. Muskett’s
“epoch-marking” work on the same subject, and
makes cheerful reading for the people with the
diseases. Dr. Martin has taken a good deal of
trouble and apparently a good deal of other
people’s trouble. He writes or quotes brief
descriptions of nearly all the diseases we know
and many we have never heard of; tells briefly
how they may be treated ; and supplies assorted
prescriptions which (530) he warns you not
to take, a glossary of medical terms, and
many attractive pictures of diseased people.
His book is made for laymen (vi) and also
for “ the young ‘ medico ’ ” (vii); and we fear it
has fallen between two audiences. For the young
“ medico” will surely rely on standard text-books
of greater scope; and the average layman will
not comprehend half what Dr. Martin has
printed, and will be apt to misapply the lesser
half. For, since Dr. Martin admits that it
requires medical knowledge of a “case” to pre-
scribe properly, why give the layman prescrip-
tions? And the glossary is far from complete,.
E.g., the termination of dengue eruption is “by
lysis” (31). What is “lysis”? The glossary
does not say. “Desquamation follows.” The
glossary is silent about “desquamation.” The
chapters about heart-disease are full of unexplained
words: e.g., “tricuspid” and “sigmoid” valves,
“stenosis,” “ensiforai,” and scores more. Surely
these chapters are not written for “the population
that has to depend largely on itself and its own
resources for medical aid and advice ” (v), since an
advanced medical student would have to read them
carefully to fathom their meaning. No ; Dr.
Martin’s book is not to be commended for laymen:
the Bush Medical Guide has. yet to be written.
Much of the matter has no special reference to
Australian conditions. Much of it may be useful
to those who know how to use it.
A. T, Strong, an expatriated Australian (he is
son of whilom Prof. Strong, of Melbourne
University, and was born in Melbourne fewer
than thirty years ago) publishes the little volume
of verse that Australia expects from every son
who does his duty. The title is Sonnets and
Songs (Edin., Blackwood) ; the contents rather
formal student’s verses, translations and the like.
These are written with literary appreciation and
without any influence from that potent Muse who
makes one local bard tear off his clothes and
writhe naked on the floor in travail and mortal
sweat. (His readers writhe in their clothes...
laler on). This ballade holds one of the few
references to Australia.
A new magazine, The Red Funnel, makes its
appearance in Maoriland ; and is the best imita-
tion of tlie popular British magazine yet seen here.
It is published at Dunedin by the Union S.S. Co.
of N.Z. ; but this, writes the editor, “is really an
incident. The Company, realising the necessity
for an up-to-date popular magazine in Austral-
asia, undertook the wore that others with less
enterprise failed to see the necessity for.” The
literary contents are various and liberally illus-
trated ■; and the magazine is turned out so attrac-
tively that it does credit to the manager and printers.
BALLADE OF LONDON TOWN.
I love the gloves; I love the foils ;
l love Dunbar ; / lone Verlaine. •
I love the scent of Eastern soils ;
I love the glow of Western grain ;
r love the 'wine that pricks the brain ;
I lO“B the weed that lags the f rown ;
I love the sea, the ever-sane—
I love the lights of London Town !
Where thin and slow Campaspe coils
Athwart the burnt Australian plain,
The white flame leaps, the billy boils,
And tongues arc free and hearts a re fain—
But o’er themopoke’s dread refrain
As sheer the Southern night slips down
The City’s call swells clear again—
I love the lights of London Town !
Our London hath us in her toils.
What recks the eye of fairy Spain t
What recks the heart of Asia’s spoils l
The joys are drear, and dross the gain.
Give me my dank and dear domain ;
I love the Courts, the Templar’s gown —
I love the rush, the roar, the. rain,.
I love the lights of London Town !
l’envoi.
With alien loves I strive in vain
My utter love of thee to drown.
Dear City mine ! for peace or pain,
I love the lights of London Town !
FLOTSAM
WS. GILBERT is said to be meditating
revision of his ballads and songs on
• the ground that many of the allu-
sions are worn out of date. Possibly
we shall find “ Tit-Willow ” reading like this ;
J.B. writes :
Girolamo Nerli (his death was reported recently,
but the report was followed by a contradiction),
was the cleverest artist ever in Australasia. The best
twenty years of his life he spent in these countries.
Referring' to Nerli, W. L. Lister said he was “ one of the
cleverest men ever here ” ; A. D. Rubbo : “ Ah, Nerli, he
is a master ; the rest of us are but students ” ; Frank
Mahony : “As regards art, I owe more to Nerli than to
any other man.”
From local artists Nerli got little encouragement to
stay in Sydney. The snubbing he received from the
N.S.W. Gallery Trust was due apparently to the fact that
he did not stoop to ingratiate himself with either of the
art cliques which influenced the purchases of the
Trust. Nerli’s great portrait of Robert Louis Stevenson
was pronounced by the Illus. Lon. News to be better than
Sargent’s well-known portrait. It passed from Nerli for
a trifle, and is now the cherished possession of a Scottish
Gallery. At local shows in 1899-1900 his “ BohOme,”
“Oosette,” “A Native House near Appia,” and “In the
Days of Rome,” when exhibited, were passed by N.S.W.
trustees, who spent nearly 10001. on work far inferior.
The trustees have “A Study” signed “G. P. Nerli,” for
which they paid 121. 12s. : this picture, however, was pur-
chased in a way that brought neither credit nor cash to
Nerli. He had di sposed of it for a trifle, and it was afterwards
bought by the Trustees from a dealer. It was a specimen
of the work of his student-days, and on his own confes-
sion contained more of his master’s work than his own.
“ The Veteran,” by A. Rubbo (a painter who gratefully
acknowledges his debt), indicates better what Nerli was.
The fine colour, spirited handling, the masterly treat-
ment of the hands (surprisingly similar to parts of “ A
Study ”) are reminiscent of Nerli at his best.
Local painters gave Nerli the cold shoulder. Six years
ago N.S.W. Art Society rejected his application for the
position of instructor in favor of Mahony, by one vote.
The vacancy occurred again in 1902, but about that year
the moral tone of the Art Soeiet3 r was at its lowest, and
Nerli’s application was hopeless. Disappointed, he went
to Melbourne, and existed there for a time ; then, inherit-
ing his father’s fortune, left for Italy.
Nerli never at any time said much about the respective
merits of Australian artists. He, however, placed Mahony
and Fox on top : “ The first had most genius; the second
best training.”
Etienne Lamy, the new French Academician, is
one of the solid, respectable workers better known
in their own country than beyond. Maurice
Barres, who was Lamy’s chief competitor, is more
familiar to us, but he received only twelve votes
to Lamy’s twenty-one. En. le Bergerat was a
third candidate pour rire, with two votes
only. The election has set afloat the
old anecdotes regarding what happens at
the formal visits that an Academy candi-
date must *pay to the Academicians whom
he yearns to call brothers. “It is a road full of
thorns,” says a chroniqneur. True, some of the
judges endeavour to put the postulant at his ease.
Mezieres is always affable, Faguet is simple and
cordial, and good-natured Coppee—white waist-
coated in summer, woollen waisc-coated in win-
ter ; cigarette eternally, in his lips—is always bon
enfant and charming. But Thureau-Dangin,
stiff and cold, listens without saying a v -rd.
Brunetiere is peevish and nasty; Bourget critical
and scrutinising ; Loti distracted and absent-
even when by chance he is present; and Sorel is
impassible.
Some of the Academicians invariably promise
their votes to every candidate who presents him-
self. Others will adduce regulations which pro-
hibit them from making a promise. A third class
take refuge in vague formulas, such a*. “Well,
sir! I need not assure you of my sentiments for
yo u’’—formulas which leave room for all hopes,
and lend themselves to all interpretation's.
Leconte de Lisle had a specialty in “ nasty jars ”
which cut arms and legs from the people he didn’t
like. It was he who one day welcomed a writer
who had presented himself with a baggage of
twenty volumes, with this kindly remark:
“Strange, my dear sir ! I have never read any-
thing of yours. Doubtless you wish to represent
among us not men of letters, but men of
fashion? ”
Haldane Macfall’s Whistler (Edin., Foulis ; Is.
net) is a pleasant and possibly too enthusiastic
essay on the life and work of the Master. “ Mis-
tress” might better have suited his whims. The
illustrations of four pieces of Whistler’s work are
very well made, and one becomes quite sure the
“ Carlyle” is unsatisfactory. It is essentially a re-
statement of the “Mother,” but the artifice is more
obtrusive, and this time does not match the sub-
ject. The obvious intention of the pose displeases.
The Carlyle of Sartor Resartus and Past and Pre-
sent cuts a poor figure as 1 an incident in a Whistler
decorative scheme—jammed against a wall, with
his coat bouffant, and his cloak carefully draped
over his legs, and his hat falling off his knee, and
the juxtaposed pictures balanced against his head.
It is all false, insincere, an image of the eternal
Sham that Carlyle spent life in denouncing.
On a tree by a harbour a green cockatoo
Sang “ Willis ! Nick Willis ! Nick Willis ! ”
And the crowd who had gathered (for they were green too)
Said “ Willis? Nick Willis ? Nick Willis?”
There were land agents, sea agents, statesmen (of sorts)
And afeio real a-ocodiles cold from the courts,
And they groaned as their tears fell in gallons and quarts,
“ Nick Willis ! Nick Willis ! ! Nick Willis ! ! ! ”
O, the cockatoo croaked as he sat on that tree,
Singing “ Willis ! Nick Willis ! Nick Willis !
This here Noo South Wales with my health don’t agree
Any more than it does with Nick Willis’.
For a creek must run into the sea, so they say,
And the West is a-callin’ me more every day,
And my grandmother said where’s a will is away
And Willis! Nick Willis ! Nick Willis!
“ There’s Tom Hassall’s mission, it needs me and you
And Willis ! Nick Willis ! Nick Willis !
To help in converting the heathen Zulu
With Willis! Nick Willis ! Nick Willis '"
Then he winked at the crowd, did that green cockatoo,
And he spread out his green wings and westward hsflew,
And if I had the.. . money I’d fly away too
With Willis ! Nick Willis 1 Nick Willis!
JETSAM
OME more of Alfred Searcy’s Northern
Territory yarns:
V—/ Alligators’ nests are made on the banks ot
creeks and rivers, and the eggs are hatched by
natural heat. [There is a good deal of "natural heat in the
North—everything is warm there ; and everybody.] S.
remembers a man at Southport who had a lot of ’gator
eggs given to him, which he put away in a drawer, and
forgot all about. One evening, hearing a noise, he
opened the drawer, and found a lot of little alligators.
The Chinese have no fear of alligators. When on the
Roper River, the Chinese cook would persist in bathing
in the river, saying “ Alligator no touch me!” Being a
good cook, we were anxious about the Celestial, so
Captain Carrington told John if he caught him over the
side again he would put him in irons. If he had not been
such a good cook, we would have looked upon it as rather
an interesting experiment.
A hint: if ever you are caught by an alligator, put a
finger in each eye. That will make it open its jaws,
and then you make the most of your chance. There are
several known instances of the escape of niggers by that
means.
Alligators prefer their food high, so the chances
are, if you are caught, you will be deposited on
the bottom somewhere under a snag, or with a
stone carefully placed over you to keep you from
moving. There you will gradually ripen until
you are a Dream. The alligator will come and
test you every day, and bite off a little bit to see
whether you are high enough. When you are
high enough he will bite off the whole. (This is
not all in S.’s yarn, but you can read it between
the lines.)
When on the surface of the water, and not moving, an
alligator looks for all the world like a log of wood. 1 have
been deceived several times. Many years ago at Port
Darwin a police trooper found the difference. He swam
off to a log of wood—which opened its jaws, and it was all
over.
The niggers fight the big log of wood with a
little log of wood—a stout stick which they ban
shove down the alligator’s throat. They carry
these sticks when crossing the rivers by swimming.
At Port Essington I saw Jack Davis, an aged nigger,
preparing a good meal. A lot of alligators’ eggs had been
brought him, the concents of which Jack extracted in the
manner we have been told that we can’t teach our grand-
mothers. He put the mixture in a basin—
—and the funeral proceeded.
On one trip, the niggers displayed great curiosity,
thoroughly ii.specting us and our clothes. One man evi-
dently thought I was a good subject and overhauled me
properly. When he came to the revolver he touched it,
threw his arms around, and said “Booml Boom!
Boom 1 ” He had evidently been in touch with civiliza-
tion.
On the Roper River, at a shanty, S. met rum
30 o.p. He knew it was 30 0.p., because the pro-,
prietor had tested it.
Upon my asking to see his hydrometer, he cut, off a
small piece of bacon fat, dropped it into a glass of the
rum, and the fat went to the bottom like a stone, the
man remarking that that* was the way he always tested
the strength of spirits.
The Scotchman’s drink:
Stopping at a camp, it was necessary to get something
to clear the bronchial tubes. There was one great Scotch-
man among the party, who said, when I asked him what
his poison was, “ Weel. I’ll just take a tin ef fruit.” He
had a tin of pineapple. Now the price of preserved fruit
at that time and in such a place was something to make
you sit up, so that Scotchman scored.
“The Catastrophe in a Greek play is the point
at which the ‘ good man with a slight fault ’ is
laid low by the stern law of cause : in the evening
papers it means that a cricketer is out for a ‘ duck. ’
Such is the growth of words.”
John Long, an amiable Lond. publisher, sends
a set of “new and popular novels,” in one of
which a casual eye meets :
His arms closed fiercely upon her ; staggering under the
weight of her delicious body more from intensity of emotion
than for lack of physique....
Why can’t men write like that ?
♦ ,
Poems by “Julien Gordon” (Mrs, Van Rens-
selaer Cruger) come from Sidney Appleton (Lond. ;
3s. Gd. net). These are an emotional woman’s
verses, not without sincerity and some vigour of
expression. They lack originality and indivi-
duality. Quote “ Lines ”:
LINES.
Oh, thou wert horn to rule, and not a slave—
To be thy passions’ king, not minister !
No base alloy should mingle with the gold
That shines, a breastplate, on thy princely heart,.
No marring thought should ever leave its sign,
Nor in the vision of thy piercing eye
Should stir the lightest fleck. Else ’twere as when
On some majestic boulder trashed by tides
A caitiff hand hath scrawled an unclean word.
We dedicate these lines to the Hda. Sir Josiah
Symon, K.C.M.G., Q.C., in sorrowful commemo-
ration of the “ inauguration ” by the hew Ministry
of Chief Justice Griffith’s new shelves.
A Woman and Her Talent, by L. J. Miln
(Edin., Blackwood ; 2s. Gd.), is a readable story;
and the chapters on girls’ life at an American
college have for us the charm of novelty. The
interest is well packed, too : there is very little
that can be skipped ; and a woman’s psychology
of women is always attractive. We like to think
that the author wrote the feminine reference to
a rosy Attic beauty throwing off her “ per-
Elum ” (72). The heroine is an American girl who
as no t been spoiled by higher education : she is
a literary genius, indeed ; but then she is a beauty
as well, and the most enchanting and most prolific
of wives and mothers. In proof, she gives the
first (bad) husband several children who, for the
convenience of the second (good) husband, have
to be killed off in their bloom. If the novel and
the heroine were not so warmly feminine, one
might feel some sense of strain here ; but the
author carries us away—to India, with a new
family and more books in prospect, and all ends
prolifically.
A.O.S.


WINCHCOMBE, CAR
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen^
SYDNEY.
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
resolutely the Best Salesmen.
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
RUGBY OBi. ASSOCIATION.
V roval
W Mm
''Onrß^
X
tit
m
wmW
'M
m
ms?
mmV 0
fptfA
AW
. - / w
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON’S “ Royal ” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“DIADEM” Buttonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association Match only, 15/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY.
s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 .. each 2 3
„„„ 2 2 9
„„„3 „ 3 6
„ „ „ 4 ~4 3
~ „ Match II ~ 6 0
ASSOCIATION. s. d.
Solid Leather, No. 1 each 2 6
2 ~3 3
3 ,39
„„„ 4 4 6
~ ~ Match 111 ~ 6 0
Special Youths’Match Ball, Best Quality.. ~ 14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4, 3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (Imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
s. d.
No. 1 .. each 1 0
„2„ 1 4
’3„ X 7
„ 4 1 10
s. d.
No. 5 each 2 3
~ 6, Association only 2/9, 3 3
~ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber each 3 3
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES. Shin Guards.
s. d.
Stout Twill, with tapes pair 1 0
Stout Twill, straps and buckles .. .. „ 13
Basil, leather straps and buckles 16
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps 2 0
Gold Cape, straps and buckles .. .. ~ 2 9
s. d.
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps pair 3 0
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads „ 4 0
Same as above, larger size 6 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Rugby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIN BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS INFLATORS— Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS— White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
JERSEYS —Men’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in single colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal, .
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
3/6
Handicap STANbAtto
6/- 7/3
Ascot
. 2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
BLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25 s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Soz. Fighting
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s Gd set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
34
14
5 10
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Game.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
-10/6 IS.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
/
/
PUNCHING BALLS,
Swinging Ball, complete, with hest
quality Red Rubber Bladder—
-7s 6d, Xls 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s Cd,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
SPECIAL NOTICE
The Celebrated
if
MAINE ”
RIFLE,
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jib.
THE MAINE
Pifle
Shewing Pifle Apart.
Price IG/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S. W., 1/3 J INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
CONICAL BALL
Gun Cartridges.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
~ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Rifle ..
~ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s Gd
Is Od 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is Gd 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
KSAAG
HOLLIS
& SONS’
mm
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
j 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Keal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Pore-end,
chambered for 2jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMIVIERLESS GUN, 12.
gauire top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s” steel barrels, both choke, side
automatic safety bolt, extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
Greener cross bolT, neatly engraved, chambered for 2fin. cartridges. . GUARANTEED FOR
ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the flnest-quality Gun m the States ..
£l2 12s
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in lour seconds, weight
5 jib, .. ... ••
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gaugCj top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. &E. fore-end, pistol .m.
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. .. ••■wO
I
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifie
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b. 15s
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 CaL R.F., peep or V s. d.
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2§lb. . 18 6
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3Alb 16 6
fPfr* Illustrated Sports, Fishing; Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Corner Ceorge & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 769. Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall
and .Post Office, and within a stone’s throw of all the theatres.
TARIFF FOR ROOMS ONLY.
F ° r ° ne Guest ’ 2/6 P er da y> or 15 /- Per week.
BOLTBLE ROOM : For Two Guests, 5/- per day, or 30/- per week.
BOARD and RESIDENCE TARIFF.
~ r ° ne Guest (with FllU Board )’ 6 ‘ day, or 30/- per week.
DOUBLE BOOM : For Two Guests (with Full Board), 12/- per day, or £3 per week.
Prompt attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made
this the MOST POPULAR HOUSE IN THE CITY.
Hotel Entrance : MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
m a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
2 1 -inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
9ft
.
C| C
mmmm
\j\\&
BY
ROYALTY.
Prevent worn-down heels and unshapely boots. Make one pair of boots
wear as long as two. Reduce fatigue, give grace to the walk and make
every step a pleasure.
Obtainable retail from all Storekeepers and Boot Stores throughout the States.
Wholesale only from D, & W. MURRAY, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Kalgoorlie, Launceston, Townsville, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane, Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers o) ths Wood-Milne Heels— REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prtparod only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNGK,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Sc. , everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH,
In a i!/^ iVate ’ Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
ot Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
HI . ftg TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
”BL m ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS
■Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, boat Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia,, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. tz 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
“ , ® Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Bloocf
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6, Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
m gaIHnmPn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23 6.
WtSdH numen Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA FILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
LEICHHARDT TESTIMONY.
EVERY LOCALITY SENDS ITS TRIBUTE.
The Case of Mrs. A. YOUNG.
(By a Sydney Reporter.)
The principal feature for us of the
stories of adversity which have been
the lot of others is that they give a
clue to the manner in which similar
experiences can be effectively dealt with
if they come our way. Here is a nar-
rative which will assuredly put many a
reader on the right track—one supplied
to us by Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-
street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs.
Young’s present address, where she has
been living for the past eleven years,
that our special correspondent was
granted the interview which appears
hereunder : 1
“I’m in search of news,’’ said the
newspaper man. “Do you mind letting
me know something about the afflic-
tions you encountered whilst living in
Bay-street, Glebe ? That’s where you
were living at the time, I’m told ?”
“Yes,” answered Mrs. Young ; “and
it is thirteen years since I had the ill-
ness you refer to. Truly, the time does
fly. It doesn’t seem half so long ago,
for everything is as fresh in my me-
mory as though it was only yester-
day. Oh ! I was unwell for a good
while. Hardly knew what to do from
one day to another owing to the feeble
condition I was in. Times being so
bad I could not afford to keep a ser-
vant, yet I was quite unable to get
about and do the work myself, and the
consequence was that things had to
take their chance.”
“Were you experiencing any physical
pain ?”
“Oh ! don’t talk about it. Have you
ever had neuralgia in the Imad ? I
hope not, for it was something dread-
fid. Right across the forehead,
through from one temple to the other,
and up to the top of my head, the
most acute pain imaginable harassed
me. The agony was so great that of-
ten I imagined something was pressing
on my brain, and I really used to
think I would go mad with it. It had
such an effect upon me, indeed, that
even my sight went bad, and as for the
feeling in my eyes—well, they felt as if
they were double the size they should
have been. Ah ! what desolate, me-
lancholy days they were ! I’m sure 1
felt myself to be about the most un-
happy woman in the world, and I
think I had occasion to bo in view of
the fact that the outlook was so
black.’’
“Do you mean that your prospects
of getting strong again seemed re-
mote T’
“They did, indeed, for I had been at-
tended to by several doctors, and the
most they could do for me was to give
just a little relief now and then ; but
there. was nothing lasting about it.
and if I felt a trifle better one day I
was sure to feel ten times worse the
next, and the medicine, besides being
so ineffective, was always disagreeable
to take. A strange thing was" that I
felt always so worn out, drowsy and
exhausted—as if I was only lit to go
somewhere and lie down and die—yet
when .1 made an effort to sleep, do you
think I could? Not a bit of it. I’d
twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dozed off
the dreams I had were fearful. T al-
ways appeared to be struggling against
something- that was holding me in its
clutches, hideous sights flitted through
rhy imaginative brain, and when J
woke up, which was usually with a
S? r .S V e n terribly agitated and
afraid Really, I used to dislike the
idea of going to sleep on account of
,^° se , c j, rGams besides. I never felt
basted afterwards, as I got up feeling
V/ore weary than ever. No wonder I
thought I would never get strono-
again, for I got absolutely no benefit,
whatever from any food T took. Soon
after eating I suffered dreadfully from
flatulence, the wind rising from the
stomach and leaving a sour taste that
was similar to the disagreeable flavour
I had in my mouth each morning ;
then, a little later, my chest became
painful and uncomfortable, with a feel-
ing as it a stone had got inside, and
had closed up the breathing passages,
for when I tried to take a Tong breath
it hurt me."
‘‘And you couldn’t get permanent re-
lief from these symptoms through the
medicine prescribed for you
‘‘.No, unfortunately. But finally 1 got
something to do me good. Clements
Tonic it was, and the best remedy I
ever had in all my life, too. Good-
ness, what a show it made of every-
thing else 1 had taken, for instead of
only easing me a little occasionally, it
went right to the base of my infirmi-
ties, and lifted them out by the roots !
In addition to what I’ve already told
you, I must state that I was highly
nervous—nobody could be more so, for
1 was actually afraid to stay in my
own house by myself, and was con-
tinually worrying myself about things
that I imagined were going to happen.
Trouble was always hanging, over me,
and I couldn’t get the idea out of my
head—not until I had been taking Cle-
ments Tonic for a space of time, when,
quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
over such silly things, and my mind
became as happy as the day. Oh ! it
was wonderful what an altered woman-
Clements Tonic made me. Instead of
being anxious and timid all day, I got
as happy and cheerful as possuWe—no-
thing frightened me, and my nerves
were steady. It is because I know of
so many nervous women that I deem
it my duty to say what a splendid re-
medy Clements Tonic is for that com-
plaint, thoughj for that matter, it was
equally benelicial to me in other ways,
I used to get pains down the small of
my back and about my shoulders, al-
so palpitation and pains in the region
of the heart, which made me think
that something very serious was
wrong with me there; but
Tonic showed itself to be such a paip'-
removing medium that I can faithfully
recommend it to all sufferers,
gulating influences on the heart, were
extraordinary, and for making',, one’s
sleep sound and peaceful, the . same re-
medy was the only one to njpet with
my requirements. T wish I hp'd used it
months before, for plenty of people
told me what a grand medicine,.Cle-
ments Tonic was, and—”
"How did you come to use it at
last ?’’
“I was laid up at the time, thin,
pale, and despairing, when I suddenly
thought of it, and I asked a friend to
get some. She did ; I regained my
health and strength through its in-
fluence over mo, and thus my worldly
happiness was restored. Never as long
as I live shall I forget what a good
regular appetite Clements Tonic gave
me ; how it stopped the giddy sensa-
tions that had troubled me from com--
ing back ; and how effectively it ended!
rny tormenting head and body pains*
Ihe least 1 can do is to assist my
neighbours to throw off their afflic-
tions, so you may publish my experj-.
cnees in any manner you like,’’
STATUTORY DECLARATION,
r ™ IE , YOUNG, of Myrtl;e-stroet,
Leichhardt, In the State of New
South Wales. Commonwealth of-Australia do
solemnly aDd sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing of five folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains aud
is a true aDd faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in anv
way my statements—which I give voluntarily
without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
ing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900
Subscribed and declared at Petersham
fifth day of September, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me.
H. EVANS, J.P. f
LADIES’ 00. GENT.’S
Watches (SL Chains,
Birthday RJ^GS
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets—FßEE
A Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs
from to £ io. Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Electine
Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box—a grand
remedyandcure for all impure and weak con-
ditions of the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
ders, a tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
| Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you
your prize. We are giving these watches and
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills.
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. This isagrandoppor-
tumty to get a fine Watch and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. You
o risk. Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A Few Remarks ■from the Department of Public Health.
Head Office, Wellinglon, N.Z., ibth May, 1905.
Gentlemen, —I have to acknowledge receipt of your formulae of “ Electine Kidney Bean.”
“ New Life, Blood, Tonic and Nerve Pill,” “ Electine Little Liver Granules” and “Electine Cold
and Headache Tablets.” I am glad to see that you are not ashamed to put your formulae on
the outside of each box. I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
The Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W. Dr. J. W. MASON, Chief Health Officer..
%
@y
*1 O**
t©


3$
(*5
&
i«
YE
“We are old friends, this bottle and
I. Wo have known each other for over
sixty years. When a boy I was always
taking cold, but a few doses of this
medicine would at once set me right.
When a young man I had a weak
throat and weak lungs. My friend 3
feared some lung trouble, but
Ayer’s
erry Pectoral
greatly strengthened my throat, cleared
uo my voice, and took away the ten-
dency for every cold to go to my lungs.
“Last year I had a bad attack of la
grippe. The only medicine I took was
from this bottle, and I came out all
right. I know it’s good, too, for
asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia,croup.”
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them I Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Two sizes. Large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
To His Majesty
The King.
GUARANTEED PURE.
“MOIR’S”
WORCESTER
SAUCE
Quality & Flavor Unsurpassed.
“ MOIR’S ”
GENUINE
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
It is the strongest Meal obtain-
able, Packed in hermetically
sealed tins.m-yl
and nourishing.
JOHN MOIR. AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY A&ENGY: 47 MACQUARIE SUREST,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
FIRST PRIZE
IN T 118....
8-hour^
ART UNION.
WHO WANTS «T?
£5OO FOR ISi
SECOND PRIZE, value .£lO9
THIRD „ „ .£3O
and 200 other Valuable Prizes. Total
Value, £l5OO.
DRAWN, OCTOBER 28th.
Someone’s Sure to Win.
Buy Your Tickets Eas-Sy.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper
on 2nd November, 1905.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all
Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee. 1
Trades Hall, Sydney.
"CONGREVE’S
BALSAMIC
•UXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS,
k COUCHS, COLDS,
Ik. CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALERS.
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price €3c3.., Peat Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
Sr
I*.
I have used Bonnington’s
Irish Moss for Coughs
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronchial tubes.
It always gives relief.”
ARE YOU BALD?-
“I firmly believe that If the children
were well fed our workhouses, gaols and
asylums, would soon be empty.”
—Sir JOHN GORST, M.P.
ONE CUP
Delicious OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Equals in nutriment J-lb. Beef or Ten Cups of
ordinary Cocoa.
And is absolutely free from all chemicals.
A.ids Digestion. Braces the Nerves.
Invigorates the System,
“It is able to support Life.”— The Lancet,.
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee th at
CAFILIiA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
u
./?
AV
7
v
7
/ ,
z
-£/ Z £i(isl
C 4
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish loss’
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of s ues will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BOiSININGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“ BONNINGTON’S”
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fate.
As far as I can see,
Tree following on tree,
An l shutting out the wavering line of the long
dusty track,
As far as I can know,
My years will grow and grow,
With never glimpse of those grey eyes that
laughed as they looked back.
Long miles and miles away,
Where green melts into grey,
He rode between the fences from the homestead
by the creek.
Had the chestnut mare not slipped
Where Sandy Valley dipped,
Perhaps I then had neve r felt those kisses on my
cheek.
The chestnut cast a shoe
(So Fate’s web grew and grew) ...
How clear behind the dark swamp oaks I saw the
sunset flame !
Against the new sliprail
I waited for the mail,
While he rode down the ridges with a weary hack,
dead-lame.
As evening shadows fell,
I heard a horse’s bell
Go jingling through the timber line, and jangling
down the range.
I coo-eed to the hollow,
Careless of what should follow,
I was wearied of the silent trees, and welcomed
any change.
Where stars of evening shine,
His grey eyes mastered mine,
And vows that never were fulfilled were whis-
pered to the breeze.
From mist-drift on the track,
Fie laughed as hs looked back . . .
And now there’s just my aching heart and trees—
and trees—and trees
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Even.
The clamor into silence pales,
Lamps into fulness bloom ;
Tiie passion of the night prevails
Over the hosts of gloom.
Winds on the grave of sunset dance
To an enchanted tune ;
The stars like cavaliers advance
To serenade the moon.
The mirrored lights from out the shore
In tremulous columns drown,
As peering into faded lore
Which ages trample down.
Along the sky-line ghost-lights play
Above the naked breast
Of strangled, unprotesting Day,'
Dead in the white-lit West.
Strange currents eddy towards the land,
Music from Faerie,
Elf-harps by airs of magic fanned
That wind and creep and flee.
Between the tree-boles hear them float,
Half-breathed and subtly hissed —
See, clutching at the water’s throat,
The fingers of the mist.
N.S.W.
GEO. G. WHITNEY.
On the Creek.
Tlie cliffs are lost in purple haze with misty tints
of green,
The naked, groaning giant trees have lost their
ghostly hue;
The hanging creepers in the hush, a vari-colored
screen,
Bend o’er the rocks and kiss the crystal waters
babbling through.
Leaping shelves of rock and mosses, there the
waters sing,
Rippling, dancing, hurrying downward to the
eastern sea,
Crimson leaves and shining quartz stones, to its
music bring
Underlying notes of comfort, notes that comfort
me.
Spray-wet boulders in the channel, as some regal
crown,
Flash their wondrous blending in each patch of
light and shade
Till the creek is nought but color, color chastened
down
To a theme of God’s conception, delicately made.
And the sombre fringe of foliage lends a harmony
To the quaint reflections growing in each limpid
pool,
Ringed by mosses soft and green ; mossy rock and
tree
In the gully’s tranquil depths’mid the shadows
cool.
Waters flowing to the ocean, chant your lilting
song !
Sing of peace and slumber, sing of laughter and of
joy !
Sing to those whose lives are pure, strangers yet to
wrong—
Those whose lives, untempered yet, have none of
sin’s alloy !
They’ll not know your words as I do—l who went
astray—
Know your song of hope, and know your notes of
sympathy ;
Yet my heart is lightened when I hear your music
play ;
From your words I’ll gather hope and face the
world to be.
N.S.W.
GORDON BENNETT.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or
Leasehold lilty or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian Statos or Now Zea'and
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fne. ° H
Directors—Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. VV Meeks, M.L.C., Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin- Short
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns. Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, JI.L.C. • F. E Wixchcomiir iron ’
M.L.A. General Manager and Actuary—Richard Teecr, F.1.A., F.F. A., F.S.S. ’ * ■ ■> - q-,
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FINNEY, ISLES & DO.,
Where the Western Drovers Go. &
(With apologies to “Banjo ” Paterson.) 9
"In my wild erratic fancy
Visions come to me of Clancy."
“BANJO."
“ Then if you should send an order,
We know you’ll wear with pride
Your SUIT AT FORTY SHILLINGS
That FINNEY’S have supplied. ”
Soon us chaps and good old Clancy
In Town turned out most swell.
In our TWO-POUND TOGS from
FINNEY’S—
The BIG BLOCK SUITS they sell.
The mailman stopped for supper
With us at Clancy’s camp ;
Dead gid.va we was burnin’—
We didn’t need no lamp.
There was some of us got papers ;
The Boss he got new boots ;
One chap got notes from FINNEY’S
About their BIG BLOCK SUITS.
Before he’d got half through them,
“Just hark to this ! ” he says,
By that dead gidya’s blaze.
“ If .you live ’way off in Brisbane
And a new suit you need,
In indigo-dyed serge,
Or in all-wool fancy tweed,
“ Will you drop a line to FINNEY’S
For patterns to be sent,
With inch-tape and directions
For your self-measurement ?
To obtain the benefit of style and comfort at a minimum outlay, you should wear the “ BIG BLOCK ”
CLOTHING. This is made specially to your measurements, in Fox’s Serge (Indigo Dvei and in TTio-v.
class Fancy Tweeds. SPBT" The Price is -3LO;- per Suit to Measure. ' °
The “BIG BLOCK ” SUITS hang- gracefully, fit perfectly, wear satisfactorily, YOU CAN’T BEAT
and are the Best Value in Made-to-Measure Clothing offering in Australia to day.
Send for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms. They will be sent you, POST FREE, on receipt of request.
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block, BRISBANE.
f. v'i •.?
VISITORS TO SYDNEY.
THE
Empire
PITT & HUNTER 3TS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, Government House
Circular Quay (the landing-place of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and within two minutes’ walk of
G.P.O. It is most elegantly furnished
throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted through-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies’ Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF: BACK ROOMS -- - from £2 2s. Weekly
FRONT ROOMS - - from £3 3s. Weekly
JAfIES JACKSON, Proprietor (Late Western Australia and Queensland).
Beanfifai Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOtIS” FIjOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent haidwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOEIN” AJjFSIINUM ENAMEI, gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
In or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPANESE PAINT (Heady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to a..y surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical ami satisfactory.
.For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations .
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER
Posted Is. Id,
Post Free.
HOW A HYPNOTIST
MADE A FORTUNE.
The Secret Methods by which Dr. X. La Motte Sage,
the Greatest Hypnotic Scientist of the Age,
Created a Tremendous Sensation.
He Firmly Believes Hypnotism a Public Benefit.
Has Donated £5OOO Toward the Free Distribu=
tion of a Handsomely Illustrated Book Con=
taining His Views and Suggestions on
How to Acquire this Mysterious Power
and Use It in Business, in Society,
and in the Home.
While the Special Edition Lasts a Copy of This
Remarkable Book Will Be Sent Free to
Any Interested Person.
Dr. X. La Motte Sage made a fortune out
of Hypnotism. He probably knows more about
the subject than any living man. His methods
are radically different from any ever before pre-
sented. By his new system he hypnotises people
instantaneously. He tells you how to exert
tremendous silent influence without making a
gesture or saying a single word. He gives the
only real, practical methods for the development
of the power of Personal Magnetism that have
ever been published. During all the time that
Dr. Sage wasJbefore the public he made it his
business to note carefully the effect of hypnotism
upon the human mind. He became convinced
that this mighty mysterious power could be
utilised to the advantage of ambitious men and
women who wished to better their condition in
life. To demonstrate the correctness of his
ideas, when he retired from public life he
founded a college where Hypnotism, Personal
Magnetism, Magnetic Healing, etc., might
be taught along the definite lines he had
laid down. The result is that the college has
grown to be the largest of its kind in the world.
Thousands of successful students in all parts of the
globe are living witnesses to the wonderful power
and the great practical benefits to be derived from
Dr. Sage’s methods. The Doctor has recently
wT?itSR-&-~bQok entitled “The Philosophy of Per-
sonal Influence,'’ in Which liS bsU? in plain, simple
language just how to obtain hypnotic power ana
the various uses to which it may be put. Among
the many interesting things upon which the book
treats are : How to develop magnetic power and
influence people without their knowledge; how
to cure bad habits and obstinate chronic diseases
when medicine and everything else in this line
fails; how to implant a command in a sub-
ject’s mind that he will carry out in every
detail a month or a year hence, whether the
hypnotist is present or not; how to hypnotise
people at a distance; its value in business ; marvel-
lous scientific tests how to prevent people from
influencing you ; hypnotic power more fascinating
than beauty ; the use of hypnotism in the develop-
ment of the mental faculties; controlling children ;
removing domestic troubles, &c.
The college which Dr. Sage has founded pro-
poses to give away £5OOO worth of the above books
absolutely free so long as the special edition lasts.
Any person who is in earnest can get a copy
merely by writing for it. This book is handsomely
illustrated by the finest half-tone engravings. It
tells you how the marvellous power of hypnotism
has been used to cast a secret mystic spell over
people without their knowledge, and how they
have been for months, and in some cases even
years, obeying the royal will of another. It gives
you the sceret of the development of what Senator
Chauncey M. Depew calls the money-making
microbe. Don’t think because you lack a fine
education and are working for a small salary
that you cannot better your condition ; do
not think because you are now successful in
life that you cannot be more successful. Dr.
Sage’s book has been read and his methods are to-
day being used by many of the richest men in the
world. They know the value of personal influ-
ence, of hypnotic power. If you are interested,
address a post-card to-day to the New York
Institute of Science, Dept. 22K, Rochester, New
York, U.S.A., and a copy of Dr. Sage’s book will
be sent you by return mail, absolutely free. This
is a rare opportunity tor learn the uses and possi-
bilities of the most wonderful, marvellous, and
mysterious power known to man. The book is
enthusiastically endorsed by the most prominent
business men, ministers of the Gospel, lawyers,
and doctors. It should be in every home ;it
should be read by all men and women in this
country who want to better their condition in life,
who want to achieve greater financial success, win
friends, gratify their ambitions, and get out of life
the pleasure and happiness which the Creator in-
tended they should enjoy.
Medicated
TABLETS.
THE GREAT NEW ZEALAND CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Catarrh, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption.
Recommended by the N.Z. Health Department, and
acknowledged by Specialists to be the Greatest Lung 1
Food of the day. Sold by Chemists at 1/6 and 2/6 tin.
If not obtainable, write, enclosing- stamps, to BJORNSTAD & STACEY, 91 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WILL ANDRADE ~BOOKS
NOVELTIES
3Dsnw
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Hintis, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZiNSARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-to-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donklly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks’ Reciter., Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Mapfadoen’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish,
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3'. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Flashlights oil Japan, by Dr. Maloney, 6d, post Bd.
God and Mr Neighbor, 9d, post Is. Tom Mann on
Socialism, 3d, post 4d. Shanty Entertainment, Is.
Botha er’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
18. Passion’s Paradise, ls6d. Stolen Sweets. Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, Is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Age of Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is.
2s 6d, and 6s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues : —No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6:
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
■3P
(OPPOSSTE
VSCTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Rentedg.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingdhstkk & Tkuman, of
71 Old Kent Road, London.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all 1
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists '
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys <
all Parasites of Head or Body. ,
SOLD IN TWO SIZES, 9d. & Is. 6d. (
N.B. —Insist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur. !
Prepared by Poingdkstrk A Tkuman, J
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all <
Chemists in the Australian Colonies. <
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by tb at justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST..
DR. RABONSKI, showing- sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castleraagh 3t„
SYIWET.
NERVOUSNESS.
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS ol SSLF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


Perspiration and Dust,
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
weather, can easily be removed by using
CALVERT’
CARBOLIC
Toilet
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
skin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
The London Treatment
FOR THE CURE OF
ALCOHOLISM and NARCOTISM.
THIS is a GENUINE Up-to-date and
PERMANENT CURE for the Excessive
Use of Drugs, and Drink Habit. This is the
latest and most satisfactory treatment that has
ever been placed before the public of Austra-
lasia, and is in no way connected with the
so-called Gold Cure. Pamphlet containing
full particulars will be sent post free.
Address : H. W. BUTTREY,
Home Bush, Masterton, N.Z
(P.O. Box 121 j Masterton, N.Z.)
£5
The Unbersal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
DiNNEFORDS’
MAGNESIA,
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ila avowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stiou
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODEM £2*lo' to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Elm
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Deliveped Freo
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, «-g . f? n
good as new, » TO cXm&IbSIJ
Great factory clearance sale at ha!ffactory prices.
CADI! IS nVOI C taking orders from sample
Cnflß! H UIULE machine. Active regents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily irade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. half prices,
MEAD GYGIE GO. Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
200
JUST TO HAND!
£2
BUSCH’S
PATENT
HIGHEST YET
JJTr/HHE/7.
SIZE;
‘imodmN/mmM
NyomuHj. mid^os
PRICE;
LOWER TURN ANY OTHER
FIRST CLASS MAKER.
CASE AND STRAP INCLUDED,
■r
VBflcmiLSJzero
yn£m<ED£r£>
JiJCfiE/ISC
OFPOWER.
! \o/aMETEnS,
<£ 3.3.0.
3/t
f
INCREASE
Of POWER.
6 omMETERS.
o €3/7.6.
INCREASE
OF POWER.
9 diameters.
£4.70.0.
INCXEXSE
.OF POWER.
, : 2Ci.t:icrEas.
<£SS.O.-
H®l.
N? 4.
M? 6
N? 9.
N°IZ.
F/G //?/, J/fr/VJ ACTUAL 5/ZEOF FIGURE TO TflE HFFED EYE '/f-M/LE OFF.
/ve? W, 6,9, Br!2, THE SAME F/OURE,SEENBYTHE VARIOUS POWERS OF TH/5 GLASS.
SUKv" H.C.SWAIN £,Ce, 12 Moore S!,SYDNEY.
A.E.R.
M
7
ss
v\
Not a penny down. Simply drop us a post-
card with your name and we will arrange to
forward yeu at once one of our latest Improved
High Grade Electric Belts free. You can use it
three months then pay us if cured, and the price
will bo only half what others ask for their inferior
belts. If not cured, you return the belt to us
at our expense and your word will decide. We
are willing to trust yeu entirely, knowing that
we have the best and most perfect belt ever
invented, and nino men in ten always pay
when cured.
WE WILL TRUST YOU
This modern Belt is the most perfect and complete ever invented. It will cure all cases
of Rheumatism, Varicocele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kidney, Liver and Stomach
Complaints, Nervousness and all weaknesses of men aud women.
WE WILL GIVE FREE
to each person writing us one copy of our beautifully illustrated Medical Book, which should
be read by all men and women. Drop us a post-card, and we will send it to you Free in plain
wrapper. If you are weak in any way, delay no longer, but write to-day for our splendid
Booic and Belt —Free. VVrite to-day, and ou will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co., Dept. m.
317 COLLINS STREET, IV! ELBOURNE.
N.B.—New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving- Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
1 4\
Brooches, Rings, etc.
GIVEN
AWAY
To persons of either Sex, sending us their Name and
Address we will forward Free 24 Packets of our
is Enamel Tooth Powder and a similar
number of Coupons. Dispose of these 24 Packets among
your acquaintances at the nominal price of Qd each, and
to each purchaser of a Packet give one Coupon, which
entitles that person to a Tooth Brush Free. The continued systematic use of this
Powder soon induces the growth of a Hard, White Enamel Surface on the Teeth,
and thus prevents Decay, removes Tartar and keeps the gums hard and healthy.
In addition imparts a Delicious Fragrance to the Breath.
We don’t ask you to iiust us. WE TRUST YOU.
Return the money obtained from the sale of our Tooth Powders, and ive will at
once forward you Fr&& any prize you may select from the premium list of Solid
Gold Articles which we send with the powders. This offer, made fora
limited period to extend our already large connection, is surely the most liberal ever
made by a Reliable Firm. Remember, out Prizes are not Rolled Gold, Gold Filled,
or Gold Pattern, but
(hall marked.) SOLID GOLD , (guaranteed.)
Writ* to-day
Free.
THE DENTAL SPECIALTY CO.,
A G piTT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORES AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
restores eyelashes*
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES. .
NEVER FAIL.S.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
MEN’S DISEASES.
Private, Nervous, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most successful
Speoialist. Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physician in Australasia.
m
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief; bub men who are weak
and despondent require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cures
are effected daily by Dr. W. Carter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
ftydney Institute of
Medicine & Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personally in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
by a forfeit of £250, and testimonials of hundreds of cured patients, not only in Sydney, but from every
town and village in Australasia. He invites you to call and have a confidential chat about your trouble. A
thorough examination and consultation will cost you nothing, and he will explain his methods or making
weak and diseased men Strong - , Healthy and Vigorous. It may be that you have been unsuccessfully treated
by numerous practitioners. That is not evidence that you are incurable. It means that the treatment was
administered unskilfully. DR. WATSON offers you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as it has
made of others.
Home Cures by Rfla.iL
DR. WATSON cures a great many patients every year
without seeing - them. This system of treatment is a
special and scientifically managed Department. If
you cannot call, write at once for a diagnosis blank which covers every symptom,
diagnosed as minutely and treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview,
work,
Your case can De
His great medical
“ MALADIES OF MA.NKIWD ”
is sent FREE to any address on receipt of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This large valuable work
contains 53 profusely-illustrated chapters on the functions of the human body, and properly-applied
Electricity as an adjunct to medicine.
FREE ADVICE.
REMEDIES
(including:
Carriage), • ■
Or. W„ Carter Watson, M.D.,
Etc.,
Etc.,
HOURS—
-10 to 5 Daily.
Evenings, 7 to 9
Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday.
Chief Physician and Surgeon
SYDNEY INSTITUTE of MEDICINE AND ELECTRICITY,
78 & QO BCiinter-st., Sytiiaey
THE
TjtUptij
THE
‘PLUM’
GENTLEMEN, —This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kind of
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can testify to
their merits. VVE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, specially made for this Razor, 7s. 6d.
“RAZOLEO” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
p / Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 213.
rRiCE R aZ or, in Ivory Handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, Ivory Handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and Sent Post Free to Any Part of the World.
Please add 6d. exchange on Country and Is. on Intercolonial Cheques.
SOLE agents: CRA/G & AiTKEN, 654 George St. f SYDNEY
New Zealand Loan « Mercantile Agency So.
Ltd.
SYDIVS IC.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
sess-'i-tfOi:' 1 . auiuqjrjiswwiMur
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, H 13353, TALLOW, aftfl MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff ef highly efßoient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Aocount Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC-
GUARANTEE. Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well-known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
CAUTION. .
TARIFF COMMISSION.
distilled from Wine only.
. The Public should insist upon having Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s original bottle arid white and gold label as
shipped by them from Cognac.
Extract from the “Lancet” Special Commission on Brandy: “ According to our view it is just as dishonest to desci: le grain spirit audits
congeners as ‘ brandy ’ as it would be to call margarine ‘butter,’ especially bearing in mind the medicinal app 1 '
brandy and its special adaptability as distinct from all other spirits for the purpose.”
THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE
Means Abundant Health, Energy, Vigorous Bodily and Mental Activity, accom-
, panied by Will Force and the power to compete with everyone in the battle of life.
! Is this your condition ?
WHY HAVEN’T YOU GOT IT?
Are your Organs Clogged, Weak, or Dilatory? Do you throw off the Waste Matters
sufficiently ? You can easily ascertain this, and Tone up the whole Digestive Organs
and Bowels by a course of
THE LUBRICATING
LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
The People's Ideal Aperient, Is. Box.
EASY TO BUY, EASY TO TAKE, PERFECT IN ACTION,
DOES NOT GRIPE OR INCONVENIENCE.
ALL CHEMISTS.
BUY A WATCH
BUT
1
11
£
% l /
Buy a
good one. It pays in the end. You want a
Watch that will give you perfect time.
H.B. LEVER WATCHES
are unequalled for Timekeeping.
Every Watch is Timed and Examined and
Guaranteed.
Price 21s.
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Nickel Silver or Gun Metal Cases.
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., BRISBANE.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES «>o<Lr»
'THAT ——
NESTLES MILK FOOD
IS A COMPLETE AND EASILY DIGESTED DIET FOR
fOC/y INFANTS and INVALIDS.
THE WHITE HALLF PAGE.
NEW BOOKS FROM DYMOCK'S
Books, we know,
Are a substantial world,both pure and good ;
Round these with tendrils strong as flesh and blood,
Our pastime and our happiness 'will grow.
—Wordsworth.
“THE BETRAYER,”
by Wm. Le Quex,
the author of
“ The Gamblers,”
“The Under Secre-
tary,” &c.
Mr. Le Quex’s new novel
contains as good a story as
any he has ’ yet concocted ;
there is all the old skill in
engrossing the reader’s at-
tention in the working out of
a plot, but beyond this the
greatest care has been taken in the writing of the
book, and it is not too much to say that it shows
the author at his best. Like Giant Paper, this
book has a durable ring about it.
“PATRICIA: A
MOTHER,”
by “lota.”
This new novel, by a popular
author, will be read with un-
flagging interest, and, like
Ruberoid Roofing, should
make its mark, for it is undoubtedly the best story
tire author has yet produced. The book has lots
of strength, and, like Ruberoid Dampeourse, is
free from faults. Patricia is a brilliant creature ;
an Australian of Irish extraction, tied to an exact-
ing husband, whose mother—a saint m pose—sets
him on a pedestal.
“THE YELLOW
WAVE,”
by M. P. Shlel.
“The Yellow Danger,” by
M. P. Shiei, was a remark-
able novel; but, successful as
it was, “ The Yellow Wave ”
is likely to be more so. It deals with the present
Russian-Japanese war. There is every possibility
of peace being proclaimed, but one of the most
terrible secret societies, working like white ants,
silently but surely, seeks to fan the expiring embers
into a new flame, and to envelop the world in an
awful struggle. Avenarius will exterminate white
ants, but is not sufficiently powerful to destroy
secret societies. How this was done, Mr. Shiei
tells with extraordinary power and vividness.
Browning said :
Books are men of higher stature,
And the only men who speak aloud for future times to
hear. - . - .
Bacon said :
Some hooks are to be read wholly and with diligence and
attention.
He must have alluded to the booklets onßuberoid
Roofing.
“ A SERVANT OF THE
PUBLIC,”
by Anthony Hope.
This is not a story of the
Theatre, but of the private
life of a famous actress,
showing how the occupation
and the temperament have the necessary effect on
life.- Without detracting from the excellent work
of the author, the best servant of the public we
know is Ruberoid Roofing.
" THE OLD COUNTRY,”
by J. H. M. Abbott,
> Author of
“Tommy Gornstalk.”
Messrs Methuen announce
that they will publish in the
early autumn a book of the
highest interest and import-
ance both to English and
Colonial readers. It is by the author of that very
popular book, “ Tommy Cornstalk, ” and is a series
of impressions of England and the English from
an entirely Australian point of view. Notwith-
standing the fact that there are stations or farms
in Australia not fenced with Anchor Fence, this
excellent fence is not common in England, conse-
quently no mention is made of Anchor Fence in
the book.
“MILLIONS OF
MISCHIEF,”
by Headon Hill.
Is a thrilling tale of Politics,
Plots, and Passions, and one
of the strongest and most
popular tales published for a
long time past. The term “Millions of Mischief v
is very applicable to white ants, but the ravages
■of those pests are very easily counteracted by the
judicious application of Avenarius.
Where are thy Hanging Gardens now,
O vanished Babylon ?
The Syrian goatherd tends his flock
Where stood Assyria’s throne.
Though Cyrus built for all he knew,
Nor haggled at expense,
He could not buy a single yard
Of famous Anchor Fence.
"‘QUEER LADY JUDAS,”
by “Rita.”
“Rita’s” new book is a
daring and original piece of
work. Whether her sex will
•appreciate such wholesale exposition of their
foibles .and vanities and frailties remains to be
seen. The story begins dramatically with the
efforts of an impoverished lady of social position
to establish herself in the business of a professional
masseuse. The “ Queer Lady Judas,” who gives
the title to the book, is her first client. From a
notion of her own she sets Mme. Beaudelet up in
grand style in Hanover Square, and sends her
numerous members of the “smart’’and fashion-
able world to be beautified and treated. Many
■old, leaky, galvanised iron roofs and tanks have,
■after treatment with Ruberine, been made sound
and good as new.
“CUTHRIE OF THE
‘TIMES,’” by Joseph
A. Altsheler.
This is a vigorous and stir-
ring tale of politios and
newspaper life, and Guthrie,
the main character, and a
fine figure, is a keen, resourceful and honorable
American, The storj of his achievements makes
the best sort of reading. Like Ruberoid Floor-
cloth, this story has a particular interest for
women. Perhaps the writer received his inspira-
tion from beneath the comfort and coziness of a
Ruberoid rOof.
“THE VIRCIN AND
THE SCALES,” by
Constance Cotterell.
Miss Constance Cotterell’s
new novel is noticeably off
the beaten track, since it is
about English persons, living
in an English county. It tells, with some humor,
the story of a romantic young woman of the ad-
venturous temper, who fears not to plunge into
the deep places of other people’s lives, and sets
out to steer love’s boat before she herself so much
as knows what love is. In vein this story is as
light as Anchor Fence, but the lightness of Anchor
Fence is its strength.
When Noah heard the doom pronounced
Of unregenerate men,
He straight devised an ark to keep
His family from the rain.
He tarred the structure in and out,
But many a throat grew hoarse,
Because the world was unaware
Of Euberoid Dampeourse.
«£*
“VIGOROUS DAUNT
BILLIONAIRE,”
by Ambrose Pratt.
Mr. Ambrose Pratt’s latest
hero appeals strongly to the
profound respect that modern
life pays to wealth. Vigorous
Daunt’s career is sufficiently startling in its inci-
dents and distinctive in its characterisation to
court comparison with Captain Kettle, Dr.
Nikola, and Sherlock Holmes, with whom he has
much in common. The author has spent con-
siderable time in Australia, and no doubt recog-
nises the excellence of Ruberoid as a roofing and
dampeourse, but does not say anything about it
in his book.
LINKED BY FATE,”
by Charges Carvice.
A book by Mr. Garvice
affects one much as a good
play does—for days after
■enjoying it one catches oneself piecing it together
and recalling the characteristics of its people, and
the elements of its situations It-would not sur-„
prise us to hear that the present story is to be
staged. Its plot is intricate, but far from con-
fusing. Briefly, it tells the details of an experi-
ment in matrimony. The marriage was insisted
on, for propriety’s sake, by a dying clergyman on
a desert island, where Ruberoid Roofing was un-
obtainable.
J*
AFTER IBID: The Tables Turned
Up ! Up ! my friend, and quit your books,
Or surely you’ll grow double.
Improve your place with Anchor Fence
And save much time and trouble.
&
“THE ROSE OF
LIFE,”
by M. E. Braddon.
Daniel Lester was a poet on
a grand scale, over six feet
three, with wide shoulders,
a large head, thick, brown,
curling hair, a vast forehead, the brow of a
philosopher and a poet, large grey eyes full of
power, but the rest of his face was unworthy of
the forehead and eyes, for here the second and
lower nature of the man expressed itself in the
thickness of the nose, the heavy moulding of the
lips, the large, loose chin sloping to the large
throat. So far as is known, lie never wrote any
verses about Giant Paper being recommended for
insulating the walls of houses to keep them
draught, damp and dust-proof.
j*
“THE BOCK
REVIEWED,”
by Himself.
A story is going the rounds
that one of the dailies wanted
a book reviewer. An appli-
cant who knew the book
world from A to Z offered his services. He was
questioned as to whom and what he knew.
“Knew everybody worth knowing, and every
book worth reading.” “ Do you know Thackeray?”
“Went to school with him.” “Know Capt.
Kettle ? ” “ Went a yateliing trip with him on the
Mediterranean.” “ Ever been to the Mill on the
Floss ? ” “I should say so—only about half a mile
from where I was born.” “Know George Eliot,
then?” “Intimately. He and I batched together
just before I left home.” The editor took his
name and address, but not for future reference.
“A QUIXOTIC
WOMAN,”
By Isobel Fitzroy.
How a weak man may be
forced into bigamy and how
a weak woman may be driven
to marry for money, how
some persons make a god of social position, and
how a domestic tyrant is often worsted in thejend
by his victims—all this and much more may be
learnt from this story. How to mend leaky roofs
and tanks with Ruberine is not given. Full par-
ticulars, may be had from E. Rich & Co,, Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von 26.—N0. 1329.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1005.
Prick 6d.
THE NEW COMER.
All the British battleships have now left the waters of Eastern Asia. Since the Japanese naval victory there is no need of them there.— News Item.
JOHN BALL : “I am taking all my battleships from these waters. This is your new guardian. I hope you’ll be fond of one another."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
** Ait strait u /or thr. A ust ml inns. 99
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 070
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
II otu to A ddress Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor mil carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed,. When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS,
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or ivash, of sufficient
me rit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.' —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
Messi's. R. A. Thompson A Co., 88 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal;
11. R. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia ; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., 28 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. — Brewer and Co.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 3, 1905.
THE N.S.W. POLITICAL POSITION.
The following, just lest their names should be for-
gotten, and they should miss the obloquy most of
them deserve, are the members (outside the Labor
party) who entered the present N.S.W. Assembly
on the assurance that they were against all bor-
rowing in the future —that they were resolved on
doing large things to bring about a policy of
honesty and self-dependence, and didn’t believe
in this generation selling the lands and spending
the money, charging its productive works to
loans, charging its unproductive works to loans,
charging its repairs to loans, and leaving to
posterity a wasted public estate, a gap where the
land revenue used to be, a staggering debt, and
some depreciated works worth about half the mort-
gage on them :
Joiix Gillies E. 0. V. Broughton
John Hurley Eden George
C. W. Oakes E. Richards
J. J. Cohen F. J. Thomas
G. S. Briner Thomas Jessep
S. J. Kearney David Fell
A. Millard Dr. Arthur
And the following, lest their names should be
overlooked and receive less derision than they
mostly ought to have, are the Labor members,
who are solemnly pledged to fight to the utmost
against all loan expenditure on unproductive
works, and against all loan expenditure on pro-
ductive works unless the works are so productive
that they will pay full interest on their cost and
something over for sinking fund :
G. A. Burgess Hugh Macdonald
J. H. Cann D. Mac Donnell
M. Charlton P. McGarry
J. R. Dacey J. S. T. McGowen
W. M. Daley J. McNeill
A. Edden J. C. Meehan
J. Estell N. R. W. Nielsen
Arthur Griffith P. H. Sullivan
R. Hollis R. Scobie
W. A. Holman G. T. C. Miller
A. J. Kelly J, B. Nicholson
T. H. Thrower A. Gardiner
Also this, lest the contempt and mud and decayed
egg which he so. well merits should miss him, is
the Premier, who pledged himself and his party
to cut down borrowing to £1,500,000 a year (say
£125,000 a month), and to less if possible, and to
nothing at all if it were feasible; and who
promptly spent over £1,800,000 of loan money in
his first year of office :
J. H. Carruthers.
* * * *
Also to finish the catalogue, this is some
of the proposed loan expenditure of N.S.W.
for two months (August and September), at
the rate of rather over £246,000 per month
(say £2,952,000 per annum), most of it for
works which have no ghost of a chance of
paying interest, all of it for works which have
no reasonable hope of paying sinking fund as
well as interest, and much of it for patches,
repairs, and works which will pay nothing at all:
Wharfage accommodation, Darling- Harbor, £25,000;
grain-shed and railway, Darling Harbor, £20,000 ; Manilla
to Barraba railway, £lB,OOO ; Temora to Barellan railway,
£55,000; Bogan Gate to Bulbodney railway, £21,000:
Narrabri to Walgett railway, with branch toCollarendabri,
£37,000 ; tramways generally, £3OOO ; penitentiary and
prison for females, £11,500; Hunter Hirer, bridge at
Donolly Ford, £1500; Richmond River, improvements,
£5OOO ; Neivca,stle Harbor, breakwater, £lO,OOO ; Lismore
sewerage construction, £2900; water supply, re-lining
and strengthening upper canal, £10,770; improvements,
Sydney water supply, Ryde, Wahroonga pumps, rising
main, etc., £25,000; storage tank at Beecroft, £4400;
sewerage, construction and ventilation generally of reticu-
lation, sewers, etc., £23,800; metropolitan water supply,
extension and improvement of general reticulation, etc.,
£39,000; extension of water supply, reticulation, New-
castle and suburbs, £5OO.
And this was rushed through in a night without
opposition.
* * *
It is now just about a year since N.S.W, elected
its “Reform Parliament” with a huge flourish of
trumpets, and it is the only mainland State, bar-
ring Westralia, which hasn’t reformed to some ex-
tent. Since last August the N.S.W. Parliament
has done almost everything except reform. It has
discovered that its Public Lands system is in a
frightful state of corruption, and it has gathered
together a suspicion that some of the leading men
in its Parliament are none too anxious that the
corruption should be fully inquired into. It has
reduced the payments to the Public Debt Sinking
Fund by £50,000 a year. It still lives to a great
extent on the sale of its public lands, and uses
about £1,000,000 a year of land sale money as
revenue. It is borrowing almost as much for
public works as it did before it was reformed;
and it is using just as large a proportion of the loan
money for revenue purposes, and spending just as
large a proportion of it on little current expenses
and on small patches and repairs, as heretofore. The
N.S.W. Assembly, in the aggregate, is still below
the level of the beasts that perish ; they at least
have some care for their offspring, while its main
idea seems to be that its own generation should
live comfortably by selling the public assets, and
by borrowing and loafing, and leave its children
to struggle with the hopeless debt and the shat-
tered revenue. On the whole, it seems as if it
might have been better if the State had had no
Reform last year. The new Reform seems to
smell just the same as the old disease.
* * * ■*
But still the N.S.W. Assembly toils hard in its
way. The following recent extracts from one
single notice paper, and only a few among the
multitude even then, show that, if it only struggles
with small things, it at least struggles consider-
ably :
Mr. Henley to move, —
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
and report upon as to what amount should he paid to Mr.
F. E. Stowe for a scheme, the design of which was sup-
plied by him to the Public Works Department, and
adopted by the Government for carrying the electric
trams safely to the wharf at Darling-street, Balmain.
Mr. Broughton to move, —
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
and report upon the suspension and claim of Robert
Roberts, late bookbinder in the Registrar-General’s
Department.
That the Progress Report from the Select Committee of
Session 1901, and the Report from the Select Committee
of Session 1902, together with the proceedings of the
Committees, minutes of evidence, and appendices, be re-
ferred to such Committee.
Mr. Sullivan to move, —
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
and report on the alleged claims of Tiiomas G. Wright
against the Inspector-General of Police’s Department.
Mr. John Hurley to move,—
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
and report upon certain claims alleged to be equitably
due to James Charles Thornton in respect to his em-
ployment in the service of the State in various positions.
Mr. Briner to move, —
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire and
report upon the claims of Mrs. Sarah Cunninghams, as
to the amount of compensation which she should receive
(1) in connection with her dismissal from the office of
Matron-Superintendent of the Macquarie-street Asylum,
Parramatta, (2) in connection with her retirement in 1904
from the office of Matron-Superintendent of the Shaftes-
bury Reformatory.
Mr. Thrower to move,—
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
and report upon the alleged wrongful dismissal of George
Bulkin and William Webber, from the Callan Park and
Rydalmere Asylums respectively.
Mr. Henley to move, That, in the opinion of this House, —
The nearest Monday to the 24th day of May be hereafter
fixed and proclaimed a Public Holiday in perpetuity—to
be known as “Empire Day” to fitly commemorate the
memory of our late beloved Queen Victoria, and in honor
of the birthday of the heir apparent, the Prince of Wales.
Mr. Briner to move, —
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire
into and report upon all matters connected with the
application for the re-appraisement of George Hardacre’s
conditional purchase 89-29, Grafton.
Mr. Broughton to move, —
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
and report upon a certain claim or demand alleged by
Mr. E. Ambrose against the Railway Commissioners.
Mr. Jenkins to move, —
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into
and report upon the causes which led to little Johnny’s
sore toe. (This hasn’t arrived yet, but it will come. All
the others on the list are genuine.)
It is a long list and a mixed one. Yet amid all
these demands for Select Committees there is no
call for the one that is most needed—a Committee
to inquire why the N.S.W. Assembly has prac-
tically given up being a Parliament and become
an errand boy, a handy man or odd-jobber, a
washer-up, a fussy old woman or Dorcas meeting,
or sort of Turkish bath attendant to personally
rub down constituents, a flunkey who says
“Yessir” and canters on little messages, a
potterer among unconsidered trifles, a maid of all
work—the despised Mary Jane or Sarah Ann
who hasn’t time to lace her frock up the back by
day and who sleeps under the stairs at night, a
thing that is below the general level of an aider-
man and a shade above that of a tarboy or
rouseabout. Nobody has ever yet proposed that
kind of Select Committee ; yet how badly it is
wanted a glance at the Parliamentary records will
show.
* * * *
When the present Assembly was elected there
seemed almost a hope of better things. Out of
ninety members there were 14 who were pledged
to the biggest and most definite financial reform
that N.S.W. ever heard of—the total abolition of
borrowing and the construction of public works
out of revenue. There were 24 more who were
pledged to less sweeping, but equally definite,
financial reform in the same direction. The rest
were pledged almost unanimously to at least a
very large reduction of loan expenditure and a
general reorganisation of finance. It is difficult
to see now by the results that there were
more than two men in the crowd who re-
garded their pledges as anything more than
a convenient lie and a handy hypocrisy.
In fact the pledges were ignored so com-
pletely and so unanimously that they hardly
amounted to hypocrisy. It seems to haye
been the view of almost the whole squad of mem-
bers that the promises amounted to nothing, and
that, as everybody was supposed to know they
amounted to nothing, nobody could reason-
ably complain. It appears to be understood in
N.S.W. that a member must make a decent pre-
tence of discussing principles and legislation once
every three years, but that the pretence is a mere
survival of a dead past. His business is to be the
local busybody or bumble bee; to act as every-
body’s agent and to get culverts; to rouse up Parlia-
ment about this constituent’s claim when he is
sacked from the Public Service for inefficiency or
impudence, or about that one’s selection which was
forfeited for non-payment; to be patron of local
cricket, football and hockey games, also horse
exhibitions and log-chopping contests ; to take the
chair at meetings and be a conveniently adjacent
person for the constituent’s baby or dog to be
named after; and generally to be the
village watchman, bell-ringer and sundry,
and the fatherly person who takes an
interest in Johnny’s sore toe. His position
was well defined by Pumpkin Smith when, a few
years ago, he urged a N.S.W. constituency to re-
ject Edmund Barton, because Barton was a great
and brilliant man—too great and too much occu-
pied with big ideas for making Australia rich,
happy and prosperous to harry the Government
sufficiently about whitewashing the local fence.
It was just as clearly enunciated, the other day,
by an indignant member, who held that land
agents should be abolished, and that the local
M.L. A. should attend to getting all his constitu-
ents’ little land jobs put through. That was put-
ting it in plain words that Parliament existed, not
so much that it might govern the country wisely
and well, and make it great and prosperous and
progressive, but that there might be in each dis-
trict an elected person to help the constituent to
hoist a heavy log, and to remark affably what a
fine infant the constituent’s baby was.
* * * W
The life of the average M.L.A. is a dreary
routine. He spends his days seeing constituents,
answering the frantic letters of constituents who
want little penny jobs done for them, or sitting
on some committee that he or some similar mem-
ber has got appointed to inquire into the reason
why constituent Samuel Biff lost his job. In the
evening he goes wearily to Parliament to ask why
another constituent was grievously wronged in
his dog-tax, and to demand another Select Com-
mittee to inquire why a third constituent was
arrested when he travelled without a ticket, or
was overcharged in the freight on his crate of
hens. When these things are over he takes a
well-earned rest, for man must sleep sometimes.
The Local Government Bill, which, if it is passed
in any decent shape, will revolutionise the
management of the State, can hardly get along
for want of a quorum. Being a mere matter
of government, it is of so little importance in
a Legislature whose real business is to get a
Select Committee appointed to take evidence
as to the reason of little Johnny’s sore toe, that,
though Local Government stands conspicuously
on the Labor platform, a prominent member of
the Labor party can denounce the system root
and branch without being called to account. A
huge fraudulent Loan Bill, filled with schemes for
using loan funds as revenue, can drift through
with hardly a dissenting voice, though it is a
gross outrage on the alleged principles of a section
large enough to stonewall it for six months.
There is no reason why it shouldn’t drift through
under the circumstances. If members had to live
by their political principles, and stand or fall by
them, they would have to take a live interest in
such matters, but they live by attending to the
small grievances of individual constituents, and a
man attends to what he lives by.
* * * *
In States where a comprehensive Local Govern-
ment system has removed a multitude of petty
matters out of politics, and where Parliament
never got so badly into the habit of being a
mothers’meeting as in N.S.W., things are occa-
sionally done. In Queensland the Morgan Govern-
ment, not being able to live wholly by fatherly
inquiry as to Sarah Cunninghame’s personal
grievance, sought to justify its existence by stop-
ping the deficit and running the State without
borrowing. In Victoria the Bent Ministry had
to do something apart from investigating the
reasons for the reappraisement of George Hard-
acre’s conditional purchase, so it stopped borrow-
ing, found £500,000 for public works out of re-
venue, reduced the old deficit, devised a scheme
of State brickworks and another for building a
new railway station out of taxes, put the railways
on a paying basis, and set to work to clean up the
stupendous muddle of the irrigation trusts. The
way in which it did some of these things might be
tyrannical and high-handed, but even the mere
doing of something is a blessing. N.S.W. requires
sundry radical changes to give its Parliamentary
system a new start. First of all it requires a
Local Government system so comprehensive as to
take the whole road, bridge, and culvert business
out of Parliamentary hands. Second, it badly
needs to abolish the whole system of Select Com-
mittees except on matters of public concern; if
Parliament must be a sort of police court, petty
debts court, arbitration court, and general cleaner-
up of things too small and intangible for even a
J.P. to inquire into, it shouldn’t clean up per-
sonally—the matters should be referred to a stand-
ing committee of civil servants, which no poli-
tician should be allowed to even approach. Then
it should be made heavily punishable for con-
stituents to bail up M.’sL.A. for aids, charities
or gratuities in any shape or form, or for
M.’sL.A. to dispense such. When the mem-
ber who lives by ventilating his constituents’
petty grievances was thus eliminated, likewise
the road and bridge member, and the member
who lived by buying popularity with donations to
football clubs. N.S.W. might at last get a set of
legislators who were driven to live politically by the
reputation they could make as capable legislators.
When that came to pass such questions as honest
finance, decent Lands administration, and the pro-
motion of industry might have a show. They
would at least have someone to attend to them,
and it might be that a class of men would go into
Parliament who took a real interest in matters of
the kind. At present the country elects men to
take an interest in George Hardacre’s conditional
purchase, and these men cast a glance at legisla-
tion in between whiles. When the positions of
Prime Minister and footman are combined it
always proves in the end that the occupant of the
joint billet is the footman kind of person—not the
Prime Minister kind of person.
THE FREETRADE PARTY AND AUS-
TRALIAN MANUFACTURES.
A few days ago Octavius C. Beale, a Sydney
manufacturer, accused the Freetrado press pf
‘ ‘ overt antagonism ” to Australian ipanufacturers,
and thereby roused Sydney Telegraph to a state
of fatherly reproach. The Telegraph deserves,
if it doesn't possess, the reputation of bpjng about
the most shamefully unscrupulous and unpatriotic
paper in Australia, but, all the same, its occasional
tone of shocked morality is inimitable. In the
present case it almost wept in these terms :
If for manufacturers we read manufacturers’ politics,
there is some truth in the allegation of overt antagonism,
but, as applied where Mr. Beale doubtless means it, to
local manufactures, it is an amazing mis-statement of
fact. So far as this journal is concerned, it has never
followed a policy of senseless belittling Australian manu
factures. But it has frequently opposed the efforts of
manufacturers to get themselves subsidised out of the
public’s pocket for making those commodities; and
the manufacturer, having failed—in this State at any
rate—to convince the public that it would be doing a
grand thing for itself by buying his wares at compulsory
high prices, sometimes tries to show that those news-
papers which argued the other way were inspired by a
violent objection to seeing their clients working. The
device is tactically ingenious, but scarcely likely to deceive
anyone whose judgment is uninfluenced by personal
grievance or other distraction.
And yet to most people who have studied the
situation, it might seem that Mr. Beale’s remarks
were rather mild than otherwise, and that if he
had denounced the bulk of the Freetrade leaders,
and their press organs, as traitors to Australia—
traitors as surely and as absolutely as any person
who was ever hanged on a dry tree in war-time
for selling his country to the enemy—he would not
have overstated the case.
* * * *
The Freetrade party in Australia —the party of
which the Sydney Telegraph is a blatant mouth-
piece—takes its tone from the importing class.
This class probably looms up more conspicuously
in Australia than in any other country on earth.
It is a class which is the enemy of Australian manu-
factures because they interfere with its trade.
It opposes, openly or secretly, by slander, fake,
dodge, subterfuge and innuendo, also by shoddy
imitations and fraudulent trade marks, every
attempt to create new Australian industries that
will break into its profits. It is better for the
importer that Australia should be stagnant as it
is now, than that it should become great and
prosperous by manufactures. It is better for him
that men should starve and women hunger and
children famish, than that they should be happy
and well fed by the growth of manufactures. It
is better for him that the country should be, at
some future time, annexed by and enslaved to the
conquering Japanese, than that it should build up
in the present a population large enough to
defend it by the only possible process—that
of creating manufactures to support a dense
population. It pays him better that Austra-
lia should be poor and in debt, yet should
buy what it can afford to buy from the
foreign importer, than that it should be affluent
and happy, and also so self-dependent as not to
require the importer. And as a rule he acts
accordingly, and talks accordingly, just as any
other person who finds treason pay better than
patriotism might do. And the papers which do
his disreputable work act and talk very much as
he does.
■**•*■*•
Australia has made a little manufacturing
progress in spite of the importer clan. Yet no
one who hears the well worn jeer about “ a few
miserable factories” and the wild applause about
the “great primary industries” would imagine
that the whole agriculture of the Common-
wealth, in the last year for which statistics
are available (1903), only turned out produce
worth £27,000,000, while the few miserable
manufactures were worth £29,000,000 to the
country. And while agriculture pays everybody
connected with it at the average rate of about £B5
a year, manufactures pay to those connected with
them on an average about £145 a year. But it is to
the profit of the importer and his newspaper
organs to blare ceaselessly, year in and year out,
about the value of “ the great agricultural in-
dustry ” as against the “ few miserable factories,”
and to urge the people to starve at the industry
which doesn’t interfere with the softgoods im-
porter rather than to prosper at industries which
tend to damage his bloated profits. One direct
sign of the hostility of the Sydney Telegraph
and similar organs to the Australian manu-
facturer is the constant booming of the hungry
agricultural trade in contrast to. and at the
expense o', manufactures. It is necessary to warn
the people off the latter if JoBKINS, who brings
into the country the woollen that is mostly cotton
and the tweed that is mostly shoddy and mungo,
is to prosper.
In N.S.W., which is the centre of Freetrade,
the most consistently coddled, State-aided, State-
bonused, State-propped-up of all industries is
agriculture. In the one matter of reductions in
railway freights it receives more Protection than
do all the manufactures of the State—apart from
those of liquor and tobacco—combined. The
“great natural industry ” of digging up coal also
receives enormous railway concessions. And one
reason why the whole Freetrade press, and
especially the Sydney Telegraph, can be
accused of direct hostility to manufacturing
industries is its persistent suppression of this
fact, while if a manufacturing industry gets a
quarter of the Protection through the tariff which
agriculture has enjoyed for years through the rail-
ways. the storm of denunciation is like the Deluge
falling all at once on a corrugated iron roof. The
manufacturer is expected to pay far better wages
than the agricultural employer. He is mostly
located in towns where he has to pay heavy muni-
cipal rates while the cocky pays none. He is
heavily taxed to subsidise the cocky and the coal-
owner—the whole railway deficit which has to be
made good out of taxation, and the whole reason
why the N.S.W. railways don’t show a profit
instead of a deficit, are, and long have been,
through the carrying of farm produce at ridicu-
lously unprofitable rates to keep the parasitic
agricultural industry alive, and, in a less degree,
through carrying coal at cut rates to prop
up another “great natural industry.” Also the
town manufacturer, in addition to paying for his
own road and culvert, is taxed to make the cocky’s
road and culvert. When the Telegraph and its
party boom the eternally State-aided farmer as
the fine, manly, independent backbone of the
country, and denounce the manufacturer—when-
ever he gets directly about half the assistance
which is surreptitiously granted to the other man
—as a parasite who wants to bloat himself at the
public expense, the hitter person has good reason
to assume that the object is to destroy Australian
manufactures. The object may be pursued partly
by direct falsehood, partly by innuendo, partly by
suppression of facts, but the intention looks con-
spicuous enough all the time.
* * ■* *
And when the N.S.W. manufacturer asks for
some of the State support so liberally handed out
to the farmer, the Sydney Telegraph, in par/iou-
lar, can be relied upon to denounce the proposal
as a mean Victorian scheme to subsidise “a few
industries round Melbourne,” or words to that
effect. The paltry inter-State grudges and
jealousies which it has always fanped sq asgidq-
ously %re roused to prevpnj; the N.S.W.’ njptu}-
facturer getting a hearing. The TiiLpGRAEHp
attitude constantly implies that there qtip n Q
manufactures in N.S.W. It calls up the meanest


passions of the old Cabbage-tree mob for their
destruction by the constant hint that Protection
is intended exclusively for the benefit of the
accursed region across the Murray. N.S.W. runs
about 90 per cent, of the very small musical-
instrument industry of the Commonwealth, and
that 90 per cent, is mostly in the hands of
Octavius C. Beale. Yet his request for a little
Protection—much less than is cheerfully given to
the farmer, and just about enough to counter-
balance his factory’s share of carrying the dead
weight of the “great primary industry” of cocky-
dom —would probably be lumped in with the rest
of the Telegraph’s denunciation, and described
as a device to bolster up “ a few industries around
Melbourne.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some Finances and Some Financiers.
Queensland, which is at present under a mostly
Labor Government, opened its Parliamentary
session a few days ago with an announcement that,
for the first time in a number of years, there was a
surplus of £14.000 instead of a shortage, and that
the State had got through a whole 12 months
without floating new loans. Also it was explained
that the State hoped to do some necessary rail-
way extensions in the present financial year out of
revenue, and that, at all events, Queensland is
going to borrow nothing at present. It is a pity,
with this courageous and patriotic policy on hand,
that the Morgan Government doesn’t go one step
further, and make the first item on its programme
a Bill to prohibit all further borrowing, except for
the renewal of existing loans. Of course the Bill
would be no certain guarantee that the old, frenzied
loan disease would not resume again if the Philp
gang got back to office, for any law can be repealed,
but, all the same, it would mean a great deal. It
would lay down a definite principle. It would be
a glorious advertisement for the Morgan Govern-
ment. It would be a glorious advertisement for
Queensland. And if the old gang did get back to
office, and did resume the old iniquities, it would
first have to secure the repeal of the Act. Instead
of sliding gently into a loan, without any un-
pleasant comment, it would have to declare itself
a borrowing Government, and face a direct and
bitter discussion on the advisability of resuming
the old loan swindle. At the other end of Aus-
tralia the Bent Ministry has met the Victorian
Parliament with the announcement that it has ac-
tually reduced, rather than increased, the public
debt during the last 12 months, and has also got
together out of revenue a sum of £508,000 to be
spent on land resumptions and public works. The
Bent Government, like that of Arthur Morgan,
reckons on facing the coming financial year
without borrowing. And if Bent wishes to put
the coping stone on a splendid financial record,
and to put himself high up on a pedestal, he
can also do it by passing an Act declaring loans,
except for renewal purposes, wholly illegal, and
thus, placing a very tall hurdle, and a very wide
water jump, in the way of any successor who
seeks to return to the old ways. The Federal
Government has likewise kept wholly clear of
loans as yet, but these are the only bright spots
at present in the financial record of Aus-
tralasia. N. S. W. scattered about £1,800,000
of loan money last financial year, and
is starting to scatter it this year at the
rate of even more per annum. Tasmania
keeps on borrowing in a small, shiftless way suited
to its small, shiftless instincts. S.A. has, so far,
done likewise. Westralia is borrowing in the
large, frantic, piratical fashion of one who is drunk
to-day, and hopes to be drunker to-morrow, and
intends to see snakes on the third day, and is
willing to let the fourth day take care of itself.
And in Maoriland, which, under Ballance, pro-
mised to be a pattern to its neighbors, Premier
Seddon seems to have gone raving mad in the
cash box during these latter years, and to be doing
his.best to turn what used to be solid prosperity
into a boom and a bubble and a burst. In the
financial year lately ended Maoriland, with only a
little over 900,000 population, contrived to add.
£2,339,304 to its liabilities, and it now owes £65 for
every inhabitant, of which awful sum £3l per inhabi-
tant is sunk in undertakings which yield no return
whatever, and £34 per inhabitant in works which
don’t yield enough return to cover the interest on
the £34. And Seddon, the financial drunkard,
proposes to borrow another £1,000,000 presently,
and more later on in the year, wherefore it be-
comes painfully apparent that something must
need s happen before long.
«
The N.S.W. Lands Scandals.
With the resumption of the N.S.W. Lands Com-
mission there has been unfolded another series of
cases all having a strong family resemblance to
those the records of which were summarised in
The Bulletin when the Commission adjourned
for its winter vacation. A pastoralist wished to
get land on improvement lease ; or, having it on
ithat tenure, wished for a reduction of the rent,
fie had heard that Mr. Willis was the
: ipan tq> see. He saw Mr. Willis —sometimes
through an intermediary—agreed to pay an
enormous fee, and everything was fixed up. Per-
haps the most injurious suggestion of the week
ag#i)Sjb the Lands Department was made by an
jfp-CQuptry land agent —the sort of agent who
worked on the lines of charging a few guineas for
actual business done. He swore that in cases when
he had made applications to the Lands Depart-
ment on behalf of clients, those clients promptly
received circulars from Mr. Willis touting for
their business; and he suggested that it was only
through the Lands Department that Mr. Willis
could have got knowledge of the fact that they
were in need of land agency services. The Com-
mission should probe this to the bottom. It may be
disclosed that the Lands Department actually
was agent in securing work for land agent Willis.
When the Commission adjourned, evidence had
been given that Mr. Willis’ earnings, in the
transactions investigated, were £23,484 ss. From
the evidence given to Friday last the Willis
earnings account stands :
Brought Forward (see Bulletin 30/7/’5) .. £23,484 5 0
From Capel Bros., Gorian .. .. 750 0 0
„ E, 0, Bloomfield, Bouralong .. 1,500 0 0
„ Mack & Austin, Narromine (through
Mr. Close .. .. .. .. 1,545 11 3
„ Thos. Cornish £BBO (through Mr.
ClosiA £l5OO, £668 Bs. .. .. 3,048 8 0
„ Allan Yeomans (Wyabray) .. .. 3,100 0 0
“ Richard Yeomans .. .. .. 1,500 0 0
£34,928 4 3
A notable sign, by the way, of the sincerity of
the N.S.W. Government’s desire to have a full
inquiry into the scandals wss the inclusion in the
jßill for extending the powers of the Commission
oi Inquiry of a clause gagging the press as regards
any comment on the proceedings of the Commis-
sion. At the instance of Mr. Holman this, fortu-
nately, was rejected, and the Government was
forced to submic to the insertion of a clause in
which reasonable newspaper comment was ex-
pressly authorised.
It has its Funny Features.
The Lands Scandals Inquiry in N.S.W. has its
humorous features. The other day John Haynes
trotted up to the Commission and told that
W. B. Melville had tried to bribe him with
£5OO to stop his attacks on Willis. He had
pretended to consider the proposal—which wasn’t
accompanied by the cash, but was backed up
only by vague wires from Willis— in order to
“lead on” Mr. Melville. Then he had scorn-
fully refused it. Mr. Melville on Monday gave
his version. One day he saw Mrs. Willis in the
street, and the spectacle stirred him to the
depths:—
When I saw Mrs. Willis with her five young daughters
by her side, in Pitt-street, Sydney, I could not help but
think of the simulated gaiety of the mother, distracted
by the troubles of her husband, and of the bubbling spirits
of the children, who were all unconscious of an
absent father’s troubles. The incident in Australian
domesticity powerfully impressed me. Surely, I
thought, no journalist with any human in-
stincts would wilfully or wantonly add to the misery
of the mother or injure the life prospects of the little
children. And I had read the Newsletter. But I
believed that Mr. Haynes, who has a wife and children
himself, had only to be appealed to to recognise the in-
humanity of his newspaper attacks on an absent man. It
was not Willis who was being journalistically tortured.
It was his gentle and kindly wife.
So he appealed to Mr. Haynes. In vain. Then,
Mr. Melville swore, he reinforced his arguments.
I said, “ I don’t think you will be at a loss, and I don’t
think you should. Willis is a wealthy man, and would,
I am sure, recoup you for any loss sustained by ceasing
to attack him until he returns, at any rate.” “ How much
would he stand, do you think ? ” asked Mr. Haynes. I
said, “I feel sure he would give £500.” “Well,
Melville,” said Mr. Haynes, “you get me £5OO,
and I’ll drop him out, but remember, I’ll go
hammer and tongs for Carruthers and Ashton.
But how’ll you get the money? From Mrs. Willis?”
“ No,” I said, “ I could not think of asking her ; I’ll wire
Willis.” “ Very well,” said Mr. Haynes; “it interferes
with my programme, but you have my word for it, if the
money is forthcoming I carry on the campaign without
aiming at Willis. I leave the matter in your hands. I
can trust you.” I then wired Mr. Willis, explaining the
position, and suggesting that he should send me £5OO.
But Mr. Willis only sent vague wires. And so
the matter ended, except that the Newsletter,
published by John Haynes’ son and edited by
him, was on Monday fined £5O, with costs, for
contempt of court in commenting on Mr. Willis
at a time when he was suing that newspaper for
libel.
Developing a New Claw.
The negotiations for the sale of the Midland Rail-
way to the Westralian Government uncovered for
a moment a new claw of the beast that some Aus-
tralians regard as a harmless, necessary creature,
without such a thing as a claw to its name. When
Treasurer Daglish was trying to drive a better
bargain than the eo. proposed, he asked that, if
the State paid with debentures or stock, the co.
should keep the bonds off the market for some
time, so as not to interfere with the State’s own
perpetual borrowings. The absentee co.’s agent
replied that the co. couldn’t think of agreeing to
any such thing; but, he added, if the State didn’t
come promptly to terms, the Midland Railway
people in England would probably be so angry
that they would slaughter any future loan pro-
posal. And the National Bank wrote to its
agent:—
We are prepared to do all that we can in order to
help the Government, but the prior purchase of the
Midland Railway, it is considered, would greatly facilitate
the proposed Government loan with the London money
market. We regard it as useless to offer the State loan
until after the purchase of the railway has been completed,
and the Midland Company’s opposition thereby removed.
Otherwise, their opposition in London will be dangerous
to its success, owing to the way they view the treatment
they received from the former Government.
Almost anything that makes it difficult for an
Australian Government to go deeper into pawn is
welcome; but this is a case in which the Govern-
ment was warned that if it didn’t buy an
absentee co.’s property for much more than it
thought that property was worth, the absentee
would make things warm for the State. The time
may come when Australia will have to borrow
(when aggressive war threatens, for instance) ;
and it looks as though the foreign philanthropist
who has put his money into Australia will not be
above telling Australia then that, if it doesn’t buy
him out at a ridiculous price, he will block the
necessary loan. The obvious moral is : Get rid of
the foreign capitalist before he has a chance to use
the claw that he has been unwise enough to show.
Wanted, Mr. Willis.
W. N. Willis has been raised to the dignity of a
political issue in New South Wales. In fact, he
is just now the only issue of any importance. It
may not be true that the N.S.W. Government is,
metaphorically, in the same boat with W. N.
Willis. But a general impression to that effect
exists, and has far more reason for existing than
some of the quaint stories which many-tongued
Rumor proclaims. For, throughout, the N.S.W,
Government, by accident or design, has shown a
tenderness for the feelings of W. N. Willis, a
faculty of just avoiding by a hair’s breadth actions
which might be inconvenient to W. N. Willis,
and a reluctance to be dragged into any attitude
which might appear to be unfriendly to W. N.
Willis, so there is much excuse for the public
to look upon W. N. Willis as the long-lost
brother of the Cabinet, and likewise the missing
will by which it proves its legitimacy and its
lawful right to £5,000,000 and a baronial castle.
In the first instance, when the Lands scandals
showed as a huge volume of smoke, suggesting
fire somewhere, the N.S.W. Government had an
extreme dulness of perception. It could see no
smoke. It had no suspicion of any tire. It failed
to discover any reason why there should be any
investigation. Only when the alternative to in-
quiry seemed to be dismissal was a Royal Com-
mission appointed, with scant and grudged
powers. And it is at least an unfortunate coinci-
dence that in the very deed of appointment there
is alleged to be a technical error, which allegation
has much hampered the prosecution of one defiant
witness, and has provided the foundation for a great
deal of impudent bluff on the part of persons inter-
ested in hushing up the scandals. Only when,
in spite of its restricted scope and powers, the
Royal Commission began to bring to light such
facts as practically convinced a public, already
deeply suspicious, was its scope extended. Only
when W. N. Willis, from whom alone can the
full truth as to many matters be elicited, had
left Australia, were the powers of the Com-
mission enlarged to give it the right to stop a
departing witness. Then, as a reason why there
should be no effort made to stretch out an arm to
reach W. N. Willis in foreign parts, the Govern-
ment set up the plea that Justice Owen, the
Royal Commissioner, had given witness Willis
full leave of absence. This Justice Owen denied
as soon as he could, and then the Government
came from behind its last hedge, and its present
attitude is that, anyhow, it is not bringing
Willis back. In political circles it is possible to
find admirable reasons for all this friendship for
Mb. Willis— the desire to be sympathetic to a
gentleman who just now is falling in for a good
deal of abuse, the inflexible determination to up-
hold, to the utmost, Constitutional i>ropriety, the
liberty of the subject, Magna Charta, and the
like. But the public, the unfeeling public, sees in
it nothing but a common fear and a common
interest. If Parliament truly reflected the opinions
of the people outside, the Government would be
left without a supporter in its present policy of
frudgingly permitting a partial inquiry into the
lands scandals, and an Administration would be in
office pledged to the one task of carrying the
Lands Inquiry through to its bitter end, irrespec-
tive of what personages are involved. The
need of the moment is a Government which
will bring back W. N. Willis and undertake fear-
lessly all the consequent steps. Such an Adminis-
tration would find itself able to sink any other
political issues for a while ; almost any men might
co-operate in the work if they had the bond of a
common honesty.
♦
Aged Fish..
N.S.W. Agent-General Coghlan’s official experi-
ence is useful in London in checkmating the
Australian Stinking Fish newspaper corres-
pondent. Liverpool (Eng.) Post recently printed
a letter from Sydney, vilifying Australia, and
signed “ Charles W. Whitford.” This person,
it was claimed, had held “responsible positions in
N.S.W. Treasury, ColonialSecretary’sandlmperial
Pay Departments, and also served in the Imperial
Army,” the suggestion being, of course, that the
writer was an authoritative Somebody who knew
his subject. Coghlan said that, as one of
three Commissioners who reorganised N.S.W.
Public Service in 1897-98, he ought to know some-
thing about that body, but he couldn’t recollect
“Charles W. Whitford.” Further, that the
official lists which record the'name of every person
employed in the P. S. during the last 20 years didn’t
mention “Charles W. Whitford.” This rather
crumpled up “ Charles W. Whitford’s ” reputa-
tion as an authoritative Somebody, but he started
to explain in Sydney Morning Herald
Now, as a matter of fact, whilst admitting that it was
possible my name may not have appeared owing to the
position having been made under Ministerial authority, in
lieu of that of the Public Service Board, which is the ordi-
nary channel for appointments to the service, it does not
one iota infer the fact that I was not engaged in the
Government service of the State. Moreover, the creden-
tials which I have in my possession from the various
Under-Secretaries conclusively prove that my statement
was entirely correct in every essential point.
Now the N.S.W. Public Service Board was only
created while Reid was in office. Before that
time everybody was appointed “under Ministerial
authority” in one way or another, and the whole
Blue Book was made up of the names of persons
who, like “ Charles W. Whitford,” didn't get
their biliets through the Public Service Board,
because there was none. The N.S.W. Public-
Service List even now consists very largely of the
names of men who were appointed j ust as “ Charles
W. Whitford” says he was. Therefore, if his name
never appeared, the inference is that he never was
in the N.S. W. Public Service, and that his state-
ments to that effect are inventions, devised to
make his slanders upon Australia look more
credible. The Stinking Fish party should call a
committee meeting at the Stinking Fish office
and clear this matter up.
♦
A while ago George Turner weakly allowed the
Americans who flood Australia with harvesters—
the product of a stolen Australian invention —to
deduct from the invoice price on which duty is
paid an indefinite sum for alleged railway freight
to the port of shipment. They worked this busi-
ness and other businesses so enthusiastically that
the alleged 124 per cent, duty became only 4 per
cent, on the price at which the machine was sold
here. When it was found that this was fast
ruining the Australian industry of making har-
vesters, the Freetrade party was jubilant. When
it was found that there was a fair chance of the
Australian harvester works having to close up
and turn out its workmen —hitherto a rather
well-paid class of workmen —to starve, the Aus-
tralian Freetrade party shook hands with itself.
When it became known that the Australian
harvester industry was, under these condi-
tions, hardly returning any profit to the manu-
facturers, Holman, M.L.A., of N.S.W., wrote
to The Bulletin with a sneer at these manufac-
turers as “interesting capitalists.” When the
Americans who pirated an Australian invention,
and got to windward of the Australian revenue,
flooded the country with lying circulars, in which
they claimed their steal as an American invention,
and falsely stated that they were the only people
who could supply harvesters because the Aus-
tralian industry had been killed dead, thePree-
trade party said not a word in condemnation.
Then, the other day, Minister Lyne decided that
to let a harvester, which was sold retail for £B5,
pay duty on from £25 to £3B was too glaring, and
resolved that duty should in future be charged,
not on the £B5 at which the machine is sold, but
only on a wholesale value of £65. And a Sydney
Freetrade paper headed this “A Monstrous
Injustice,” and Freetrader Conroy, in his rage at
this attempt to give something like a fair chance
to an Australian industry, said he was “stag-
gered,” and Freetrader Johnston hinted that
Lyne couldn’t have moved to stop this huge im-
porting fraud unless there was some corrupt
motive behind the act; and Freetrader Lonsdale
talked about “robbery.” Also the S.M. Herald
talked about “reputable” American firms—the
reputable firm in this case being a branch of the
infamous Standard Gil Trust—being persecuted
in the interests of a “local ring.” How these
Freetraders loathe Australian manufactures !
-♦
Melbourne “ Black Australia ” crowd was
taken with a great spasm, the other day,
by the discovery that a shipment of Aus-
tralian butter had been returned from Colombo,
where it had been rejected by “patriotic
Indian merchants, who had determined to
boycott Australian goods in retaliation for the
Immigration Restriction Act.” There was the
usual wild blither about Labor legislation “ruin-
ing the country,” and the Six Hatters lie and the
Petriana myth were solemnly trotted out once
more. First report said that 100 cases of butter
had been returned ; in a day or so the quantity
had increased to 100 tons. Then suddenly the
bottom tumbled out of the lie with this simple ex-
planation from the shippers of the butter, Thomp-
son, Thomas and Co., of Melbourne
Owing to the great difficulty of obtaining cool storage
space on mail steamers and other boats to the East in the
fruit season, we sent forward a consignment of tinned
butter to Colombo as ordinary cargo. The shipping
companies had told us previously that we could not have
any space in the cool chambers, and therefore tinned was
the only butter we could forward. A fortnight later,
however, the Orient Co. informed us that cool chamber
space was available, and we sent on a lot of bulk butter ;
and when that is available no one will, of course, buy the
tinned, so we had it returned. It is incorrect to say that
the butter was returned as an act of retaliation for any
social legislation adopted by the Commonwealth.
And now, how do the Tory liars and slanderers
who circulated the yarn about the boycott of Aus-
tralian goods feel like retracting ? If they are
gentlemen, and not mere specimens of wealthy
blackguardism, they will retract, but then there
are great doubts as to whether there is a gentleman
among the Australian Tory push.
The superior Insurance and Banking Record,
mentioning the recentinter-State Labor Congress,
observes that one of the planks is a Common-
wealth bank of deposit and issue, and remarks
that—■
The notion of a Commonwealth Bank of Deposit under
Socialistic auspices is too absurd, for no well-informed
or sensible person would deposit money in an institution
where it would be liable to confiscation or detention.
The Record apparently doesn’t remember what
the “liability to confiscation or detention” is in
connection with private banks. There are, how-
ever, people who had money in concerns for which
the Record barracked hard, who do remember it
quite well. Some of them got back 2s. 6d. in the
£ ; and others only got their money back because
the villainous State came to the rescue. When
the crowd surged around the Barrack-street
bank in Sydney and wanted its deposits back on
the spot, it wasn’t the Bank of N.S. Wales, or the
Bank of Australasia, or any other private concern
that rushed up with a reliable guarantee ; it was
just the State, in the person of Premier George
Dibbs ; and when the crowd melted away, it was
simply because, though it wasn’t prepared to trust
a private concern with its deposits, it was quite
prepared to trust the State. And it has gone on
trusting the State with its deposits ever since.
Sydney Institute of Bankers was lectured the
other evening by R. L. Nash, the. Telegraph’s
financial editor, who showed how little a financial
editor may know outside his arithmetic book.
Nash’s subject was: “Is Socialism possible?”
and, of course, he said it wasn’t, because, as
Coghlan had put the average income of the adult
Australian at £6l a year, under Socialism the man
who didn’t want to be limited to £6l a year would
clear out. Having thus gibbetted Socialism as a
vile thing which wouldn’t let anybody have more
than £6l a year, whether he earned it or not,
Nash proceeded to gibbet it as a vile thing which
aimed at “securing the full results of their indus-
try to all producers.... The producer would get the
full result of his industry; therefore capital would
get nothing.” In other words, Socialism won’t
let a man get more than £6l a year, and it also
insists upon the same man getting £61,000 a year
if he earns it. But still nobody in the Institute
rose to tell Nash that he didn't know what he was
talking about, and was knocking out his own
arguments as he went along.
Posterity’s Load.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
In round figures, the Australian States owe Ooiien
£200,000,000. When one loan falls due, the average
Australian Government dodges the difficulty by obtaining
another.
Down the dusty, dismal future tramps a melan-
choly person
Bending double, Hindu fashion, underneath an
awful load ;
’Tis the ’Stralian of the morrow, and he heaps his
earnest curse on
Those who made no manly effort to pay off the
debts they owed !
The Australian of the future pauses often by the
wayside,
And he objurgates his parents in a manner sadly
free;
For to him the world presenteth but a cheerless,
hopeless grey side —
And he has to hump the burden of old debts eter-
nally !
Do you wonder that he curses with that load upon
his shoulders ?
It is fastened there for ever, and he cannot shake
it free;
He’s a broken-hearted helot with a soul that rots
and moulders—
And I reckon we are rotters thus to treat Posterity!
To an unknown race we’re leaving this inherit-
ance infernal—
Has the present breed a conscience on the premises
at all ?
For it loads its own poor offspring with an lOU
eternal,
’Stead of fighting its own battles with its back set
to the wall !
We are spendthrifts, caring nothing for the misery
that follows—
We are shirkers, we are shufflers —we are faithless
to our sons.
We are far more crude and selfish than the lowest
brute that wallows,
For we blast our children’s prospects with a herit-
age of duns !
Is it fair to shackle people who as yet have no
existence ?
Is it right to doom our children to a whim-horse
round of toil ?
Hear the answer ringing back now, with a full and
just insistence—
“ They who bind an unborn people are unfit to
cumber soil! ”
Here’s a gospel for Australia—here’s a new creed
for the nation—
Let us drudge and let us labor, let us moil and let
us work,
Lest they wake us in the graveyard with their
bitter execration;
Let us leave our children debtless, let Australians
cease to Shirk !
Let the earth quake with the thunder of our
arsenals and forges;
Let the engines clank and clatter in the factory
and mill;
Let us hew the hills asunder, let us light the
mountain gorges-
With our furnaces and steel works —let us toil
with granite will !
Here’s a gospel for our country, here’s a gospel for
the shirkers —
It will free us from the bondage of the Jews across
the sea.
If we struggle, if we labor, if the nation seethes
with workers,
We may leave a solvent country to our heir Pos-
terity !
vic.
GRANT HERVEY.


IS YOUR FARM SECURE?
If you die, who will have the Farm ?
d _
Your Family or the Mortgagee?
An Equitable Endowment will keep the Farm in Your Family.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building, Sydney
(or Nearest Branch op the Society).
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
Endowment
I was born , •
Name
Address
t
D
0
on account' of
their purity*
& flavour.
Gallaher Ig Belfast- belong f° noTrustor Combine
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Mail.”
Criterion “ The Earl and the Girl.”
Palace The Great Thurston.
Queen’s Hall New Folly Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Walls of Jericho.”
f “Marie Antoinette” (Thursday)
Her Majesty’s “ The French Maid ” (Friday)
b“ The Gondoliers ” (Saturday).
Theatre Royal “Woman and Wine.”
Oper a House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
(Hugo Heermann (Saturday
afternoon)
Watkin Mills Quartet (Saturday
evening).
—
Audiences that assemble at Sydney Palace
to wonder and guess at the Great Thurston’s
magic are large and of all sorts and varieties.
Perhaps the male, old and young, is fonder of
magic, mirth, and mystery than the female, for
the short-haired, tubular-garmented person comes
to Thurston’s wizardisms in squadrons. The
Great T. trots out fresh unravelsome mys-
teries every few nights, and The Bulle-
tin isn’t quite sure that he ought not to be
interdicted or something. It read lately of a
society formed to suppress the telephone “because
it is an instrument quite opposed to Holy Writ.”
Mr. Thurston seems also to be gifted with a levity
and a disregard of the alleged laws of Nature
which isn’t quite on all fours with Holy Writ.
* * ifc
Andrew Mack will tread “The Way to
Kenmare”for the last time at Her Majesty’s on
Friday night, after which the green flame of ould
Ireland will burst out with renewed energy in
“ Arrah-na-Pogue.” Shaun the Post is an old
enough friend of Sydney’s to come in without
knocking, and Mack ought to be one of the best
Shauns ever seen.
# * * *
The images that chase one another across
the big canvas at the Sydney Lyceum have been
changed since last week, and now, at that re-
generated house, which hasn’t a pub. alongside it
any more, you can see the “ Sign of the Cross ” in
seven tableaus.
* * *
At Sydney Criterion John F. Sheridan
is turning away money with “ The Earl and the
Girl.” “ He is such a good-tempered loser,” says
the profession, “ that all are glad when he proves
a winner.” Owing to a door in the firmament
being left open, Winfield Blake caught a violent
cold and had to omit some of his principal songs
last week. But he is again voiceful and forceful.
Miss Maud Amber, in marvellously fitting gowns,
continues to elope in a tub, and Miss Waldon
Taylor, Heba Barlow, Little Gulliver, and others
—so many others, and the printed list of their
names is a study in elegant nomenclature —are all
doing well.
* * m *
“ The Midnight Mail ” is doing such good
business at Sydney Royal that there is no
announcement as yet of a change of bill. There
is evidently in Sydney a large demand for melo-
drama, and now that the Lyceum has gone out of
the blood-curdle business and deals in milk and
water only, the Royal scores.
* * * *
The Histrionic Society, of which Mr.
Harry Leston is director, will explode at the
Oddfellows Temple, Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
next Tuesday. The entertainment will include
“Sunset,” in one act by Jerome K. Jerome, the
second act of “Not Such a Fool as he Looks,”
and the comedietta, “Who’s to Win Him.”
Some of these bygone writers had a fearful and
wonderful taste in names.
* * # X
The natural perversity of man is seen in
the fact that of the things you don’t care tuppence
for the Sydney Tivoli shows you a lot, and, if you
happen to shuffle your foot with the chilblains on,
it is taken for the expression of General Desire
for more, and they give it to you ; while Milo—
the beautiful Milo—they put upon a cold pedestal
far back on the stage, in the shadows of the trees
that the carpenter makes, and when you have just
begun to think pleasant things they ring the cur-
tain down. Milo is a thing of beauty and a joy
for 25 seconds or so. The rest of the programme
is just about what it was a week ago, when it was
a shade better than fair.
# * * *
Bland Holt was probably expecting a burst
of damp, wintry weather when he revived “Woman
and Wine” at Melbourne Royal. It is the best
sort of melodrama—warm and spicy—for people
who have come in out of the wet and are feeling
wicked. The hero is drunk and disorderly as a
rule. Other characters gather round him in vari-
ous scenes of gaudy dissipation, advising him to
murder Miss Rigadout, or imploring him not to
do it. A casual lady vocalist at a disrespectable
cafe assists the story by selling Baker a formidable-
looking knife, but he gets too drunk to use it, and,
finally, the criminal job is taken off his hands
by a lurid demi-mondaine, because her fancy-
man has been carrying-on with the other spinster.
They fight to a finish with knives which have been
sharpened on a grindstone by Caliban, of the
Flower Market, an amusing person who wears his
legs wide apart and promotes capital offences for
the purpose of bringing the wrong man to the
guillotine if possible. There is more sin and fes-
tivity in “Woman and Wine” than in two ordi-
nary dramas. And the audience’s fondness for
Caliban, the knife-sbarpener, suggests that the
commonplace stage villains are only despised for
their lack of humor. Here is a droll monstrosity
who might even venture to blacken the corpse’s
face and put a pipe in her mouth. His comic legs
entitle him to do as he pleases.
tK’
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the diminished
star of Miss Nance O’Neil will cease to twinkle
this (Thursday) night. ‘‘ Trilby ” broke the heart
of her amateurish Little Billee until last week end,
and on Monday the belated production of “ Marie
Antoinette ” was to come to light. On the word
of the advertisement it was a Magnificent Repre-
sentation, although the appearance of the co. in
previous “costume” plays had not promised any-
thing specially splendid. To-morrow (Friday)
“The French Maid” will be staged at the
Williamsonianhouse for this occasion only by “The
Players,” who did their best with it at the Bijou
a fortnight ago. And on Saturday the Gilbert
and Sullivan Repertoire co. is to start a three
weeks season in a welcome revival of “ The Gon-
doliers.” Some of the repertoirers are waiting to
be introduced to Melbourne.
** * *
One line in “The Walls of Jericho”
always raises a few isolated smiles, usually on
sunburnt faces. That is when the voluble
moralist of Mayfair tells his wife that human
nature is 15 degrees overproof in Queensland, or
words to that effect. This country had never
felt the full strength of its northern
virtue until the Man from Queensland started
to “throw it off” at his Lady Alethea.
Nobody is guilty of gambling, cynicism, or
Divorce Court conduct in the land where the
sugar-cane grows. The gilded classes are simple-
minded creatures, who cultivate their higher in-
tellects, and do their duty by the birthrate —
according to the advt. they get from “Jericho.”
If the play has been running for more than
500 nights in London a considerable emigration of
penitent seceders from the smart set may be
expected to trickle into Brisbane. Flemming lias
a fine scorn for evil-doers ; also, the subjugation
of Miss Beatrice Day (as Lady Alethea) is more
feelingly expressed than on the first night; and
already a popular Melbourne parson is urging his
flock to book seats for the Princess’s show.
* * -* *
At Melbourne Opera House the bill just
at present is much the same as before, with the
exception of Fuller Golden, who has departed
for elsewhere. The musical turn of Diamond and
Beatrice gathers admiration as far aS the lady is
concerned, but the artificial rose trimmings on
Diamond’s little harp are universally abhorred.
Kara, the juggler, is due at the Rickards estab-
lishment next Saturday, and there are others
coming to the rescue.
#• * * *
This week’s fixtures for Melb. Town Hall
should attract audiences large enough to keep
themselves warm outside, apart from their inner
musical enthusiasm. On Saturday afternoon
Hugo Heermann makes his final appearance,
backed up by a capital orchestra, under the Laver
b&ton. In the evening Watkin Mills and his
Quartet Party give the first concert of a farewell
series, the further dates whereof will be duly an-
nounced.
* m sfc *-
Adelaide Royal has made a quick change
from the turgid splendors of “ The Lady of
Lyons” to the cheerful incoherence of “Bill
Adams,” modestly advertised as “ totallyeclipsing
in beauty and brilliance anything hitherto
attempted on the Australian stage.” The Kniglit-
Jeffries Co. gave nothing new in its season, so
that Adelaide will not see “The Darling of the
Gods.” (The nearest thing to it was last year,
when the cloud-apotheosis was tacked on to “ The
Sign of the Cross ” so that Marcus Stupendous
and Mercia were re-united in a Japanese para-
dise !) Mrs. G. B. Lewis made a welcome reap-
pearance to support Carey in the low-comedy
passages of “ Pygmalion and Galatea,” and the
“ Silver King ” house was said to be an absolute
record for the Royal. The Frank Clark Co. con-
tinues to do big business at low prices in the
Tivoli, and the Bach Society, Lyric Club, and
others are trying hard, by a series of high-class
concerts in the Town Hall, to restore the old
rumor that Adelaide is a musical city. That
rumor has been a good deal mislaid in recent
times.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Vic.): —
Written Added
off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
June, 1899.. £3022 5|p.c.=£2337 £685 £57,464
Dee., 1899.. 2990 „ „ 2337 653 58,117
June, 1900.. 3153 5| ~ ~ 2337 816 58,933
Dec., 1900.. 3334 6 „ „ 2550 784 59,717
June, 1901.. 3542 6 “ 2550 £225 767 60,484
Dec., 1901.. 3629 6 „ „ 2550 300 779 61,263
June, 1902.. 3689 6 ~ „ 2550 1139 62,402
Dec., 1902.. 3627 6 „., 2550 500 577 62,979
June, 1903.. 3474 6 „ „ 2550 250 674 63,653
Dec., 1903.. 4004' 6 „ „ 2550 250 12t)4 64,857
June,1904.. 3977 7 „ „ 2975 1002 65,859
Dec., 1904.. 3974 7 „ „ 2975 999 66,858
June, 1905.. 4028 7 „,, 2975 1053 67,911
The Ballarat is one of the few banks which show, on the
12 months, increased advances and almost stationary
deposits. Former total £299,126 against £289,692; deposits
and other liabilities to the public are £228,101 against
£223,459. The result is a small shrinkage of liquid assets,
which still, however, represent a very solid 35£ per cent,
of all liabilities to the public. As might therefore reason-
ably be expected, earnings per cent, on the basis of share-
holders funds (£85,000 capital and £66,858 reserves) remain
steady as follows :
June,’ol .. £4 17 11 Dec., ’O3 .. £5 7 9
Dec., ’Ol .. 419 9 June,’o4 .. 5 6 2
June,’o2 .. 5 011 Dec., ’O4 .. 5 5 4
Dec., ’O2 .. 418 5 June, ’O5 .. 5 6 1
June, ’O3 .. 413 11
The Ballarat Bank’s earnings are really very moderate,
but it has ho branches, and its expenses are consequently
very small, and that makes all the difference in the net
figures. Compare it with a bank of about the same size,
but whose business is scattered over 14 offices :
Ballarat. Kth. Q’land'
, . . p-joa 987 £482,904
Total Assets .. •• •• 90-73 11,803
Gross Earnmgs .. .. •• 4/17/9
Gross Earnings p.c. of Assets.. 4/14/0 4/ /
Working Expenses .. .. 51
Expenses p.c. of Earnings .. 10
The net result is a dividend of 7 per cent, in one case and
21 per cent, in the other. There are some advantages no
doubt, in having your eggs in many baskets ut the
Ballarat Bank shareholders are mighty 1
having theirs in one, where they need onlj hue one pa
of eyes to watch them instead of 14 pairs.
* * * *
The Victoria Insurance Co. (Melbourne)
Added to Re-
June. Profits. Dividends Reserves. serves
1895 .. £20,741 40£ p.c. = £20,221 £520 £ 51,054
1896 .. 17.05 S 36 „ „ 17,9/4 - »0,138
1897 .. 18,010 36 „ „ 17,9/4 36 80,1/1
Loss. I Depreciation of As-)
1898 . 23,336 V sets written oft, >
I £20,000 J
p I'nfits
1899 14597' 9 „ „ 4,494 10,103 46,941
1900 19 046 2'2i ~ ~ 11,234 7,812 54,753
1901 " 17 374 27 13,481 3,893 58,046
1902 " 23 923 27 ” 13,481 10,442 69,05 S
1903 .. 28,’195 36 „ „ 17,975 10,220 ,9,308
1904 .. 28,068 36 „ „ 17,975 10,093 89,401
1905 .. 27,571 36 ~ ~ 17,9/5 9,596 98,99/
The co. has had another extremely profitable year,
netting a return of £19155. 3d. p.c. on capital (£50,181) and
reserves. The business has continued large, and the loss
rate low —considering the expense rate, in fact, very low.
Following figures supply some details: -
Net Inte-
Premiums. rest, &c. Losses. Expenses.
1900 £82,217 £2459 £46,406 £19,224
1901 " 82 478 3424 48,253 20,174
1902 .. 87,080 3685 48,727 18,115
1903 82,712 4046 39,114 19,449
1904 ! 83,216 4809 39,500 20,456
1905 !. 82,276 4548 36,710 22,544
The loss rate was 44'6 per cent, of net premiums ; the ex-
pense rate 25’9 per cent, of total net premiums and other
earnings, or 27'4 per cent, of premiums alone, leaving 28
per cent, as profit—a figure which in Australia last
vear was only equalled by the Mercantile Mutual and
Australian Mutual. But the interest and rents show only
£2 13s. lid. on average assets ; and there isn’t another
Australasian fire office whose figures work out quite as
poorly as that. The co. has rather more than one-
fourth of its assets in real estate ; and apparently
it is this from which a very small return is coming. For
the rest, except £12,400 on mortgage, it holds hardly any ;
thing but deposits and public stocks ; so that there isn’t
any general writing-down called for. It is possible that
the co. doesn’t credit its investment in real estate with
rent when it uses that estate to do its own work in ; but
in that not improbable case it is its own funeral if it
makes such a poor showing in this matter of earnings
when compared with other concerns. As before re-
marked, co. is making almost the largest amount of
profits, in proportion to premium income, among Aus-
tralian fire offices; but it is putting a comparatively
small portion bv against the day when a big conflagration
will scorch it—it has been singed once already. The
South British last year reserved 76 per cent, of its profits,
the Colonial Mutual 78 per cent., the Australian Mutual
64 per cent., and the North Queensland 61 per cent. ; but
the Victoria pays 36 per cent. div. and tries to crowd
through on a lay-by of 35 per cent, of the profits. And
some day, when shareholders are waited on suddenly for
their £129,571 of uncalled capital, they will probably feel
sorry, and start to kick somebody.
* * * *
The Victoria Life and General Insurance
Co. (Melbourne): —
Funds
(apart
Ex- from
Income. Claims, penses. Dividends &c. Capital).
June, £ £ £ £ £
1895.. 19,813 12,251 1986 15 p.c. = 6,000 318,851
1896.. 16,995 11,868 1922 7£ „ „ 3,000 319,056
1897 17,244 7,443 2024 12£ ~ ~ 5,000 321,833
1898.. 15,899 12,132 2219 12} „ „ 5,000 318,351
1899.. 15,298 11,244 1615 15 „ ~ 6,000 314,820
1900.. 14,062 8,735 1594 25 ~,,10,000 308,553
1901.. 14,050 11,506 1484 25 „ ~10,000 299,613
1902.. 13,068 9,179 1419 25 „ ~10,000 292,083
1903.. 12,434 10,146 1535 25 ~,,10,000) 2 62 836
Written off Securities 20,000 / ’
1904.. 11,976 9,776 1426 25 ~ ~10,000) 24 q «i 0
Written off Securities 10,000 f “ ’
1905.-11,587 14,294 1330 25 ~,,10,000 229,573
This co. is issuing po new' life policies, but is sitting down
peacefully awaiting the end of its last life-policy
and praying that he may long be spared to pay in
premiums, and meantime it is comforting itself with a
25 p.c. dividend. What the policy obligations are isn)t
mentioned'; but presumably the life assurance fund is
estimated to cover them ; and, assuming that it is so
(though there is no proof of it), £82,573 is left over for
shareholders, in addition to capital (£40,000). Judging
by the renewal premiums (£3226 last year) the assur-
ance fund should be more than ample to meet claims.
But the assets return only £2 17s. 9d. p.c. ; so it looks as
though some of the shareholders’ surplus will disappear
in writings-dowm. The expenses are, in the circum-
stances, naturally small, amounting to just under £lolos.
per cent, of total income. The future of the co. must be
to some extent a gamble, because, as the policies dw'indle,
they won’t be numerous enough for the law of averages to
apply strictly to them.
* * » *
The Victoria General Insurance and Guar-
antee 00. (Melbourne)
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1895 £5629 20 per cent. =£4ooo £1629 £17,828
1896 .. 4388 25 „ ~ 5000 17,816
1897 .. 8689 20 ~ „ 4000 17,505
Loss.
1898 .. 5011 10 „ „ 2000 10,494
Profits.
1599 .. 4511 15 „ „ 3000 1511 12,005
1900 .. 3233 20 „ ~ 4000 11,238
1901 .. 4741 20 „ ~ 4000 741 11,979
1902 .. 4301 20 ~ „ 4000 301 12,280
1903 .. 3957 20 ~ ~ 4000 12,237
1904 .. 3736 20 ~ ~ 4000 11,973
1905 .. 3334 15 „ „ 3000 334 12,307
Spme further comparisons :
1900. 1904. 1905.
Premium Income .. ..£11,324 £9918 £9443
Losses 6,387 4536 4429
Expenses .. .. .. 2,864 2872 2973
Losses p.c. of Premiums .. 56.4 45‘7 46‘9
Expenses p.c. of Premiums 25"4 28'9 31'5
Interest Earnings .. .. 2/19/8 3/2/1 3,6/0
The expenses include a small amount of “ returned
premiums,” these being for some reason (or for none,
wdiich looks more likely) bunched with commissions.
Business isn’t moving the right w'ay ; neither are. ex-
penses. But interest earnings are improving in a very
rapid fashion. For a change a trifle is put to reserves;
but the dividend, though reduced, is still extravagant in
the extreme. Except real estate, £9684 (book value), the
assets are deposits, bank balances, and public stocks.
* ♦ » *
The Equity Trustees, Executors, and Agency
Co. (Melbourne): —
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
June, 1899.. £1175 per cent. =£937 £238 £4,480
Dec., 1899.. 997 U ~ ~ 937 60 4,540
June, 1900.. 832 7£ „ „ 937 4,435
Dec., 1900.. 1090 7* ~ „ 937 153 4,588
June, 1901.. 2087 7J „ ~ 937 1150 5,738
Dec., 1901.. 1488 7* ~ „ 937 551 6,289
June, 1902.. 2977 8 „ ~ 1000 1977 8,266
Dec., 1902.. 1517 8 ~ ~1000 517 8,783
June, 1903.. 1349 8 ~ ~1000 349 9,132
Dec., 1903.. 1744 8 ~ ~1000 744 9,876
June, 1904.. 3036 12 ~ ~1500 1536 11,412
Dec., 1904.. 2435 8 ~ „ 1000 1435 12,847
June, 1905.. 3775 12 „ ~1500 2275 15,122
The half-year’s profits as shown are after paying a bonus
of £248 to staff. Even then shareholders’ funds (£25,000
capital and reserves) earned £2O 14s. Bd. p.c., which will
be very nearly' the y'ear’s record among Australasian
trustee co.’s. But how does this co. do it ? Trustee co.’s
have two main sources of revenue—a commission on the
corpus of the trust estate and an annual commission.
The latter is scarcely more than enough to pay current
expenses—not enough in some cases. If a trustee co.
credits itself with the whole corpus commission when the
estate comes into the office, it may thus be left thereafter
with much work to do and little or no profit to show for
it. In that case there will be the temptation to prejudice
clients’ interests by employing cheap men —and it doesn’t
pay to employ cheap men to handle other people’s money.
The corpus commission ought to be spread over prac-
tically the whole period during which an estate is in
hand ; and when profits jump about in an erratic fashion,
it suggests that this safe plan is not being adopted.
There is no proof either way, but it looks as though it
was not being adopted in this case ; and trustee co.’s are
far too valuable to be prejudiced by any unwholesome
system of accountancy, even though it be well within the
law. It might be a good thing if the corpus commission
were abolished altogether, and the running commission
raised a trifle to make up for it.
• « • *
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane): —
Dividends and Carried to Re-
June. Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1895 .. £714 2J per cent. = £662 £52 £278
1896 .. 920 3 „ „ 795 125 403
1897 .. 1077 3£ „ „ 927 150 553
1898 .. 1195 4 „ ~ 1060 135 688
1899 .. 2248 7 „ „ 1856 392 1080
1900 .. 3359 8 „ „ 2121 1238 2318
1901 .. 2367 8 ~ ~ 2121 246 2564
1902 .. 3928 8 ~ ~ 2121 1807 4371
1903 .. 2546 8 „ „ 2121 425 4796
1904 .. 1576 6 „ „ 1590 4782
1905 .. 2122 6 „ ~ 1590 532 5314
The tide seems to have turned. Red ruin was going to
fall on Queensland if it went back on the crowd for whom
Philp was the last standard-bearer ; and when at last it
concluded that it might as well rush to ruin as drift
there, things began to change. Instead of ruin, “ the
records of the co. show that satisfactory progress has
been made. Both in the number of estates and their
aggregate value, the volume of new business very largely
exceeds the figures for past years. In sales of real estate
a satisfactory increase has also been recorded, particularly
in respect of country lands suitable for agricultural and
dairy purposes.” These remarks, by the way, are signed
by the same Mr. F. T. Brentnall who, a few months ago,
travelled half over Australia to draw pictures of the
horrible things that would happen if the Labor people got
a look in—this same Mr. Brentnall whose co. has begun to
flourish under the rule of a half-Labor Government main-
tained by' a Labor vote. As for the co. itself, this shows
what it has been doing
1902. 1903. 1904. 1905,
Revenue .. .. £9247 £7731 £5995 £6658
Salaries and Fees .. 3757 3776 3417 3426
Other Expenses ... 1320 14C9 1001 1109
Profit on Funds p.c. £l4 2 5 £8 II 10 £5 4 10 £7 13
There are but few Queensland co.’s doing better than
that; and, notwithstanding the high return, the securi-
ties appear to be a sound lot, mostly Government stock.
With a Labor Government in office, Mr. Brentnall’s co.
feels quite safe in holding Government stock.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
New Works
Charged to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Revenue, serves.
June, 1900..£47,129 8 p.c. =£34,288 • £632,524
Dec., 1900.. 58,727 8„ ~ 34,288 £1,442 555,521
June, 1901.. 53,955 9,, ~ 38,574 9,758 561,144
Dec., 1901.. 56,872 9,, „ 38,574 10,725 568,717
June, 1902.. 50,212 9 „ „ 38,574 11,643 568,712
Dec., 1902.. 50,454 9„ „ 38,574 5,172 575,420
£5665 written off Meter Renewal Reserve 569,755
June, 1903.. 40,776 9„ „ 38,574 7,573 570,384
£2OOO written off Gas Stoves Account 1 W 9 oja
Dec., 1903.. 52,017 9„ „ 38,574 9,481/
June, 1904.. 48,971 9,, „ 38,574 6,901 575,842
£1434 written off Meters & Stoves Accounts)
Dec., 1904.. 51,941 9 ~ „ 38,574 19,293/
£3207 written off Meters & Stoves Accounts 1 r 7f) »-«.
June, 1905.. 52,588 10 .„ „ 42,860 4,207/ °' u, ‘
In the drunken nights, when nearly everybody in Mel-
bourne said “Do the thing well,” and straightway
Went out and borrowed money to do it with, the
co. attained a lordly 211- per cent. div. ; and it is
slowly creeping up towards that dizzy height again. With
a city electric-lighl and power undertaking now on hand,
though, it is hardly likely to have the old times over
again. Still, the dividend is rather misleading. Though
shareholders have paid £857,210 into the business as
ordinary capital, they have put in another £466,535 as
premium capital (reckoned in with reserves in the table);
and that brings the 10 per cent, down to £6 9s. 6d. per
cent. Besides the capital, there are £848,000 of deben-
tures in the business, including £50,000 held by the co.
itself. On the whole amount-—capital, premium capital,
all other reserves, and debentures—the earnings reached
£6 2s. Id. per cent., after the writings off shown above
(£3207). The debentures carry about £4 16s. per ten',
on an average; and the difference between the
two figures is the profit made by the co. on
the borrowed money in return for the risk it runs.
If, however, instead of paying 21J per cent. divs. in the
drunk days, it had put some of it into the business, and
done without the debentures, it would now be getting £0
2s. Id. per cent, on the amount, instead of £1 6s. In
addition to the writing-off shown and the amount put
into new works, £21,704 was spent last half-year on
repairs and renewals and charged to revenue —an exact 2
per cent, on the capital expenditure. The whole reserves,
except the £50,000 of debentures mentioned, aie used in
the business ; and, anyhow, that’s better than borrowing
money to extend it with.


TRAMWAYS FOR MINES.
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling stock for manual, horse or loco, traction
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches, Turntables, &c.
INBENTS.— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives— i.e., EVERYTHING.
&3T Our CATALOGUE is yours for the asking, "Wk
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Ppop. Ltd., 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. A. E. LEPLASTRIER, Manager
Representing Orenstbin and Koppel, Ltd., London, Berlin and Paris.
Branches 504 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
Prospectors and others are requested to forward
samples of Asbestos and full particulars to Herbert
Soanes, the only Asbestos Specialist in Australasia.
Reports made and sales negotiated. Address: Herbert
Soanes, Asbestos Specialist, Box 202, P. 0., Perth, W.A.*
* * * *
The new electric light installation of the Mel-
bourne Exhibition Cycle Track, formed a great attraction
of the recent “ Austral ” meeting. The main feature of
the system is the “Ganz” brilliant arc lamp, forty of
which are distributed round the track, suspended on iron
brackets. The light is absolutely steady, soft and
diffused, doing away entirely with the injurious glare
common with other lamps and overcoming the objection-
able shadows in and under the globe. Special globes are
used which, while diffusing the light, do not cut off an
undue quantity and the effect is a light known
scientifically to be the best for all illuminating purposes.
The candle pow'er is more than four times that furnished
by other lamps at the same current consumption. Electric
lighting by the “ Ganz ” arc lamp is cheaper than any
other form of illuminant, both in first cost, in fixing and
in maintenance. The contractors for this installation
were the Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., corner
Hannah and Kavanagh streets, South Melbourne, Sole
Agents for Ganz and Co., Budapest, Hungary, who will
gladly furnish estimates and expert advice upon sirnilai
or any electrical schemes.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The Commercial World (London) July 15,
1904, writes with regard to the Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ In responding to the
cordial vote of thanks passed to the staff at the meeting
alluded to, the General Manager stated that the
stability and strength of the society had been growing
year by year and that at the end of the year 1903 it was
in a stronger position than ever before.”*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteOo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
placed an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
boilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, <ha u grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have a iso been
ordered from the same firm. This now mak.s 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
» * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange) for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* » * *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely good results. Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgoorlie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Otis Engineering' Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating' manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargili, N.Z.,
are also putting down ‘‘ Hornsby ” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th =0.005 milligramme = l/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Large stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * » *
The Queensland Smelting Company Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manager.*
DHOSPKORUS, Arsenic, Carbide; Castor Oil,
* Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Sheilac, “Sun
Brand” Chutney, Acetic, Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALDj
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
Sydney Febries, Ltd. (Sydney)
. _ Added
'Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1900 .. £4,701 7p.c.=£4200 £5Ol £5Ol
Dec., 1900.. 5,089 7,, ~ 4200 889 1,330
June, 1901.. 5,377 7„ ~ 4200 1177 2,567
Dec., 1901 .. 5,268 7„ ~ 4200 1068 3,635
June, 1902... 5,742 7„ „ 4200 1542 5,177
Dec., 1902.. 8,040 8,, „ 5453 2587 7,764
June, 1903.. 7,464 8 „ „ 5600 1564 9,628
Dec., 1903 .. 8,702 8„ „ 5600 3102 12,730
June, 1904 .. 10,339 10 „ ~ 7000 3339 16,069
Dec., 1904 .. 11,449 10 „ „ 7000 4439 20,56 S
June, 1905 .. 11,104 10 „ „ 7000 4104 24,672
The reserves consist of insurance fund £7OOO, reserve for
new steamers and special repairs £17,000, and undivided
profit £672. An undisclosed amount is also written off
out of profits for depreciation ; and these writings-down
appear to be extensive. Thus in June, 1903, ship property
stood in the balance-sheet at £61,795 ; now, though
two new vessels (Kulgoa and Kareela) have been added,
the total is £6l 326. New ferries are therefore being
paid for out of revenue, leaving the reserve created for
this purpose intact. Of course, as against that, some of
the old barges are getting nearer their end ; yet, alto-
gether, the position is remarkably strong, while the busi-
ness is so rich that, on the entire bulk of the assets, a
profit of just upon 13 per cent, is shown. Capital (£140,009)
and reserves earned £l3 16s. Bd. per cent., and that is
assuming that no more than a fair thing was written off
for depreciation. Fed at both ends by the State railway
and tramway systems, the Sydney Ferries can hardly
avoid coining money—while present conditions last.
* * * *
The North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
(Sydney)
Unexplained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- Off Re- Re-
Profits. serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1900.. £5581 £063 8 p.c. =£5250 £26,763
Dec., 1900.. 5518 733 8 „ „ 5250 27,767
June, 1901.. 5445 40 8 „ „ 5250 28,002
Dec., 1901.. 5480 8 ~ „ 5250 £BO 28,152
June, 1902.. 5507 13,097 8,, „ 5250 41,506
Dec., 1902.. 3988 2,894 8,, „ 5250 43,138
June, 1903.. 2583 6 ~ ~ 3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903.. 2665 500 6 „ ~ 3938 40,820
June, 1904.. 3992 775 6,, „ 393 S 41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5596 3,987 8 „ „ 5250 45,982
June, 1905.. 5860 4,542 8,, ~ 5250 61,134
The North Coast cow and corn are flourishing again, and
this co. flourishes with them. The principal movements
in its accounts are as hereunder :
June, Dec., June,
1900. 1904. 1905.
Capital .. ..£131,250 £131,250 £131,250
Reserves .. .. 26,763 45,982 51,134
Liabilities to public .. 48,343 8,599 44,803
Ship Property, .. 85,745 134,250 175’000
Freeholds .. .. 81,155 22,043 26,294
Sundry Debtors .. 16,199 18.431 22,279
Other Assets.. .. 23,257 11,107 3’fi64
In five years the fleet item has been more than doubled ;
£54,861 formerly in freeholds (since resumed by the
State) has been put upon the uncertain water, aud
another £19,593 has been taken from “other assets,”
mostly deposits, for the same purpose. Practically there
has been a complete reconstruction of the business; and
the figures are too erratic to be much of a guide as to how
the change will work out. Formerly the co.’s freehold
carried a mortgage of £40,000, which was wiped out, of
course, when the sale was made ; but the co.’s plunge
into deeper business (through taking over some smaller
shipping concerns) has wiped out its old credit balances
and driven it to borrow close upon another £40,000. It
is proposed, however, to extinguish this, or part of it, by a
new issue of shares. Meantime, two facts stand out—(1)
Reserves and everything else the co. has (and more) are
now used in the business, even the insurance reserve ; (2)
five years ago only 42 per cent, of the assets were ships,
but now they represent 81 per cent. This may possibly
mean bigger profits in good seasons ; it certainly mean's
heavier risks and depreciation.
* * He *
Elder, Smith, and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide), pas-
toral finance and wool-broking people :
Added
Written to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1899.. £20,601 6 p.c. = £11,400 £9,201 £23,923
1900.. 28,631 9 „ „ 17,100 11,531 35 454
1901.. 25,283 9 „ „ 17,100 £5OOO 3,183 38,637
1902.. 28,078 9 „ „ 17,100 6396 4,582 43 219
1903.. 29,964 9 „ „ 17,100 5000 7,864 51,083
1904.. 33,967 9 „ „ 17,100 5000 11,867 62,950
1905.. 36,532 10 „ ~ 19,000 4000 13,532 76,482
This highly profitable co. issues another satisfactory
report. Its net profits show £l2 17s. 3d. per cent, on its
capital (£190,000) and reserves ; while the whole of its
assets, though three-fifths of them are represented by
borrowed money, show net £2 17s. 9d. per cent. To some
extent this high return is due to the hard writing-down
of securities. The bulked “land, premises, plant, and
goodwill ” item has come down, in spite of additions, from
£138,500 to £48,640, thanks to the board’s policy of paying
away less than 60 per cent, of the profits. This year,
though the div. has been put up to 10 per cent., it still
absorbs only 52 per cent, of the profits. Other features
are as follows:
1899. 1904. 1905.
Deposits, &c £477,552 £547,281 £631,584
Other liabilities .. .. 305,983 418,617 120,196
Premises and plant .. 71,551 48,600 48’640
Govt, stock and cash ~ 164,239 175,726 , 247 966
Advances, &c. .. .. 463,992 550,282 604,’655
Other assets 309,103 455,640 130’,299
The “ other assets ” are largely also advances against pro-
duce shipments, for which apparently the co. gets special
accommodation, included in the foregoing among “ other
liabilities.” Apart from these “ other liabilities,” the
co. has 39 per cent, of its liabilities to the public in
liquid assets. No doubt, doing a pastoral finance business
in a droughty State, the co. takes a heavy risk ; but if the
business is handled in the same conservative way as the
co;’s own finances appear to be managed, the risk is cut
down very materially.
* * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1899.. £16,161 15 p.c. = £13,987 £2174 £6 936
Dec., 1899.. 36,845 12* „ „ 11,656 5189 12 125
June, 1900.. 19,557 12*,, ~ 11,656 7901 20 026
Dec., 1900.. 17,923 15 ~ ~ 13,987 3936 1
Premium on 13,500 new shares .. 3379 / J 7,341
June, 1901.. 14,116 15 „ „ 15,000 26 457
Dec., 1901.. 10,250 10 ~ ~ 10,000 250 2e’707
June, 1902.. 11,386 10 „ „ 10,000 1386 28 093
Dec., 1902.. 13,200 10 „ „ 10,000 3200 3L293
June, 1903.. 12,893 10 „ „ 10,000 2893 34,186
Dec., 1903.. 1,421 5 ~ ~ 5,000 30 607
June, 1904.. 9,456 5 ~ ~ 5,000 4456 35’063
Dec., 1904.. 12,080 10 „ „ 10,000 2080 37’143
June, 1905.. 15,622 10 „ ~ 10,000 5622 42’765
The co. claims to have reserves of £67,959, but £25,194 of
this is represented by paper assets—Parliamentary rights,
&c.— and in the foregoing is disregarded. Capital is
£200,000, with £3379. paid as premium for new shares ;
and in 33 years co. has to hand over the whole undertak-
ing without compensation. After paying current debts
the assets which it won’t have to hand over total £77,097.’
In 13 years, therefore, besides earning interest ’and
paying for upkeep, it has to get back £126,282. This
calls for a sinking fund of about £7500 a year. To give
5 p.c. on the investment and make the necessary contri-
bution to sinking fund £8750 profit is required each
half-year. Hitherto, however, the co. has preferred to
paji away more than 5 p.c. in divs., and put aside less
than £7500 a year ; the average lay-by in the past four
years has been only £4077. This means that the co. has
been paying part of the higher divs. out of capital. A
satisfactory feature from shareholders’ point of view is
that prospects of a rival water scheme are at present
about nil, and the nearer the time conies for the public
to get the co.’s undertaking without paying for it, the
less the chances of opposition will be. A 'less satisfactory
feature is the probability of heavy future expense
in repairs, etc., to keep the scheme workable. The eo. a
reserves, as shown above, are wholly in fixed deposits or
public stock ; and of the £77,097 of more or ess liquid
assets mentioned above (including- reserves), £49,060 are
in deposits, cash, or public stock ; the balance in movable
plant, premises, meters, etc.
The Denton Mills Hat Factory Co. (Mel-
boUrne): - Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
June. Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1896 ..£3074 1 0 p.c. =£2330 £744 £2162
1897 . 3367 10 „ „ 2330 £IS23 13/6
1898 .. 3628 10 „ „ 2330 - 1,298 2674
1899 .. 3156 10 „ ~ 2445 711 Soso
New Share Premiums .. .. 31 3416
1900 .. 3114 10 „ „ 2450 664 4080
1901 .. 2857 10 ~ ~ 2450 407 4487
1903 .. 2955 10 „ ~ 2450 505 4992
1903 .. 3263 10 „ ~ 2554 1045 4631
1904 .. 3117 10 ~ ~ 2990 127 4,53
1905 .. 3208 'lO ~ ~ 3000 203 4966
Under Victoria’s Protective tariff this industry got in a
good foundation ; and, though either its business is not
increasing- or its profits are smaller than they were, still it
stands a, one of the most successful manufacturing- busi-
nesses of the Commonwealth, and a tribute to the value
of Protection as a means of giving profitable employment
to both labor and capital. It has no debts apart from
trade accounts (£6472), and it is able to wuite off (in addi-
tion to the amounts shown above) about 12J or 15 per
cent, per annum for wear and tear of plant, &c.
« * * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)
Applied
to
Written Reduce
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1901..£588 5 p.c. =£437 £227 £14,649
June, 1902.. 573 5,, „ 437 107 £29 14,620
Deb., 1902.. 518 5 „ „ 437 44 37 14,533
June, 1903.. 344 5 „ ~ 437 14,676
Dec., 1903.. 410 5 „ ~ 437 14,703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 nil 14,502
Profit.
Dec., 1904.. 120 nil 120' 14,682
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c. = 437 28 14,654
In the foregoing- the paper item, “ Goodwill, lease, &c.,
£15,000,” is not treated as an asset. Another item,
“ Improvement account, £1192,” probably ought also to
be discarded. In the effort to show enough profit to pay
a dividend, the matter of wear and tear of the crockery,
furniture, <Scc., has apparently been quite overlooked ; so
that, strictly speaking, the div. hasn’t been earned.
Apart from the paper item mentioned above, the co.’s
assets, after paying current liabilities, total £1654, and
some of them look as though they should be written
down. The paid capital is £17,500.
* * * *
The Newcastle WallsendCoal Co. (N.SW.):
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.'
June, 1900.. £7,577 15 p.c. = £7,500 £77 £51,471
Dee., 1900.. 10,183 20 „,, 10,000 183 51,654
June, 1901.. 15,534 30 ~ ~15,000 534 52,188
Dec., 1901.. 17,968 35 ~ ~ 17,500 468 52,656
June, 1902.. 17,645 35 ~ ~ 17,500 145 62,801
Dec., 1902.. 17,673 35 ~ ~ 17,500 173 52,974
June, 1903.. 15,202 30 ~ ~ 15,000 202 53,176
Dec., 1903.. 9,566 20 „ ~10,000 52,742
June, 1904.. 4,009 15 ~ ~ 7,500 49,251
Dec., 1904.. 5,003 10 ~ ~ 5,000 3 49,254
June, 1905.. 5,027 10 ~ ~ 5,000 27 49,281
But to a great extent the reserves are nominal. Though
the mine has been worked continuously, and must there-
fore be worth much less, it and the plant are now included
at £93,297, as against £90,603 five years ago. For a
mining co. its position is, however, unusually good ; for
though its principal asset is wasting, it has a surplus of
£59,339 of liquid assets (mostly loans) over current lia-
bilities. But in that respect the position isn’t improving ;
five years ago the surplus w-as £63,356.
* * * *
Vale of Clwydd Coal-mining Co. (N.S.W.)
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 ..£1648 10 p.c. = £l5OO £l4B £757
June, 1901 .. 1546 10 ~ ~ 1500 46 803
Dec., 1901 .. 1899 10 „ „ 1500 399 1202
June, 1902 .. 1794 10 ~ ~ 1500 294 1496
Dec., 1902 .. 1518 10 „ ~ 1500 18 1514
June, 1903 .. 1541 10 ~ ~ 1500 41 1555
Dec., 1903 .. 1880 10 „ ~ 1500 380 1935
June, 1904 .. 1618 10 „ ~ 1500 118 2053
Loss.
Dec., 1904 .. 157 5 „ „ 750 1146
Profit.
June, 1905 .. 1606 10 ~ ~ 1500 106 1252
Previous half-year’s loss was due to the M‘Laughlin share
litigation, provided for by a suspense account (not rec-
koned above as a reserve), which now stands at £1843.
Apparently about £3OO has already been paid out. Under-
stood this co. isn’t anxious to follow' the Sydney D.T. 00.
into the new litigation, but is on the way to fix matters
up. After paying div., co.’s surplus of liquid assets over
liabilities is £10,506 ; so it has now less than two-thirds
of its capital sunk in plant and lands.
* * * *
On the day B.H. Block 10 got back to the div.-
list, after wholly remodelling its plant, neighboring Sul-
phide Corporation had a creep, and Block 10 workings
“talked” in sympathy. “Talking” doesn’t always
mean a crash, but it always means a strain, and the
greater probability of a crash in the future. Reminded
of this danger, the market eased off on Block 10 and all
Barrier stocks. Still in this case Sulphide Corp. is the
worst sufferer—how' much of a sufferer it may take
months to find out. Over 1000 men had to be called out
for the time, but they will be put back by driblets. Three
things are mainly responsible for these movements. (1) In
the old days the co.’s tried to keep up the worked-out
places of the mines w'ith Oregon timber, and didn’t re-
place the ore with mullock. As the timbers rot, or as the
weight they have to support increases, they collapse ; and
Nature abhors a vacuum. (2) Even when mullock is shot
into worked-ou stopes, it settles down after a while, and
leaves small spaces between the roof and its support; and
Nature abhors a small vacuum also. (3) There is usually
weakness near the boundary of two mines. Sometimes
each co. loafs on the other, and depends upon it to pro-
vide proper support for the overburden thereabout. (Even
when they don’t loaf, the absence of a common plan of
w'orking causes weakness. The only absolutely safe plan
is to leave pillars of ore each side of the boundary ; and,
of course, no mine likes to do that. Yet it would prob-
ably be cheaper in the long run. Certainly it would be
less risky to life. There are still several unrecovered
corpses buried under former crushes.
* * * *
B.H. North made £14,747 profit last half-year
(to June 30). Nothing, however, was written off machi-
nery, &c.; and £1761 previously spent on new shaft has
not heen charged against revenue. Co. treated 34,934 tons
ore, which averaged 19-31 per cent, lead and 7-03 oz.
silver; 73‘33 per cent, of the lead and 53’12 per cent, of
the silver were recovered. This is, as things go, an excel-
lent recovery ; B.H. South, which stands very close to the
top of the list in this matter, if not at the ‘top, got out
73-14 per cent, of the lead and 52'93 per cent, of the
silver in the last half-year for which figures have
been published. But, w'hereas South only left in
9- per cent, of the undesirable zinc, North left in
10- per cent. As to costs, North spent, apart
from development,' 11s. sd. per ton of ore for
mining and 4s. 3d. for milling; South, 9s. 4Jd. for
mining and 3s. B£d. for milling. Lead contents of the
concentrates were 4948 tons ; silver, 130,6390 z. Profit
was equal to £2 19s. Bd. per ton of the lead produced ;
that is to say, lead would have to fall £2 19s. Bd. below’
the half-year’s average of £l2 13s. 6d. per ton before pro-
fit w'ould disappear, assuming silver to remain stationary'
and w orking conditions unchanged. Estimated that, at
present rate of production, mine has seven years’ ore-
reserves developed; but those figures are not worth
much, since no reliable estimate of the metal value of the
reserves has been made.
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), which is alleged
to have struck a rich shoot in the much-despised Great
Western, moves in the market. Stated that Moore pro-
cess of slimes treatment is to he duplicated, a new rock
breaker installed, and an additional 10-head are to go on
to the mill. Obviously, if this expense is to be incurred,
one 3d. dividend (£11.00) will about absorb the balance of
profits for the year. Occidental is a low-grade proposi-
tion, but expenses are kept in the region of 9s. per ton,
and it has a new lease of life from purchase of Great
Western ; so there’s no reason (when additions to plant
are made) why regular dividends shouldn’t be paid.
* * * *
Nymagee Copper Mine (N.S.W.), which the
Cobar syndicate has been running at a loss for the past
couple of years, now (under G. H. Blakemore’s supervi-
sion) looks like making a recovery. New furnace lately
erected gives a 12ft. charge, against the old-style 6 to 7ft.
roast, result being that smelting capacity is doubled, and
output of copper gets to a respectable weekly 20 to 22
tons, against an average of 9 tons for 1904. Mine is,
unfortunately, low-grade, but it takes 250 men off the
unemployed market, and if there’s inducement enough in
present improvements, furnace capacity will be dupli-
cated, and employment given to some more.
» * * *
Keep-it-Dark, Wyalong (N.S.W.), has just
crushed 12 tons for llooz. gold.
* * * »
Buddigawer, near Wyalong (N.9.W.), tin and
silver, has made another call of a farthing—presumably
to keep up office expenses and do a little scratching. Yet
Buddigower would have a show if properly developed.
But it seems as though it will first have to pass into other
hands.
* * * *
At Bennion’s strike, in the Lady Mary shaft,
Croydon (N.Q.), the water still has the upper hand, and a
second shaft is being - sunk, in the hope that the reef will
be reached at 120 ft., and the sink proved dry. The better
risk would seem to be an increase in pumping power, for
if the water is met in the second shaft, the gold will be
as far off as ever. Even if the find is but a shattered por-
tion of the Lady Mary or Iguana reef, it’s better to have
one hole in the ground and a new pump than two holes in
the ground. The development is being watched very
eagerly, for if the old reefs are picked up beyond the
intrusive granite, and are not faulted materially, Croydon
gold production should increase vastly.
* * * *
Phoebe, Charters Towers, has declared 2s. on
paids and Is. on contribs. Last crushing was 295 tons for
2270 z ; concentrates, £359 ; residues, £l5O. No. 5 east
stope shows signs of wear, and will not last much longer.
Previous to finding this patch a crushing from all parts
of the mine went under Joz. Tributes were to let ;so
many rushed No. 5 that the co. withdrew it and worked
that itself. A strong reef is showing in the underlie, but
it is only 7dwt. stuff, and not worth prospecting, as the
sink is near the boundary. Hanging wall at No. 6 east
shows good stone, although small as yet. The end of
divs. from current profits seems in sight.
* * * *•
Queen Cross Extended, Charters Towers, crushes
well, if there was more of it. Co. is in 60,000 ss. shares,
all contributing, and is about to reconstruct on the
strength of 51 tons for 128 oz. ; residues to come. The
four inches of stone now being worked is very patchy, and
there is no sign of it making bigger.
M‘Coil’s P.C., a hoz. show near Charters
Towers, is in distress, as was to be expected. Co. admits
by making two Id. calls that it can’t make a do of things
on 3ft. of Joz. stone at a depth of 60ft. Explained that
the proceeds from sands usually pay for crushing, but
this time they didn’t. Claim, 450x400 feet, was boomed
as a 6oz. show, and never had a hope with a capital of
£30,000.
♦ * * *
W.A. is excited at proposed reduction of wages
after August 31, on expiry of period fixed by Arbitration
Court. Proposed reduction will make a difference to the
fields of quite £150,000 yearly, of which one-third will be
deducted from workers on Golden Mile. Such a reduction
will only cheapen costs about Is. 3d. a ton, and materially
injure the prosperity of the State. Far greater economies
could be realised by improving the treatment plants on
most of the leading mines. For instance, last year treatment
costs panned outthus :G\valiass. 3d., Cosmopolitan ss. 10d.,
Fingall 7s. lid., Ivanhoe 9s. 10d., Boulder 14s. Id., Oroya
15s. 10d., and Perseverance 255. 3d. There seems to be
something very far wrong- when there is such a variety in
treatment costs, and especially when the three first-named
mines, which are right away in the backblocks, treat their
ore so much cheaper than those situated at Kalgoorlie.
Ivanhoe and Boulder are only separated by an imaginary
line, yet there is a difference of 4s. 3d. a ton in their costs.
Perseverance again is divided from Boulder by an imagi-
nary line, and yet treatment costs are 11s. 2d. a ton dearer.
As all mines and plants are open to inspection, it seems
absurd that Perseverance directors and shareholders
should continue to pay £120,000 a year more than they
would on the basis of the other’s costs.
* * * *
Returns of chief W.A. mines for June Fine
gold : Fingall, 13,6610 z. ; Horseshoe, 13,1610 z. ; Oroya,
12,9180 z. ; Ivanhoe, 10.6690 z. ; Perseverance, 96790 z. ; Asso-
ciated, 45750 z. ; Gwalia, 53150 z. ; Kalgurli, 44690 z. ; Lake
View Consols, 37030 z. ; Associated Northern, 36680 z. ;
Cosmopolitan, 21410 z. ; East Murchison United, 16410 z. ;
Hainault, 17420 z. ; Mertons, 12340 z. ; Lancefield, 15070 z, ;
Bellevue, 15490 z. ; Ida H., 10390 z. ; Vivien, 7090 z. ; Star,
7190 z. ; South Kalgurli, 6450 z. ; W.F. Main Beefs, 5050 z. ;
North Kalgurli, 4990 z. ; Hannan’s Beward, 2350 z.
Bullion Boulder, 12,0700 z. ; Mount Morgans, 17980 z. ;
Golden Pole, 29410 z. ; Princess Boyal, 13290 z. ; North
Feather, 13870 z. ; Golden Bidge, 1017 oz. ; Menzies Con-
sols, 1106 oz. ; Potosi, 841 oz. ; Cumberland, 6960 z. ; Bed
Hill, 7310 z. ; Mulga Queen, 841 oz. ; Princess Alix, 500 oz. ;
Lady Bobinson, 3720 z. ; South Gippsland, 3170 z. ; Waihi,
3370 z. ; Craiggiemore, 3920 z. During month following
co.’s worked at a loss -Mt. Morgans, £6500 ; Princess
Boyal, £750 ; W.F. Main Beefs, £650 ; Waihi, £450 ; and
Potosi, £100; while Vivien, Star, and North Kalgurli
came out about even.
* * * *
Associated, Kalgoorlie, is opening up better
than ever. At 1400 ft. the so-called Australia East lode is
being stoped out 22ft. wide, and all ore is going to mill.
In Gleisberg’s and Ledoux’s days only 7ft. were being
stoped ; the remaining 15ft. were left. At 1200 ft. this
same lode carries a rich dab, worth 15oz. per ton, which
can be used to sweeten returns. At 1000 ft. the Oroya
shoot has been followed by an inclined winze for about
100 ft., and is at least 40ft. wide. In the face, streaks of
telluride are showing. Average value is 2Joz. This
shoot is very flat, the hanging-wall being very nearlv
horizontal. A crosscut at '2ooft. has been driven about
250 ft. east from Judd’s shaft, and two drilling machines
are at work rising, to try and locate continuation of
Oreya shoot, which is expected to be found shortly.
Mine is in a better position than it has been for years, and
by end of year co. will be treating 9000 to 10,000 tons
monthly at a cost for mining and treatment of about 20s.
South Kalgurli is expected to turn out an
average return for July. During June mill ran about
14 days, and treated 2100 tons, worth 265. 3d. per ton.
Low grade of ore is ascribed to superior stuff being put
through for the preliminary run. It will be interesting
to see how costs pan out.; but profits can’t be very large,
and shares seein overvalued.
* * * *
Knowing ones predict a rise for Lyells (Tas.).
Yet there is no more reason now why shares should
advance than that people should expect to get 20s. per
share back out of the Briseis. With the palmy days
thrown in, Lyell co. returned about a million to share-
holders, and there isn’t much chance of it paving a like
amount out of the low-grade stuff in “ the Blow,” and
the ever-narrowing formation in the North Lyell. Yet
shares at 20s. taeans that the co. has a market value of a
million. Everyone knows, or ought to know, that the-
mine has not got anything like that profit in view. Bull
has been well-educated on that point, and so he isn’t
helping Melbourne folk to unload, though they badly
want him to assist.
* * * *
Peter Finlay son stood by .his colors again at the
Long Tunnel Extd. meeting in Melbourne. Such pluck
would have made him the hero of a dozen forlorn hopes
had he been fighting against the little yellow men in the
North. “We must win,” is the true cry in life, whether in
mining or in anything else. The only pity is that he hasn’t
got quite the measure of things ahead. But how can Mr.
Bawson, the new mine manager, say that, judging from the
stone at No. 24 level, stdne at No. 25 level should be very
fair? By a parity of reasoning, because stone at No. 22
was good, that at No. 23 ought to have been good too.
But it wasn t, and the co. had to put up an overdraft as
a consequence. Everyone at the meeting missed old
Dick Noble, with his perennial wheeze that there was
five years’ stone in the mine.,
Main Leads North, Maryborough (Vic.), has
snoozled out a shilling bonus as a sort of majority gift.
And the question naturally arises when, how, and where,
did the board accumulate the funds with which to perform
this act of g'enerosity. Once the M. L. North had a
“bank,” but there was such a hullabaloo over it that
quarterly statements were to be made of its extent. No
one quite remembers having seen any quarterly reports.
Was the bonus another way of letting out the hoardV
* * * *
Champion, Ten Mile (Vic.), the other day
startled Melbourne by wiring “ 30ft. through lode ; pay-
able ; no wall yet.” Noyv where can that wall be ? Has
a slide carried it into the adjoining Star of the West to
help matters there ? Or is it to be found enclosing the bears
that got nipped over their little “ out ” in the Extended ?
And 30ft. of payable stuff to work on ! Most people are
content with something under 6ft. Still, if you are a
champion there is no use in being satisfied with little
things. So hey for the 30ft. of payable stuff, even though
the market doesn’t jig a threepenny bit !
-b. Conee writes, re Carrington P.C., Char-
ters Towers (N.Q.) and some remarks (B. 20/7/’O5) regard-
ing: the directors’ silence as to the gold contents, that he
visited the mine on June 4 and had an assay made of
stone from 60ft. It went 6oz. 18dwt. gold, Boz. silver, 14
p.c. copper. Bulletin’s complaint is, not that there is no
gold in the show, but that the management doesn’t an-
nounce publicly and frankly the result of developments.
(Continued on page 21).


The (l)ark of Quality.
The Name of David Jones and Company
is like the sterling mark on silver—it is the
STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE. So that
when you invest in an “ Orient to Measure
Suit ” at 631- you are certain of getting a
suit that will please.
Spring Suitings now ready. Write for
patterns and measurement forms.
Sent, carriage paid, to any P. 0. in the
Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
SYDNEY.
* /
i * m
\i
f
(JjRSET.'J ;
EXQUISITE MODELS. PERFECT FIT.
•* GUARANTEED WEAR, jt jt
THE NF.W
P. D.
... CORSETS
+
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
Society
CANDIAN
CLUB
WHISKY
The word “colonial” is being gradually
weeded out of Australian affairs. “Colonial”
Secretary has now almost wholly disappeared,
and “ colonial’’. occurring in licenses to sell Aus-
tralian wines is under sentence of removal.
Public companies, such as the Colonial Mutual
Insurance and the Colonial Bank, are supposed to
be considering the situation.
A LUCID EXPLANATION.
MR. BARRELL: “ Look here, chaps (hic), if wifesh
asksh why I've bin she late (hic) you two
shay thatsh I had to shee you home (hie)
won't we? ”
THE CHORUS (in a high note): “ Sherlainly!”
“Roma,” from the Big Tree land
Victorian State schools hold annual arbor days. The
game is rather farcical in Gippsland, where weeks are
spent clearing a school site. Great care is taken to grub
up all stumps and cut scrub, &c. As soon as the building
is erected the kids are expected to plant native trees to
beautify the school grounds. I spent an hour or more last
Friday (arbor day) impressing on some South Gipns-
landers, who had been home for days ringing giant »'uni
and wattle trees, the advantages of tree-planting as lead-
ing to cool shade for man and beast, shelter for o-rass
timber, beauty, &c. When I had finished my harangue I
said to a simple-looking youth, “Now, Abraham, What
does a person do who plants a tree?” “Digs a’ole
mum,” was the answer. In one Gippsland school-yard 80
such oles were dug, and filled in with the arch-enemy of
the settler. •
The other day, at the corner of Bourke
an d Russell streets, Melbourne, Percy Bandage,
or Rampage, that well-known police basher, was
m the thick of a noble fight. He was on a tram-
car, and objected to paying the fare. The con-
ductor, ignorant of Percy Rampage and his dis-
tinguished record, hove P. Scrimmage off. As
Rampage landed on the road on his feet, the con-
ductor landed on it on the broad of his back. A
senior-constable moved over, and the fun began.
He seized Percy round the neck from behind.
Percy spread his arms out, and the senior also lay
on the ground, sore in two places. It was 1
o clock. Ihe beats were being changed, and
just as the senior-constable rolled on the blocks a
squad of nine returning cops came up. Two big
fellows bore down on Percy, and closed. Percy
let out with his left. A bobby grabbed it. He
swung in the right. Another secured it. Then
Percy’s large brown paw clutched the back of the
tallest bobby’s neck ; there was a wrench, and
about 16st. of astonished policeman was lying
huddled up on the ground. The other seven
closed in and the fight raged tumultuously up and
down the road. There seemed to be 17 of Percy.
The police would fall on as many of him as possible
and lie on him, but suddenly there would be an
upheaval and Percy would break out, and when
he broke out the air was just crowded with
innumerable Percy. The campaign lasted five
minutes, and then a bobby found his hand on
Percy’s windpipe. He squeezed hard and soon
Percy was spread on the road, handcuffed, thrown
into a cart with four of the heaviest policemen to
sit on him, and taken to the watchhouse. P.
Rampage is incorrigible. He has had long sen-
tences, and has pretty well owned the gaol while
serving them. He has had short sentences, and
has badly damaged the gaol. He has had in-
numerable chances to reform. He has had skilly
and spiritual consolation. He has been exhorted
and arrested, yet his desire to smite every police-
man remains unquenched. And when Percy
smites he does smite.
* * * *
In Melbourne, the other day, a man con-
victed of ringing the changes on a shopkeeper
scored a successful appeal against the magisterial
decision, not because he didn’t work a swindle,
but because the charge had been wrongly worded.
Next day the Supreme Court quashed the con-
viction of a Chow lottery-“ banker” on the ground
that the prosecution had produced no evidence to
prove that a Chow “bank” meant a lottery. If
this point hadn’t been available the heathen might
have got off on the ground that the prosecution
had forgotten to prove that a Chow was a Chow
and not a wombat. Australian legal procedure
seems to be getting more and more like a game of
skittles. One court sets up a conviction and
another court knocks it over—on appeal. The
prisons are inhabited only by unfortunates who
can't pay for appeals.
“A. D. : A common topic in shearers’
hut and drovers’ camp is—“ What sort of
death would you like to die, matey?” In
my most desperate moments I never fancied
hanging as a means of changing the
scenery ; although there are periods when
rope is pretty fashionable among bushmen.
People who poison themselves lack im-
agination ; death ought to be taken seri-
ously, not in spasms. All men dread the
moment when the last breath drives them
on their big star journey, yet probably
there is more real agony in watching the
last beer fade into the other fellow’s cir-
cumference. The average bush-worker
says, from sheer force of habit, that drown-
ing is a comfortable way of passing yourself
out. But the Australian bushy s know-
ledge of water is limited. He sees it
in a billy, a quart at a time, or in a
mud-streak that is called a river. His idea
of a genuine deep-water drown is of small
value. I fell out of a yacht once off
Holyhead and I drank Irish Sea for seven
minutes. It is worse than being burnt
alive. A 400-gallon tank will be big
enough for me next time. Burning is a
nice, dry death. Nero wept because they
wouldn’t burn him alive. Said he’d rub the
tar on himself if Marcus Somebody would
lend him a match. Burning is a death
that calls for a fair trial. Suicides are
prejudiced against a few degrees of heat.
Their ideas run to wetting themselves.
Most poisons are wet; the slow bleed bath
is wet; shooting and hanging are not so
dry as they look in print. Wetness, like
wheels, has got hold of humanity. If men
invent a thing to go fast, they clog it with
pair of wheels. I want to see the Order
of Dry Suicides spring to the front. It
would be better than going on the land and
joining the Order of Dry Insolvents.
* * » •
The wise Biblical person who remarked
that there was nothing new under the sun should
ponder over the origin of a Ballarat fire last week.
The pet ’possum of the household strayed into a
back room where an incubator was at work and
upset the artificial hen. In all probability, no
fire had been previously caused in the history of
the world through a pet ’possum upsetting an in-
cubator, and it would be an interesting problem
for some enthusiastic actuary to work out the
precise chances of such a thing occurring again.
EXPLAINED!
NEW CHUM: “ Can’t see why the deuce it should
be a penny postage from England to Aus-
tralia and two pence from Australia to Eng-
land, when the distance is the same both ways .”
AUSTRALIAN: “Ah, my boy, but Australia is a
country of quite another stamp.”
If Prince Charles of Denmark secures the
Norwegian throne, that young man may consider
fortunate, as a number of substantial
“lives” make his chance of succeeding to the
billet of Danish King rather remote. Also, Den-
mark has not too much money to throw away bn
its swarm of princes, and at present the Charleses
have not even a house to themselves. They
occupy a fiat in the building where the High
Court of Justice holds its sittings. Of course,
Mrs. Charles (formerly Maud of Wales) still draws
an annual grant from the long-suffering British
taxpayer, which will help to provide the couple
with bread and dripping. The old Danish kmg
and his late wife showed a remarkable knack of
finding “good stiddy jobs” for themselves and
their descendants. It is something to have, all in
one family, a King and Queen of Denmark, Queen
of England, Empress of Russia, King of Greece,
and now a possible King of Norway. When he
called Alexandra “a viking’s daughter from over
the sea,” Tennyson probably thought it policy to
close his eyes to the fact that her parents were
both of the common or minor German brand of
royalty, and Danish only in virtue of residence.
Their ancestors didn’t vike—they stayed at home
heavily and drank beer.
* * * *
A lawyer of Wellington (M.L.) has started
an Anti-Shouting League, to the end that “un-
reasonable consumption of intoxicating liquor may
be reduced.” There has been something of a rush
for membership, and men who have “ drunk with
the flies ” for many years past now flash their
Anti-Shouting tickets by way of explanation,
instead of waiting, as of yore, for a clear run to
the fourpenny bar where the Jimmy Woodser
dwells. Scoffers allege that the favorite drink of
members is “ Scotch,” without being able to carry
conviction to the public that there is not a good
deal of common-sense in the Anti-Shouting idea.
The convention which says that when six acquaint-
ances are gathered together each one shall shout
for all involves a sad waste of money and liver,
and needs to be attacked. Moreover, shouting is
a gregarious habit tending to congestion of popu-
lation, while the lonesome instinct which leads a
man to “go on the land” and develope the
country’s great natural resources is best cultivated
by solitary drinking.
* * * *
The absurd practice of letting off cannon at
any excuse was illustrated on the recent announce-
ment that Vice-Admiral Fanshawe had been pro-
moted to be a full-blown Admiral. It took 27
loud explosions to relieve the British Navy’s over-
charged feelings when the news came.
The story of a man who thought
murders were being perpetrated
in the next room at his hotel,
and after raising Gehenna,
found the supposed homi-
cide was merely an
actor rehearsing, i*
as stale as the
lays of the hens
of ancient Rome.
It was time for
the variant, and
the variant has
come. A gentle-
man prominent in
the Victorian beer
industry now tells
of comingthrough
the park between
Richmond and
the city of Mel-
bourne after train
time one night,
and being startled
by a cry tor help.
He moved nearer,
and then heard
a man’s voice
threatening de-
struction. “No,
no, no ! Don’t kill
me, Henry! Re-
member what I’ve
been to you ! ”
said the soprano.
“You must die !”
replied the bari-
to n e hoarsely.
“ Prepare to meet
your do-o-o-o-M.”
It was all so
theatrical, the
phrases so con-
ventional, the
voices so melo-
dramatic, that the
brewer laughed and
moved on. “ It’s a
queer time and place
for rehearsing amateur
theatricals ” was his thought,
but he concluded lightly that
it would not be safe for such
actors to perform aloud anywhere
near to living people and loose bricks.
The Herald of the following evening contained a
shrieking account of a particularly brutal murder,
perpetrated in Richmond Park about one o’clock
that morning, the victim being a woman, whose
throat was cut from ear to ear. The brewer had
good domestic reasons for not having been in
Richmond Park at that hour, so he said nothing ;
but the baritone was hanged without his assistance.
* * * *
A nice abject billet is projected for some
nice abject young man by the Prahran (Vic.)
municipality. The town clerk finds that the
greater part of his time in winter is taken up by
social affairs. Instead of working out schemes
for the improvement of the municipality and the
people who live in it, he spends hours of highly-
paid time in writing invitations for balls; and,
instead of reading up the progress of municipalism
in other centres, he is dragged out of his
office to receive broad persons treading on
strips of colored carpet at the door of the
town hall. Accordingly it is proposed to
appoint a “social mentor” who will carry out
the work of glorified flunkeydom, write invitations
in a nice round hand, bow gracefully to eminent
persons and see that the common people are kept
in their proper places. And, so far, no councillor
of Prahran has had the manliness to denounce the
whole practice of tacking society functions on to
the office of Mayor. To the mass of Australians,
a Mayor exists for the purpose of wearing an
exciting ’possum rug, giving an annual ball to
those rate-payers most servile m their chase after
invitations, and presiding at bazaar openings and
other minor casualties of society. The sooner
somebody knocks the idea on the head that the
president of a municipality should keep up a sort
of burlesque imitation of a European court the
better for everybody. One thing to be said in the
favor of White Knight EitzGibbon is that he has
suppressed all attempts to surround the Metro-
politan Board of Works with social frills. That
body has never given a ball in its big drain yet.
* * * *
Cassell’s Saturday Journal gives some
glittering samples of royal humor:—
It is many a long year since King Edward himself gave
the reins to his fancy by dubbing the late Sir Charles Hall
“ Charley Corridor,” and these examples of society humor
would be sadly incomplete if one were to omit the classic
jest of Princess Charles of Denmark, when she called her
first niece (Lady Alexandra Duff) “ The Little Duffer ”
Again and again the Duke of Fife himself has been in-
vited by his quizzical sister-in-law to l< Lay on, Macduff! ”
Truly royalty is a shrieking humorist when it lets
itself go.
* * * *
Dill Macky’s infuriated Sydney sheet last
week announced on its posters “Roman Catholic
church raided : a priest arrested ; gambling kit
seized ! ” and the public bought excitedly—and
found that all this joy was in far-off America
lor a while the hope was entertained that Bill
Wilks and Dill Macky and Tomato Jessep had
really got on to the work of suppressing Home in
this country. But the people who vote the Orange
ticket here will still have to be content with flap-
doodle about the remote walls of Derry.
TO THE DREAMERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I am quite prepared to start ’em (industries) to-mor-
row—on a collective basis.” —Holman, M.L.A.
“We are prepared to wait for the works until the
people are ready to run them on national lines from the
start.” — Holman, M.L.A.
You are dreaming of the good things that may happen
by-and-by ;
You would wander by the moon, or on the sunny grass
would lie,
And talk to us of visions splendid glowing in the sky.
We would speak as men and brothers ; put these things
awhile aside.
Are we not, indeed a nation? Have we not a nation’s
pride ?
For your visions of the future must the living present
bide?
You have shibboleths and phrases while the hungry cry
for bread ;
Talk of wonders of the future—-when our goal is just
ahead.
Our wonders wait the winning in the ground whereon we
tread.
Oh, the children of the future will be very proud of j 7 ou
They’ll remember to your credit that the things you
wouldn’t do
Were the reasons they were sacrificed and mortgaged to
the Jew.
vio.
KARDLLA.


BOOKKEEPING
Taught by Post. We
have the HIGHEST
SUCCESSES iu Accoun-
tants’ Examinations.
Intending Candidates thoroughly prepared in all
subjects. “ Home Study ” post free.
Stott & Hoare’s Business College
MOORE STRE2T, next Citizens’Life Building. [1
Though Boreas on biting blast
Howls from the frozen Pole,
And swept before him, flying past,
The sullen storm-cloulds roll;
Though coughs and colds are in his wake,
Yet still I feel secure,
And fear him not, because I take
Some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
nrst class artists are engaged. The establishment
" nder the P atr °nage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
SILVER
THE
BEST
IN
THE
WORLD
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128=130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
king street,
Tl,. Most Comfortable aod Up-to-dat, I. the City. Patron, may depend upon tt.r.neh attention
F.C. : Had a ride round Wllliamstown
(Vie.) in one of my new motor’buses—it isn’t all
mine, but I’m responsible for my share of the
cost, and it wasn’t built out of borrowed money—
ordered by my agent, Railways Minister Bent,
it was a joyous-looking vehicle, with an ocean-
wave sort of motion about it. Take a common or
threepenny tramcar, cut it in two, board up the
back, let two sliding-doors in each side, and stick
the front haberdashery of an ordinary motor-car
under the front platform—and there you are. It
seats 18 besides the driver. The conveyance did
its 12 miles an hour easily, and wheeled and turned
c c >: cl,st - Bent says he is going to run
the first few down at Elwood, and if he’ll let them
career along that foreshore at top-speed, they will
do a roaring business for a while.
PROBABLY NOT.
H E: So you have given up searching for your
ideal? ”
S HE: “ Yes. I have come to the conclusion that
there is no impossible man outside the realms
of fiction.”
The lonely tiger that prowls around a por-
tion of Victoria is just now making footprints in
the Bairnsdale district, and the local inhabitants
are carrying firearms with intent to murder the
poor beast, if possible. The Tantanoola tiger of
tradition appears to be a melancholy fact. Some
people have seen the wandering quadruped, and
many have followed its tracks, but nobody knows
of any reason for wanting to shoot it. What the
tiger requires is a friendly summons from the next
person who gets within cooee of its dejected smile,
and is prepared to invite confidence by proffering'
some cat’s-meat on a skewer. Premier Bent
visited Bairnsdale last week, and Bent has pub-
licly snorted at his unfortunate fellow-countrymen
who haven t “brains enough to carry guts to a
bear.” Nevertheless he missed this chance to
chase the hermit tiger with cat’s-meat.
Premier Bent and his engineers still
meander along the swampy, froggy tenor of their
way in the matter of the Elwood Canal and the
surrounding depression. The Bluff has practi-
cally disappeared. The swamp is slowly being
filled in, mostly with sewerage
spoil, and the canal has got
almost its whole length
covered with 4in. of
cement and rubble
and lOin. of sand.
This blessed water-
way is now barely
sft. below the sur-
rounding country,
at its lowest point,
so what will tran-
spire when a flood
arises only Bent pre-
tends to know. A
canal 30ft. wide by
4Jft. deep won’t
carry much flood
water when a wes-
terly gale is banking
the Bay up at the
other end. The
canal was originally
spanned by seven
or eight serviceable
iron bridges ; Bent’s
surveyors have now
plotted out the
“swamp” on en-
tirely new lines, con-
sequently, to fit the
new streets, two of the
bridges have been dis-
mantled and shifted
100 yd., and another
one 30yd. Presum-
ably, when all is
finished, Bent will hold
a_ gorgeous land sale of
choice suburban allotments—ideal summer resi-
dences, with plenty of ozone, a view of the Bay,
and an aroma of the canal. Bent is understood
to be a smart man at a land deal, but it will take
him all he knows to get his money back over
Elwood.
* * * *
Some curious problems are sent to Parlia-
mentary Select Committees for settlement. A
N.S.W. Committee is just now unravelling a
matrimonial tangle which reads like a laborious
joke. Thomas Foster tried matrimony early in
life; it was a failure, and he divorced Mrs.
Foster No. 1. In 1899 he was married again to
Juliana Tarbottom, and they kept a public-house
together. Juliana, he swears, after a while con-
fessed to a somewhat complex past. She had
married first a man named Patterson. Afterwards
she got friendly with Tarbottom, and when
Patterson divorced her, married Tarbottom. He
died in 1886, and in 1898 she married Vickers.
She discovered afterwards that Vickers was
already married, so she left him, and forgetting
latterson, Tarbottom, and Vickers married
Foster. When Foster found out about his prede-
cessors, he declared his marriage “off,’" and left.
Iwo years after Foster married again, a girl
named Franklin. Then his previous mate prose-
cuted him for bigamy, and the Central Criminal
Court sentenced him to five years hard labor. Of
that sentence he served two years, and on release
found, he alleges, that his 'third wife was em-
ployed as housekeeper to someone else, and insti-
tuted divorce proceedings against her. He
is now anxious that the Select Committee should
tell him to whom he is really married, and
how much; and Parliament, which loves
to take on almost any kind of job save the one it
was elected for—that of plain, honest, business-
like legislation—is wading in gaily. Foster’s case
is comedy, not legislation, and should be referred
to a committee consisting of Robert Brough
Harry Rickards Harry Leston, Harry Shine,’
1 rank Clark, Bert Bailey, George Reid, the
ctewn at Wirth’s circus, the trained pony, and the
man who runs the funny column in the evening
paper. 6
* * * #
A small infant, too young to have any
opinions of its own, has got the Victorian law in
a tangle down at Footscray. When Edward Pit-
man came home from work the other evening Mirs.
Hagon, a neighbor, presented him with a fine
baby which she said had been left with her by Pit-
man s brother to give to him. Pitman was a trifle
surprised but accepted the infant, and presently
sought the brother, only to learn that he and his
wire had faded away to parts unknown. So Pit-
man took the infant to the law, which said that
as its parents were alive they were the proper
persons to support it and Pitman should compel
them to do so ; further, the law humorously sug-
gested that if Pitman could not find his brother
he might pass the infant back to Mrs. Hagon.
Here the law went to sleep for a space,
but was roused by the passionate entrance of
Mrs. Hagon with the baby. She expressed
a determination to leave it at the foot of
the Bench and be done with it. Pitman,
she said had compelled her to receive the infant
back ; but it wasn’t hers and she declined all
responsibility. The law struggled for its breath
for a moment, then threatened to gaol the lady on
a charge of abandoning an infant unless she
removed the derelict forthwith. But Mrs. Ha°-on
defied the honorariums to commit her, and as those
incompetent persons were in danger of being left
with a baby on their hands, they began to speak
smooth things, and, after much argument, per-
suaded Mrs. Hagon to take the cause of the
trouble away and endeavor to get Miss Sutherland
or some other guardian of grass-orphans to adopt
*AT a. In [ ant been able t 0 s P e ak, its opinion
ot the State that wants population, yet doesn’t
know what to do with population when it sees the
thing m front of it, might have been interesting.
* * -Jr #
“ W. Schurr” : It has come to this length
now. At a sociable gathering, the other even-
ing, we were discussing the strength of the
nations of the world. Britain was deemed by the
majority to be the most powerful, and one girl
settled all argument by asserting : “Besides: it
in the Bible that England shall conquer the
world. She is a regular church-goer and can
play the organ.
* * * »
In one little corner of Cairns (N.Q.) more
than nine nationalities reside—Malays, Cingalese
Chinese, Japanese, Arabs, Kanakas, Aborigines!
Mauritius natives, and various brands of whites.
A MATTER OF CALVES.
BALLET GIRL (as the Bishop passes): " Lor ', Cis
don’t they make your mouth water?”
“ O’Fipp ” : In a Melbourne circulating
library, the other day, a sanctimonious lady was
seeking something to read. On the librarian*re-
commending a book as “a good novel,” her
conscience became visibly alarmed. “Oh, I
never read novels ,” she said, “I don’t hold
with them.” All the same, she went away with
books by Guy Boothby and Miss Braddon. re-
ferring to the works of those authors as “nice
stories.” The same thing is noticeable in many
church papers. “ Stories ” by well-known novelists
are recommended; they are never called “novels.”
Melbourne Herald prints an interesting
memorial of that city’s first public library. In
’42 a young Irish barrister, Redmond Barry,
stocked a small back room of his house with a
good collection of standard works and bound
volumes of magazines, and freely admitted all
those early settlers who chose to call and read.
Behind a hoarding in Bourke-street, almost
opposite Menzies’ hotel and next to Goldsmith’s
wool store, this old house still stands —a small,
low, two-roomed brick building with a third back
room at the side of the yard. This back room
was the library. To-day a carrier uses it as a
store-room for chaff. One can throw a stone
thence to the Law Courts, where Barry himself
afterwards sat as Judge. In ’4l Dr. Farquhar
McCrae, father of that valued poet, George
Gordon McCrae, lived there. Farquhar McCrae
had been an Edinburgh student under Simpson,
the discoverer of chloroform, and Simpson Sent
McCrae the first bottle of the anaesthetic ever used
in Australia. After Barry, Dr. O’Mullane, an-
other well-known early-day physician, fixed his
brass plate on the door. In ’56 the present
library was opened, Barry himself helping to
examine the books, select them and stack them
on the shelves, so as to be ready for the opening
ceremony.
* * * *
The Australian naval station has lost its
call on the battleships in Chinese waters, but the
Commonwealth is expected to take some consola-
tion from the fact that locally stationed Vice-
Admiral Fanshawe has been promoted to be a full
Admiral. London holds that a title atones for
most things.
“ W.L.D.” : “Old Chum’s” reference (B.
13/7/’O5) to the once famous London Tavern
(Sydney) may be supplemented by following
announcement from the 60-year-old advertisement
in the Colonial Literary Journal, in which
the sale of the ancient hostelry was notified by
Stubbs, an auctioneer of the period :
The public fame of the London Tavern is known before
all others as a place of excellent entertainment and
accommodation for every individual. From the most
respectable settler down to the weary traveller or drover
of a wool-team—one and all resort to it as a place of
mutual convenience and appointment; whilst the ready-
money custom of police suitors and other attendants give
such life and activity to the bar and tap, that several
drawers are required to serve at the fountain, especially
when the rush takes place about noon.
The same Stubbs auctioned a house at the same-
time, and threw this eloquence around copiously :
Nothing is wanted for cleanliness or health’s sake, even
to the very large barrel drain, which carries off the
superfluous and waste water into the Tank Stream. There,
is a cheerful view from the upstairs rooms overlooking
the barrack-square ; and most desirable from the refreslT-
ing breezes which necessarily regulates the health of
children, and the amusement derived from the military
parades always going on there.
This house, by the way, commanded a good view
of many first-class floggings, but the gallows was
unfortunately hidden by intervening buildings.
The problem of dealing with the chronic
unemployed—the shiftless, lazy men who will work
only if they can’t get out of it—will arise even
when High Protection and equitable land and
labor laws make Australia genuinely prosperous.
A cruelly effective suggestion has been made by
a Sydney clergyman for dealing with that section.
He would have “labor homes” for the chronic
unemployed, and grade the inmates into three
classes. Class 111., of the incorrigibly lazy, would
get plain skilly for food. Class 11., of the not-
so-lazy, would have “hard tack.” Class 1., the
regenerated, who showed industry and a desire to
learn something to lift them into the ranks of the
employable, would have steak and onions and
apple dumplings. And at dinner-time care would
be taken that the aromatic odor of Class I.’s
dinner would waft into the premises where the
Weary Willies of Class 111. sat over their skilly,
and breathe a fragrance on Class 11. as it sorrow-
fully dynamited its ship’s biscuit.
* * * *
According to the sworn testimony of
several Victorian officers of police, the returned
Cohentingenters who got into the force on the
strength of their distinguished services as Empire-
builders turned out to be mostly “mongrels who
ran away without paying their debts.” Heavens,
what language !
THE RAGE FOR OPERATION.
S HE: “ You don’t look half so nice since you had
your whiskers amputated."
It is not a fact that only the High Court
thinks that N.S.W. State Full Court’s law is bad.
Before the establishment of that body, the Privy
Council in three years upset 12 out of a total of 16
decisions of the N.S.W. Full Court. It seemed to
think that whatever the Full Court was full of, it
wasn’t law.
AN INTERNASHIONAL ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the week there has been a somewhat heated
argument between Mr. R. L. Nash, financial editor of the
Sydney Telegraph, and N.S. W. Lands Minister Ashton,
on the comparative population, wealth and resources of
Canada and Australia, Nash championing Canada, and
Ashton doing his best to defend his native land.
There’s no one knows what the country grows
Excepting R. L. Nash !
Their argument most clearly shows
That Ashton’s much too rash !
Though Canada had two hundred years
The start of us, it still appears
That we deserve the sneers and jeers
Of Mr. R. L. Nash !
We are a very lazy lot,
Our credit’s gone to smash,
And any asset we have got
Is simply worthless trash !
We could not work if we should wish,
Not even a prospecting dish,
So let us all cry “ Stinking Fish ! ”
And satisfy R. Nash !
He talks of Socialism and
Declining birth-rates ! Dash
My buttons if on sea or land
There’s aught that’s strange to Nash !
When Ashton speaks for New South Wales
This genius poor James impales,
Pooh-poohs his facts as fairy-tales
That with his own views clash !
No one can read statistics now
Excepting R. L. Nash.
All other folks, it seems, somehow,
Would only make a hash !
If Nash should talk about the Ark
Let no one dare to make remark !
The great man speaks ! Let no dog bark !
Especially at Nash !
Let us admit that we are fools,
Dull-witted, void of cash,
We’re only fit for infant schools !
Let’s bashfully abash !
Let us like brothers all agree
That our fair land is up a tree,
Let Stinking Fish our watchword be
(Let’s give the Fish to Nash).
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
MARY ANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By to-day’s mail I received a letter giving' me
to understand that it is all over between us.
Henceforward, we are to meet as strangers ; and,
in the future, she will thank me to refer to her
simply as “ Miss Smith.”
Ah, my heart knows all the worry
Of a lately-jilted man,
And I’m sorry, sorry, sorrt
That we parted, Mary Ann !
I have faced a thousand dangers,
Laughed at troubles great and small—
Yea, and now “to meet as strangers ”
Is the hardest fate of all 1
Ah, your letter brings to me things
That have filled me with delight—
How you’d bring the greasy tea-things
To the kitchen every night ;
How I’d “ wipe up ” at my leisure,
Cup and saucers by your side—
But now to me that pleasure
Is for evermore denied !
So farewell! My dear Miss Smith, you
Will be someone else’s dear,
And some other chap is with you,
I suppose, while I am here.
Ah, I’m almost broken-hearted
Since our latest feud began ;
Yes, I’m sorry that we parted—
For I loved you, Mary Ann !
N.S.W.
GILROONET.


a©
%
u
f
poV
Ve
t*» c
ts
a*"
c°
*,.
e st '
FALIERES’ PHOSPHATIDE
HAS PRECEDENCE OVER ALL OTHER
FOODS
FOR INFANTS
& INVALIDS.
All Chemists and Grocers, “a®
gtoclw
Dress
aHIELDS
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
Luxury. The higher and more refined ideals associated with Dress
demand DRESS SHIELDS as a necessity. If you want DRESS
SHIELDS -that are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for—
KLEINERT’S
Dress fftßßie
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers
™m„™THE varnished board”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 1, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
A Maoriland correspondent, with some show of
indignation, asks what are the rules and regula-
tions in regard to being presented at Court,
“ seeing that at a recent presentation two ladies,
one of whom has been a milliner and the other a
shorthand-clerk, were presented.” Well, as re-
gards Australia, I believe the rule is that if you
lead a sober and honest life you will not be pre-
sented at Court. But if you are in the habit of not
going home until morning, and keeping the festive
pub lamps awake until a.m., you may any morning
find yourself before a magistrate. As regards the
Court of St. James’, to be “presented” you are
supposed to be of gentle birth and of good charac-
ter, and your sponsor has to take the risk of guar-
anteeing you. Any woman who has been presented
can stand sponsor for anyone else ; if she sponses
anyone who is afterwards shown to be objection-'
able the spoused will, and the sponsor may, have
her presentation cancelled.
Fortunately, in this democratic day few people
attach any importance to a presentation at. Court.
But for such as do it is a good sign that the
broken-glass-bottle defences that used to bar
the way to the presentation of democracy at
the British Court have been carted away to the
Royal ash-boxes ; and that the last large batch of
Australasians who were “presented ” included
several women who had “worked for their liv-
ing.” Now they are in Court dresses in the pictorial
ladies’ papers. More power to them. Most of
them are “good form,” and not one is unpresent-
able in appearance.
Acting (Sydney) vice-regals, the Darleys, leave
for Melbourne to-day to stay with the Northcotes.
The Darleys are a most worthy and decorous
family, but they are not chroniclesome. They
apparel themselves sombrely, and don’t leave any
epigrams, or signatures, or memoranda, so to
speak, strewn about in public.
By last mail arrived the good news of Lady
Rawson’s improvement in health. It is possible
that the Rawsons may be back before Christmas.
Miss Ettie Hordern, who married Mr. George
Gaden last week, was a “brown ” bride. She was
married in her travelling dress, cigar-brown in
tone, and a brown hat. She looked like that
pastel picture of H. C. Christy’s, in which a
pretty, proud-looking girl, all in brown; seated on
a spar on the seashore, listens to the music of a
shell which a gallant young varlet holds to her
ear. The crowd not only crammed the church—
Rev. Carr Smith had to remind those who stood
up on the seats that they were in “a house
of God ’’—but overflowed • right across the
footpath into King-street. With nary a
glimpse of the bride was the latter crowd
rewarded. She came and left .by some
back door or side ventilator, There seemed to
be an idea abroad that the objecting father would,
at the last moment, swoop along in a 100 h.p.
motor car and, aided by the full strength of the
Prince Alfred Yacht Club, forcibly bear away his
lamb from under the wedding-bell of. ardin lilies
itself. No such romantic excitement occurred.
The objector was, perhaps, at that hour violently
altering his will.
Most distinctive and artistic gown worn at
Miss Hordern’s wedding was on Mrs. J. T.
Brown (one of the Gaden family). It was of
white cloth, with preface of black velvet and
steel ornaments.
Miss Pickersgill, the lady who moves within the
orbit of the Heermanns, is a remarkable person-
ality as well as a collebtor of precious stones. She.
will take away with her a tray-load of opals and
pearls—all Australian found and unset. She has
read many books, been in nearly every land, and
is never tired, or bored, or sick. At present this
enviably-constituted lady is staying on a Geelong
station.
A Maorilander in London : “It is so cold and
rainy and dark, but I am not allowed to carry a
muff or wear furs. You see it is June and my
shocked relatives assure me that ‘we don’t wear
winter trappings in midsummer ’ / What strange
people are you colonials ! ” Chronicler goes on to
say : “I went to church parade in Hyde Park last
Sunday and saw hundreds of lovely women and'
‘brave’ men—many of the latter as carefully
‘ got up ’ as the women, and with just as much aid
from art, if pink and white complexions, carefully
tended eyebrows and lashes, and waxed
moustaches, were any sign. I’ll swear half of
them wear corsets, and take as long to dress as any
Society woman. One monocle-eyed dandy sat on
a chair in the Row dangling an elegant foot in a
black silk sock and dainty shoe, and around his
ankle was a gold chain bangle.”
Same writer: “I and King Alphonso arrived
m London on the same day, and both have had a
giddy time. At Aldershot I had a seat in the
House of Lords enclosure. But the review did
not interest me as much as did the wives of the
Japanese and Chinese Ministers. Marchioness
Ito looked like a pretty Japanese doll dressed in
Parisian fashion. The Chinese madam wore her
national dress of gorgeous silk and rainbow colors
and embroideries, and was a fat, jolly, smiling
personage. Her husband looked like an elderly
billy-goat. He wore a black velvet coat and silk
bath wrapper, and his long, skinny pigtail hung
down from under a black skull cap. Queen
Alexandra wore her favorite heliotrope and
mauve, with bonnet and boa to match, and smiled
and bowed and took snapshots of the troops.”
Other day I was complimenting an acquaint-
ance on her looking so well and fresh. Sydney
women, on the whole, are looking awful just now,
probably by reason of the prolonged rainless win-
ter. Humans want rain equally with that other
flesh which is grass. Well, the complimented one,
who looks five-and-twenty, replied : “ I’m letting
my hair go back to its original color—dark-
brown.” “But fair hair makes for youth-
ful effect,” I ventured. “No,” she answered,
“not when one is getting to be a bit of
a bird.” I didn't mean to laugh, but as the
small child said “My face slipped.” To
acknowledge that you are a “ bird ” is, I suppose,
an admission that you are into the thirties. But
there is truth in w.hat she said. Fair hair—of the
fairness that is acquired or retained by bleaching
—does give its wearer a hard artificial expression.
Always at our big race meetings I see numbers of
women of confessedly over 45, or over 55, for that
matter, with aggressively golden hair. They
make me think of what Mrs. Tanqueray might
have become if she hadn’t shortened her life by
suicide. As an English wit said : “The woman
who dyes her hair gold owes it to hey family to
advertise that she is not what she appears to be.”
A bride of August-end will be Miss Mildred
Coffee, daughter of Mr. Frank Coffee, of “Iro-
quois,” Chatswood. She marries Dr. Daniel Kelly,
of North Sydney.
After an absence of two years, Miss Bertha
F aning has returned to Sydney. The time of her
absence was spent in hard work among the mas-
ters of voice training. Men and women with Big
Names dug and harrowed and cultivated her for
Oratorio and concert work, and she has comeback
with sheaves of laudatory notices from the British
press.
Mrs. Brown Potter’s financial fall dragged down
Alfred Fossick, her solicitor, who misappropriated
trust funds to lend to the actress, and has
been sentenced to five years penal servitude.
The American press is ugly and venomous towards
Cora, and digs up all her past history to point a
moral on the folly of a woman who gives up
domestic life in the U.S.A., with ice, and pie, and
buckwheat cakes, and a lynching just round the
corner, and an elevator, and a wheat corner, and
other appliances, for the London stage and the
society of an effete aristocracy. It is remarked
incidentally that Mrs. Langtry is, like Mrs.
Potter, not too flourishing just now.
. Sydney—or a section of it—js j ust now engaged
m admiring a handsome girl who captivated the
Duke of Abruzzi when he was in Australia, and
who has just returned from a European tour
which gave her many opportunities of seeing that
happy Latin.
Recent Sydney artists’ ball realised £275 for the
Children's Hospital.
Travelled Australians have told me that one of
their choicest memories (of a kind) is of a wonder-
ful altar-piece of cloisonne work in St. Mark’s,
Venice. Venetians have had it since 1105, when
they stole pr begged or bought it from Constanti-
nople. These remarks ramble up to the informa-
tion that Stewart Dawson and Co., Sydney, have
got some cloisonne pieces—vases, bowls and’ urns,
backgrounded in color with the deep unrivalled
blue of the lotus. Also a set of tiny panels, show-
ing the jewel-like enamel work in course of fashion-
ing-
The “Willie” Redmonds left by the Ventura
amid an odor of “ crathur ” and sanctity. By the
number of priests gathered at the gangway you’d
think the Sacred College had come down for a
swim. Mr. Andrew Mack’s huge shamrock floral
construction was a feature of the farewell presen-
tations.
Mrs. Fallon, wife of Sergeant Fallon, who was
shot at Rand wick on Saturday, was in town when
the evening newspaper boys began to shout news
of a fatal accident at the ranges. The poor
woman bought a paper, and fell to the ground on
learning that the victim was her husband.
What the Scripture calls a voice crying in the
wilderness was Dr. Arthur’s lecture of Monday
night on immigration and the need for population.
Personally speaking, I have now got the yellow
scare so badly through Dr. Arthur’s forcible state-
ments of the imminence and certainty of the peril
of Japanese expansion into this continent that
I’m going to re-trim my one hat with the Aus-
tralian flag before next issue. The doctor
read extracts of the conversation of high
Japanese officials with an Australian lately
bade from Tokio, to the effect that the Japs
intend to pay us a visit—a permanent visit. The
Japanese Minister for Finance said his people
considered our land as their natural expansion
ground. The speaker’s arguments for white immi-
gration as a preventive of the yellow are, of course,
another matter. Seems to me that we haven’t
any land to give immigrants. Mr. Willis has got
all that’s worth cultivating, except what the A. A.
Go. and a few other such people have annexed to
live on in their old age. And I suppose, if the
immigrant comes here and can’t get land, he will
want a job in a factory to go on with, and there is
so little of that here that I am not sure that I know
what a factory is like. Still, it was a stirring
address. Dr. Nash argued trenchantly, and Mrs.
Hugh Dixson and Mrs. Robert Farrell were visibly
affected by fear that the expansion might start
that very night.
Miss Alexia Bassian left by the Omrah for
London on Saturday. On the advice of Dr.
Brady she decided to terminate her engagement
with Mr. Williamson. The pretty little Armenian
hopes to return some day with a quite-cured
throat and do herself justice under our gum-
trees.
Over £9OO was handed in to Mrs. Allen Taylor
last week by the suburban auxiliaries of the Chil-
dren’s Hospital.
Pianist Laurence Phillip has a concert in
preparation for next month, when he will intro-
duce to the public a new soprano with voice
limited in volume, but dainty and sweet.
Phillip himself is a -pianist who should be heard
more often in public. He has a “temperament”
with his skill, and lots of judges class him as only
second to Paderewski among piano stars who have
coruscated here.
More than one member of the Andrew Mack
Co. has a rather tony hobby. Andrew is a
bibliophile, and his collection is noted. Lately
he got for a few shillings from a suburban second-
hand bookshop a volume of poems by “Thomas
Little ” —the name under which Tom Moore first
wrote. When he showed his “find ”to Winfield
Blake, another collector, the latter “got hot
about the collar.” He has for years been looking
through New York’s mouldy bookstalls for the
like volume. Brandt —one of the A.M. Co. —
goes in for art, and is going to do some brush
work with a local artist. He is hugging Daplyn’s
book, “Landscape Painting in Australia,” to his
heart under the impression that it is a Great
Work.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
“A tragic interruption to the Hawthorn Mayoral
hop was the abrupt death of Mr. Henry Scott, a
Flinders Lane merchant. The deceased had just
gone flying through the Lancers with great dash,
and was in confab with some friends, when he fell
on the floor in a fit of apoplexy. A few minutes
afterwards, all was over, and the dance was re-
sumed by a gay, inconsequent mob. A few
years ago, another well-known city n.an, Mr.
J. F. M‘Carron, the dandy stationer, dropped
dead in the midst of a waltz at a St. Vincent’s
ball. That time the ball was brought at-once to a
close. Men of sixty should be warned against fast
ball-room whirls when the heart is wobbly.
‘ 1 The craze for voice-culture spreads through the
Tooraketty quarters. Allan’s and Glen’s see the
stream of flutterers, with folios jauntily swinging,
all day long. Up in any of the passages where
top C.’s roar and the finished crescendos
soar in maddening confusion hour after hour, the
rustle of silk underskirts strikes a novel key. Once
an army of girls, being trained for choirs and plat-
forms, moused along awkwardly, and waited in
cob-webbed corners, and apologised generally for
being on the earth. All that is changed. Society
takes on the song habit, and dresses in style for
its lesson, and switches its silk-lined tail in the eye
of the few old-fashioned pupils who remain.
“ One of the prettiest suburban charmers of the
season has disappointed all the hopes of friends
and family by engaging herself to a pallid young
man who travels with samples. The solicitors
with fat practices, the doctors and such, who
mothed round her luminous presence, are all
shocked, and the girl’s own dad is horrified. But
the pair label themselves twin souls, and declare
they are content to live on love and a lick of the
jam-spoon till the sample. business thrives. But
they will find with experience that twin souls need
just as much sordid nutriment as an ordinary pair
of digestions.
“Mrs. York Syme, perhaps because of her
relationship toG. H. Reid, trusts much to political
flapdoodle to pull a christening, a charity meeting,
or any kind of social affair through successfully.
Her distinguished relative turns politics into a
show ; she strives to turn every show into politics.
Even the other day, in making thanksgiving over
a new engagement in her circle, she rang up the
curtain on M.H.R. Edwards, who said a few
words. He ought to have taken his cue and sym-
pathised with the young couple, insomuch as,
with Reid out of office, there was no certainty
that the marriage tie would survive long enough
for them to enter into it. But he lacked the
humor of that, and merely made ‘ the few remarks ’
that the politician always has at hand to welcome
a new bridge or to preside at a school of arts
meeting.
“The russet-haired daughters of Mrs. K. Brod-
ribb gave a card gambol (we spell it that way) at
Cainely House, East Melbourne, the other day,
when Toorak chicks dealt for bridge and totted
up points in a big exciting match. The trophy
went to Miss Lesly Madden, whose bridge play
has a European finish. For struggling up close to
the top score, Miss Dorothy Staugliton was
soothed with a silver something.
“ Consul Bray returns to look after Stars and
Stripes interests this week, after a holiday in the
land of the sky-scraper and in John Bull’s
country.
“ ‘ Inky ’ is the expressive epithet employed for
the Society delinquent who wears vine leaves in
her hair pretty regularly. One dasher intimates
to her chums through the ’phone now and then,
‘ The party is off; mother’s inky again.’ The
friends admire her candor, and sympathise. She
drinks tea in great quantity herself, and says,
‘ Let me die of tannin ; it’s far more decent.’
“The Nimrods are secretly pledged to make
this year’s dance absolutely the crack show of the
season. I have seen a most sumptuous architec-
tural design for the rooms, in which the white
walls are treated with trellis and other schemes in
scarlet and green. And any presentable person of
unblemished character with 12s. 6d. to spare may
join in the revel.
“A novelty crept into an Adelaide Kitchen
Tea last week. The bride not only profited by a
presentation of pots and pans, but had a rhyme
thrown in as a sort of grace before matrimony.
The girl who promoted the Tea insisted that each
utensil should bear on the face of it an original
congratulatory poem! For weeks the Holy City
was in the throes of metre, till at last every pot
had its rhapsody. Probably the donor of the egg-
whisk got home painfully with a play On the
‘ new yoke.’ This has been forwarded as a likely
poem by a local manufacturer of bereavement and
baptism lays:—
Oh, envied Liz, I give with joy
A brand new pepper-can,
And pray when rust doth this destroy,
You still may have your man.
A variety of others are in stock.
“The flocking of sheep-faced clerics to the
‘Jericho’ show isn’t understandable of the subur-
ban goodies, who shudder at two or three naked
statements of fact in the dialogue. ‘I declare,’
said a Hawthorn matron after seeing ‘Jericho,’
‘ I blushed at several brazen utterances and only
my husband with me, my dear. Yet all round
were clergymen, thoroughly absorbed, and not in
the least upset! ’
“ The latest visitor to hang up his hat and stick-
at the Governor-General’s is Mr. Edward Wood,
a name conveying nothing till you tag on, ‘ eldest
son of Viscount Halifax.’ Then the Wood becomes
sanctified. Private Sec. Share has been showing
him round a bit. He looks a gay sea-dog with a
brine-swept countenance.
“ The evening party billed for August 9 by the
Northcotes comes just in time to flaunt mid-season
chiffons. By July, the May raiment begins to
fray at the ends, and a fashionable is only urged
to replenish by pasteboards of great consequence.
So far, it hasn’t been a good season for clothes.
Bridge uses up all the spare time of Society, and
doesn’t demand any spread of specially-fine
plumage. The play is the thing—and finger-nails,
rose-tinted by the manicurists’ art. The North-
cote party is to be one of talk and strum. That
argues elderly guestship, musty officialdom and
mildewed survivals.
“ The merchant Butlers gave a legion of kids
an opportunity to take another turn out of the
fancy rigs first flourished at the mayoral hop, the
other night. The Grange, Brighton, has a ram-
bling garden and rustic niches, but the blase
juveniles despised outdoor effects. Dancing and
supping filled up the time and little Mary to
better effect. A siren of seven can’t be torn from
her jam tart by any gay Adonis of nine for a
moonlight spoon.
“The two chirpy daughters of Austrian Consul
Pinschof followed in the Panther’s wake to Ade-
laide, and there fell to with vim on a jolly sea dog
programme of festivities.
“A son of Millionaire D’Arcy whirligigged
round this quarter for a brief festive while. He
left again by the China last Tuesday and a chirpy
little clique is the sorrier for his going.
“A remarkable young foreigner flitted back to
his own distant eyrie last week without scattering
any P.P.C. cards around, or saying farewell to the
swarm of people he .had so lavishly enter-
tained. And now they are all leaning their bump
of wonder on the cool, refreshing mantelpiece.
Such a naive young person as it was, looking any-
thing between unshaven 17 and knowing 30. Fair
dames made a pet of him after being assured that
he wasn’t a delusion and a snare. He assured
them, and lived like a prince. Now they ponder.
No one knows why he left so suddenly, nor
whither he lias gone. A prince incog, (a romantic
Miss dubbed him once) does not scatter largesse
on the undeserving, and then sail away without
waiting for thanks. Princes incog., or in anything
else, are not built that way.
“ Miss Gair, the most willowy footlighter with
the Flemming-Broughs, is a Maorilander. Off the
boards she looks a sweet miss wearing smart
clothes and flourishing a complexion of cream and
briar roses. There is a distribution of ’roo-landers
in the co. Quite a Federal rally ! A brisk Sydney
widow (Miss Millard), a Miss Proctor from Ade-
laide, a Miss Fisher of this city, and sundry novices
from anywhere. A fashionable johnnie (nephew
of a leading oculist) is walking on for the fun of
the thing, don’t you know, and a young brother of
sculptor Mackennal for the same poor reason.
“ The rather bashful Sydneyite, Norman
M'Keown, has made the largest strides in the
Brough co. When the massive Flemming took ill
in the West and Brough stepped into his
shoes, young M’Keown passed into posses-
sion of the Brough part, and scored some.
His old baccy-stained gardener subsequently
in ‘ Beauty and the Barge, ’ was a
bit of good character-acting. In the present
Jericho piece, the same tall, soft-voiced youth
looks in only once to report trouble (the old
story), and passes out of sight, though the trail of
the trouble runs to within short range of the final
curtain. Melb. girls would like to have seen
more of the beauteous Harborville youth who
went astray and only showed up for a brief
minute to say so in attractive tones.
“ Nance O’Neil’s Trilby has rather a heavy foot,
and the shape is chalked on the studio wall in all
its heaviness. But the rest of her is most satis-,
factory—first in the grey and scarlet uniform, and
later in glamorous apparel, suggesting dancing
sunbeams at high noon on a snowy white bank of
cloud. Nance wears perfectly flat shoes to bring
her height down to the level of the Laird and
Taffy, who add to their stature by tall heel-pieces
and cork elevators.
“ A man is doing a rattling good business here
as a designer of feminine trappings. She-designers
in the neighborhood wax wroth and ask plaintively
and hopelessly, ‘ls it fair V If it isn’t, let the
sex retaliate by opening up departments for
tailoring, and advertise as the most artistic
breeches-makers under the Federal banner.
Since smart women consent to be pinned into
close-fitting clothes by male cutters, surely gallant
johnnies would patronise the lady tailor.
“ A capricious lady who wrenched apart the
bonds of her own accord now grows meditative over
the awkwardness of her position. She-friends
fall away from her —’tis a way they have—and the
surviving he-pals only increase the difficulties of
her sundered state. Government House lists
drop her name out, and she has far the worst of
the bargain. A wise wife puts up with a lot
before she commits this form of social suicide.”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Only One Way To Be Beautiful— use
VALAZE! Absolutely no preparation ever
in vented will help you (like Y A LAZE. Thousand s
of ladies speak m glowing: terras of its wonder-
ful beauty-giving properties and its power to
restore the complexion to its original beauty.
Try one jar to-day—price 3s. 6d. and 6s. ; posted
6d. extra. \ VALAZE Soap 2s. (lasts six months);
VALAZE Herbs (Aromatic) 3s. 6d. packet:
VALAZE Skin Tonic, most cooling and refresh-
ing 3s. 6d. bottle ; VALAZE Face Powders 2s.
box (3 tints) to dust on the face. Ask your chemist
or write direct. Mdlle. Rubinstein, 243 Collins-
street, Melbourne. Mention this paper and
receive “ Guide to Beauty ” free.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM. —A pure vegetable
extract. The peculiar process followed in the
manufacture of this important cough mixture
ensures the extraction of all the Balsamic and
active medicinal principles of the plants, roots,
and herbs employed. Its remarkable curative
properties have induced many eminent medical
men to order it with approbation. It may be
safely taken in any stage of chest affections, and,
having a pleasant taste, is readily administered to
children. A dose at bed-time will ensure repose.
For families in the country, distant from a phy-
sician, it is invaluable, as, by its early use, many a
severe chest attack may be warded off. Children
are peculiarly susceptible to its gentle influence.
Get Arnold’s Balsam. All the best chemists and
stores throughout the States sell Arnold’s Balsam.
It has the largest sale of any cough mixture.*
THE QUEEN’S FACE FOOD.
Old ladies made young. Young ladies made
beautiful. No more wrinkles, pimples, or black-
heads, but a beautiful, clear, peachlike complexion,
for those who use the Queen’s Face Food.
Manufactured by Dr. Noel, the Queen’s own
beautifier. Thousands have derived the greatest
benefit from it, and speak highly of it.
at Mr. Broth wood’sand all leading chemist’s, and at
Madame Olga’s beautifying Boudoirs, Gov. Savings
Bank Chambers, Moore St., Sydney, 3s. 6d., 6s.*


ONE THING WELL SOI
Secret of a Great Success.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
DR. WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS do one
thing only—but they do it well. They
actually make new blood—just that, and
no more. They won’t work miracles with
a dose or two. They don’t act on the bowels.
They don’t tear through the system. They don’t
tinker with mere symptoms. They just strike at
the one great root of your disease —bad blood. If
bad blood isn’t at the root of your disease,
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills won’t cure you. But
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually have cured the
worst cases of anaemia, rheumatism, sciatica,
neuralgia, headaches, backaches, kidney disease,
liver trouble, indigestion, disordered heart, weak
lungs and general wasting away. All these are
caused by bad blood—and Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills actually make good blood. That’s why they
cured them.
Ignorant people laugh at the idea that one little
medicine can cure all these different diseases. In
their ignorance, they forget that all these diseases
are caused bv one little trouble —bad blood. The
foolish people are really those who take a different
medicine for every different symptom without
thinking of the one cause at the root of them all
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills strike at that one root—
bad blood. That one fact is the whole;secret of
their success. And here is just one sample of that
success.
“ One day at work, six years ago. I had my first
taste of Sciatica.” said Mr. George Simpson, St.
John Street, Newtown, Sydney. “ I was stooping
down, ladling out some hot metal, when a sharp,
burning pain shot like a flash through my back
and hip. ft gripped me so tightly Plat I couldn't
straighten up to save my life. I wag helped home,
and for nine months I was in constant torture
from the hot, needle-like pains. You can’t
imagine how I suffered every time I moved in bed.
I couldn’t help moaning, and I felt that I would
go mad if the pain kept up much longer. At last
the doctor had to inject morphia into my side and
back—but I suffered ten times more afterwards.
At my best, I could just hobble about with a
crutch. I made sure I was a cripple for life.
“ The doctor could not make my case out. My
Sciatica kept getting worse and worse,” Mr.
Simpson went on. “ Strange to say, my daughter
was suffering pretty badly with Rheumatism at
this time, and the only relief she could get was
from Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. By degrees they
drove all the aching acid from her system and
cured her Rheumatism. She made me give them
a trial. I took them just to please her. Soon I
noticed that the pain was not nearly so bad. I felt-
better in fifty ways. T could hardly believe that
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills were actually doing what
doctors and liniments had failed to do. But after
the third box there was no more room for doubt.
After five boxes I was aide to walk about as well
as ever, without a pain or an ache. I threw my
crutch aside, and have had grand health ever
since. Even in the worst winter weather I never
have so much as a twinge of Sciatica now. There-
are no two ways about it—nothing can cure
Rheumatism and Sciatica like Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People.”
Remember, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale-
People actually make new blood—-nothing more.
No other medicine strikes at the root of disease as
they do. They have cured the worst cases of
Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, and even Consump-
tion. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are also good in a
special way for tb°.secret blood troubles that ruin
the regular health of growing girls and women.
If you are not sure whether Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills are suited to your own case, write for free
medical advice to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Sydney. From the same address you can order
the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills at 2s. 9d. a
box, or six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.
* WILLIAMS 9
INK
ILLS
FOR
ALE
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Quaint sign over a shop in Richmond
(Yic.): —“Buttan Singh, Greengrocer, Tailor, and
Champion Wrestler.”
Mr. Thomas Bent affirms vociferously that
“ Victorians are the finest people on God’s earth ” ;
and, after walking twice round him, who can
doubt it ?
It was ex-Treasurer “ Jim ” Gardiner who
brought off the big £1,500,000 deal between the
Westralian Government and the National Bank,
on behalf of the Midland Railway Co.
High Court Justice O’Connor takes his
fifty-fourth birthday on August 4. The Senate
campaign was his only actual contest for a Parlia-
mentary seat. Yet he was at one time a possible
N.S.W. State Premier.
King’s Counsel J. E. Salomons, of N.S. W.,
has again gone to England. At the opening of the
High Court at Darlinghurst, a couple of years ago.
the clever little Hebrew said that the gate of
another world was opening on its hinges to receive
him. The door, however, must have banged again.
John Adams, dead at Fremantle (W.A.),
aged 76, was born on the first immigrant ship
which reached the Swan River settlement in 1829
—Foundation year. He claimed to have resided in
the State longer than any other person. Which
shows what unpromising material a species of
fame can be built out of.
Talking about changes of Ministries.
O’Shanassy, going out of office for the last
time, said to the orderly, “You need not
bother about my papers. I’ll be back in a fort-
night.” He never went back. Duffy, his bitterest
enemy, relates this in his autobiography. Big
John lived to see Duffy Speaker and Premier.
Dick Seddon is not the first king of Maori-
land. In ’34, Baron Thierry proclaimed himself
king of that country. His “standing army”
consisted of 90 men, and he set about nominating
ambassadors to foreign countries, when Louis
Philippe, the monarch with the cotton umbrella,
threw difficulties in the way, and gave Britain
time to annex the group.
The new Governor of Queensland, Freder-
ick John Napier Thesiger, Baron Chelmsford of
Chelmsford, Essex, is a grandson of a plodding
lawyer who became Attorney-General under
Robert Peel in 1844 and under Earl Derby in
1852. In 1858 Derby made him Chancellor. The
new Governor’s father was in the army, and as
Major-General Thesiger commanded in S’Africa
for a time, and was not a conspicuous success.
STILL IN THE
CLOUDS.
The permanent seat of
the Federal Government.
—(Drawn at the sugges-
tion of Joey Carruthers.)
A question by
Crouch in the House of
Reps., the other day,
brought out the fact that
John Plummer, whose
letters in the Sydney
dailies barracking for
Carruthers’ alleged Re-
form crowd were thick
as flies, was given by G.
H. Reid £4OO a year
from the Australian
Treasury for writing articles in the European and
American press, defending the “Commonwealth,
its legislation, &c.” Of course, as soon as Reid
got to the Treasury there was bound to be some-
thing of that sort.
The Farnell Ministry, in which Justice
Cohen, of N.S.W., was Treasurer, numbered
nine members, and although the Judge is com-
paratively young, he, J. F. Burns and W. J.
Foster are the only survivors. Burns looks after
company promoting, Foster after his own health,
and nis Honor after law and order.
Colonel Lyster, who has been shaking up
the defence system of Australia, first visited these
parts as an associate of General Feilding, who
wanted land for a railway to the Gulf of Carpen-
taria. The scheme collapsed with some sudden-
ness and much loss, and Mr. Lyster went back to
the British army, returning later to Queensland as
a brigade-major.
G. H. Reid is said to be actively intrigu-
ing for the post of Commonwealth High Commis-
sioner, and his friends are artfully pushing his
cause along with declarations that he wouldn’t
take the post at any price. To send Reid to
London as High Commissioner would be
scandalous ; he beats even Tozer as a slanderer of
the Commonwealth.
A. A. Kirkpatrick, of South Australia, has
a new -experience—he is the first Australian
Laborite to be a Minister in a Legislative Council.
Even when Daglish formed his Labor Ministry in
Westralia, he had to go outside his own party for
a Council representative. Kirkpatrick is an old
and seasoned politician, a printer by trade, and
almost portly enough to be mistaken for a bank
director.
Mrs. O’Doherty, widow cf deceased Dr.
Kevin Izod O’Doherty, saved outlaw John Dillon,
father of Homeßuler John Dillon, from the minions
of British law. Dillon hid in her uncle’s house,
with very little prospect of escape, but “Eva”
borrowed a suit of clothes from a priest about
Dillon's size, and walked with the disguised
outlaw through the public streets, and got him
safely away on the track to America. This was
at a time, too, when the British law took such
things seriously, and when a woman’s neck wasn’t
much safer than a man’s.
Black-labor Cole, of the Melb. Book Ar-
cade, lately built a 200-verse poem in praise of
books. It took him about three weeks to construct
■ the effusion, and, halving printed it in a neat little
booklet, he sent copies to the papers for review.
It was a symmetrically-planned “poem, contain-
ing verses after this fashion :
Books teach the science of chemistry,
With all its combinations
Of gases, liquids, solids and
Its useful preparations.
The Age diplomatically praised the thing with
faint damns, but the Argus utterly ignored it asa
literary production, and only mentioned that it
had come to hand.
Sydney barrister “Laurie” Armstrong
nearly had the joy once of sending away a com-
pany of cavalry equipped with a gorgeous motto.
Towards the close of the Boer war some Sydney
bloods decided to equip a cavalry company to
“help the Empire.” They asked Armstrong “to
give them a good motto, something in Latin.”
He opined that they wanted a motto which
wouldn’t be too cocky. They agreed. “Well
how about this —it means that you don’t hope to
get there all at once, but that you mean to keep
pegging away —non vi sed saepe cad end a.” That
was just the thing, they chortled, and bore the
motto away proudly. Then the war stopped sud-
denly and killed the mammoth joke of a cavalry
regiment going to battle with, as its cherished
principle, a bit of dead language meaning that
it hoped to succeed, “not by our strength but’
by frequently falling off.”
The correspondence between F. B. Suttor,
“C.T.8.” and others about long-dead Captain
Macarthur approaches the jocose in the reverential
allusions made to the captain’s “honor.” “I
would not,” says “C.T.8.” in Saturday's S.M.
Herald, “have taken notice of his” (F. B.
Suttor’s) “last letter but for a sentence in it that
might be read by some aS reflecting on Macarthur’s
honor.” The early N.S. W. records are a standing
reflection on Macarthur’s honor. Balmain, in
addition to b£ing principal surgeon to Botany
Bay, was a civil magistrate, and he places it on
record that John Macarthur was “a base rascal
and an atrocious liar and villain.” He not alone
wrote this and more to like effect, but sent Com-
missary Palmer with the document to intimate
that he (Balmain) was ready to accept the captain’s
challenge to a duel. The truth about the valorous
John Macarthur is that he had not a single fine
scruple about how he made money, and was a
vicious foe of anyone who hindered him in making
it.
Died in Munich, Germany, recently, aged
80, Colonel Albrecht Feez, father of one of Bris-
bane’s leading members of the Bar, and a Rock-
hampton pioneer. ' When the Canoona (Rock-
hampton) rush was golden in ’5B, Feez char-
tered some schooners in Sydney, filled
.-■them with goods, and set out jfor
the north. He opened
business up there,
and stuck to it for
30 years to good
financial purpose.
For several years he
added politics to
his worries, repre-
senting the district
in which he moved.
Then in ’B5 he got out
to enjoy himself with
travel, visiting many
countries. Mrs. Feez,
who passed out several
years ago, was the daughter
of the late Justice Milford,
of N.S.W. The deceased was one of those who
rushed into Mount Morgan early, when things
were cheap, and he held on to his shares instead
of selling out and then plunging again after-
wards, as many did when the boodlers ran shares
to £l7, and people began to believe they would
never stop going up.
Thirty-five years ago Charles Gavan Duffy
lectured in Melbourne on “ Why is Ireland Poor
and Discontented?” In the. newspapers R. D.
Ireland, Q.C., replied that he was neither “poor
nor discontented.” Neither Ireland noi Duffy
had any cause to be then ; each was drawing £lOOO
per annum life pension for two years’ service as a
Minister. Duffy drew his regularly, and totted
up about £40,000. For years before his dea.h
Ireland’s pension was mortgaged to the Jews, and
he died absolutely a pauper.
An August birthday budget. Premier
Deakin, 49 on 3rd ; Justice O’Connor, of the High
Court, 54 on the 4th; “Rolf Boldrewood ” 79,
and I. A. Isaacs, of the new Federal Ministry, 50
on 6th; S. A. ex-Agent-General AllerdaleGrainger,
58 on 7th ; George Turner, 54, and Paris Nesbit,
K.C., 53, on Bth; ex-Governor-General Tennyson,
53, and Alfred Harmer, late Bishop of Adelaide,
48, on 11th ; cricketer R. A. Duff, 27 on 17th ;
Robert Kyffin Thomas, one of the proprietors of
Adelaide Register, 54 on 19th ; R. W. Foster,
of S.A., 49 on 20th ; John Forrest, 58 on 22nd ;
J. L. Purves, K.C., 62, and J„ C. Williamson, 60,
on 23rd; P. M. Glynn, M.H.R., 50, and E. H.
Coombe, M.P. (S.A.), 47, on 25th.
Died on the Orient, between Fremantle
and Port Adelaide, and buried at the later port
after a fruitless inquest, Frederick Brice
Bunny, son of the late Victorian Judge, and
brother of artist Ru-
pert. Death was due
to a fractured skull,
but no one seemed
to know how the mis-
hap came about. The
only witness to iden-
tity recognised the
body by a
sword-cut on
the face, re-
ceived years
ago in a stu-
dents’ duel
in Germany.
IN A HORRID TEMPER.
Mr. Reid has reiterated his determination to fight
Socialism to the bitter end.
VOICE FROM THE CORNER: “I shan’t be good!"
Mrs. J. S. Read, of Springhurst, and Mr.
F. G. Docker, of Bontherambo (Vic.), still living,
are said to have been the first white children to
cross the Murray into Victoria. They accom-
panied their father, Rev. Joseph Docker, in his
journey in search of pastoral land, in Jan., ’3B,
from Windsor (N.S.W.).
The latest “ billet” proposal is to send
ex-Treasurer George Turner to London “to dis-
cuss the State debts transfer problem with the
financiers of the old world.” If George Turner
wants a holiday he should have it; his past
services have earned it. But it would be
absurd to hang the trip on such a pretence
as that. There is no State debts problem
that the old world financiers can throw any light
upon. The only problem is the cantakerousness
of Carruthers and other State frights. To give
Turner a holiday would be fair enough ; to give it
to him on a pretext which would involve further
delay in dealing with the debts problem would be
scandal.
A Melbourne pressman’s appreciation of
Australia’s new Attorney-General:—
Look at him first as a schoolboy of 12, carrying away a
barrow-load of prizes from Beechworth Grammar School
in 1869. His father ran a little tailor’s shop in Beech-
worth ; a fine old man, who came from Mlawa in Poland,
saw the worst side of the Polish revolution, and sped to
Australia with a cargo of ultra-Liberal ideas, to which he
helped his boy. Young Isaacs was a paid school-teacher
at 13; became assistant teacher, and passed the then
highest teacher’s exam, before he was 16. Brodribb,
inspector of schools, marked his appreciation in book gifts.
Years after, when he retired from the service, Brodribb
studied law in Isaac Isaacs’ Melbourne office. Isaacs
matriculated at Beechworth, and straightway commenced
to prepare pupils for inatric. himself. He ran a night-
school in his spare time ; and at seventeen, with his
school salary and fees for private tuition, this pertinacious
young Hebrew made £3OO a year. But he wanted to get
to the Bar. G. B. Kerferd, then Attorney-General, found
a place for him in the Prothonotary’s office. He started
in on the lowest rung, at £45 for his probationary year.
He supplemented that by coaching ; at the same time he
studied furiously on his own account, went through his
first law-course in nine months ; took honors in second
and third years ; and in his fourth year took first-class
honors, a scholarship, an eighty-guinea prize, and the de-
gree of LL.M. Isaacs stuck to the Prothonotary’s office
until the accepted time, and toiled like Tubal Cain. He
acted as clerk in the Pull Court for a while, and started
practice on his own account in ISB2. The specimen Aus-
tralian was beginning to publish himself.
Law' proceedings arising out of the CresWick mining-
disaster gave him his first chance under his new wig. He
appeared with McDermott against men like Gaunt-,
Hodges, and Finlayson, and scored in the long run. That
case eventually landed him in the first flight. In 1892 he
was in Parliament, and in 1893 in the Patterson Ministry.
The atmosphere was clogged with the odor of wild-cat
banks and defunct land-schemes, and the older members
of the Ministry were pals with the land-jobbers and bank-
fakirs. Solicitor-General Isaacs insisted that rich and
poor should get the same brand of justice ; and when
Patterson saw that Ikey was determined to prosecute the
land-sharks, he asked him to resign. Isaac’s letter of re-
signation wound up with the scorching statement that
the Patterson Ministry was one which it was more lonor-
able to be out of than in ; therefore he had very great
pleasure in resigning not only his portfolio, but also his
seat in the House. Only that one characteristic incident
of Isaacs’ political life need be mentioned. What he has
done since is mostly too recent to need mentioning ; but
from the start to now he has been White Australian,
High Tariff, and good democrat, and what he believes in
he tigers for.
Died, last week, at Elizabeth Bay, one of
•Sydney s richest men, W. E. Sparke, who amassed,
according' to popular report, vast possessions, first
as senior partner in the old-time spirit merchant
firm of Sparke and Walford, and afterwards by
careful investments. He seldom obtruded himself
before the public, and his donation of £3OOO to the
Bushmen’s Contingent in the days of Jingo was
the first many people had heard of him. Mr.
Sparke was an intense patriot as he understood
it. He had never heard of Australia, but was
very jealous of the fame of N.S.W., and Federa-
tion was to him a Blow. Aged 75.
Coventry Patmore’s brother edited the
Argus. He complained that Minister of
Bands Duffy gave Irish names to places.
Aspinall : “It would have been all right
if he had named one Patmore.” Dr. Evans,
M.L.A., was a queer pedant. He talked in the
Vic. Assembly about Queen Anne, when a mem-
ber interjected: “Do you know her?” Evans
(tremendously) : “Yes, sir. The scholar is con-
temporary with all time.” Had him there. Evans
asked one night : “ Do I see a Pitt on the Govern-
ment benches ? ” Attorney-General Dick Ireland :
“No ; but I see an old fox in the Opposition.” A
Vie. Governor said to C. E. Jones : “ I under-
stand you have been a tailor?” “Yes, your
Excellency.’’ “And how are you employed
now ?” “ Taking your Excellency’s measure.”
Fireworks in the Crystal Palace (Eng.)
grounds on Hempire Day included a “set piece”,
showing a fiery portrait of Edward Bex in his
alleged character of Peacemaker, “ supported on
either hand by colonial magnates ” (probably
mayors) “ presenting rich gifts.” How lovely 1
The fireworks-man caters for the popular cockney
conception of kawlinies countries where the-
object of every “ magnate’s” ambition is to pre-
sent rich gifts to the King.
An official in one of the State Parliaments
regrets the passing away of the old-time hiccuppy
M.L.A. “Them was the men to tip,” he says.
“ I made any number of half-crowns when the
House sat late. It was ‘ bring me this,’ or ‘bring
me that,’an’every time a tip. The M.L.A. now
doesn’t want the things the old lot wanted, and
he’s always sober enough to count his change. I
had threepence back out of a shilling lately-, an’
blowed if the member didn’t wait half-an-hour on;
the steps till I took it to him.”
BRUCE SMITH.
This from “Owl-light” :
When Australia’s credit in England’s money market is*
not safe to touch with a long clothes-prop, then will the-
tariff-wall get a move on Stop Australia’s credit—don’t
give her a tin of jam on tick—and she will open her eyes,,
scratch her head and begin to do things for herself. Tell
the Labor party that the ship has refused to bring its
wearing apparel out, and it will grow cold and make its
own clothes. Tell it the cold truth—that it can retain its-
dreamy Socialism on its platform and starve for another
50 years, or substitute a practical Socialism, and feed,
clothe and educate its main body of supporters, their
wives and children. lam a Labor party supporter, and
believe in everything in the platform ; but I realise that
most of all these splendid measures will take a long time
to fight out. Are we going to live on wind and loans
while we fight them out? In the meantime let’s have
Protection so that we may eat and we’ll fight better-
I’m hungry.


9
Genuine Swiss Miek
WBl>r , Chocoeate.
WRIT C TO-DAY FOR FREE SAMPLE,
and particulars of our
GREAT PRIZE
COMPETITION.
CAILLER'S, Mutual Life Building,
Martin Place, SYDNEY.
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
V/I RE in Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY wipe CLOTH.
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINE /
■\\L \\ OULO BE 1 LEASED 10 GET IN COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE INTERESTED IN WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Ciieaf.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and A.bion Lane. P.o. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
K-esch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
UNDER THE THREE BALLS.
MRS. OLDSTEIN : "Mein gou gracious, Yacob
vot’s der madder mit you-haff you peon
d rinkin’?"
JOCULAR JACOB : “ Vell, mother, I haff shust
broken der pledge .”
•p D. 1 was interested in “ Jimmy
Pannikin s lines (B. 13/7/’O5) about impending
T^iwd-tb l ai f N-W - conier of New South Walcs
I lived there for years, and have seen Cobham
Lake lashed into a storm with waves high enough
to swamp the little boat kept for service between
station and post-office. I have also seen same
lake nothing but a dreary waste of sand-billows
and dust-storms. Cobham, Yantara and Dry
miS S of Tshb Tfi la) t T ere filled - in bi & January
SieVE supptv's ■ Tb"rb d b ro^ h ;
in the middle ef Lakt a nd S withl
government dam. Both disappeared when floods
came, and it was interesting to see their gradual
reappearance as the water decreased. That Out
ot Hell, but in a real good -season—and they come
M?,™ e p 1 “ e f~ tbe P lace !o °bs like a beautiful garden.
Ihe Tar West smiles on you with a bright green
smile till you acquire land there, and th erf you
wake up to find the bald skull of the country look!
ing at you with a dry expression in its sightless
eye, and the crow picking his teeth on your"fence?
* * * *
41 A * Meston’s yarn about
crocodiles (B. 13/7/’O5). In the thirties a live
crocqdde landed in Fiji. As that was the only
it is cTear been S£en in the Elands!
voyage * ‘ can accomplish a long sea
1*P ave HR ” : Thus “Elmore” (B.
13/7/”05)l: “Only domesticated dogs bark; but
if a wild puppy, is reared amongst domesticated
dogs, he learns to bark, and a tame dog, taking
to a wild life, soon gets back to the yelp of his
ancestors. ’ Which is absolute, unmitigated,
fabricated, condemned, balder-
dash. Dingoes bark ; the real, genuine, wild
dingo, who has never seen a white man or a tame
camne m his life. Further, 1 know a man, and
still know him Mr. M'Neil, of Barraba Creek,
Barraba (N.S.W.), who has a dingo, and has had
him from a pup, and that dingo barks. Camped
out at night-time in the Ceenooly scrub, Come-
by-Chance (ISi.S.W.), I have heard dingoes with as
true a bark as any town puppy. Not but what
there are not many dingoes who can raise nothing
beyond a half-hearted yelp, and I retract two or
three of the above adjectives now I think of it.
An instance comes to my mind of a blackfellow
on the Warrego, where I habitated for a good
wi 1 e ’ t, ° I)ad rea . red a wild dingo from a pup.
\\ hen I last saw him lie was half-grown, and had
never seen nor associated with any other dog—
either domesticated or otherwise. He thought
he was the only dog on earth. And he had a
bark as loud and uproarious as if he were 10ft
high.
* * * „
“Ray X.”: Re teetotal rabbits (“ Kul-
para,” B. 8/6/’O5). To-day, at this hotel, I had one
for lunch. It had certainly never drunk anything
and had evidently been fed on desert sand and
poisoned by the leading article of the Sydney
1 klegraph. Ido not put this forward as proof
that the average rabbit can do without water,
although it is as good proof as “ Kulpara’s ” when
he says, “ Rain never falls on these sandhills ; the
last tally at Charlotte Waters was H inches in
three years.’ Now lam prepared to swear on the
front door of the Bible depot, or the gaol, or bv
the beard of “ General ” Booth, that I myself had
a most glorious swim in the creek at Charlotte
Waters m the month of April, 1903. At Alice
Springs the average rainfall (excluding exception-
ally heavy rams which occur every few years) is
l°m., which dwindles down to Him at'Oodna-
olatta. Ihe Charlotte (about halfway) boasts of
from 4in. to sin. This statement can easily be
verified ; failing any quicker way, a wire to Char-
lotte Waters only costs about Is. Gd.
* * * *
The Prooshan ” : Murphy was a member
of Jackson’s road gang, in the Wombat country,
near where Bill Lvne gets his
votes. Murphy wanted badly to
capture a wombat for inspec-
tion, and mooched round in the
moonlight with a pea rifle.
“ v e’ll niver git wan wid that
bit i'.’ a squirt,” said Flynn ;
“but Oi can put ye on to a
r-rale good plan to cop him.
Whin ye’ll see a wombat, lie’ll
thrack sthrate fur his hole, and
the niver a band av Japanese
artillery ’ll sthop him. Now,
Murphy, you take yer blanket
and clap it clane over his hole
when he’s away gr-razin’, and
thin bate round till ye foind
him, and give him a sphur-rt
for home, and we’ll fo’ -rm a
circle round his hole to ipture
him whin he comes. An’, seein’
no hole, he’ll be done.” Next
night Murphy covered the hole
with his best blue blanket, and
m twenty minutes the quarry
came tearing home, with Murphy
in full sail behind. “ Bhoys,
bhoys,” he cried, “he’s cornin’,
he s cornin’ ; for-rm a ring
quick.” Then that pig-like
beast broke through that ring,
upsetting two ganginen, and
the next second Murphy’s
blanket disappeared into the
bowels of mother earth, and
Murphy saw it no more. “.Well,
that do bang Bannagher,” said
h lynn as they walked back to
the camp.
An unreliable person named “ Ileily ” :
Have lately been shown the skin of a fearsome beast
shot on the Big River (H.S.W.) in 1903. The creepy
follow ed a young man about half-a-mile to camp" prowled
around his fire awhile, frightened a sheep dog into helpless
hysteria, said wuff ”in a foreign language, spat on the
company, and was shot while in retreat. A tannery ver-
dict on skin was ‘‘panther.” Measures about 4ft. in
length, legs and tail being disproportionately short and
V", < i k ;, Tl ."r bead is round, ears short and flattened, hair
dull, dog-like m texture and in color mingling of dirty
yellow and gray—mostly dirty yellow. Just reported
that fresh tracks of a similar but much larger animal have
been discovered Big River-wards, and the few settlers
thereabouts are furbishing up their rusty rifles.' Big River
country is among the wildest and most picturesque in
show's an I( * ea SPOt f ° r tle disbandment of wild beast
* *
s Pigweed : Time is close at hand when
the real Australian dingo will be n n ov f *.
animal. The so-called din|o that roams about"he
back country now is seldom the real thine- • he is
a shoddy nnxture of all sorts. Have poisoned lots
lately and find them nearly all black ones with
white legs and breasts. dingo is nearH
always yellow, with short, bushy tail and pricked
win%n In ) t K f Se de " (snerate days the wild pucr-doe
and win f® try V’ g to b ass himself off as adm af
oSlpmJ h,mself mto *» »ta f£
♦-
A certain effect of bad drinking- water is
bowe trouble— Wolfe’s Schnapps will keep the
bowels m perfect order. Caution .-There Ts 1
genuine Aromatic Schnapps but “ Wolfe’s ”
CaH it by its full name.* 'volfes.
PRECIPITATE .
SPINSTER (at the moment of the collision): "Oh, sir, this is so sudden .”
Judge Murray hadn’t been long “adminis-
tering ” in British Papua before he plumbed the
depths of the “civilised” nigger’s civilisation.
A man had been accused of sorcery, one of the
commonest Papuan offences, and the most intelli-
gent and trusted of native officers of police was
sent off in charge of a force to bring the necro-
mancer to headquarters. Coming back by boat
with his prisoner, the intelligent, etc,, officer
pondered on the utter imbecility of the white
man’s rule, and decided to try his own cure for
sorcery ; so he sank the wizard in 10ft. of water
for one hour, to soak the devil out of him. When
he hauled him up the devil was gone. It was
a n are incident that the prisoner was also a
corpse ; and when the most intelligent and trusted
officer was arrested for murder, the white man’s
imbecility was more conspicuous to the Papuan
mind than ever. An alternative process, as they
pointed out, was to gather the sorcerer’s family
and, in their presence, rip him up and hurriedly
stuff some of his contents down his own throat;
but they owned up that that was a messy pro-
ceeding against which the squeamish white
stomach might possibly rebel. But as to the
other, wasn't it clean and effective?
* * * *
“Dico ” : If “ War E.” lived anywhere in
this district (between Lancefield and Kilmore,
Vic.) he would not need to make very careful
observations to prove that foxes kill lambs. Far
mers living near rough, wooded ranges are par-
ticularly heavy losers, but Reynard travels far
and wide at night for lamb. Mr. G. K. Donald-
son, near Lancefield, recently lost 40 lambs in a
week. Moreover, the “tongue theory” is not
mythical. I have frequently come across freshly-
killed lambs with nothing removed but the tongue.
Still, if you poison the carcase, and leave it where
found, you are pretty well sure of a fox or two, as
they generally return to their kill. Strychnine in
suet, placed on a burnt-hide trail, is mostly used
here as a bait, but I have effectively tried parrots,
rabbits, fowls, and ox-liver. When poisoned.
Reynard seems to act much as a dog in like
trouble ; the stomachs of the victims, when opened,
showing that the owners had unsuccessfully tried
the green grass emetic. Some do get rid of the
bait in this way, and, according to local belief,
never touch “dead” meat again.
* * * *
“F.”: Apropos Sofala (B. 20/7/’0o). It
was at Wattle Flat in the roaring days of Sofala
that J. G. L. Innes, afterwards of N.S. Wales
Supreme Court, rode in a race weighted with gold
from the commissioner’s camp. There were men
hanging about the Flat and Sofala in those days
who would have cheerfully diminished the popu-
lation by one future Judge if they had known.
* ♦ *
“ L.C. ’ : Re starved animals’ endurance.
Have just been shown a shark who has had only
one 6s. Bd. in seven weeks. He looks extremely
ravenous, and ready to take on everything.
“Timbarra” : Sorry that I can’t second
“ D.H.R.” (6/7/’O5) in his crusade against jackass-
bangers, ant-murderers, mosquito-smashers and
the savages that squash the inoffensive flea.
Recently “D.H.R.” wrote from Walgett (N.S.W.)
stating that he knows a man who had blown the
inside out of a poor, harmless emu with a gun,
then chased the disembowelled creature through
the scrub for five miles. With this particularly
revolting individual on his visiting list will
“D.H.R.” explain how he considers himself a
more refined and civilised being than “ Cronje,”
whom he rebuked for destroying two caterpillars ?
A CIGARETTE CARNEGIE.
"Au' ter look at ’im you'd NEVER think ’e ’ad
two thousand free ’undred an’ thirty-four
cigarette cards.”
“Vulp”: Apparently iEsop’s fable of
the fox and crow will have to be amended. The
fox acclimatised, in Australia does not want the
bird to open its beak and let fall the tempting
morsel ; he climbs into the feathered creature’s
nest and takes what he wants. At least a Vic.
grazier has written to Melbourne Argus stating
that, while passing through one of his paddocks,
he noticed a fox (which he shot) in a crow’s nest
at the top of a bull-oak tree, about 25ft. high.
The tree was rather on a slant for about 20ft., but
the stem, which held the nest, was perfectly
straight for about 7ft. It is hard to guess what
the fox expected to find in the crow’s tenement
that he should take so much trouble to ornament
the top of a tree with his visage.
A POETASTER'S DIRGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I can’t be a poet;
1 haven’t the time.
And few papers pay for
A serious rhyme.
But, were 1 a poet
To labor at night
On gloomy forebodings,
’Tis thus 1 would write
The sunlight grew fainter behind the dark ranges,
The cry of the curlew came clear through the trees ;
The jackass wa3 sounding his sunset exchanges,
And soft sounds of nightfall were born on the breeze.
And I at the camp-fire was gazing, and dreaming
Of days in the future still hid from the view ;
In doubt if success in the embers were gleaming,
Or failure were writ in the sparks as they flew.
The up-curling smoke of the camp-fire grew whiter ;
There came forth a vision that whispered, “ O, friend !
Why fret if the future be darker or brighter ;
If bright or if dark, ’tis the same in the end !
“Be poor or be wealthy; be sick or be healthy ;
Be sad or be merry ; to what does it tend ?
The grim hand of Fate is as certain as stealthy !
Poor Mortal 1 ’Tis ever the same in the end !
“ Is happiness found in the glory and splendor
That Favor and Fortune to mortals may send ?
Does Misery dwell in the creatures who lend lier
Their tears ? It is ever the same in the end ! ”
The coo-ee rang sharp, and the vision evanished,
I answered the call of my mate from the bend ;
But never the thought has been utterly banished :
The lot of us all is the same in the end !
1 can’t be a poet
1 told you before.
1 have to be keeping
The wolf from, the door.
But were I a poet,
And gave you my best,
I’d fill you ivith sadness
And gloom like the rest !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
Milky "W kite puts a. strain on public
credulity : L
JL S^ e Tl tS °i. Victoria Brer Rabbit has become so in-
telhgent that ordinary traps and poisoned baits—even
those made of sweet jams placed temptingly on the top
of freshly-turned sods—are passed by with the up-raised
tad of scorn Also, in places where the rabbits have been
deri^on hed Th°e r v ha ny yCarS ’ W]r % nettin B' is treated with
derision. They have grown proficient in jumping and
smiply steeplechase over the wire. Many of these fntelli-
gent athletic old rabbit-identities have noted that do<>s
cant climb trees. This has induced them to learn the
ait themselves, with the result that the man who shoots
at’possum in the moonlight is sometimes staggered to
find rabbits pouring down on him. But this is seldom
for the rabbit-up-a-tree has already learned when to come
in out of the moon. This evidence of advanced education
recently inspired a cocky with a last despairing ide£ He
studied the swarming rabbits with great dilfgence and
found them to be kind and extremely generous in’ dL
portion Then he put notices on Ids holding •
Rabbits are kindly requested to keep off this property ”
1 or awhile there seemed to be no diminution of bunnv—
rather an increase ; but in a high wind one of the notices
was blown down. An old buck cautiously approached
and examined the face of the board carefully Tut,
left thoughtfully, full of news and gras"A* week Tater
on that farm there wasn’t-an owner. He had been
manded for medical examination. aa been le '


WOLFE’S Schnapps
means business when it tackles
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES)
Let others sing of Prince and King
For mine’s a theme that’s greater,
I sing that great, that wondrous thing,
King Cough’s Exterminator.
No Victor in triumphal car
Shows conquests half as sure,
For greater far the triumphs are
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
THE
“Fx. & R.” WATCHES
“Are the most extraordinary
Watches of the Age.”
They are -f-plate Levers.
They have Brequet Overcoil Balance
Springs.
They have Compensated and Adjusted
Balances.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are dust-proof and watertight.
They screw together or close in the
ordinary way with hinge.
They are specially made to stand Rough
Riding and Knocking About, and
go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years and kept
in order for 2 years (breakages
excepted).
With 15 Jewels, in Oxidised O.P. Case,
30/- ; in Solid Silver, open-face
Case, 42/-. Any Initials in Mono-
gram, 2 6 extra.
N
\
25/6
30 1-
Genfc.’s full-size J-plate Lever, 30/-, with 15 Jewels ;
with 7 Jewels, 25/6 ; 15 years’ guarantee.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
DISCOUNTED.
MRS. ARIDFACE : “ Yes, so yer liar, Bill' Ardface,
a dirty, low drunken wretch; an I'll let the
’ole world know it."
BILL : “ Well, don't tork so loud or somebody'll
be 'earin' yer."
“ Quartz Crystal ” : Be tracking wild bees,
as described by “ Thurla ” and “ Orthos.” Latter
lives right up to his pen-name this deal. The
altitude and rapidity of the bee’s flight carry it
beyond human vision before the would-be tracker
can get a gait on himself. Especially so against a
dark background of foliage. Besides, the man
doesn’t live who can focus the tail disc of a homing
bee and at the same time run through the primi-
tive forest without breaking' his neck. Thousands
of water-carrying bees come every day to a spring
alongside my camp in fairly open country, and
against the advice of my mate, an expert in bush-
craft, I ran myself dog-poor in fruitless endeavor
to see where they went. Tried also imprisoning
a few in a bottle to act as relays along the line.
1 lie prison was a recently-emptied whisky bottle
(my mate’s) with the cork pushed in. They all
got drunk on the cork, and when I managed to
snake one out he only gave a drunken, good-
natured buzz and wanted to get back again,
breaking the bottle was ineffective ; they wouldn’t
leave the cork. That advice about rolling bees in
flour and tying fluff to their legs to retard flighlris
a subtle and ghastly joke. If you want to tie
anything to a wild bee, you must tie it round his
neck tight enough to choke him ; otherwise,' he
'von t go straight home, or anywhere else, till he
has seen the argument out. “My mate says he
"as only successful in finding honey when he
"asn t looking for it. That’s me too.
* * * *
‘ Janor ” | “ W.P.8.” is bushed when he
in * paddyinelon with the kangaroo-rat
1 Op)* The p.m. is larger and heavier than
lok- ’ wdb darker fur, and resembles the wal-
a y m appearance and habits —that is, it feeds in
ne day-time mostly and browses. The rat lives
principally on roots, which it digs for with its
, J!: pa - WS b and feeds at ni § ht - The day it passes
Zu Pin i lta , nesfc> carefuHy built of grass. Tie
E- . y melon has n ° fixed camp. Dogs make no
tW,wn a 3 *° the , of the two beasties ;
i VI n °k p a t the ’roo-rat, cooked or raw, but
y ose no time in getting outside of the ’melon.
* * » »
Tlle “sugar-bag” is tracked
tW T I n ,& e gum tree } U oth er methods besides
££ “Periwinkle” (B. 22/6/’O5) refers to.
cemw f ’ 1 borrowe d a horse in Gippsland re-
2*°-T ry “ e t 0 fche next township. He was
withaS 0 ?K and I had to belt him along
off u ddy the first few miles. Then he bolted
bush fnr r a ad 'i Wltdl / reat v igor, tore through the
a bees’ Pulled up at a tree containing
blazed 'thfv ASO ™ re . fused to leave it until I
eneSft' 166 ’ Mentioned this outburst of
trained ?v*L 18 i oWne -j and he ex P lai »ed that he had
had found u a !i gU i d moke to track bees. Moke
Way anrl un dreds °t hee trees in his own tired
<4hU
“NT *
Peculiar 1 ! A Inscruta ble as they are
aw ay ayS ° f b E sll people to while
their lomdirf 1^6 jl ours ’ and ease the weight of
inconsolabWK K TT ? ne lone co <*y who is
After “waal m--'SI chronograph goes wrong,
bom its snl' ?’ , d L onely takes lus “clock”
counts the ! n d u nail and .winds it up; then he
face, to a n d b° n ? S an f mmutes fc he round of the
world com V an !sspends5 pe - nds ho . urs at it- His
a twenty niik a - s t ai )d«till if the ticker stops, and
SomeS' aa 1 ! a i ;|a ”n t i fo “ WS to tlie “doctor.”
are made rJ a - Wl ll °l )c in - Then great wagers
buttons * or rpatches, fishhooks, or
bv m can hold his breath the
“CeX,W C ° Ck aforesaid; how long a
times between T ° ne l or . other ’ s hand ; the
*-«r een the local mopoke s mopes, etc.
Jim and Molly went to
Sydney on their honeymoon
last week. It was their first
trip to the city, and, tired of
walking the streets, Jim pro-
posed a ride on the trams.
Molly boarded one at the first
crossing. Jim was about to
follow when a facetious youth
on the kerb whistled and
beckoned him over to ask him
where he bought his whiskers.
Jim let go the tram, but, when
he looked again, the youth
had disappeared. Jim cursed
luridly, especially when he
found the tram and Molly had
disappeared also. Glaring
wildly up the road, he spied
Molly’s red sunshade flash-
ing in the distance, and,
crowding his hat furiously
on his ears, he set off at
full speed. Several news-
boys shouted “10 ter 1
Whiskers!” and other rude re-
marks ; but Jim flew along
like a scalded emu. He was
gaining rapidly till a moun-
tainous policeman, scenting
robbery, stepped out to head
him off. A violent collision
ensued, and it took Jim some
time to explain things.
The copper advised him to
follow on in the next tram.
Jim did this, and told the
driver “t’ send th’ blank
erlong, as th’ blank ahead
is running erway with me
missus.” Before they
reached the next crossing,
a tram going the opposite
way flashed by with a red
sunshade aboard. Jim
grew apoplectic, and
yelled to the driver :
“Bull th’ blank up—
there’s th’ missus goin’
th’ other blanky way.”
The tram stopped. Jim
jumped off, and was just
starting another record sprint.
when a gust of wind flipped off his hat, and
bowled it under a passing furniture van. Jim
picked up the mangled remains, and was
about to resume his swift journey, when a
shrill “Cooee!” brought him to a stop. It was
Molly. She stood beaming at the corner and
blushing furiously. Jim, with the badly-fractured
hat on his head, and the perspiration trickling
over his whiskers, strode over. “’Struth!” he
gasped, “ I’ve a good mind t’ divorce y’! ”
* * * *
“ Werrimee”: A station-hand is a “pound-
a-week” man, supposed to be
generally useful. He is oftener
generally useless. This is not
always iiis own fault, as most
managers prefer quantity to
quality, and will pass almost any
kind of a botch, providing it has
been done in “ quick time.”
They don’t ask a man to make
a “ permanent job ” of anything,
but to “just patch it up tem-
porarily.” The cost of repairs
in the monthly account is thus
low, and allows a lot of private
jobs to be worked in. Another
nice little scheme is worked in
the ration line. If the men got
the full allowances of everything
granted by the Pastoralists’
Union they would live really
well, and be contented. But
half of what the men should
have is consumed by visitors, the
frequency of whose calls is re-
markable just after the loading
comes up. When the jams,
pickles, “bullocky’s joy,” and
other luxuries are done, the visi-
tors become too busy at home
to call round. To adjust the
flour and sugar account at such
times numerous charity rations
are booked to imaginary travel-
lers, while the real traveller is
turned away with empty bags,
or, at best, with a bit of scraggy
meat.
* * *
Til good old Australia, it is
not yet considered degrading for
a hungry man to ask ,for meat.
At a Melbourne suburban court
the other day, a witness, asked if
the prisoner had begged from him,
replied: “Oh, no, he wasn’t begging; he only
asked me to give him a feed.”
‘ * Robin X ” : Concerning old Sofala (B.
20/7/’O5). Steve Swain’s public house, referred to
by “ Burrowong,” is now the Roman Catholic
presbytery. On the opposite side of the street is
Dr. Cobb’s residence, at one time a pub. owned
by Tom Smith. Maloney’s booking-office was a
pub. kept by Bill Smith; but of the 29 pubs of
the early days at least 20 have been demolished.
By the way, the Turon River, on which Sofala
stands, is rightly a creek, and not to be boasted
about at that. The “ windiest ” creek I know is
between Turondale and Sofala. The road, which
is fairly straight, crosses this rivulet—known as
Jew’s Creek—2o times in four miles. The old
Sydney road from Hill End via Box Ridge to
Bathurst, which at one time was lined in its 48
miles of distance with some 15 pubs as well as
various “shanties,” cannot now show a single
drink emporium, though remains are plentiful
enough.
* * * *
“Itan”: lie snake lengths. An 18ffc.
carpet snake was once killed near Maclean, in the
Clarence district of N.S.W. ; and I have myself
killed a 14ft. “carpet,” containing an undigested
’possum.
‘P. : Be size of Australian snakes
(B. 21/7/’05).. The arid Nullarbor Plains, in the
south-west corner of the Central State, are the
habitat of a harmless monster known locally as
the Rock Snake, which is alleged to frequently
exceed 20ft. in length. Saw the skin of one 18ft.
long at a boring camp. The cook had filled the
skin with sand and slung it over a branch to dry.
which process might possibly have stretched it
somewhat. Afterwards saw live specimens that
did not run to more than 12ft. or 14ft. The chief
peculiarity of this snake is the tail, which tapers
off with grotesque suddenness to a spike of meat
about the length and thickness of a big man’s
mid-finger. The reptile inhabits wombat holes,
and the wombats don’t seem to mind—though
(syd. of scaly visitor in the house must be some-
thing more than a mere circumstance. The first
sight of one of these worms slowly emerging from
his doss-house is apt to fill the beholder with that
“weird expectant’’ wonder which afterwards
leads him to confidently swear that the creature
was a quarter of a mile long at least. It is diffi-
cult to measure distances with the eye, especially
when the distance is alive.
“Nulla”: Wild pigs are plentiful along
the Bogan, and some squatters give a bonus for
“ pig’s face ” on account of their destructiveness
to lambs. Occasionally the shearers, on horse-
back, have a pig-hunt, carrying a shear-blade
lashed to a sapling in lieu of a hog spear ; but
though the Bogan pig is game, like all his species,
and also fairly fast, he can’t last more than half a
mile in a fast run Melbourne Cup, and does not
give as much excitement as might be supposed.
There are herds of semi-wild pigs along the head
of the Macquarie or Fish River, and parts of the
immense forest areas look as though stump-jump
ploughs had been at work, so strenuous is t 1 - pig-
in his struggle for subsistence. The p. k - ..re
rounded up and taken to town as “stores;” and
though pig droving is mighty slow, one point
about it is that, providing you camp near a dead
beast, there is no danger of the drove straying or
“ rushing ” at night.
* » * *
The fame of the Australian rabbit has
crept up through the fogs and mists to the top of
Scotland. Lately an Australian was sight-seeing
up there, and looked in at a village market. The
large sheep-owner of those parts was on hand, a
proud man in charge of six fine beasts. “Hey,”
said the Australian, “ those things look like sheep,
don’t they ? ” “Aye, an’ they are sheep, an’ fine
’uns, too.” “And how many like that have you
got?” “Aw, mebbe twa hunterd.” The proud
Australian said that in his country they counted
sheep by thousands—they had 200,000,000 alto-
gether. “Eh!’’said the great sheep-boss, in an
injured way, “and what’s yair country?” “Aus-
tralia.” “Aw. Twa hunterd millions. Then
Aw’m thinkin’ ye’ve got yair stairved sheep an’
yair dom’d rabbits boxed tigether.”
A MERRY DEVIL.
SUNDOWNER (just arrived): “Got any work,
boss ?”
THE BOSS : “Work I We don't work here!
There's been smoke-oh ever since I remember."
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
S.P.B. : Small boy and half-crown joke been
done often in various forms Alan : “ Pain and Pleasure ’
just a hair’s breadth under par Protection: (1) Yes.
(2 and 3) Impossible to say accurately, but in mining' the,
ore and manufacturing the iron there would be employ-
ment for about 15,000 men. Including their families and
dependents that might mean support for 60,000 people or
more. Of course, the people that these 60,000 would
support in turn if we manufactured for ourselves (grocers,
butchers, bakers, bootmakers, tailors, hatters, shirt
makers, spinners and weavers of wool cotton and silk,
tanners, curriers, rabbiters, carpenters, cabinet-makers,
publicans, farmers, market-gardeners, &c.) would easily
make another 60,000. (4) Impossible to say without know-
ing if the engine was really worth the price paid. Better
put on 50 per cent, duty and not worry about details
Basileus : Only one good verse in it Nilgo : Long and
vague T.S.G. : “ Valete ” and “ Cynicism ” only album
verse Chatterton Redivivus: Better have let Ohatter-
tou stay dead... .G.G. : “ Girlie ” very ragged J.P.B. :
“ Between the Gates ” just misses the mark. “ Promise ”
good V.S. : “ Allee ”is a low-spirited thing about the
“ silent t0mb.”.... L. IT. A. : “ Other Self ” has lines of all
sorts of lengths J.M.S. : Neither good enough, though
“Land of Dreams” isn’t very bad....Protos : “Red
Roses” is—well, it is just a respectable rose poem.
And we still wait for some soul-stirring verse
about the cucumber... .John M. : “Stowing” rather a
dry catalogue of events K.S. : “In May” de-
clined. “Day Dream” accepted. Will hunt up
“Cynthia.”....W.D. : Don’t care for parodies....
Vulcan : That Islands row is now sub judice, an action
for damages having been begun A. Carlyle : “ Cattle ”
poem rather weak. Suggestion may do Itan : Doesn’t
impress us Frank H.: Rather weak and pointless
Bert M. : Picturesque, but sloppy R.V. : Hardly
enough in them... .Nunquam R. : You don’t perjure
yourself with distinction enough.. .. W.D. VV.: Your Muse
badly needs a tonic Dodo: Too affected and self-
conscious 11. Gordon : Faintly humorous Fred B. :
“Bill’s Medal” didn’t quite catch on E.S. : “Swan-
son ” much too long forß Dauber : Notquite ; though
you’re not an artist, either J.F.: “Regret” is mawk-
ishly sentimental J.F.: “ Brevio ” declined B.
Gibson : Well meant, badly versed W.G.H. : “ Vision
of Death ” makes us think that death is hardly worth
dying after all.... Drifter: Liver isn’t a thing to make
frivolous verses about Don Barr : “ And when I think
of the days gone by”—that line would kill any verses
deader than Pharaoh’s mother-in-law W.W.S. : “My
Old Tin Dish” is also a mere thinking, in long, lazy,
slinking metre, of r.he days gone by. Days always will go
by—the fact is so obvious as to be hardly worth men-
tioning, unless you have something bright to say about
them. And the horse, and the dog, and the tin dish, and
the bark hut and the cow will grow old if they live long-
enough, so it isn’t worth writing at any great length
merely to say that they are not so young as they used
to be. Try a bright, fresh poem about crocodiles....
A.V. : “Princey” lacks point and vigor.... A. & P.V. :
You greatly need experience. One item too feeble of
interest. Other too jerky and enigmatical Kulpara :
That “ paper yabber ” yarn is well stricken in years
J.B. : “Halves” is prolix and wearisome 8.F.W.:
(Question settled long ago. You “ lag superfluous on the
stage.” D.Mac. : Ogilby’s “Edible F.sbes of N.S.W.”
will serve your purpose Nym : “ Gireusiana ” too ille-
gible for our time Black Cat: Jingles well, but wbat
is it about? Dons : You tell Australia to “arise” and
“ stand ” and “ advance ” and “lead on,” and all these
cries are vanity P.L.T. : “Double Ready” is a very
plain swindle....R.C. :“ Reverie ” has no show. “The
lamp in the heart of my wife” would kill any poem
Jayson : (1) Nothing suitable nor very promising. (2)
Better write to the Pastoralists’ Review re sta-
tion matters, or apply to some of the big pas-
toral companies. (3) Try Rickards Just: “Dream-
ing” is pretty, but is too small a fragment
A.G.: “ Awakened ”is not far short of the mark... .R.D.:
“ Art ” comes pretty close up ; other very poor
Yarrum : “Raw Material’’—just so! Not well enough
worked-up liuru : Touch not deft enough H.E.R.:
“ Renegade ” is forceful in places, but is void of balance
and finish... .L. R. Mac.: Has merit, but lacks point
Sandy: “Esther” is weak and unskilful; other pretty
fair, but too minute and prolix... .Sam \V.: Unintelligible
in places.... A Rover : Well, you haven’t roved into print
this turn J.8.K.: Yes, we received your humorless gag,
and, seeing possibilities in it which were invisible to your
dull intelligence, we improved it. Of course, you don’t
notice the improvement. A man who could send in the
wooden thing you furnished would hardly do so The
Moocher : You must e ther write better or mooch else-
where D.R. : “To Her” having failed to reach her,
better wire the girl direct Chas G. : The gag is old
and the verse wooden The Raven : No print value
Chas. Iv. (S.A.): Poor quality Oliver : One weak, and
the other too stiff and formal... .E.L.D. (W.A.): Feebly
picturesque Cyril V. : No vigor or grace of style
A.H.I. : Has some literary merit, but is ill-constructed
and awkwardly handled... .Calattie : Too trifling J.
Dorgan : Impossible verse Young Australia : Its
length kills it M.N.E. : Rather flimsy Owen P. :
You haven’t the narrative knack T.F. : We’ve no use
for allegories G.C. : Too audacious for cold print
A.D.Q. : Lacking in literary quality.... Percy M. : You
have a little descriptive power, and that is all H.E.R. :
“Billy” is very rough work... .D.M.R. : Verses about a
bookie don’t appeal to us... .Hwac.: Yarns mostly incor-
rect Chip : A fairly good bit of amorous verse, but not
up to print level. So many amorous verses are writttn.
Mike: Nay Simjun : Not up H. 0.8.: You work
over ground that has long been exhausted by poetic fos-
sickers E.A.B. : The S.M.H. might publish that with
safety, but not Tub Bulletin Mars : Mixture point not
well enough taken J.F.F. : Well, the sort of job we’re
most willing to see pass the Australian by is that of
“second footman” at Government House. Let the
“Young Englishman” advertised for do that w-ork
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Reips : No use N.W. : “Dooley’s Relapse”
declined after some consideration.,..J.L.W.: Egg joke
a failure Coon : You are not a black-and-white Coon.
Truth: Unsuitable....E.S,T. : Neither pictures nor
ideas worth using H. Clay: Quite unfit... .Me. :
“Newspaper Compliments” doesn’t read exactly like
a joke, nor is it picturesque abuse.... E. VV. : Picture of
nude person in wash-house declined... .John L. :
“Saver” poor sketch and strained joke. “Moses’’not
humorous H.S. : Only a picture of a drunk H.T.
“ Let Off ” mediocre Reaby :Of no general interest....
P.L.F. : Oldest gag on earth J.T. : Sorry to say not
nearly up to the mark.... Polly: Quite unsuitable....
Unsuitable : Wat Tell, T.M.C.


■v* T al. AUVliKTISERS.
<|wote you a figure for it." ’
Above is depicted the happy result.
| N.S.W. Premier Carruthers threatens
to evict G.-G. Northcote from Sydney
Govt. House if he isn’t allowed to pick,
the Federal capital. ■
r “I have known, in my
earlier days, what hard
work is,” said Mr. Car-
rut hers. »* Some of my
-colleagues have known it. <
One of them has had to
i k «»ep himself and a sister '
|on 12s. a week ; yet he
has risen to be a Cabinet
[Minister. **
The O'Sullivan thinks that the N.S.W. State
Government ought in provide Civil Service billets
for our champions (including prize-fighters;
“who have upheld the honor of the country.”
State Premier (ta applicant for
billet In lire Stamp Licking De-
partment) i “Show me your
\ references.”
cricketers in England?” f the Australian
r*- 1 1 '" oaun ’ t «*• * '«.ch
(Therefore see « Wr rlMt
corner of this paper.)
Mentioned in F>arliament that Australia has 8 colonels, 46 lieutenant-
colonels, 98 majors, 316 captains, and 723 lieutenants and second lieutenants.
The great aggregate officer in chorus : “ Form yourself
into a hollow square I'’
MILITARY AND OTHER MATTERS.


<m
cl^ lr V c
|Qpe>
inr °
S|>Q7* r (s* London
b^nK-t" J S>l\j j *s>?.
OM+iooK in
Uhifed Kirjodorr, ts due fo
°tf ,n -
Q 0 |ohj id £-\o\t)Qr fo'&.ns •
A r^
Ays - A ll I s^y ( yoar
ip you Keef>
[|irr> yoMK€ rjo j'riend op
t>Tn«. ' *
(oWr.— GOll7O \
try /rk I/oncsr \
117 deed? Mot borrow.
Pont' let" me V^ l - .
(jet~ into debt owe
to me !
Tfiere only tVee
+o v/A+ci, over
2X,600 htoble in
& n* l v?r h Age"
• Well, hjwm, wlie.H
only *bt»tb*es
in 'Hjo. vdjole district
VeW. +0
rffPfrfcu CJW on 'jem !
"Toirv,
Con ter® he 8-
Si4es on.
► Liquor GLues^'
4"o ..
lije. rWter' iY
' soodS$ ood S *s a, cKOestlort
°J SenTirocKf 1 X V
Pfy'i o'-' 0 '-' fTfclfc-ff-.
'/ a * • Suffcnlv - -
Siy./aftsortwl *
f>^ r S°ws for
-ltj« b f]Vffers wcve go*!
will
+b
Swallow
Bc*>-ts vfefe
SficKWoi'k^
Doc'-" you've hv* SoW)e.'tHif7C^^^ oC^h '^ a 'S re<2 V°u !
OU ~' y&s ! bNc<w,» r Ks ! ”
"Ifie Origin o y Tkife^
‘ ?z» ow <Ae*d it*
2*fr6re I *ny on *7“
Wall, locK rf n*w! *’
MOSTLY VICTORIAN.


A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Flicto. Pendants,
Set ?earls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
Extra Large, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15 cl. Gold Two-Bar Opal and
Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Newest Style Fancj Gold Chain Padlock Bracelet,
with Safety Chain, in Four Sizes, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4.
A SAUNDERS.
Gold Buckle Bar Brcch.
Set Rubies or Sapphires, los.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold
phires,
Bweret,
£2 15s.
Set Diamonds and Rubies
Fitted Extra Strong Safety
or Sap-
Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Double Heart and Knot
Brooch, 12s 6d. A Tasty Design.
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Diamonl Bracelet, Three Pure Double
rnonds, Extra Strong Safety Chain, £5.
and Rubies, £4 10s.
Cut Dia-
Diamonds
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted N.Z. Greenstone
l’endant, 27s (id. Other Styles,
s Oil, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s Gd,
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made Rings,
6d, 10s, loot., 15s.
Extra Heavy, 255.
18ct., 20s.
Extra Heavy, 30s
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-Made Keepers,
9ct., 7s 6d, 10s, 12s Od
15ct„ 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
ISct., 22s 6d, 30s,
40s, 50s.
£4 4s.
£4 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half Hunting Keyless Watches,
Extra Heavy Cases, High Grade, f Plate Move-
ment, Fuily Jewelled, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 6s.
Guaranteed Three, Four, and Five Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Diamond
and Two Rubies
•r Sapphires, SOs.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Set
4 Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
8S
A- SAUNDERS
18et. Gold, Three Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£3, £4, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold Half-Hoop Engagement
Ring, set with live Pure
Double Cut r->
Diamonds,
.
18ct. Gold 2 Heart
Opals, 4 Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
£4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Buttercup
Set Pure Double Cut
Diamond, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS
18ct. Gold Five Opal
Ring, £2 10s.
Extra Quality
Opals, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold Four Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
and Tvvo Rulies or
Sapphires. £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS
18ct. Gold Half-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £l5.
Smaller, £i2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Baud Rings,
12s 6d, 15s.
loot. Gold, 20s, 255;
ISct. Gold, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JRct. Gold Half Round
Single Piamord RinjU
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5-
r
s
yt I k
A. SAUNDERS.
sox ear
£3 lOs
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ High Grad,; Solid Silver Keyless Levers,
Full Jewelled, $ Plate. £2 10s.
£4 10s Solid Gold, £4, £5, £o 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £S 10s. £lO ins. to £2O. Guaranteed
Three, Four, Five, and Six Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Pure
Diamond and Pearls,
255, 80s, £2.
I,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bracelet Scroll, Set with Extra Quality
Pure White Pearls, £3 10s. Extra Strong Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solic Silver Match Box
Handsomely Chased, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Locket, 20s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Plain Signet
Ring, 3ct. Gold,
15s, 20s, 255;
15ct. Gold, 30s, 35s •
18ct. Gold, £2,
£2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted N.Z. Greenstone
Fish Pendant, 17a 6d, 253.
SPECIAL REDUCTIONS
IN SOLID SILVER HUNTING KEY-WIND
usual price, ENGLISH LEVERS, reduced price.
£44/-
mm
m
K
-
m
k;£
m MnNiw
£2 15/-:
A. SAUNDERS.
In order to reduce our large stock we have decided
to sell these famous watches at £2 15s —usual price,
£1 4s. They are specially made, full covered cap, key
movement, compensation balance, fully jewelled, dust-
proof cases, perfectly regulated and adjusted.
Kept in repair for three years free of charge.
Biggjg
SKKS
VI
SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Diamond and Ruby or Sapphire Bracelet,
JC2 10s. loot. Gold, £4 6s. Safety Chain Attached.
A. SAUNDERS,
luct. Gold
Sot Pure White
Pearls, IVs 6d,
22s 6d.
The Lord Watch
Between Me fc
IHEE
Mtia i hi h
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Heart,
Charm, 8s 6il.
Smaller, os 6a, fis 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign Purses, 8s Gd, 10s, 12s Gd,
Gold Filled, los, Ids 6d, 20s, 22s 6d. Solid
Gold, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two Bar Pure Double
Cat Diamond in Centre,
£2, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s 'Jet. G‘dd
Amethyst King, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10a.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Double
Thistle Ueart,
Pendant, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield and
Dumbbell Links,
12s 6d.
Silver, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Two Bar Spray, Amethyst and
Bell Chain Brooch, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Long Gold Muff Chains, ii
Style and Pattern made, £2, £2
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7,
i Every
10s, £3,
£B, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Enamel
Thistle Brooch, 3s.
Cheaper Line, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Links, 255;
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pearl ar.d Turqtioisa
Set Charm, 17s 6d.
NICKEL,
20/-
SILVER,
35/
\ * /
S
flsVeorgehueeC
SYDNEY
i
\
A. SAUNDERS.
Hon -magnetic, Strong, Reliable, Knockabout Watches,
Our “Unrival lea” Dust and Water Proof Case, 20a.
London Lever, 255; Extra Jewelled, 30s. Cheaper
Lines, 10s, 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. All Guaranteed. Will
be exchanged if not satisfactory.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin Chair
and Charm, 5s 6d.
Also Heart, Anchor,
Bell, Cross, or
Wishbone.
Send for Our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
We Send it POST FREE to any address
in Australia.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pendant
Set Peails
and Ruby
or Sapphire, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Design Double Heart and Drop Necklet, 15ct. Gold, set with Extra Quality Pure White Pearls,
in Silk-Lined Leather Case, £l2 10s. Other Styles, £5 sa, £lO, £l5, £l7 10s, £2O, £25.
**
•ouwujllr
& -nil
m
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Chains, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5; loci. Gold, £5 10s, £fi 10s, £7, £B,
£lO. Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17a 6d.
Patent Gold Filled. Patterns 1 and 3,15 s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird
and
Charm, Is Gd.
Larger, 8s Od.
• I
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin Nob
and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d.
Larger, 7s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2 10s
GOLD
CASED,
£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS.
Waltham Washes, Solid Silver limiting Oases,
Extra Quality Movements, £2 10s, £3, £3
10s, £4, £5. Patent Gold Case, £4 4s, £5
ss, £6 10s. Solid Gold, £7 10S, *;10, £l2,
10s, £l5, £2O, £25. Guaianteea Three,
Four, Five, and Six Years.
A. Saunders,
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=st.,
Opposite Railway Statius


L_
THE MOTHER’S FAVORITE -
Mothers of Small Children affected wPh Croup, Coughs,
Colds, or Whocping Cough, need not hesitate to give them
CHAMBERLAIN'S Cough Remedy
It contains no narcotics in any form. Always Cures. Pleasant to take and Safe,
A GUARANTEED CURE' FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cures ordinary
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
only Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee. 2s. 3d.
Of all chemist's. PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
Griffith and Allan, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hiil Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*
BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES
[VI ORRIS’S
“imperial.**
imperial
]£\>e * *
Ointment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. Pots 2/-
chemists & stores. Post 2/2 from Proprietary, Meibl
HATS,
•^tgae«sE3gm»'
HAVING specially selected from the world's best
markets the latest in HARD FELT HATS, I aui
able to offer values above the ordinary.
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2—An equally fashionable
Hat, at S/6, in five different
shapes.
No. 3 —A superior Hat, beauti-
fully finished, Pure Fur, at
10/6 , in five of the latest
shapes worn.
No. 4 is a high-class Bowler, showing in ten distinct
shapes, Fashion Fancies, 12 6, quality unsurpassed.
Country Customers post your orders to—
A. H. RUSSONS, "La^P.a'
A NOVEL PRESENT.^-
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
9ct. Colcl-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, 3/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Colo’s
Cook Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
HAY MAN’S
BALSAM.
“ Used your valuable Remedy for j
COUGH & COLD
OVER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success.’’
—J Hall, School-house, E. Markham.
AGENT S.
EI.MOTT BROTHERS & CO
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
i
- r ;
Sold
BY ALIi
First-Class
Store*
in Australasia.
No. 8160.
1 Blade.
Cocoa Handle - 11-
Buffalo Hancllo » 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
aro tho
BEST.
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney)
Added
to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dee., 1838.. £54,156 15 p.c. =£51,135 £3021 £1|6,896
In'no 1899.. 46,995 15 ~ 51,135 112,756
Dec./ 1899.. 55,6*28 15 „ „ 51,135 4493 117,249
June, 1900.. 47,879 15 „ „ 61,135 113,993
llee 1903 54,033 15 „ „ 51,130 2898 116,891
June 1901 48 352 15 „ 51,135 - 114,108
Dec ,’mi'., seisis 15 „ „ 51,918 4900 119,008
June 1902 . 49,954 15 „ ~ 55,045 113,917
Dec 1902 61 648 16 „ „ 56,205 5341 119,258
June 1903 ' 51,703 15 „ „ 56,250 - 114,711
Dec 1903 .60 445 15 „ „ 56,250 4195 118,906
June 1904 52 187 15 , „ 56,250 - 114,843
Dec 1904.! 61,555 15 ~ „ 56,250 5305 120,148
June’, 1905.. 53,343 15 „,, 56,818 116,673
Besides the reserves shown above the co. has the follow-
Ul k ' Dec., June, In-
-1904. 1905. crease.
1 ‘ Susnense V (including Pre-
miums on new issues) ..£216,631 £278,540 £61,909
Meter reserves .. •• 6,903 8,181 1,278
Total £223,534 £286,721 £63,187
The nature of the “ suspense accounts ” is not disclosed ;
but they are partly reserves for certain, and probably
wholly so. During: the half-year some additional capital
has been subscribed; the instalments amounted to
£l6 513, and the 100 p.c. premium on these shares was to
be paid in the same-sized instalments as the capital.
Premiums can therefore hardly account for the big- jump
the suspense account has taken. Reckoning this account
in with reserves, the half-year shows a return of £9 15s.
p.c. p.a. on shareholders’ funds as they stood on Jan. Ist.
On the average amount of assets, the net profit was
£6 Bs. p.c. —a magnificent return, seeing that just upon
one-third of these assets represent borrowed money on
which interest is paid. The average gas co. doesn’t write
down its assets to a reasonable extent ; but the Sydney
co. has such a phenomenally profitable monopoly that,
after paying 15 p.c., it appears to have had enough left
over at various times to write its properties down bard.
The bank that can show £2 p.c. net profits on its assets is
doing exceptionally well ; the A.G.L. Co. can do more
than three times that, and still complain about bad times
and about having to pay £2OOO a year harbor dues.
* * * *
Consider the extermination of bunny and the
profit of exporting him. In ’94 Victoria commenced
sending the rodent back to the land whence he came, to
the value of £225 ; in ’95, £14,390 worth of him were dis-
patched : since then the annual figures have been
£45,345, £67,642, £74,039, £156,886, £189,274, £139,515,
£224,946, £238,436, £241,557, and first six months of ’O5
£160,000 ; altogether, £1,552,255 in about a decade, over
half of which went to producers. This in spite of drastic
exterminatory measures ; yet there are still people who
say the only way to deal with bunny is by poison, or
digging out, or other similar means. The “demand”
question seems all right so far, as that £160,000 above
quoted means but 5,000,000 bunnies, which barely gives
the Cockneys one rabbit apiece every six months, and
every Londoner should have more than two annual
rabbits.
» * * •
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.): —
Net Carried to De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
Dec., 1898 .. £949 7 per cent. = £525 £424 £678
June, 1899 .. 1071 7 „ „ „ 525 546 132
Reserves.
Dec., 1899 .. 1042 7 „ „ „ 525 517 385
June, 1900 .. 941 8 „ „ „ 600 341 726
Dec., 1900 .. 1090 8 „ „ ~ 600 490 1216
June, 1901 .. Hl3 8 „ „ ~ 600 513 1729
Dec., 1901 .. 1252 10 ~ „ ~ 750 502 2231
June, 1902 .. 1748 10 „ „ „ 750 998 3229
Dec., 1902 .. 1391 10 „ „ „ 750 041 3370
June, 1903 .. 1248 10 „ „ „ 750 498 4368
Dec., 1903 .. 1529 10 „ „ „ 750 779 5147
June, 1904 .. 1268 10 „ „ ~ 750 518 5665
Dee., 1904 .. 1503 10 750 753 6418
June. 1905 .. 1547 10 „ „ „ 750 797 7215
Paid capital is £15,000 ; on that and reserves the profits
were at the handsome rate of £l4 Bs. lid. per cent. —
which makes the Ballarat rank among the four most
profitable trustee co.’s of Australasia. And yet, in spite
of this glittering return, almost the whole of the funds
are in Vic. Government securities ; mortgages amount to
only £lBOO, the balance being either in co.’s freehold
(£2013) or in cash balances. The value of trust estates in
hand is steadily increasing ; 12 months ago the total was
£981,024, while it is now £1,098,331. The right handling of
this is guaranteed, not only by the co.’s present funds, but
by an uncalled £35,000 ; and there is a reserve liability of
another £50,000. Charges of management amount to
£1421 (£1472 twelve months ago), equal to about ss. 2d.
per cent, per annum of trust estates ; with the growth of
business no dcubt this percentage will be heavily reduced.
* * * *
Fitzgeralds’ Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine, Vic.)
Added
Net to Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1894.. £5139 121 per cent. =£sooo £139 £7,101
1895.. 4690 llj ~ „ 4500 190 7,291
1896.. 4655 10 „ „ 4000 655 7,946
1897.. 4735 10 „ „ 4000 735 8,681
1893.. 4701 10 „ „ 4000 701 9,332
1899.. 6457 10 „ „ 4000 2457 11,839
1900.. 6353 10 „ „ 4000 2353 14,192
1901.. _ 7107 10 ~ ~ 4000 3107 17,299
£lO,OOO of Reserves added to Capital, making
it £50,000 and reducing Reserves to .. 7,299
1902.. 6814 10 per cent. = 5000 1814 9,113
1903.. 6268 10 „ „ 5000 1268 10,331
1904.. 6250 10 ~ „ 5000 1250 11,631
1905.. 6423 10 „ „ 5000 1423 13,054
Some further comparisons to show how things are
shaping:—
1900. 1904. 1905.
Overdrafts and other
liabilities to public .. £B,OOO £6,000 £6,500
Freeholds .. .. .. 20,644 27,891 26,966
Mortgages and bills held .. 17,045 21,175 22,617
Stocks and plant .. .. 13,929 11,901 12,827
Sundr.y Debtors .. .. 10,477 8,552 8,469
Cash balances .. .. 2,098 610 1,175
Gross Trading Profit, .. 9,223 8,916 8,849
Management .. .. 2,870 2,666 2,426
Good features of this unusually profitable brewing busi-
ness are the comparative smallness of liabilities to public
and the diminishing amount of “sundry debtors,” which
latter seems to show that ample provision is made for bad
debts. Gross trading profit falls a little, but management
expenses keep that item company. On shareholders’
funds net profits show an excellent £lO Bs. 4d. per cent,
return.
The CASTLEMAINE BREWERY Co. (Melbourne):
Writtpn Re
/.rr
' e > „ fc ?i _ ®™f n i s ’nq 7 eA p? 7 non #0,177
] per cent. = £3750 £17,000 £94,177
, ' ‘ ” ” 2LYY mow
18Jo " 9 > 248 6 •> » 7500 73 > 5Jt> 20,863
97 000 ? on
jjR ” y'', Jg!) q’?«n
jS;;!” U-.j VXaa
189 J" 0,040 Nil Reserves
lnnri nous' 01 „„ *. omn ,
J 9 ™ •• H,067 2J per cent. = 3125 2,500 3,922
J'J 4 " 7’™ l ” ” ™ _ UU a 474
" 1401 ° ” lg'i ” °" OU 9 89''
” 4 251, Nil 8 599 5 551
1905 .’. fi’,263 4 per cent. = 5000 l’»00 5]314
The iinprovement in the position isn't by any means
rapid, and co. won’t help matters by' declaring a dividend
which calls for a slice out of the poor little reserves. And
a part of even these reserves is none too certain ; for
£2OOO is now put to suspense, which will probably turn
out to be the half-way pub. on the road to Writing Off.
Some other details
1900 1904 1905
Debenture debt .. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Other debts to public .. 55,833 34,958 32,010
Breweries, plant, &c„ .. 83,569 87,392 85,371
Hntels - &C 107 > 686 127 - 152 122 ’ 880
Advances and trade debtors 58,16*2 34,547 33,55)6
Stocks and plant .. .. 34,777 18,832 17,373
r , y r « 34fi 7 174
’
Liabilities to the public (overdrafts, &c.) are being re-
duced, and that is the best feature. Advances are con-
siderablv less than they were ; but as hotels stand in at a
heavier figure, it looks probable that the two items are
unpleasantly related. The freehold hotels, &c.,.cost
£131,989; from th's £10,60S has in all been written off ; and
seein » . tbat l as far as <f n be traced over £70,000 of these
properties date from the early nineties, it seems probable,
too, that writing-off here calls for a great deal more atten-
tion - The debenture debt carries 5 per cent ; but as far
as can be made out (the co bunches several items, and
niakes it difficult to make out much) the capital.in the
bllslness is not earning 4)- per cent. Altogether, in spite
of the larger net profit disclosed the position isn’t cheer-
f|il. A large bulk of the dead-horse which the boom left
the premises is st in awa iti n g removal, and the Tas-
manian beer-competition, and the hunger of shareholders
for a bite whenever profits are shown, don’t make the
remova i anv easier.
'* * * * *
Chasing opal at White Cliffs (N.S.W.) you can
get nearly as much excitement, and draw nearly as many
f )lankS) a J yoll can in lookin „ f( ) r winners in a & e lb. Cup
sweep. Any time you are liable to have your back-yard
pegged out; so, even if it’s the most hopeless-looking
patch of sand, you peg it out yourself, and put down some
sort of a hole. A while back, seeing the pegging coming
his way, a man pegged out his own humpy, put down a
hole in his fowl-yard, and got a shock when he found
opal. Next-door people pegged their fowl-yard, too, and
that was the start of the most successful bit of gem-find-
ing the field has had for many months. But the market
is wretchedly sick.
Sydney Exchange Co.
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1899 ..£lO6B 7p.c.=£1050 £lB £15,616
Dec., 1899 .. 1389 7 „ „ 1050 339 15,955
June, 1900 ..849 7 „ ~ 1050 15,754
Dec., 1900 .. 915 7 „ „ 1050 15,619
June, 1901 .. 498 7 „ „ 1050 15,067
Dec., 1901 .. 1219 7 ~ ~ 1050 169 15,236
June, 1902 .. 701 6 „ ~ 900 15,037
Dec., 1902 .. 1174 6„ ~ 900 274 15,311
June, 1903 ..837 6 „ „ 900 15,248
Dec., 1903 .. 1395 6 „ ~ 900 495 15,743
.Tune, 1994 ..986 6 „ „ 900 86 15,829
Dec., 1904 .. 1269 6 „ „ 900 369 16,198
June, 1905 .. BSI 6 „ ~ 900 16,179
Though less than for the first half of last year, the earnings
are better than the average for this period ; and on the
whole 12 months profits show £4 14s. 6d. per cent, on
funds. The 6 per cent. div. is being barely earned, and
nothing is being written off premises (£70,000), or even
furniture and fittings. The co. carries £21,000 of deben-
tures ; and that fact adds some additional weight to the
suspicion that the div. is still too high.
* * * *
Mt. B >ppy Birthday, a gold show of some pro-
mise near Mt. Boppy, has had a struggle for past six or
seven years, but now gets out of the syndicate stage.
New co. is in 14,400 shares ; old holders get 7200 paids,
and 7200 are issued as pref. shares, with a liability of 10s.
Shuffle gives £9O per month for development. There is a
supposed rich shoot at 70ft. level, which for some reason
the syndicate didn’t attend to, and co. will see what the
battery has to say about it.
* ♦ * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: The saddest sight in
White Cliffs is the speakers at work round the mouths of
the shafts that are on opal. Men, women, and scores of
half-starved-looking children, dressed in cast-offs and rags,
sit round on the dumps, waiting for the bullock-hide
buckets to come up with mullock. As soon as a bucket is
emptied, there is a fierce scramble to hand-scrape as much
of the dirt as possible into each one’s own sphere of influ-
ence. Women frequently scrape as much dirt as they can
under their petticoats for safety. Then it is quite common
to see children outside the circle rake some of the dirt
from under the protecting petticoats. Fights are not at
all rare. The lurid language used by mere children (who
ought to be at school), during the jostling and jerking
and squabbling, is really awful. All round the mullock
kneel the speakers in a compact ring, with heads down,
feverishly raking over, with hands and blunt knives, all
the dirt they can grab, and searching for stray bits of
opal that have been overlooked by the gougers below.
Occasionally one makes a valuable find ; but generally the
returns are miserable, barely enough to keep body and
soul together.
.Chiltern Valley Consols, Chiltern (Vic.) is like
a hen with one chick, because it has a couple of hundred
on the right side of profit and loss account. Directors say
that the mine manager’s report says that the two years’
supply of wash cut up is payable. That is rather
a strained reading of the report—“ and judging from the
prospects obtained while driving, this ground should
prove profitable when under blocking operations.” There
is a difference between the two statements, though the
directors may not have seen it when they drafted their
report. Everyone knows that drives don’t always give
an exact indication of the worth of wash, and that might
have made the board a little less dogmatic.
* * •» •
Melbourne Herald’s reprints from the Morning
Herald of 50 years back are often interesting to aged
diggers and old bowed-down fossickers and the like.
Thus, on July 7, ’55, it was notified that a coach service
was about to be started to Eltham, Diamond Creek and
Queenstown (Caledonia diggings). To-day Eltham boasts
a very decrepit railway service, while the other town-,
ships have hardly advanced an inch —Caledonia, in fact,
has receded, the present inhabitants being merely a few
fruit growers and half-a-dozen Chows, who still turn over
the long since abandoned mullock heaps. Templestowe
is also mentioned as having got its post-office opened. It
is but 10 miles from the G.P.0., and to-day it still has the
same post-office and the same coach service running
through to that other abandoned diggings—Anderson’s
Creek.
• * • •
The directors of the White Star mine, Walhalla,
lately asked the Bent Government to construct a road
thereabouts, in consideration of the fact that the share-
holders had spent £lB,OOO whilst waiting patiently for
dividends. If the mine were a prosperous concern it
would make its own road, but, being in a despondent
state, it reckons it has a claim upon the Treasury.
Minister M‘Leod didn’t see how a road to a profitless mine
was going to advance the settlement of Victoria, but be
offered to go halves in the cost. The directors went away
considering the offer.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
When colds and influenza rage,
They add to life a dismal page,
They make us all look twice our age—
And scatter death around,
’ I'is then we find a friend so sure,
In William Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Wh <-h, always certain, always pure,
Will save us many a pound.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R'. GE 'INERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
GO TO HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
you want real good stamps, send
FREP. HA6EN,
I S o
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth St., SYDNEY,
Austral.a:i Stamps Bcugiit. Prise Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Senator Keating has a Bill before the
Senate securing the Commonwealth a monopoly
of wireless telegraphy services.
New South Willis Government ought to
pass an Act making land agents “gentlemen by
Act of Parliament.” They’ve proved their right
to rank with solicitors.
Australia may not have much of an army,
but it learned last week that it has 8 colonels, 46
lieutenant-colonels. 98 majors, 316 captains, and
723 lieutenants and second lieutenants. Which is
something to go on with.
Ex-Premier Philp, of Queensland, has
been telling his State that “the rapid changes of
the Government of the Commonwealth were un-
paralleled in history.” Pity the ignorant old man
doesn’t learn some history.
The oldest of the very few glass-bottle
works in Sydney was advertised for sale by the
Sheriff last week. The proprietor made a good
stand against Freetrade; but had to succumb
finally, and the Australian larrikin —made so by
the "Preetrade which refuses him a job—can now
bash his neighbor with an imported bottle.
The late Reid Government left out of its
programme all mention of the defence of Aus-
tralia from that foreign attack which must come
some day, and explained that defence was crowded
out. It seems also to have been crowded out of
the Deakin programme. The personal explana-
tion and the stonewall and the sectarian insect
crowd out many large things these days.
The usual N.S.W. unemployed deputation
dropped in last week, and
Mr. Carruthers was urged to initiate all possible works
(with loan money, of course) as speedily as practicable, so
as to provide for the unemployed.
And every year about £11,000,000 worth of work
is being turned away from N. S. W. ’s door to supply
employment for foreigners.
The inquiry of N.S.W. Lands Commission
into the granting of the Gorian leases has aroused
the curiosity of Narrabri folk with regard to the
action of the Lands Department in revoking the
Bungle Gully Settlement Lease area a few days
before it was to have become available, and the
subsequent granting of the splendid bit of country
to a political land agent as an improvement lease.
The Commission might look into that matter.
If there is any truth in Nielsen, M.L.A.,
the N.S.W. State Labor party is a poor thing.
According to Nielsen, its ambition in the direction
of breaking up big estates goes no further than
levying the present Id. in the £ land-tax on the
first 5000 acres, and half a farthing more on each
succeeding 5000 acres. In the best parts of N. S. W.
5000 acres iaajnonstrous area for any man to hold.
There are said to be 30,000 unemployed in
N.S.W., and,.meanwhile, 20 locomotives are being
built for N.S.W. in the States to supply work for
Americans, and a big dredge is being built in
England to supply work for Englishmen. It is
vagu ly proposed to build the next batch of loco-
motives locally, but there are delays, so it is
decided to borrow about £250,000 a month to keep
things going.
The Sydney gas monopoly, after confessing
to the usual huge profits and declaring the usual
lusty dividend, announced that it would have re-
duced the price of gas had it not been for Federa-
tion and the “ trend of Socialistic legislation.” So
even the extra bloating of the profits of this mono-
poly is set down to “ Socialistic legislation.” The
Gas Co. says if it hadn’t been for Socialistic legis-
lation it wouldn’t have made so much money.
Vic. Legislative Assembly last week passed
the Women s Suffrage Bill for the eighth time—it
has considered the question no less than fourteen
times altogether—and seven times the House
of Landlords has uttered some unintelligible
remark in its stomach about hasty legislation, and
thrown the measure into the dustbin. Quite
likely it will repeat the performance once again,
though the dustbin looks somewhat crowded now.
George Reid, some time ago :
We all hope that some day Australia will have a great
woollen industry, but that can only come when we are
not so well off. In the plenitude of time, when our
millions become tens of millions, we shall have a crop of
misery "chick will solve the difficulty in regard to cheap
manufactures.
In the bright lexicon of Freetrade and Free
Competition, misery is the only road to manu-
factures.
It would be almost worth while for Aus-
tralia to send all local Tories, who could, on exam-
ination, prove themselves of any intelligence,
through Asia. They would come back to a man
White Australians. Kalgoorlie Miner has been
interviewing Mr. J. W. Fimister, ex-Mayor of
that city, after a tour of Asia
I have returned imbued with the idea that Australia
must be kept as white as possible. . . . After what I have
seen in my travels, I could arrive at no other conclusion
than that a White Australia policy must be supported at
all hazards and costs. . . . During my visit to Singapore,
1 met a member of the Queensland State Legislature, who
was with a friend, Mr. Rosser, of Toowoomba. They had
studied various aspects of the White Australia question.
Mr. Rosser, who had on leaving Queensland been strongly
opposed to the White Australia idea, had returned with
an altogether opposite view. He said to me: “No more
black labor for me after what I have seen at Singapore.”
A small, a very small, instalment of the
reforms promised by the Carruthers Government,
is Attorney-General Wade’s Small Debt Amend-
ment Bill, extending the jurisdiction of petty
courts, and giving further means of recovery to
plaintiffs. But even under it the court fees are too
nigh—ss. for the summons, and the bailiff serving
is entitled to mileage. In Scotland, the Small
Debts Court’s jurisdiction is up to £l2, the sum-
mons costs 2s. Id.,and it can be served by regis-
tered letter.
“ C.H.R.” writes in anger :
Recently the Tasmanian Premier announced the policy
of his Government, as other Premiers have been doing for
years, and as Evans’ successors will continue doing in the
same way to the same lack of purpose. Nothing satis-
factory ever follows these statements, and as far as the
public is concerned their utterance is waste of breath.
That the robust old deficit is £lOO,OOO, or £6,000,000,
doesn’t impress anyone. Whether this public apathy is
caused by the vacant expression in the eye of the man
who announces his hopeless policy, or by the shocking
reiteration of the deficit, matters not. So long as pota-
toes are £5 per ton, the future announcement that the
deficit has grown to £60,000,000, uttered in the same kind
of voice by the same variety of half-dead Premier, will
produce exactly the same emotionless results as now.
Lawyer Jack Want lately took a flying trip
through the Cairns district, and after a survey of
the country from a railway carriage came on to
Brisbane and told the anti-Federal Telegraph
that Federation was ruining Queensland (method
not stated). Yet, curiously enough, Queensland
is now attracting people away from N.S.W. In
the three months to June 30 the people who left
N.S.W. for Queensland were 659 more than those
who travelled the other way. And Queensland
has just managed to get its finances square and to
dispense with borrowing, which it never seemed
able to do before Federation. Did Mr. Want
make the mistake of taking the diminution in the
importation of Japanese girls as a sign of ruin ?
LEARNING TO FISH.
N.S.W. Fisheries Commission has decided to again urge upon the Government the necessity and wisdom of
establishing schools for fishermen along the coast, where any young fellow who proposes to adopt fishing as a
profession can obtain the necessary technical education.
TEACHER: “ Now Johnny Smith, what would you say when you got home if you caught a three-
inch yellow tail?”
J.S.: “ Say it was a six-pound schnapper, and it. broke my line and got away."
TEACHER : “ Good boy. Go to the top.”
The N.S.W. member is so fagged-out with
looking after his constituent's culvert and sitting
on Select Committees appointed to inquire why a
small official named Smith spoke harshly to a sub-
ordinate named Bill, that he hasn’t time to look
at new measures. The Local Government Bill,
after being before the House for quite a while,
and making hardly any progress, was hung up for
a fortnight so that members might snatch a
moment from running little errands for con-
stituents, and read it.
Mr. Hughes has an excellent Bill dealing
with money-lenders before N.S.W. Council. It is
provided that, where there is any suggestion that
a money-lending transaction is inequitable, a judge
may rip open the ivhole affair, beginning with the
first loan, and make an order for an equitable
settlement, annulling, if necessary, all contracts.
The money-lender must register and must not use
any but his registered name. Also no money-
lender nor his jackal may tout for the custom of
infants.
Westralian Arbitration Court seems to
have a lot of sympathy with the London Jew, and
a lot of contempt for Australian industries. In a
recent decision it has laid down the law that no
overtime at all shall be paid to any engineer
employed by a mine manager, but that an engineer
employed by any one else shall receive as over-
time 50 per cent, extra on week days and 100
per cent, on Sundays. So the Australian
manufacturer of machinery, &c., who produces
something in the country is to be penalized, while
the absentee who gouges the golden eyes out of the
country is to be encouraged with liberty to under-
pay.
Sydney Telegraph (27/7/’O5) calling for a
stonewall in the Australian Parliament: —
Mr. Reid secured the adjournment of the debate.
To-morrow he will speak for a couple of hours. The
Government is aiming at the suppressing of speeches so
as to hurry the debate to a termination. Tactics of this
sort are of a primitive order of politics, and usually fail.
The debate, it must be remembered, wasn’t about
any item of business. It didn’t advance a single
public matter one iota. It was just a dreary,
general throwing of mud, which led to nothing.
And the Government’s desire to get to work
struck the Telegraph as being “of a primitive
order of politics.”
Vic. Premier Bent tells Parliament that he
will resign office rather than give up his
State brick-yard proposal. Which is some-
thing to that Fatman’s credit, as the State brick-
yard is the best weapon he has against the
extortions of the Brick Trust. There is in Bent a
fondness for a sharp deal in business; and he
takes as much interest in scoring a point for the
State as he does for himself. In fact, Bent is
never happier than when he reckons he has “taken
down ” somebody on behalf of the State for a few
thousands, or has prevented someone getting at
the State.
Premier Bent, of Victoria, is seeking Par-
liamentary authority for his State brickworks’
proposal by putting down a vote of £9600 therefor
in his Surplus Revenue Bill. This prevents the
House of Landlords jumping on the enterprise—
the Landlords may suggest amendment or may re-
ject the whole Bill, but they are hardly likely to
throw out the entire Surplus Revenue Bill, and
their suggestions may be ignored. Iceberg Irvine,
also M‘Ketchup and Boyd and the useless Peacock
doubtless foresaw this when they urged Thomas to
legalise the brickmaking scheme in a separate
Bill; but Bent passed them by with a bear-like
jest and took the wiser way.
It becomes more and more apparent that
Deakin, whose direct following hardly amounts to
a quorum in the House of Reps., should not have
taken office. When he had ejected Reid, and the
Labor party refused to.form any definite league on
a Protectionist basis, he should have sat back and
let Watson be sent for. When Watson wanted
his aid he should have simply said “ The price of
my support is your adoption of High Protection.”
By giving that answer to each leader in turn
Deakin could have forced the abolition of Party
Government, which is the cause of the present
deadlock, or have forced the Labor party to find a
fiscal policy. He could throw out every Govern-
ment which didn’t put Protection in the front of
its programme, and by making the present situa-
tion impossible he could drive the country to find
a remedy.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers reckons he
has done something very large and patriotic in
ordering the roof of the new Sydney railway
station locally, though it will cost 5 per cent,
more than it could be imported for. Of course it
will cost 5 per cent. more. Rent is about 25 per
cent, higher here than in England. Interest is
higher. The curate’s stipend is higher. Railway
rates are higher. The members who sit behind
Carruthers and keep him in office get over 30,000
per cent, more salary than similar persons in
England. Carruthers gets about 500 per cent,
more than a solicitor of his calibre could get in
England. If all these people will come down to
the English level, then a railway station roof will
do likewise. Carruthers can’t expect roofs to
come down while landlords and solicitors remain
up.
Fatjlding’s Medical Journal joins in the
cry against the outrageous slanderers of Australia.
It asks : “ Cannot a law be framed to deal with
the libellers of the land ? ”
From a Crow-eater :
Before the numbers went up in S.A. Assembly one of
the wild jests of the House was the way each party
button-holed S. J. Mitchell, and assured him that the
other crowd had basely overlooked his claims to the
Attorney-Generalship. Neither party felt equal to saying
definitely that it would make S. j. Mitchell Attorney-
General, but each felt equal to being sorr}’ for the way
the other lot was treating S. J. Mitchell. As for S. J.
Mitchell himself, he became so dizzy with sympathy that
he would have hung on to almost an}’ portfolio to hold
him up.
“ Huffin-Guffin ” : The S. Aus. elections
happened just when Thomas Bent of Victoria
was at Hamilton (Vic.) opening a new wing of the
local hospital. (They had to pull down a panel of
the hospital fence to let him through, but that is
another matter.) Bent told the Hamilton people
that the result of the S.A. elections meant that
fully 25 per cent, was taken off the value of their
property. Yet in that same squatter-encircled
town more buildings are being erected just now
than ever before during my 20-years’ acquaintance
with it, which makes me think that even the pro-
Eutty owners don’t believe all the rubbish talked
y themselves and their friends and their Bent.
“O’B.” : Be the pensioning of ex-Minis-
ters. Igo farther and say ex-members of Parlia-
ment of all degrees should be pensioned when,
after long service', they lose their seats. Politics
are not money-making for members or Ministers;
whatever comes goes—it must go. I’m talking of
honest men. The other kind should be sent to
gaol. When an honest, hard-working M.P. loses
his seat, calamity is no word for it. If he hasn’t
money, it’s Sheol. To fall out of the Parliamen-
tary swirl and drop flat on nothing, with empty
pockets, indifferent friends, and industrious
habits rotted away, is an agony no servant of the
people who was ever worth his salt should be
driven to endure.
‘ ‘ Mr. Reid pointed out amid cheers that
the agricultural industries hadn’t asked for fid”
(Sydney paper). Quite true. All the agricultural in-
dustry wants, in N.S. W. at all events, isits rent re-
duced or its selection reappraised ; also seed-wheat;
likewise an indirect bonus of about £700.000 a
year by having its produce carried at that much
below the rates charged to other people ; and all its
roads, bridges, and other works done by the State ;
and to have the town artisan, who has to pay for
his own roads and works, and in a great measure
for the agriculturists’ roads and works as well,
taxed to make up the railway shortage caused by
carrying agricultural produce at almost nothing
per ton. Sixpence is no good to that kind of
industry.
A lament from Launceston Examiner :
The Socialistic plan is not to part again with the fee
simple but to make all tenants of the Crown. We would
again put a plain question to our Labor friends : Would
they take the same pride in their homes as they do now
if they were only rented from the Crown ?
The other question naturally is : What pride can
our Labor friends, or any other friends, take in
their homes when they are rented from the
V.D.L. (Jo., or from somebody named Dobson, or
from Manifold, or Clarke, or Chirnside, or from
the S.A. Co., or the A.A. Co., or the Peel River
Co., or any other landlord? Every time the
blatant Tory rises to say that the State’s tenant
should be allowed to acquire the freehold, some
good Democrat, in his enthusiasm to go one
better, should propose as an amendment that
everybody’s tenant should be allowed to acquire
the freehold, and to buy out his landlord compul-
sorily at 20 years’ purchase—the money payable
by easy instalments carrying 4 per cent, 'interest.
Compare the tremendous amount of con-
sideration which N.S.W. Government had to give
to the proposed Bill to extend the powers of the
Lands Commission with Carruthers’ promptitude
in bringing in a Bill to scatter £1,fi67,4fi1. No
sooner had the daily papers been forced by public
opinion to turn on their little tin Joe than the
Ministry rushed in a Bill to give every country
member or thereabouts a bridge or another bit of
a railway or 20 chains of metalled road. After
Dacey had denounced it as "a drag-net to catch
all Constituencies,” MTarlane, Hurley, and all
the other roads-and-bridges patriots said that that
was just the -sort of fly-paper they liked, “and
the House went into Committee of Ways and
Means, and agreed to the motion without de-
bate.” Whereupon “ the Bill was passed through
all its stages without further discussion and with-
out amendment.” After that another large lOU
was thrown into the cradle for the baby to cut its
teeth with and get fat upon. But ‘ the shaky
Ministry felt safer.
The proposal to organise a citizen defence
force for Australia on the Swiss system induced
ex-Minister Dugald Thomson to hold forth a little
while ago to his constituents, and explain to them
that the burden of such a thing would be “far
beyond Australia’s resources.” Yet, apart from
the cowardice and incapacity of persons like
Dugald, it is hard to see why this should be.
Australia has a larger population than Switzer-
land. It has nearly live times the revenue. It is
alleged to be much richer—certainly it ought to
be. A part from the pathetic lack of all enterprise
and pluck among a crowd of old women of the
Thomson variety, there is no visible reason why
Australia should not provide for its own defence
quite as well as Switzerland, which can put
500,000 well-armed men into the field, or Chili,
which, with a much smaller population than even
Switzerland, can defend itself with 400,000
armed men and nearly 20 war vessels. This coun-
try pays far too many politicians to tell it that it
can’t do things, and can’t afford things.


26/-
Post and
Duty Free
all over
the States,
Including
W.A.
■' SJ.
%
THE
CALLAGHAN
VIOI-KIO
BOOT
FOR
MEN.
The CALLAGHAN Black'}
VIGI-KID Lace BOOT, !
whole goloshed, made in j
pointed or medium toes, J
25|-
POST AND DUTY FREE, 26/-
We do not Pretend to sell Boots and Shoes
at Unwearable Prices.
The generally acknowledged Toughness and LONG WEAR of
our Boots and Shoes absolutely preclude the possibility of doing so.
The quality of endurance that leads to economy
COSTS MONEY IN ORDER TO SAVE IT.
jgg-Scnd for our splendidly ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, Post Free to you.
CALLAGHAN # SON, 395 George St., Sydney.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS^
m
m
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
■ Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
ransom’s^-- —<
\¥ STOPPING
1/-
Per Bottle
ALL CHEMISTS
& STORES
DECAYED
I Gives
InstahT relief
from pain
killslne nerVe
Fills up tfie
Cav’ity and
are
again useful.
Toothache Curbed
Post free from the Sole Proprietors.
Australian Drug C? L t? ,Sydney.
PLEASURE*? PROFIT.
Cyphers Incubators.
THESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
a new principle. The Regulator is simply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being- worked on the Hot
Air orinciple, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES, *'?" 8
241-243 Elizabeth-street, riel bourne.
THE LAST OF SIX
Price 6d. Post Free.
The Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2 6, Posted 2/9*' Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established ‘25 Years.
STAMP YOUR CLOTHING.
Just the
very thing
you want—
A RUBBER
STAMP,
with y our
name in any
style of
type, to-
gether with
bottle of
IN DELI BLE
MARKING
INK and
h an dsome
self - inking
PAD, as illustrated. This Most Useful Outfit Posted
Anywhere for 2/-, or 3 complete outfits for 5/-. If you
would like the Stamp very fancy send 1/6 extra, and I will
send you a very elaborate stamp with beautiful border,
with which you will be delighted.
; A. <J. SMITH, Toowoomba, Queensland.
MEMORY.
PELMAN’S SYSTEM.
A GOOD MEMORY is essential to success. It is
good memory that makes successful men and women
in every sphere of action. It is the possession of a good
memory that enables- the worker to profit by learning
and experience. The memory can be developed and im-
proved by proper training, just as the muscles of the
body are developed and strengthened by proper exercises.
A course of
PELMAN’S SYSTEM
—OF—
MEMORY TRAINING
will develop your memory to a surprising extent, and put
you on the right road. There is no one who cannot
benefit by the System which has earned the endorse-
ment of the most eminent practical men and women of
the day.
The 'System is taught by correspondence in a course of
Five Lessons.
Any persons of ordinary education can master it in six
weeks by half-an-hour’s daily study.
WHITE for FREE COPY of Mr. Pelman’s Booklet.
The Secretary,
PELMAN SCHOOL OP MEMORY TRAINING,
BOX 402, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
England—4 Bloomsbury-street, London ; America—9ol
Whitehall Buildings, New York ; . Germany—9 Mozartstr,
Munich ; France—lo 9 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris ; Africa—
Lynne Buildings, Durban, Natal.
MALTHOID
ROOFING - DAMPCOURSE.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“Ifit is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”-
■Marcus Aurelius.
QUALITY BEFORE
quantity or price is the only reason-
able view to take in the choice of a
D'ampcourse, ■whether for a residence
or for a business building. In the life
of your building practically
The basis of
Our Manufactures
is a Mineral,
HYDRO-CARBON,
100 p.c. PURE.
EVERYTHING
depends on the quality o£ the Damp-
course, as moisture plays havoc with all
building materials. Malthoid Damp*
course is permanent and effective, and
does not entail an expensive outlay-
■WILLIAM BALDWIN, Aust. Rep.
TILE PARAFFINE PAINT.COi., 117 Pitt. Street,'Sydney, N.S.W.
W. S. FRIEND & CO.,' Sydney, N.S.W. JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
JAMES W. JACK, Wellington, N.Z. 'WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO., Perth, W r .A.
NORMAN CO., Adelaide, S.A. G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
E. T. HARRIS, Townsville, Q. ' EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch.;- N.Z.
HEDLEY, BUTTON, Launceston, Tas. JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
• • THOMPSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE. N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
WEST? 178 2
GENI
Assurance Company of London
Assurances effected on Buildings and Contents; also on WOOLSIIEDS, HOMESTEADS, and
other Station Properties, at LOWEST RATES.
MOTE.—Losses arising from Bush Fires, Lightning, and
Explosion of Coal Qas are cowered by this Company.
Annual Insoma, £1,500,000. Reserve Fund and Security, £4,000,000.
Has issued the LARGEST FIRE POLICY ever written, viz., for -£3,474,030;
Premium, £33,821.
tz%- Cash Sonus of 10 per cent, allowed off all Premiums.
117 PITT ST*, SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers),
WILLIAM N, PARMER,
MANABER-.
HARDY’S
700 Frizes.
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
MOORE HOUSE,
16 & 18 Cast/ereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone 4375.
The most perfectly appointed establishment in Australasia for treatment by
MASSAGE, HYDRO-ELECTRIC BATHS,
VIBRATIONS, LIGHT BATHS,
and all modern methods of Light, Heat, and Electric Treatment. Comfortably
appointed Waiting and Rest Rooms for Ladies and Gentlemen.
homes if required. NOW OPEN . Inspection invited.
Patients attended at their own
Prop.—
ELECTROTHERAPY, Ltd.
G. L. N. HARVISON, M.R.P.S., R.D.S.,
Manager.
OSTRICH PLUMES
ILLER S-r
ms
m
Black, White, Creami
Natural, or Black
tipped with White.
57-
Length, 12 inches.
Post free.
The Feathers we offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Buy to-day, or write
forone. Seud Postal Note or Money
Order to John Mider.
scs
From the
Famous Farms
of South Africa.
Black, White.
C'l't am, Natural,
or Black and
White mixed.
(15 inches)
10/6
Post
Free
There is practi-
cally nothing
more becoming
to tlie average woman than the
soft setting given her face and
head by really good feathers.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST POST FREE.
m
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Farms of Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length 10 inches..
3 for 10/-
There’s a•' charm about
Miller’s Ostrich Tips no
other trimming can impart.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length 1J yards.
<5O
*
m
This New
Fashionable Mount,
2 Tips with Osprey,
Black, Creatn, or
Black tipped with
White.
3/
The Bunch.
Post tree.
We make this SPECIAL
OFFER to advertise out
Ostrich Tips. Write to-
day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Corner Strand Arcade, PITT ST., SYDNEY
Also at Cor, Bourke and Swanston Sts., Melbourne. Mention Tub
Missing Friends.
HEALY- MINNIE (married name un-
known), grand-daughter of late Patrick
Healy, Gurner-street, St. Kilda, Victoria,
Write to FARMER & FARMER,
g olicitors, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
IF THOMAS JOHNSON SANDERSON,
son of Isaac Sanderson, will communicate
with The Trustees, Executors & Agency Co..
Ltd.; of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne, he will
hear of something to his advantage.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE_ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Commander. i Sails.
w R.N.R. Aug-. 5
W. C. Sunonds .. Sept. 1
*’ •C. Lingham ..Sept. 22
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. ..
CAPETOWN and NATAL i! £ js 13s to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
n 6ES ? S V WILLS > GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
-Tll
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mnl uni Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices . . 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M L C
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M P
Resident. Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461- assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses —eouitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 At 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.p., A.1.A., General Manager.
national gankT
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending- to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,226 15 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 o
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East’
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. • Jas
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
__ General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
file Qank of Qortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq
n mT*? AK ! Y ',, ■ j ( Messrs - Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. £7OO 000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled .. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) £370.000
"THE EXECUTORS
I AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures, ’ '
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £17,000 0 0
o directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq '■
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M P
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. latd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Borns (Burns,
Pliilp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessoi*, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Coyne ; Adelaide. W. n!
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Karqiiiiar. J. d. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 181 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
—THE— ~ "
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office ■
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Comp an;/
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,085,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,085,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. TI. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F.'T. Humpiiery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
A. H. K. Maxwell, Esq. W. L. Docker, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNFY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
CNORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
a,SK»«.
Sydney
1.30
p.m.
Ade-
laide
2 p.m
Steamer
Tons
Commander
‘GNEISENAU .
‘SEYDLITZ
Karlsruhe
'BARBAROSSA
‘SOHARNHORST
SOBl E. Malchow
8000 C. Hewers
5057; R. Hempel
10915 Langreuter
8131 L. Maass
Aug. 19 Aug. 26
Sep. 16 Sep. 23
Oct. 14 Oct. 21
Nov. lllNov. 18
Dee. 9 Dec. 16
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
m?°rTA t V >? NE J Four Weeks > via BRISBANE NEW
and NE^«UINEA Hi O M HONOKON G) KOBE
" sth AUGUST -
* P r!nz SK 0 300 tons - 2nd SEPTEMBER
‘ RINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 30th SEPTEMBER.
‘Twin Screw Steamers.
slrW Sea ' oin ,; Qualities Maximum Speed
Cuisine ClVirTrf’ For f CC , o , m " 10 ' lati ° n . Excellent
to the Agents F ° r fllrther P apply
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
ni Try It:
The Only Certain
Ml oust ache Productf .
Capillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand
Price, 108. 6cl.
SOLB AGENTS.
Th» Result.
CRAIG & AITKEIM.
House. 654 GEORGE
N.S.W. Barber's Supplv
STREET, SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LIME.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC,
and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 30 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetonm. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
*MILTIAL)ES
MORAVIAN
SOPHOCLES
T. F. Spalding
N. Allan ..
H. A. Schleman
Noon, Aug. 25
Noon, Sept. 9
Noon, Sept. 20
Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 ..£l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
C! n;-A. 3XT 3C CJ S.S. Co. -A.. anti A.. T. I w Tn,
R lUI t= c-. r- TWIN ‘SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
i1.1V1.53. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, AUGUST 21.
PAST D-tcccZ/i! ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
ST pa SSENOER SERVICE to AMERICA. CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO EMGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
THROUGH
PICTURESQUE
ISLANDS.
A?w?i n f a s°£\f'? Dnfcch Easfc todies ! The sister ships
, , J 1 hruthrie (2338 tons) leave Sydney alternately every
month on regular cruises through these tropical seas. These
conv'enTeru Wlth th ° la,iest eleotr >cal and cold storage
throughout r’h *t hUS en ®’J, l ' Jurists the utmost comfort
&SS&2£SiZi
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Glasses - of
Security. —-
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
a
WE
aaiNnooriia
SIIIS
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
ZKT-S.'W.
Iflont de pete fio., [M.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Royal Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. _ £457 538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175’si2 10 0
Reserve Foi«D(ln vested in Government Stock) 65,000 0 0
__ , £698,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
16 Bi (inches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Building’s, Georg-e Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 1,000 000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in ’ *
terins of Bank of New Zealand Act
, /■ •• •• 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
.. £2,000,000
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
EXCURSION
to CANADA
—BY —
“AORANGI,”
7th August.
KF’ WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET Different Articles, comprising
, Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter) Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks) The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
I ish (gives the definition of your character—
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing-Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. Gel
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH BRITISH
OFFICES:
SOUTH BitITISH CHAMBERS, 12 Bridge St. f Svdnev
11 GE °- H ‘ MOORE > CHAS. i METCALfI Aslta’nt Jana"?'
One of the
.'Wealthiest Fire
and Marine Insur-
ance Companies
doing business in
Australia, and
noted for its
Promptness and
Liberality in
Settlements.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,,
FOR MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, Friday,
August 4.
S.S. Kanowna, Wednesday,
August 2.
BRISBANE, 1
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Wollowra, August 5.
S.S.lnnamincka, August 12.
J}est anil Cheapest It onto, to Gold /} elds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARTS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with ,'iia
, G^' c . rn,,len ''- calling at MELBOUBNE, AIDS.
PORT Q A ,, N , T ‘COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
„ . . oooKeu io uomDay, India. Cmna
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistanoe
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office!
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
p r jn C ip a i Agent.
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TIIB . .
“E. and JK.” UHE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
Tns Commander] Lea v (Sydney.
Steamer
AUSTRALIAN
EMPIRE
EASTERN
AUSTRALIAN
3.100
4500
3000
3000
W. G. McArthur.. August 16
P. T. Helms ..September 13
Winthrop Ellis ..October 18
W, G. McArthur.. November 8
EVJ-.RI vUN VeNIENOE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE
iiuD^D 0< !! l rnlr ln , 8 containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool and
fitted with Electric Fans. K 0 ’ ant *
and h the U U h .S b .°lm n efica! BPeoial rateBt ° Eur ° pe ° anada
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane! and Newcastle? ’
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
■■■■MM—— i' l —— "
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
ound one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAIV*
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS, TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfiold Parade.
ST. HILDA.
T H f hp te and VI LesI: ;Am' o inted Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
bv trlm. m ßmiL o rds er etcf nliCenSed h ° tels - Cit >’ i' hour
HABfy
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
®2»BtPSSB&i. Z32X ,S 7:, i
2 Guineas per Week. y y> or rrom
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


NEW SOUTH WALES PATRIOTIC FUND The Bank of North Queensland, Limited.
Report of Executive Committee for the Year 1904=1905,
Presented to, and adopted by, the General Committee
On WEDNESDAY, 19th JULY, 1905.
PURING the year 1904-05 the following meetings of the Fund have been held Annual Meeting of
General Committee, Ordinary Meeting of General Committee, ten Meetings of Executive
Committee. of Q enera j Committee the vacancies caused by the decease of the Hon.
Henry Copeland, Sir George R. Dibbs, and Mr. F. Bridges were filled by the appointments of Messrs.
Geo. S. Littlejohn, George Wall, and W. J. Turner. _ .
In consequence of Mr. Thos. Allwright Dibbs leaving Sydney for a trip to England it became
necessary to elect a Trustee and Honorary Treasurer in his stead, and at the meeting of the (reneral
Committee on 17th May, 1905, Mr. Lewis Potter Bain was elected.
At the meetings of the Executive Committee six absolutely new applications for relief were
received, to four of which assistance was granted. One hundred and twenty-five applications for
“ further assistance ” (some cases being before the Executive Committee on more than one occasion)
have been considered and dealt with.
The Executive Committee desire to place on record their appreciation of the assistance for investi-
gating applications given them by the authorities generally.
As provided for under By-law No. 8, a statement of receipts and expenditure has to be published
in the month of July in each year.
This statement, duly signed by the Trustees and audited by Mr. David Fell, C.A.A., Public
Accountant, is now placed before you, and on its adoption will be published as required by the
By-law.
AUGUSTUS F. ROBINSON,
Sydney, New South Wales, Chairman of Executive Committee.
30th June, 1905.
NEW SOUTH WALKS PATRIOTIC FUND.
Dr,
Statement of Receipts and Disbursements
from Ist July, 1904, to 30th Juno, 1905. Or.
RECEIPTS.
1904.
July Ist.
To Balance brought forward
1905.
June 30th.
To Interest Accrued
„ West Australian Patriotic Fund—repaid
~ Relief Fund Cheque re-deposited
£ s. d.
2,861 12 4
908 10 5
35 0 0
25 0 0
£3,830 2 9
1905.
June 30th.
To Balance brought down .. £2,609 9 7
~ Amount of Fixed Deposits
held by the Bank of New
South Wales (as per Cer-
tificate) 20,500 0 0
£23,109 9 7
DISBURSEMENTS.
1905.
June 30th. £ s. d. £ s. d.
By Relief Account (per minutes) 1,018 6 8
„ Salaries 150 0 0
„ Medical and Audit Fees .. 11 0 6
l6l 0 6
~ Advertising and Stationery.. 35 6 0
~ Petty Cash, Postage and Duty
Stamps 6 0 0
41 6 0
2,609 9 7
£3,830 2 9
Balance
Sydney, 30th June, 1905.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH,
LEWIS P. BAIN,
Trustees.
I hereby certify that I have examined the Books and Vouchers of the New South Wales Patriotic
Fund for the period from the Ist July, 1904, to 30th June, 1905 (with the exception of Vouchers not
produced, detailed as per list), and that the foregoing statement is in accordance therewith.
Fixed Deposit Receipts of various Banks, in the name of the Fund, and aggregating £20,500, are
held by the Bank of New South Wales, and have been certified to, together with the Balances to the
Credit of the Fund on the 30th June, 1905.
Sydney, Bth July, 1905. (Sgd.) DAVID FELL, C.A.A., Auditor.
Co-operating Wool & Produce Co., Sydney.
A BONA FIDE PASTORALISTS’ INSTITUTION.
Mr. Deakin
is a consistent advocate of
Protection, and is one of the
greatest of Australian speakers.
Argus Sauce
is consistent in the regularity
of its quality, and is the greatest
Sauce of Australia—or any
other country.
Try it yourself and see.
You’ll like it.
Send for Free Sample to —
BLOGC BROS.,
24-38 Spencer St., Melbourne*
NICOLE UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records
will fit any and every disc talking machine. ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NICOLEPHONES
Two Special Instruments,
“ The Colonial ” and
“ The New Standard.”
PT~ ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application. “*1
W. G. KING, Sole Agent, 316 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS COLtd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines A Water Tube Boilers, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., Ac.
Sole Agent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
THIRTY-FOURTH REPORT.
Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held at the Banking House,
Queen Street, Brisbane, on Friday, 21st July, 1905.
The net profits for the half-year, after deducting- rebate on Bills current, interest on Deposits, paying
all charges, and providing for Bad and Doubtful Debts, amounted to .. .. £2,26113 4
To which was added the amount carried forward from last half-year .. -.. .. 163 12 6
Giving an available balance of £2,425 5 10
Which has been distributed as follows
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 2£ per cent, per annum £1,250 0 0
~ Income Tax on above .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 75 5 10
~ Reserve Fund (making £20,000) 1,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward to next half-year L. .. 100 0 0
£2,425 510
For and on behalf of the Board,
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND L™-
30th JUNE, 1905.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits .. .. .. .. .. ..£300,055 14 1
Treasury Note Account .. .. .. 33,333 0 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities .. .. 28,089 11 11
£361,478 6 0
Capital ..£350,000 0 0
Less Reserve
Liability.. 250,000 0 0
—— £lOO,OOO 0 0
Reserve Fund 19,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 2,425 5 10
£121,425 5 10
£482,903 11 10
■ ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash Balances .. .. £72,522 14 3
Treasury Notes on Hand .. .. .. 12,786 0 0
Remittances in Transit to Branches and
Agents 20,846 10 2
Government Stock ~ 25,500 0 0
£131,655 4 5
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due to
the Bank 325,485 16 11
Bank Premises, &c, ~ 25,762 10 6
£482,903 11 10
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Or.
To Salaries, Rent, and other charges at Head
Office, twelve Branches and one Agency.. £6,045 17 3
~ Interest paid and accrued on Deposits
and Treasury Note Account .. .. 3,496 2 2
„ Balance .. .. .. 2,425 510
£11,967 5 3
By Balance from last half-year .. .. £163 12 6
~ Gross Amount of Profit for half-year .. 11,803 12 9
£11,967 5 3
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
£19,000 0 0
£19,000 0 0
By Balance £lB,OOO 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 1,000 0 0
£19,000 0 0
Audited and found correct. —
THOS. B. STEELE,
G. O. BEARDMOKE,
}
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet, made up to the 30th June, 1905, and report that we find the
several items therein stated to conform to the Balances at Head Office, and to the Balance Sheets furnished by the
various Branches, the latter being certified to by the respective Managers and Accountants.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane on the 30th
ult., and hereby certify that we have found them correct.
We further certify that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is full and fair, properly drawn up, and exhibits a true
and correct view of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the Books on the 30th June, 1905.
Brisbane, 10th J uly, 1905.
THOS. B. STEELE, \
G. O. BROADMORE, /
Auditors.
the ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
-LiniTED.-=
THIRTY-NINTH REPORT, Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders,
held at the Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, on Thursday, 20th July, 1905.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interest on Deposits,
providing for Contingencies, payment of all charges, and reducing valuation of the
Bank Furniture and Sittings, amounted to .. ~ .. £9,672 16 9
To which is to be added the amount carried forward from last Half-year 781 18 6
Giving an available balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. £10,454 15 3
Which the Directors recommended should be distributed as follows :
To Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 3£ per cent, per annum on Ordinary and
Preference Shares
~ Income Tax
~ Reserve Fund
~ Balance to be carried forward to next half-year
8,020 11 6
442 6 9
1,000 0 0
991 17 0
During the Half-year South Brisbane Branch was closed.
£10,454 15 3
By Order of the Board,
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET of the ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED,
30th JUNE, 1905,
Capital paid up ..
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss ..
LIABILITIES.
.. £457,538 10 0
.. 64,000 0 0
.. 10,454 15 3
Bills Payable .. .. 16,178 18 8
Liability to Treasury for
Notes held in reserve.. 33,500 0 0
Deposits and other Lia-
bilities 868,534 8 7
531,993 5 3
918,213 7 3
£1,450,206 12 6
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and Cash
at Bankers .. .. £184,232 18 11
Bullion 22,432 19 10
Treasury Notes on hand.. 39,687 0 0
Government Stock .. 76,980 14 3
323,333 13 0
Bank Premises, Furniture, &c 62,247 10 5
Bills Discounted and all other Debts due
to the Bank 1,064,625 9 1
£1,450,206 12 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, 30™ JUNE, 1905.
To salaries, Rent and other
Expenses at Head Office
and 16 Branches .. .. £9,430 6 4
Interest paid and accrued
on Fixed Deposits, Rebate
and Exchange Paid .. 10,860 6 0
£20,290 11 4
„ Balance 10,454 15 3
£30,745 6 7
By Balance brought forward £7Bl 18 6
~ Gross Profit for the half-year .. 29,963 8 1
£30,745 6 7
RESERVE FUND
To Balance..
£65,000 0 0
£65,000 0 0
By Balance invested in Government Stock. .£64,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 1,000 0 0
....... . , GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.1.A.Q.l
Audited and found correct. c _ A CLARKE, A.S.A.A., Eng-. /
Brisbane, 17th July, 1905.
Auditors.
P. L. CARDEW, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
We have examined the foregoing Aggregate Balance Sheet, made up to 30th June, 1905, and report that we find the
several items therein stated to conform to the Balances in the General Ledger at Head Office, and to the Balance
Sheets furnished by the Branches ; these latter being certified to by the respective Managers and Accountants.
We have counted the Cash, and examined the Bills held by the Bank at the Head Office in Brisbane, on the 30th
ultimo, and hereby certify that we have found them correct. The Securities held at the Head Office have, at the
request of the Directors, been examined by Messrs. Chambers and McNab, Solicitors to the Bank, and we have seen
their certificate to the effect that they are in order.
We have further to certify that in our opinion the said Aggregate Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and ex-
hibits a true and correct view of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the Books on the 30th June, 1905.
Brisbane, 7th July, 1905.
GEO. FRED. SCOTT, 8.A., F.I.A.Q.
C. A. CLARKE, A.S.A.A., Eng.
Auditors.


To say the growing popularity of D.C.L.
Whisky throughout Australasia is a remarkable fact would
be absurd. It was inevitable. Nevertheless, the increased
consumption of D.C.L. during the past six months sug-
gests that the men who knew must have been actively
engaged in enlightening the drinkers who didn’t know.
At one time it was only the shrewd-looking fellows who
made a particular point of asking for D.C.L. at hotel-bars.
Now the habit is universal-. The Whisky of the Wise is
practically the Whisky of the World.*
Defying Father Time.
Time seems untimely
when he brings a woman
to the turn of life. Life
is, or should be, at its
ripest and best for her,
and she approaches this
change with a dread of
its effect born of her knowledge of the sufferings
of other women at this season. There is not the
slightest cause for fear or anxiety at this period
if Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are taken
occasionally to keep the system : toned and the
stomach in proper worlcing order. They aid in
the digestion and assimilation of food, strengthen-
ing every organ, making good red blood to pulsate
through the entire body. They get at the cause
of every complaint that has the stomach, liver or
kidneys at its origin, and are a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, sick headache, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments.*
Civilisation largely consists of moving con-
siderable masses of material from one place to another,
and the more easily, cheaply and expeditiously it is done
the higher the grade of civilisation. According to the
report of A. E. Leplastrier, of 64 Pitt-street, Sydney, the
Commonwealth is becoming more civilised every week,
as he has equipped several tramways with ra'ils and
rolling stock, such as steel mining cars, waggons and
locomotives, the latter of both single and compound
expansion. A great number of his Improved “ Robey ”
portable and traction engines have been introduced, and
his oil engines of the same make, thrashing machines, and
centrifugal pumps have been largely sold within the
Commonwealth. But the most significant sigh ‘of the
times is the ready sale that his steam lorries and agricul-
tural motors are meeting with, while many mines have
been equipped by him with Luhrig vanners and tables.
The use of machinery is a matter - of education, and
the Australian is getting rapidly educated by Mr.
Leplastrier. Any citizen who requires light on how to
shift anything should drop a note to him at his address,
and he will place, a .practical, illustrated scheme before
that citizen by return mail.*
7
S SELECT
&
.LA6ER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
Brewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., KEDFESN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
To/? the Australian XI. by an innings
ft n wi° S r r nl T, a disaster - And ifc was the match that
it was absolutely necessary for Australia to win, too
Anr) ca,led corre ctly for the fourth time!
Ana with the spin of the coin went the fate of
the match. England batted on a good wicket, and
f an ?P a ® core of 446 (captain Jackson making 113, Hay-
Si mifb™ P °° ner 52 ' ) ' , Then came the rain . ai >d washed
h °P°® a ?' a J> an d our fellows were smitten down
rnln ’i? ar ? n *! S bein S' the only bright speck in the
ruin. The Australians followed on, and their second in-
nings was a bigger disasterthan the first—a mere 169 Then
the Lion roared and lashed the mud with his tail
* • * *
Jackson now stands taller than ever above his
English compeers as a test-match performer. He has
" io < L more cen turies than any other man. His average
in 1899 was 43 runs, in 1902 it was a trifle better, and this
year it will be much better still. As a bowler he helped
to win the match at Nottingham bv taking five wickets
tor s_, in the first innings of the Australians, and as a
captain he has won the toss four consecutive times.
What an inspiring leader for a team ! His consistencv is
remarkable, for when his average for nine innings this
season was 53 his highest score had been only 111
* * * *
English cricket averages up to the 10th June
didnt give the Australians much show to win a test
match. With the exception of Laver, who headed the
list of bowling averages, and Armstrong (fourth in the
batting list), none of the Australians figured in the front
rank. The 24 best bowlers at that time included two
Australians—Laver and M‘Leod—and four of the English-
men who played in last week’s match—viz., Rhodes,
Hirst, Brearley, and Arnold. Among the 30 best bats
were Armstrong, Noble, and Hill, as against Hirst, Fry,
•Jackson, Hayward,' Rhodes, Jlaclaren, Denton, Bosan-
quet, and A. O. Jones, all of whom have played in one or
morb tests. The figures of Hirst and Fry put them far
ahead of even Armstrong as punishers of county bowling,
although they are comparative failures in big names
either through nerves, or'because they are not sufficiently
safe bats against the keenest bowling and fielding.
The Fourth Test debitcle would suggest that
Australian XL has gone stale and requires a rest. In
both departments of the game the Australians were hope-
lessly outplayed. Compared to the English, their bowl-
ing w-as inferior and their batting unspeakable. Darling
and Duff seem to.be the'only batsmen who played any-
thing like up to. form; and Noble the. only man' able to
handle the leather. There have been too many county
matches in quick succession, and the ashes have been
sacrificed to a sordid appetite for gate money. In any
case, perhaps this isn’t the right XI. to send on the ash
business.
* * » *
Bill Howell’s re-appearance, after so long an
absence, in the return match against Surrey, was due, no
doubt, to the impression that the County is always an
easy mark for William’s bowling. This superstition is
based on the fact that William once captured the w'hole
ten wickets, but this time the bee-farmer could do no
better than secure two wickets for S 3 runs.
* * * •
“A. 8.”: Re your remark about Australian
cricketers caring nothing whether they are classed as
professionals or amateurs so long as the gates are big.
. They would care if they had to live in England perman!
ently. I \yas astounded, on going to the Cold Country,
to find that the professional athlete is absolutely the
lowest person in the social scale. The gutter-sweeper in
an orthodox Brahman city in India is on terms of easy
comradeship with everybody as compared with the biggest
men of muscle in England. If they make money, like
Hackenschmidt, they have a certain following, but it is a
following limited strictly to athleticism. The average
decent Englishman doesn’t mind talking to athletes in
the arena, though even in the arena there is an air of
patronage about him, but outside the arena the athlete’s
name is Mud. To have done time for a gentlemanly
offence like forgery or embezzlement involves no particular
loss of social status; to connive at a wife’s infidelity is
not SO Very baid ; but the man who competes in sport for
a money prize is as damned in England as though he were
publicly excommunicated in the Muddy Ages.
$ North Sydney .Cricket Club (owners of premier-
pefihknt iiatfd Rawson cup) put up a remarkable
«cw® msfe'season by winning-thirty matches, drawing
one, and losing one in the three grade competitions.
* » * *
J. Darling in a letter to the 8. Australia C.A.
t’other day:—“The Australian Eleven players will not
agree to the constitution as agreed to by Victoria and
N.S.W. . . . The Marylebone Club will not recognise the
present Board, and this you can rely on.” Taking the
“ form ” of the Eleven, and the results of the present tour
into consideration, are the Australian Eleven of so much
importance that the Australian Cricket Board of Control
needs to bother about them? The players’ chance of
dictating to the Australian Board of Control has gone—
gone with the results of the test matches.
* * » *
If the present scribe felt a yearning (which he
doesn’t) to back two horses for the Caulfield G.N. Hurdle
race, he would take Marmont and Quo Vadis. The
burden imposed upon Marmont is not quite prohibitive if
the old gelding is still as young as his recent track-work
suggests. It is the same weight (12.5) that Colonel
Shilinski carried successfully three years ago : 111 b. more
than Marmont himself carried in 1903, when he won with
a bit in hand. And the son of Wellington appears to be
now going strong as ever or stronger, notwithstanding
his nine years. Not having been raced at all until he was
a 5-year-old he is, perhaps, not yet on the down grade,
and if he is the Marmont of two years back he has, at
bast, a fair chance. Quo Vadis is worth considering on
the supposition that he has improved with age since the
time when he won over the sticks, and ran a dead-heat
with Wait-a-bit in a jumper’s flat-race. There is some-
thing to be said for Quo Vadis. For many of the others
handicapped below 10.7 there is less to be said. Last
year a 9-stoner got home, but it has to be nptedthal the
3£ mile race at Caulfield is rarely won by a very lightly-
weighted one.
** . *
Ikey Mo on the subject of V.R.C. “ extortion ”
is an amusing complainant. The club proposes to raise
his registration fee from £25 to £lOO, with a view to
freezing out some of the unsubstantial men so that the
remaining ones may get more business and be induced to
lay better odds. Ikey unanimously protests that the
extra fee, although it is more than he can afford, will not
reduce the number of him ; therefore the public will have
to take shorter odds than ever to enable the poor book-
maker to live. To say that he can’t afford the further
£75, but will “take it out of” the people who bet with
him, is to declare that he can afford it. To say—as he
does say—that he would prefer a state of unlimited com-
petition, without any registration at all, is to profess him-
self capable of thriving on a smaller business than he has
hitherto enjoyed, and yet he contends that he can’t afford
the higher fee for a registration which limits competition.
It all boils down to an unconscious admission of the fact
that he can reduce his private expenses by £75 a year
without reducing his ridiculously short odds or ceasing
to live on the fat of the land. But, if the new rule serves
to thin the ranks of Ikey, he will not even need to drink
less champagne or curtail his annual outlay in jewels for
self and missus.
* * * *
“Belßinks”: The average jockey has a con-
tempt for “ Tod Sloaning,” more especially when a hurdle
rider tries it. Gooseman told me a story on the point
t’other week : “ We was set on stopping Splasher from his
Todding, so when he gets ahead of me in the race I lets
him have a cut of my whip fair on the part that’s sup-:
posed to be in the saddle when you aren’t Todding. He
was perched right up on the withers, but he screws round
in slow time to look who done it—and whizz ! Aliek lets
him have one on the other side. Round he goes again;
and his neddy eases up a bit to hear what he’s saying
properly. We’re in front by this time, and he’s Todding
an’ Sloaning in the rear, an’ when he gets going again it’s
a bit too late, and I gets home by ’arf-a-length. No; none
of the Tod Sloaning if I’m about! ”
“Vi a ”; Re non-betting owners (8., 13/7/’O5).
There are two in Queensland who rarely do anythin? with
Ike Moses, and both of them seem to make a good living
out of the noble animal. One is John Finnev, of Dravton
F?nn„ r W u°w mba V the T other > J - M ' Gill -‘ of Ipswich.’
Finney bred Megaphone, Lurhne, Goldfinder, and a host of
others. M Gill bred and raced Lancer, Proctor, and other
champions, and is now racing Fitzgrafton and co. It is
alleged that Finney once put £2 on a race, but I for one
don’t credit the slander.
* * * ,
a .?' Flannagan, the bookmaker who won the
silver City Cup with Clarion, admittedly scratched the
horse for the Broken Hill Cup “ because he did not hear
from the person who drew him in Tattersall’s sweep on
that race. He certainly can afford to laugh at that
individual now, says Adelaide Register. The unsports-
manlike practice is unfortunately not a new one, but it is
new to newspaper apparently commending it.
Millewa : Have heard at various times
schemes mooted to put an end to the dangers of steeple-
chasing by^means of painted logs, instead of the present
substantial menaces to man and beast. But anyone who
has lived in a brush-fence district will have noticed that
when a horse is brought from another part, he at first
jumps cleanly. The mischief begins when he finds he can
break through, and after that he invariably takes the top
off, until the day when he is lazy or blown enough to
simply charge over. A cunning horse would soon drop to
bogus fences. *
* * * *
What might happen. Few months ago Rand-
wick trainer J. Burton looked like having a big say in the
choice of things of coming N.S.W. and Victorian'Spring
meetings with Belah, Scottish King, Murillo and Warroo
and he was envied-accordingly by most of his calling’
Since then Belah has died, and Scottish King broken
down. Murillo is now badly lame, and Warroo has for
some tune past been causing considerable uneasiness
through similar trouble.
* * * »
Trouble between Ikey Mo. and proprietors of
Sydney suburban racecourses is as it was three weeks
spite of Mo. being allowed to operate at Canterbury
and Mooreheld past two Saturdays. Clubs are thoroughly
determined on the increased charges, and they appear to
be assuied of the A. J.C.’s support. Mo. has never yet
made a kick without having to back down in the end.
So far, the wealthier books have remained silent at all
meetings held and allowed the small fry to do the talking
also their chairman and spokesman generally is chairman
of the small potatoes City Tattersalls Club, directly oppo-
site bigger place. Evidently there’s fear of a subsequent
singling out of individuals for special treatment
* * * *
Sydney now supports eight racecourses, and
there are two more being formed—one at Botany and the
other at Zetland. Where does the money come from ?
Nor’-West, who won a steeple in M.L. t’other
day, is 14 years old.
* • * * *
Since the institution of the tote in South Aus-
tralia. fractions totalling £10,603 6s. Bd. have been distri-
buted among local charities by two clubs—A.R.C. and
S.A.J.O. There is no mention of fractions from Ikey Mo.
“FAnnette Kellermann’s sea swim from Dover
to Ramsgate, in half the time that Captain Webb took for
the same journey, has a wonderful appearance on paper
but it doesn’t prove the nut-brown damsel capable of
getting across the Straits of Dover. Webb was a breast-
stroke swimmer whose forte was endurance. Subsequent
stragglers have nearly accomplished the Channel trip in
much better time than Webb showed, but they didn’t get
there. They couldn’t stay long enough in the water to
beat the record of the slower-going man, which has now
held good for 30 years. Webb had been 21 hours 45 min
on the job before he reached Calais, and he afterwards
gave a more extraordinary demonstration of his water-
proof quality by keeping - afloat for 60 consecutive hours
it is said. Still there are days when the Channel is
smooth as glass,” and Annette Kellermann, judeine*
from a comparison of her time with that of Captain Webb
for the Dover to Ramsgate coastal swim, might do the
whole distance in less than 12 hours on an exceptional
day. She might.
* * » *
Spite of successful trials from Putney to Black-
wall and Dover to Ramsgate, Annette Kellermann found
the Channel swim too much for her after three hours
in rough seas and fog. She’ll try again and probably do a
lot better. Well-built and prepared Heaton, of Liverpool
(England), essayed the task on the same day, but had to
stop after six hours, and Saturday last speedy swimmer
Burgess got within four miles of the goal in the wonderful
time of 12 hours, and then had to leave the water. Evi-
dently the swimmer, no matter how great his powers of
endurance, must have a suitable day and, as far as
possible, favorable tides and currents, to have a chance of
success. Webb was singularly lucky in getting both the
day and the water right, ditto Cavill pere, Holbein (once)
and Austrian lady swimmer, Mdme. Icacescu, all of whom
went very close to crossing—Cavill particularly. There’s
as big a crop of aspirants as ever this season, and we have
only heard of three attempts so far. Holbein, Weidmann,
Reece and two Australians—George Read and the remark-
able club swinger Tom Burrows—are among those yet
to tackle the task some time this month.
* * * *
In Sydney Rugby competition Glebe is still first
with 18 points, haying drawn the second bye last Saturday.
South Sydney maintained itself in second place by inflict-
ing a crushing defeat on the unfortunate Eastern
Suburbs, fairly trampling the defeated team in the mud
by 21 to 4. All the same, E.S. made a good struggle
Half-time found South Sydney leading by only 5 points,
and it was only in the second half that the downfall took
place. The Eastern Suburbs men kept their tails up all
the time, and deserved better luck, but courage is
nowhere against a superior pack and a back machine
that works perfectly. Western Suburbs and North
Sydney played a wretched game at the Cricket Ground,
and the victory of the W.S. by 11 to nil, maintained the
club’s position as third on the list with 16 points. Uni-
versity and Newtown put up the game of the day at the
University Oval. Both teams line-kicked for all they
were worth, till, getting warmed up to it, they waded in
to play as much as they knew. The Newtowners seemed
to put up the better game, but the Uni defence was very
good, and the blue-and-gold had the luck, and the game
ended in victory for the ’Varsity by 13 to 8. This placed
Uni and Newtown fourth and fifth on the list with 15
and 14 points respectively. Sydney and Balmain played
a draw, with 11 points each. This Saturday will 'see
N.S.W. team play Queensland 15 at Sydney Cricket
Ground.
* * * *
The Sydney “Soccer” football premiership
competition resumed on Saturday, the Maoriland team
being here no longer to interrupt it, and the result of the
afternoon’s play was to put Pyrmont at the head of the
list, with 16 competition points. Rozelle is next with 14 ;
Glebe is close up with 13, and the other five clubs are
away to perdition in the rear, the absolute tail of the list
being South Sydney, which so far has lost the whole eight
matches played, and has scored not one solitary point.
Saturday’s play saw two draws, when Glebe and Balmain
each scored a single goal and Ultimo and Granville made
three each. _ Pyrmont made of Rozelle a fairly decisive
wreck, winning by 4 to 1, after an exciting, well-played
game. The unfortunate South Sydney w r ent under to
Sydney by 4 goals, the scores being 7 to 3.
* * * *
The Sydney competition under Australian rules
remains as it did a week previous, owing to the crack
members-of all teams being - away at Goulburn. Next
week they will practise for the inter-State matches at
; Brisbane and Melbourne, and the local competition will
not resume till the i9th, when Sj’dney will struggle with
Newtown, and Y.M.C.A. with Redfern in the semi-final.
* * * *
In Melbourne on Saturday the heavens wept so
copiously as to put a stop to all outdoor sport, save only
senior football—the juniors had no “gates” to consider,
and their games lapsed. From midnight on Friday right
through Saturday and Sunday,a stiff westerly wind drove
heavy, soaking showers across the country round Port
Phillip Bay; the grounds were partly shallow lakes, partly
muddy swamps, and the banks around the fences were as
slippery as the road to Gehenna. Nevertheless, some
10,000 turned up to witness Collingwood play “ Sowth,”
while the other games also had plenty of supporters.
There was no football—it was merely push, kick,
shove, slide, and punch. Once or twice ’Wood got its
famous system in going order, but accuracy of aim and
sureness of “ marking ” were impossible with a hall that
was a mere greasy bladder and the ground a slough. Scor-
ing all round was low, Collingwood finally downing
“ Skinner’s beauties ”by 29 points to 21. Fitzroy offered
a like insult to Melbourne by 37 to 18. Carlton journeyed
to Geelong, and, through showers of mud and in a wind
fresh off the ice, stopped the seasiders' run of victories by
kicking 6 goals 11 behinds to 6 goals 5 behinds. The posi-
tion now is—Collingwood 11 wins out of 12 games, ’Roy
9, Carlton 7, “Sowth” and Essendon 6 each —these
still have a chance for the pennant, but only
’Wood’s looks rosy. In the Association, Williamstown
was unexpectedly defeated toy Footscray—lS points to 31
—and retires to the second rung.of the ladder, leaving
the top one occupied by West and North, equal.
There is now a trifle of money changing hands over the
games—in one city betting club, on Fridav night, writer
saw close on £lOO planked on South against ’Wood,
one bet being for £l5. As, given a fair go, the odds were
about 5 to 4 on ’Wood, and as South’s supporters seemed
willing, if not eager, to accept even money, this scribe
began to have doubts about the genuineness of things,
but the result proved he was safe in backing form.
* » * »
They are running an exhibition, or something,
at New Westminster, British Columbia, and are anxious
for Stanburv to go across and defend his newly-acquired
title. The bait offered is £l5O and the chance of making
£7OO. The Canadians are evidently a frugal crowd, and
have carefully omitted all mention of appearance
money. And yet what a fool a man would be to go half-
way round the world to meet unknown competitors on
the chance of picking up a more or less mythical £7OO,
for the £l5O would barely cover the expenses of
himself and trainer, let alone the hotel bill and the cost
of a drink or two to keep the Canadian cold out of the
trainer’s bones. So Stanburv has, it is understood, very
wisely decided to decline the offer. He will probably be
more in pocket by staying at home, and following his
usual avocation, and having an occasional race with what-
ever talent is offering locally. For the Towns-Stanbur.v
match was such a success from a business point of view
that there will probably be a revival of the sport on the
Parramatta. Anyhow the air is full of rumors.
• * * *
S.A. girls are very much up to date in athletic
matters. They beat Victoria easily every year at tennis,
they play polo-matches on skates in public at the Ade-
laide rink, and the other day they got the use of the Oval
on a Saturday afternoon for a hockey-match.
* * * ■
The Law, per Vic. Justice Hodges, has decided
that the convictions of some two score Ohinkies for
running lotteries were not justified on the evidence ;
whereby Treasurer Bent loses some £lOOO in fines and
a quantity of costs. In effect his Honor said that, though
he felt an internal assurance that the conviction was
right, he must allow the appeal, “ there being no evid-
ence to show that the ticket marked gave the purchaser
any right to take part in a lottery, and that there was no
evidence of a lottery.” Mr. Hodges’ capacity for splitting
legal hairs is amazing. Did he fancy the punter paid
Ah Fat sixpence for the pleasure of blotting out ten out of
80 Chinese hieroglyphics ? Does the racecourse punter who
places a sovereign on one of three cards the spieler
spreads on an umbrella, get a signed affidavit that the
said spieler will pay him another pound if he picks the
“lady queen”? Or is the common betting-ticket the
bookie gives the backer “ evidence of a lottery ”? It bears
merely the name “ Ikey M 0.,” a name of a club, a number
and two or three undecipherable strokes with a blue pen-
cil. It means nothing to anybody but the two interested
parties ; “it is no evidence of a lottery,” hut if Ikey
started doing business in such fashion outside Mr. Hodges’
front gate, that very learned Judge would have little hesi-
tation in dismissing his appeal against a conviction for
illegal wagering.
• * * *
N.S.W. Lacrosse Association will not send a
team southward this season, and will play another round
in the competition to fill in the gap. The Queensland
team will fall on Sydney some time this week and play
two inter-State matches and one against the Balmain
team, which is, at present, at the top of the log. Inter-
State matches are expected to be vevy close and well con-
tested. On Saturday Balmain continued its triumphal
progress by downing North Shore by 5 to 3. Marrick-
ville also put Burwood through by 5 to S after a fast,
rough game, which was more like hurling than lacrosse.
* < * *
In the Dunlop inter-club bicycle premierships
contest Enfield met and defeated Northern Suburbs, and
Balmain scored a narrow victory over Curzon Park. The
weather was good, but the dust was unmentionable and
caused quite a number of spills. The final will take place
on the 19th, over a 40-mile course.
* » * *
Wellington Boxing Association conducted a
tournament on July 21 and 22 which, in point of profit,
exceeded all recent Maoriland records. Nearly £2OO was
netted, portion of which goes to bring Al. Neill, Hock
Keys and Harold Smith across from Sydney, to show the
local talent how to “put ’em up.” At the tournament
old-timer Murphy was billed for a “ six-rounds exhibition
spar” with Clarke, of Sydney. It was vigorous all
through, and Torpedo Billy tried several time's to bump
his younger opponent into oblivion with a vicious hook
that did him good service in other days, but Clarke was
never there when the hook arrived. At last, in the fifth
round, Clarke also hooked, and Murphy’s ear was in the
way, and there was no more Murphy. The latter does
well for an old man of 40, but not well enough to compete
with the young bloods.
* * * *
About Australian pugs in S’Africa Ted
Nelson is walking about Chowburg on velvet after defeat-
ing Jack Lalor. Tim Murphy has fought Williams. Latter
was floored twice in second round, and lost on foul in
third round. Rollo has gone to England. Hughey Napier,
Snowy Singleton and Bob Bartlett are trainers. Bill
Heffernan and Bob Burnett are running schools of physi-
cal culture. Curly Kennedy and his brother are in Chow-
burg. -Sigismund Schlaur (late mayor of Menzies, W.A.)
acts as referee ; so does Tom Duggan.
* * * *
The Williams-Tweedie disturbance at Sydney
Gaiety on Saturday night was a dreary affair, Mr. Cocker
Tweedie showing a doleful lack of energy and Mr. Williams
nothing like his usual fire. In fact, the latter seemed to
slog away only from a stern sense of duty, and verily,
boxing is a thing that only bright red enthusiasm can
make interesting*. When the affair had been in swing for
about three rounds, the men in the front seats were read-
ing the evening papers. There was some slight trace of
gore about the news of the Bear-Monkey scrap. Mr.
Williams landed a few about the body, but they did no
harm, as Mr. Tweedie kept religiously out of reach after
poking his left glove into Mr. Williams’ mouth. Mr.
Williams was waiting for a chance to knock out, and Mr.
Tweedie didn’t seem inclined to give it. But it came in
the ninth round, and, for the first time in the scrap, Mr.
Williams became really alive. His right did an avalanche
on to Mr. Tweedie’s point, and the latter gentleman
became parallel with the earth. He came up again with a
lurch like that of a sinking, ship, but a repetition of the
same lamentable violence on the part of Mr. Williams
made him band in his resignation. Barring the unfortu-
nate ferocity at the end, the proceedings were so gentle-
manly that this writer almost called the combatants
“ Esq.” instead of “ Mr.” There are times when even a
murder is so gentlemanly that one is inclined to call it
“ Esq.,” and this wasn’t a murder by a long way.
The newly-materialised Motor Boat Club of
N.S.W., which came into existence last week, will be a
serious rival of the yachting clubs this coming: season.
Philip Mitchell, who was elected commodore, is the man
who founded the Glebe Bowing Club, is a member of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron, and the owner of that
gem of a motor boat, the Cyrene. The club came into
existence with 92 original members. The opening cere-
mony will take place very shortly, upon a date which has
not yet been fixed, and it is understood that it will be
something unusually extra-special. Motoring on water
is not nearly so picturesque as yachting, but it is a heap
more comfortable, and is exciting at times.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
The last remainder of Phil May’s Bulle-
tin drawings is now on view on the premises of J.
R. Tyrrell, fine art and general bookseller, Market
and Castlereagh streets, Sydney.
Premier Bent has appointed George
Seymour, of Ronisey, potato expert for Victoria.
This is the kind of thing that will pay if the
farmer will apply the lessons taught. But what
sort of an uproar would that same farmer create
if Bent appointed, say, a boot-making expert to
teach the boot manufacturers and their men the
latest and best boot methods.
G. H. Reid, at Waterloo (Sydney) last
Monday (S.M. Herald)
Every poor man and woman had exactly the same
power at the ballot box as did the richest.
A Voice : Thanks to the Labor party.
Mr. Reid : That liberty was granted long before there
was a Labor party. At any rate, manhood suffrage was.
and women’s suffrage followed as a corollary.
Manhood suffrage was enacted in N.S.W. by the
Dibbs Government (the Bill was Barton’s), and it
was on condition that it was granted that the
Labor party kept the Dibbs Government in office.
Can’t G. H. Reid speak the truth now and then
just to ventilate his moral being ?
Quite a number of people had a pleasant
evening at Sydney School of Arts one night last
week, when a number of ladies groaned heavily
about the horrors of the Neglected Children’s
Protection Bill. Mrs. M‘Namara started to make
a few remarks on Socialism, and, getting warmed
up to her subject, flew right off the handle,
and dropped the neglected children into the scrap-
heap of forgotten subjects. There seemed to be
no chance of her ending; her ideas came thick
and fast, and the vowels swarmed over one another
like Japs trying to storm a fortress where a
Russian consonant was holding out to the last.
But Mrs. Hamilton-Grey began to hover round
impatiently, her shapely head draped in a
drooping lace lamp-shade, an Elizabethan
ruff round her neck, and Directoire frills
at her wrists. This apparition of old-time love-
liness tried to catch the eye of the Speaker,
but Mrs. M‘Namara only grew more incoherent.
Some of the vowels had been badly wounded by
this time and were being taken away in an ambu-
lance. At last the hyphenated lady expostulated
mildly, and as Mrs. M’Namara only galloped the
faster, the sybil of Manly got angry and spoke
with the loud voice of determination. Then Mrs.
M'Namara gave way suddenly, and Mrs. Grey
waded in. She, too, started on Socialism, but it
was a brand of Socialism that no one else had heard
of, and was admittedly of her own invention, and
she floundered badly. She was more at home
when she got loose on the Neglected Children’s
Protection Bill. No one knows exactly what her
• objections to this Bill are, but the lady seems to
labor under the hallucination that some of its
clauses provide for her little boy being taken from
her care. She apparently thinks Government is
on the look-out for desirable children to kidnap,
whereas in reality it is too busy trying to get rid
of a lot of those it has on hand already.


Carbon Letter Book.
A NIB,
A BOTTLE OF INK,
A SHEET OF PAPER
AND A PEN CARBON BOOK
Makes a complete outfit with which any MAN, WOMAN or CHIT D can write a letter and at
time make an exact copy without leaving the slightest sign of copying on the original.
It keeps a duplicate of bills you send out, of orders, receipts, bank cheques. It leaves
uncertain mark, but a tracing that is often clearer than the original.
It will save any house or family much money by its indisputable record.
the same
no vague,
B> Je Agents for
; Australasia:
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY
BRISBANE.
Agent for Victoria-ANDREW SHERAR & CO., 101-103 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
Himyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label. ■
if
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
My
Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
Car - Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never he without it.
5
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
gout
PILLS
Is the Great English Oure for GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a superiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines. y/
These Pills, which are perfectly'Harmless, require
no restraint of diet during’ their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at ls./lfd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through aryy Chemist Or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Macmvesi & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men,
Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pea.
i
THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Soljd by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEM made bv Maeniven & Cameron, Ltd., is
separate y examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWAStE OF IMITATIONS. “W 8
MAGNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
/ EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
YeryOldVatteA
"" i "*»
LiqueurWhisky.
Pistilled&Bottled by
<yn6
Kilmarnock, Scotland.
»- r-i r\ i-i «:
igyyjiUm *': •
: ii-,| v . t * I « * ! «'
■Vl,lrf»f/f»t M * »*'%M « F.** !
k
DO
t?OR the person who is not' a million (ire, there is ONLY
J? ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Pa'ace,” ~ ! WS
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. W. ELLIS,
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years 1
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
£ung Tonic
to be the WORLD'S CVRE\
for Cougtis, C'ldsj
Asthma, Bronchitis,
arid other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
from
any Chemist or fctore,
and Saves Kany
Lives.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
SA-X-.E
OF
Bank of New Zealand
Forfeited Shares,
IN LOTS.
mENDERS are invited by the Bank of New Zealand for
a the PURCHASE of THIRTEEN THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY-THREE (13,783) FORFEITED
ORDINARY SHARES in the Capital of the Bank of New
Zealand. , . , .
Conditions and form of Tender may be obtained at any
Branch of the Bank. Each Tender must be accompanied
by a Deposit of £1 per Share for Each Share applied for,
in the form of a Bank Draft on Wellington, New Zealand,
payable to the order of the General Manager of the Bank,
and must also be enclosed in an envelope, addressed to
the General Manager of the Bank of New Zealand, Wel-
lington, New Zealand, and marked “ Tender for Shares,’
and must reach the Head Office of the Bank in Wellington,
on or before 3 o’clock on the 17th day of OCTOBER, 1905.
The highest or any tender will not necessarily be accepted.
All Shares carry the right to any dividend hereafter
declared for any period subsequent to 31st March, 1905.
By order of the Board,
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
Wellington, 21st June, 1905.
SPECIAL OFFER.
INDIGO BLUE
SERGE SUITS
751-
EXERT CUTTING. BEST WORKMANSHIP.
Samples and Measure Forms Sent to Any Address.
Equal to any Sydney or
Melbourne 95 /- Suit.
THE LARGEST HIGH-CLASS ESTABLISHMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
E. T. WALSH,
MERCHANT TAILOR,
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
The new session of Queensland State Par-
liament may see some startling reversals of form.
Morgan’s Cabinet has two discordant elements in
it. One is Denham, who utters philippics against
State Socialism at all seasons, J and the other
is Joey Bell, the maladroit Minister for Lands.
Denham is a square plug in a round hole and Bell
a round plug in a square hole, but they are both
plugs. Kidston’s Betterment Bill, said to be
coming on again this session, may blow out these
plugs, and then there will be two orifices to let.
Westralian Labor party has put “ State
lotteries ”in its general platform. It found room,
too, for a plank that the State should make its
own policemen s pants ; but it couldn t find room
there for another declaring that it wouldn’t put
its country any deeper into pawn. It stipulates
that the present generation shouldn’t work more
than eight hours a day ; but it doesn’t take steps
to prevent the next generation having to world ten
hours a day in order to support some foreign
Cohen. It’s far too busy attending to the question
of the policeman’s pants to bother about a small
thing like that.
It begins to appear as if N.S. W. was the
disaster of the Commonwealth and - the one incur-
able blight upon a system which would otherwise
have done much good to Australia. It is N.S.’W.
which sends in that Freetrade faction of the Labor
party which keeps it to the policy of “ sinking the
fiscal issue,” and makes it little more than the
slave and hanger-on of the rich importers. It was
N.S.W. which first invented the sinking of the
fiscal issue. It is a little crowd of disreputable
stonewallers from N.S. W. that makes business
almost impossible—such men as Reid, Pumpkin
Smith, Bruce Smith, Conroy. Joe Cook, Wilks,
and Lonsdale. It was N.S.W. men who first
introduced the stonewalling curse into the Aus-
tralian Parliament to prevent majority rule. . It
was N.S.W. men who started the anti-Socialist
campaign, and threw a fresh bombshell
into a Legislature which was explosive
enough already.' It is principally N.S.W.
men who, at time of writing, are blocking business
with a purposeless debate which consists mostly
in throwing mud about because George Reid of
N.S.W. lost his job. It is N.S.W. politicians
who are blocking the settlement of the Federal
capital. It is mostly N.S.W. members who drag
the sectarian issue into Federal politics insects
like Wilks and Bruce Smith, who live to a great
extent by crying put about the walls of Derry and
the old Irish scrimmage at Boyne Creek. A large
section of the N.S.W. membership of the House
of Representatives has been a curse and a disgrace
all the time.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
9
(Kegd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyjamas,
Cliildren’s
Frocks, &c.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
See the label on the Selvedge.
The Queen says: “ ‘Viyella* has
borne the test of years; yon can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round."
From the leading Drapers.
“ Sylvanus ” coo-ees from the bush :
I am a pro-Australian down to the very hobnails of my
No. 10 bluchers, and I want to know why Australians
don’t do more for themselves? Struck a sawmill lately.,
arid asked the engine-driver the time. He pointed to a
clock (made in America). Looked at his engines (made
in England). Asked the boss for a job. He was filing an
imported saw with an imported file, and smoking imported
tobacco in an imported clay pipe. Another man was
grinding an imported axe on an imported stone. Asked
a teamster for a match ; be handed me a box (made in
Sweden). He was blowing about a horse he was driving,
and set great stress on the fact that it was by an imported
horse (felt proud, my old man being imported). . Camped
a night with the mill-hands. .They spent the evening
playing imported instruments, singing iniported songs,
and reading imported literature. Wrote this par with an
imported pen-nib, hoping it will bring me some imported
coin to spend in Australian beer.
an
■
mm
mm m
i mm
jagaSßaa
*
on
. o? oT ® cheap 6 * v/^ cla
it i s , pS ° beeis,
hat
d i aT
on
ch an
OT
e-fd l ,
heap
oft
ate «%%&&%'£&s* o *Sp ecUy
?oV";S *‘ sß . rv •&:*#*
’§£*&&•**
.no
■£>tan (
<r.v
n'oP
, ( a S^ oS '
. t Yv\s^ eel \ eS u\ts-
, , a t oft®
SSSSSfeB
P olU !ked
oft
aftft . t hvee 1
\viftS
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus., Ltd*
All States and IM.Z.


NO PRIVATE MARKS WITH US.£>
expert knowledge Is required when deaiinr, * accorded to yourseir. No
lowest. Quality governs the price, and price the auah'tv “rh - P/ "' C .f S are a> ways the
getting what you pay for is one of the fnunrtr,*- j ' . Th,s absolute certainty of
DAWSON & CO. have built up tin ht nf St ° neS °” Wh ‘ ch STEWART
Australasia. Send us a small trial order Jewß,,er y Stores in
contented crowd of constant customers. ’ become a member of our
■rf> r
cr
«Z
Q SoJk
Tal)le Gong this, with Striker and 4 different
thete n? % In fine Silver-plate. An ornament for
['Timl iwi r nd u . s .^ ful afc the same time. Makes a very
Rood wedding gift, and one unlikely to be duplicated 7
mo £ el l ed and' bird adds- to the
pretty rustic effect and enhances the general appear-
ance. Price £2 10s.
*3^V-£i
made for use, and u bound to satisfy. £l3 10s complete
The Scimitar "Brooch. This is our own
particular design, and can only be had
<M " The Hilt is of strong
Greenstone,"and is follow bSffi of X ea '? d
strength, and is rivetted through the blade where the PeaH set
Star appears. Splendid value, £1 6s . Set
Miefii
syd^B
vA\\
Suppose you wish to send
a small token of remem-
brance to some one far
away, and yet don’t want
to spend very much. What
better gift than one of
these Sterli ng Silver Enam-
elled Top Souvenirs of
Sydney ?
We can supply any of the four styles of tops shown in two sizes. The medium Tea
Spoon, 9s 6d ; and the full size one for 13s 6d. 1 Tea
:?Z*"Z any article we se " and safe by post cn receipt of remittance
When cheques are sent by new customers, they must allow time for co'lac-
t,on or send a Sydney reference along with cheque. Goods noT approvod o;
,f XC anB T ,f returned promptly and in good order, „r we wHI refund
the full amount paid us. We have confidence in our gcods and cannot
make fairer terms than these, you stand
no risk whatsoever.
made r 'of 8 t n f,oH I s- I Wide , b f se > <louble Inkstand,
Pen Ea k If Ver ? late a , nd co, nplete with
.J ; . ®°l tles have silver-plated covers
fnlf can fV n to framework of sta "<l so that the
decorated hnrrf llpset : Has four ball feet, and
decorated border as shown. Our best 25s ink
unquestionably.
Match Boxes in Solid Silver, with solid 9c. Gold
Ornamental Shields and Mounts, form elegant
g-ifts. We have a range of sizes in plain or fancy
engraved styles They are the best boxes made
the woikmanship and finish being perfection’
Prices for the plain styles are 18/6, 22/6, 25/- and
for the engraved ones 25/-, 27/6, 30 / - ’
Solid Silver and. Cut-Glass.
The two are happily com-
bined in this extremely
pretty Smelling- Salts Bottle.
The bottle is filled with
pungent, refreshing- Salts,
and will be found a' boon in
the sick-room, theatre or
ballroom. The Salts are
colored by means of a harm-
less coloring- matter, in
pretty shades of red and
green, giving the bottle a
rich appearance. Free by
post for 3s 6d.
ar aV^ fU ‘ I‘lphP^°"L^fcandßutton 1 ‘ 1 phP^°" L^ fcandButton Hook in that refined pattern
service no/thP tS tw t iw 6y are of c su P erior make and intended for
»rHpnfo f!?i th kd th f 1? t 0 P' eces fir st time of using-. Convenient
ai tides to have on vour dressing-table and useful things to give as a giffe
Hooks cost 10s 6d, and the Lifts 12s 6d each.
This is a triumph for us, and an unusual chance for you, A fresh biff
are smart) in
'Cham Bag’s of Sterling Sil-
ver .are all the go now, and
uftyou would be up-to-date
you nnust have one of these.
We have them in many
■styles and sizes, some as
high as £5 ; but here we
will mention three that
come nearer the general
demand. As shown, in
Sterling Silver, size 2Ain. x
3, £1 12s 6d ; larger size,
£ll7s 6d ; smaller sizes and:
different shape without the.
chain and ring, 17s 6d.
Write for Catalogue.
This illustration depicts a range of 3 sizes in one of
our most popular lines of Flower Vases. They are
made of pure Nickel Silver, thickly plated with
Sterling- Silver, and are far superior to the ordinary
make of Solid Silver Vase because they are so much
stronger. The bottoms are weighted in order to
iprevent the flowers from tipping them over. The
sizes and prices run—s|in., 8s 6d : 63in., 9s 6d:
Vfin., 10s 6d.
health
APPETITE
DIGESTION
STRENGTH
E MERGY
VITALITY
Disease-Breeding
Uric Acid.
Uric acid is the predisposing cause of Gout,
Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, and Mental De-
spondency.
Uric acid checks the efficient filtering power of
n G 1 b ' a<bs the development of
Disease St ° ne ’ Lumbag0 ’ I)iab Ues, and Bright’s
Uric acid, again, is one of the chief causes of
constipation, that arch-thief of health.
In short, excessive uric acid is a'well-known
blood poisoner, which infects brain, nerves, tissue,
and muscle.
The grandest remedy in the world for kidney
trouble and all uric acid diseases is undoubtedly
Kutnow s Powder.
The leading physicians of London, Paris, Berlin
and Jew York have tested the power of Kutnow’s
Powder as a natural solvent and eliminant of uric
acid.
The result has been a veritable triumph for
Kutnow s Powder. They not only prescribe it in
their private and hospital practice, but use it
personally as a guard against serious disease
PROP. P. H. GRIFFIN, M.D., wrote: “I
only wish every soul in the world used Kutnow’s
Powder. They would experience great benefit.”
• Powder is a most delightful, refresh-
ing health draught, nerve-bracing and exhilarating.
It is absolutely free from sugar, pleasant to the
taste, and always gives entire satisfaction. A
nation’s wealth is a nation’s health. Those who
value health take Kutnow’s Powder.
The Loss of Nerve-Power and
the Remedy.
remedy which is now endorsed and XtheT theone
in both hemispheres and nl«n m f . • , , > <dl the leading physicians
in the Eritish
important CAUTION !
***«* « e who>
imitation of their own. It is well known fW +W ° lSt V, pon you some cheap
Ingldy dangerous, and in the case of dtdicMirV 'f- cheap concoctions are
inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s PoSr h n IVO Persons, capable of
free from sugar, and absolutely See tbat P fV, re f PM? 6 -f ’ P alatabJ e,
on the bottle -
Genuine KUTMOW’S POWDER.
PROPRIETORS:
s - KUTNOW & CO., Ltd., 4t Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors m U.S.A.: KUINOW BROS., Ltd., 35S Braodwa r , Kew York
Frequent Reports of
Success.
A LEADING PRACTITE ONER WRITES «
(( Columbia Hospital, Chicago, June 10th, 1904.
It gives '• me pleasure to state with what satis-
action I h ave used Kutnow’s P ’owder in my
practice. I find that it is a gentle ' laxative and
gastric sedative, which overcomes l Hie most dis-
tressing syrup toms so often remembere 1 by patients
wit so much- dread. It soon controls \the gastric
distress, keeps* up gentle peristalsis and laxity, the
importance of § which, surgeons appreciat '&•
“A. A. O’NEILL, M.D.”
KIDMEY TROUBLE RELIEVED^
“s,|Saraien Buildings, Wigmore St ~ W.
“June 17th, 19 b 4
±-or-some, months past I have suffered very
considerably with my kidneys, and at times
swellings have been, very bad, but lam thanHful
to say Kutonow’s Powder has always relieved i ne,
and by its regular uses keeps me in perfect heal th,
ttius justifying everyiword in your advertiseinei
“E. G. STEPHENS.” '
REV. CHARLES RHODES WRITES:
Florence Odttage, Old Eletton,
“ Peterborough, May 31st, 1904.
After a more expended use of Kutnow’s
Powder, I man, testify to-, its efficacy. I have been
taking it for about a,moath for sluggish liver, and
it has done |me more good than anything else I
have/tried. ;It is the fleast expensive in the end.
“ (Rev.) CHARLES RHODES.”
PERMANENTLY ERADICATES CONSTIPATION.
£4*lo


BUCHANAN’S WHISKY.
$
1
W
m
ms
&
fc
• ...
“A MORNING NIP
BUCHAKTAKT “Facile Pkinceps ” WHISKY.
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of Infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blistertlie
skin -There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs— it is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
fl of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book ( illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
on nerve diseases and ailments of men. The
latest medical thought put in the most instruct
tive and interesting manner. It will tell yoxt
what you ought to know and wha*- you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M^; s
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
'
.1 .'r-;.*
'i
‘
":.
:
: 3
i' - ■
as
■
.
' •• :■ ■.
'
■
Man
§a%
»*
it
m
5 DAYS
IM
UMSHIH
Write for Catalogue 'S Testimonials
D
D
■■ '.'A'.
-
Head Office: 668 Bourke St. MELBOURNE
Sydney Office:42 Engine Si .f at Adelaide.


YEARS OF PAIN.
FLATULENCE, LOST SLEEP
AND APPETITE;
ALL PROMPTLY CURED
BY
MOTHER SEIGEL’S
SYRUP.
“I endured years of fearful suffer-
ing from indigestion. It shut out
the pleasure of life as fog blots out
sunshine. I had frequent headaches,
violent pains and distress in my
stomach, risings of wind after eating,
poor appetite and extreme debility
and weakness. None of the many
treatments I tried helped me, except
for the moment. Often I was quite
unable to do my household work.
About 18 months ago I read of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I bought a
bottle of it and I was surprised to
discover that it helped me at once.
I began to eat fairly w r ell and gained
weight and strength. Five bottles
cured me completely and I have had
no return of the ailments. Mrs.
Emily Brown, of 64 Baptist St., Red-
fern, N.s.w. ; letter of January 19,1905
*'** Don't endure these or any other
stomach troubles for a single day ,
when the infallible remedy , Mother
Sergei's Syrup , can be had at small
cost from every up-to-date Chemist.
It has stood the test of jj years'
service.
C. Stratmann’s
FINE...
*
Made on the
Premises
CHOCOLATES a„d
SWEET 11 EATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
Amusements.
"|" H E HIST RIORIIC SOCIETY.
ODDFELLOWS’ TEMPLE, ELIZABETH-STREET.
DRAMATIC ENTERTAINMENT,
TUESDAY, AUGUST 8.
Grand Triple Bill, consisting of the Curtain-Raiser,
SUNSET (Jerome K. Jerome), the Second Act of (MOT
SUCH A FOOL AS HE LOOKS, and the Scream-
ing Comedietta, WHO’S TO WIN HIM ?
Box Plan Now Open at Paling’s.
Dramatic Director, HARRY LESTON.
■TIVOLI THEA T R E, S Y O J j£ V.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mb. Haimiy Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of MISS FLORENCE CHALLIS.
Also, THE MODERN MILO, and CRUIKSHANK, THE
CARICATURIST. KELLY AND AGNES.
DAINTY BABY COOPER. J. V/. WINTON and M’CINTY.
THE GOTHAM TRIO.
Emphatic Success of MR. L.EO. DRYDEN.
Great Success of Master BOBBIE WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE DUDLEIGH. Also, Mr. IRVING SAYLES.
HARRY ROCHFORT, HARRY HART, FRANK YORKE.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK LEON, World’s Champion Dancer.
WALTER KEEN, Author and Comedian.
ELLEN MARR, Contralto.
WILL MINTON, Comedian Dancer.
DELROY and BELL, Sketch Artists.
CHAS. DIAMOND. MISS BEATRICE, Expert Musicians.
THE LAZARAS, Acrobatic Artists.
JAMES HARVEY, Comedian and Dancer.
NAT TRAVERS, Coster Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s (id, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Exciting Melodramatic Spectacle,
WOMAN AND WINE.
HW PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THELT RE, MEL BOURNE.
■ Lessee .. .. Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
Sub-Lessees & Managers .. Messrs. Brough & Flemming.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
THE BROUGH-FLEMMIMC COMEDY COMPANY in
THE WALLS OF JERICHO.
IAF“ BOX PLAN at Glen’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m.
|_JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 5,
First Appearance of Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
GILBERT & SULLIVAN’S REPERTOIRE COMPANY in
THE GONDOLIERS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS,
Do for Baby?
EVERYTHING that is cleansing,
purifying, and beautifying for the
Skin, Scalp, Hair, and Hands of
Infants and Children Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura
mcnt, the great Skin Cure, will
surely do. No person need go
%th into the world tortured and
disfigured by inherited humours of
the Skin, Scalp, and Blood if Cutb
cura Remedies have been used in
childhood. Cures made in infancy
are speedy and permanent.
the 'wk C rM a S n ap ’ P in 1 tmen 1 t - and Pills are sold throughout
Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
fiHiie.de la I aix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney:
®- A -> Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Bole Props.
Preserve, Purify, and Beautify
the Skin, Scalp, Hair, and Hands of Infants and Children/’
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS''Of.
MR. ANDREW MACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, in his
Latest Success, the Typical Romantic Irish Play,
THE WAY TO KENMARE
SAT. NEXT, AUGUST 5, ARRAH-NA-POCUE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. EST PRICES AS USUAL.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Superb Adelphi Melodramatic Novelty,
THE MIDNIGHT IVI A IL,
Presented by the
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, Headed by the
Talented Australian Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Elvy.’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee JOHN F. SUfiRfDAN.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Continued and Unqualified Success,
THE EARL AMD THE GIRL.
THAT’S ALL-YOU KNOW THE REST.
OH, YES !
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
PRICES —35., 25., Is. 6d., and Is. figtt No Early Doors.
Box Plan at Elvy’s ; Day Sale at White Rose.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDN EY.
Sole Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
A GREAT BOOM.
If You Would Be Up-to-Date, You Must See
THE GREAT THURSTON,
The World’s Master Fascinating Magician.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. 6d., and is. No Early Doors.
Plan jit Paling’s. A. COWAN, Manager.
Y CEU IVI T HEA T RE, S Y D N E Y.
FIFTH WEEK, STILL the REIGNING .SUCCESS.
Though still maintaining its triumphant and ever-increas-
ing popularity, Mr. C. Speiiceris regretfully,compelled to
announce the LAST WEEK of the
GREAT AMERICAN TREATRESCOPE.
An ovation greeted the First Animated Reproduction
of that Epoch-making Drama, THE SIGN OF THE
CROSS, and the host of New. and Varied Dramatic,
Scenic and Humorous Subjects.
PRICES—2s., Is., and (id. Plan at Paling's.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Sub-Lessee & Manager .. Mr. F. M. CLARK.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
FRANK M. CLARK’S NEW FOLLY CO.
The Brightest and Most Refined Vaudeville Show in
the Commonwealth.
Instantaneous Triumph of
DORIS THE SISTERS MARTIN. PHYLIS
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY.
ET L I T E H A L L , SYDNEY
“ (Late Quong Tart’s Premises, Q.V. Markets).
LINGARD’S
WOKr33BR.LA.3Xm,
AN IDEAL PALACE OE AMUSEMENT,
and A MARVELLOUS EXHIBITION,
in Conjunction with the
ROYAL CORONATION WAXWORKS,
From England and America.
6 COMPLETE SHOWS IN ONE. 6
OPEN DAILY FROM MORNING TILL EVENING,
f T”"" ’Tr *
iiAieas:
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Build ng, Perth.
Of course you have Svstom
in vour office BUT IH if
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER !•■
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Rothwell's
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonic
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £1 Is. [3.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits oease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc!
Wholesale Agents :
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nioholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
DEAFNESS CURED,
THE AUROPHONE,
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the RELIEF and CURE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address:
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
14 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
THE
DEAF
UEAE<
By using the Wilson Cora-
mon Sense Far Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
tressing head noises write
for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress —Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose an.l adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-'
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
i he sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDIC ATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neural gia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete wi th 4months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
MEDICATOR.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 38 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,; The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives ii stant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 38 years’ proven efficacy,
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
tor broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHARTICUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds,
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of the
* High'Court of Justice made in the Matter of the
Estate of Edward John Ellerman deceased Hermitage v.
Ellerman 1902 E. 1156 the following' enquiry is directed
that isito say (1) an enquiry whether Henry Ellerman one
of the residuary devisees and legatees under the Will of
the above nauied .Edward'John Ellerman deceased is living
or dead.
And if he be dead the following further enquiry is
directed that is to say (2) an enquiry when he died and
who are entitled and in what shares and proportions to
the real and personal estate devised and bequeathed to
the said Henry Ellerman by the Will of the said Edward
John Ellerman deceased.
Now the said Henry Ellerman and all persons claiming
under the second above mentioned enquiry are by their
Solicitors on or before the 30th day of November 1905 to
come in and prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr.
Justice Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce Royal Courts of
Justice England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said order.
The Bth day of December 1905 at 12.30 of the clock in
the afternoon at Room 689 in the said Chambers is
appointed for hearing and adjudging upon claims.
Dated this 24th day of June 1905.
W. O. HEWLETT
Master.
NOTE.—The said Henry Ellerman was a nephew of the
Testator Edward John Ellerman and son of Horatio Cock-
burn Ellerman Clerk in Holy Orders who emigrated to
Australia and travelled up country from Melbourne. It is
not known whether the said Henry Ellerman married and
had issue or left a Will.
Mrs. Brown-Potter’s evidence at the preliminary trial
of lawyer Fossick, of Maidenhead (Eng.), explained what
the prisoner meant by saying he had got into embezzle-
ments through lencpng money to Mrs. B.P. without
security. The lady stated that Fossick had been her
solicitor for years, negotiating loans on her behalf when
she was “ stuck ” for ready money. It was Fossick who
urged her to produce the play, “ Bu Barri,” alleging that
a mysterious syndicate was financing the show. He
himself was the syndicate, apparently, and his trust
funds provided the needful. Mrs. Potter agreed with the
mysterious syndicate that her salary was to be always
£lOO a week, but when the supplies ran out she gave a
b.U of sale on her furniture to raise means of paying the
stage-hands, supers, and other impecunious people
engaged in the frost-bitten show.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Melb.**: The funny fat gardener in “ Beauty and the
Barge ” was ludicrously like Edward Smith, the Bourke-
street classic shoeblack, a really admirable scholar, who
spends all his spare time studying Greek and Latin at the
Public Lib; ary.
The Paris nower-market scene in “ Woman and Wine
reminds one that the market dames preserve an ancient
custom concerning- the drama. Actresses tret bouquets,
on first nights, but in the early morning- after the produc-
I tion of a new play the author is expected to stroll into
the market and receive a bouquet from two of the flower
saleswomen. Then he kisses them on both cheeks and
presents them with free passes to the show. A dismal
custom for an author whose play has been damned.
There are some queer ways of achieving fame. A
London paper lately announced the death of a man
whose claim to the paragraph was the publication of a
music-hall song forty years ago. The chorus of that
time-honored ditty was “ Slap llang ! Here we are again.
Here we are again, here we are again ; Slap Bang There
we are again: what jolly dogs are we!” And the
“melody” was as puerile as the words.
Genial Joe Gibbs, a clever architect who had drifted
into the musical and side-show business, passed out at
Melbourne Hospital, the other day. Gibbs (proper name
Jordan) managed for Musin, Gerardy and others ; acted
as “overseer” of amusements at Melbourne Exhibition in
188S-S9, and did a number of odd jobs of that sort. A
gouty, fruity veteran, with aCoppinesque face, he carried
his 02 years agedly, and talked like an octogenarian of old
times and bygone joys. A gentleman not less than a good
sort.
“ Melb.” : Wendell Phillips used to lecture in America
on the Lost Arts. One of them is that of acting “ School
for Scandal.” The recent effort at Her Majesty’s was almost
painful, both to actors and audience. Kankin was at
home with the fat old man—quite Sterne’s Uncle Toby.
But oh, Lady Teazle, Lady Sneerwell, Mrs. Candour,
Maria, Oliver, Joseph, Crabtree, Backbite, Rowley, Care-
less—you seemed to want to get “School ” over, the task
ended ! Then the starved-looking audience trying to
smgg'er ! Charles’s damson or crushed-raspberry coat was
nice, and he would do, as well as Kingston or Bellew.
Sooth to remark, the falsity of Sheridan’s crackly and
overloaded dialogue came out. Andy Mack seemed to be
there, persuading' me that Tom Moore could better put in
the one touch of nature. But stay, there is the immortal
creen scene, almost as good as Hamlet with his mother.
Miss Beatrice Day, the handsome leading ladv of the
Brough-Flemmingco., is, in private life, Mrs. Wall. She
is not a member of that old family, the Walls of Jericho.
“O’Fipp”: Pleasing is the news of the Knight-Jeffries
co. s addition of “ Comedy and Tragedy ” to its repertoire.
It would be hard to find a one-act play showing a more
skilful mingling of emotions than this little masterpiece
of Gilbert’s. The play was written for Mary Anderson.
Most of Gilbert’s operas continue to be reproduced, but,
bar “Pygmalion and Galatea” and “Comedy and
Tragedy,” his plays apparently fail to strike managers as
worth putting on. Surely the wit of “ Engaged,” “ Tom
Cobb,”-and “The Palace of Truth,” or the fancy and
pathos of “Broken Hearts,” would attract good audi-
ences.
It is seriously alleged that Melba intends to marry Lord
“Dick” Kevill, the tall, thin Government House
ass.stunt whom she attached to her service when she
revisited Melbourne on her starring tour. People won-
dered why the tempestuous prima-donna chose mild,
pallid Lord Dick for her follower-in-chief, but if she means
to convert him into Lord Richard Melba the mystery is
explained. Also a surprising circumstance incidental to
his departure from Melbourne last year will be accounted
for by the marriage—when it comes off. Apart from his
title, the rumored bridegroom-elect has no visible attrac-
tions for a lady of Melba’s temperament, except his ears.
They are, large, outstanding ears, which look as though
they had sprouted on his lordship for flying purposes, and
were intended by nature to be boxed.
The most realistic point about the feeble last act of
“Jericho” is the high-spirited wife’s declaration of
“ hatred ’’—hard, uncompromising hatred—for the hus-
band whom she presently admits to be her well-beloved
boss. Pinero worked the same point bf contradiction in
his first attempt at writing*for the stage—a one-act comedy
called “Daisy’s Escape.” The Daisy, having quarrelled
with her “ boy,” passionately asserts that love like hers
can be turned to hate, and she hates the boy in question.
He approaches from the rear as she vents her fury ; she
turns round and throws her arms round his neck. Drama-
tists never venture a similarly sudden change of front
with the male animal. The angry man takes back his.
wrath by instalments.
“The Walls of Jericho” is just a catchpenny name for
Sutro’s play, not more pertinent to the story than
“Mount Ararat” would have been. One of the characters
cynically suggests that the moralist frpm (Queensland is
trying to knock Society over with a trumpet blast. A
bishop’s giddy daughter chips in by quoting the Scripture
lines re. Joshua and the downfall of Jericho’s walls, where-
upon the cynic remarks that Jericho was jerry-built. The
excuse for the title begins and ends in that small piece of
conversation. But in one of Bland Holt’s dramas the
significance of the title is only revealed in the last four
words, spoken by Walter Baker as a cue for the curtain to
come down. Baker, supported by a brass band and ban-
ner, congratulates himself on his restoration to the arms
of a Scottish regiment which—here the voice takes a ris-
ing inflection—“ has ever been One of the Best.” Anyone
leaving the house before these luminous words are spoken
is as one who has heard a sermon without having arrived
at the text.
“ 0.K.” : The “ Trilby ” revival in Melbourne sets people
asking what has become of Regina Nagel, the girl who
sang “Ben Bolt” in the original production, and was
thereby put in the way to make a career for herself.
The failure of the European career doesn’t alter the fact
that Miss Nagel had a noble contralto voice, which did its
best in Australia only when the nervous singer was hidden
from observation. Facing an audience, Miss Nagel
couldn’t sing at more than half-volume. But, when she
gave the verse of “ Ben Bolt,” being boxed-in at the
wings of the stage so that nobody could catch her eye,
her voice created an atmosphere of probability lor the
luridly melodramatic play. The successors to Regina
Nagel have been ordinary singers, who couldn’t, by any
stretch of imagination, be supposed to have made Madame
Svengali the talk of Paris. As soon as the voice was
heard the drama stood convicted of untruthfulness. It
offered no excuse for the spellbound attitudes of Taffy,
Little Billee and the Laird. Was thin the marvellous
result of Bvengali’s hypnotic influence? One felt as
though his leg had been pulled.
“ Fairplay ” in reply : The attack made by “E.”upon
Professor Peterson in last week’s issue calls for some
remarks on the other side. Passing over the remarks
concerning his hair or the way he wields his baton, the
statement that “he has not given one really good
concert ” (which those most competent know to be
entirely wrong) is quite beside the question. A university
professor of music is required to understand the con-
struction of music quite apart from its performance on
any musical instrument or combination of musical
instruments. It is not necessary for him to either sing,
play or conduct, although he ean generally do one or
more of those things if he wishes to. His business is
that of the theorist, and not of the gymnastic performer
or handler of mobs of orchestral players or chorus
singers. Unfortunately in Australia, the musician who
knows music apart from the mere reading of it is such
a rare animal as not to be recognised among the crowd of
roarers, bounders, and presumptuous ignorami who
mostly run the show.
“ E.Z.D.,” writing from Narrabri:—
The N.S.W. Lands Department acted characteristically
in throwing open part of Therrbri station (Narrabri
district). Some 20,000 acres were gazetted as available
for c.p., conditional lease, or any additional holding. On
the day before the land became available, the first Gazette
was revoked, and about three-fourths of the best part of
the country declared to be available for original condi-
tional purchase only, to the exclusion of conditional lease
and all other additional holdings. It costs a great deal
more to select conditional purchase than conditional
lease. For instance, to select 500 acres of c.p. at a capi-
tal value of 30s. (about the average of the land referred
to) and 1500 acres of c.l. (that being the proportion of c.l.
allowed), the applicant would have to deposit about £lOB,
while, to take up the whole as c.p. (as he would be forced
to do under the altered conditions), he would have to
plank down £320; and the greater the area he wanted
the greater would be the difference. The rich man want-
| i !1 U' to put Horace “on the land ” smiles contentedly, but
poor old Dad, who has been scraping together a few
I pounds “ to git Bill goin’ on a bit of a selection,” isn’t
I feelipg so good. What land agent was responsible for
| this change ?


—— aeam—ni
SOLD
BY
1
I
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
w hich they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnellys Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by Be Foe, Is posted. Mame
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason s How
to Train the Horse, ls6d. Passion s Paradise, Is 6a.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
WiNDO\f Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, is da.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
M \ke Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of l 1 ate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and'the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Pitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Pascal Gust awe Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Bepairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. . Man Prom Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
.Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D® - Established SO Years.
No flatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
«.
Write tor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS. OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover s
Letter Writer, Is. New Boor of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Tellin6 Cards, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full directions, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds* Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is 6d post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete) Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First.
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 600 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT
AR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
ANTI-
BILIOUS
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”— Dr. G. F Collie*., in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a-family, ®
m
WHAT IS A SPECIAIjIST 2
Webster defines the word Specialist to mean “ One who devoted himself to a Speciality.” The word
» SneefaliL” he defines as follows : “That which is the special or particular calling of any person or business ;
that for which a person is distinguished or which he makes the object of special attention. .
“ to P these definitions, the followers of any particular pursuits may become Specialists in their par-
ticular line In the early centuries there were no' specialists, but as the world advanced in knowledge the
SbecMist became a necessity. The world discovered that the “ Jack-of-all-trades was certainly master of none.
Thus it is that THE FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
is the Home of many Celebrated International Specialists in Disease, who are quoted as highest authorities in
SPECIALISTS ofThe n FEEEMAN mdWALLACE MEDIO AL* we* undoubtedly EXPERTS. 0 The/do not
pro fess to disease3, BLrr THEY shoemak Q or Butcher> md , lso
It is seldom that you nna one in*. applying themselves to either of these trades, become perfect.
KK ttSM* §~t*«fes£S!BSl •» *“ r—«.
and so undoubtedly are the FREEtIAN and WALLACE SPECIALISTS.
Here are one or two testimonies sent in to Dr.
Wallace, Physician-in-Chie? to the Medical Staff, which
comprises FOUE LEGALLY QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS,
and which should be read with interest.
MR. E. H. PEftRD, of Mulwaia, Vic., writes
“I am highly pleased at kind treatment .and skill re-
ceived at the Institute, for you have treated me in a
verv clever and straightforward manner.
Mr. DAVID O’KEEFE, Beaconsfield, Tas,, writes
“ I have worked very hard ind ed lately, and am able
to do my portion just as well as the best of my mates,
thanks to your skill.”
Mrs.FOWER, of Neardie, Queensland, writes:—
“ I am happy to say my health has been for some
time past, and now is, very good since you treated me.”
[This was one of the most severe and deep-seated
cases ever we were called upon to treat.]
DO NOT BE ASLEEP
TO YOUR SELF-INTEREST.
MANY men are asleep and dead to their self-interest, and especially so are they
in cases jvhere their health is at stake. Many neglect the latter, and fail to
consult the Physician or Specialist until too late to av °’ l f r P' l "
ruptcy or an expensive course of treatment or operation. “TO BE FORE-
WARNED IS TO BE FORE-ARMED.” That is an old proverb, true in every word
for the man who carelessly looks upon a symptom of disease and discards it.
Now let us talk to you. The Specialists of
FR€«man & Wallace
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
are Experts in diseases of Genito-Urinary Systems. We treat them specially by the
most scientific methods. We do not patch up, charge heavily, or professionally hum-
bug If a man has VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, BLADDER IMPAIRMENTS,
CYSTITIS, KIDNEY TROUBLE, DIABETES, INFLAMMATION OF THE
PROSTATIC GLAND, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION or INDIGESTION, we
cure in 90 per cent, such cases, provided the patient takes our remedies correctly
and obeys our instructions perfectly.
Here is a letter extract from a man we took in hand when he considered himself
on the brink of the grave :
“Messrs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,—
Some months ago / was a wreck. My friends considered
my case hopeless. I had little hope when I wrote you and
detailed my case and its cause. No one would have thought I
had any great chance of living another 12 months. Your treat-
ment has reversed my hopes, and has wrought wonderful
changes. / am now fairly strong and well, and have given
proof of that strength in many ways. / recommend the treat-
ment and your methods because i believe you to be Specialists
In your particular lines of disease. ”
We Cure Men to Stay Cured .
The Diseases which the Specialists of THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
INSTITUTE particularly treat are those which affect the Genito-Urinary systems.
These are their Specialities, and they at all times delight in treating cases incom-
petently treated by general practitioners. When they cure a man he is cured to stay
cured. Blood Poison, Varicocele, Rupture, Cystitis, Prostatic Affections, and other
dangerous diseases come within the scope of the Specialistic Staff, which includes
FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS. Consultation
is free, because in the public interest no charge is made for friendly talks which may
lead to ultimate, permanent cure.
Special invitation is given to those who have tried all sources for relief, and failed.
DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., who is registered by Australian, English, and
American Medical Boards, is Physician-in-Chief. Medical books of 600 pages, treating
particularly upon the diseases from which men suffer, will be sent FREE to any
applicant on receipt of letter or post-ca.rd, or given without any charge whatever to
those who call.
THE FREEMAN
WALLACE
Electro-Medical and
Surgical institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts. Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute ; AND AT MELBOURNE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D.. Physieian-in-Cs)iief; Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Dept, of Women.
An English M.P., HenryTollemache, who
hah sat for Cheshire since ’Bl, boasts the distinc-
tion of having been a member of the Commons for
24 years without making a speech. After all, if a
man has nothing to say, he can’t do better than
avoid saying it for 24 years.
In his recently-publishod “Tracks of a
Rolling Stone,” Henry Coke tells of experiences
at Temple Grove school (“one of the most
sought-after English preparatory schools—the
atrium te Eton ”): —
As to cleanliness, I never had a bath, never bathed (at
the school) during the two years I was there. On
Saturday nights, before bed, our feet were washed by
the housemaids in tubs, round which half-a-dozen of us
sat at a time. Woe to the last comers ! for the water was
never changed.
There are some features about British
industrial returns (now available up to end of
1903) which call for a lot of thinking. Several of
the great industries seem to have passed high-
water mark (for the time at least), and to be on a
(temporary or permanent) down grade. In 1901
the cotton used in. British factories was
1,623,000,0001 b. ; in 1903 it was down to
1 488 000 0001 b. In 1901 the wool used in British
factories was 541,000,0001 b. ; in 1903 it was
451,003, 0001 b of the whole industry
gone in two years. The pig-iron made in British
foundries was 9,421,000 tons in 1899, and only
8,935,000 tons in 1903.
f‘P;F.” on a law point :
Recent discussion in South Australia as to whether a
layman can legally hold the Attorney-Generalship recalls
some precedents. In 1860 Attorney-General Strangways,
of South Australia, was an English lawyer, but was not
admitted to the local bar ; Solicitor Scanlen, appointed to
the post in Cape Colony, in 1881, was not entitled to
audience in the Supreme Court ; present Westralian
Minister for Justice, who performs the functions of
Attorney-General, is not a lawyer. The late J. L. Parsons
(S.A.) was Acting A.-G. in the Bray Government. And
in 1897, wbife Attorney-General C. C. Kingston was
absent in England, present House of Reps. Speaker Holder
was appointed Acting-A.-G. Holder’s position was twice
challenged. First time was when the Crown Solicitor pre-
ssed “the Commission to the Supreme Court. The
Court recorded it, but, by a majority, expressed the
opinion that it did not give Holder any status in the
Courts. A few weeks later defending counsel in a case
argued that certain informations signed by the Acting
\ Tg were bad, and Justice Buudey upheld the objec-
tion. Point went to the Full Court, consisting of Acting-
Chief Justice Boucaut, Acting-Justice Russell, and
Justice Bundey. It held that the informations were
valid Justice Bundey dissenting, though less dogmatically
than’before. Said B'oueaut in his judgment: “ There i*
a <>'reat halo about the name of the Attorney-General,
but after all, it means no more than that he is attorney
for ’the Queen—her agent and representative in her
courts of law, her general attorney, in short. . . . There
is nothing'in the Constitution Act of South Australia to
require the Attorney-General himself to be a law yer ;
why the Acting Attorney-General ? ”


It would do a whole lot to set the clogged
wheels of legislation going again if a strong
- government would set an example in some Aus-
tralian State by getting the Standing Orders so
altered as to do these five things :
Ih ereOT b ° liSh the Address - in - R eply and the debate
(2) Provide that a censure debate must not last more
mirtn,Vht° "fkts-division to be taken not later than
m ’dnigiit on the second night.
mvS Provide at least two nights in the week when there
only business 161 " questlons nor ,notious of adjournment,
hour ° Ut d ° Wn aU speeches t 0 nofc more than half-an-
a Committee of the House—a sort of
omall Debts Court—which will have power to deal with
tne smah dust of grievances about the policeman who was
"! J ted tvvo . vears ago, and the bookbinder who was sus-
pended four j’ears ago, and so on.
This
Trade
Mark
mm
on
every
Garment.
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., die.
Shirts made to measure from 5/3.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN'S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
PAMPHLETS AND PRICE LISTS POST FREE.
Solb Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRA HAM & CO.
75 King Street , Sydney ,
Nenry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. lOltS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Public and
Private Balls
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
AUSTRALIAN NATIVES’ ASSOCIATION*^**
Exhibition of Australian manufactures and products
December, 1905 .
With the co-operation of the Chamber of Manufactures, and under the
patronage of the Federal and New South Wales State Ministries.
Secretary, 134 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Tel. 1499-
“Crackajack” Mouth
Organs
h,!‘, e i^ raCk f iaCk „“ n ‘ us ‘ rated below presents not only the very latest Improvements,
but IS unquestionably the best nnd most beautilul toned Mouth Organ made. ' '
The Reeds are of best bell metal alloy, tuned by experts. The frames
are of thoroughly seasoned hardwood, the reid plates are solid
brass, and every reed tongue is securely riveted. The
Tone is perfected by a system of voicing the
reeds, which makes it rich and powerful
in volume, and the reeds are
subjected to a process of
special tuning, so that
each note through-.
out the entire
register is ab-
solutely perfect
The covers are
of heavy brass,
heavily plated and
artistically engrav- V
ed. It is impossible
to fully describe these
instruments and their
musical qualities.
mM
* \L .&
i- / '/)■ '.
mmmm
:■ : -/1 '-v
iffSIpP!SS
<i|
pfcfc°
\T ":-
\7 • •
S'°
fts
pp°
G**
-tv**-
They must be seen
and used to be
: appreciated. We
L can recommend
* them as being
superior to all
other Mouth
Organs in
appearance,
quality and
tone.
Made in Four .Styles
Posted to »nv
address in the
World for 4d.
No. 1 GracKaiack ProTessional, 40 Reeds 3<-
No. 2 Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds - 21-
No. 3 Grackaiack Junior, 20 Reeds • 1/6
No. 4 Boss Gracker • • • 1/-
ALLAN & CO., 276=278 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and BotfeU ar* universally acknowledged
* X "° tJEFY COJVmsXITXOU.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS. CORDIALS, fau
Kent Brewery, gYDNEY.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph.
%
Hrrantnmg
&
G unmetal Open Face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for 3 Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia.
dS3»
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST.,'MELBOURNE
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d
We’re (Bured
Thousands !
rNO OTHER REMEDY EQUALS
ELECTRICITY !
TF any Middle-Aged or Old Man who does not feel himself as
capable to-day as he did when budding into manhood or
any Young Man who is not as perfect as he knows he ought to
be, will come or send to us, and let us apply Electricity to his
body, he will be made a Strong, Healthy, and Vigorous Being
in less than three months. You may think you have tried your
level best to be cured, you may have spent money on this
tlnng and that thing without any good results, but until you use
Electricity, and see for yourself what wonderful good it does
you, you cannot say with a clear conscience that you have done
your full duty to yourself.
w SrtL a p°?^“ n s' Current of this Natural Revitalising Blenr.nt
ovary Dull and Distil Being. No case of Weakness or Loss o7 Vita?Po™U re^to" wonlerM taSneni?" ‘°
McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
V U J “ re *°“ “ “* °”'T thoughtful
trith g ren«wu/.mMttalr^o^S^“l^ , S' i^Li “?t ""l' °T *"* to tingle
NERVO-VITAL WEAKNESS, RHZ’JMATISM.
a . _ BOURKE, N.S.W.
birs,—l cannot cease praising- your marvellous Belt for its curative
powers ;itis a God-send to Australasia—it was to me at all events. The
benefit it has imparted to my system compels me to acknowledge to the
world its proficiency as a cure for any ailment or complaint. It has
undoubtedly saved me from an untimely grave. No tongue can express
sufficient words in its praise. You are at liberty to use this statement as
you wish. Yours faithfully,
M. N. HA YARD.
ASTHMA, NERVOUS WEAKNESS.
r> ea , <s; va E fe to^ n i ® avvd J on Island » HASTINGS RIVER, N.S.W.
, ?? ar ® lrs > Your Belt has done me a lot of good :my back is all rieht
and I have not had an attack of Asthma since I have worn Tt—now nearly
s.x months ago. In fact, I have never felt better ?n health for o er 14
before weS tleVeß T 'if thi !F that I could°not'toueh
sufferingandTn t Vu* re , con ™end it to anyone who may be
sunering and in need of it. I have already mentioned it to several of mv
friends, and I would advise anyone to get your High-Grade Belt.
Yours faithfully, H. LEVIOK.
Free Book.
our FREF BOO#? *7 7 US& ELECTRICITY. WRITE OR CATE for one of
• its uses and the results obtained by it. This Book which
should be in every home contains Valuable Advice for sufferers/and gives Full Infor’nTation
about our wonderful Belts. IT COSTS YOU NOTHING! It is WtifX ilS?ted
exactly how the location of the trouble! fezcLT ** k l nds ° f Chr ° nic Ailmeilts > showing
and Addresses of m .n y cared peopiT
ationtm F? ? B, ADVIC ®» and have the working of this Wonderful Appliance explained to you All Inform
ation will be fully and freely given, and, should you desire it, a FREE TEST will be given you. HOURS: 9 a.m. to 8.30 p"m'
the dr. McLaughlin go.,
100 W. MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
And at 187 E. Swanston St., Melbourne.
00 William Street. Perth.
N.Z. Office-
-54 Willis St.. Wellington.
William Charles Crawford.
The Dp. McLaughlin
Electro-Plastic Truss
will cure any case of
RUPTURE, speedily
and permanently.
J'/je JCarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
V/je British jfiedical Journal !
says— 4
“ Benger’s Food has by its ,
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION. LONDON.
%
1
FOOD
ana
Bengcr's i'ccd is sold in Tins
fc >' Chemists, &c. everywhere.


YOU
BAD
LEG
With Wounds that discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen, that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison thatdefiesail
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated, the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds; the disease,
if allowed to continue, will deprive you of the power to walk.
You may have attended various hospitals and had medical
advice and been told your case is hopeless, or advised to
submit to amputation t but do not, for I can cure you. I
don’t say perhaps, but I will. Because others have failed
itisno reason I should. Send at once for a Box of Albert s
Grasshopper Ointment and Pills, which is a certain cure of
BadLegs,Housemaid’sKnee,UlceratedJoints, Carbuncles,
Bunions, Ringworm, Poisoned Hands, and Insect Bites.
Of all Chemists, Stores, &c. Prepared by ALBERT, 73,
Farringdon Street, London, England. Purchasers should
look for*the Registered Trade Mark of the Grasshopper
0:1 a green label on each box. (Regi tered Copyright).
A CHAIN
is no stronger than its weakest
link.”
We are no stronger than our
nerves
Weak nerves mean weakness all
over.
Strong nerves, strength all
through.
Loss of nerve force means loss
of everything worth living for.
DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a genuine nerve tonic,
because they bring about in
the only natural way a res-
toration of nerve power, a
building up of lost tissue and
appetite by the digestion and
assimilation of wholesome
food. They can’t help but
do you good.
Sold everywhere. Price, 2/6.
MOST of us
have noticed
that our child-
ish impres-
sions, even of
quite trivial
things —a pic-
ture, a scene,
a word re-
main with us
through life.
As with the
mind, so with
!bo d y. The
childish body
is extraordin-
arily suscep-
tible to a hun-
dred ailments
which, if not
cured at the
r time, often leave A
permanently in- 1
\ jurious results. M
All childish ail- B
ments—rickets, B
measles, bron- B
chitis, whooping B
cough, teething B
troubles, eczema B
diarrhoea, wast- B
ing are best H
cured by Scott’s B
Emulsion of cod B
liver oil with B
glycerine and Jp
the hypophosphites of lime
and soda.
Read this letter from Mr. W.
Foster, of Carrington Street, West
Wallsend, N. S. W., dated July
26th, 1904 :
“My little boy, James, aged four
years, was a great sufferer pom
bronchitis and croup. I obtained
preparations of various kinds, du,.
he did not receive any lasting bene-
fit. Scott’s Emulsion agreed with
him perfectly, and from the first
dose he obtained relief. In a little
while he was completely cured and
is now a fine healthy boy.
This power of curing rapidly
and permanently is character-
istic of
The explanation is that Scott’s
Emulsion is the only form of
cod liver oil which is perfectly
1 digestible, thus enabling the
system to absorb the full value
of the oil, instead of allowing
a large proportion to pass
through and go to waste, as
happens with inferior prepara-
tions. Scott ’ s Emulsion is
therefore truly economical.
Write to-day for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d. for postage and men-
tioning this paper) to Scott & Bowne
| Etd.,4B3,Kent Street, Sydney,N.S.W.
Liver Letters.
From Mr. H. W. Crisp, Ilodd-street, Dandenong, Vic., 22nd January, 1904. Late of Thorpdale,
Gippsland.
“For the past ten years I suffered from disease of the liver, experiencing a sense of weight as well
as great pain in the region of the liver, especially in the night and early morning. I had tried various
remedies, but without benefit, when Warner’s Safe Cure was favorably brought to my notice. I
decided to give tlia-t medicine & trial, and after taking a few bottles and some Warner a oafe I llis, X
found great relief. The complaint was speedily checked and the pain ceased.’’
From Mr Albert Walker, c/o Mr. F. J. Freame, Graham-st., Port Melbourne, Vic., 12th Jan., 1904.
“ For years I was suffering from disease of the liver, that organ having become enlarged, causing
phvsical prostration and mental depression. I also had severe pains in the back. The slightest touch
or pressure on the liver would cause me the most excruciating pam. I was induced to try Warner s
Safe Cure, and after taking three bottles of the medicine, my health was quite restored, and 1 became
strong and vigorous again, I take great pleasure in recommending Warner's Safe Cure as a sure and
speedy remedy for disease of the liver.”
From Mr. L. H. Howard, 3 Douglas Street, Stanmore, N.S.W., 25th January, 1904.
“I can speak in the highest terms of Warner’s Safe Cure. About live years ago I suffered
severely from liver complaint, in fact, all my digestive organs were seriously out of order. 1 tried all
kinds of liver pills and various medicines, but only got very slight relief. Eventually I was advised
by my chemist to try Warner’s Safe Cure. This I did, with every satisfaction, for after caking four
bottles, I was completely cured, and am now in the best of health.”
From Mr James Moore, Lion Hotel, Melbourne Street, North Adelaide, S.A., Bth October, 1903.
“ I have been suffering from biliousness and indigestion for several years until about two years
ao-o when I had a severe bilious fever, which prevented me from working for several wee.:s and kept
me confined to mv bed. The many medicines I tried did not seem to do me any good. At last I
decided to take Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills. I took a few bottles of the former and a
vial of the latter, when all symptoms of the complaint left me. Since then I have had no indication
of the trouble. My appetite is excellent and my digestion perfect. I can now do more, and naruer,
work than ever before in my life.”
From Miss E. Moncrieff Davidson, 1 Izett-street, Prahran, Vic., sth January, 1904.
“It is with pleasuro I acknowledge the amount of benefit I derived from taking Warner s oafe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills, when suffering from liver complaint, and other remedies had failed to
do me any good. I had a constant disposition to sick headache, a prostrated tired feeling, especially
in the spring, and susceptibility to change of seasons, but since taking Warner s Safe Cure and Pills J
have been free from all sueh symptoms.”
From Mrs. E. Howard, 31 Hyde-street, Adelaide, S.A., 7th October, 1903. ...... ~
“ I have suffered very much, at different times, for many years from liver complaint, indigestion,
and general debility. At first I paid little attention, but, getting worse as time went o:i, I began to
fear that I was on the eve of a general constitutional break-up. After trying various medicines, with-
out benefit, I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure. On inquiry, I found that many of my friends had taken
this medicine, with great and lasting benefit. Hearing such glowing accounts of the medicine, I
decided to give it a trial. It gave me almost immediate relief. In a fe\f weeks I was quite cured, and
lave had no trouble of the kind since.”
From Mr. J. W. Reid, Grocer, &c., Manchester House, 171 Johns ton-street, Colhngwood, Vio., 14th
January, 1904. .
“ Having suffered from liver complaint for many years, and found no successful remedy m doctors’
medicines I have on three different occasions taken Warner’s Safe Cure with most happy results,
m, . . , • , , • r r the Kfinond time, about five vears
on tnree ame-env uwctsimm u «... i r- , —7 r s
Che first time after taking four bottles, I was completely restored, the second time, about five years
esult with three bottles, and I am taking it now with every evidence of t e rmo
afterwards, same result wiun im-oo * —* ■ — » ** . Vf' m
success as before. I merely wish to testify to the efficacy of your invaluable medicine, nd «1
tainly recommend it to all to whom it may be a boon.
From Mr. W. F. Stanley, 5 Napier-street, Paddington, N.S.W., 19th September, .
“ I have much pieasnre in giving my experience as to what Warner’s Safe Cure did lor me. I
uffered from const i Dated bowels and severe pains in my stomach and kidneys. I often rejchec so
nuch that [ brought up pieces of the coating of my stomach. I was in the hospital three times, Out
he treatment there seemed to do me no permanent good. Finally, I was advised to gn 9 Varrer S
Safe Cure a trial. I did so, and after taking two bottles, can honestly say lam cured.
As many people find it difficult to understand why Warner’s Safe Cure cures, as it does, com-
plaints seemingly so different in character as Indigestion, Rheumatism, Biliousness, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Antenna, Debility, Blood Disorders, Gravel, Bladder Troubles, an explanation is,
er k\7arner’s Safe Cure is primarily a specific cure for all diseases of the kidneys and liver, even
Bright’s Disease, the most fatal of all diseases of the kidneys yielding to its curative properties.
°Now all the complaints abovementioned have but one origin, namely, the inability 01 th<> kidneys
and liver’ to perform their work of removing from the system uric acid and other urinary and biliary
poisons. When such poisons are retained in the body the development of or one more of the disorders
Set 1 Cure restores the kidneys and liver to health and activity, and enables them to
fulfil their allotted task of extracting these poisonous waste products from the blood, and expelling
them from the body in a natural manner. , , rj ,
As a consequence, all disorders caused by the presence of such poisons are necessarily cured. [4.J
ROBERT NURS
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
HELBOURNE.
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
No. 271 H.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr" Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 H.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
fo*
13s. 6d.
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, ail .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
“Argo” : Recently met a pill vendor who had
m pfhod of disposing of his wares. Every
boxTf contlned a numbered coupon each number
pox 01 1 11 nvi/p The prizes (which he earned
had a correspo “ (l f ' rom No. 1, a gold watch valued
aboui>ith him) rangecioiro b ,. ooch ’ va f ued at s s„ worth
The pills / cost 2s. 6d. a box. All purchasers,
as far as i know,|otNo 10. He told me one lady bought
three boxes and got two gold watches. She may have.
I wasn’t there.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Victoria’s Chamber of Manufactures is trying to
combat the silly prejudice against Australian goods by in-
stituting a series of afternoon teas, at which the ladies
nresent are addressed upon the duty of supporting their
own country’s industries. But, after all, this is a cir-
cuitous and ineffectual device, though it may be the best
one available at the moment. If there were a 75 per cent,
duty on imports, then people would use local goods, ana
if there were a rigid law against adulteration, mis-
representation and false labels, then they would know
that they were using these goods, and the prejudice
would wear off by compulsion. At present it doesn t wear
off because special efforts are made to cultivate it. For
instance, one big Australian providery gets its best and
finest bedsteads from a local maker because they are better
than anything it can get in England at the price. It im-
ports its cheap gimcracks because the Australian firm
doesn’t manufacture such. Then the big frock-coated man
who makes his income out of Australia, and who, if there
were no such place as Australia, might be a sandwich man
in London, comes in and wants “ a really good English
bedstead—none of your colonial rubbish.” And when he
gets the Australian bedstead he remarks that they do
know how to make things in England. Meanwhile the
universal providery sells the English gimcrack as a
cheap local article.” And until there is such a duty put
on the imported bedstead that that fat and unpatriotic
ruffian will know that the universal providery person
must be lying, the Australian article will have no visible
chance to get the credit it deserves. Bedstead making is
a very old industry in Sydney—one of the oldest —and
a good proportion of the inhabitants sleep (uncon-
sciously) on the local article. But such vigorous efforts
have been made by the retailers to conceal the industry
and represent the goods as imported that the shameful
fact of Australia having an industry has been almost
hidden from the general public. It would be a terrible
thing if it leaked out.
* * * *
A well-placed officer in one of the State s audit
departments owned up in a Bankruptcy Court, the other
day, that he had been paying 120 per cent, interest.
* * * *
Traders in Canada have adopted in a wholesale
way a stamp for branding 1 their home products and their
correspondence: •“ Keep your money in circulation at
home by buying goods made in Canada,” with a beaver
and maple-leaf by way of decoration. But they also
plaster 50 per cent, or more of duty on the foreigners’
goods ; and that’s a stronger hint than a thousand beavers
and a forest of maple leaves.
• * * *
Some of England’s white slaves recently gave
British Home Workers’ Ass. a detailed account of how
they earned a “ living.” An artificial-flower maker
worked eighteen hours a day in an underground cellar
for l|d. an hour. Another drew ten whole shillings per
week with the help of her bed-ridden mother. A choco-
late-box maker worked eighteen hours a day beside the
bed of her child, dying of consumption (“Best English
chocolates, unexcelled for purity ”) ; while tailoresses told
of getting as high as lOd. (ten whole, genuine pennies,
mind you) for turning out a finished tailor-made coat and
skirt! These are the Freetrade conditions of Freetrade
Britain, against which Australian Freetraders (including
some Laborites) would have Australian workers compete.
• * *
“ Galvo ” : A par in a recent Bulletin pointed
out how Australian woollen mills and hat factories branded
their products with British trade marks in order to over-
come the curious prejudice that the Australian native has
against his own country’s goods. I was recently taken
over a large boot factory by an enthusiastic manager, who
pointed with pride to the numerous improvements he had
effected and the modern machines he had installed. By
new machinery and good management he had succeeded
in reducing the average cost of a pair of boots by 2s. 9d.
We came to the branding room last of all. Half-a-dozen
girls were branding the boots with a trade mark represent-
ing a screaming eagle with wings outstretched over the
name of an American town. “ That,” said the manager
sorrowfully, “is what we have to come down to in order
to compete with American boots. With that brand on
we can get 3s. a pair more than if we put our own names
on, as in all honesty we should do.” It did seem a pitiful
travesty on Australian patriotism. By means of brains
2s. 9d. could be saved ; by lies and deception it was pos-
sible to make 3s. __ r f
The Raratongan native dealer drives steamship
officials to the verge of madness. The mild brown
islander possesses as many names as that Spanish Premier
w'ho employed three clerks to carry his initials down-
stairs when he retired, and when shipping fruit, etc.,
uses sometimes one, sometimes another, as his fancy
leads him. The multiplicity of marks or brands causes
endless trouble—between 800 and 1000 different marks
in one shipment is the usual thing. If the brown gentle-
man has four bags to ship he sends one through each of
four different companies, and each under a different
brand and name, and then tries to get tick at the four
stores. The worry of all this is driving the white trader
into an earlv grave under the palm tree.
# * * *
“ Assayer ” : Anybody can claim to be an
assayer or metallurgist, whether he has been to a Mining
School and passed exams, or not. If a man has been
assisting an assayer for, say, 12 months, and gets an idea
of things, he grabs the first billet as metallurgist that
comes along. He knows he isn’t worth much, and he
doesn’t ask much. If the ore is the same as he is used to
treating he gets on fairly well; if anything goes wrong he
doesn’t. Of course, he is fired out, but he has done the
damage—he has cut the wages. And all the time students
are being turned out of the different schools at a pro-
digious rate. Now, the assayer’s business differs from
that of a doctor or lawyer. The latter can set up in
any town ; we have to crowd to the big mining centres.
This helps in the wage-cutting, for the supply is concen-
trated. Managers now expect to get a first-class assayer
for £5 or £6 a week. Many companies give much less.
The chemist on one big Kalgoorlie mine only gets £3 a
week. Ordinary laborers get 10s. a shift, and miners more.
And remember that living is nearly always expensive on
the mining fields, where our work lies. While we wait
for something to turn up, a great many of us are driven
to clerking, trucking, or a joh about the mill. Even in
this line, we stand a poor show, because, in many cases,
we haven’t had the physical training to compete with the
ordinary navvy. Assayers sometimes have charge of thou-
sands of ounces of gold ; yet co.’s expect to get a good
honest man for £6 a week. The other day, they were
advertising for a man to go up North to Leonora. He
must be a first-class mining manager, and have a thorough
knowledge of cyaniding and assaying ; salary £8 per week.
At Leonora ! A very ordinary carpenter gets £5 a week
for six days, and when his eight hours are up he is finished.
But the manager is never finished, must keep up a decent
appearance, and work seven days a week ; and in most
cases it’s the same with the assayer.
* * • *
The familiar proverb-puzzle swindle was exposed
in an English county court the other day. A firm adver-
tised that it was giving away 1000 bicycles to those who
filled in the blank letters in the following series of
poverbs:—
H—NES—Y IS B—ST P—LICY.
A R-LL—NG ST—NE G-TH—RS NO M—SS.
L —OK —RE Y— LEAP.
NE-ER L-T A—GRY PAS—IONS R—SE.
A P—NNY S—V—D IS P —NNY .
NEVER TILL T—MORR—W WII— YOU
C—N DO T— D—Y.
“If you can only write four we shall give you a four-
guinea phonograph outfit or sewing-machine,” an-
nounced the firm. One man answered, and got a
reply that he was a winner by his “promptness
and cleverness,” and was asked to send 2s. 6d.,
which entitled him to receive a certain publication for six
months. That a bicycle was to be sent, some time or
other was hinted. Then the man worried the firm, and
was finally told that he would get the £l2 bicycle if he
paid £lO for it. He worried some more, and got insulting
letters for his pains. He took proceedings, and the
Court awarded him £lO damages, with costs, against the
puzzle people. * * *
Said that, not content with 5 per cent, on rents
collected, a great many Melbourne estate agents obtain a
secret commission of 10 per cent, on all moneys spent on
repairs. For a petty job, such as the washing out of a
house or the cleaning of chimneys, it is not usual to
render vouchers, and double the true amount paid out is
often charged against an owner. Also deposits forfeited
by intending tenants are seldom accounted for. For
these reasons, ’tis said, rent-collectors in Melbourne who
“ do a guy ” with cash are very rarely prosecuted ; there
would be too much dirty linen displayed.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11 •• - 100,000 at 5/2 each.
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Canterbury Park, N.S.W., October 2 ••• 50,000 at 5/2 each.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Vic., October 21 ... - - ••• 100,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Fleming'ton, Vic., November 7
100,000 at 5/2, 100,000 at 10/4, and Special
(drawn morning, day of race) 100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss* Ticket, and 4(/. on each 10s* Ticket* Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
rm
KEEP YOUR.
BILLS DOWN
&
fW4.iMljj
By
PirrcL csing
YOUR CLOTHING
FROM
Lincoln, Stuart
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
$ Co.
Ctd.
No Matter Where
you live and with no more
trouble than the writing of
a letter you can through
the Post Office bring our
Warehouse to your door.
FAMOUS
Two Guinea
(TO MEASURE) Suits
Wri e for Patterns and
Self-measure FORMS.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BE3-WA.RE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sydney Stock and Share Broker expresses
Gratitude and Appreciation of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
It proved a most effective remedy for a
severe attack of Bronchitis.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I lately had a severe
attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased
to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a
valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve. I place this communica'--
tion at vour service, and remain, Dear Sir, Yours
faithfullyj HENRY FRENCH,
Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A Five Years case.
At times very bad indeed.
Quickly and completely Cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was
troubled with asthma, at times very bad indeed. 1 was
very ill just after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist
for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I took
the first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that
night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a
touch of the asthma since. I tell everyone about it.
M. MURRAY.
Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A Severe Attack Believed in Ten Minutes
by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
The Effect was Wonderful.
Mr. W. G. Hearne Dear Sir, —About three weeks ago,
while, in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt
a difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all
appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bron-
chitis or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I
then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was
wonderful. ” In less than ten minutes I was all right
again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me.
This is no exaggeration, I am pleased to say.—Yours
truly, S. H. MAYO, Meredith, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A Sydney Resident Suffered for Over Sixty
Years.
So Bad He Dared Not Stir.
Relieved in a Few Minutes by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Would Give £5O for the Same Benefit rather
than Suffer.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Friend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and
I am now 66 years old. Some time back I contracted
Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy
that had previously relieved smothering was of no use to
me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the
worst night I ever had. When, in a conversation, Mr.
Marsh, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a
friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and that it
was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in
a few minutes after taking the first dose I could breathe a
little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better
every day. To-day lam better than I have been for the
last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six
bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would give £5O for
the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make
what use of this letter you think fit. If by so doing it
would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.
—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM,
108 Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Its Efficacy in chest complaints testified to
by a Grateful Victorian.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in
adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years,
and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest com-
plaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it
to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure
with a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my
friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative
properties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medi-
cine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to any-
one. Trusting its present popularity and sales will be
doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES,
Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Yic.
BRONCHITIS.
An English Lady so ill that the Doctor
held out no hope.
Was given Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and it
effected a complete recovery.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir. —Not long- since I had occasion
to visit the old country, and before leaving Melburne pur-
chased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took
with me. When I arrived in Leeds I found that my niece,
Miss 0. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack
of Bronchitis, in fact, she was so bad that the family doctor
held out no hope of her recovery. She was then given
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure according to the direction on
the label, and I am very pleased to say that it effected a
complete cure. " R. J. MATTHEWS,
c/o Allan & Co., Collins-st., Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age cured by Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure.
Sir, —I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent
for asthma has had a wonderful effect. I have not taken
all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it ; therefore
I send you my hearty good wishes for your future success.
I myself will, for the benefit of others, make it known to
all I know. lam 73 years of age. —Yours truly,
JOHN BxtAY,
Alliance-street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA.
Two Severe Cases cured by One Bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward without
delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
bottle I had from you has cured two of my children, but I
do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also re-
commended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three
years of age, from influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia. I
really believe if I had had your medicine my child would
not have died, for the other two, a boy five years old, and
a baby 8 months old, were suffering exactly in the same
way, and it acted like magic on them ; in fact, a small
bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward
it without delay—l am, yours most gratefully,
(Mrs.) E. D. WARD.
Cassilis, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
A Queensland Sufferer from Bronchitis.
Seventy-two years of age, weak and
Wasted.
The Doctor considered it a hopeless-case.
Cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I beg leave to draw your
attention to a remarkable Cure of Bronchitis, which disease
attacked me last May. It was looked upon by the doctor
as a hopeless case. In such an extremity I naturally
looked about for something to try. I thought it a hard
thing, after 72 years’ experience of the ups and downs of
this life, to die in such an inglorious manner ; besides, I
was very poor in flesh, and thin, and this stimulated me
to make_an effort for recovery, if only to improve my con-
dition. I saw your Bronchitis Cure advertised', and
thought I would give it a trial, so I sent to W. 11. Harris,
chemist, Gill-street, Charters Towers, and got a small
bottle of it. I had scarcely finished it when .I gave up all
thought of leaving my wife a widow, and hopefully looked
forwarded to many more delightful days of up and downs,
principally downs. The second small bottle caused the
Bronchitis and me to part company, greatly to its regret,
I opine. The third bottle stood me on my legs to receive
the congratulations of my friends.
I have been a resident of Charters Towers for 30 years,
and, being gifted with the spirit of good fellowship) have
not the least objection to you making any use of this
testimonial you think proper, as a means of relieving
others similarly situated to myself.
JOHN SHEPHERD,
Queenton, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Relieved by one dose of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, and cured by two bottles.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony
to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for nine months, and the coug-h was so dis-
tressingly bad at nights, I was obliged to get up and sit
by the fire. I had medical advice, and tried other
remedies, without avail. I tried yours, and never had a
fit of coughing after taking the first dose, and though I
have had but two bottles, I feel I am a different man, and
the cough has vanished. You may depend upon my
making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to
anyone I see afflicted.—Yours faithfully,
JAMES ASTBURY,
Dergholm, Victoria.
HEABNE’S BRONCHITIS CURB—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch,, depot Qjg ce . jj 0i § f Fi rs t Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Good for the hands,
Good for the clothes,
SUNLIGHT SOAP
GOOD FOR METAL,
GOOD FOR WOODWORK,
MONKEY BRAN®
PAINS th n e BACK
PROMPTLY PRIVEN OUT.
“ ~gW|OR several Winters,” says
Jj Mr. F. McKinney, a builder
and contractor, of 74 Regent-
street, North Richmond, Vic., “I
was troubled with pains across the
small of my back, for which I tried
several so-called remedies, but with
unsatisfactory results. Seeing Zam-
Buk advertised, I applied it, rubbing-
well into the parts affected. This
treatment promptly drove out the
pains. That was several months
ago, since when I have had no return of the pains whatever. X can with
confidence recommend Zam-Buk to others similarly afflicted.
ZAM-BUK is a PROVED CURE for PILES. ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING
SORES, SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA,
etc. As an EMBROCATION'Tor STRAINED MUSCLES and TENDONS, ZAM-
BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSEHOLD
BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, PIMPLES, BLACKHEADS, SORE THROAT,
SORE CHEST, CHAPPED HANDS, CHILBLAINS, and SORE FEET, ZAM-
BUK is INVALUABLE. From all Medicine Vendors at 1/6, or 3/6 FAMILY SIZE
(containing nearly four times the quantity), or from THE ZAM-BUK CO., 39 PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
&
m
•»
“Rub it in
The Author Calls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Author knew that I was ill, and to my
room confined,
And thought I might be left too much
alone;
3o to elevate my spirits, and distract my brooding
mind,
He came and read me stories of his own.
He did not start on them at once—he thought that
might be wrong—
But gradually brought the talk about
To novels of the age, and then a parcel large and
long
From underneath his waistcoat he drew out.
Two novels in that parcel were, both still in manu-
script.
“The world shall soon be taken by surprise,
But you shall hear the stories first”—my hand
the author gripped,
And tears of kindness glistened in his eyes.
He started off to read ere I my senses had re-
gained,
And when I woke his voice was going strong ;
Full forty mortal chapters “ Sons of Belial ” con-
tained,
And “Kiss Me Quick” was thirty columns long.
He read with fire and emphasis, his cheeks were
all aglow—
For he was much in earnest all the time —
And now his voice in triumph rang, and now was
soft and low,
With pathos and with sympathy sublime.
He read his screed with all his might, he scorned
to use a chair,
But up and down the room walked, straight and
stiff;
Then suddenly he clenched his hands, and reeled
and clutched the air—
He was wrestling with the villain on the cliff.
For four long hours he read and raved—alas, what
could I do ?
I could not fight, I could not rise and fly;
I dared not call his story Rot, for all too well I
knew
Insanity was lurking in his eye.
At last he left me broken up—a helpless, hopeless
wreck,
And said, “ Old man, I cannot longer stay ;
But if the stories I have read have kept your pains
in check,
I’ll come and read you fresh ones every day.”
The famished wolf his prey may leave—which
wolves but seldom do—
The crocodile may with his victim part,
But the author with a chance to read his manu-
scripts to you,
Alas, he has no pity in his heart.
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
The Grass-Fed Handicap.
[FOR THE BLLETIN.]
club had decided to have a Grass-
H fed Handicap in its programme for the
next meeting. The race was for all horses
that had eaten nothing but grass for a month
prior to the meeting. They were to be the pro-
perty of members of the club, and to measure not
less than 10 inches round the canon bone. At
first it met with the enthusiastic approval ot
every member of the club. It would keep the
money in the district at any rate. They held
different opinions, though, as to which particular
member ought to keep the money. When several
of them found that their horses were not 10 inches
round the required spot, they began to grumble
about the race being made for two or three.
Anyhow, it was understood that there would be
eight horses in the race. Doolan, the starter ;
Regan, the judge; Delaney, M‘Nab, old Frost,
and three others had horses for the event.
Delaney was the only man about who had corn
just then ; he had kept it back for a rise. The
others had sold theirs at Is. 6d. a bushel. About
a month before the races Doolan strolled across
to Delaney’s, and very nearly caught him giving
his horse half a gin-case of corn. When Delaney
-saw Doolan he started shouting “ Chuck ! chuck ! ”
and scattering the corn to the fowls. Doolan
asked him if it paid to give corn to fowls.
Delaney assured him it did—paid well, in fact.
Doolan said he thought so too, and came to buy a
couple of bags for his fowls. Within a week, the
other six, who had horses for the grass-fed handi-
cap, came and bought corn for their fowls.
Delaney charged them ss. a bushel for it. He
said corn had riz.
M‘Nab sent his boy over to Doolan’s for the
loan of a spade, and told him to have a good look
round while he was there. Doolan was nice to
the boy, called him a grand little chap, and went
inside and brought him a lump of bread; spread
■ over with pumpkin jam half-an-inch thick.
“Now, y’re a bright little bi,” said Doolan;
tell me this : Is it better t’ give a harse cor-r-rn
:raw or biled ? ”
“ Dunno,” said the lad ; “ but father says if yer
■cook it, it makes ’em soft, but it’s better fer old
•bosses what has no teeth.”
“ That’s thrue ; y’re a bright lad, indade. An
-it makes thim saft? Then yer father wouldn’t
ibile it fer Bruce ? ”
“ Oh no ; he—he ** The lad suddenly re-
-membered that his father promised to break his
neck if he told—“he don’t never give ’im any,
'cos ’e’s in th’ race.”
“ Oh, av coorse, I forgot.” And Doolan walked
"away, muttering to himself, “A cunnin’ little
•brat that.”
He met his own boy coming up from the yard.
’S’ll right, dad. I put the corn back m the
'bag, an’ ’unted Split-the-Wind inter th’ other
paddick.” .
Doolan’s boy and M‘Nab’s boy then got into
•conversation. Doolan’s boy told M fc Nabs boy
'that they gave Split-the-Wind four dippers of
corn a day, and M‘Nab’s boy said that they gave
Bruce a bucket of corn every night. They didn t
:feed him in the day.
A wgelt before the races Doolan and his new
'man were digging round stumps in the cultivation.
'The other man, Micko, was ploughing. The new
.*nan had been with Doolan three months. They
were talking about the race, and the new man was
fresh from Sydney, and knew a bit about racing
and cognate matters. . , „
“ Tell yer ’ow yer could make a bit out o it,
he said, sticking his spade in the ground and sit-
ting on the stump.
“ How ? ” inquired Doolan, digging away.
“Well, fust yer wanter make a book on the
race. Each o’ yer wanter put a fiver, or whatever
yer like, in the bag. Then put a strong bridle on
all of ’em, ’cept one.”
“ Strong bridle ? What d’ye mane ? ”
“ Why, blime, stiffin ’em. _ ’Ave ’em eld,
don’t yer see?” and the man jerked his mouth
round under his left ear. Doolan became inter-
ested, and stopped digging. The man sat down
in the shade, and went on : “ This’d be th best
move. Get’m all t’ bring their hosses on ter the
track Sund’y mornin’ fer a trial gallop. Tell a
few o’ ’em on Friday that yer was goin’ ter ave a
run, but caution ’em not ter say nothin’. Ther d
bound t’ be fifty o’ ’em planted about watchm th
race. Tell the riders t’ go at ’em whip an’ spur
from the jump. Course th’best’oss’d win. ihe
’ole bloomin’ country’d know about it before th’
day o’ th’ race. Then stiffin ’em all but th one
that was absolute last. _ Yer could lay any odds
yer liked agin ’em, an’ jist take it from a bloke
what knows all about the game, ye’d stand t
scoop in a lovely’undred in one act.”
“Go an’ ketch me th’ harse,” Doolan said, and
the man went off, whistling “ They Know When
They’ve Collared a Mug.”
When Doolan came home that night, he told
the man it was all arranged—that all the others
agreed to put in a fiver, and if he (the man)
would make the book, they’d give him a pound
for himself. The man smiled, and said he didn’t
want anything out of it, thanks, but under great
pressure he consented to accept ten shillings.
The trial gallop came off on Sunday morning.
There were thirty or forty persons watching it
from behind logs and hidden in the bushes. It
was a close finish for first place, but Delaney’s
horse won by a neck. There was a great fight for
last place between Doolan’s Split-the-Wind and
old Frost’s Flying Pieman. Flying Piemans
rider rode him for all he was worth, but Doolan’s
man didn’t ride Split-the-Wind right out. He
might not have beaten the other even if he did,
but Doolan had told the man to run last. He
didn’t say why.
The night before the meeting all the riders in
the Grass-fed Handicap met down in the creek
behind Delaney’s. Walker, Doolan’s new man,
who was going to make the book, was speaking:
“ It’s as good as bein’ in a bloomin’ bank. Y’see
they’re goin’ ter put a fiver in each. I’ll lay sich
tempin’ odds, the crowd’s bound ter rush it. We’ll
all put our bit in too, so I’ll ’ave plenty o’ beans
ter flash in their faces an’ draw the punters. Then
Dent ’ere can sail ’ome on Flyin’ Pieman, an’ we
land a lovely pile. ’Course our bloomin’ bosses’ll
be waitin’ fer Split-the-Wind ter win, but let ’em
wait. We want th’money worse’n them. Micko’ll
’ave ter clear fer not winnin’ or Doolan’ll kill ’im ;
but you’ll be flush, Micko, any’ow. Now, let’s
dub up.”
They dubbed up to the extent of £l4 10s.
The course was crowded. In order to bring the
meeting up to date, Regan decided to time each
race ; but the start couldn’t be seen on account of
the scrub. The only part of the race that could
be seen was the last 200 yards. They got over
this difficulty by starting the horses to the report
of a gun. In the first race Regan was standing
in the middle of the course fiddling about with
the watch, waiting for the gun to go off, when the
crowd began to yell “’Ere they are ! lookout!”
and Regan had a narrow escape. The wind was
the wrong way, and he didn’t hear the gun. Next
time he put three charges of powder in the old
single-barreled weapon, and rammed it down
tight. He reckoned he’d hear that when it went
off.
The Grass-fed Handicap was the next race.
Doolan rode across with the gun to start them.
Walker was laying the odds. Such a liberal
bookmaker was never seen on a course before.
After booking a few bets at 4 or 5 to 1, he offered
10 to 1 against the field, and if the betting public
wouldn’t come fast enough at that he’d give them
15 or 20 to 1. Old Delaney came up and rebuked
him for laying a man thirty pounds to two Split-
the-Wind. . t
“Dammit, man,” said he; “what’re y’ doin
that for ? He’s goin’ t’ win, an’ y’ll have t’ pay
that thirty pounds.”
“You jist leave this business ter the man on
the job. I know what I’m doin’.”
“Well, divil a one else knows,” snarled Delaney,
as he walked off.
The crowd bet heavily on that race. Walker
could hardly take the money fast enough. He
laid against every horse in the race—even against
Split-the-Wind, that the owners wanted to win,
and Flying Pieman, that he and the riders wanted
to win. He looked wild enough to lay ten to one
against Providence.
Micko, on Split-the-Wind, had the inside run-
ning, but the horse was a lazy, sleepy brute, and
it was always necessary to begin welting him a
couple of minutes before you wanted him to start,
so to him position was a matter of small import-
ance. He was generally asleep, and it took a lot
to wake him. The eight horses lined up, and
Doolan cocked his gun. Split-the-Wind began to
nod, and let a piece of his tongue fall out of his
mouth. Doolan kicked his old piebald forward,
and said to Micko, “Dammit, man, wake ’im up.”
Then he said “Wake up” to the horse, giving
him a vicious prod behind the ear with the gun.
The gun went off, and nearly blew the ear off.
That woke him up. He sprang into the air, and
emptied Micko oyer his tail, and then trotted off
with long strides, his head to one side and his tail
to the other. , . , . „. .
The old piebald that Doolan rode in his official
capacity had never been under fire before. When
the gun went off, she threw her head down and
jumped backwards. Doolan, not being prepared
for the manoeuvre, dived oyer her head, and
poked the muzzle of the gun into the dirt. He
did the same with his own muzzle, and lay
groaning.
Talk about horses jumping away at a start !
They did jump away. Flying Pieman and
Mullins’ old mare jumped round and bolted back
in the wrong direction. Others jumped away
through the timber in all directions. Two of the
riders were scraped off against trees. Three
others pulled up at a cockatoo fence, and got off,
lit their pipes, and calculated how much their
shares would come to when Flying Pieman won.
The disastrous start just suited them. No one
could blame them for the horses bolting, they
said. . ,
Mullins’ mare staked herself against a limb.
Flying Pieman, with Dent sawing at his mouth,
raced round until he saw the crowd. Then he
propped suddenly, and Dent went over his head,
but was soon up and after him again. Delaney
galloped across to the starter.
“ Where are th’ horses ? ” he asked Doolan.
“ They haven’t kem round yet.’ .
Doolan sat up and clawed some dirt out of his
eyes, and looked round and saw Micko lying a
few yards away, and Split-the-Wind asleep under
“Oh, be th’ limpin’ Jim! We’re robbed,
Delaney. What won ? ”
“Nothing won yet, I tell yer! None av’em
kem round yet.”
Just then they saw Flying Pieman surrounded
by all the riders trying to catch him.
Doolan caught Split-the-Wind and pulled him
across to Micko, Delaney persuading him behind
with a waddy.
“Up y’ go, Micko,” said Doolan.
“ Oh, I can’t. Me leg’s broke.”
“No matther if yer neck was broke, y’ll have t’
ride the harse round an’ win, man, or we're all
ruined.”
Doolan pushed Micko into the saddle. Micko
fell off the other side. Doolan ran round and
lifted him up that side, and he fell off the other.
Doolan ran round and put him up again, and
darted round quickly to keep him from falling off.
Micko tumbled off the same side as he was put on.
“Look sharp,” said Dekney, “they’ve caught
him.”
Doolan looked and saw Dent coming towards
the start at a thundering pace. He yelled, “ Oh,
th’ rogues ! —swindlin’ crawlers ! —I see it all now.”
He jumped on to Split-the-Wind.
“ Give him up t’ me, Delaney. I’ll make him
stay on, an’ we’ll win yet wid th’ help of God.”
Then Split-the-Wind got really going with
Micko across the pommel, using frightful language,
and Doolan taking no notice of him, but working
his heels like a bit of machinery. The weight
began to tell on Split-the-Wind, and Dent raced
up alongside of Doolan, shouting in his excite-
ment : “I’ve got yer ! I’ve got yer !”
“Y’ have not; but I got you,” said Doolan,
reaching out and grabbing him by the neck.
He gave a tug. Dent clawed on to him as he
came out of the saddle. Micko started to slip, and
clawed on to Dent, and all three came down in a
heap. . ~
Just then a boy came running up and said:
“Mister Doolan, come on quick. Walker’s done
a get with the money, an’ Mister M‘Nab went
mad when he heerd it; he went round cussin’ an’
roarin’ like a mad bull. The p’liceman arst him
to stop, an’ he gave the trap an almighty swipe,
an’ they had to kerry him home on a sheet o’ bark
off the booth. M'Nab’s stampin’about through
the crowd an’ cussin’ most ’orrible.”
“ But where is he ? ” screeched Doolan.
“Oh, Mister Regan, you mean. He—he—he
took a fit. Seven of ’em can’t hold him on the
ground.” _ , _ „
“To th’ fiend wid M‘Nab an Ragan! Tell
me, you spawn o’ th’ divil. Where’s he ; where’s
Walker ? ” , t ,
“ Oh, when you fired the gun for the start, he
muster started too. Any’ow, they can’t find him
nowhere.” . , . , ~ ,
Doolan fell on his knees, raised his hands high
above his head, turned the whites of his eyes to
the sky, and said, fervently, “May the vingmce
ov a great an’ powerful Justice overtake th swin-
dlin’ crawler.” Then his head fell on his chest
as he murmured, “Worse than Judas! —robbed!
—swindled !—ruined ! ”
The boy’s information acted like magic on Dent
and Micko. They started to sprint towards the
booth, Micko, whose broken bone seemed to have
suddenly mended, taking the lead.
PAUL CUPID.


KIDNEY COMPLAINT
COMES on UNNOTICED
You Don't Know You
Have It Until It Has You.
N.
0
u
IS
&
So quiet is
kidney disease
in its approach
that it is often
mistaken for
some other
complaint. The
woman who is
tired all the day,
sleepless the
night through;
who is anaemic,
irritable, ner-
vous, who suf-
fers from dizzy
spells, rheuma-
tism, headache;
whose eyelids
are puffy and
swollen puts
down her
trouble to some
female com-
plaint instead
of to the real
cause —T H E
K IDNE YS.
The man whose
back is weak,
whose limbs
drag, who has
distressing urinary troubles, dropsy, gravel—he never sus-
pects liis kidneys, which are the real cause of his illness.
This is why kidney disease is so serious and so generally
fatal. If YOU don’t feel as well as you ought, DO NOT
NEGLECT YOUR KIDNEYS ANOTHER DAY. Be-
cause our neighbors—Sydney men and women —tell so
earnestly and sincerely how Doan’s Pills have cured them.
A SYDNEY MAN’S TESTIMONY.
“Doan's Pills completely cured me of Backache/'
Mr. 0. Wickes, Waiwera, Wardell-road, Pe tens ham, this city, says:—
“ Some months ago I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for pains in the
small of my back, and this medicine cured me. The first two boxes did me
no good ; but a friend who had used them persuaded me to go on with the
treatment. lam glad I did so, for a few more boxes completely cured me.
The backache was worse when I moved about; it would very often leave
me when I rested. Previous to using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills I had
used many remedies without obtaining the slightest relief.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all Chem-
ists and Storekeepers at 2s
9d per box (six boxes 15s
3d), or will be posted on
receipt of price by FOSTER-
McCLELLA N CO., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
,IACI(ACH|
si ;r
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
Any person takes serious chances in
neglecting an attack of piles. This ailment
has a tendency to become chronic, and there
is also a further tendency to ulceration and
forming of fistula, which we know are most
difficult to cure.
The safest remedy for any form of piles,
whether itching or protriwling, is Doan’s
Ointment. In using it tliCTe is no detention
from daily occupation, and the many cures
made by it have made it famous in every
corner of the world. Any chemist will tell
you that it enjoys a‘greater demand and
more enthusiastic popularity than any other
pile remedy ever placed on the market.
Mr. Joseph Holland, 222 Cleveland-street,
city, states :—“The advertisement that is
published from time to time in Sydney
papers to the that Doan’s Ointment
cured me of piles is quite true.
Before I used Doan’s Ointment I thought
I would never get a remedy to do me any
good. I had them for seven years, and they
caused me intense pain, and a most teasing
irritation. It is two years ago since I made
the statement, and, if Doan’s Ointment
wasn’t a real good thing I would have had
some return of the trouble—instead I am as
free of Itching Piles as when I made the
statement. Doan’s Ointment took all the
venom out of the trouble these couple of
years. It is a marvellous Ointment. Any-
body may rely on it giving absolute ease.”
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure Itching Piles. It will
cure them absolutely. But do not take the
manufacturer's word for this, ask Mr. Hol-
land. He knows, for it cured him, and he
lives here in Sydney. Is not that the best
possible kind of proof? Could there be better?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
per pot, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney , N.S.W.
REMEMBER THE NAME-DOAN’S.
The Packmen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PACKING out from Wonga Town,
Jingling bell and hobble chain’
Carry back to Eyes of Brown,
Long farewells across the plain,
Tears that put her smiles to rout
As we take the road again,
Packing out.
Packing north from Wonga Town,
Packs are heavy, hearts are light
As a shred of thistledown,
Jogging through the starry night.
Jest and laughter, riding forth,
Packs are steady, girths are tight,
Packing north.
Sailing out from storied Greece
Went the Argonauts of old,
Do we win the golden fleece,
Or but follow phantom gold ?
Truce to travail, truce to doubt,
Fortune smiles upon the bold,
Packing out.
Stringing down the rutted track,
Leagues of distance lie before.
Bay and roany, brown and black ;
Barren ridge and reedy shore ;
Days of flood and days of drought,
Ere we head the brumbies back,
Packing out.
Hoofbeats on the stony steeps
Out beyond the blue bush plain
Where the desert eagle keeps
Soaring watch oh his domain,
Monarch of the earth and sky,
Wheeling in the azure deeps,
Far on high.
Mornings musical with song,
Horse-bell, bird-bell, all a-tune,
Slumber ’neath the kurrajong
Through the sunny summer noon ;
Eyes of purple, when the sun
Sinks, and with the flooding moon
Day is done.
Midnights with the stars a-blink,
Summer midnights, clear and cool,
Ponies thudding in to drink
Deeply at the rocky pool,
Haunt of pigeons, in their flight
Over from the desert’s brink
Swift as light.
Earth beneath—and overhead
Dome of the o’er-arching sky ;
What was it old Omar said
“Crawling, cooped, we live and die ” ?
Joy of life, in scorn of doubt
Gives the Persian sage the lie
Packing out.
We shall end our roving quest
Underneath some giant blow
Where the lowan builds her nest
Hidden in the brigalow—
Gravel rattling in the dish,
Shakers rocking to and fro,
Sieves a-swish.
Packing in to Wonga Town,
Back between the desert gates,
Fortune’s smile or Fortune’s frown ?
Leave it to the kindly Fates,
''Careless we, or lose or win,
Slugs or only pennyweights,
Packing in.
"W. A.
THE PRODIGAL.
A North Island (Maoriland) magistrate re-
cently put up a record by issuing 200 liquor pro-
hibition orders in about a fortnight, and the glad
tidings went round that another old lady was
hitting the Atlantic with her broom. Prohibition
■orders are bald intimations to Mr. and Mrs. Public-
house that they mustn’t supply drink to John
Jones, ditto John Smith, ditto John Brown, ditto
J ohn Thomson, also John each of the surnames of
Robinson, Ferguson, White, Green, &c., &c.,
likewise William and James, each of the same ilk,
not to omit Thomas, Samuel, Joseph, Charles,
and Alfred. And as the prohibited person often
looks just like any other person, and sometimes
looks even more like any other person than the
non-prohibited one, and Mr. and Mrs. Public-
house, in many cases, can only guess at him by his
nose, which he may have dimmed with flour or
otherwise put into concealment, the whole busi-
ness is a sorry joke.
The British Parliamentary committee’s
report on African war scandals is an astonishing
document: —
General Butler was chairman. The facts are, that in
June, 1902, there were in South Africa accumulations of
food supplies sufficient to feed more than 300,000 men
and 200,000 animals for four months, and valued by Kit-
chener at from £6,000,000 to £7,000,000. Before leaving
Africa, Kitchener organised a special sales department
to get rid of this immense mass of material. Colonel
Morgan was placed at its head. This officer was Director
of Supplies, as well as Director of Sales, and while he
was to sell stores, he was at the same time to buy
them. Then came upon the scene the brother of
Colonel Morgan, F. C. Morgan, who was agent for what is
described as a family concern, known as Meyer and Co.
This firm was in the happy position of at once selling to
Colonel Morgan and buying from him the same goods.
It bought at a low price and sold at a high one. Meyer
himself, the hero of the report, is described as “a person
possessing a remarkable mental grasp of the necessities of
a financial situation. All are agreed in that,” says the
report, innocently, “ though he is spoken of by many wit-
nesses in different terms, and various nationalities are
ascribed to him.” The Pay Department calls him “ a very
difficult man to get money from,” but evidently he was an
easy man to pay money to.
For oats, it is stated in the report, the Army paid Mr.
Meyer 17s. lid. per 1001 b., and received from him 11s., his
modest profit being 6s. lid. per 1001 b. F. Morgan’s share
in the profits arising from a single sale of chaff was £613,
from which one may gather what sums Meyer made.
The Committee declare that the progress of the inquiry
has been accompanied by “ the growth of an increasing
sense of suspicion,” until “the idea of even culpable
negligence had to be abandoned, and in its place the
impression of cleveif-arranged contrivance substituted.”
“The Committee,” the report states, “hold Colonel
Morgan entirely responsible for the grave scandals which
have arisen through his brother’s connection with con-
tracting firms . . . and consider that he acted entirely
in opposition to the spirit and traditions of the army.”
“The spirit and traditions of the Army” evi-
dently don’t count for much to “a person with a
remarkable financial grasp ” named Meyer.
Where the Long Beer Grows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE was a spike in the southerly ; it
cut one’s knees and turned the feet to
ice. The brewery clock pointed to eleven.
Three men of the bottle-and-rabbit-oh type
squatted in the gateway. At intervals a draught
of air moved past them ; they bore it unflinchingly
because it held the odor of warm grain and boiling
beer. Inside the brewery was warmth and light.
A big-bodied night-watchman made stealthy
excursions between a mammoth vat and the
pyramids of casks which lined the outbuildings.
There was sorrow and dejection in the watch-
man’s eye. Sorrow comes to all guardians of
beer who have seen the homeless drunk awaken-
ing in the dawn. The returned empty hogsheads
loomed from the shadows like publicans’ graves.
Ihe building was high, with a dome of iron. An
incandescent light half illuminated a bulging
mass in the centre. At first glance it resembled
the stomach of a giant belted with steel. Scanning
it with half-shut eyes, one saw the white froth
hanging beard-like over its neck and waist. It
was a monster vat full of beer.
The dossers in the gateway eyed the watchman
with a certain earnestness of manner. He glanced
at them from time to time with the frosty dignity
of one whose nod meant shelter and hot liquor.
“Let’s in, Joe. Chuck us a few sacks; we’ll
lie here. ” The three sitting cross-legged in the
gateway moved inch by inch to the interior. And
each dosser pleaded his separate cause as he
crawled forward.
“Be cripes, Joe, I haven’t done a stroke for
months. The traps are shepherdin’ me. I haven’t
a show. Did a spell on the garbage destructor;
it’s ’nuff ter roast an’ pisen a bloke. Let’s in,
Joe? ”
“ Keep from here, boys. We’ve a telephone in
the office with a large police station at the end of
it.” The night-watchman retreated among the
shadows. In a little while he returned and
beckoned me from the gateway. I followed him
inside, as I hope to follow St. Peter some day
along the gum-tree avenues of heaven.
I had known the watchman when he worked
the punt on the Darling at the Wilcannia crossing.
It had been a flat, desultory life, full of heat and
flies and sheep-faced men, but if you have the
power to recall the past, even if the past be a
dusty, white road, a certain mulga patch, or a
lagoon, you may command even the sullen friend-
ship of the man who keeps the beer.
The watchman left me somewhat abruptly, but
he indicated a pile of chaff-bags in a non-committal
way. I threw myself down and tried to sleep.
Past midnight the beer seemed to wake up. The
moist earth beneath the tubs suddenly heaved
with life. Cockroaches floated out in waves,
pouring over benches towards the shallow mash-
tubs and half-drained vats. They swarmed over
me like wind-blown leaves, until they reached the
foot of a belted giant. They besieged its dripping
sides in thousands, striving to reach the clouds of
barm that hung about its rim.
At 1 p.m. came the rats—long-bodied rats with
the faces of old men. There were young rats and
rats that were blind and infirm. They moved
under the eaves, across beams, with a shy, rhyth-
mic movement that suggested a prelude to a Song
of the Plague. A huge rat with Satanic ears stole
down from a beam to drink from the underdrip at
the giant’s foot. Then washing its face leisurely
it passed to an inner shed where the grain lay in
steaming heaps. Other rats came to the under-
drip—black and grey rats, eager as wolves, watch-
ing me over their shoulders as they trooped
towards the smoking grain.
But the king rat was the jolliest of them all;
he flew round and round the rim of a tub
squeaking as he ran, balancing himself with great
valor over the beer. This was done for the edifi-
cation of a number of lady rats who regarded him
approvingly from an overhead beam.
“ These are the abattoir rats.” The watchman
spoke somewhere in the shadows. “ They drove
out the old brewery rats. They came here for a
change of diet. They travel through the sewers.
The abattoir rats are a mangy lot, but they pick
up after they’ve been here a bit. Damn the cats ! ”
A couple of old “ roofers ” squalled above us as
they fought wildly on the beam. Then we heard
a scratching, slipping sound, a silken splash.
“In ! ” A hoarse voice lifted itself in the gate-
way. The three dossers laughed sleepily. A
solitary tom stood on the beam and gazed steadily
at a round hole in the beer froth. The cloud .of
barm surged frantically for a moment as though it
were alive. Then with a sigh it closed up.
“ Gone in all right,” I said.
In the cold dawn I saw the watchman bend
over a row of tubs and skim something from the
tops.
“ Cockroaches ? ” I inquired feebly.
“One or two,” he answered, “but a brewery
isn’t in it with a bakehouse.”
“ I suffer wiv insomnia ! ” cried someone in the
gateway. “Doctor ordered me tew sleep in a
brewery wiv me feet in the froth.”
“ Wish ter Gawd a cyclone wud strike the big
vat?” wailed a rabbit-oh. “Wish it wud bust.
I’d die swimmin’. I’d take a long dive an’ never
come up.”
* * * *
Months later, while canvassing for advertise-
ments, I casually interviewed the manager of the
brewery. Floods of sunshine lit up the surface of
the deep, red beer. Barrels were being swung
into the waiting lorries. I sat beside the manager
in the office, while his fat jewelled hand rested on
a blotting-pad.
“ Oh, yes,” he said, “you can put us down for
an ad. I’d like you to write up something
special for the hot weather. Work in some-
thing about ‘Sparkling Cascades,’ or ‘Eternal
youth springs from our beer.’ You might call it
the beverage of giants, distilled from the clouds of
Kosciusko’—something neat and cool.” He fol-
lowed me from the office leisurely. “Make a note
of ‘ Sparkling Cascades ’ ” he added finally.
I promised him I would.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


Cured the Children
Eczema, Blotches on.the Skin. Severe Itching, Sleep Disturbed,
Health Impaired. Now Healthy and Lively.
*3*
"
Mrs. E. Isaacs,
Caulfield, Vic-
toria, sends the
photograph of
herself and chil-
dren, and says:
“ I have used
Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla for three of
my children who
were troubled
w i t«h eczema,
which, as you
well know, is a
troublesome itch-
ing disease,
breaking out in
blotches on the
skin and causing
no end of trouble
and discomfort to
the children by disturbing their sleep and upsetting their general health.
However, knowing of Ayer's Sarsaparilla, I decided to use it, and now the
children are entirely free from any sign whatever of the complaint, and are
as healthy and lively as could be wished.”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla cures skin diseases because it removes their cause. It
takes out all impurities from the blood, and then the skin quickly heals.
For sixty years Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been doing this grand work. There
is no other Sarsaparilla like it. When there,are impurities in the blood,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will promptly remove them, and will also make the blood
rich and red. Only be sure you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind.
AYER’S 1 arsaparilla
Proßtcroa by DH- J. O -AYER OOw Lcrßrall. Mas a.. X 7. 8. A-
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
|371 George Street,
s3ra33?arjE3»*!»r.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
SalsamAniseeti’
COUGHS
iFor } COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
k Safe for Children.
r »*fi .
$$
Awise^
aft Chemists & Stores. Be sure
i f ou Oft Powell’s with above
Trade Mark.
YOU CAN CURE AT HOME
the worst cases of fits. The treatment U
simple; the results certain. Proofs,etc,, tree
Or Six Bottles, SI/- (enough for 8 months),
Twelve Bottles, 66/-, earn age paid.
Mb, Gtaßioei Dui, U Smw BUI, Manley,
Stans., Bag*
]Qrtinkennes§
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Db. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE GIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing" sleep ensues. My cure wfil
surprise and delight you.
ONB OF MANY:
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which has effected
a cure. I have no d'esire for drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
yours gratefully. R.O.
Write for Treatise, No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address •
WW. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S , Eng.
128 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by using
Th ?.J?s*X« l !r2?L ,ibl ? Remed * for weakness, debility,
VARsCOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality t° the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet
Price 125., or four quantities in one, 365. Freight extra
Is. and Is. 6d. ’
Agents for Australasia —PEßßY & CO., *7 Oueen St
• N <s S ' ,fr 'T Fau,t s ir )B' & Co., 16 O’Conneii
St., Sydney ; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOB TUB LADIES.
W. c. ZEXiIDIFaiIDGKE: & CO.
DYERS & GLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from, all the colonies promptly
attended to.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
safe*
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOIOHms,
DIAKKJbKLA, & G '> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
SEE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS <*
Sept. 28 1898, mya:
“If I were asked which single medicme I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
Others, I should say Chlobodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to tha
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
ts best recommendation."
WEAK MADE STRONG!
UK Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
eveiy morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
u xe, and '' IQOB * Catalogue and Price List
JtOSt
L ELEC VI ,^..APPUANCE co.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
I v\
AN INTERESTING
Y ? U w G MEN > giving instructions for the
SLT 0t . Nerv ° us and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
SSJOT* ?" d T^ ality \. FuU directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
hope before reading this book.
E~!t^ E^2™JHP A TION. -Address, SECRETARY’,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
BEAT
The New Patent
ISOUND DISCS
gConi
jjhow
ftO tl
rnpletely overcome Deafness
1 Head V
**■»**» Noises, no matter of
fhow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
ere*. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address A. U. HAST, 145 Collins St,. Uilbotuos
Medicine Sent Free
of all v-RVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Vancoc;. etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent Dy mail m plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
p?ll4^S
1 °Giddin°e U ss ® rS ’ Wind and Pa!n in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
ing S of Heat Loss of n Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
turbed Sieen ’ snri nil '^■EP etlte Shortness of Breath. Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WILL GIVE RELIEF In'TWENTY THE ™ST DOSE
GUINEA V A 6 BOX” ° ne B ° X °* theSe PiUs ’ and they will be ackmmledgedTo A
**?»
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
a , ct o^ e , uia gic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
. ar ; restor mg the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
mousing with the Rosbeudqp Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
■vr acts admitted hy thousands, in all classes of society, and on 9 0f the best guarantees to the
JNervous and Debilitated is that Beecham.'s Pills 9 have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
fhetvorld. I ull directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND-
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, Is lid, and 2s 9d each.
NEW CLUB SHOT SHELLS
RE factory loaded with standard BLACK
V— s** POWDER and shot and wadded with the
famous U.M.C. wads. New Clubs are the most
popular shell of their class in America and else-
where, for they are hard hitting and give a uniform
pattern to the shot charge. Moderate priced.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
r Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION, j
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Barters
TTLE
IVER
PILLS
•Sma! phi. Small Dos*. Small Price.
They TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter's
BUCCANEER
9
Price is. Id.
Pott Free.
A CARD*
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Eden.,
L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P S Q
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formeriy Medical Superintendent
four of Australasia’s Hospitals ; Surgeon-in-Charge of Troops, South African War ” Author +°
The D*«. of Men end Women,” M., »f„ be oonLifd pemonelle £tatte?»E E , SSjSSZjSSL
' ‘‘ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
o, M H ,n °' “■ M ” S * C °“'" U ° g Ph >'» M “ ■" - B! #*“
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Urinary Complaints,
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Comnetent
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in 111 cases
Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of si* a f. amriD o ' •
Copies of “ The Diseases of Men and Women,” posted FREE to any address o/receipt of ri“steii.p& Speclmen
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
A Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients received at Dr. Martin’s Private Hospital and special attention
given to all cases that have failed to get relief elsewhere. ana speolal at tention
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
“Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-st., Gty.
(Please mention this paper when writing,)


INDIA RUBBER
hot water bags.
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
LOWEST PRICES :
PRICE
Without Covers.
6s. 6d. each
Size.
lOin. x 6in.
lOin. x 7in.
lOin. x Sin.
12in. x Sin.
I2in. x loin.
7s. 6d
Bs.
Ss. 6d
Complete
II it h Covers.
7s. 3a.
7S. !rl.
Bs. od.
9s. 6d.
Ltd.
Perdriau Rubber Co.
(Late Perdriau and Co.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
Hm Theatric*! and
Domestic History.
pQ»t Free, 1«
The Life, Adventures
end ConfeeetioM of •
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Paat Free, to.
S*nd Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza.
Box 913, G'P.Q „ SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment' for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrheas, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the. "Alleiiburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can. be made in a moment, hoUwater
only being necessary.
The “Alleiiburys” Foods 1 are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable. <
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON, and 7, Spring St, SYDNEY.
V. < -
LACY CO. LTD.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES & BOILERS,
DKCA/XTIES I3XT s l <r> rrtt i■■ i mnrrrro m
All Kinds of Engineers* Fittings & Supplies
Wood Pulleys Plummer Blocks Drills
Shafting: Collars Reamers
Hangers Couplings Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces.
Emery Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators.
Starrett Fine Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Writ. f.r Prices to 60 clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W
USTRALIAN
uSoRT&AGE,
INANCE
and
4
•V j/«A Av>:v7sL ;
X •,-•7 .. •
Size, &i" x B£"x 5'
We are Direct Importers
ui httvo
<«all sixes
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Forges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Wire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
CROTTON & CO.. Ltd.
©■7
CI.A3EtE3XrOE STREET, SYOKTKJY.
TfS
So/e Licensees :
LTD
17 Bond Street, Sydney,
486 Collins St., Melbourne
