

v
“GAELIC” WHISKY.
Minins and
,
107
Contractors* Plant,
Kent
—W»—
Engineers’ and Sawmill
-v tv T TV f AA7 /"'I TWT%I
Sydney,
Machinery, Mining Requisites
TNJIT.W i«n SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
vnc
Broccdijont’s Bireot
Steam, Bolt and
Electrically-driven
vn
For Dtry/np woo h>
MmMng tiCAT KXtRACT,
DrylHo aiIGAH, *c. f 4ft
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND AND TO ARRIVE.
Sole Agents— ° - —i
HBSON. BATTLE & C 0 ’ so««m*. SYDNEY.
fiadleys Orient fjot
PIONEER
LEATHER
'm ELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
«, C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
BOTTLED IN
SCOTLAND
vnc
WHISKY
m
AF
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates . Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branchs
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). pr a. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. “W!
Cuti tOalXeti) 'sed
ASK
GROCER
vcn
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
1/3
tt
vn
DAILY
TREAT!
ñb
b
Koval
Dutch
v
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FO^
k Aroma,Stra\gtlu4 > urit)C
mmm
BREWERS, WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
MALTSTERS,
Manufacturers ’ef MINERAL WATERS
and CORDIALS.
DAVID STOfIER & SONS;
Eegisteeed Trade Mark
In Three Colors—
BLACK, RED, & BLUE.
jES
OIL
FIFECT SXZHIXSP-BXA.XIKEIFI.
Is THE ONLY Absoltjtelt
SAFE Wool-Marking
OR K
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by AN Merchants and Storekeepers.*
JUST PUBLISHED.
Price! 21s.
bvn
THJjJ FINEST
BOOK of ILLUSTRATIONS
ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s” Pictures, superbly produced.
A UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS XMAS GIFT.
7 lnnM cp/l “ wi-a.Qmmonf /»c n Tnhle* IVrtfai' "
The Bulletin
Vol. 26.—N0. 1323.]
[Thursday, June 22, 1905.
Registered at the Genera! Post Offioe, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PROPY. LTD.,
Ernest Renan, by Barry, “Literary Lives Series,” 3s fid,
postage Gii. Levi, Book of Billiards, Is 3d, post 3d.
Loeke, W.J., Morals of Marcus Ord eyrie, paper -is (id. cloth
3s 6d, p. sd. Ganz, Hints on Painting, 3s, post 4d.
Beavan, Animals I Have Known, ss, postage Od.
Beavan, Birds I Have Known, ss, post (id.
Castle, A. & E., Rose of the World, paper 2s 6d, cloth
3s 6d, postage 5d extra.
•Joachim, “ Living Masters of Music Series,” 3s, post 4d.
Moore, F.F., The White Causeway, paper 2s' 6d, cloth
3s 6d, postage 5d extra.
Practical Photographers’ Annual, 1905, paper covers, Is 9d,
'cloth 2s Gd, postage (id extra.
History of Cricket Test Matches, 1877-1905, Sd posted.
Ing-ersoll’s Lectures, 2nd Series, R.P.A., 8d posted.
Renan’s Apostles, R.P. A. Series, 8d posted.
Watts, Meaning of Rationalism, 3s, post 6d.
Jevons, Principles of Economics, 12s, post Bd.
71 Cctstlereagh St., Sydney, & at Melb., Adelaide, Brisk., & London.
BETTER THAN EVER!
Steele Rudd's Magazine.
Read the MAY NUMBER.
Tales and Illustrations by leading Australian Authors
and Artists. _
CONTENTS.
1. One Day ’Mid Many -^Noogoora
2. Dad in Politics — Steele Rudd
3. His Argument— The Lizard
i. A Page of Perth Politicians—Diet Hartley
5. Spud Rilev’s Mat e—Henry bletcher
6. Why Woodville Lacks a Railway— Ben Sun
7. A Search for the Bunyip—Dermal Cole
8. The Beneficiaries of George Adams Will—*.
9. My Lovers— Gilrooney ~ . „
10. The Drowning of Bill Primrose— Albert Dornngton
11. Illustrated Quotations— Fred. Boote
12. The Pacific Slope— Emmi
13. Some Bulletin Bards — A. G. Stephens
14. bmiler Hales
15. Batching in the Bush—Edward S. Sorensen
16. An Essay on the Orst— Grant Hervey
17. The Vanquished— Furnley Maurice
18. Caricature and its History — Geo. Taylo)
19. Australian Landscape Art — J. Ruslan
20. The Spirit of the Storm—Dick Hindson ,
21. The Burial of Concertina Charli e—Ashton Miupny
22. ' Printing Kisses — Wilhelmina Shuur
23. Life in Broken Hill — 'P.M■
24. The Widow’s Fowls— Paula
25. In the Train — M. Forrest . , „ „ ,
26. The Adventures of a Fallen Angel—Dermal C. Lole
27. The Dream Kiss — Polstan
28. The Mushroom Gatherer — B. Corklmg
29. Ginger— B.J. ,
30. The Lightning Company — Adam J aul
31. Biiley’s Mixture — J. F. Millington
32. The Newsbreaker— A. E. Martin
33. Literary and Art Notes and Persons
34. E lite rial
35. Correspondents’ Column.
PRICE SIXPENCE-
vn c
FOR influenza.bronchitis,
ASTHMA,B. ALL AFFECTIONS
THETHROATS,LUNGS,& PR &V
vncn
m
M
SOLD By ALL CHEMISTS,
vc
CONSUMPTION.
,AN lOEM.REMEOY.
; Co/t/ain no (ocame
\nro!herpoisonoas dry
great
A NT I SEPTIC
nvc
FOR COUGHS . COLDS
SO RE
THROAT
Sold ill Tim. 1/S, or M Free bn rooeipl 5 Mg <™< «« * *» ***
f—'* am ™lommAom-s™ ftSSw, ch«*|£o **»>• ®“* "'
THE RED PAGE.
ON GOING TO LONDON
FIRST, remember that you are not wanted
in England. As Stead said to me, “ What
are all you Australians doing here at all ?
Why do you come across here and expect
us to hand over our billets to you ? Have n’t you
got a country of your own ? Don’t you grow
newspapers and publishers out there ? What do
you mean by dumping yourselves down in a
country that is already overcrowded with appli-
cants for work ? Why don’t you get your living
in your own land ? ”
And he is right. England is overstocked with
dead men’s shoes. For every billet on the press
there are three persons competent and waiting—
and you are an outsider. The London editor
doesn’t know you, doesn’t want to know you, has
never heard of you or your work. And he does
know your London rival. He was at Oxford with
his father, or a bishop has mentioned his name,
or they both come from the same county, or he’s
a friend of somebody in the same club, or a nephew
of somebody on the Stock Exchange. And they
understand each other. Englishmen .stick together
and keep each other’s mangers warm. Very natur-
ally. For the Australian on arrival is quite use-
less for ordinary journalistic purposes. He
doesn’t know his way about. As Harmswortli
told me when in' my first fortnight in England I
asked him for a lordly position on his staff, I was
“no use whatever to ” (and his voice became sud-
denly reverent) “ The Daily Mail.” I didn’t know
who was the Gold Stick in Waiting. And in
England it appears that they attach considerable
importance to the Gold Stick in Waiting.
Besides, no London editor wants you on his
staff. The trend- of the new journalism is to use
a man’s brains for three months and then deposit
him on the mat. They want you to contribute, to
give them your best and freshest, and then make
room for somebody more audacious. True, there
is room for one Australian on most of the staffs of
the London journals ; but there is only room for
one. You have a letter to him ; he is polite, but
you cannot expect him to offer you his own sub-
editorial chair. It will only seat one.
J*
In most London offices there is a battalion of
subordinates whose business it is to prevent you
seeing the editor. Herein comes in the value of
clothes. A silk hat will save you three snubs. I
got in touch with llarmsworth by clinging to
Seddon’s skirts. He arrived about the saine time,
and after the usual rebuffs, I pencilled on my
card, “ From Maoriland —know all about Seddon.”
Immediate result—interview with Harmsworth,
request for interview with Seddon, suggestion for
article on London, and commission for article on
Maoriland for his New Liberal Review. The Daily
Mail pays three guineas for its special article
(1200 words), a guinea better than the usual price
for contributed matter in the London press. Once
The St. James’s Gazette paid me 12s. fid. for an
article of 1200 words. I communicated to the
editor the result of iny conjectures about his
parentage.
The most annoying experience of a contributor
at the other end is his inability to repeat a
success. After my first article in the Mail I wrote
a dozen articles. Iwo got as far as proof-slips,
and came back in that form after many days ;
one disappeared altogether ; one was accepted
and has never appeared yet; several I disposed
of in the provincial press ; the rest I still treasure.
An Australian friend, who is now war-editor for
The , and has worked his way from
actual starvation to GOO/. a year, on his arrival in
London tried every paper in turn with a half-
column item. When it had gone the rounds,
rejected by even the halfpenny rags, he sent it
to The Times. They printed it, and gave him
10/. for it. He has never got another line into
The Times.
The chief trouble with the Australian in
London is the time it takes to acclimatise him.
He is a foreigner there ; the Englishman does not
think the same thoughts; the parent-stock and
the. colonial descendant belong to different gene-
rations. In brain processes the Australian is
more akin to the American ; they take each other
for granted, allow each other’s points of view,
which the Englishman never does. It took me
exactly eighteen months to get down to the
level where I could see things from the English
point of view. It is n’t necessary to write from
that point of view ; it is essential to find out
what it is, and allow for it. And till you do, it is
useless to attempt to interest the Englishman,
save as a critical outsider. And the Englishman
does not think much of the outsider. The only
thing for the new-chum in England, while he is
being acclimatised, is to catch and pin his first
impressions of London and the English, and serve
them up still wriggling to London editors. Write
on London as it strikes you, London cats, London
fogs, London humour, London editors, London
butlers—anything, as long as it is London. For
the Londoner cares only for London ; that is the
most valuable lesson to be learned in England.
J*
But Australians are so popular in England just
now ! Are they ? Ask the first man you meet
on the top of a ’bus. He smoulders with a dull
resentment against Australia. What do they
mean out there? What are they after with those
labour laws and that socialism ? What do they
want to keep the Japs out for? Why can’t they
be quiet ? Why can’t they be like Us ? That is
really the basis of the Englishman’s distaste for
a continent. The untravelled Englishman con-
ceives of the Empire only as a series of Little
Englands. Australia, by being Australian, annoys
him,. And London is too busy with its own affairs,
its street improvements, its latest musical play, its
missions, its elaborate pretence of politics, its
trams and its tubes and its week-ends, to care
much for a vague abstraction called the Empire,
still less to concern itself about a mere flat section
of King Edward’s Dominions Beyond the Seas.
The ambitious Australian journalist ought to
come well-prepared for the siege. I took enough
to last me for three months. Take enough to last
you for eighteen months—say 150/., and you’ll
survive, You start in London quite, unknown.
If you’re twenty-five, you’re exactly five years ,
behind the man who came down from Oxford at
the age of twenty. It is merely beginning one’s
life again. And if you mean to write articles,
read all the papers you can and clip and file any-
thing that bears on your particular subjects.
If you get one article accepted out of every five
you write “on spec.” you’ll do well.
And there is more to fight in England than the
tardiness of the recognition of such ability as you
possess. There is the almost physical depression
that the immensity of London produces—the con-
viction that one is but a useless and unconsidered
atom in a jostling aggregation of stranger atoms,
the utter despair of ever effecting anything in that
old grey city that has lost its enthusiasms, the
terrible dread that one human being can’ never
move anything in this placid centre of a stable
civilisation. There is the cold, blank stare of the
Englishman; even the English houses have it —
miles and miles of bleak, blank, grim, expression-
less houses fronting each other: as I went into
London between those dull hostile visages, on a
day when the air looked like a sediment, I felt my
individuality shrinking to the insignificance of the
hero in one of Sime’s nightmares. The feeling of
loneliness, of monotony, of friendlessness, must be
daily fought. You will want the sun, and want it
badly. But it’s no use crying for it—in London.
&
But perhaps you, as I, will be beguiled into the
paths of literature. I had forgotten the short
stories you wrote for The Otago Witness, the para-
graphs in The Bulletin , and, oh, yes, that slim
volume of trickling verse; You have your novel,
perhaps your comedy. Don’t be in a hurry to
publish your novel ; you’ll make more out of two
short stories than out of any first novel. After
your sixth novel, so an experienced novelist told
me, you may expect an income. But there is The
Name. As A. P. Watt remarked to me, nobody
remembers the name of the writer of a good short
story ; ten short stories haven’t the cumulative
effect in advertising the writer that three novels
give ; but there is little money result (save to the
publisher) in the first three novels. And your
novel is bound to be about Australia or Maoriland.
London readers and critics don’t particularly
desire to know about either place. Too far away.
Fisher Unwin told me that for a colonial novel
there was only a limited circulation—the sale that
there was for a translated continental novel, or
for an unbooihed American book. Australia is a
foreign country to the average English reader. I
sent Tussock Land to two publishers before Un-
win took it. I had five 6n my list, and when it
came back from the fifth I had decided to re-write
it and try it on them again. Sometimes I
wonder . . .
In short stories there is a possible living for the
budding author. He won’t get fifty pounds a
story at first; but by good work he may creep up
from three guineas to twenty-five forafive-thousand
word tale. This result is achieved by re-sales. I
wrote short stories for nine months in London
without getting one accepted. I went through
the ritual of sending them round to every editor
in London, and sometimes the punctuality with
which they returned was almost appalling. The
house in which I had rooms possessed no letter-
box—merely a slit in the door; and I was often
awakened in the morning by the heavy, sickening
thud of a returned manuscript reverberating along
the hall. But out it went again.
Then I tried a literary agent. It seems to be
the opinion here that literary agents ask for a fee
in advance. I merely state the fact that no
literary agent has asked for any fee from me, nor
from any writer I know in London, except their
commission after the story is sold. My literary
agent tried my stuff on English editors with the
same punctual results ; then he suggested America.
I told him he could do so at his own expense of
duplicating the MSS. He did so, and in a month
Leslie's Monthly took a story oi mine, for which I
got, I think, three guineas. Other American
magazines followed, and my prices gradually rose.
The latest sale of a five-thousand word story
brought me 15/. in America, and 8/. more
for its > re-sale to a London magazine. The
commission charged by my agents was 20 per
cent, for American sales. and 10 per cent, for
English sales. It is these re-sales and the opening
up of new avenues for the disposal of one’s work
that testify to the value of a literary agent.
There is also the serial to be considered. This
is Dead Easy ; you write ten or twenty thousand
words a week, and you never stop' to think.
There is an enormous market for cheap sentimen-
talism and impossible adventure, and the caterers
for that demand can keep their motor-cars. It
may serve to boil your billy.
There are also the serious monthlies. But a
young author can hardly keep alive on the
monthlies. The Nineteenth Century kept an
article of mine for four months before accepting
it. I got 20/. for it, which I understand is their
invariable minimum price. But the other monthlies
do not scruple, on occasion, to pay miserably—as
compared with the current rates for magazine fic-
tion. Never let your short story Exceed five
thousand words, and the nearer to two thousand
you can keep the better the chance of its consider-
ation. Editors are always polite in the printed
slip that comes back with your rejects. The Smart
Set will gently indicate exactly the sort of stories
they don’t want, and ask you to try again.
Pearson’s go to the most trouble. I reproduce
here their advice to authors—a signpost to the
royal road of magazine literature set up by a pur-
veyor of fiction for the populace.
The Editor has considered the enclosed MS., but regrets
that he is unable to make use of it. The reasons which,
in the Editor’s opinion, make the story unsuitable for the
pages of Pearson’s Magazine are indicated by crosses in
the appended form.
fis too long.
is not clear and bright enough,
is too tragical.
• .1 is too emotional.
I contains too strong a religious element.
\contains too much of the supernatural.
/ is too slight.
The Plot J is not sufficiently plausible.
I is not sufficiently novel.
(Js too complicated.
That is Pearson’s Magazine’s idea of literature.
There are other magazines—and other ideas.
J*
Oh, and I had forgotten all about that little
book of unpublished verse ! These words are
written upon the fog that is the gate of London,
“ Abandon ye all verse who enter here ! ” There is
not one publisher in all London who would touch
verse commercial speculation. Yet poetry is
occasionally published. As a matter of curi-
osity, I used to investigate the conditions of
publication of every little poetry book that peeped
above the grass in Spring. I simply sent in my
little book of verse, and asked the publisher why
he published ***** and not Me? The answer was
“commission.” The little dream-child had been
paid for, advertisements and all, by its father.
There were a few exceptional cases, where the
publisher was a personal friend of the poetess’s
husband. And there was always the willingness
to handle my stuff “on commission.” I have been
fortunate enough in getting my two books of
verse published without cost to me—though also
without, so far, the least cash result; but a poet
who expects to be paid for his fun—and it is fun !
—should try the Stock Exchange. The edition of
men like Watson and Yeats in London seldom
exceeds four hundred copies. Compare Ogilvie s
or Paterson’s successive thousands. As a London
publisher wrote, “ To produce poetry and make.it
pay is, at the present moment, practically im-
possible.” Ncr; don’t worry about that little book
of verse. Show it to the girl— she ’ll lilt© it ; or
send the poems to the London magazines. Only
they won’t boil the billy. For “ Marama : the
Melon God ” in the Monthly Review I got five
guineas; for my recent “Bond Street’ in the
same review, one guinea. Compare Australian
prices, and sell your little, seed pearls here.
Yes, go to London and learn things. It’s a
good training for a journalist ; I should say a
most necessary training. It’s worth while ; and
you can come back. For myself, I mean to he
back in London in eighteen months. In London
one meets editors and publishers, one learns much
about one’s market; and it pays to keep in touch.
And it is worth while going merely to see. how
Australia looks upside down at the far end of the,
telescope. And I don't think you will think less
of Australia —even upside down—in England.
AURTHUR H. ADAMS.
Sorry to say it; but we are Commencing to skip
G. B. Shaw’s currencies.: his wit is fraying.at -the,'
edge. Per contra, Ounninghune Graham is more
admirable t.hdn ever. But the old spontaneous
G.8. -jester has become a jester with intention : a
jester'damned. From his last lecture—on Shake-
spear, e.g.:
Shalcespear was not a vulgar and illiterate man. He
<was'of a respectable class, for his father had been a, bank:
rupt. (Laughter.)
A little thin ? un peu passe ?
He himself regarded Shakespear in two ways. One of
Ms (Mr. Shaw’s) eyes was the eye of an artist, and the
other the eye of a plumber. With one he saw the art,
with- the other the artifice, (Laughter.)
The reporter put it in the past tense, dr we would
have doubt about the first eye.
Who shall find a virtuous Scotchman? for his
worth is far above... bawbees, at least, the New
Proverbs declare. When found, to be sure, he
would deny that he was Scotchman—that being
an English term of opprobrium invented by the
scoundrels who likewise vilified Scotch mist,
Scotch chocolate, Scotch fiddle, Scotch greys, and
Scotch seamanship. He would be Scot, like the
noble Sir Thomas of that ilk, who, being quar-
tered in England yet holding pristine valour
unimpaired, raised at one day’s notice 4000 men
and packed them to Dover to fight the Great
Armada, being therefor fitly commended by his
epitaph :
He—being call’d to special place
Did what 'might best behove him.
The Queenk o/ Engla.nd gave him grace ;
The King of Heav’n did love him. ..
He kept tall men, he rydd great hors ;
He did indite most finelye ;
He us’d few words, bat cold discours
Both wisely and dyvinelye.. .
Ambition he did not regard,
No boaster, nor no braggei;
He spent, and lookt for no reward,
• He cold not play the bagger.
Whereat the panegyrist rests and makes an end,
feeling that there is no more to be said in praise
even of the noblest Scot. "He cold not play the
bagger ” —testifying his worth far above bawbees,
as the New Proverbs declare.
This, then, was in his generation a virtuous
Scot, and in Cunnirighatne Graham, traveller and
writer of to-day, envisage another. There may
have been others interim : this deponent knoweth
not. But from the evidence of the epitaph one
would take Sir Thomas to belong to the type of
Scot with high cheek-bones, eyes slightly slanted,
and the curious squeezed skull that looks as if it
had been rounded by the attrition of ages of
hard and humble living—approximating the
Mongolian type, and as laborious and tenacious
as the Mongol. If so, he was the paragon of
his class. Graham is of aristocratic rank, as
different from the other as a laird from his
gillie. In his mental air you find that dry,
bracing savour so peculiarly Scotch, as if
gathered on a keen, wide moor not without its
heather and hint of honey. Hume had it, for
example—another aristocrat whose zeal for the
house of Stuart was his disgrace, says Bishop
Hurd, himself born merely of “plain, honest,
and good people,” arid owning all the defects
of those perilous qualities. And one may believe
there is nothing quite like it in other European
literature : always a little warmth of emotion or
mist of imagination comes to alter the chill glow
of the heatless Scottish sun.
The Academy, with an embarrassment ot nega-
tives, heads a review notice “Tales from the
Never Never NEVER Land ” —three “ Nevers.”
We have been accustomed to do with two, and
don’t know how we get even those. Morris’s
dictionary finds a quotation in 1857.
With the aid of three stock-keepers, soon after my
arrival at lUawarra, I had the cattle mustered, and the
draft destined for the Nievah Yahs ready for the road.
From Wild Adventures in Australia , p. 63 ; by 1. JJ.
Brebant Cooper, who adds in a footnote : “ Nievah Valis,
sometimes incorrectly pr nounced ‘Never Nevers, a
Comderoi term signifying unoccupied land.”
Well, it may be so and thus ; and then agin
A writer in The Fortnightly says:
Even Gorky’s physical type is maligned by most of the
photographs published. In these photographs he looks
nervisits, amemic, hunted, sentimental. The Maxim
Gorky whom I left a week ago ... is a tall, straight,
deep-chested, large-honed man, who towered like a <nant
over the squat Germans and stunted Lettish peasants who
are now struggling for racial dominion on the Livonian
coast. In features, he is as far removed from the refined,
weak-faced intelligents as from the submissive, apathetic
muzhik. The forehead is broad, furrowed deeply when he
talks, and surmounted by a inop of dark hair ; the eyes
grey, serene, slightly defiant; the nose ’big, not
unlike Tolstoy’s, but even more shapeless ; the mouth
big, somewhat grim ; and the jaw, now fringed with
a scanty red-brown beard grown in gaol, square, massive,
and resolute. You feel.at once that this’is a self-
possessed, masterful man, a man in whom character is
even more remarkable than intellect, who, even bad he
been born without the instinct for the natural and the
dramatic, and that verbal deftness which have raised him
among, his countrymen to unexampled fame, would not
the less surely have broken the bonds of birth and penury.
In tlie same review a Japanese poet’s dictum is
translated thus:
What is called poetry arises from the heart: man must
put into words that which lie feels. How diverse are our
emotions ! Well, emotion, in verse, is poetry.
Did n’t we say so ?
The Studio has a new story of Whistler.
Coming up to the easel of a new pupil, he looked
at the work in profound silence; then directing
his monocle and his business eye towards the
pupil, he began: “From New York?” “Yes.”
“Pupil of Chase?” “Yes.” “Um-111! I thought
so. Why did you paint a red elbow with green
shadows?” The young lady protested, “[ am
sure I just paint what L see.” He nodded his
head in grave appreciation of the case, adding,
“ But the shock will come when you see what you
paint.” ,
The same magazine quotes Menzel on impres-
sions : “Itis a mistake'to try to be impressionistic.
The right thing is to use your eyes and to render
everything as well-defined as possible—with its
atmosphere. The impression will look out for
itself.”
Jerome Hart, ed. of S.F. Argonaut . has been
travelling and collecting impressions of
opera. Here they are, Paris leading :
PariS: —Fine artists in. the leading rdles ; good artists jn
the secondary roles ; perfection in the ensemble.
London—A few famous vocal artists ; ensemble, medi-
ocre ; ballet, poor ; orchestra, fair.
Dresden— Ensemble, admirable ; vocal artists, admir-
able, but not rising to greatness.
Mugdph— The same.
Vienna*- Mediocre.
Berlin- Medi owe.
Rome— lnferior.
Naples —lnferior.
New York— The. greatest artists in the leading rfiles;
those in the secondary roles not always excellent;
orchestra, admirable ; stage setting and scenery, only
fair ; ballet, very poor.
Sydney? Melbourne? These are barbaric vil-
lages without culture. Sydney is the city which
boasts that it owns “the largest organ in the
world,” and once owned one of the finest
organists : it permitted its municipal donkeys to
dismiss him, and now purveys ? -rate
recitals to ? -rate audiences. Mel-
bourne is the city which permitted a clique
of Prejsbyterian bigots with heads stuffed
with 17th-century cobwebs to oust, from its
University the single musician of original genius
and enthusiasm it possessed. “If this should
meet the eye ” of any ardent Australian, let him
resolve to put off sloth and petty vices and devote
himself to breaking the images of pompous stupi-
dity enthroned in so many Australian high
places, and beslavered continually by sycophants
as ignoble as themselves. One ardent young
man, picking his mark and attending closely
to the business of publicity, should -be able
to drive one last-generation fossil into private file
in order that public offices may be filled With men
level with the spirit of the age. There should be
no living on one’s laurels in a public or semi-
public position : every holder should be compelled
to give every year new proof of energy and com-
petence. The wisdom of experience is valuable
truly ; but how often do we look for Minerva and
find only her blinking owl.
A.G.S.


nvfdh
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd.
Wool Brokers and Fat Stock Salesmen,
SYDNEY.
gƒghg
And all Kinds of BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE.
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON & GO., Ltd.
Absolutely the Best Salesmen. v^SYPNEV
The CHEAPEST HOUSE for SPORTING GOODS and TOBACCO.
FOOTBALLS.
All Balls fitted with Best Quality
(IMPORTED) Red Rubber Bladders.
RTXGKBY OJR ASSOCIATIOM.
y-J
[j\OL3o/y
* ROYAL
OoTBr
11
mv.
Wr.%
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Royal ” Match Footballs, 7/6.
NICHOLSON'S “Royal” Hand Sewn Match, 9/6
NICHOLSON’S Men’s “ Special Royal ” Footballs, 11/6.
NICHOLSON’S Men’s Extra Special Stpd “A.N.A.,” 14/6
GILBERT’S Best Match Footballs, 12/6.
BRYAN’S “Grasshopper” Match Footballs, 13/6.
“DIADEM” Bur,tonless Match, Association only, 13/6.
SYKE’S “ Rival,” Association Match only, 10/-.
SYKE’S “ Albion,” Association Match only, 11/6.
SYKE’S “League Defiance,” Association Match only, 16/-.
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
RUGBY.
Solid Leather, No. 1 .. .. .. .. each
>■ ii >i 2 .. •• •• •« •>
>• i> ii 3 *»
ii ii ii ' * •• •• •• ii
„ ~ Match IL ii
ASSOCIATION.
Solid Leather, No. 1
«» » 2 ..
t* » 2
„ „ 4
„ Match 111
Special Youths’ Match Ball, Best Quality.
8. d-
each 2 6
„ 3 3
„ 3 9
„ 4 6
t. 5 0
14 0
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra Special Value.
No. 1, Is. 9d. each. No. 2,2 s. 3d. each. No. 3,2 s. 9d. each. No. 4,3 s. 3d. each.
FOOTBALL BLADDERS (imported). Red Rubber—Rugby or Association.
No. 1
s. d.
each 1 0
„ 1 4
„ 1 7
„ 110
No. 6
„ 6, Association only
„ 5, Rugby only, Special Extra Stout
Rubber
s. d.
each 2 3
2/9, 3 3
each I S
We can supply Colonial Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.—Shin Guards.
Stout Twill, with tapes
Stout Twill, straps and buckles
Basil, leather straps and buckles
Brown Basil, extra large continuous leather
straps
Gold Cape, straps and buckles .. ..
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather
straps
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, con-
tinuous straps, with or without ankle
pads
Same as above, larger size
B. d.
pair 3 0
*4O
„ 5 0
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Best Quality English-made HIDE BOOT, blocked toe-cap, very light, a splendid
boot for Ruarby, 10s 6d pair.
Extra Quality English-made BUCK SKIM BOOT (white), blocked toe and ankle
pads, guard over instep, very special quality, 14s 6d pair.
Best Quality English-made HIDE 'BOOTS, blocked toe-caps, with and without
ankle pads, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 13s 6d pair.
BRASS IN FLA TORS —Is 3d, Is lOd, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 6s 6d each.
UMPIRES’ WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6d each.
LACING AWLS, 6d each. LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6dpacket
Stout Web Belts, Double Straps and Pocket, Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
Solid Blocked Leather Ankle Guards, 2/6 set of 4
EAR CAPS —White Duck (open top), 3s each ; Buff Chamois
(netted crown), 3s 9d ea. ; Gold Cape (netted crown), 5s ea.
i IERSEYS —Hen’s Best Quality Navy, Royal Blue, Maroon or
Sky in sing-le colors. Royal and Gold, Sky and Maroon,
Maroon and Gold, Black and Cardinal, Light and Dark
Blue, Black and White, Royal and White, Red and White,
Navy and White, Cardinal and Royal, Black and Royal,
Green and Red, Black and Gold, Green and Gold, in 2-inch
bars, 48/- dozen ; 4/3 each.
f
DF&ft'Y
3/6
Hannca*
sr.
STANbAftD
Ascot
2/6
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. CYMES’ RACQUETS.
BLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Benshaw _ .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25 s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 303
“Doherty" .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 11s 6d
Ayres’Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
w
BOXING GLOVES.
Boys’ Cloth, 4s 6d set
Boys’ Chamois, 5s 6d, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 6s 6d set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 6s 9d, 7s 6d set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting'
Gloves, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
60z., 12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois,
Champion shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d set;
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
gjjgSr* Illustrated Sports, Fishing Tackle and Tobacco Lists Post Free.
gfj
The Great
Monte
Carlo
Came.
Perfection of
Mechanical
ingenuity.
Finest Quality
Gun Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert).
PRICE—
10/6
Post
Free.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment
due in about six
weeks.
■J**/ /
PUNCHING BALLS.
Swinging Ball, complete, with best
quality Red Rubber Bladder —
7s 6d, 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s, 21s,
255, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with double rubber
fittings, complete—lss 6d, 16s 6d,
18s 6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fixing ball, 2s yd.
Solid Tubular Rubber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball Swivels—
Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each
SPECIAL REDUCTION
To advertise this Favorite
and up-to-date Rifle, the
Manufacturers have de-
cided to REDUCE the
Selling- Price
THE MAINE
f?ifle
<sheu/mj/ Q'de Apart
FOR ONE
MONTH
ONLY:
The Celebrated “ Maine ” Rifle,
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights
to 300yds., Bolt Action, ISin.
Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut
Stock. Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
PRICE 12/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTEX»
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA-
Weight, 2|lb.
CONICAL. BALL
fg
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3, 2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
(> 22 Short .• ••
22 Long
1( 22 Long Rifle ..
” 22 Extra Long..
$ 100
Is Od
Is Od
Is 3d
is 6d
2s Od
$lOOO
9s 6d
10s Od
12s Od
13s Od
18s Od
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.n.B L. Gun, ISgauge, Top
Left Choke,°Reljounding Locks, Snap
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
For all Smokeless Powders.
ĝf
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
”~7 (I the RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
HOLLIS & SONS . Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels, both choke, side
gauge, top lever, g extended rib, Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with
lock action, chambered for 2}in. cartridges. _ GUARANTEED FOR
A I LL n SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the finest-quality Gun in. the States ..
£l2 12s
I
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC REPEATING
RIFLE, 1903 model, Special 22 Calibre,
fires 10 shots in four seconds, weight
sJlb
£5
h
THE GLOBE D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 gauge, top
lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,
left choke, patent D. & E. fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
40s
i*C=g
Winchester “Thumb-Trigger” Rifle
22 Cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight, 31b.
WINCHESTER S.S. Rifle, 1902 model, 22 Cal. R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2§lb.
REMINGTON S.S. Rifle, new model, 22 Calibre R.F., 20in.
barrel, weight 3Jlb. .. .. .. ..
15s
s. d.
18 6
16 6
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.“3MS
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


ROBERTS’ HOTEL.
Corner George & Market Streets, SYDNEY
Situated in the exact centre of the city, half-way between the Town Hall and Post Office,
and within a stone’s throw of all the Theatres.
Engage Your Rooms at Roberts’ Hotel.
Single Bedroom, 3s. per day; Double Room, 6e. per day.
VISITORS ONLY PAY FOR WHAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE.
Thus they are only changed for the meals consumed.
BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON and DINNER, from Is. per meal.
LUNCHEON daily, 12 till 2.30; DINNER, 6.30 till 7.30
Special Feature-RACE DAYS LUNCHEON, 11.30 till 2.30
Prompt Attendance, combined with Liberal and Varied Menus, have made this the
MOST POPULAR HOUSE in the City.
I TERMS.—The Convenient and Modern System of paying for a
room on arrival, and Meals as they are had.
HOTEL ENTRANCE a MARKET STREET. SYDNEY
WINCHESTER
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
f
g
jh
ĥg
fgj
A . BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
fgj
6 -V/VTION4/?y
laJ
CD
QQ
BY
ROYALTY.
iUf&iiusriJuu
Prevent worn-down heels and unshapely boots. Make one pair of boots
wear as long as two. Reduce fatigue, give grace to the walk and make
every step a pleasure.
Obtainable retail from all Storekeepers and Boot Stores throughout the States.
Wholesale only from D. & W. MURRAY, Ltd.,
Adelaide, Kalgoorlie, Launceston, Townsville, Perth, Melbourne, Brisbane, Broken Hill.
Sole Manufacturers of the Wood-Mllne Heels— REVOLVING HEEL Co., Preston, ENGLAND.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
3
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
3
B
The effect of Eno’s * Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.- See Capsule marked END’S ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without it you have •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr*par*d only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ’FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENQ.,
by J. O. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMIISSEN'SI'CI*
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
... . TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Wgajtjflen ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS.
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
~ Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23,6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness.
Special Powerful Double
Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed. Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing- Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYGMEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
WTiftMW
POST CARS
<CAR» 0
Sr
ns
ZO'-fr
ZUyoAcr
POST CARD
&
fflk
STT
H
TO INTRODUCE OUR NEW
PICTORIAL POST CARDS, best Id. Post Cardin Australia
As a huge advertisement we will forward to anyone sending their
name and address, 120 of our best Id. post cards free. Anyone may
send. We want no money. We merely ask you to sell these post card«
amongst your friends in packets of six at 6d per packet. After selling
the cards (which will not take long) you return the 10s. and we send j
you any present you may choose from a list we send. By continuing
the sale of these cards you may earn a Solid Sterling Silver Watch '
(Lady’s or Gent’s). We take all risks. Cards returnable if not sold. i
Send at once to THE PICTORIAL POST CARD CO., * /
Falmouth Chambers,
Sydney, N.S. Wales. /£
HARDY’S
700 Prizes*
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney and Adelaide.
Another Convincing Proof.
THIS TIME AT MERRYLANDS.
The Case of Mr. H. ALMOND, I
(By a Local Reporter.)
Whilst much of the anguish and grief
which exist in some famdies as the re-
sult of ill-health is hid from the gaze
oi the outside world, and is known
only to those who are immediately
concerned, sufficient transpires to ex-
cite the sympathy of every genuine
philanthropist, and to bring forth
strenuous efforts on behalf of suffering
humanity. Here is an instance in which
the reader will recognise a desiro on
the part of Mr. Henry Almond, store-
keeper, Park-road, Merrylands, to ex-
tend a helping hand to any who may
be afflicted as he was some years back.
“it was when I was living in Tam-
worth/' said Mr. Almond, “that I
first knew what bad health was, and
that must be a good while back, for i
have been living here these fourteen
years past."
“In. what way was your health af-
fected V' enquired a man from the
office.
“Well, for two years previous to
coming here, and for a good while af-
ter starting this business, I was al-
most mad with neuralgia, and you
may guess that having a complaint
like that so long must have had a
direful effect upon my system general-
ly. Really, sometimes I was fairly rag-
ing, owing to the agony i was in, and
many a time wished that I was dead
and out of the world altogether. Oh !
it was a life of fearful misery, and I
pity any poor soul in similar straits.
iou may rest assured that I resorted
to pretty well every known treatment
in the hope of gaining some relief, buff
success evaded all my efforts. My
gums, my jaws, the cheek bones were
the parts where the torture principally
existed ; but, curiously enough, there
were days when one side of my face
and head was affected till nightfall,
and then the pains shifted over to the
other side. And as for sleep—well, do
you think anybody could sleep under
such adverse circumstances? I know l
couldn’t, as a rule, though, at long
intervals, when nature could not hold
out any longer, I lapsed into a state
of unconsciousness that might be called
sleep, and whilst it lasted I had the
worst dreams you could think of."
“I don’t suppose you were usually
lit to do much work ?’’
“Indeed I was not, and T was also
so low-spirited that I did not seem to
care whether I was ever able to work
again or not. As a matter of fact I
had no interest in anything, excepting
that T wanted to get better if it were
possible, which didn’t seem very like-
ly, tor instead of getting better 1 got
worse as the months wore on. Short I v
after the neuralgia attacked me. I no-
ticed that my digestion was getting
bad, and so it continued to fail until
eventually my internal organs were so
completely upset that even the lightest
of food could not be assimilated. A
heavy sensation in the chest, which
made it impossible to draw a deep
breath, was one of my daily discom-
forts, and after eating a little mv
stomach became inflated, and caused
considerable discomfort until the wind
was all belched away. My tongue had
a dirty coating, and the taste in mv
mouth of a morning w’as most dis-
agreeable—clearly indicating the bi-
lious state I was in; and another
thing that troubled me was my sight
—very poor indeed sometimes, while
my eyes felt twice their proper size,
and as heavy as lead. Between my
shoulders I had more pains to bear,
and I ached so much across the loins
that it was painful to walk even a
short distance. But you’ve no idea of
the fearful state of nervousness I got
into —used to give little jumps and
twdtches, as though I had St. Vitus’
dance sometimes, and. the unsettled
frame of mind I was in gave rise to
much, mental misery also. Simple mat-
ters irritated me, and caused unduo
excitement, and 1 tell you candidly 1
couldn t find a moment's peace or hap-
piness anyhow.”
After so much ineffective treatment
bow did you manage to get well
again?'’
‘‘ibis way : A new customer came to
the shop one day, and, seeing how ill
1 was, said ‘Did you ever try Clements
Tonic V 1 said : ‘.No ; and I’m sick of
taking physics.’ He came in again, and
asked if I had got any yet, to which
1 answered in the negative. He said :
‘Well, try a bottle; it won’t break
you/ and at last 1 did, for which I
am devoutly thankful. Oh ! it was like
something you read about in a novel,
the way Clements Tonic served mo;
but it was a joyful reality neverthe-
less. To think that I had suffered for
years, and only then had got a re-
medy to do me good was something
to be thankful for, and 1 was, too.
Why, Clements Tonic began to sootho
my nerves when I had only taken two
or three bottles, and you couldn’t cre-
dit the amount of ease it had given me
already ; it roused the weakened ener-
gies of my system l and stimulated my
appetite to such a degree that before
long I was eating as well as ever—
when the neuralgia had entirely gone, of
course you can guess how grateful 1 was.
It is also in regard to indigestion that
Clements Tome is deserving of recogni-
tion at my hands, for that was, after
all, one of the principal things from
which I suffered. Yes ; my last remedy
fairly opened my eyes as to what me-
dicine really can do when it is of the
right kind, for in spite of everything
else failing, Clements Tonic set to
work, and put me right in no time. A
few weeks’ use of it made such an al-
tered man of me that T had nearly
forgotten what it was like_ to get. up
feeling half-dead with weariness. My
breath was sweet, and I had no un-
pleasant. taste in my mouth of a
morning, my eyes were bright and the
sight good, I slept soundly each-
night, every pain had gone, so what
more, could any man wish for ?”
“And what has your health been
like since V”
“Splendid, excepting on an occasion
when I contracted influenza through
getting up all hours at night during
mv wife’s illness. She was suffering
from influenza, too, and soon there
was a pair of us, so we had to close
shop for a while. My word, we did
have a bad time ! Wife got like a bag
of bones, but. Clements Tonic made her
eat four or five meals a day, and she
was soon well again l . I was awfully
weak and miserable ; mv nerves broke
down- again, and once more I suffered
the tortures of neuralgia; but not for
long though, as I knew what would
cure me, and so it did. Yes, Clements
Tonic showed its wonderful properties
again, and I’ve such belief in its cur-
ing capacities that I recommend its
use to all. More than that, you can
publish my story in any manner that
your mind may suggest.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
T, HENRY ALMOND, ot Park Road, .
Merrylands, In the State of New Soutli
Wales. Commonwealth of Australia, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consist-
ing- of fiv* folios, and consecutively numbered
from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any
way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believ-
isg the same to be true, and by virtue pi
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Merrylands this
twenty-third day of September, one thousand
nine hundred and four, before me,
GEORGE J. FINLAYSON, J.P.


SVN
ft
k
If it’s
Consumption
The best present you can
take home is a bottle of
Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
It quiets the cough, makes
breathing easy, and heals the
lungs. And it cures, even
advanced cases. Make no
mistake. Be sure and get
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the
standard cough remedy of
the world. Sold for 60 years.
Beware of imitations.
In large and small bottles.
Avoid constipation. Hasten a cure by the
use of Ayer’s Pills.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer Co., Lowell- Mess., U.S.-A*
Purveyors
by Royal Warrant
hg
To His Majesty
The King.
GUARANTEED PURE,
“MOIR’S”
WORCESTER
SAUCE
Quality & Flavor Unsurpassed.
“ MOIR’S "
GENUINE
“SCOTCH’’ OATMEAL
It is the strongest Meal obtain-
able, Packed in hermetically
sealed tins, and is very fattening
and nourishing.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [1
MARTIN’S
PILLS
A Safe Medicine for Ladies.
1 Thj reason is they are purely a vegetable
composition, and expressly suited to the con-
stitution and requirements of women. This
explains the great success and golden opinions
which follow their use. Thousands say they
1 save all trouble, effectually remove all impuri-
ties of the blood, beautify the complexion, no
1 headache, no pain, no flushing, ne giddiness,
no anxiety. They make work a pleasure, and
existence a joy. Superior to any other known
remedy, Price 5/-. Sold everywhere. Sole
1 proprietor, MARTIN, Pharmaceutical
Chemist, Southampton, England.
Don't
waste time in,
experimenting.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Ottbridge-s
v £ungTbntc
to be the WORLD'S CUREj
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can be obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
A
POLICY fob
Price,
the COMMONWEALTH,
6d. ; Posted, Bd.
jhg
“For
30 Years
I hare used Bonnington’*
Irish Moss for Cough*
and Colds, and any irrita-
tion of the bronohial tube*.
It always gives relief.”
That is a plain, straightforward statement.
We could supply hundreds such. Cough
remedies have come and gone, but
Bonnington’s
Irish Moss
the pioneer, is still the premier in public
favor. Strenuous advertising and pushing
of s ales will not sell a remedy if it is not
endorsed by public opinion. When you
get BONNINGTON’S you are safe, you
have the best. Some dealers, for the sake
of a few pence profit, try to sell you an
imitation. Do not be misled. Look care-
fully for the name, and
TAKE ONLY
“BONNINGTON’S.”
The “GOERZ” Binocular
FIELD GLASS.
jh
The FINEST CLASS IN THE WORLD.
Good for any Distance up to 20 Miles.
SUITABLE FOR TOURIST, RACES,
MARINE, MILITARY, and all uses, and
absolutely invaluable to the Squatter.
Price £3 10s.
Size No. 9 —that is, magnifying nine times as
much as the ordinary Field-Glass.
In Solid Leather Case, with Name
or Initials stamped in Gold,
A LIMITED NUMBER ONLY AT THIS PRICE. ~m
OSBORN & JERDAN,
“My Opticians
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Amd)
Mzmff&dmk) -d'
d ddw/’ad'
<mdZaMJ dnadi d
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sweetest Eyes.
Grey Eyes ’neath a veil! did she know that I
watched her;
I lonely, she lovely, the ship faring restward ?
Grey Eyes, grey-veiled, pensively set on the
distance,
To mark the sea splendor that purpled to west-
ward.
Grey Eyes doubly-veiled, you had tears in your
vision—
A vague, other-world look that troubled the being ;
A shadow that hinted of grief ages-ancient,
Perchance a God’s sorrow set there for man’s
seeing.
The dark night descended, the stars lit the
heavens,
The ship drew to shore and the years came to
sever;
I heard the world’s war-cry, I sought the world’s
battle.
Grey Eyes, ah Grey Eyes, you will grieve for me
ever !
Brown Eyes ! well she knew in her heart that I
watched her.
Brown Eyes! madly merry and flooded with
laughter.
O, nymph of the past, do you mind the green
wood-place,
The chase, and the plea, and the kiss coming after ?
Brown Eyes! you were wicked and fickle and
shallow,
Else needless those rose leaves where rose lips
had wooed me.
Your lances left scars —lances launched at me
fleeing,
While you coming after, noose-flinging, pursued
me.
O huntress, heart-hunting, you showed me your
trophies.
Hearts red, and so many a huntress had never !
My soul scowled its scorn, and I left, but I
hunger:
Brown Eyes, oh Brown Eyes, you will tease mo
for ever!
Blue Eyes ! how she blushed and grew pale as I
watched her;
Truth’s windows, where Truth sat with Love at
his shoulder,
And Thoughts paused to look out, quaint Thoughts
bearing lilies,
Or Lights that lit sister-lights in the beholder.
Blue Eyes, you remember the winds in the garden
That set a torn bloom on a laughing girl's bosom ;
You know not, you guiltless, that other winds
famished
To set ’neath the world’s feet a daintier blossom.
I conquered, proud victor, but thorns for the
victor!
Where gain spells such loss, is it wise to endeavor ?
I know not, I spared you, I sit in the ashes !
Blue Eyes, ah Blue Eyes, I will love you for ever !
N.S.W.,
RODERICK QUINN.
Within Four Walls.
Far off the flaring crimsons of the morn
Light up the eastern sky ;
Near by the ghostly mists trail all forlorn,
The creek’s brown water softly sings and calls.
The world awakes to light and life, but I
Must watch the dreary days go drifting by
Within four walls.
Across the yellow plains that stretch in haze,
Dimly toward the range,
The heat-rays dance and quiver in noon’s blaze,
No happy bird or busy insect calls,
Serene the silence, wonderful and strange,
While I must lie, with never hope of change.
Within four walls.
Fade the last beams, the blue hills far away
Lights from the sunset borrow ;
Deep fall the shadows of the dying day,
The starry night in dusky purple falls.
What hope of change from nights and days of
sorrow—
“ To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow ”
Within four walls?
vic.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
The Bell-Rock.
Mine eyes are dry and old,
Fire-kisses have died away;
The swan of youth hath sung his song,
The world and the river are grey;
Over the brow of the dim blue hills
The marble palaces stand.
Or was it in dreams I passed along ?
Alas, for my song ! I cannot say;
I know the world and the river are grey,
And the journey hath been long.
My voice was a silver bell
When the princess came to me ;
I feel I answered the old nurse well
As she held me on her knee ;
Now I float by the Corsair rock,
And the tide begins to flow;
Soon now will the last wave swing the clock,
Alas ! for the silver bell ’twould mock,
With its music soft and low.
The journey it hath been long,
And the sunsets swim and play :
Through the swoon of the far-off shadows come
The dreams of another day.
Yes, better to pass along,
Nor the old world seek to stay ;
There’s a charm in the call of the tide-swung
gong,
Though the palaces stand in their marble throng,
And the world and the river are grey.
vie.
REGINALD CARRINGTON.


WATEROUS ENGINE WORKS CO., Ltd.,
MANUFACTURE ALL SIZES OF
BAND and CIRCULAR SAW MILLS
AND ALL MODERN SAW MILL ACCESSORIES.
Engines A Water Tube Boilerm, Woodworking Machinery, Steam Pumps, &c., &c.
Sole Aoent for Australasia :
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Buildings, George St., Sydney.
ml:l?Naii;oKi
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Afections.
IDINNEFORD.
IMAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Goat
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Gentle Medicine for
Infants, Children,
Delicate Females,
and the
Sickness of Pregnancy.
ĥ
LADIES’ (Eb GENT.'*
Watches (SI Chains,
Birthday RINGS
Brooches, Curb Chain Bracelets-FREE.
A Solid Gold Ladies’ or Gent.’s Watch costs
from to £ 10. Don’t throw your money
away. If you want a watch that will equal for
time any solid gold watch made, send us your
name and address at once, and we will send
you 8 boxes of our famous New Life Electine
| Vegetable Pills to sell at i/- a box—a grand
[ remedy and cure for all impure and weak con-
| ditionsof the blood, kidney and liver trouble, a
cure for constipation and weak nervous disor-
tonic and a life builder. Our pills are
genuine, and are carefully manufactured from
the very best drugs. They are easy to sell.
Send us your order at once, and we will send
you the 8 boxes, postage paid. When sold you I
send us our money, 8/-, and we will send you |
your prize. We are giving these watches and i
other prizes to quickly introduce our pills,
and when you receive your premium we ask you to show it to your friends. This is a grand oppor-
tunity to get a and Chain Free. Send us your name and address at once. You
take no risk. Electime Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
w
©
»« 1
a Few Remarks From the Department of Public Health.
_ T , , , Head Office, Wellington, N.Z., 16th May, iqos.
„ „ Ge ?V r em J' 1 n > -^ 1 £ av ? to acknowledge receipt of your formulae of " Electine Kidney Bean »
New Life, Blood Tonic and Nerve Pill,” “ Electine Little Liver Granules ” and “ Electine Cold
and Headache Tablets.” I am glad to see that you are not ashamed to put your formula on
the outside of each box. I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant
The Electine Medicine Co., Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W. Dr. J. W. MASON, Chief Health Officer.
ħj
VISITORS TO SYDNEY.
o?s:e
Empire Hotel,
PITT & HUNTER STS.
THIS HOTEL is situated in the highest
and best position of Sydney, close to the
Botanical Gardens, Government House,
Circular Quay (the landing-place of all large
Ocean Mail Steamers), near principal Clubs,
Theatres, and within two minutes’ walk of
G.P.O. It is most elegantly furnished
throughout; Sanitary Arrangements are of
the very latest. Electrically lighted through-
out, and elevators to every floor.
Smoking, Commercial Rooms,
and Ladies' Drawing Rooms,
and Library, &c.
TARIFF
BACK ROOMS - - - from £2 2s. Weekly
FRONT ROOMS - - from £3 3s. Weekly
JAHES JACKSON, Proprietor (Late Western Australia and Queensland).
Weak Nerved People
h
This is to people who lack courage, whose nerves are
shaky, whose eyes have lost the sparkle, whose brains are
muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless, confidence gone,
spirits low, who are hesitating, unable to venture, because
they are afraid of failure, who want somebody to decide for
them. It is to people who have part or all of these symp-
toms of nervousness and want new life, new force. We
offer it to you in the
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
It pours glowing, exhilarating vitality into you while you
sleep ; it rejuvenates, animates sluggish circulation, stimu-
lates the brain to activity, and fills the body with life and
ambition.
It furnishes the motive power that runs your body, and
quickly banishes pain. It cures Nervous Disorders, Lum-
bago, Rheumatism, Stomach, Liver, Kidney and Bowel
Troubles, and that Tired Feeling, after every other treat-
ment has failed.
WHB3\r CURED
Any honest man or woman, who will secure us, can have our Belt, and pay for it when
cured. _ Our Belt is better and stronger than any made, and never burns or blisters the flesh.
FREE BUOK.—Our iew Illustrated Book Ceils about our Belt, and how it cures the weaknesses of men
and women. We send it FREE, upon request. WRITE TO-DAY, and you will be satisfied with the result.
The Dr. Austin Improved Electric Belt Co.. PeptTl.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B. —New Zealand Clients will please Communicate DIRECT to the above address.
We are receiving- Testimonials daily from Grateful Patients.
ROTherhaiyis
ENGLISH WATCHES.
Speciality :—
MODELE DE LUXE WATCHES
WITH RATE CEftTIFrCATE.
<sold by all
WHO-OAN-SHOW-
Jewellers.
tUUSTRMtDCMMOGUES
jgh
Y*
S
«»KI
%
gh
FOREIGN AND OLD
AUSTRALIAN POSTAGE
STAMPS FOR SALE.
Selections on Approval against
References.
Sets and Packets of Stamps, Albums,
&c., Price Lists Post Free.
WALTER A. HULL,
No. lO Strand, Sydney
Mr. J. KING, Swan’s St., North Freemantle, W. Australia,
HAS BEEN CURED
OF A SCROTAL
RUPTUR
*3*
✓
Mb. J. KING
of 20 years' standing without operation, and has dis«
carded his truss. He had suffered not only from his rupture,
but also from the effects of ill-fitting spring trusses, which caused
more pain than the rupture. He had given up all hopes of a cure
until he heard of the Rice method. He tried it and it cured him
Thousands of men, women and children have been cured by this
method without pain, danger or operation. Among them are
Chas. Pittner, Mossman, via Port Douglas, Queensland; Mrs.
P. Medley, 331, Swan Street, Richmond, Melbourne L. Exton
(child), 2, Harold Street, Newtown, near Sydney, N.S.W.; and
J. Westhead, River Darling, Pooncaria, N.S.W. Your rupture
cannot be worse than some I have cured. You owe it to yourself to
at least investigate carefully this method of cure. BEWARE of
any person or persons claiming to be or to have been at any time
connected with me in business in any way. Such statements are
absolutely fraudulent and devoid of all foundation. BEWARE
of all imitations of my method. The genuine Rice method can be
obtained from my London office only. I will send you a book
giving a complete description of rupture and its cure, and telling
why the Rice method has succeeded in so many thousands of
cases, if you will write for it. Do not be misled by worthless
guarantees, but write for my world-wide-known and tested
method. Write to-day to W. S. RICE, Rupture Specialist
Stonecutter Street, London, E.C.
WILL ANDRADE’S « BOOK
gh
BOOK OF NATURE and Il-
lustrated Marriage Guide
by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated
with over 50 engravings,new
1904 edition, hard covers,
improved, 3s 6d. Magic Up-
to-Date, East Conjuring
Tricks for Beginners, illus-
trated, Is. Horse and
Cattle Doctor, 6d. Ned
Donelly’s Art of Boxing,
new enlarged edition, 40
engravings, Is. Maria
Monk, is 6d How to
Dance, Is. Moll Flanders,
a rare book by De Foe, Is
3d. Nana; Piping Hot;
Rush for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.'
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series,
2s. Little Folks’ Reciter, Popular Reciter,
Humorous ' Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger
Stump Speeches, Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat
Gould’s Novels, 6d each, posted Bd. Devil in Sy-dney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting and
Papering, Is 3d. Dog Keeping, Is 3d. My Neighbor
Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d. How to Play Billiards,
Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ;
post, Is 3d. Britain for the British, 6d.
Freemasonry Exposed and Explained, 1905 edi-
tion, with key to all degrees, Is. Cycle Building
and Repairing, new edition. 190 illustrations, Is Bd.
Macfadden’s Physical Training, Is. Virile Powers
or Superb Manhood, s*. Decameron of Boccaccio, Hep-
tameron, and many others, all in cheap edition. Bride
of the First Night, 1/3. Rosario, the Female Monk,
2'. How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters, Is 3d.
Staining, Varnishing and Polishing Wood, Is 3d.
Electric Bells, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing,
1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clair-
voyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ; post Is
3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy. Is. How
to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and Re-
pairing. Is 3d. How to Make Love. Is. Modern
Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is. Picture
Frame Making, Is 3d. Poultry Keeping, Is,
Is 6d and ss; posted. Parlor Magic, Is. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, Is, 2s and 3s posted.
Every Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is.
Money Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets,
Is 3d Letter Writer Up -to - Date, Is.
Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of ‘Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
Self Instructor, Is. French Art Studies, real
photos, 200 kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
Bothner’s Scientific Wrestling, 66 full-page photos.,
Is. Engineer's Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Advice to Women, Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr. Milford’s
Midwive’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d. Stolen Sweets. Is6d.
Blacksmith’s Work, is 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, is, Latest Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Webster’s Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post.
Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Age of Reason, Is 3d.
Ingersoll’s Works, 6d, Is. 2s 6d, and 6s 6d.
ANu ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Zingara Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love,
Business, Futurity, etc., with full directions, Is;
posted, Is 3d.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do. Free
catalogues:—No. 1: Plays, Reciters, Make-up, etc.
No. 2: Conjuring Apparatus and Books. No. 3:
French Novels in English. No. 4: Books for Pre-
sents. No 5 : Useful and Mechanical Books. No. 6;
Books for the Married. No. 7 : Advanced Literature.
508 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE. —.
JAYNE’S EXPECTORANT
CURES THE WORSTCOUGHS.
NOTICE
To sufferers from Gout,Rheumatism,Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of Head, Face, or
Limbs.
The Old Reliable English Remedy.
PATERNOSTER’S PILLS.
Prepared by Poingukstuk & Truman, of
71 Old Keut Hoad, Loudon.
Renowned for over a century for quick
efficacy, as proved by testimonials from all
parts of the World. Is sold by all Chemists
in the Australian Colonies.
Truman s NURSERY LOTION,
By one application only, effectually destroys
all Parasites of Head or Body.
SOLD IN TWO BIZKS, 9d. & Is. 6d.
N.B.—lnsist upon having TRUMAN’S
LOTION, and no disappointment can occur.
Prepared by Poingdkstrk & Truman,
71 Old Kent Road, London, and sold by all
Chemists in the Australian Colonies.
DR. LANGSTON’S
ELECTRO-REGENERATOR
Patent applied for.
The Acme of Scientific Ingenuity—
The Triumph of Modern Medical In-
vestigation—The Finality in Curative
Electric Treatment.
NOT BEING
A BELT
it will not burn or blister the
skin-There is nothing to
wear round the body to
foster germs—lt is sure,
safe, speedy, secret and simple.
No Electric Belt is worth more than
£1 of anyone’s money. The best
English and American Belts can be had
from Second-hand Dealers or Auction
rooms for a few shillings. INVESTIGATE
for yourself, and don’t be persuaded to
part with your money foolishly.
WRITE
for my new book (illustrated) “Mens
Sana in Corpore Sano.” A treatise
ou nerve diseases and ailments of mem The
latest medical thought put in the most instruc-
tive and interesting manner. It will tell you
what you ought to know and wha fc you want
to know. POSTED FREE.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S.
i Eng.
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST-
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
S'sriDiisrzE'y.


r Perspiration and Dust, 1
so disagreeable, yet so common in hot
weather, can easily be removed by using [
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
Toilet Soap.
A pleasantly perfumed pure antiseptic
soap which can be used for all toilet
purposes and as a preventive of conta-
gion. It contains 10% Crystal Carbolic,
and so has a healthy action on the skin,
and assists to improve the complexion.
Calvert’s Carbolic Ointment
contains pure Carbolic Acid (healing and
antiseptic) and other useful ingredients
to cure or alleviate sunburn, chafed
gltin, piles, cuts, burns, insect bites, &c.
P. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
No
Humbugging
Offers or con
ditions to
comply with.
FREE
In order to introduce our Goods into every
home, a lady’s or gent.’s Rolled Gold Watch
Chain and Pendant will be presented, entirely
free, to each purchaser of one pair of our Special
Cuff Links, price, 4/9. Please note (hat we send
the Watch Chain and Pendant complete in case
with warranty along with the Cuff Links, im-
mediately we receive your postal note for 4/9 ;
if 3d extra is added goods will be sent bv regis-
tered post, and thereby save any risk of breakage.
Address, THE INTRODUCING COMPANY,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
hĝh
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1904 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lam ar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How TO Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted. Marie
Corelli’s God’s Good Man, 2s 9d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason s How
to Train the Horse, Is 6d. Passion’s Paradise, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aus r. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman, and the Confessional,
Is 6d posted. Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. & B. FOOTE.
18 Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
•■' *• work. It will be posted to
cloth-covered edition of this great woi
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS
AND SIXPENCE.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-workingi for Ama-
trurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
post'd. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Inquirer’s Oracle ; What to do and How to do it,
3000 subjects, Is 3d. Self Instructor : Every Man
His Own Schoolmaster, Is posted. Cabinet Makers
Handybook, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Training,
Is. Elements of Social Science, 3s 6d. On Our
New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life of Pleasure, Is Gd.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught, Is 2d.
All thesa prices Post Paid.
Don’t bo fooled Into paying; wor*.
Compare my price* with other* and
lvo your cash. DGF Established SO Ysavs*
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE OOT FROH THIS A DVT.
»
Write for my......
gig Illustrated Catalogue
•Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Advice to Women, Is post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. 0100 Dancing Made East, la.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is posted.
All About Incubators, Is 2d. Me roan’s Freemasonry,
Is 2d post. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 3d posted.
Toxology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s.
Ingersoll’s Complete Works, 2s. Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cjrds, Love, Business, Futurity, &c., with
full a reefons, Is posted. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Pd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. The
Slide Rule and How to Use It, Is fid post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 Ulus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s . Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. French
Art Studies, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen. New Tricks
with Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, la 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
ROBERT HURST,
FLINDERS ST., SWANSTON ST.,
BOURKE ST.,
All Suburbs, and Ballarat.
HELBOURNE.
No. 271 H.
Special
Gentlemen's
“Zephyr” Kid
Balmorals,
Welted,
Guaranteed,
12s. 6d.
No. 271 H.
This BOOT is made
in any Shape to
suit Customers,
and will be mailed
anywhere in the
Commonwealth
for
13s. 6d
Robert Hurst,
MELBOURNE, all . . .
Suburbs, and Ballarat.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT ( AND
RESTORES eyelashes.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
INI EL VEER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
AUSHM&N anil BUCCANEER
Posted is. Id,
MEN’S DISEASES.
Private, Nervous, Skin,
and Blood Diseases, Loss
of Vitality and Vigor,
Rupture, Varicocele, and
all kindred disorders
cured SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY, and
PERMANENTLY.
Health, Strength, Vigor, Happi-
ness, Energy, and Ambition
restored by Australasia’s lead-
ing and most successful
Specialist. Has more testi-
monials than any other
Physician In Australasia.
j
Almost any Practitioner can af-
ford relief ; but men who are weak
and despondent require thorough
and permanent cures. Such cures
are effected daily by Dr. W. Garter
Watson, Chief Physician and Sur-
geon of the
Sydney Institute of
Medicine & Electricity.
He is registered by Government
Medical Boards, and when he
undertakes your case you run no
risk. His methods of treatment
are envied by less skilful Practi-
tioners. He never uses mercury or
other dangerous drugs, and his
remedies are prepared personally in
his private Laboratories. When
he says he will cure you thoroughly
HE IS READY TO BACK HIS STATEMENT
by a forfeit of £250, and testimonials of hundreds of cured patients, not only ini Sydney, I but from eywy
town and village in Australasia. He invites you to call and have a confidential chat abouty
thorough examination and consultation will cost you nothing, and he will explain his meth a
weak and diseased men Strong, Healthy and Vigorous. It may be that you have beenunsucce y
by numerous practitioners. That is not evidence that you are incurable. It means that the treatment was
administered unskilfully. DR. WATSON offers you correct treatment that will make a man of you, as it nas
made of others.
Home Cures by Mail.
DR. WATSON cures a great many patients every year
without seeing them. This system of treatment is a
special and scientifically managed Department. If
3 r ou cannot call, write at once for a diagnosis blank which covers every symptom. Your case'Can e
diagnosed as minutely and treated as skilfully in this manner as by a personal interview. H g
work, “MALADIES OF MANKIND "
is sent FREE to any address on receipt of sixpence in stamps to defray postage. This large valuable worK
contains 53 profusely-illustrated chapters on the functions of the human body, and properly-applied
Electricity as an adjunct to medicine.
FREE ADVICE,
REMEDIEB
(including:
Carriage),
£1
I Dr. W. Carter Watson, M.D.,
Etc.,
Etc.,
Chief Physician and Surgeon
SYDNEY INSTITUTE Of MEDICINE AND ELECTRICITY,
70 & SO Hunter-at., Sydney
HOURS —
10 to 5 Daily.
Eveningrs, 7 to 9
Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday.
the
‘PLUM’
hg
THB
‘PLUM’
p ENTLEMEN.—This razor is superior to any other. It is specially tempered, perfectly hollow £ roun^’.^ n ”!
like a bell, and never requires grinding. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we know the exact kina oi
edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for a number of years, can t y
their merits. WE GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR STROP, *"
snprnallv for thia Razor. 7§* Bd#
“ RAZO LEO ” LIGHTNING RAZOR SHARPENER, 6d. cake.
_ /Single Razor, in strong Leather Case, 10*. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful Morocco Leather Case, 210,
Pr,c * \ Single Razor, in Ivory Handle, 155.; Pair Razors, Ivory Handle*, m beautiful oase, 30a.
*
Sole Agents:
Registered and Sent Post Free to any Part of the World.
f~ Please add 6d. exchange on Country and It. on Intercolonial Cheques
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George-st., Sydney*
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
y .■s.-jujwiMJiMHi.m ii«’tr« in .'.mail .nr n", miming*
All Consignment of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay apeoial
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.


JAS. HENNESSY & CO., COGNAC.
GUARANTEE. Every drop of Jas. Hennessy & Coy.’s well=known ONE
and THREE STAR BRANDIES is Pure Grape Spirit
distilled from Wine only.
CAUTION. . . The Public should insist upon having Jas. Hennessy &
Coy.’s original bottle and white and gold label as
shipped by them from Cognac.
TARIFF COMMISSION. Extract from the “Lancet” Special Commission on Brandt: “According to our view it is just as dishonest to describe grain spirit and its
congeners as ‘ brandy ’ as it would be to call margarine ‘ butter,’ especially bearing in mind the medicinal applications of
brandy and its special adaptability as distinct from all other spirits for the purpose.”
MURRELLS * BECKER,
Manufacturers of
Sporting and Travelling Goods.
gh
THE TRAVELLERS' DEPOT,
SANDOW
stands tor Strength and Beauty.
If you have not played with a
Sandow you have not kicked the best ball in Aus-
tralia. Shape, Weight and Wear guaranteed.
Write for one—l4/6. Other sizes and qualities
from 2/6.
No. 7, A.M.P. Buildings,
Edward St., Brisbane, Sept. 2,1904.
Messrs. Murrells & Becker, Brisbane.
Gentlemen, —I have very much pleasure in inform-
ing you that the “ Sandow ” Footballs manufactured
by your firm, and which we used in all the matches
in connection with Great Britain, have given entire
satisfaction to both the Queensland and Australian
teams. The balls reflect great credit on your firm,
and it is extremely gratifying to find that such an
excellent article can be procured in the colonies.—
Yours faithfully, MAURICE BALDWIN, Hon. Sec.
Queensland Rugby Union.
Shin Guards, Punching- Balls, Bladders, Cloves
and Swivels always in stocli.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE B.
360 Collins St., MELBOURNE
212 Edward St., BRISBANE
BUY A WATCH
BUT
si
/
Buy a good one. It pays in the end. You want a
Watch that will give you perfect time.
H.B. LEVER WATCHES
are unequalled for Timekeeping.
Every Watch is Timed and Examined and
G-uaranteed.
Price 21s.
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Nickel Silver or Gun Metal Cases.
PI-
HEINDORFF BROS., 210 Queen St., BRISBANE.
NESTLES MILK
THE WORLD’S STANDARD. BEST QUALITY.
Nestles Milk Food
FOR CHILDREN.
THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR MOTHER’S MILK.
THE WHITE HALF PAGE.
An advertising writer knocked
Upon the pearly gate,
St. Peter came, and, looking, asked
His business, age and weight.
When he knew him for a writer
He sadly shook his poll,
And said, “ Alas 1 you cannot pass,
My friend, the Heavenly toll.”
The writer gently smiled and said,
“ Peter, old boy, I’ve heard
A little yarn they spin of you
And a certain Barnyard Bird—
Surely to write advertisements
Can be no greater sin... ? ”
“ Forget it," snarled the worried saint—
“ Forget it, and come in.”
Voice of the Sphinx.
NAILS AND TIN CATS
This space has, for over two years, been devoted
to extolling the merits of a certain roofing. If the
following pars, give that particular brand of
roofing a free advertisement they may, like the
sailor caught praying, excuse themselves on the
plea that it occurs so seldom.
The columns of The Bulletin have been used
for advertising the merits of all kinds of roofings,
except stringy bark, the boilers at Circular Quay,
and the rocks of the Domain, but for downright
cussedness the following takes the cake.
THE TRAGEDY OF THE GREAT
In a narrow street in the city of Cologne,
within a stone’s throw of its magnificent cathe-
dral, stands a mean, low weather-beaten house—
a, land-mark of history, romance and sorrow, for
in that place one of the world’s most famous
women, Maria de Medici, died in abandonment
and misery. Driven out of France by her son,
she became a fugitive and a vagabond. England,
Germany, and Switzerland drove her out. She
wandered to Cologne, and there, in a wretched,
leaky tenement, starved and neglected, she per-
ished—the wife, mother and daughter of a King.
What would she not have given in her last ex-
tremity for the rpof to have been covered with
Ruberoid?
Pick this flower, and the garden is turned into a
howling wilderness. A big saw-mill proprietor
Somewhere between North Head and Bourke
“ did not want any imitations of Rub-beroid, not
even Roo-beroid,” but when it was pointed out to
him that his mill was already roofed with Ruberoid,
he not only apologised, but bought four more rolls.
The man who sold him the Ruberoid called it
Rub-beroid, and he was so scared of the imitator
that he thought Ruberoid was an imitation of
Rub-beroid.
&
Here is another, and the man who wrote it
should have his Little Mary encircled with
Anchor Fence, and be compelled to wear a Giant
Paper chest-protector to keep the damp out of his
lungs :
“ National Park is one of the beauty spots of New South
Wales. Standing at the massive gates of that huge
reserve, one beholds a scene of great magnificence. But
it is not alone the view that repays the visitor ; the des-
cent to the valley is fraught with the profoundest interest.
The road curves round the hill-side, and at every turn one
gets a glimpse of a beautiful stream winding its silvery
way through verdure to be found only in this evergreen
land. National Park is a place to dream one’s life away,
for, apart from the peacefulness, the magnificence of the
scenery, the hills
‘ Bathed in the tenderest purple of the distance,
Tinted and shadowed by pencils of air,’
the six picturesque shelter-houses, all roofed with
Ruberoid, offer a resting place such as can only be offered
by a shelter-house roofed with Ruberoid."
<£*
When the earth is advertised over,
And postered from zone to zone,
When there isn’t another inch of room
The agent may call his own ;
When the roofs are covered with “ Ruberoid,”
And the land sprouts “ Anchor Pence,”
The walls all lined with “ Giant Paper,”
And the farmer is saving his pence,
It is then that the advertising agent
Will feel most awfully mean
Because he omitted to take this space
To advertise “ Ruberine."
Voice of the Sphinx.
P OOR RIIjTj
It is not often that a man is unlucky enough to
have both legs broken through shaking dice, and
yet that is what happened to poor Bill. His other
name is known to all our readers, but, thank
heaven, his face has escaped their memories. Both
legs had to be amputated at the knee, and, as the
result of a “ generously-responded-to ” subscrip-
tion list, he was presented with a pair of wooden
legs. Last week Bill wrote to E. Rich and Co.,
Ltd., stating that he was free from corns, bunions,
and chilblains, but would like a tin of Avenarius
to keep the white ants out of his stumps.
&
Ah, well, we can only say with Jerrold
** u^_i es t trades have their moments of
pleasure. Now, if I were a gravedigger, or even a
with?t”’ f h H re w S0 ? le pe °P le 1 eould work for
with a great deal of enjoyment/*
Here he goes again—just a bit higher in price:—
“Coupons are not given with Avenarius.
But we know a woman up in the Northern Terri-
tory who Was choosing a coffin to bury her dead
husband. She looked at two kinds, one was priced
£3, the other £4, Now the £3 coffin was just the
required length for the late lamented, while the
£4 one was a trifle short. She decided on the £4
casket, and when asked for a reason stated that
she was collecting coupons, and required just £4
worth to fill her book.”
We don’t see anything very funny in that
story. In fact, we don’t believe the writer. Had
he said straight out that Avenarius would
not only protect even coffins being destroyed by
white ants we would have believed him. For we
know that white ants and Avenarius can’t
occupy the same paddock.
If you prefer your steak rare, just try this little
bit of underdone :
“ The streets of Heaven may be paved with
gold, but the floors of the Public Works Depart-
ment are covered with Ruberoid floorcloth, and
countless millions of deputations have failed to
make an impression on it.”
The floor of Paddy’s Market is just as likely to be
inlaid with liquid diamonds as the streets of
Heaven to be paved with gold.
#
Here’s another hors <Voeuvre that is not alto-
gether out of place :
“ You cannot make a good roofing out of an inferior
imitation. If it is not good, take it not: if;it is not
Ruberoid, use it not.” — Muldoon’s Wife.
We have heard of Goodge, Brady, Lawson and
Tennyson, and have seen a few of Souter’s cats,
but never before have we heard of Muldoon’s
Wife.
Here’s a cut to square leg off Bill Shakspeare’s
bat:—
Doubt that the stars are fire,
That vacuum’s a void;
Doubt Truth to be a liar,
But .don’t doubt Ruberoid.
That tit-bit is in a class by itself, but we will
refrain from saying what class it is in. We believe
Bacon fielded the ball well, and quickly returned
it to Oliver Cromwell, who was keeping wickets,
otherwise old Bill and John Knox would probably
be running yet.
And yet, wherever one goes, Potts Point with
its mansions, Mosman’s Bay with its pretty villas,
or the humble weather-board cottage away in the
heart of Australia, the engine houses at Singleton <
Newcastle, Hamilton, Goulburn, Murrurundi, the
huge factory buildings in Sydney, the same old i
Ruberoid meets and gives you welcome. The best;
is not too good for the rich, consequently they will i
have Ruberoid on the Roof or Ruberoid floorcloth!
on the floor. The man in the bush very often has;
Ruberoid not only on the roof and floor but has;
tanks made from it, silos covered with it, sheds;
built entirely of it, dams lined with it and his boots
soled with it. The Railway Commissioners select
it because no other roofing will stand like Ruberoid.
How’s this for a pearl of great price :
Notwithstanding the fact that over a hundred shearers
were seated in the woolshed, the silence was terrible.
Just then Ringer Joe stepped forward and played the
banjo with one hand, the mouth-organ with the other,
and the cornet with his feet. The silence was broken
with deafening shouts of applause which resounded and
re-echoed beneath the Ruberoid roof.
What an imagination for an advertisement-
writer !
OUR JOKES
The writer of the advertisements for that well-
known roofing, Ruberoid, not only objects to
Bulletin readers writing to Messrs. E. Rich &
Co., Ltd., for an explanation of his jokes, but is
of the opinion that if the reader does not see any-
thing funny in what comes out of his boil, and
writes asking where the humor escapes, it simply
shows lack of appreciation on the part of the
reader, and incidentally causes the writer to
swear.
The last stroke makes the horseshoe :
Lost to shame is that woman who takes no pride in her-
reputation, who does not value her good name ; but sunk
to the lowest depths of degradation is the builder who
neglects to use Ruberoid Dampcourse.
He must have taken a trip to the new railway
station, and pondered over the block of ages.
There is evidently but one dampcourse, and that
one Ruberoid. Now, will you be good ?
&
Anybody would think that Ruberoid was the •
only roofing worthy of the name, and yet, when
you come to think of it a second time, it certainly
is the best roofing for Australia : cool in summer
—warm in winter —any handy man can lay it —
cheap, but durable —and the man who wants more
for his money should go and get his bumps felt.
At least, that is what we think.
#
The preceding paragraphs are only fit for lead-
ing articles for the Sydney Mokning Herald, .
but nevertheless each carries a moral— ,
Avoid an “oid ” that is not Ruberoid.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 26.—N0. 1323.
THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1905.
Prior 6d.
THE BENEFACTOR.
In the course of an address on Socialism to a meeting of the Women’s Liberal League, at North Sydney, the other evening, Mrs. Osborne said that there were many different
kinds of Socialism but they were all alike, inasmuch as the object was to repress individuality and to increase the power of the State. The lecturer quoted Milton’s line: “To
disenthrone the King of Heaven, we war, if war we must,” in support of the theory that Satan was the first Socialist.— Newspaper Item.
THE DYING SEAMSTRESS (shaking him cordially by the tail): "GOOD-BYE! YOU’RE THE ONLY FRIEND I EVER HAD. I’VE JUST HEARD
FROM THE WOMEN’S LIBERAL LEAGUE THAT IT WAS YOU AS GOT MY WAGES RAISED.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ A iisfrttlin for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS',
(In Advance, Only)
P.er Annum ... ... £i g 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Ry sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
// on> to A ddre.s.s Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name, “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified a/nd stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ‘will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, , farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in UlncJe and, White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current, event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgaie Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <fc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
H. It. Harrison, Johannesburg ; Argus Printing Co.,
Rhodesia; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
TTis
THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1905.
THE FEDERAL LABOR PARTY AND
THE STINKING FISH PARTY.
When the next all-Australian Labor conference
gathers together, it will find awaiting discussion a
question which is not on the programme, but
which, none the less, will rise up like a butchered
citizen’s ghost, and enforce attention. That
question is : “ How far has the Labor party been a
political failure?” It cannot be denied that a
very large section of the outside world does regard
Australian Labor-in-polities as a failure—a deadly
and, at the same time, a ridiculous failure —a
failure so vast and so obvious as to be a jest for the
human race at large. Thanks to the Stinking
Fish party in Australia—that bitterly Tory and
mostly Freetrade organisation which supplies the
globe in general with Ananias and Sapphika
yarns re Australian affairs —it is widely believed
that there is nothing wicked, childish, or
suicidal that it is in the power of any political
party to do which the Labor party hasn’t done,
or isn’t just going co do. The writer knew a
great deal of this in times past, from close study
of British, South African, and other papers, but
it wasn’t until he took a recent holiday trip in
Southern Asia that he realised into what un-
expected places the Stinking Fish organisation
had spread. Then he found that Australia and
its Labor party—the latter being generally sup-
posed to run Australia, and to be responsible for
all the things that have happened, and very many
that haven’t—were more or less known, and
always known unfavorably, on the borders of
Afghanistan, on the edge of Cashmere, and on the
southern frontier of China. Even the smallest,
maddest rag published in all that area seemed to
have, at some time or other, .been supplied with
a profusion of Australian Stinking Fish literature,
and to have been misinformed about the Petriana
and the Six Hatters. It appears to be time for the
Federal Labor party to come out of its shell and
hit back.
* * * *
The only possible way to refute the charge of
failure is to succeed. Success covers everything,
while failure is the Stinking Fish party’s oppor-
tunity. And the world has a very simple measure
—and, on the whole, a reasonably true measure—
of what constitutes success. If what is commonly
called a “new” country can show that its indus-
tries are growing fast, that it can supply abun-
dance of employment for its own people, and that
its policy has made it so good a country that it is
rushed by desirable immigrants and can find work
for these immigrants, then the world respects it,
and no Stinking Fish party can destroy that
respect. If it can’t show these things, then the
world sets it down as a failure, and is ready and
willing to believe almost any slander that George
Reid, or William M‘Millan, or Bruce Smith, or
George Pile, “land speculator, of Balmain,”
may utter concerning it. Canada and the United
States have more rigid laws against the importa-
tion of contract labor than Australia has, and
they enforce these laws, which the Commonwealth
doesn't; yet while the Six Hatters, whom Aus-
tralia didn't exclude after all, have become a
bye-word and a jest and an insult, no one
points the finger of scorn or condemnation
at the exclusions actually carried out by
Canada and the United States. The United
States, it is reckoned, will, despite whole-
sale shutting-out of undesirables, attract a million
immigrants this year, and Canada about 200,000 ;
and their growing industries hold out a reasonable
prospect of work for all these comers. When
their policy is called in question by old-world
critics, the lofty retort of these countries is : “If
our methods make our land so desirable as this, no
poor, wretched, worn-out old country like yours,
that can’t find work for its own people and has to
get rid of them by export, has any right to
open his mouth. Go to; you are a Has-Been ! ”
And the answer is so overwhelming in its rude
vigor that the critic usually slinks into the nearest
public-house, and is silent.
* * * *
It is much the same with Maoriland. That
country has been under Labor rule for about 14
years, and has done practically everything that
the Australian Labor party has managed to do,
even in the State where the Australian Labor
party has made most progress. Also it has
done many other things that Labor.-in-politics has
hardly attempted yet on this side. Yet it is
rather regarded as a bright and shining light than
as a fearful example and a very bad joke. It has
gone in for Arbitration laws, Old Age Pension
laws, Workmen’s Compensation law's, preference
to unionists, immigration restriction, State fire,
life, and accident insurance, State banking, a
Public Trust office, State coal mines, and other
things, many of which are as yet only wild social-
istic dreams this end of the Tasman Sea. It has
done these things and commanded the world’s
respect, while Australia has hardly got beyond
proposing to do them, yet already almost every
paper on earth that takes any note of Australian
affairs reckons this country to be a dangerous
lunatic. The mere mention of graduated land-tax,
absentee-tax, and compulsory resumption of large
estates for closer settlement is, to much of the outer
world, a proof that Australia is a crazed com-
munity ; the actual existence of these things in
Maoriland excites scarcely an adverse comment.
The fact that a Labor Government with a
Labor majority may arrive in Australia is
seriously and honestly regarded in many quarters
as the impending climax of all calamity; yet
the fact that such a Government has actually
existed in Maoriland for 14 years causes not one
Jeremiah to turn a hair. The difference is that
between success and failure as the world, not
unreasonably, judges these things. The six
Commonwealth States have, in the last six years
for which statistics are available (1898-1903), sent
away 8582 more persons than they received ; their
net immigration has not only been nil, but less
than nil. Maoriland, though six times more
crowded than the Commonwealth, has gained 29,799
people by excess of immigration, and barren as
Australia is in many regions, its barrenness isn’t
sufficient to account for this difference. In 1903,
the last year for which full statistics are available,
the Commonwealth lost 7249 people by excess of
departures; Maoriland, already six times as
densely peopled, gained 11,275 by excess of arrivals.
Maoriland has flaunted a big surplus every year
for about a dozen years; the federated States,
taken in the aggregate, have shown six deficits in
10 years. Betw'een 1895 and 1903 the number of
hands employed in Maoriland factories increased
by over 92 percent.; those of the Commonwealth
States by only 47 per cent., and in 1903 the
Commonwealth manufactures were actually dimin-
ishing while those of Maoriland were still' on the
up-grade. The world judges by such evidences
as these; therefore the democratic policy which
makes Maoriland admired as an especially bright
jewel of the empire makes Australia the world’s
butt, the sport of the Stinking Fish party, and a
synonym for failure and incapacity.
* * » *
The. difference does not lie in the democratic
features of the Labor party’s policy, but in its
ridiculous decision to “sink the fiscal issue.”
When it came to that resolve it was in the position
of a ship s captain who resolved to sink the navi-
gation issue. It laid down the rule that it was no
part of its business to find work for the people,
except by occasionally asking Ministers to provide
them with temporary employment at unproduc-
tive public jobs, paid for out of ruinous loans. It
concluded that the question of raising up a great,
prosperous, progressive white community by the
only means that could raise such a communitv
—i.e., by creating self-supporting industries
which would furnish men with employment
*—was not its affair. No “new” country
in the world is rising to-day to wealth and
prominence, and attracting multitudes of the best
class of white immigrants, save under Protection,
but even this palpable evidence didn’t drag the
Labor party away from its fiscal-sinking supersti-
tion. Close to Australia’s door there is the example
of a country which shows that an advanced demo-
cratic programme, with high Protection, means
rapidly growing industries, a great influx of
desirable immigrants, work for those immigrants
to do, and national honor and credit; the Austra-
lian Labor party has gone on fiscal-sinking, and
as a result it has linked the democratic programme
in Australia with declining or stationary indus-
tries, an outflow of population, and general dis-
credit. And just because it, as a party, has no
national and patriotic fiscal policy, the Federal
Labor party remains still a comparatively weak
party—not strong enough to take a firm hold of
the reins of government, not strong enough to
carry its graduated land-tax or absentee-tax, or to
provide land for the people by breaking up the
big estates —not strong enough, even, to secure the
honest administration of the law which is the only
hope of keeping Australia a white man’s country.
* * • *
Australia is now more Freetrade than Protec-
tionist. It has a small tariff on some things and
a stupendous and incredible free list. For this
the Labor party is so far responsible that it could
have prevented the evil and didn’t. As a party it
was passive. But not being a Freetrade party—
only a fiscal-sinking party—it hasn’t even the
satisfaction of feeling that it won a victory when
the present tariff came into existence. By its
fiscal-sinkmg policy it gratified and enriched
M Millan, of N.S. W., who repays it with slander
and abuse. It further bloated the bank account
of Cameron, of Tasmania, who turned it out of
°L, ® b J r wny °f repayment. It did the dirty work
of Lruce Smith and Joe Cook, whose command
or language in its denunciation is something too
vast to be described in the space here available.
Above all things, it furnished material for the
members of the Stinking Fish party, whose
slanders upon Australia are a discredit to their
color and their race. Under the pitiable semi-
Freetrade Federal tariff Australian industries are
diminishing or stationary, and the Stinking Fish
press and the Fish news correspondents—an
organisation far too wide to be coped with by the
agencies at the Labor party’s command—explain
to a listening and astonished globe how “revolu-
tionary Labor legislation ”is the cause. For want
of work, people are leaving Australia—it is proba-
bly the only “new” country on earth which
is in that position. They are leaving because
factories and workshops have been closing up
through the operation of the new tariff, and
thereby depriving the workers, who are the
backbone of the Labor organisation, of employ-
ment and bread ; and that closing up makes more
room and profit for the importer, and furnishes
him with money to support the Stinking Fish
propaganda. And the Stinking Fish party repays
this benefit by explaining to the world that
population is fleeing from Australia to escape
“the tyranny of the unions’’and things of that
kind. The deficits, the big loans, the unpro-
ductive works—in the bright lexicon of Stinking
Fish the Labor party is responsible for them all.
The remedy for all this is to make Australia a
country that has no deficits and which doesn’t need
loans, a country with rapidly growing industries,
and with a constant influx of desirable
white immigrants, and with abundance of work
for these immigrants to do, and to make these
results the accompaniment of a vigorous Demo-
cratic policy. But that can only be done
by substituting local industries for imports,
and if the experience of Canada, the United States
and Maoriland goes for anything, the only road to
that consummation is by High Protection. At all
events, the fiscal-sinkers have found no other road.
Of course, there are serious matters to. be con-
sidered before the Federal Labor' party can take
any such step as the one here proposed. It is
cordially advised by M'Millan not to. become a
party of High Protection ; and George Reid,
Joseph Cook, Bruce Smith,, Pumpkin Smith,
Cameron of Tasmania, W ilks, Conroy, the
Argus, the Sydney Telegraph, and other dis-
interested frienas tender it; the same counsel. So
much disinterested advice deserves consideration.
If the party is of opinion that these people and
these papers are reliable well-wishers it will go on
fiscal-sinking. But, if it fancies that these people
are not its friends,, and that they want it to
remain what it is—a comparative failure and a
butt for the Stinking Fish organisation—it will
fiscal-sink no longer.
* *, * *
Even to supply Australia’s present population,
there is something like £30,000,000 worth more
goods to be made annually in the country than are
made at present—goods that are now imported,
but which could be made here just as soon as the
necessary works, could be established, if importa-
tion were resolutely checked by High Protection.
To make these goods herd might be an act of un-
kindness to, such as William M‘Millan, a gentle-
man to whom the Labor party, judging by its
fiscal policy, seems to fancy that it owes a stupen-
dous debt of gratitude ; but it would mean supply-
ing good work and good wages to some 200,000
workers and their families, and that is at
least something. It would mean an in-
flux of population that would do a great
deal to hold this continent against an
Asiatic invasion. It would mean that instead of
being surprised to find six hatters at its doors
Australia would be crying aloud for 600 hatters.
It would mean putting an end for a very long
while to any legitimate unemployed, to relief
works, and to the necessity for the N.S.W. State
Labor party to harass itself about the petty pro-
blem of Bill’s “dirt-money.” It would certainly
mean a very great accession of strength to the
Labor party, for it would be an immense building
up of the unionist class which is that party’s'
strength and substance. It would probably inean
a necessity for the resumption of assisted'‘immi-
gration, and, if it did, that would be a point
in its favor. There is no objection to assisted
immigration when the immigrants are sturdy white
citizens of the right class, and provided there is
abundance of work for them to do. Every 1000
capable adult white immigrants who arrive
here and find profitable work to do, shoulder
(they and their families) some £220,000 mf the
burden of our public debt, and start at once
to pay some £12,000 a year in taxes for them-
selves and their families, and to supply (in-
cluding their families) some 4000 new cus-
tomers to the farmers and tradespeople, and
they mean also 1000 more men to carry a rifle
apiece in the day of trouble. If it cost £lO per
head to import such people, it would be money
well spent—so long as there was well-paid work
for them to do on arrival, and the cost of their
importation was defrayed out of revenue. Also
when the Labor party resolved to be the party
which built up great industries, and which
stood like a rock for honest finance and
national solvency—when there were no more
dying manufactures in the land and de-
jected artisans fleeing out of the land to make
a text for the slanders of Stinking Fish—there
would be a great slump in the stock of Labor’s
enemies. William M‘Millan would not be here
then —he would have fled away to import some-
where else. But Bruce Smith would be a target
for the late lamented cat of scorn, and Joseph
Cook for the mud of contumely, when they tried
to explain, in the face of visible prosperity, how
the country was being ruined by Labor legislation ;
and the Sydney Telegraph would by that time
have run out of damaging statistics, and the
Argus would probably have gone off its head.
They would all be empty guns without ammuni-
tion, and Rozhdestvensky’s fleet wouldn’t be a
circumstance by comparison.
* * * *
But meanwhile this is all a vision of the future.
For the present there is nothing for the people to
do but to resolve at next election to give first pre-
ference to the Labor candidate who is definitely a
High Protectionist; to give its second preference
to the High Protectionist who isn’t a Labor man ;
and to let the Labor Freetrader and the other
Freetrader herd together at the tail-end of the
poll.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Party that Forgets its Principles.
In the no-confidence debate with which the
N.S.W. Assembly commenced its session, the
Labor party managed to forget a considerable
part of its principles. Questions of the size of
Bill’s dirt-money had a tremendous amount of
attention; but a question of the size of keeping
the country from going further into pawn had no
attention at all. Yet the State Labor party has
made some claim to be regarded as the honest
party in finance. It, anyway, nailed hard and
fast in its platform a plank declaring against
further . borrowing, except to carry out
works which would pay interest and pro-
vide a sinking fund. It professed to be
satisfied that N.S'.W. had over-borrowed—a
pretty easy thing to be satisfied about, seeing
that, even in an unusually “good’’ year, the
State’s public works had earned only £1,778,016-
out of the £3,114,760 called for by way of interest
and charges, leaving a balance of £1,330,744 to be
provided out of revenue. This doesn’t look at all
as if the works paid interest, let alone sinking fund.
The Labor party professed to be satisfied (and,
outside Parliament, anyhow, the Labor party was
satisfied) that the yarn that Cohen’s money was
sunk in permanent and reproductive works was a
hollow lie ; and the fact that in the last two years-
the works didn’t earn interest and charges by over
£2,500,000 proved it to be a lie. The Labor party,
therefore, said that this drift must stop. More
than that, the party outside the House resolved
that the party inside the House should fight
to stop it. It put the matter, not in its
general statement of principles, but in its
fighting platform. And yet, when the leader of
the party brought up a no-confidence motion,
against a Government which has rushed the State
into pawn with the old disastrous rush, and built
works without any regard to whether they will,
pay or not, and has provided no sinking fund on
its new works, and has even cut down the old
sinking fund, the Labor party in the House hadn’t,
a word to say about the matter. It got its-
. instructions, and coolly and calmly ignored them.
Any interference with the sacred rights of J.
Smith in connection with his lease of a western
sand-patch was regarded as a subject for severe:
language ; and the fact that Smithson instead of
Bkownson was appointed boss of a public school,
was viewed as a matter which fully justified the
Deputy-Governor in shedding all the confidence lie
ever had in J. Carruthers ; but the hustling of the
country a further £2,000,000 into debt during the
year was a small matter not worth mentioning. On
Carruthers’ own showing he had borrowed
£1,833,700 in 11 months, which is at the rate of
£2,000,400 a year—a sum much greater than was
spent for many years previous to the Owe’See
financial drunk. The Labor party made no in-
quiry as to-whether this money was being put into -
undertakings that would return interest and:
sinking fund qr not; it knows that the average:
undertaking paid for out of borrowed money
hitherto has only paid about half the interest, let-
alone sinking fund, and there was no evidence-
whatever that the new undertakings were any.
better than the average of the old ones. But,
good or bad, leader McGowen didn’t call upon the -
Premier for any explanation with regard to them—
he treated the drift into another two millions of .
debt as a matter of course, and not a subject for
grievance even if Carruthers had no satisfactory
explanation handy. And yet McGowen was-
hard-up for bricks to throw at Carruthers. If .
he had contented himself with aiming one brick—
the Government’s vile treatment of the Arbitra-
tion Act —silence with regard to the finances would
have been understandable; but he made his
motion general, and was therefore expected to
throw all the bricks he knew of; and he didn’t.
even mention the financial brick, except to remark
that, if Carruthers got a surplus, it would be :
through not keeping certain works going. It
therefore looks as though the N.S.W. Labor Party
doesn’t remember that the first thing for the :
honest party to see to is, not that works are done,.
but that the money is honestly available to pay
for them when they are done. And it also looks ■
as though it doesn’t remember that its “objective”
is “the encouragement of Australian national i
sentiment; ” anyway, it is hard to see how it -
proposes to encourage Australian national senti-
ment by giving Cohen a further mortgage over the
country. Further, as a mere matter of party tac-
tics, the financial brick was a good and handy one
to aim. For Carruthers’ party includes at j leastt
half-a-dozen men who pledged themselves in the;
most definite manner possible to oppose fur-
ther borrowing, and Carruthers has borrowed!
£2,000,000, and therefore made it impossible fort
them to support him any further and still keep-
their pledges, provided their support is challenged
“on that ground. That half-dozen or more of votes
would have about given McGowen a majority;
but he tnrew v away the chance of getting them at
the same time, as he threw away the chance of
showing that a fighting platform is a platform to
be fought for, and not simply a substance to
stand upon and make speeches about at election
time.
♦
Bent’s Boom Finance.
Several years ago, a stout young man named
Bent grew cabbages on several acres of land at
Moorabin (Vic.), and obtained his living by keep-
ing his expenditure within the limits of his
revenue. Later on, Bent thought that money
could be made more quickly by buying and selling
blocks of land, but after making large profits by
this process, he awoke one day to find that his
affluence had disappeared like gas, and he had to
move from his big mansion to a smaller house.
Bent returned to work again, and in another
five years contrived to he comfortably off
once more. Then it came to pass that he was put
in charge of a larger cabbage garden. With
Bent’s experience, it might have been supposed
that he would avoid the errors which had led to
his undoing in his middle age, but this was not
the case. Instead of growing the cabbages, and
living within the margin of profit that the garden
returned, Bent found a second time that more
money could be made by booming. Accordingly,
he fenced off a strip at the end of the cabbage
garden and advertised it for sale. The proceeds
amounted to something handsome, and Bent
waved his hat and cheered vociferously. The
people spent the money thus liberally handed out
to them, and waved their hats, and cheered also.
ThomAs Bent straightway fenced off another strip >
and sold it. This deal was even more successful
than the last, and every year he continued selling
pieces of the cabbage garden until the time came
to sell the last piece, when he had himself to move
into the house of a benevolent neighbor because;
there was no other place for him. Then he told:
the people who employed him that there was no >
more money, and when they suggested that he:
might with advantage be lynched, he was insulted,
and tendered his resignation. This is a parable,.
but a correct one. Even in his most scintillating
moments of land boom Bent’s finance was not
more short-sighted than it is to-day. His most
glorious method of raising revenue is still the-
old method of selling off the assets. Already he;
has done considerable things in this respect, but;
now he is going a step further, and proposes to
dispose of ail the country commons and the edu-
cational endowment. The commons, certainly,,
unless they are better managed, might almost
as well be disposed of. The stock grazed,
upon them very often belongs to rich pas-
toralists well able to pay for agistment, and,,
where action has been taken against these illegal
occupiers, the dummying of stock has been ram-
pant. But the commons should certainly not be
sold, at any rate by auction. As State property,.
they should be leased, but' if Parliament is deter-
mined to alienate them, there is no valid reason
why they should not be added to the areas
at the disposal of the Closer Settlement


Board Regarding the proposed sale of
vnT area of metropolitan land forming
the* educational endowment, such an aet
would be nothing short of criminal. Years a o,
Parliament, in a lucid interval, decided to provide
for the maintenance of the educational system by
retaining two large areas, one between the town
of Port Melbourne and the River Yarra, and the
other between West Melbourne and F ootscray. No
use has hitherto been made of this land, partly
because the population has not expanded
as it should, partly because manufacturing
industries have not developed as they should,
and partly because influential land boomers
didn’t want the property developed, lest
it should compete with the properties they
themselves were putting on the market. 1 ie
result is that the land is of little immediate
value ; but, when Melbourne’s population doubles
it should be worth from £5,000,000 to £10,000,000.
It is close to the city ; its nearest point is not a
i mile and a quarter from the General Post Office,
rand its furthest point not three miles distant. It
is dry land, and with an insignificantexpenditureon
improvements and communication, might Vie turned
i into two new suburbs, all State-owned. At the
present time, it yields no interest, and as it will
i he sold on the basis of its capitalised earnings, i.
Bent will probably raise from this magnificent
asset fust enough to pay the expenses of the
next Vampire Day. Then he will have the
satisfaction of seeing some syndicate cut up the
; land, make streets, build houses, and with a,
i motor or tram service to the city, reap a revenue
which would probably pay the whole annual cost
of the Victorian Education Department, and a
> little over. Like many other statesmen, Thomas
Bent is bitten with the microbe of selling Ins
; assets and making merry with the proceeds, just
: as the shearer sells his horse at cat’s-meat price at
: the tail-end of his great drunk, and has one more
■ “ horror ” with the money.
♦
(Giving the Children’s Bread to the Animal
Disrespectfully Mentioned in Scripture.
Probably the saddest contribution of all to the
■discussion about Australia’s want of population
\was a recent column-long letter to S.M. Herald
by Dr. Arthur, M.L.A. That gentleman pro-
poses a wholesale importation of immigrants,
.whose passages are to be paid with loan money.
To use his own words, he is of opinion that “ a
ilarge proportion of the loan expenditure of the
future should be devoted to this scheme of State-
raided immigration.’’ This is indeed a painful
.case of the animal which Hazael of Syria said
that he wasn’t (at least he asked indignantly if he
was) returning to the offensive substance that
ought not to be left lying about. Dr. Arthur
lent his countenance at last State election to the
anti-borrowing party, and now he has so com-
pleteiy forgotten all about it that he takes
future loan expenditure as a matter of course,
and he already begins to portion out the
proceeds of the I DU. When the money
has been‘borrowed, Dr. Arthur wants to rake
Great Britain, Ireland, Finland, Scandinavia,
Germany and Switzerland for agriculturists, bring
them out to N.S.W., give them land free, release
them from all land-tax for three or five years, and
possibly—though he only hints at this lend them
money in addition. The yearning to import
things sticks out here in a regrettable fashion.
About five years out of every ten N.S.W. sends
away more people than it receives, and a good part
of the loss arises because the State doesn’t supply
land for its own growing country population. It
has no graduated land-tax to break up big estates,
■ and no effective system of resumption for closer
settlement. Its good coastal country is blocked
iby big uncultivated holdings, and what isn t
'blocked is mostly inaccessible for want of roads.
When the State offers to sell at £1 or more per
acre —not to give away—a decent bit of accessible
land, without paying the prospective farmer’s
passage to the spot, and without any exemption
from land-tax, it gets applicants by the hundred.
Onlv a few days ago a N.S.W. citizen complained
in the Sydney papers that he had spent £ldo
attending at places where there were scraps ol
respectable soil available, and each time the
names of the multitude of applicants were put m
a hat—and he had never the luck to be the man
whose name emerged from that receptacle. He
didn’t get enough land to bury a dog m, and the
hat became to him a pot of doom. Ihe only
place where the N.S.W. settler has any reasonable
certainty of getting a patch of Government land
nowadays, even when he pays a reasonable price
for it, is out on the fringe of Sheol—or further out,
in Sheol itself. If N.S.W. would set to work in
dead earnest with a heavy graduated land-tax and
a vigorous resumption policy —paying for the
resumed land out of the proceeds of.the graduated
lanu-tax —to make available all the reasonably
good coastal lands, and would open up Government
lands with roads and railways paid for out ot
revenue, in addition to compelling the opening up
•of private estates, and thus make room for
its own people who are ready to pay for the soil,
and who ask for neither pauper passage-tickets
nor tax exemptions, it is quite possible that it would
get new settlers by thousands and thousands. Ihe
•experiment has never been tried, and no one knows
how the settlers might pour in. But Dr. Arthur,
M.L.A., makes no suggestion about giving our
own people a show firsthand giving the second
show to the person who might, if only he knew he
could get land, be willing to come here at his own
expense and pay his way. The doctor’s great in-
spiration is to borrow a devil of a lot of money
wherewith to import foreign deadbeats; then to
sacrifice the much-needed land revenue by giving
away the land; to sacrifice much-needed tax-
revenue by exempting the foreign deadbeat from
the imposts that the native Australian has to pay ,
and finally, if it can be done, he hints at lending
the foreign deadbeat actual cash to start with. As
for giving away land to the Cornstalk citizen who
is now driven out in search of elbow-roorn else-
where, or even supplying him with good land at a
reasonable price, that isn’t so much as hinted at.
The craze for importing something swallows up all
other considerations. Yet Dr. Arthur represents
quite a large class. At a time when the local in-
habitant is still praying for access to a decent
scrap of soil the State is full of loud people who
want to know, in a voice like that of the itinerant
bottle-person, why the State doesn’t give land
away to all comers, after the fashion of Canada.
The One Blind Tourist and the Six Hatters.
Last Monday Thomas Bent in Melbourne, and
the Herald in Sydney, both broke out on the
subject of the necessity for attracting immigrants,
and both set to work to clear themselves and their
own policy of all responsibility in the matter by
babbling about small side issues. There was not
one word in the Herald’s eloquent leading article
about the fact that immigrant workers in iron,
steel, brass, copper, silk, cotton, woollen, lmen,
and many other things, won’t come to N.S.W.
because there is no work for them at their own
trades, practically all the goods they make being
-imported. And Bent said not a word about
the fact that his own State, with its miserably low
Protection, was, and long had been, in much the
same position. Also, neither said anything about
the fact that agriculturists are clearing out instead
of coming in, because the best lands are inaccess-
ible, or locked up by private monopolists against
settlement. Instead, the S.M. Herald did this
little wail:—
We will persist in giving wide publicity to unsavory
advertisements of our exclusiveness, as, for_example, our
unseemly treatrfient of the blind tourist, when we really
at heart are a hospitable people. We desire the company
tof our friends, but we keep an ugly-looking bulldog
chained up near the gate, and Chen express surprise that
our visitors are so rare.
And Bent did this large roar: —
People talked about inducing population to come
here. What was the use of offering inducements when
such things as the six hatters business was possible/
General Booth, instead of having gone to Mr. Reid with
his immigration scheme, should have come to him (Bent).
He hoped to learn how far the General would help the Vic-
torian Government to settle people on the land.
In the red-herring doctrine of Bent in Victoria
and Reid and the Herald in N.S.W., the Six
Hatters and the one blind tourist (all seven of
whom were admitted) is a full and complete ex-
planation of everything. And, in reply, I HR
Bulletin presents these figures from Coghlans
“Australia and Maoriland, 1903-4’ (page lo 4),
and asks an explanation :
Victoria. N.S.W. Hatters
Surplus of De- Surplus of De- and Blind
partures over partures over Tourists Shut
Arrivals. Arrivals. Out.
1893 12,484 1560 None
1894 12,698 None
1895 14,410 840 None
1896 22,134 3967 None
1897 13,754 173 None
1898 11,127 None
1899 8,020 None
1900 7,828 1518 None
1901 1,428 6913 None
Immigration- Restriction Law Came Into lorce.
1902 13,716 None
1903 16,570 - None
Bent and Ruin and the S.M. Herald and
Sydney Telegraph and Melbourne Argus hold
that the disease, trouble, anguish and dry-rot
all lie in the third column. All the thousands
•of people who voluntarily went out of the two debt-
laden States, with their land-monopoly, their huge
imports, and their few native industries, don t
matter; and the entire damage lies in the fact
that, after ten years of this disastrous exit, seven
people had some questions put to then! as they
came ashore. The Roman emperor who was
worried only about the drooping aspect of his
favorite chooky-hen when the Goths were besieg-
ing his capital was a wise naan by comparison
with Bent and the S.M. Herald..
Minister Swinburne has Hopes.
Minister Swinburne, of Victoria, probably the
most creditable member of the Government that
isn’t Straight, intends to make another effort
next session to urge his Water Bill through Par-
liament. The story of the causes which led up to
this Bill, if any wealthy Australian Tory of the
Stinking Fish party told it in London, would
hardly be believed ; and when it was believed
the probabilities are that London would refuse to
look at any more Victorian loans until the House
of 34 Rich Landlords was abolished. It would
reckon that its money wasn’t safe while that
extraordinary institution was above ground. Vic-
toria has spent several millions of loan money on
irrigation works, and by this means the value of
land in many districts has been increased four
and five fold. The landowners approved most
cordially of the expenditure and the increased
land values, and when the works were handed
over to local Trusts they cheerfully undertook to
keep them in order, and pay interest and a small
sinking fund on their cost. Then they proceeded
almost unanimously to swindle the State by a
process of falsifying the accounts which, if there
were the same law for the dishonest landowner as
for the dishonest clerk, would have landed many
of them in gaol. By carefully putting down in the
rate books as worth, say, £5 an acre land which
was easily saleable at about £25, and by levying
the rate on the false valuation, the swindlers of
the Trusts started out to show that they couldn t
raise enough to pay their liabilities. They de-
faulted wholesale, like any other bankrupts, on
their interest payments and their sinking fund
payments, and in course of time they persuaded
the State to write off the great bulk of the arrears.
Also they persuaded the State to write off a
huge proportion of the original cost of the works,
and then promised solemnly, on their honor
as spielers and three-card men, to pay up
re<mlarlv the interest and sinking fund on the
small liability left to them. Of course, they
promptly broke this promise also ; the promises of
the Victorian landowner are, on the whole, a shade
worse than the oath and covenant of the pony-
racing shark. Last of all, the State made the un-
pleasant discovery that even maintenance wasn t
being paid for. The works which represent
millions of Victoria's hard-borrowed money, and
which have been bestowed on its land-owning
class almost as a gift, are going to pieces—are be-
coming leaky, rotten, silted-up, and superannu-
ated. The irrigation system, in fact, is dying out
again The landowners, of course, do not intend
that it shall really die out, for the loss to them
would be too vast; but they evidently reckon that,
when things come to the crisis, the State will
rather pay for repairs than see its great and costly
scheme collapse, and already the demand that
the State shall pay for repairs is being heard.
The Financial Reform party—the wealthy land-
owners and defaulters of Kyabram and elsewhere—
at times almost live on the Treasurers doorstep
demanding that the working classes shad be taxed
to supply them with free water. Minister Swin-
burne finally revolted at this imposition, and
drafted a Bill providing .that the State was to
resume control of its own water-works—the works
it had paid for - and keep them m repair, and
charge the people who use the water sufficient to
cover the expense. The Assembly passed the
Bill but the Upper House was staggered at the
idea of the class which it represents, and to which
its members belong, being asked to even party
■pay its way, and the Rich Landlords threw the
measure out' with contumely and mud. SWlN-
burne is going to try next session, xiis
chance is probably not worth much, but at least
there is nothing like perseverance.
Something Thai Might Have Been Better.
Butler, Jenkins’ mournful successor in S. Aus-
tralia has resolved to hang on to office till the
House meets, in a month’s time, and thereafter as
long' as it will let him. He has practically no
following, and his Attorney-General was beaten
at tlio elections ; but he knows that nobody else
has an absolute majority either, and so he stays in
the hope that he may pull through ]ust as well as
the other people who haven’t a majority. Brice s
nartv is largest ; but even Price stands at the
head of a partv which can only hold office by the
grace of some other party which he was recently
fighting and which he must be prepared to fight
again presently. There is, of course, better reason
why Price with his party of 15 should be Premier
than Butler with his party of three. In the
average Parliamentary Election, witli half-a-dozen
men running for one seat, it generally happens
that nobody gets an absolute majority ; but even
Butler would probably denounce the colossal
impudence of the man who got less votes than any-
body else and still insisted that he was the proper
person to have the seat. And yet, though Price
has so much better right to be Premier than
Butler has, the friends of the Labor Party can t
view either wliat has happened or what is likely
to happen with much satisfaction. The party
never had such a chance before, and if it gets so
good a chance again certainly isn’t likely to get a
better one. For consider, not so much what they
had to do as what their opponents had to do.
Those opponents had to go to the Assembly
electors and tell them that five-sevenths of them
weren’t fit to have a vote for the Leg. Council, and
they had to ask the five-sevenths to roll up at the
poli and declare their own unfitness in the usual
manner. It was about the hardest row that a
political party had ever set itself to hoe ; and it
should have made things dead easy for the other
side—the side that asked the five-sevenths to roll
up and say that they were fit to vote for the
Council. Yet the Laborites couldn’t score a win
—anyway, couldn t score a majority, which isn t at
all cheerful under the circumstances. And the
outlook isn’t cheerful, either. Without a majority
of its own the party will have to go slow and com-
promise, as the State party has done m Wes-
tralia, and do infinite damage to its good repute
and its ideals in the process; or else go slow
fuse to compromise, as the Federal Labor party did,
in which case it will soon have to go out. And the
Labor party doesn’t want to go out—it wants to
stay in, where it can do things, and let its enemies
stay out. But the thing that sticks out farthest
of all for the moment is the failure of the party to
get a majority notwithstanding that it had the
very best case with which a party could possibly
go to the electors, notwithstanding that the public
was heartily sick of the old Jenkins Butler
crowd, and had so little confidence in Darling
that it threw him out, and notwithstanding that
there was hardly any organisation on the other
side, and that it had itself the help of the most
widely-circulated daily paper in the State, it it
couldn't win by a handsome majority in these cir-
cumstances, how long will it be before it can
expect to win ? Or does its position point to the
fact that its basis is even yet too narrow, and
that there is no real, practical hope until it
takes in all the Liberals who are now drifting
about more or less unattached. And the outlook
for the Federal party is even less satisfactory than
it was for t{ie State .flirty. The State party
didn’t have to “sink ,the fiscal lsspe, there bfemg
no fiscal issue in State politics to either sink, bury
or otherwise dispose of ; and so it got support
which the fiscal-sinker can t reasonably expect to
get, there being such a vast number of people who
have got sick pf pretending that the thing
in Australian national politics is a corpse.
Some Practical Socialism.
State Premier Carruthers has announced him-
self as convinced, after reading CoGHLAN S reports
from London, that “the sooner *.S.W. can
finance its own loans within the State the better
it will be.” In saying this, Joseph is certainly
much more accurate than usual. Local borrowing
is far preferable to foreign borrowing in every
way, and N.S.W. has already done a great deal ot
it: in fact, it has already done enough to make it
seem more than probable that the State corn
already rel' wholly on the local market—it it only
cared to try. But while going thusfar, it seems a
pity that Joseph didn’t exercise his brilliant
imagination a little further, and consider the
advisability of doing without loans altogether.
Foreign borrowing is utterly and irredeemably
bad, and local borrowing, while not so bad, is a
wildly ridiculous thing when followed as a
general practice. If a country builds its
own public works out of taxation,, it simply
builds them out of its own money and is done with
it. If the same country builds its public works
out of internal loans, it also builds them out of its
own money, but it does so by a crazy process of
circumlocution. It doesn’t pay itself the money
to build the works, but it borrows the money
from itself, and gives itself its own 10 U whereby
it promises solemnly to tax itself to pay itself the
interest, and also to tax itself sufficiently some day
to repay itself the principal, lben it builds the
works out of its own money which it has lent to
itself. The country that taxes itself to pay tor a
£2,000,000 railway to the North Coast, or else-
where, has simply got a railway to the good when
the work is finished. The country that borrows
£2,000,000 internally for the same work has,
when the work is finished, a railway wort 1
£2,000,000 and £2,000,000 worth of saleable securi-
ties—its own lON payable by itself to itselt
—floating about the share market, and against
these it owes £2,000,000. The community as a
whole, and viewed as if it were a single individual,
isn’t a bit further forward than if it had paid for
the whole work directly out of taxation and the
community, viewed as a collection of human
units, is a great deal further behind. It the
£2 000,000 worth of railway is built out of taxation
the valuable asset thus created is common pro-
perty ; the poorest producer of the Labor party
owns as large a share of it as the most affluent
middleman at Darling Point. But when it is
built out of loans the handful of rich men who
advanced the money own it all till the 1 O U is
redeemed, and in N.B.W. the IO U never is
redeemed. If N.B.W. had never borrowed, but
had constructed its public works out of revenue,
some £80,000,000 worth of works would now be
common property —representing about £ol P el
head As it is they are nominally common pro-
perty but are really the property of a compara-
tively small crowd of capitalists. Every time the
Labor party gives its assent to a new loan, instead
of demanding that public works be paid tor-
out of revenue, it is throwing dirt on the most
sacred principle of Socialism; it is voting for an
extension of the power of Capitalism; and it is
helping the small oligarchy of the Rich to extern
tlieir power over the vast multitude of the Poor.
It is a sorrowful thing to see Socialism thus be-
trayed by its own advocates, just because the
betrayal saves a little present effort, and a little
present thought, and a little immediate responsi-
bility The central idea of Socialism is equal
opportunity for all, and there can be no equal
opportunity where 1000 of/Are children of the
poor are born owing a debt of £55 each, and
one child of the rich is born to inherit
£55,000 worth of their I OU s, and to collect
from them all their lives some £2OOO a year
in interest, and to invest the tribute carefully
so that the burden will go on permanently in-
creasing. The first-the very first—step towards
practical Socialism is to give every person an equal
share-equal in reality as well name--in the
State assets, and to put an end to the accursed
system whereby the child of the Many, born in
Red fern dr Paddington, is pawned before its
birth to the child of the Few, born at Darling
Point or Toorak, or in the west end of London.
No min who is not opposed to the borrowing
durse, root and branch, is worth a straw as a
Socialist, no matter how loudly he may cry out m
vague and whirling eloquence for the recon-
struction of society upon a new basis. Ihe test
of the Sincere believer lies in his willingness to
take up the burdens and responsibilities of his
faith, as well as to “ holler ” for it.
— — : —-
An Anomalous Position.
This paragraph, from a Sydney daily, seems to
vaguely remind The Bulletin of something it
has heard before : ,
An unemployed demonstration, organised by the
Sydney Labor Council, was held yesterday at the Queens
Statue. Spe ches were delivered by eaden, in
eluding Mr. Holman, M.I,A„ and a was eax..-
calling on the Government to find work for <OOO men.
Now Holman, M.L.A., is, if not a Freetrader by
conviction, at least a man who has done a good
deal in the way of promoting the arrival of 1 tee-
trade on the ground that the fiscal issue is a tin
of no importance. In view of his fiscal attitude,
therefore, it seems a fair thing to mention to him
that any share he had in the resolution quoted
above amounts to amazing assurance. Ihe 1' ree-
trade doctrine is that the city artisan, if he can t
hold his own on equal terms against cheap foreign
competition, should be unemployed. Australia,
thanks largely to the Freetrade politicians
and the Freetrade voters of Sydney, has got
Freetrade in an immense number of industries,
and it seems that 7000 men in Sydney have tailed
to hold their own under these conditions I lie
Freetrader says the conditions are all right m
fact, that they should be made worse. Therefore,
the lack of employment, by the same logic, is all
right. Not one Freetrade artisan in all Australia
is out of work, save through the inability of the
Australian workman to maintain Ins ground under
the present tariff against his cheap outside com-
petitor. The market for his work is here, as is
evidenced by the £37,000,000 worth of goods which
foreigners poured into Australia last, year , but
while these come in the local man can t get a job
at supplying the market. In Sydney a good pro-
portion of him votes for keeping the ports open
and letting these £37,000,000 worth of foreign
goods in, and regards the policy of open pmtsj as
one of the world’s Great Truths. It is difficult,
therefore, to see what reason he has to object to
the consequences of his Great Truth, the -
tectionist artisan has a legitimate ground o
complaint, and deserves all possible help and
sympathy, but it is hard to understand where the
Freetrade one has any right to object. To denounce
the protected industry, which supports say, 1000
men, because it is “ artificial,’ and then to demand
that the State shall find artificial employment for
7000 men is anomalous. And the Freetrade poli-
tician who holds that it is right to shut OP indus-
tries, or to prevent industries starting, unless thej
can compete on even terms against the cheap
foreigner, and then demands that the general tax-
payer shall support the men thus thrown out, or
kept out, of employment, is a fair object to throw
mud at. He advances his doctrine of free imports
as something that will make the country rich, and
if! instead "t results in there being 7000 men un-
employed in and around Sydney, while N-b.W .
alone is giving nearly £12,000,000 worth of work
per annum to the foreigner, he ougbteitherto
explain these 7000 men away, or else feed them
himself.
Mr E 11. Brougham, of Adelaide, for four years
in tiie China Customs, to an interviewer
The Japanese openly say they are going
tralia They do not like the people of this count 13
because of the Immigration Restriction Act. The} argue
that they are as good as Europeans—in some cases bettei
—and they say they have as much right to put immi-
grants into Australia as you have to go to Japan, especi-
ally as this continent is not properly populated.
And he “ wonders why the Australians are almost
to a man pro-Japanese.” It is natural to wonder
why any Australians are pro-Jap; but of couise
the 7 “almost to a man” is a mistake. In Aus-
tralia the cheap-labor advocates, the foreign-
traders, and other Tories are for the Yellow Man.
They control most of the newspapeis, which,
therefore, magnify the importance of the. ant.-
Australian crowd. As to the fact that the Jap
argues that he has as much right to come to Aus-
tralia as the Australian has to go to Japan, that is
quite correct. And, as a matter of fact, the Jap
If Cole Were King?
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
If I were King- of Australia, with absolute power and
thimrs all round stood just as they do now, I think that I
would invite a million Chinese, a million Javanese, a
million Hindus, and some other colored people, and all
the white men who choose to come inbo tro P' cal o^ f
of Australia, to grow cotton, rice, sugar, coffee,
and all other kinds of tropical produce M.Reason f l
invitino- many colored races, instead of a chosen one,
would be to prevent an objectionable clannish or national
feeling growing up, and becoming too stiong tor the
public welfare.— Bookseller E. W. Cole.
If you were King ot a mongrel horde-nine mil-
lion piebald souls—
And I were your subject, gracious Lord, I d look
for the blackened Coles.
I’d look for a Black Man’s Book Arcade, and
expect to find you there—
Aye, driving a roaring Tamil trade, with the cow-
grease in your hair !
I’d look for a turbaned, trudging Cole, with his
books upon his back ;
And I’d point with a long, derisive pole at the
Man Who Made Things Black.
But perhaps you’d squat in a small bazaar in a
dirty, stinking street,
In the midst of a landscape black as tar, with
cheap black food to eat. _
And your customers would talk to you in the
pleasing Hindu tongue ;
P’raps, now and then, you’d a white man see by a
coal-black hangman hung.
Then lo ! whep Hie white man’s strangled soul tp
the void went slowly back,
His hand would point tp the great King Cole Whp
Made Australia Black !
He would dangle there, with his pointing hand,
and your Parsee friends would stare—
Ho ! the gallows would bloom in your coal-black
land— strange fruit would those banyans bear !
But your Javanese and your Japs would fight, and
a glorious row tbere’d be—
You’d wake one day, 0 King, and light on a
Monkey Dynasty
They’d drag you down from your Hindu throne,
and they’d give King Cole the sack—
When the brown map fell on the Bookman white
Who Made Australia Black !
yic.
GRANT HERVEY.


1 OF 2
Events is Sure—Death or Old Age.
_ 4. 5 .. Per .® en *’ Delje . n . ture Bond (with 5 per cent, interest guaranteed for 20 yean) in the
Equitable will make provision against both. V ' tllo
It will protect your family, if you die—or yourself, if you live.
NOW is the time to make such provision—
To-Morrow may be too late.
For further information, fill in and post
this coupon to
The Secretary,
Equitable Life Assurance Society,
Equitable Building;, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of an Equitable
6 per cent. Debenture Bond.
I was born
Name
Address ...
If you SMOKE for PLEASURE,
TRY
GALLAHER’S
Genuine
Imported
TOBACCOS and
CIGARETTES
Ask your local store, or send Six Stamps to M. Rutty & Co.,
Sydney, for Sample, Post Pree.
has so many subterranean ways—not of shutting
the white man out of Japan, but of making it im-
possible for him to live in Japan, which is the
same thing m the end, that the brown man is even
now getting far better treatment in Australia, and
in the white man’s countries generally, than he
gives. Let his policy be judged by results
j White men
Japanese Japanese of all nations
hving in living in
•ton* "tT'SK* Australia. Japan.
1895 .. 41,590 .. 4(104
1898 .. 68,785 .. _ *' 5305
1900 .. 123,971 .. - - 5793
1901 .. .. 3554 _
1903 .. 153,785 .. _ .. 6286
It would pay Australia to send a commission to
Japan to study the brown person’s anti-alien laws,
and the dodges with which the brown person sup-
plements his laws. When one Australian State
(Queensland) contains one-third as many Japs as
there are white men of all races in Japan the
brown person’s methods should be worth study-
ing. They certainly seem very effective.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Tom Moore.”
Theatre Royal “ Yeoman of the Guard.”
Criterion “ King- Dodo.”
Palace “ East Lynne."
Tivoli Kickards’ Co.
Town Hali Westminster Glee Party.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Rose of the Riviera."
Her Majesty’s “The Fires of St. John.”
Theatre Royal “Sporting Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Hugo Heermann.
On Saturday night, at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, writer viewed “Tom Moore” and his
friend, Andrew Mack, through a hollow tooth into
which a cold wind had blown seven devils; and,
so far as he was concerned, Moore and Mack had
to fight the seven through four rounds. The result
reflected considerable credit on Moore and Mack.
I here were odd times when at least six of the
devils were on the floor taking their ten seconds,
?; n d, generally speaking, two of them were down.
But never the lot. On Mack-Moore’s ballad repu-
tation, writer had hopes of laying the entire bag
of devils when it came to the time for Thomas
s ! kut there was at least one that hung out
to the end—a yellow devil, no doubt, and from
Derry maybe, who owned up that Mack had
his points, but that he marred his ballads by
trying to get too much light and shade into
them. In the play, when Tom finds things
going against him, he lifts his alto-falsetto in
a song of ould Ireland, and the result is always
just as Tom wants it to be. If the lordly villain
is on the point of robbing Thomas of his colleen,
Thomas, as a last resort, sings, and the colleen
comes straight back into the path of Thomas,
which, of course, is the path also of virtue. When
Mrs. Malone demands the rint in a brogue that
has a blackthorn at the end of it, and gives Tom
one hour in which to pay or quit, and Tom hasn’t
a bean to pay with and hasn’t a quit about him,
he sings “Love’s Young Dream,” and melts the
raging blackthorn into utter oblivion of the rint.
Thomas s victories in the balladrama are too
complete. Still, it’s a handy, unconventional way
of overcoming the difficulties which beset the hero’s
path; a 2: rich more delightful way, too, than
\i somebody brought a tearful lady with a Past
and explained to the colleen that the Past was the
lordly villain’s doing ; also it’s a much more plea-
sant way of dodging the rint than via a window,
a ladder, and a neighbor’s roof,
* * * *
Truth may be stranger than fiction, but
for stage purposes, “ Tom Moore’s ” dramatist
puts his money on fiction. Beyond that he was a
poet and singer and wit, and met various people,
few things happen to A. Mack as they
happened to T. Moore. It is good melodrama
undoubtedly; but just how far it is desirable to
give absurdly distorted views of history is another
matter—the tooth previously referred to urged
a a j a very serious view ought to be taken of it.
Andrew Mack makes the situation more serious
than it might be by his natural representation of
the character. You never suspect that it isn’t
1. Moore, but only A. Mack, in front of you,
so easy and spontaneous is he. Even the
musical interruptions don’t apparently inter-
rupt. But, after Mack, the rest count for
not very much. Bessie Dyke, the colleen round
whom the love-story moves, is played with
moderate success by Miss Lovett. Mrs. Malone,
aforementioned, is a comparatively small part
made conspicuous by Miss Berlein. ' And amongst
the men, a magnificent Prince Regent remains the
most fixed memory.
** * *
‘‘Pygmalion and Galatea,” staged at
■Sydney Royal for a few nights last week,
is a piece of which the public is not yet
tired. Miss Maud Jeffries was an excellent
Galatea, and Mr. Plimmer a fine, manly Pygma-
lion. If only he would school himself out of that
melodramatic stride—though it is useful when
Marcus Enormous is throwing his mightv legs
through ancient Rome. A feature of the revival
was the excefient broad comedy acting of Mrs. G.
B. W. Lewis and Mr. Carey as the art patrons of
Athens.
** * *
Revival of “Monsieur Beaucaire,” at
Sydney Royal, on Saturday, with Mr. J. B. N.
Osborne in the name part, attracted a huge audi-
ence. Mr. Osborne is a stage-smitten youth of
some ‘ society ” standing, who has made himself
notable, to a certain extent, by marrying Miss
Maud Jeffries, the star of the company in which
he has been playing minor parts with more or less
justification. When he was given the responsi-
bilifcy of acting such a difficult character as
Beaucaire—a part, the stagey artificiality of which
is such that the slightest over-emphasis or hint of
bathos must make it ridiculous—it was clearly not
that he had of a sudden blossomed into a star
actor, but with the idea of exploiting the public
interest in a romantic marriage. And, considered
in that light, the experiment was a notable suc-
cess. On the first night the theatre was crowded
to the doors, and the following performances were
well attended.. It is equally certain that if Mr.
E. W. O’Sullivan were billed as Hamlet there
would be just as lucrative results for a few nights,
and just at present the appearance of Mr. William
Nicholas Willis as Joseph of Canaan, or Little
Eva, or almost anything, would be a profitable
spec. But, nevertheless, experiments of that sort
are not fair to the public, nor to the theatrical pro-
fession, leaving out of account Dramatic Art
(D. Art’s feelings have of late been so outraged by
musical comedy as to be quite insensible to affront
now); and certainly they are not wise policy
for a great theatrical manager, whose busi-
ness, laboriously worked up by the exercise of
judgment and skill, would be at the mercy of
any smart advertising canvasser once a system of
“notoriety presentations” became general.
Mr. Osborne, as Beaucaire, played with
consummate self-confidence, and that is really all
that can be said in his favor. Neither voice
nor figure mark him as Nature’s choice of an
actor, and he has not had the stage experi-
ence to teach him even to walk naturally on
the boards. On Saturday the elaborate French
accent on his English was dropped as
frequently as he forgot it, which was often,
and his odd bits of French were not always exactly
Parisian. But these were the natural and inevi-
table marks of what was essentially an ‘ ‘ amateur ”
performance. Mr. Osborne is not to be blamed,
rather the policy which obtrudes an amateur star
into the midst of a professional season. One
effect of Mr. Osborne’s place in the cast was to
throw up in high relief the other actors. Mr.
Harry Plimmer is always a clever actor, i.nd, as
Major Molyneux, he never showed to better advan-
tage ; and Mr. Wontner, as the Duke of Winterset,
cut likewise a fine figure. Miss Maud Jeffries is
familiar to the Sydney public in the role of Lady
Mary Carlyle; her acting on Saturday had an
unusual amount of sprightliness to add to its
charm.
** * *
To-night and to-morrow night (which
closes the season) Sydney Royal will resound to
the mellifluous romancings of Claude Melnotte,
who was the ancestor of Daniel O’Connor, of
N.S. W. Miss Maud Jeffries will carry the dainty
ear into which those sonorous nothings will be
poured; but whether Mr. Maud will be the
Claude of the play or not, is a secret which was not
disclosed when this issue went to press. A short
and most welcome Gilbert and Sullivan season
follows.
* * *
Mr. Oliver Bainbridge, who needs his
hair cut, gave his lecture on the “Black Jews”
last week. The subject is too painful to be
pursued further.
#* * *
“Yes, Barbara, you may speak privately.
This room is free from intrusion, ” says Archibald
Carlyle in “East Lynne,” revived at Sydney
Palace on Saturday night. And the damp .drama
proceeds along lines quite up to that, which
is Mrs. Henry Woods’ literary level. Curious
circumstance that every time The Bulletin
has not shirked seeing “East Lynne,” it has sat
among the same kind of exasperating damsel—the
kind that sucks peppermint-drops and violently
rustles its paper bag. That immortal scene be-
tween the runaway wife, Lady Isabel, and her
uncle, Lord Mount Severn, was almost inaudible
because the circle’s paper-bag was rustling like the
G.P.O. on English-mail day. The philosophy of
such a scene ought not to be marred by a
mere bag. The peer knows that his niece has
been “keeping house” with her betrayer for
nearly a year; he has been talking to her in
a mood of dignified sorrow and severity; then
between her sobs she lets fall an intimation
that there is an illicit infant. In hushed horror
the peer rises, his glassy eyes suggesting a corpse
looking through a window, his index finger pointing
at the Sin. Then he finds his voice and whispers,
O, Isabel, and you an earl’s daughter! ”
Mr. Stanford, who acted a lord, deserved every
echo of the burst of applause that followed, for
he swam manfully up a cataract of drivel. The
railway smash is not shown as a collision in active
business. A boomful report is heard, and the
curtain goes up and shows a fierce red glare
as of a town on fire over the pleasant land
of France, and there are engines reduced to
scrap iron, and telescoped carriages, and dead
bodies. Lady Isabel lies in the arms of a Sister of
Mercy, and the tragedy prepares to start fresh com-
plications. Miss Duggan looks picturesque in the
happy-home act, and if she would only get rid of
those unnatural acquired basement tones of
voice, and say “My husband ” instead of
“ M’hosband,” The Bulletin would love her like
a brother. Miss Ida Gresham talks the part of
Barbara Hare like a second-hand gramophone.
Miss Ivy Gorrick, as the maid, Joyce, does
a capital and natural bit of acting, and looks extra
pretty. Mr. Laurence Dunbar’s conception of the
wicked baronet, Sir Francis Leveson, is—well it is
callous as a wicked baronet ought to be, and
when he scratches his head with that freedom
from self-consciousness for which all the best
people are remarkable, and then meditatively
inspects his nails, everyone in the audience feels
sure that Laurence knows a thing or two about
baronets’ drawing-room ways. A number of other
characters keep the tragedy up to a fair level.
#* * *
Miss Jessie Maclachlan returns to Sydney
during the coming week, to sing the songs that
move the Scottish heart to emotion and reckless
dispersal of good siller.
MISS JESSIE MACLACHLAN, THE
SCOTCH BALL ADI ST.
Photo, by Falk, Sydney.
Mr. John Sheridan, as “King Dodo” at
Sydney Criterion, tries to renew his youth, and
continues to win a beautiful bride (without
apparent reason for such good fortune). The
songs of Miss Maud Amber and Mr. Winfield
Blake are now running as easily as oil down a
gentle slope ; the chorus has riveted itself toge-
ther ; and if the public desires to forget its gas
bills and other vexations, it may do so by watch-
ing “King Dodo.” A handsome Brisbane girl
with some voice—Miss Walden-Taylor—has joined
the co., and the beak of the Dodo does not grow
less.
* * sic- *
The Westminster glee party has been
raising its several and collective voice at Sydney
Town Hall throughout the week, except for two
days, when the boys took their white collars up
to sooty Newcastle. The collars came back sadly
soiled, but the charmingly blended voices are as
good as new; and Madame Hooten’s full con-
tralto, basso Sterndale Bennett’s humorous
encores, the piping of the large-sized alto,
Llewellyn’s vigor, and Branscombe’s own fluent
and expressive tenor continue to merit the
remarks that were poured upon them last week.
** * *
Fuller Golden continues to be the bright
star, likewise the comet with the longest tail, and
the aurora borealis, at Sydney Ti voli. There is a
considerable shortage just now of large letters on
the bills, and the man who prints them is making a
fortune out of the ink he isn’t using. If Winton
and some of the others took a sea trip to Tom
Ugly’s Point, and called themselves Morcom
Granby, and were billed as the distinguished
entertainers who had brought warmth and glad-
ness to the cold home of the Grand Llama of
Thibet, and had made seven triumphal tours
through the Courts of Europe, they would pro-
bably be reckoned very extra-special. As things
are, the local manufacturer of mirth and melody
has nearly as cold a time as the local manufacturer
of pots and pans.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.), where she
boomed exceedingly five years ago, Miss Nance
O’Neil made her reappearance as Magda last
Saturday night. Playgoing Melbourne is mostly
familiar with the plot of Sudermann’s domestic
tragedy, and would like to have the first act cut
shorter. Magda ran away from her father’s
stuffy domicile when she was 17. The place
smelt of camphor, cough-mixture, and bourgeois
respectability. Her virtuous, tyrannical father
wouldn’t let her call her soul her own. He had
dedicated it to “The Purity of the Hearth” and
everlasting dullness. So Magda went forth upon
the loose, and a priggish young townsman, named
Von Keller, plucked the first fruits of her warm,
maternal instincts. After six months of joyous
amorosity in cheap lodgings—half a year of
sweet illusion and bread-and-dripping and kisses
—Magda lost her young man. He went back to
provincial respectability, leaving his girl to work
out her destiny. She was a girl in a million,
but the dull dog didn’t appreciate her rarity.
Magda’s destiny began with a baby. She sup-
ported her child by singing ; finally she sang her-
self into a position, where she was able to look
back at her stuffy, cheerless girlhood and thank
her stars for her escape. Now, Sudermann’s play
presents this brainy rebel prima donna as a tempo-
rary sentimentalist, roosting under the paternal
roof for no discoverable reason. It isn’t exactly
her tradition of childish love for a pig-headed
father with whom she hasn’t one thought in
common, nor her more natural affection for a
gentle, nerveless sister, nor her strange desire to
please the family pastor that induces brilliant
Magda to come and stay a week in the
atmosphere of propriety, " which had half
stifled her even before she had breathed the
air of freedom. She comes back in order to
provide plot for Sudermann’s play. Her morbid
parent, always worrying after the secrets of her
Past (it had lasted 12 years), discovers that his
learned friend, Von Keller, was the first secret,
whereupon the old tyrant commands his daughter
to marry Keller, and she positively entertains this
notion. Meanwhile her splendid career is kept
waiting outside on the mat. Keller, who is locally
a tin god, proposes that Magda, on marrying him,
shall cut the stage for the sake of his precious
respectability, and this is the last straw which
breaks the prima donna’s patience. She in-
forms her fatuous dad, in other words, that
Von Keller is merely a contemptible detail in
her Past. It has been a broad, comprehensive
Past, embracing other and more interesting men.
Then it is time for the old German tyrant to ex-
pire. He dies of apoplexy, or his daughter’s Past
flies to his stomach, like the gout. Anyhow, he
passes hence, and Magda appears grief-stricken at
the finish. Perhaps she is wondering what parti-
cular sort of Sheol can be reserved for bullying,
meddlesome, Scripture-quoting slaves of Mrs.
Grundy, such as was her father, now deceased.
* * « *
The difference between the present and
past Miss Nance O’Neil is noticeable. A some-
what quieter actress, she is less weighty and to
the same degree less forcible than of yore. Her
voice has lost a little strength whilst her elocution
has retained its main defect, for she still chops her
lines into short lengths and speaks them in a
tutored strain, the old fault being very apparent
when she dialogues with the good shepherd
in the second act. The subsequent stormy scene
with Von Keller practically compels any experi-
enced actress to let herself go naturally. Miss
O’Neil’s Magda might carry fuller conviction to the
critical mind if her support were up to the best
Australian standard of dramatic art, which it cer-
tainly is not. “Her own selected company”
includes three of the originals—M‘Kee Rankin,
Mrs. Bracy and Miss Ricca Allen. Rankin is a
weakened repetition of his previous Colonel
Schwartz, and he rather suggests a grim Uncle
Tom, with the blackness off him, than a military
person. The new arrivals are not a pronounced
success in this instance, nor is there any justifica-
tion for the buffoonery introduced by three of the
“ comic relief ” characters. “ Magda ”is only for
six nights. On Saturday, the co. will appear in
another of Sudermann’s play—“ The Fires of St.
John.”
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s there is no wild,
unreasonable demand for “Bill Adams.” The
medley of song and dance and “wheezes” is a
brisk little show, and the public that took kindly
to, say, “Mama’s New Husband,” might have
spared a satisfactory patronage for “Bill”; but
the public is otherwise engaged. Therefore “ The
Rose of the Riviera” will take the floor on Satur-
day. A fortnight later the Brough-Flemming
Comedy Co. is to open its proceedings with
“ Beauty and the Barge.”
** * *
The announcement of Hugo Heermann as
a great master of the violin and the possessor of a
remarkably fine instrument to play upon, was
borne out by his first performance at Melbourne
Town Hall last Saturday afternoon. The bearded
stranger was heard in a Beethoven concerto, and
likewise a Mendelssohn ditto, with an admirable
orchestra of 50, and the results fetched more ap-
plause (genuine) from a fair-sized audience
than is raised on six ordinary occasions
when the hall is crowded. Heermann’s
music is not of the sensuous order. On
Tuesday night he was to play the Kreutzer
Sonata with W. A. Laver at the piano, and
although the “ Kreutzer,’’according to Tolstoi, is
a purely improper work, it goes as a matter of
course that Heermann gave it a high moral tone
at every possible opportunity. One listens to the
artist with pleasure whilst regarding the man with
reverence, not to say awe. He is so modest a
workman. He makes the finest feats of technique
appear simple. He has no tricks of pose, no
tendency to spread himself, no superfluous growth
of hair. He appears to love music better than he
loves Hugo Heermann. A calm intrepid pro-
fessor who would die, if necessary, in defence of
his famous violin.
** * *
“Sporting Life” has only another week to
flourish at Melbourne Royal before “The Flood
Tide ” sets in. Meanwhile Walter Baker is coming
up to the scratch every evening in place of the
other alleged pugilist (Albert Norman), who has
drunk of the brandy when it was drugged.
Baker’s easy defeat of the Terrible Chicken is
about the most extraordinary occurrence in the
annals of melodramatic heroism. He doesn’t need
to remove his braces for the purpose. His name
is Lord Woodstock, and his family pride will not
permit him to strip further than his dress-coat,:
vest, and shiny belltopper. One of these nights
he will probably beat the record by wearing his
belltopper throughout the battle, and jumping on
it in his hour of victory.
** * *
“0.K.”: A.N.A. competition, which
disturbs the mental balance of hundreds of
young Victorians, seems to have accounted for
the appearance of an amateur girl singer at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) the other afternoon, when
G. B. Lewis took his benefit. The young lady
sang “ The Lost Chord ” in a small voice and
fairly well-trained style. On her singing she had
no visible pretensions to rank as a professional
contralto; also, she lacked the face and figure
for a successful public career. She was an unin-
teresting performer in every respect, but her
presence on the stage, for this occasion only, was
said to be justified by the fact that she has
taken a first prize at many of the A.N.A.
warbling competitions. Unfortunately, the pro-


gh
TRAMWAYS FOR MINES..
ECONOMY IN HAULAGE.— Horse and dray is cheaper than a wheelbarrow, but an
up-to-date Tramway, with suitable rolling-stock for manual horse or loco, traction,
is still more economical and expeditious. Large Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
stocks of Steel Rails, Mining Tip-trucks, Portable Tramway, Switches Turntables, &c.
INDENTS— Dog-spikes to Compound Locomotives—t.e., EVERYTHING.
ggP Q ur CATALOGUE is yours for the asking.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY APPLIANCES
Ppop. Ltd., 64 PITT BTREET, SYDNEY. y LEPLASTB.ER, Manager
Representing Orhnbtein and Koppbl, Ltd., London, Berlin and Pang.
Branches—so 4 Little Collins-st, Melbourne, and at Brisbane, Cairns and Zeehan (Tasmania)
PHOSPHORUS, Arsenic, Carbide, Castor Oil,
Cornsacks, Woolpacks, Glue, Shellac, “Sun
Brand” Chutney, Acetic,Sulphuric and Hydro-
chloric Acids, in stock and to arrive.
Igjgr- Correspondence Invited.
HY. MARKWALD,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Fremantle
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin, Christchurch.
gramme gave no hint of the solemn truth. The
public would like to know what sort of talent the
A.N.A. tournaments are encouraging. Here was
an object lesson—the mild young lady with her
Lost Chord.
** * #
Miss Eileen Castles, the third of the
Castles sisters to have notoriety thrust upon her,
turns out to be a quite uncalled-for subject for
enthusiasm. Given the same opportunities, a
hundred other Melbourne damsels could, in a foot-
ball way of speaking, run .vocal ‘‘rings” round
Miss Eileen.
## * *
The Opera House programme is waiting
for reinforcements just at present. Alice Pierce
and Fred Millis are the largest typed performers
on the Rickards job, and their “turns” are not
unworthy of the type, but the lady’s imitations of
actresses have been there before, and the advt.
states a double truth when it claims that Millis is
a ventriloquist who “starts where all others
finish.” The matter with Millis is painfully
apparent. He ought to have been in front of the
others before they started. Next Saturday brings
Milo and Cruickshank to light. Milo is described
as a lovely living picture of marble Yenuses and
chaste Dianas who revives the glories of ancient
Greek art, what time Cruickshank reflects lightning
caricatures of modern individuals upon a sheet.
** # *
An Adelaide correspondent writes :
The Broughs, leaving Herbert Flemming behind in
Westralia to convalesce, opened at Adelaide Royal with
“ Beauty and the Barge.” The points of the piece may be
appraised in this order: (1) The stage setting. (2) The
chance given to Robert Brough. (3) Clean and idyllic
farcical comedy. The third is all right—but the other
two are better still. The bar of a country inn is realistic,
and the open river scene (from bank to bank) of the last
act beats, for spaciousness and open-air effect, anything
seen in Adelaide since “ Midsummer Night.” Also Brough
as Captain Barley navigates an enormous barge, with
sails, clean across the stage. Harry Whaite is the scenic
artist. The story is in regular Jacobs style, with the
juveniles refined a bit too much, and a peppery major
who is an excrescence. The barge-captain is a general
philanderer, with at least two “lilies of the valley” in
cultivation at once, and he hopes to make steady com-
pany of the young girl who takes passage with him. With
her lover disguised as the mate, and one of his own
‘ lilies ’ shut up under hatches, the captain makes heavy
weather of it, and at the finish he is left rather patheti-
cally alone, steering off into the ewigkeit. Brough was
welcomed back to Adelaide with a Register leader in the
morning, and with an ovation that shook the house at
night. Disguised in ear-rings, a beard, and a fearsome
provincial accent, he carries the whole play on his back.
Mrs. Brough is standing out for the present, but Miss
Temple and Miss Major play the two charmers of uncer-
tain age. What the young new-comers have to do they
skim through lightly enough. John F. Forde, as an old
sea-dog, is allowed to score heavily with a really Jacobsy
attack of pretended illness, which costs the young lover
£5. When Herbert Flemming comes to Adelaide, “ The
Walls of Jericho ” may be expected.
The Wild Cat Column.
The figures which follow show the progress
made during the past year by the offices doing life assur-
ance business in Australasia, and in some particulars for
the past 10 years. First as to additions to funds (the
figures for the National Mutual are for 1897 and not 1894,
former being when the office as now constituted began)
Additions to Funds.
1894. 1903. 1904.
A.M.P. .. ..£480,654 £895,310 £892,712
National Mutual .. 140,231 213,965 258,551
Maoriland State .. 135,649 129,244 153,522
Citizens’(ord.) .. 18,208 147,824 147,945
Col. Mutual.. .. 131,328 114,220 111,270
Mutual Life Ass. .. 46,514 129,660 100,175
Citizens’ (ind.) .. 10,060 35,088 53,401
Widows’Fund .. 84,201 61,973 45,356
Temp. & 6. (ord.) .. 18,411 26,135 32,192
Temp. &G. (ind.) .. 4,388 14,392 20,782
City Mutual.. .. 13,103 16,316 20,196
Standard .. .. 6,180 3,652
Aus. Metrop. .. 976 1,417
And for the three American offices :
1894. 1904.
New York Life .. .. £2,539,894 £7,615,235
M.L. of New York ... .. 3,519,913 6,138,905
Equitable 3,384,009 5,679,936
In the 1904 figures £102,679 profit made by the New York
Life on actual sale of securities is included; but an in-
crease in the value of securities of £1,816,600 in the case
of the Mutual Life of New York, and of £986,487 in the
case of the Equitable is not reckoned as income. It is
possible, however, that part of this is profit actually
realised, though it is not shown as such.
Total Funds, and Growth in 10 Years.
10 years’
1894. 1904. Growth.
A.M.P £12,849,590 £20,794,290 £7,944,700
Nat. Mutual .. 2,563,470 4,018,902 1,455,432
Maoriland State 2,307,239 3,722,439 1,415,200
Col. Mutual .. 1,793,629 2,920,210 1,126,581
Mut. Life Ass. .. 1,048,985 1,868,774 819,789
Widows’ Fund .. 1,194,317 1,685,082 490,765
Citizens’(ord.).. 53,024 922,522 869,498
Citizens’(ind.) .. 162,447 370,682 208,235
T. and G. (ord.).. 170,678 342,775 172,097
City Mutual .. 120,603 274,907 154,304
T. &G. (ind.) .. 38,778 69,845 31,067
Aus. Metrop. .. 26,408 26,408
Standard .. 23,180 23,180
Totals .. £22,302,760 £37,040,016 £14,737,256
M. ofN. York.. 42,020,284 89,936,996 47,916,712
Equitable .. 38,550,897 84,546,275 45,995,378
N. Life .. 32,936,129 78,855,562 45,919,433
Totals .. £113,507,310 £253,338,833 £139,831,523
Thus the funds of Australasian offices have increased by
£14,737,256 during the past 10 years—an increase of
almost exactly 66 per cent., while the three American
offices doing business in Australia have increased 123 p.c.,
or at very nearly double the Australian rate. Of course
a small part of this increase is due to Australian business ;
but it is so small as to hardly count. High Protection,
and the consequent magnificent prosperity of the U.S.,
furnishes practically the whole explanation of the
dazzling figures. While the aggregate increase of
funds in Australasian offices has amounted to 66
p.c., the principal individual growths have been as
follows:—A.M.P., 61‘8 p.c.; Nat. Mutual, 81'2 (this
society was amalgamated with the Mutual of Victoria
in 1896, and an allowance is made so as to show
figures on the same basis as the others); Maoriland,
61 - 3 ; Col. Mutual, 62-8 ; Mutual Life Ass., 78-2 ; Widows’
Fund, 41'1 ; Citizens’ (ordinary), 1639-8; Citizens’(indus-
trial), 128-2 ; T. &G. (ord.), 100-8 ; City Mutual, 128. But
these figures are probably more interesting than valuable.
The young society naturally shows up best; for one thing
its outgo for claims is much smaller; also the society
which had only £lOOO to start with had to add but £lOOO
in order to show an increase of 100 per cent., while the
society which had £1,000,000 has to show a thousand
times £lOOO in order to grow 100 per cent.
Next as to expenses and earnings, reckoning
the former on the basis (per cent.) of total income ; the
latter on mean funds :
Expenses per cent. Interest per cent,
on Income. on Average Funds.
1903. 1904. 1908. 1904.
A.M.P. .. ..£8 17 0 £8 16 7 £4 810 £4 9 0
Maoriland .. 13 19 4 12 11 8 4 611 4 610
Citizens’(ord.).. 13 14 3 13 611 4 3 6 4 6 1
Nat. Mutual ..17 16 4 18 1 5 413 11 413 9
M. 17 16 0 19 19 7 4 7 0 4 7 1
Widows’Fund.. 18 19 6 20 69 471 469
Col. Mutual .. 19 19 10 20 15 1 319 8 4 1 4
City Mutual .. 22 3 9 21 13 7 5 9 0 5 310
T. &G. (ord.) .. 26 9 6 22 18 10 4 8 8 4 9 1
Citizens'(ind.).. 53 19 1 44 10 9 4 3 6 4 6 1
T. &G. (ind.) .. 66 9 5 58 14 7 4 8 8 4 9 1
Standard .. 76 311 60 6 3 319 8
Aus. Metrop. .. 80 10 6 76 19 1 4 7 4
Equitable .. 19 9 7 18 14 2 319 10 4 2 4
N. Y. Life .. 20 14 2 20 1 6 4 611 4 8 8
M.L. ofN.Y. .. 20 14 5 20 10 6 4 5 4 4 6 4
The expenses of management show very little, if any, real
reduction during the past 10 years. On the basis of total
income a reduction is apparent, but that is on account of
the growth of cheaply-managed funds. Taking as a basis
income from premium receipts (excluding consideration
for annuities), the principal offices show up in about this
way
Expense Rate Compared with Premiums.
1894. 1904.
A.M.P £l3 2 4 p.c. .. £l3 10 6 p.c.
Maoriland .. 23 0 0 ~ .. 19 11 1 „
Nat. Mutual .. 26 16 0 „ .. 26 410 „
M.L.A 28 13 0 „ .. 28 0 0 „
Citizens .. .. 16 5 0 „ .. 15 19 10 ~
Col. Mutual .. 26 0 6 „ .. 27 18 0 „
Widows’ Fund .. 23 12 6 „ .. 28 5 6 „
T. &. G .. .. 24 19 6 „ 28 0 0 „
City Mutual .. 39 3 0 „ .. 27 6 6 „
As nearly as the form of the accounts allow it to be
shown, the present rate for the three American offices on
this basis is : Equitable, £23 12s. Id. p.c. ; New York Life,
£24 2s. lOd. p.c. ; Mutual Life of New York, £26 10s. 3d.
p.c. But the American office cannot, under the New
York insurance law, include as premium income premiums
paid out of surrender value. This reduces the premium
income and thus increases the expense ratio on that basis.
A final comparison, showing what is done with
the assets (figures are p.c. of the total): —
Investments.
Public Mort- Other Free- Cash,
Securities, gages. Loans, holds, &c. &c.
A.M.P. .. 25-0 45-9 20'8 4’2 47
Maoriland .. 21’4 52 - 3 17 - 6 3'3 5'4
Citizens’ .. 28 "7 40'7 6 - 5 18’9 5‘2
Nat. Mut. .. 5-3 62'9 17'5 15'4 B‘9
M. .. 18'5 49-0 9'5 18’0 6'o
Widows’Fund 10’8 60'4 12-8 10'4 5‘6
Colonial Mut. 10‘7 437 8 7 267 10’2
City Mutual.. 9'4 42-3 197 237 s'B
T. &G. .. 197 30-3 17-6 247 B'3
Standard .. 88’9 4’o 77
Aus. Metrop. 26'6 o's I*6 64 - 5 6’B
Equitable .. 197 B’3 B'9 637
N. Life .. 14‘3 6‘o 10'0 34 66’3
M.L. of NY. 37 237 B'4 7'B 57‘6
Of the American offices’ holding in cash, etc., the
following is represented by stocks and shares :—Equit-
able, 55-2 p.c. ; N.Y. Life, 607 p.c. ; M.L. of New York,
52 p.c. Australian bank rates of interest having been
comparatively high during the year, many offices have
increased their bank deposits, shown above as “ Cash,
&c.” In but very few cases has there been an increase in
the holding of public securities—as a class by far the most
solid of all the securities. Freeholds and leaseholds, in-
cluding foreclosed properties, are still excessively heavy
in some offices; but in nearly every case a reduction is
shown. This class of security accounts often for low
earnings. “ Other loans ” are mostly loans on policies—
generally a very undesirable feature of life assurattce
business. Approximately 75 per cent, of Australasian
life-assurance funds are represented by public securities,
mortgages, or cash, and another 13 per cent, by loans on
policies within their surrender value.
* * * ,
Life assurance offices anxiously watched a case
that was before Justice Oohen (N.S.W.), the other day.
A man had “proposed” to the New York Life, and had
been put off on the ground of “ moral hazard.” “ Moral
hazard ” is an indefinite thing ; pretty often it means
that the proponent is financially unsound, and possibly
disposed to suicide, or, anyway, not likely to give the
office a square deal. For their own protection (that is to
say, for the protection of honest policy-holders), the
offices exchange confidential reports, so that a man who
has been declined by one office cannot lie his way into
another office. The New York Life, on the application of
the City Mutual, confidentially reported that a proposal
to the latter had been declined for “ moral hazard.” The
existence of this confidential report; somehow leaked out
into the ear of the proponent, who wanted £lOOO to wipe
out the alleged smudge on his character. Matters, how-
ever, didn’t go beyond the plaintiff’s case ; Judge at that
stage promptly non-suited, on the ground that the report
was privileged (which was admitted), and that there
wasn’t any malice to destroy the privilege (which wasn’t
admitted). Yet, how far offices can go in this matter
isn’t clearly settled even now. All depends upon the
absence or presence of malice ; and legal malice is a strange
and uncertain animal.
• * * *
Treasurer Daglish, of Wesbralia, has been try-
ing Bull-Cohen with another little lot of £1,400,000, and
uncle’s answer is calculated to make any ordinary
Treasurer feel small and sad. Apparently because he had
got some speculators to underwrite the loan for a heavy
commission, Daglish reckoned that the thing was a
success, and that Westralia could safely go ahead and
make a splash ; wherefore he filled his political pro-
gramme with bridges and harbors and railways and
batteries. But now it transpires that the public
only took £350,000 of the loan, leaving £1,050,000 on
the hands of the underwriters ; and as it is understood
that there are large sums of previous loans still in the
hands of the same go-betweens, the chances of Daglish
getting any more are Buckley’s. Any improvement that
takes place in the market will be promptly seized by the
underwriters to unload the baby they are nursing ; and
though they will naturally say nice things about Westra-
tralian stock until they get rid of the infant, once they
get out of their trouble, the Westralian market will be
billed as too dangerous to touch. So Daglish will get his
£1,400,000 ; but If he wants to stick to his gaudy works
proposals he will probably have to raise the rest of the
money from revenue. And up to now he hasn’t shown
that he has half grit enough to do it.
• * * *
The crowd that G-. H. Reid expects to get his
anti-Socialistic support from in Westralia is still busy-
reaching out for more Socialism. When Premier Daglish
was up at Kalgoorlie, the other day, the Fattest mer-
chants and property-owners of the city lined up in a
deputation, told him that anti-Socialism, as represented
by the fire insurance co.’s, was treating them shamefully,
and begged him to set a State Fire Insurance Depart-
ment going. Daglish, who represents a party which is
supposed to simply rush into Socialism bald-headed,
reminded them that they hadn’t supplied him with any
figures. But he added that if figures, when they were
supplied, were satisfactory, he would ask Parliament for
the necessary authority-.
* * * *
Premier Carruthers ought to be encouraged to
resist the attempt of the Bull co. to prevent a Govern-
ment township being “proclaimed” near the proposed
shale and oil mines and works. The Bull co.’s idea is
apparently to house the workmen in its own cottages, on
its own property ; and Australia has had several samples
of what that means. N.S.W. has one Bull-owned town-
ship where a local paper which once spoke disrespectfully
of the co. isn’t allowed to show its nose ; and another
State knows a mining township owned by the co., which
has used its ownership to break down a strike by threat-
ening wholesale evictions.
The Commercial Bank of Australia pays off, on
September 30, this year, the last block of the A series of
locked-up deposits, due in 1906. Gradually the awful
mess which was made in the days when there wasn’t any
Labor party is being- cleared up out of the profits made
in these days when the Labor party is alleged to be send-
ing the country to the dogs. And the humorous feature
of this special case is that Henry Gyles Turner, who was
manager when the mess was made, still wants to be taken
as a serious authority on how to do things.
* * * *
The Equitable Life office, of New York, seems
to be pulling itself out of its troubles. Young vice-
president Hyde, who held the stock of the founder of the
office, his father, and whose row with President Alexander
was at the bottom of the whole trouble, has sold out to
somebody (presumably the society, though this point
isn’t clear yet); and trustees have been appointed to use
the powers which this stock carries. These trustees, who
include ex.-U.S. President Grover Cleveland, will act in
the interests of policy-holders.
* * * *
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Adelaide): —
Added
Profits. Dividends. to Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Oct., 1903.. £355 4£ per cent. =£4lo £654
April, 1904.. 429 4J „ „ 414 £l5 669
Oct., 1904.. 401 4J „ „ 367 34 703
April, 1905.. 349 4& „ „ 331 18 721
The society’s capital is £15,873, as against £19,842 twelve
months ago, a large number of matured shares having
been paid out. The society still works almost exclu-
sively on its own capital, having but £9OO on deposit;
while of its securities only £lBO3 is represented by loans
to shareholders, the balance of £15,564 being out on
mortgage to non-shareholders. But S. Australia has a
State Bank, one result of which appears to be to reduce
the rate of interest on such securities as a well-managed
building orinsurance society looksafter. Several insurance
societies say frankly that they can’t afford to lend out
money in S. Australia on mortgage while they have the
other States open to them—States in which the State
Bank idea hasn’t been developed as far—and the Queen
Building Society shows gross interest-earnings of only £6
28. per cent, on its mean funds. This, and the compara-
tively small turn-over, account for the low dividend ; ex-
penses probably wouldn’t be much more if the office did
twice the work.
m * * »
“Capt.” Morish, the first manager of the
Broken Hill Central and South, died a few days back, in
Adelaide. Both the Central and South were owned by
Sydney men ; and Sydney, as usual, went down badly.
Both mines later turned up trumps ; but Sydney quitted
the game before that happened. But while Sydney had its
finger in that pie there were some magnificent market
jumps and slumps, and Morish had always the luck to get
in and get out at just the right time. He was that
comparatively rare bird—a mine manager who made a
pile before he got too old or too good to enjoy it.
* * * *
After a lull, Broken Hill shows more energy in
the matter of zinc production. B.H. Prop, has started
its acid plant again ; Sulphide Corporation (which has
been using a magnetic plant) has just added a granula-
tion process, designed to separate all the minerals in the
ore, which is the ideal process if costs can be kept down ;
and the British is about to introduce the Potter (acid)
process. This last co. has about 350,000 tons of tailings
and slimes, from which a profit of ss. per ton is expected,
though neighboring Block 14 only showed 2s. per ton,
using same process last half-year. Sulphide’s year closes
June 30; it has had a good time, and, with the heavy
carry-forward from last year, a div. on all shares is reason-
ably expected. This accounts for the move in shares.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction shareholders held a
gloomy meeting at Adelaide last week, when it was
announced that the mill would have to shut down, and
efforts would be made to find more ore. Without a lot of
luck the co. won’t pull through on calls from present
shareholders, who are not in the mood to pay up. Mine
is not explored below 800 ft., and deeper sinking is wanted,
and that can’t be done satisfactorily on calls from people
who have largely lost confidence. Some of the profits
from former rich patches ought to have been reserved ; as
they weren’t, the fate of the mine seems to be to drift
into the hands of one of its neighbors. As anticipated,
Capt. Warren, who was so much out in his estimates, has
resigned the management.
* * * *
It looks as though a large slice of another
Broken Hill mine will drift towards Bull, South Blocks
having received an offer from a London syndicate (most
likely Lionel Robinson’s party) to put in £50,000 in ex-
change for 100,000 shares in a new 200,000 co. Present
co. is in 200,000 shares (100,000 paid and 100,000 contrib.);
paids will probably get 75,000 and contribs. 25,000 shares.
Former have stood lately at about 9s. ; contribs., 4s. 3d.,
or about £66,000 for the lot. Syndicate will get half the
mine for practically £25,000, as half the £50,000 which it
puts up will still be its own. Some sort of reconstruction
was inevitable. Mine has no mill and very few other
appliances ; it wants at least £30,000 spent on machinery,
and it is very doubtful whether the contribs. are strong
enough to put up the money. Mine was formerly part
of the B.H. South, and carries a strong body of low-grade
sulphides, which are no use to the co. without a mill.
• * * *
B. H. South Blocks contribs. will no doubt kick
against the proposed division of shares in the new co.—
25,000 to them for their 100,000 present shares ; 75,000 to
the paids for their 100,000. Is one paid worth' three
contribs. ? Market evidently didn’t think so, for it valued
paids at 95., contribs. at 4s. 3d. The old trouble over the
real meaning of the liability on contrib. shares is bound
to crop up. Contribs. will claim that they are cutting
away their interest in the mine to an eighth when, by paying
up a few calls, they might make the mine a div.-payer, and
own half of it, and get half the divs. But the B.H.
South didn’t let the contribs. escape calls, even after divs.
were coming steadily: and others have followed suit.
Speculators at one time didn't trouble over-much whether
shares in a productive mine were paids or contribs. But
some of them know better now—the contrib. is loaded.
• • *
The New Hillgrove Prop. (N.S.W.) May revenue
was £5480; working expenses, £1320 ; development and
other local charges, £847 ; profit on working account,
£3313, or just over 60 per cent, of the income. Things
are looking up again.
* * * *
Prospecting is still proceeding at Wallangalla
(Lightning Ridge, N.S.W.) opal field. Some good stone
is being won, and most of the men on the field are making
wages. The other day some stone was found which
realised £25 per oz.
* * * *
Developments continue interesting at Mouse-
trap, Wyalong (N.S.W.). In addition to an application
put in for the property by H. Naylor, a director of Golden
Fleece, A. Duncan, manager of the Fleece and share-
holder in Mousetrap, conjointly with H. Clements, also a
director of the Fleece, has pegged out the property as a
mining tenement. On the other hand, the Mines Depart-
ment is said to be disposed to review its action in can-
celling the lease: and altogether things are mixed, and
healthy-looking for the lawyers.
* * * »
Total output of W.A. mines for May was
157,6850 z. ; total for year, 810,2220 z., against 523,1690 z.
for same period of 1904. This shows a shortage of 69470 z.
To maintain same output as in 1904, returns for next
seven months must average 167,5000 z. ; and this is very
unlikely. Last year showed a deficiency of 81,5710 z.,
compared with 1903 ; this year is now likely to show about
50,0000 z. less than last year.
• * * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.), which was expected to
resume treatment of ore this month, is, for the moment,
in a bad way. Trial run of new plant failed, as power pro-
vided was found utterly inadequate. Part of the plant
was discarded at Lake View Consols some years ago.
South Kalgurli is working same lodes as L.V. Consols, so,
if furnace plant is suitable for treatment of ore, an error
was made in scrapping it 3J years ago. Developments on
South Kalgurli have recently been very satisfactory,
and it is a pity that starting of re-treatment should have
been delayed by any miscalculations. At No. 7 level
especially good ore is showing.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.), in spite of diamond-
drilling and crosscutting, has failed to locate any more
pay ore, and prospects seem pretty hopeless. Accumu-
lated slimes, which totted up 11.000 tons, have been
reduced to 4000 tons, and as every month 1000 tons more
are being treated than produced, accumulation will be
worked off by September at latest. Ore now being
treated yields Idwt. on plates, l£dwt. by cyanlding,
and 2dwt. by filter-pressing, or in all and this
certainly won’t pay, as costs work out at 30s. a ton or
thereabouts.
Golden Pole, Davy hurst (W.A.). continues to
open up splendidly. Winze below No. 8 level is down
85ft., and h£3 carried Sift, of reef, averaging 2oz. 12dwt.
Opening out at No. 4 level i's in progress, and this level
will be oonneoted with No. 3as soon as possible. A new
24-acre block adjoining on North has been pegged out,
making a total length of 36 chains on line of reef. Where
reef was cut in South block it has been followed down
40ft., where drives north and south are being put in. At
this point reef is 15in. wide, and worth 15dwt.
* * # *
Westralia Waihi, Davyhurst, is looking rather
better, and manager YVatts has hopes of making mine a
small div. payer. No. 4 reef on east is most hopeful find
made on property, and a crosscut from 282 ft. level is
being pushed ahead to test it at depth. Crosscut has to
go3ooit.,and is already in 100 ft., and is being pushed.
This new reef has been tested on surface by costeening,
and runs up to 83dwt. for 18in. wide. If values and size
are maintained when cut at depth, prospects of co. will be
materially improved.
* « #
Prospectors and others are requested to forward
samples of Asbestos and full particulars to Herbert
Soanes, the only Asbestos Specialist in Australasia.
Reports made and sales negotiated. Address: Herbert
Soanes, Asbestos Specialist, Box 202, P. 0., Perth, W.A.*
* * * *
Joint Stock Co.’s Journal (London) July 20,
1904, writes :—“ One of the offices which are in the happy
position that they can look back upon a distinct advance
in the year of leanness—l9o3—is the Colonial Mutual,
which as the title states, is an office whose profits are
shared to the last farthing by participating policy-
holders.”*
* • * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and 00., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King-streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a twenty horse-power gas-engine
belted to a “ Ganz ” twelve kilowatts dynamo, a “ Ganz ”
switch-board containing all the measuring and controlling
instruments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The
generating machinery runs continually during the day
time at its full capacity and highest efficiency, the surplus
current being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies
all necessary electricity required during the night; and it
forms also a substantial reserve in case of accidents.
Compared with the previous method of working, a saving
of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant, the
contractors for which were the Austral Otis Engineering
Oompany, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh-streets,
South Melbourne, as sole Australian agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.*
* * * *
Hedley Hawkins, sharebroker, Queen-street,
Brisbane (member, Brisbane Stock Exchange), has agents
every important mining centre and cities of Common*
wealth. Correspondence invited.*
The British Broken Hill Silver Mining Co.,
after careful consideration of all types of boilers, have
E laced an order with Babcock and Wilcox for three large
oilers, each of 500 h.p. Superheaters, chain grate
mechanical stokers and economiser have also been
Ordered from the same firm. This now makes 40 boilers
of the Babcock and Wilcox type supplied to the various
mines and industries at Broken Hill. Wherever economy
in fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. Hence the recent unanimous decision of the
Expert Admiralty Committee to install Babcock boilers as
the standard for the British Navy.*
* * * *
Most millmen are scared to crush through fine
screens, owing to the production of slime mineral which
cannot be caught on bumping tables. The Sperry Slimer
will soon put this fear to the right-about. It is a vanning
convex buddle with an adjustable rubber surface. Write
for particulars to N. Guthridge Ltd., Sydney and Mel-
bourne. See bottom of back cover.*
* * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry (member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange; for the latest informa-
fcion on the field.*
* * * *
The Wilfley Slime Table which has been in
operation on the Ivanhoe Gold Mines for some months
past has been giving extremely good results. Mr. H. T
Brett, Metallurgist of the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, in an
article contributed to the March number of the Chamber
of Mines Journal, W.A., gives particulars of the savings
made, and states that the introduction of the Wilfley
Slime Table will be of great service in treating the low-
grade sulphide ores of the field. Since the future of
Kalgoorlie is so intimately bound up with the most
economical solution of this sulphide problem, this
assurance from Mr. Brett is a most important matter.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, are
sole manufacturers for Australasia of this table.*
* * * »
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting streng th, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
“Nothing Succeeds Like Success.” The
Hornsby “Upright” Water Tube Boiler continues its
successful career. Mail advice reports that the Cargo Fleet
Iron Coy. of Middlesbro, after having experience of this
boiler for some time, have now placed a contract with
Messrs. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., for 10 more—alto-
gether 5500h.p. The Strand and Charing Cross Electric
Light Corporation of London, after similar experience,
have installed and on order over 20,000h.p., while the
Municipal Council of Finchley, London, have similarly
placed repeat orders for large installations. In Austra-
lasia, besides the 2500h.p. now being installed for the
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Coy., Ltd., further orders
have been received from both Queensland and W.A.
mines, and for factory work. Messrs. Wm. Arnott, Ltd.,
the well-known biscuit manufacturers of Sydney, and
Messrs. W. T. Murray and Co., Ltd., of Invercargill, N.Z.,
are also putting down “ Hornsby” Boiler Plant of 300 h.p.
and IOOOh.p. respectively. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd.,
Hay-street, Sydney, and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
•***■*
Assay Balance, Ainsworth’s No. 1 special, 5 inch
beam, agate knife edges and bearings etc., sensibility
l/200th =0.005 milligramme = 1/13000th grain. Price £5O.
Laro-e stock of chemical balances, Beck’s Microscopes,
Gasolene Furnaces, Morgan’s Crucibles, Jena Chemical
Glassware, etc., etc. H. B. SILBERBERG and Co., 443
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Telephone 1377.*
* * * *
The Queensland Smelting Oompany Limited,
Aldershot, Queensland, announce that they are buyers,
smelters, and refiners of gold, silver, lead, copper ores,
matte, bullion furnace and cyanide products. Tariff and
particulars obtainable from the manaaer.*
* * * *
Kalgurli (W,A.) does not show much improve-
ment in its May return—April being 37910 z. and May
38930 z. However, as extensions of treatment plant are
gradually coming into play, June returns should show a
substantial advance, and by July full plant should be
running. Capital expenditure is very nearly at an end,
and, once that item disappears, full benefit of profits will
°’o to shareholders. Developments on mine still continue
satisfactory, as, though shoots are short, they are very
wide.
(Continued on page 30).


A Post Card may Save you Pounds -
Send one to us and we will
post our Sale Catalogues
FREE.
IT IS NOW
SALE TIME
A™therear ß Bargains in All Departments.
FREE CARRIAGE on all goods to nearest P.O,
except Floor Coverings and Furniture.
DA VID JONES and COMPANY,
GEORGE & BARRACK STS., SYDNEY.
k- _ .
. I &
SET,
EXQUISITE MODELS. & PERFECT FIT.
jt # GUARANTEED WEAR. * *
THE NEW
D
... CORSETS
AVOID INFERIOR IMITATIONS.
Each Pair bears the Manufacturers’ Trade Mark on band inside,
as illustrated.
Obtainable from Leading Drapers Everywhere.
SOCIETY
ANADIAN
CLUB
WHISKY.
A REHEARSAL.
ACTOR-MANAGER: “I should not bellow those
lines, Anstruther .”
ANSTRUTHER (unmasking villainy): “Confound
it, sir, I have to make myself heard in the pit.”
ACTOR-MANAGER: “To be sieve, Anstruther, but
not necessarily in the bottomless pit.”
No less than .700 marriages were put
through in Sydney last year by the matrimonial
bureaux, as against only 92 by the State-marriage
agency—the registrar’s office. And even the 700
do not include those put through by men who
live nominally by turning people’s feet to heaven,
but really by directing them to matrimony.
S. Australia has now practically got rid of
every form of State pension. The Chief Justice
is the only remaining public servant who is
entitled to one when he retires —and at 69 he
hasn’t even mentioned retirement. Even the two
new judges, Justices Gordon and Homburg, took
up their work lately without hope or expectation
of pension ; and it will take some years before it
is known how that will work out. There isn’t
any convenient way of sacking a Judge when he
becomes deaf and partially blind, and develops
gout and a vile temper; yet it isn’t at all unlikely
that the Judge who hasn’t a pension to keep his
old age warm will hang on till these things happen
to him.
.#* * *
One Walter M‘Minnis pleaded guilty at
Sydney Water Police Court (14/G/’O5) to stealing
three small pieces of real estate enclosed in pots,
the property of ex-Lands Minister W. P. Crick.
He was sentenced to three months’ imprisonment
—a month for each jug-full of territory. Now, if
only his earth-hunger had been on a wholesale
scale, he might have borrowed £15,000 from a land
agent, who would thereupon persuade the Lands
Department to grant him a few miles of territory,
and all would have been well. But you mustn’t
covet land by the pot-full.
* * • *
The Fat party in Adelaide didn’t miss a
chance to make scornful remarks regarding the
N.S.W. and Vic. Labor M’s.P. who went across
to help local Laborites at the elections. The visi-
tors stood it all pretty well, though it was getting
on the nerves of some of them, when the last straw
arrived. It was in the shape of an anonymous
note addressed to N.S.W. leader McGowen, and
was to the effect that it was bad enough for
ignorant interlopers to come poking their tongues
into other people’s business, but anyhow they
might leave off riot and dissipation in the
hotel. It looked as though it might have
come in a disguised hand from the boss of
the establishment; wherefore McGowen, who is a
strict teetotal man and the stern father of a family,
hurriedly convened a caucus, and then shot out to
find the boss. McGowen’s indignation was at
about 190 degrees ; and, when they remembered
that McGowen had been a boiler-maker, and
hasn’t let his muscle grow flabby, and, moreover, is
a man of impulse, they waited for bits of a land-
lord to start bumping down the stairs. At
that point, the practical joker of the party
reckoned it was about time to streak after
McGowen, and implore him to be calm—the letter
had been his own little way of relieving the
monotony of life in Adelaide, where a joke doesn’t
happen naturally once a year.
* * * *
The Victorian honorary magistrate is a
humorist, in his own little way. The other day,
one of him, at Melbourne City Court, told a man
who had bitten a piece out of the arresting con-
stable, and who further owned up to 33 previous
convictions, that he was a cannibal and a savage,
and worse than a beast; also, that he wasn't fit to
be in the society of decent people. Then he fined
him £3 in all, and allowed him a week to pay.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : I was fascinated as by the eyes
of a cobra di capello
in Little Collins-street
to-day. Behind plate-
glass there was a ven-
erable gentleman, look-
ing like a bishop in his
shirt-sleeves. He was
applying gold-leaf to
the new wooden mace
for the Australian
House of Representa-
tives, and I could not
help thinking of how
maces of much gold
take to themselves
wings and fly through
bluestone. They may
even find their way to
the Mint after melting.
Yes, a mace once went
out, even as sewing-
machine millionaire
Stanford’s favorite
spiritualist Bailey once
made a stone come in
through the walls of his
sumptuous drawing-room
in East Melbourne. So
the venerable gold-beater
was only engaged on a
work of art humbly emu-
lative of Raphael’s liTrans-
figuration”—transfiguring wood
to gold.
A recent escapade of “ Thistle Anderson ”
Fisher (who has caused Adelaide’s one grey hair to
stand on end with amazement because she says she
finds the hamlet slow) had ex-Mayor Cohen as
victim. She was staying at the South Australian
Hotel, and one night a steam-roller started
making unpleasant crunching noises in the street
below. “ Thistle,” or her husband, rang up the
little Mayor at 2 a.m., and asked him politely to
come and take his beastly nasty steam-roller
away. Cohen’s reply is said to have caused the
girl at the exchange great anguish. But why
should a lady who complains of a city because it
is too slow be so anxious to cultivate the slowest
of all virtues —that of being in bed and asleep ?
KNOWN TO THE FORCE.
“You seem to know all the police.”
“ I ought to I drive a motor.”
The democratic successes at the recent
S.A. elections badly upset the household of one
wealthy and aged Conservative. The day the
return of all five Labor members for the Central
District was assured, he wandered round his ex-
tensive grounds like a weeping ghost in black
clothes and pot hat, and addressed each old re-
tainer individually in this strain: “Grimes” (to
the coachman), “ Pve paid you £1233 9s. in wages,
and Giles” (to the gardener), “you’ve had £1126
11s. 6d. whilst you’ve been with me, and yet, I
suppose, you voted for those cursed Socialists.”
And his sad weeps watered the geranium patch.
Inside the house his wife, in trying to ascertain
who the cook and the housemaids voted for,
fell foul of the cook, who had once belonged to a
Young Women’s Guild and had learned public
speaking. Consequently it was a very much over-
done area of grilled steak that the Conservative
family sat down to that night.
The monumental Henty case, which has
been infesting the Victorian law courts since ’9B,
was last week amicably settled “to the satisfac-
tion of all parties.” In the beginning, Caroline
M‘Leod and Alice Hindson sued Henry Henty,
Charles King, H. P. Henty and Louisa Henty
for alleged breaches of trust in the administration
of the estate of the late Francis Henty, who died
in January, ’B9. The hearing before Chief J ustice
Madden occupied 47 days. His Honor’s judgment
took six hours to deliver ; but it was reversed by
the Full Court in much less time. Then there
were cross-appeals to the Privy Council, and the
ten barristers and six or eight firms of solicitors
were looking forward to them with an expensive
expression in their joint and several eye, when a
little friendly consultation put an end to the
squabble. Probably it could just as easily have
been settled seven years ago.
* * * *
The Law loves Precedents —old, dead Pre-
cedents, with fragments of decayed Costs clinging
to their bones. The other day in Melbourne
several learned lawyers argued lengthily, and a
learned Judge finally decided lengthily, that a
caveat lodged by a person who died before he
could take further steps still held good—“a caveat
never lapses.” So the Law decided that the order
nisi obtained against the deceased, after he was
dead, was still in force, and as deceased,
being still dead, had shown no cause why it should
not be made absolute, it was made absolute forth-
with. Costs to come out of the estate. Costs
never die.
Bent has been telling the students of the
Vic. State Continuation School, Melbourne, that
agriculturists produce something, whereas lawyers
produce nothing. Bent is always wrong. Lawyers
produce the title when Bent is selling suburban
allotments in land boom time.
“ Dico ” : The announced intention of
Vie. Education Minister Sachse to provide better
dwellings for country school teachers has sent a
wave of joy through humpy, hut, and dog-box.
The proposed new quarters are to consist of four
rooms, with bath-room,
linen - room, and
verandahs. We all
know what the
bath-room’s for
(we read a little,
you know), but
wha - wha - what’s
a linen - room '!
You will excuse
our ignorance,
perhaps, if 1
picture a typical
bush-school
dwelling for
you. Two
rooms, built
against the
school - house,
with no veran-
dah, even of
the most rudimen-
tary kind, and a
square tank and
black iron chimney
for exterior decora-
tion. Inside, un-
less the door is kept
wide open, the fire-
place smokes like
wet brimstone in
Sheol, in all winds
and weathers.
Everything light-
colored in th e
kitchen - cum - din-
ing-room-cum-par-
lor-cuni-other-
things is yellow,
and the bedroom
door has to be kept
tight-shut all day
to preserve the
bedding, etc., from
a like fate The
roof leaks near one
corner of the bed-
room, and in wet
weather small
streams run down the
wall and over the oilcloth.
The size of the rooms is not conducive to extrava-
gantly luxurious furniture. A small table, sofa, safe
and two chairs fill the kitchen-cum-etc,, and a
bed, washstand and “ portmanchew ” leave no
room for ping-pong in the bedroom. Set this
bleak house on the windy, black-mud Horsham
plains and the picture is complete. Yet men—
God reward their pluck ! —rear families in such
environment; and, if they’re extra plucky, and
flourish at the work, may get a transfer to a
three-roomed dwelling as encouragement. And
the Victorian country teacher who has a three-
roomed house doesn’t want to go to Heaven. He
is there already.
* * * *
“A.G.”: Election rolls are a mine of
information. Have been doing some electioneer-
ing work (in S. Aus.), and have learned a lot as to
the occupations of various people. Pretty well
every female in some streets describes her occupa-
tion as “lady.” “Married,” “wife,” and
“widow” are the other favorite occupations.
“Gentlemen” are also pretty prevalent. Why
doesn’t some original elector say he is a man, and
be done with it ?
* * * *
“Troobill ” : Sat on front seat of Coogee
car beside a brightly be-bloused and be-jewelled
matron and ditto maid, latter nursing a banjo-
box and roll of music. Pair conversed in low,
decorous tones until car reached junction with
racecourse line. Then matron, shooting out
gloved hand and stabbing atmosphere vigorously
several times, raised her voice proudly : “That’s
where the man was killed ! Just there! ” Banjo
maiden : “Were you in the first or second car ? ”
Matron: “The second.” Sweet one with the
luggage that soothes the savage breast: “What a
shame! I suppose
you couldn’t see it
all ? ” Mother per-
son, hurriedly: “Oh,
yes, dear, perfectly !
I got out, you know!”
THE CAPACIOUS BEAR.
MINISTER (who has been telling about the ft
children who were torn by two bears for com-
menting on Elisha's bald, patch): How,
what does this beautiful story teach us ?
BOY (after a lightning calculation): “ S’pose it
shows a bear can hold 21 children."
A BALLAD OP BULLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Hurley, M.L.A., who evidently know 9 little of
natural history, wasted the time of N.S.W. Assembly
lately by complaining that the School Paper described
ant-hills as reaching to a height of 20ft. or 25ft., and
being strong enough to support cattle. John laughed
greatly over his mare’s nest, and evidently regarded
himself as quite a humorous person.
In the New South Wales Assembly there was war, the
other day,
Through a speech on bulls and ant-hills by John Hurley,
M.L.A.
It appears the comic paper given school-boys as a treat
Said the ant-hills in the Transvaal stood as high as twenty
feet!
And upon these little mountains, which were thrown up
from the sand,
It was quite a common practice for the local bull to
stand.
Perched upon this elevation twenty feet above the plain,
Brigham Bull could stand surveying all the herd in his
domain !
As John Hurley laughed about it, and the House was
overjoyed,
The compilers of the paper felt exceedingly annoyed.
I don’t see much cause for anger, it appears a harmless
jest;
Maybe bulls could stand on ant-hills built as high as
Everest!
At the same time, up at Bathurst, up 2000 feet or more,
A “ bull ” by Sydney Smith made all the local people
roar.
“We can meet,” says he, “ opponents, and repel their
fierce attacks!
We can boldly face the people, for we have them at our
hacks 1 ”
All our statesmen are erratic ; seem to preach right off
the text;
And we seldom have a notion where they’re going to
break out next!
Politics are topsy-turvey ; circus-clowns have all the
pull!
And on our highest ant-hill standeth Smith’s amazing
bull.
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


SHORTHAND
Successfully
taught by Mail by
the largest and
most highly
diplomaed staff of shorthand instructors in Australasia.
FEES MODERATE. INSTRUCTION INDIVIDUAL.
PROFICIENCY GUARANTEED.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S Business College,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
s
&
JAMES R. LAWSON & LITTLE,
Fine Art & General Auctioneers,
128-130 PITT STREET (near King Street), SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY WILL FIND
USHER’S METROPOLITAN HOTEL
king street,
The Most Comfortable and Up-to-date in the City. Patrons may depend upon thorough attention,
The nigger-lovers of Australia love the
nigger in an impersonal fashion only. Some of
them in Queensland have been trying to establish
the right to deduct from the miserable £8 a year
which the Kanaka gets, his wages
for any period during which he
may be sick. Queensland
Fuil Court and the High
Court have both decided
against the exaction,
which therefore fails.
It’s an eloquent indica-
tion of the affection the
planters have for their
black brother Tommy.
THE IMPOSSIBLE.
MOTHER: “ Now. Tommy, if you'll be a good boy
to-day I'll give you all the lollies you want.”
TOMMY: “ D'ere ain't no such thing.”
From the West Australian (Perth), of
June 1 :
Roval Birthday Celebration.—ln honor of the birthday
of the Prince of Wales, and to celebrate Admiral Togo’s
great naval victory, a people’s entertainment will be held
on Monday evening next, the public holiday, in Queen’s
Hall. The programme will consist of a ballad concert,
elocutionary recitals, illustrated story songs, and one
hundred descriptive views, inclusive of some of Japan’s
greatest admirals and generals, and England’s notable
sons.
From the Morning Herald (Perth), of June 2
In honor of Admiral Togo’s naval victory, Queen’s Hall
will be decorated for the “People’s Entertainment” on
Monday night next with Japanese national emblems and
works of art. The pictures to be exhibited will include
portraits of Admiral Togo and his officers and their
men-of-war. The full programme of the entertainment
will appear in to-morrow’s issue.
Togo had apparently so swelled up in the interval
that he had quite obscured the Prince of Wales.
On June lit was Wales and Monkey ;on June 2
it was only Monkey.
Sydney City Council recently showed
itself up as a prize pig-headed body. In order to
widen Pitt-street, and give a decent tramway
entrance to the new railway station, the Works
Department requested the Council to forego 40ft.
of the Belmore markets site. Instead of rushing
to give what help it might towards the better-
ment of one of its principal thoroughfares, the
Council refused. Luckily the with
unusual backbone, put the matter into the Crown
Solicitor’s hands, and action is to be taken under
the Public Trust Act, whereby the existing
dedication will be revoked, and the 40ft. required
taken without compensation. Now the Council
threatens to spend the citizens’ money at law to
prevent the citizens’ own street being improved.
Melbourne City Council, instead of being
a model employer, seems to be pretty much of an
adept at sweating, at least as regards the City
Baths. Employees there, female and male, are
compelled to work, in a hot, steamy atmosphere,
eleven hours daily in summer and ten in winter
right through the week, and then have to put in
five hours every Sunday morning. This goes on
every day in the year, Christmas alone excepted.
Even the grasping Tramway Co. could never beat
this record ; and it at least gives its employees a
fortnight’s holiday a year—the clerical employees
on full pay. A council slave who needs a spell
has to do without pay and find a substitute, for
whom he or she is expected to be responsible.
Why the Council should act thus no one knows;
it treats its electrical employees decently enough.
* * * *
The ghost of the old, dead war still crawls
like a blind worm on this country’s premises.
Two things happened last week to recall the
painful event. A Commission began its sittings
in Sydney to decide a claim of £70,000 tor extra
pay, made by a number of allegedly betrayed and
swindled cohentingenters ; and Nelson, the St.
Bernard dog, which used to be the pride and
glory of the Australian farm-burners, was found
in Adelaide, a mere skeleton, hungry, deserted,
and kicked out.
* * * *
A squabble among the numerous Lutheran
churches of S.A. has just been settled in the
Supreme Court; after half-an-hour’s hearing a
conference was agreed to, and the parties settled
their differences in an ante-room, lhe six lawyers
engaged congratulated themselves (by Josiah
Symon as spokesman) that “lawyers are always
ready to be peacemakers.” Clause 4of the agree-
ment reads : “Plaintiffs’ costs to be paid out of
fund ; defendant to have £75 towards his costs out
of fund.” The lawyer isn’t a very cheap peace-
maker. . „
“The Mussel” writes about that ever-
lasting bore, the oldest inhabitant:
The mention of the oldest inhabitant conveys the im-
pression of an elderly person wtm has dragged a blame-
less and sober existence, and has done nobody any harm
and nobody any good. This is quite true. The secret
of longevity is selfishness. When you read m the
daily press that Ann Maria Jones still retains all
her faculties, and can read the Hop Bitters adver-
tisement without spectacles, although she was 107
years old in the middle of next week, you marvel
much, but with mixed feel-
ings. What has Ann Maria
Jones done ? Nothing—ab-
solutely nothing. Through
pure selfishness she has
lived to the boredom of
others. Did she do any-
thing for mankind? No-
thing! Some say she reared
a large family of children.
Did she rear it for altruis-
tic reasons? No ! Pure
selfishness ! They would
keep her when she grew
old. Moreover she had
drifted into a habit of hav-
ing a large family and
couldn’t get out of it. She
lived a calm emotionless
life, and did nothing but
give a journalist a half-
day’s work with her dream-
like impression of two
generations ago. Now,
take the man who dies
young. (Always remember
the good die young.) My
theory is—that there is a
certain amount of goodness
crowded into the human
machine. The man who
lets it out quickest{is the
best man. Some people
carry a larger cargo of
goodness than
others, and there-
fore it takes longer
to unload them.
That is why some
good men live to be
old. But, taken as
a general rule, a
person that lives to
a great age has only
drag ged out a long series
of colorless years. Ann
Maria Jones at 107 —Ann
Maria roosting uselessly on the
grey pinnacle of all those hoary
years, looking; back over a flat desert
of decades with no crag-or pinnacle of joy or drink or excite-
ment or adventure, to break their monotony—with no
tower or pyramid of unusualness to diversify the dead
level of the ordinary cussedness of things—what, after all,
is the good of Ann Maria Jones ? She is a toothless monu-
ment, aged 107—an atom rolling nowhere over the wastes
of chronology for 107 years, and just as remarkable n
history as the one fly that roosts on 107 leagues of wire-
fence on a hot day. The oldest inhabitant is mostly only
another name for the deadest inhabitant.
* » * *
The number of subjects that a really
energetic Technical Education department could
find to teach would probably be three or four
thousand. Most of them wouldn’t have any more
real connection with technical education than the
Dry Dog has with the St. Bernard, but that
apparently doesn’t matter. In Germany and the
other places where they make the things that
Australia ought to be making, technical education
is mostly either a preface or a supplement to a
factory j in hT.S.IVi, while 25 students are learning
the principles of iron-founding, 3375 are learning
how to typewrite the beautiful letter ordering
another roll of calico from Manchester and another
ton of pig-iron from Belgium; and that isn’t
counting in the 1082 more who are learning to
typewrite the beautiful letter in the State schools.
Also, apropos the command to the young man to
go on the land, it is worth noting that the young
man to the extent of a whole nine is learning
farriery, while the elocution classes have 346
students. Presumably the 346 are learning how
to tell the other nine to go on the land, and be the
backbone of the country, and develop the great
natural resources.
“ Miller ” on a subject not yet sufficiently
debated „ _ „„„
Tn th e discussion on woman’s dress, out of nve con-
Si srrsr, -s ‘ snssr as
contributors dispbiy the wildest®SSdSr’Sm'SSSSl
with the fine disregard for facts shown by the anti-
SSSSi dieS S du'ngareesTand
demolish'it.' of these useful
articles should be appropriated by woman, or that sh
should divest herself of daintiness.
“ D H.R.” also announces his unwillingness t 0 £? »„
thp emotion -nroduoing “veiling caressfulness of skirts.
If the chief business of woman is to produce emotion m
man it would perhaps be her duty to retain the skirt,
but it has not been proved that this is her chief duty.
For mv own part, I hold that Nature will produce all
the emotion necessary in man, and that woman s duty is
to the next veneration, to the building up of a race of
white men and women vigorous in body and strong 1
mind a race fit to hold this isolated continent aga.nst all
comers She cadnot do this unless she herself, has a
vigorous body and a strong, free mind. She cannot have
either of these without the vivifying power of oxygen,
and she cannot have a sufficiency of oxygen without
relief from her present crippling dress.
•*r * * *
A story told to the Broken Hill police by
a doctor of the town might have come out of a
penny dreadful only that the p.d. has to give some
consideration to the probabilities. According to the
doctor, a man named Baker called on him asked
to see him privately, and then offered lnm foCI and
promised £5O more when the 30b was completed,
if he would kill Mrs. Baker. The lady was to
have a small dental operation, under laughing-gas,
and the doctor was asked to give her, instead of
that harmless anßesthetic, a deadly dose of chloro-
form. Baker stands his trial charged with incit-
ing to murder. A second count should charge him
with being the biggest fool m Australia, and a
jury might investigate the truth of the two charges
simultaneously.
* * *
“T.S.”: Nelson signalled: “England ex-
pects that every man will do his duty.” Togo
signalled : “All are expected to do their utmost.
Withoeft, the Russian is said to have given as
his final order in the middle of the tight: This is
our last battle; be brave.” And now I want to
know if our Australian commandant has his beauti-
ful closing observation ready against the time we
are invaded. I hope he has. It would be.a plea-
sure to know that something is ready, i propose
that a Parliamentary Commission be appointed to
draw up a terse observation like Finis PoZorwffi,
for our chief defence person to utter as he tails
and the rout begins—no terse observation to run
to more than half a column.
* * * *
You have to be very careful in Melbourne
nowadays. A slightly sober individual whose
“ fan tods ” seemed to mostly run to tears, stopped
in the middle of Queen’s Bridge, the other day,
and, leaning over the parapet, wept copiously into
the Yarra. He was promptly run m for insult-
ing behavior.”
The moving spectacle of a rejected lover
lumping in his last agony doesn t always move the
tender heart of woman. A Ballarat lover, having
fallen out with his best girl, sent her a touching
letter, and received no reply. He called at her
house, and heard from her brother that the girl
was aweary of him, and there was “no hope.’
Whereupon he took from his pocket a small bottle
of “toothache cure”—carbolic jelly, to wit and
publicly swallowed the contents. Then, as the
tooth remedy began to burn the skin off his in-
terior, he did 237 astounding contortions all over
the verandah and the front garden. Interested
passers-by stopped and watched the circus.
More of the family came out and viewed
his transports for a space, then decided
that, as he didn’t seem able to keep still,
and was wrecking the garden with his feet
and his head, they had better take him to the
hospital, where he could be strapped down, and
pumped out, or cut open, or something. Next
day he explained to the magistrates that he did it
to frighten the girl, and they let him go, on paying
the cab-fare. But apparently he didn't frighten
the girl. She seems to have only taken a languid
interest in his calisthenics.
* * * *
Significant of the change of Australian
sentiment in regard to the S’African war, that
Sydney City Council only agreed by a very
narrow majority to give house-room m the Town
Hall for some rifles which were offered as trophies
of that raid. Even the Gaud Mayor was against
housing the guns, and said “ Let them go to the
Museum.”
High Court C. J. Griffith has positively re-
fused to postpone a case to suit senior counsel, stat-
ing that when at the Bar he never asked to have
cases postponed. “And you know, continued his
Honor with a smile, “we must give the junior
Bar a chance.” Apropos of which, a junior once
made a similar application to Chief-Justice James
Martin of N.S.W. The Judge refused, and told
the junior to go on, adding significantly, “ Lost
opportunities are never regained,’ and that junior
went on and got on. In another instance, before
Justice Faucett, this amiable man blandly told a
junior that at the Irish Bar such applications
were never made ; if the senior were absent the
junior went on without him, and frequently did
better than the heavily paid man.
The sorry dyspeptic, submerged in his gloom,
Who feels most dejected and fit for his tomb ;
The poor hypochondriac who wanders in woe,
With no one to speak to and nowhere to go,
Whom no consolation nor comfort can please,
Who maintains he’s a martyr to every disease,
bet them aid their digestion and keep their blood pure
And recruit upon Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
SAID ALFRED DEAKIN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Deakin, M.H.R., has consented to speak on “The
Citizenship of the Young Man” at the anniversary cele-
bration of the Melbourne Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion, in the Melbourne Town Hall, on Thursday evening,
June 22.—Argus, 10/6/’O5.
“ My dear young friends, how pleased I am
To see you here to-night!
I know how much you all hate sham —
I know you know I can’t talk “ flam ”
And never utter “ skite.”
You know with virtues you are reekin’,”
Said Alfred Deakin.
“ You are the backbone of the nation,
You follow after right;
Without your good Association —
Your meekness and mild resignation—
The State would come to sheer a-hem !-ation ;
You are its Guidin’ Light—
If you understand my way of speakin’,”
Said Alfred Deakin.
“ Rum and beer, in scorn you hold them.
Ah, excellent young men !
Your manifold virtues —who has told them ?
Let all the wondering world behold them,
And to its had old bosom fold them !
The model citizen
Is you ! You’re just what we’ve been seekln’,”
Said Alfred Deakin.
Proud indeed am I to address you—
'Tis a pleasing sight!
Boast of the land that’s glad to possess you —
Joy of the parents who pat and caress you—
Typical citizens, bless you, bless you !
You never flirt or fight:
Nobody’s like you from Perth to Pekin,”
Said Alfred Deakin.
“ Shun hypocrisy, girls, and races,
Keep to the path I beg ;
Grow in complacency all your graces—
Never be seen in envious places—
Let religion shine in your faces —
Beam like a new-laid egg.
(And now I’ve done puling your leg,
I’ll go and leave you clappin’ and shriekin’,”)
Said Alfred Deakin.
vie.
O.C. CABOT.
THE
PRODIGAL
FATHER
S I was slowly walk-
ing down
A quiet little street,
All in a quiet country
town,
A boy I chanced to
meet.
Sis freckled face was
bright with cheer.
His voice was raised
in song,
And in his hand a jug
of beer
He blithely bore along.
I said to him : “Mg little lad,
Just tell me this, I pray—
While everybody else looks sad,
Why you should seem so gay l ”
N.S.W.
He did not seem, of me in dread,
Yet clutched his jug of ale.
“ Mother has made a feast," he said,
“ For father's home from gaol."
C.R.


Charles Heidsieck
HEIMS
EXTRA DRY FINEST EXTRA 0?
FAUERES’ PHOSPHATINE
RECEDENCE
OVER
ALL
OTHER
o
o
D
s
FOR
INFANTS
INVALIDS
ALL
CH
STS
grocers
Kjtjet
(Dress
ahields
THE day has long past when DRESS SHIELDS were considered a
de m and X D r RESS SH g TE e r more refined ideals associated with Dress
SITTFT SHI t ELDS as a necessity. If y OU want DRESS
SHIELDS that are a Luxury as well as a Necessity you will ask for-
A Beautiful Complexion, —Your mirror will
reflect your beauty every day after a few applications of
the wonderful skin food “ Valaze.” This marvellous
beautifier feeds the pores and reaches the seat of the
starved tissues, thoroughly cleansing and purifying
them, thereby removing all blemishes, blackheads,
freckles, and gives to the face that clear, transparent
appearance of a healthy child’s. From childhood to old
age we guarantee you a perfect complexion. “Valaze”
is not a greasy substance, but sinks into the skin and
shows no trace except the radiant and fresh complexion ;
guaranteed not to encourage superfluous hairs. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jar, posted 6d. extra. Ask your chemist for
1 Valaze,” and take no substitute, or write to Mdlle H.
Rubenstein, 243 Collins-street, Melbourne. Mention this
paper, and receive illustrated guide to beauty. “ Valaze ”
soap, 2s. (lasts six months); “Valaze” (aromatic) herbs,
3s. 6d. packet; “ Valaze ” skin tonic, cooling and
refreshing, 3s. 6d. bottle; “Valaze” face powder (3
tints), 2s. box. Ask your chemist for VALAZE.*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM. —A pure vegetable
extract. The peculiar process followed in the
manufacture of this important cough mixture
ensures the extraction of all the Balsamic and
active medicinal principles of the plants, roots,
and herbs employed. Its remarkable curative
properties have induced many eminent medical
men to order it with approbation. It may be
safely taken in any stage of chest affections, and,
having a pleasant taste, is readily administered to
children. A dose at bed-time will ensure repose.
For families in the country, distant from a phy-
sician, it is invaluable, as, by its early use, many a
severe chest attack may be warded off. Children
are peculiarly susceptible to its gentle influence.
Get Arnold’s Balsam. All the best chemists and
stores throughout the States sell Arnold’s Balsam.
It has the largest sale of any cough mixture.*
The Queen’s Face Food as used by the English
Royal Family and other Royal personages in Europe.
Madam Olga, having decided to place the cream on the
Australian market, has opened Massage Boudoirs, where
the proper use of this Face Food is taught, and where the
cream can be obtained. The Queen’s Face Food eradicates
blackheads, whether caused by use of inferior cream.
Face and neck a speciality. Madame Margot, certificated
Masseuse, from London, may be consulted free. Address :
Top floor. Government Savings Bank Chambers, Moore-
street, City. Obtainable at Brothwood, chemist, King-
street, Sydney.*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
hkg
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ Sydney, June 20, 1905.
My Dear Arini.—
If I were sure that the weather liked to see its
name m print, I would write an atmospheric par.
which would be a swarm of golden adjectives. So
faultless are the days, so llorentine the nights,
that the very conscientious ones amongst us don’t
quite like taking all this weather for nothing.
We feel that we owe at least 2d. for it. A place
■ ?£ e you may £ et a su P er b view of the weather
is Westmead, beyond Parramatta. Long green
heaving paddocks, trees, rose-gardens, and wide-
eyed kine, and miles and miles of weather. Home
for Destitute Boys is at Westmead. Last week
a large party, which was to include Commandant
Cordon, went up there to do some inspecting.
Certain Manst Brothers have charge of the Home,
and some 95 boys are there. Those over thirteen
attend school during the mornings and work at
trades the other half day. They are trained to
grow things, which is good for the boys; and
tailoring, broom-making, boot-making and print-
ing are taught and the goods sold, which is a good
thing for Australia. Home is not subsidised by
Government, and gets along by its own efforts and
by private charity. Recently its annual ball
occurred successfully. Mrs. F. B. Freehill and the
hon. organising secs., Messrs. H. G. Quinlan and
C. C . Hepburn, are to be congratulated on the
success of the tableaux “ Song of the Trades,” the
words of the song written by Roderic Quinn.
Talking of charity balls, the Fresh Air League’s
always a wed-managed affair, realised some
C2OO, and St. Vincent’s about £360. The dance
up by the Mayoress of Mosman, in aid of the
Childrens Hospital, brought £l2O to the fund.
On Aug. Ist Mrs. Allan Taylor, Mayoress of
Sydney, will give a ball —fancy-dress and other-
wise m aid of the Children’s Hospital. The
generous giver will defray all expenses of hall,
lghting, supper, etc., and the ss. paid for each
ticket will thus go in full to prop up an institution
which calls for support at the top of its voice.
Sydney artists have sworn by all the primary
colors that their projected ball is going to be the
most sportive thing of its kind ever set rolling.
ij of jT? livin S> moving pictures will be The
Haunted Czar. Conspirators will dog the poten-
tate all over the ball-room, making sensational
attempts on his life. Finally they will succeed in
blowing him (and themselves) up, and will die
s °me immortal phrase, as for instance:
i amt on, boys—this is our last brush.” Large
tubes of paint will be represented by tall men
and half tubes by short ones. “Flake white”
will be a giant. After supper, “ when all the
St™, people have left,” and when the confetti
w ?f} * s Pod the dancing, masks and dominoes
wull be donned by the flexible ones who
remain, and the carnival will start. It
has an attractive sound. The frolic will be
given in conjunction with the Woollahra ladies in
aid of the Children’s Hospital. Mrs. Paul, one of
the artists, is hon. sec.
Literary man wants to buy or borrow old love
letters no names used.” An advt. to that effect
recently appeared in S.M. Herald. What a
ke e n desme there is to know how the other fellow
and fellowess told one another of the emotion that
once boiled at the end of the pen ! And as one
reads the faded inky trail of that emotion how
dead it all seems—like cold tea found unexpectedly
on a mantel-shelf. One of the few series of love
letters of famous persons that can stand the test
are those of Abelard and Heloise. And possibly
the hallowing effect of time has something to do
with the fact that one reads them with reverence
instead of with laughter. Again perhaps they
have been re-written and improved. The
love-letters of Juliette (I forget the lady’s
surname), the mistress of Victor Hugo, now
on the literary market, simply exude an
intense, overmastering and jealous love. But one
teels rather sorry for Victor, so insistent is the
lady that she must have every spare minute of his
time. He must have felt that he hadn’t a chance
to do his hair. But dreary as old love-letters may
,e > the novel that sells and circulates with the
greatest rapidity is the well told love-story.
Letters may tell their writers’ story with genuine
truth and passion, but, curiously enough, the
localisation and identification seem to destroy the
romance. And probably if Heloise’s letters had
been read in a breach of promise case, the Jud°-e
who came to court in an ox-wagon would have
made bad jokes about them just like the
heavy humorist on the bench to-day. A love
letter, written on clay about 2200 b.c., has
just been discovered in Chaldea—the place that
Abraham felt he had no further use for. It
very like what might be written in Sydney a.d.
r j ’> r , lover ex P r esses intense anxiety for his
"wys health (her name signifies “little ewe”)
and begs her to come soon (to Babylon) and make
h im _ happy. Lovers, ancient and modern, seem
tond of sheep in some form. In Sydney push
society a girl is often alluded to kindly as mutton.
One of the showy, beautifully-dressed girls who
act the English governesses in “The Cingalee”
fell on the stage stairs one Saturday night in that
w “d, carnivalish scene where they drive Doran
with ribbon reins. Her feet slipped from under
her and jerked upward, and she seemed to arrive
on the back of her neck. It looked an ugly con*
cussion, but the audience didn’t wait to learn if
the girl’s back or neck were broken. It just
screamed with mirth. A cascade of white lace
frills and shapely, black-hosed knees, when in-
voluntarily exhibited, is so funny that it turns a
smart assemblage into a mob.
“When in doubt write about hats ” was the
motto of a one-time acquaintance of mine who
ran a society column. She was a woman of ideas,
and lived in theoretical pursuit of the Perfect
Hat. And she pursued it, as a general rule, in an
eighteenpenny straw that had been handed down
to her by a remote ancestor—it looked as if it had
been handed down from a tree at a time when
ancestors lived up in leafy haunts. In dull
seasons she imagined hats; later on she described
the hats of her dreams as confections she had
seen walking down the street, and they filled
women with envy, and made them fly round the
town looking for the article which was only a
vision. She had a theory, especially in
elopement and divorce cases, that hats
influenced character for good or evil. For
example, in one instance the headgear of
the adventuress consisted of languorous, lovely
things, the colors tender yet bright, with a dash
of flaming red at the side and an aberration in the
shape of the brim. I tried on a hat of that kind, and
felt instantly a desire to be a harem, or to forge
the name of Bland Holt’s leading hero for two
millions. In the same ease the hat of the wronged
wife suggested a big, cinder-colored mushroom
shading a walnut. I tried on a similar toadstool,
whereupon I felt myself projected into a drying-
ground, with a spare clothes-peg in my mouth,
hanging out clothes to dry, and I felt that my
sphere was to make a four-roomed house miserable
u stead y eeltivation of all the virtues which cause
the domestic cat to run up the chimney when it
sees you coming.
This psychologist knew so much about her
favorite subject that no end of advice about com-
mencing business as a hat expert came to her.
At last a rich old gentleman who breathed ster-
torously, and who had a facade to his figure and
a beautiful plate-glass expanse of shops to be let,
came in person and offered to start her as a mil-
liner. She was wearing her most bashed and most
handed-down sailor hat, and she said “ Ugh !”, to
the fa§aded-gentleman’s proposal. “I despise
any hat that . costs over two shillings and isn’t
plain straw with a black ribbon round it. I know
about as much of the fashioning and trimming of
the fashionable hat as you know of starvation."
Ihen she went on writing intimately of the style
and intellectual significance of the new five-guinea
models.
Osborne clans have possession of Sydney these
days. They streamed in last week to see their
relative, Mr. James Osborne, play Beaucaire.
Iwo rows of the Royal dress circle were Cur-
randooleyed, and lesser relatives by marriage
had a large reserve in the stalls. As for Sydney
Society—you wouldn’t have found any Pointer or
Kose Bayleaf under 17 in her home on Saturday
night. Curiosity to see how “Jimmie” would
play the Frenchman had brought them all, in-
cluding the Northcotes, into the Royal. Whole
Osborne species have great admiration for the
beautiful American who has become “Mrs.
Jimmie.” Before starting the July season in
Adelaide she and he and brother Norman are
going up to spend a few days at their future home,
thirty miles from Currandooley. House is only a
little cottage, and to hear Maud say “I’m going
to do the cooking,” sounds like an angel threaten-
ing to boil an egg in her halo.
It is said that Lord Jersey’s proposed visit to
bydney at the end of the year is a preliminary
canter for, the . post of Governor-General. Lord
-Northcote’s private business will require him in
England early in 1906, and Jersey, it is assumed,
comes out to take the measurements of the billet and
see how it will fit him.
„rn, have received an indignant letter signed merely
Ihirty-Second Degree Mason,” in which the
sender says things about another thirty-second
de r o, r ee Mason in reference to the Masonic ball.
ihirty-becond Degree Mason” conceals his
identity behind a typewriter and gives no address,
but he asserts that he is one of the ball committee
and he violently calls the other thirty-second-degree
Mason a bagman. I am informed, through
the telephone, that there are 33 degrees of
Masonry and that there is no 33rd man in Aus-
tralia. King Edward, I have heard, is a thirty-
thirder, and lives at a Masonic height which gives
him a fearful cold when he is up, while the drop
would be fatal if he let go and came down. It has
also been explained to me, on bad authority, that
when kings gallop across the ceiling on the goat
while being initiated, the goat is chloroformed to
keep it quiet. Humbler people ride it in the wild
state.
Dr. Norman Y. Pockley, of Sydney, was
married on May 31st, at Morpeth, to Miss Flor-
ence May Waddy, elder daughter of Lieut.-
Goione l Waddy and grand-daughter of Colonel
Waddy, C. 8., of the 50th Regiment—known in
the army as “the dirty half-hundred,” from the
dingy color of the regimental facings. The 50th
Victoria Barracks, Paddington, in
1867, and left in 1870. The bridegroom is the son
of Captain Pockley, an old St. Leonards resident,
and a well-known marine surveyor in his time
Ihe ancient mariner’s sons all went in for medi-
cine or dentistry.
There died recently, at Southsea, England,
Mary Isabella second daughter of the late James
IN orton, of Elswick, near Sydney. Mr. Norton
was admitted a solicitor and barrister of New
South Wales m 1822. The lady was born in 1829,
in Gastlereagh-street, Sydney, and was sister of
Mr. James Norton, M.L.C., now the oldest solici-
“r.™ the roll (he began to solicit as far back as
lo4o).
Arthur Adams was entertained by a few of our
artists at a funny supper on Saturday night.
Really interesting part of the entertainment
was the improvised orchestra. Fred Leist
turned up with an extraordinary instrument—
a kerosene tin (all there except the oil)
in which a broom-handle had been firmly fixed,
f rom top of handle was stretched one piano wire
over a wad of paper and a cork. If Signor Hazon
heard the music Leist bowed out of that eccen-
tricity he d want it for the Amiateur Orchestral,
bid Long, too, got pretty music out of an inven-
tion of his the thigh-bone of one of the Old
Masters of Australian painting.
A recent Anglo-Australian wedding in London
was that of Colonel H. C. Money and Mrs. Cour-
tenay Thompson, of S.A. The Colonel’s two
grandfathers were Admiral Halstead and the Earl
of Exmouth, and the present Exmouth is his
cousin. _ The lady is the daughter of Mr. Francis
L. Davis, of S.A., and niece of Mr. and Mrs. J.
Whear Roberts, of Sydney.
Another recent marriage in London was that of
Mrs. Fleming, once of Sydney, to a Major
Cummings.
A gathering of city missioners in Sydney has
drawn attention to a Ballarat system of Christian
laundry work which benefits the washers, not
the institution where Christian washing is taken
in. They get paid ordinary washing wages,
and, furthermore, divide the profits pro rata,
according to the number of days they have
worked. This gives them a better chance of
feeling good than is offered to the Marthas
and Magdalenes who have to toil eternally at
the charity tub in consideration of bare board
and lodging.
The long glove is worrying its wearer. When
she sits down to knife and fork she slips the glove
hand off and rolls it up into a lump on her wrist.
An inartistic sight. So someone wants someone
else to invent a glove the hand of which will fasten
on, “ or something,” to the rest of the long article.
In other words, the ideal glove is to be in two
pieces—a long funnel and a hand.
Loungers that infest the street corners have got a
nickname —the “Dipper ’’—for the girl who dresses
in a style that she thinks is the apex of fashion—
her figure and the cut of her garments making for
a leaning-tower-of-Pisa effect. “ Here’s another
Dipper,” I heard, and along came a nice-looking
ballet girl. She wore a short grey tweed skirt,
longer in front than at the back, a white silk
blouse with a grey kid belt, its buckle pulled well
down. The skirt was padded at the back below
the waist-line, accentuating the canting forward of
the body. Her hat lurched well over her eyes,
and her hair was brushed up from the back and
shot out over her forehead. Very high heels and
(possibly) the kind of corset that makes its wearer
oblique completed a very sad phase of girl. As
each high heel struck the pavement the shock
perceptibly jarred the obliquity’s spine.
Last item of the good time in Sydney of Mrs.
and Miss Seddon was their witnessing the “Tom
Moore” of Andrew Mack. They left for their
Tussock Land on Sunday morning, by the Ayr-
shire.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent :
The Talbottles have been putting in a dreary
term of hospital, gaol, and asylum viewing. That
seems to be preferred to j unketing with Society;
and yet, I believe, many society folk are quite
respectable. They are not all Too-raketty.
“ The latest news of Miss Delia Mason, the sly
and softly-insinuating charmer of Edwardes’
Gaiety ranks, associates her name closely with
that of a lofty Sydney johnnie. He has been
devoted at enthusiastic periods ever since the fair
Delia and he re-met in the Fog, after the Austra-
lian tour. The Farkoa engagement never existed.
The story probably arose from Maurice’s way of
biting Miss Mason’s neck, and that forward
Frenchman’s gush to interviewers that he loves
his stage kisses as well as any other.
Over a thousand fancy selected hoppers were
J®* I®® B6 at the Pleasances’ Juvenile hall, last
Thursday. Gorgeous decorations and illumina-
tions galore provided a set-off to the twinkling
scene. The grand parade of aldermen, showing
fatted calves and prodigal stomachs, was a foolish
performance. Town Clerk Clayton, stepping out
like a well-drilled bantam, took the lead at a
funeral pace, lengthening the foolishness no end.
lhe tail of the procession, as a grand climax, in-
troduced the hostly pair (himself in vestment and
brass chains) and the dais contingent—the
same old contingent of elderly shoulders,
diamond stars and silken trail. In the ab-
sence of Yice-Regals, Premier Bent waddled
up. The bill of fare for excited galleryites
was quite an entertaining one. Several old and
new measures—the old making for dream-move-
ment, the new for a sort of clock-tick-quick-beat
hwistle—' were gone through under the sharp eyes
of Mrs. W. Green and her daughter. There
wasn’t a hitch or a sneeze from start to finish
of the minuet. A cotillon des Jleurs and a
Polonaise march provided a fine spectacle.
. The nipper to take the bun at this ball was a
mite of four in a white spikey-frilled muslin frock
reaching to her shoes, and topped by a white
poke-bonnet. She was Little Miss Muffit, and
made early Victoria bob-curtsies to the dais flock.
■ r ° m , s t ar t to finish of the programme she footed
it faultlessly. All the same, the youngster, who is
the young hope of Lieut. J. MacKenzie, ought to
have been in bed. Two dashing Toreador sisters,
who, with flowing russet manes and lovely young
leff s ) led m all the show measures, are the
daughters of solicitor Evans. An olive sprig of
art-decorator Patterson took the floor as Cale-
donia. Mr. Henry Butler’s two youngsters were
a pair of historic personages, with knightly armor
and painted chiffons.
‘ Compliments of a lavish order have been
shovelled along to Mrs. W. Green and her daugh-
ter for running the gorgeous juvenile spree last
week. The most solid praise was from the Mayor
in the form of a three-figured cheque and a song
of thanksgiving.
“Several select souls were bidden by Mr. Laver
to shake the hands of the Hugo Heermanns at
Menzies last Monday. Madame Heermann has
quick, discerning talk. Spanish blood runs in her
vems, and she has theßuenos Ayres taste forclothes.
She declares that the silvery green of Australian
gums was a new delight to her eyes. ‘I have
never heard that wonderful treer-tone attributed
to your gums. What a beauty to go unpro-
claimed ! Oh, I’m going to find out all the
charms by-and-bye of this great place.’ Yet
how many Australians notice the dark silver
leafage of the great old gum ?
“There is an interesting young person travel-
ling With the Heermanns—a Miss Pickersgyll.
(She s very strong on that ‘y ’ in the tail-end of
the name.) She has a highly-accomplished manner
and fine hands. The latter are said to be ex-
tremely musical.
“Society, struck by the grand manner of
Madame Hugo Hermann, rolled up to her hus-
band’s initial bow-flourishing, on Saturday, in
heavy numbers. What an asset a showy wife is
to a simple genius who wears whiskers and his
mane clipped ! Since Melba’s ovation there has
been nothing like the excitement occasioned among
the musical by this artist of the unimpressive
appearance and emotionless manner. It isn’t
that he is intensely and passionately calm. He
simply makes music without fuss. Divine music,
almost! Still, the women were not satisfied.
They were irritated at the fiddler’s German
phlegm. What is the use of a genius who doesn’t
switch his coat-tails over the music-sheets, or
angrily roll his eyes at the grey atmosphere, or
comb his mane with impatient fingers, or fling
himself on and off the platform ?
“Lady Mary Sackville, a chum of Tasmanian
Governor Strickland’s wife, descended almost un-
noticed upon Melbourne on Thursday. The ever-
vigilant dowager of Cliveden bore her off uncom-
plainingly to the Mayoral Fancy Hop that night,
which marked the visitor’s one public appearance.
Her black garb and her smoothed-back brown hair
and very still manner went unregarded in the
general fuss of the show. On Saturday Mary set
off again with her maid for Tasmania. Coogee
passengers marvelled at the small amount of tra-
velling personal effects of the thoughtful tripper.
Few feminines in the forties can manage to keep
up any sort of an appearance on less than a ton of
movable furniture. Perhaps a handle to one’s
name is a partial substitute for clothes. On the
other hand, an extra amount of common sense
may negative a variety of apparel, at once trouble-
some and costly.
“ A St. Kilda girl’s cards for an afternoon
swarm bore in the corner, ‘Teaand Giggles.’ This
is an improvement on the notion of the frisky
dame who wrote ‘ Men ’ at the corner of her party
pasteboards.
“ A set of moneyed speculators about the local
Stock Exchange are in glee over the break-up of
a threatened alliance between one of their number
and a chorus chick. Just as things looked as if
they were going to drift into matrimony, one male
friend after another prevailed on the man to hesi-
tate before such folly (?). He hesitated each time,
and all these combined hesitations made a stop-
page.
“Ship-board impressions of Miss Nance O’Neil
all agree as to her sociable spurts and large silent
lapses. A man tells me that the actress reminded
him, when lounging on deck through a warmish
noon, of a large, beautiful kitten—a very large
kitten—in a quiet period of tropical doze. She
was so smooth and sleek and excessively indolent.
“The Yank methods of tear-raising differ.
Tittell Brune manifests her passionate frenzy by
directing her eyes and her language to heaven
and dragging handfuls of hair back from her
tragic brow. That spells wholesale abandon of
self. (Tossing one’s hair is a frightfully frenzied
act in woman’s eyes.) Nance O’Neil takes a
central position on the stage, turns her back to the
lights and stretches her long arms till they are as
rigid as two rails, and you almost expect to see a
train run along them. That Sandow-like opera-
tion twice moved Saturday’s audience to a des-
perate struggle with audible sobs. It was the
Magda method of expressing a despair so supreme
that she wouldn’t care if all her spare clothes were
burned to the ground.
A friend of mine lately shot at Bathurst an
eagle-hawk measuring seven feet four inches from
wing-tip to wing-tip. The bird brought itself
within close range of the enemy through coming
down to seize his toy terrier in its talons. “ A
man who would shoot so huge a bird for trying to
steal so small a dog would kill a horse for steahng
his caterpillar ” was the comment made by another
man on being told of the incident.
(Continued on page 53.)


SKIN SORES.
DR. WILLIAMS PINK PILLS CURE AGONISING ECZEMA.
«* A BARBER shaved me too close with a
J\ dirty razor, and gave me the worst
sample of Eczema my doctor had ever
seen,” said Mr. Joseph Merrix, 43
Stanley-street, off Hyde Park, Sydney. “ The
disease spread from my face all over my body, and
it was two years before I got the poison out of my
blood. I was a terrible sight to look at, and nearly
went mad with the burning itching of it. The
best doctors failed utterly to stop it spreading. A
great skin specialist attended me, but finally it got
so bad that I had to go to the Sydney Hospital.
After six months’ treatment, the Eczema was
worse than ever. After everything else failed,
my brother made me give Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills a fair trial. To my surprise ten boxes drove
all the festering matter out of my blood. The
sores healed up, and to-day I have a clear, smooth,
healthy skin —thanks to Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People.
“ The doctor told me I got the Eczema from the
barber all fight—but he said my blood must have
been in a bad state to begin with. That’s what
made the Eczema spread so quickly along my
arms, across my body, and down my legs. I wa«
one mass of itching, oozing sores. Every day I
could feel a fresh lot of small, hard pimples push-
ing their way up through the skin. Then the skin
would crack, and the sores would burn and itch
till I was almost crazy. Every inch of my body
was either covered with the dry scales of the old
sores, or there were new sores festering and itch-
ing. I could have torn my flesh to pieces. Some-
times it felt as if something were crawling under
the skin. Often I was ashamed to sit down to
meals in public. I was such a hideous sight. My
face was covered with hard, lumpy cakes of dirty
skin.
“ My legs were especially bad and swelled up
terribly. At last I couldn’t walk. I had to throw
up my billet and take to bed. No one can imagine
how weak I was. There didn’t seem to be an
atom of strength in any muscle. My nerves broke
down and my legs were always twitching. Night
after night I was kept awake. It was a treat to
get an hour’s sleep at a stretch. I got so thin that
my bones were actually coming through my skin.
To make matters worse, a kind of Rheumatism
settled in my joints—and all this time the Eczema
kept spreading.
“ I went to the best skin specialist,” Mr. Merrix
added. “He did everything in his power for me
—but could not cure me. When the treatment
at the Sydney Hospital failed, I gave up hope. I
was so down-hearted that I often prayed for
death. And there’s no doubt I would have died
out of sheer weakness and agony if my brother had
not persuaded me to give Dr. William’s Pink Pills
a fair trial.
“The first two boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills did nothing but give me a wonderful appe-
tite. After the third box my skin didn’t burn and
itch so much, and I picked up heart. Slowly but
surely, I gained in strength and weight. The ter-
rible feeling of weakness left my legs, and the
swelling all went down. I took eight boxes before
all the sores disappeared—and then I took another
two boxes just to make sure that I would be cured
for good. By that time my skin was perfectly
clean and smooth, and I have never had a sign of
Eczema since.”
There could be no greater proof about the power
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills as a blood medicine.
The only possible way to cure Eczema is to sweep
out of the blood all the itching, festering poison
that causes these sores. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
alone can do that because they actually make new
blood. They do just that one thing, but they do
it well. That is the simple scientific reason why
they cure all blood diseases, like anasmia, indiges-
tion, headaches, backache, lumbago, rheumatism,
sciatica, neuralgia, nervousness, St. Vitus’ dance,
asthma, general weakness, and the special ailments
of growing girls and women. Remember, Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills don’t act on the bowels.
They will cure no disease that is not caused by
bad blood. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale
People can be had at all storekeepers, or ordered
by mail from the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. r
Sydney—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d., post
free. Medical advice given free.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
T. H. Bath, the new Colonial Secretary of
Westralia, is now the youngest Minister in the
Commonwealth; he was born at Hill End
(N.S.W.) in 1875.
C. C. Lance, who resigns N.S.W. Com-
mercial Agency in London, has been an engineer
in South Africa, a flour-miller in Victoria, and a
butter and milk expert in N.S.W. He is still
well under 50.
The High Commissionership of Maoriland
definitely goes to W. P. Reeves, who by his ability
and his national sympathies is a notable excep-
tion to the usual run of Stinking Fish Agents-
General in London.
Besides his book on the Arab horse, stern-
faced old Justice Boucaut, of S. Aus., who when
he passed 70 became almost a Draco on the bench,
has a boys’ book in hand, and just about ready for
the printer. But he thinks he’ll stop at those two.
The N.S.W. Government has declared Mr.
T. M. Slattery’s seat in the Legislative Council
“ vacant,” and he has been wiped off the register.
Slattery is employed now in the tailors’ shop at
Darlinghurst gaol and is a model of good
behavior.
W. Uden, Semaphore signalman (S.A.),
just retired on reaching the 70 years limit, has
signalled the arrival and departure of vessels
since ’57. Said that he invariably gave the correct
name of the steamer as soon as he caught sight of
its smoke down the gulf.
Cremorne Point (Sydney Harbor), where the
foreshores titles keep Syd. speculators curious, was
first passed over to the father of one-time Premier
Jack Robertson, as a grant. From the Robert-
sons it passed to the Milsons in 1853, £4OOO being
the purchase-money.
Dr. Nathan Cobb, pathologist of N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, resigns after a sixteen
years’ tenure of office to take up work under the
Stars and Stripes. The Agricultural Bureau at
Washington has long angled for his services, the
latest offer being a post in Manilla at £825 to
begin with.
An individual who got three years at
Invercargill (M.L.) for playing Togo with a
woman’s furniture, was a versatile sort of crimi-
nal : he had convictions for stone-throwing, sacri-
lege, drunkenness, conducting a lottery, consort-
ing with thieves, and bashing a lady. A sort of
Execrable Crichton !
Robert Bell, who was picked up at Nettle
Creek, suffering from senile decay, and taken to
the Ballarat (Vic.) Be-
nevolent Asylum, has
had an interesting ca-
reer. It has been
proved that he had a
university training,
and as a scientist and
linguist was looked up
to by the diggers in
the ’so’s. He owned
and “Edited the first
Chinese newspaper is-
sued in the early days,
and in searching his
hut the Ballarat po-
lice found the old
printing press, toge-
ther with copies of
the ancient journal
vvh.’ .b informed the
Chinese resident how
the world went then.
The model of an
old reaper and
binder was
also disco-
vered, toge-
ther with
numbers of
posters and
“dodgers”
setting forth
Robert Bell’s claim
to a seat in the Legisla-
tive Assembly, which he seems to have unsuccess-
fully contested in the very long ago. Copies of the
letters he wrote and the replies thereto were care-
fully preserved, and made a pile sft. high on the
floor of his dwelling.
The member of the S.A. Legislature who
received the highest percentage of the votes
polled in his district was Labor member Archibald
(Port Adelaide), the proportion being 65'43 per
cent. The member who polled the highest number
of votes was Labor member Coneybeer (Torrens),
vl o received 12,543 votes. Labor leader Price
was a good second with 12,318 in the same district.
These figures show exactly how influential was
the Tory crusade of George Reid in S.A.
THE TRAGIC COMEDIAN.
Mr. Reid, generally, was delivering speeches that
tickled the sentiments of the people, but they were not
going to be frightened by the bogey put before them. —
CHRIS. Watson, at Rockhampton.
GEORGE (as the awful fact dawns upon him that
nobody takes him seriously): “But, gentle-
men, Tm not joking. (Roars of laughter.)
Please don't! It's dead earnest." (Screams
of merriment, and so on.)
The hurried departure of N.S.W. Governor
Rawson threw the Governor’s “work” on Chief -
Justice Darley again. Mr. Darley has been too
ill to attend to his Supreme Court duties, and his
appointment as Governor, under the circum-
stances, advertises the State Governor’s job as a
useless affair which an invalid can attend to in
between his medicine.
“ B.” : Apropos Lorimer Fison’s lift
on to the British Pension List (£l5O a year).
Civil List pensions in England are some-
times deserved, sometimes not. I re-
member a poet who had spent 40 years
writing desolate bosh, and then
Prime Minister Gladstone placed
him on the Civil List. Cham-
berlain and Disraeli both
denouuced the appoint-
ment, and Gladstone’s
explanation gave away
the whole fraud of
the system. He said
he had never read a
line of the poet’s
manufacture, but
that the memorial in
favor of the pension
was signed by the
Deputy - Lieutenant
of the County, by
the Protestant
Bishop, the Catholic
Bishop, and the Pres-
byterian Moderator,
and “although I have
since learned that
none of these ever
read a line of his
verses either, yet I
considered the me-
morial good enough to
go upon.” If Australia
is ever to do anything
in the literary subven-
tion line, it should take
the British Civil List as
a bad example to avoid.
Died recently, at the
age of 84 years, Mrs. Char-
lotte Foot, relict of John
Foot, tanner and currier, who
in the late forties carried on busi-
ness in Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
below Liverpool-street. Mrs. Foot for many years
did business in Market-street as a straw bonnet
cleaner, but as straw bonnets —excepting in the
Salvarmy—have long since gone out of fashion,
the industry, like the old worker, is dead. Sixty
years ago there were 29 straw bonnet makers in
Sydney. There is not one now. The “Army”
headgear is imported.
J. Zimri Sellar, of Adelaide, who had been
trying for S. Aus. Assembly regularly for about
30 years, during all which time he was the State’s
most active politician, had never been inside Par-
liament House until after he was elected the other
day. He announced long back that he would never
go till he went as a member, and he kept his word,
though he had to wait till he was 74 before he
could walk up the marble steps.
A NATURAL FINANCIER.
HUSBAND: "I’m glad to see you have
kept the household expenses down this time.”
H ER: “ Yes, you said you were a bit short, so I
asked the tradesmen not to send their bills in
till next month.”
Gilbert Probyn Smith, reported dead in
Melbourne at the age of 52, was in the Indian
Mutiny as an infant. He was in a state of
mutiny against things in general most of his time
after, but between his alarms and incursions he
picked up great quantities of general information,
and he absorbed languages till he held so many
that there wasn’t space in him for even one more
dialect. His father was a major in the Engineers.
“G.P.5.,” as he used to sign himself, did much
work, mostly of the sensational kind, on the Aus-
tralian daily press.
SEEING HIM THROUGH.
THE MARRIED ONE : “ I shay, ole fler, I'm
gettin’ clooced frighten’, yer know. My wifsh
gorra devilish temper.”
THE SINGLE ONE (cheerily). “ Jush you leave it
all ter me, old fler. I'll tell her (hie) I’ll
tell her you've been out with me.”
The Royal Commission which opened New
South Wales Parliament was composed of two
Australians and one nearly so. Frank Suttor is
the son of a Bathurst landowner ; John Hughes,
of a George-street (Sydney) grocer; and W. J.
Trickett, who was born at Gibraltar, son of an
official in the Sydney Mint.
A. A. P. Tighe, who died recently at
Glebe Point, Sydney, aged 7b, was for 75 years an
Australian. For a time he was in political life,
and for 27 days in 1868 was Postmaster-General of
James Martin’s Ministry. Docker had been
P.M.G., but on Parlies’ resignation as Chief
Secretary, Docker was promoted, and Tighe came
in.
About a pioneer :
An interesting identity of the Richmond River has just
gone under —pioneer George Edward Cole. In 1859 (when
myalls dogged the traveller) he took 1000 head of bul-
locks from the Richmond to the Murrumbidgee, bis fee
being £1 per head. The trip occupied about four months.
In 1861, while managing Bonalbo station (R.R.), he
married Christina Duncan, of Woodenbung (().), under
unique circumstances. Preparations had been made for
the wedding at Unumgar, but a difficulty cropped up
when the clergyman (Rev. J. VV. Wilson) arrived from
Ipswich, his license not being valid in N.S.W. So the
whole party set out on the 15-mile ride to the border, the
last three miles along the mailman’s track, up the steep,
scrubby side of Mount Lindsay. Under the lofty plateau
that crowns the mount, the cavalcade dismounted, and,
hitching their horses to the bushes, assembled on a little
clear spot by the scrub, and the ceremony began. When
it was about half through, the party found a horde of
leeches swarming up its collective leg. The rest of the
service was rushed through ; then the party dispersed
round the corner in two sections, one of which swore and
the other screamed. Cole afterwards became manager
of Bermunda station, near Gladstone, and later (1869)
took up (carrying on the Grafton-Casino line, carriage
being then 20s. and 30s. per cwt.
The death of Ratu Lala, chief of the
Thakaundrove district, in Fiji, recalls that his
ancestor of 35 years ago, Tui Thakau (often called
“The Cow”), carried on his governmental func-
tions under conditions very different from those
of to-day. Thakau professed the Roman Catholic
religion, but drew the line at abandoning his 50
wives. It was his custom to remove all objection-
able people by the club. At the end of the debate in
the Parliament of the Lau Confederation, in ’7O,
he asked Maafu (the President), in a private con-
versation, to promise that, in the event of his
being assassinated, he (Maafu) would “exterminate
them all.” A large green mound in the centre of
Thakau’s town marked the burial place of 300
women, who were killed that they might accom-
pany a great chief to the spirit world. The ghost
of Ratu Lala will have to make the journey alone.
Crown Solicitor J. M. Stuart, of S. Aus-
tralia, retires at the end of June. He
was 41 when he gained admission to
the Bar, and had previously tried the
banking and school-teaching profes-
sions as a means of livelihood. Though
personally popular with law clerks, he
was nick-named “Necessity,” because “Ne-
cessity knows no law.” Once he was part-
ner with ex-Justice Boucaut. 0. J. Dash-
wood, who succeeds him, was a partner with
ex-Justice Bundey.
Frank VVyburn, the Melbourne solicitor
who suicided in the scrub near Warrnambool,
might have been one of the leading caricaturists
of Australia had he followed the game up.
Wyburn was the son of one of the oldest Mel-
bourne lawyers, and was educated at Heidelberg
University, Germany, with artist Rupert Bunny.
He seconded the latter in several of his duels, in
which he sustained numerous honorable slits about
the head. Five years ago, Wyburn’s oldest friend
and schoolboy mate shot himself in the scrub at
Cheltenham, and there is little doubt that the
example had its effect.
Dead, in April, at Bournemouth (Eng.),
aged 80, Charles E. Broadhurst, pioneer squatter
and pearl-sheller. He was a native of England, and
in 1840 came to Victoria, where lie shared a station
with liis elder brother. In the early 60’s he led a
party which took a quantity of stock to the North-
West of Australia—then practically an unknown
land—with a view to sheep-farming and cattle-
raising. He w.as the pioneer of the pearlshell in-
dustry, and is said to have introduced the first
steamer on the Westralian coast. Later on he
leased the Abrolhos Islands, and started the guano
business, which, after he dropped out, was con-
tinued by his son until the prohibition of guano
exports by the Westralian Government.
“ Melb.” writes :
Furnished with a gilt-edged card of entree, I went to
General Booth’s evening reception, in the Town Hall.
At the portal my costly pasteboard had to run the
gauntlet of various Army lackeys. No rouseabout,
bushwhacker, or sundowner would have had the
ghost of a show there. Well, getting upstairs, I was
shown to a luxurious room filled with Melbourne’s
elite, of ladies and gentlemen and the third
sex, for seemingly all the clergy were there, from
Archdeacon Hindley, Presbyterian Reverends Marshall
and Rentoul, Wesleyan Rev. Edgar, Baptist Rev. Carey,
and Muggletonian Rev. Muffinworry downwards.
With journalistic instinct, I wanted to press inside,
expecting that Booth was engaged there in personal con-
flict w'ith the devil, and that I might be too late to see
the third round, but I couldn’t squeeze in. A heavy Army
dignitary relieved my anxiety, for, with a wave of his
hand, he pointed to a room where Mayor Pleasance enter-
tains worldlings with lemonade. “ The General is there.”
Yes, he was there, with Pleasance, and only one or two
other gold-tops. What a luxury to have the clergy at
his feet, humbly fawning till he should deign to beam.
How this conversion? Alone he did it —I refer to King
Edward. So the General sauntered easily along, giving
directions to his clerical under-strappers. 1 could not
help noticing the gallant courtesy of the grand old chap
to the ladies. He can make them happy for life with one
gleam of his cockatoo eye.
W. N. WILLIS.
Photo, by Ne[?] Sydney
Dr. Russell, who w.is superintendent of
the Adelaide Hospital duriujthegre.it row that
happened a few years ago, when all the local
doctors struck, died a few days back, aged only
35 Adelaide Medical School always looked on
Russell as about its brightest star, and these days
(he was a crack lacrosse player) he would have run
away with a Rhodes scholarship. But he overdid
things, and snuffed out with distressing sudden-
ness.


Cailler’s
Swiss Milk
Chocolate
PRIZE COMPETITION
FREE
WATCHES
for
Everybody.
TnnT i at Gold Watches Worth 15 Guineas each.
200 Radies Keyless Corsage Watches. 72 Gent’s Keyless Lever
Watches, going 8 days. SEND YOUR ADDRESS on a
PETITION f ° r FUI<I< PARTICUI^ARS of the above COM-
GAILLER’S
Mutual Life Building,
Martin Place,
SYDNEY
WIRE CLOTH WEAVERS.
MAKERS OF ALL
KINDS OF WOVE
WIRE In Steel, Iron, Gal-
vanised, Copper, & Brass.
hkg
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF HEAVY WIRE CLOTH
WE HAVE THE BEST MEN
and LATEST MACHINERY.
We would be pleased to get in communication with those interested in WIRE CLOTH.
We will be found Quick, Civil, Obliging and Cheap.
EASTWAY BROTHERS, 409 & 411 George St., Sydney
Factories: 533 A George St., and Albion Lane. P.O. Box 858. Telephone 2075.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
TOO LIBERAL.
THE BENT (dreaminy of beer): “ Would you give a pore sufferin'
feller creature a drink, lady?”
THE LADY (effusively): “ Bless my soul, yes. You can hare a
wash if you like."
“ Dico ” : Old Murphy was driving his
load of milk up the hill to the creamery the other
morning, when suddenly the harness gave way,
the shafts shot sky-ward, and Murphy landed on
the road. Before I reached him he was up,
hauling frantically at the shafts to right the cart,
together we restored it to a horizontal position,
arid then looked to Murphy’s injuries. There was
bad gravel-rash, and one knee was so hurt that he
could hardly stand. Leaving the horse and cart
on the road, I helped Murphy, leaning heavily on
my shoulder, to his house. Sighting Murphy
junior, a hulking yokel of 18 or so, I shouted for
him to come and assist. He lumbered heavily up,
and blurted at dad, “ Didjer spill any milk?”
We went on to the house and met the “missus ”
Murphy looked so bad, with his bleeding face and
lame leg, that I started to reassure her ; but there
was no need on the old man’s account. Her first
scared wad was, “Where’s the milk?” Then
I left, an 1 Murphy was escorted inside with
excited queries re the milk sounding in each ear
“ Old Chum ” :
Apropos the bottles or tanks on Cockatoo Island (not
Garden Island, as “ Alee Zander ” has it in B. 8/6/’O5).
In 1867 a notorious scoundrel, calling’ himself Owen
Suffolk, who scribbled poetry, and who had been in
most of the chief gaols of Australia, sold his reminis-
cences to a Melbourne journal. He had spent some time
on “ Cockatoo ” in the late 40’s or early 50’s, and for
some breach of regulations, he says, he was “conveyed
to the underground cells (damp, dark places) known on
the island as ‘The Bottles.’” He was kept in the
“bottles” three weeks awaiting trial, etc. In reply to
Suffolk, J. F. Peers, late medical officer, Cockatoo,
wrote under date Aug., 1867, to explain that the term
“bottles” was used by the prisoners at Cockatoo in
reference to the cells hewn out of the solid rock. “No
prisoner,” said the doctor, “to my certain knowledge
has, since ISSO, been ‘ locked up ’ in the siloes, and
1 am equally certain that none were ‘ locked down ’
before that period. Some years ago several men lost
their lives cleaning out the siloes, from the poisonous
gas at the bottom, so it is not likely men would be put in
such a place.” A person who was living on the island at
the time wrote thus, some years ago: “Cut out of the
solid sandstone, on the highest part of Cockatoo, are a
number of large siloes, shaped like a huge bottle. These
"’ere made after a great drought, when the colors had
suffered very severely from lack of grain. These were
t > prevent such a famine occurring again, and they were
filled with immense quantities of grain, only to be used in
time of necessity. After remaining sealed for some years
one of them was opened, when, to every one’s great sur-
prise, the contents were found to be mouldy, the damp
having soaked through the porous sandstone. The others
were immediately examined, and found to be in the same
state, and useless for human consumption. During
the process of getting the mouldy grjjn out, one silo had
been partially emptied and temporarily covered. It was
a good depth down, and when the gang came, one of the
men, without waiting for a ladder, jumped down, only to
fall back overpowered by foul air. Another man, without
reckoning the risk, jumped down to help him, only to be
overcome in a similar fashion. There were at one time no
less than 13 men lying insensible in the silo. When they
were brought out, three were found to be dead. The
man who was the primary cause of the disaster recovered
though he had been in longer than anyone else. One of
those who died in the attempt at rescue was to have left
the island a free man in two days.” “ Captain Cuttle,”
writing in 1867, gave the version I gave in B. (l/6/’O5),
also the statement that Governor Gipps got rapped over
the knuckles. Gipps created the siloes, and hoped that
the farmers would follow his example. Only recently a
huge silo at the rear of the “ Rangers ” —the old home of
the Bloxsomes at Mosman—was filled in. The “ Rangers ”
house was built about the time that Gipps was construct-
ing his siloes on Cockatoo Island.
* * * *
“Harry S.” : In the S.E. of S. Australia,
years ago, the natives were much given to killing
shepherds and carrying off sheep, and when they
had got more sheep than they could manage to eat in
a few days, they used to “hobble” the unfortunate
animals by either twisting the limbs out of joint
or breaking them outright. Numbers so maimed
used to be found by the pursuing whites.
“ San Remo : ” Before
snakes are taken off the
menu, I would like to know
if any Australian snakes
possess much contractive
power, and if any of our
large snakes crush their prey
in their coils. I have found
as many as three possums
in a 15ft. carpet-snake, but
none of them showed any
sign of crushing. Out stalk-
ing ducks, once, near a water-
hole, a frog's croak made me
look down, and there between
my left hand and knee was
a small brown snake, coiled
in a circle with a frog in his
mouth. Hadn’t time to in-
vestigate —one barrel going
to the ducks and one to the
snake —but it struck me after-
wards that the snake was
crushing the frog prepara-
tory to gorging him. By-che-
way, a 17ft. carpet snake
ought to squeeze a man a
bit if he got around him ;
but the “carpet” is such an
inoffensive reptile that a
boy of 12 can settle him
with a waddy. I’ve read,
however, that a 15ft. boa
can squeeze a man to death,
and that a 40-footer c< n
take a horse or a bullock.
Wouldn’t be a bad idea to
import some boas to Aus-
tralia. It’s too beastlv safe
travelling throw h our bush ;
which accounts largely for
our tired feeling. We haven’t
enough to keep us on the
jump. A few lions, tigers,
and boas judiciously dis-
tributed over the continent
would make the population
sit up. And if a boa
struck George Keid on tour
—well, he wouldn’t be missed
(I mean George',
The Bog-a-Duck Debating Society held a
meeting recently; subject for debate, “Does
philanthropy pay?” Members grew hot upon
the subject; but all conducted themselves peace-
ably until a land-agent got up to argue for the
noes. Then a bankrupt selector arose and wrung
the speaker’s nose violently, and inquired : “ You
dashed philanthropist ! If you charge people
who are bankrupt and starving £OOO for getting
the Land Boards to do things that should have
been done, that ought to be done, and that will
have to be done, what do you charge Fatman for
putting through things that ought not to be done ? ”
Then a heavy boot struck the land-agent upon bis
terminus, and the meeting broke up into a dis-
orderly heap, from the bottom of which the
agent s muffled voice was heard threatening to
drag Ins assailant through all the courts in the
country, and knock him out with an ingeniously-
constructed bill of costs.
MORE WEIGHT WANTED.
BEATEN TEAM : “ Huh! Ourses crowd'll show yous how to play football next Saterdce. We'll
have some condition then; we wasn’t in form ter-day.”
“Elmore” : Be horse-endurance (“ H.Gr.,”
B. 11/5/’O5). The horse has been known to live
25 days with no food, but plenty of water ; with-
out food or water, about 15 days ; and with plenty
of food but no water, four to six days, according
to weather.
* * * ♦
“B.”: Up in Central Queensland I
recently struck the final tail-end of the dugong-
fifiling industry. An ancient man on a lonely
peninsula represented the last of the fishers. His
equipment was a couj>le of nets of thin rope, Bin.
mesh, and 130 yards long. These are sunk to a
depth of about 20 feet, and in due course a female
dugong comes along with her calf, browsing
upon the seaweed on the ocean floor.
She blunders into the net, her head going
into the mesh and, half frightened, she
turns to warn the calf, but is too late. She
is caught in another loop of the net, and be-
comes angry, but is now so entangled that
her immense weight and strength are of no
avail. This queer creature —weighing
12001 b. to 14001 b.—is now helpless. The
ancient fisherman hauls up his prey, and
on getting her to the surface he puts a
bullet into her. The calf pathetically
refuses to leave its mother’s body, and
finally falls a victim to the nearest shark.
The shark is a deadly enemy of the dugong,
and the bane of the poor old man’s exist-
ence. “Just as I gets ’em up, a shark
will, with one snap, bite the head clean
off of’em.” The dugong and the manatee
are the only surviving representatives of the
order Sirenia, the allusion in the name to
the classic Sirens being due to the fact that,
as the females of these creatures have two
breasts in the human position, it is sup-
posed that the occasional sight of them,
partly raised out of the water, was re-
sponsible for the mermaid idea. The dugong
rises to the surface to breathe with a
peculiar, graceful sweep, holding its young
under its flipper. The hide, which is half
an inch thick, accounts for about 2cwt. of
the creature’s weight; it is covered with a
scanty growth of bristles, and reeks with
oil, taking six months to dry, even in the
sun. It is worth 30s. in the open market.
The flesh is boiled down for the oil, which is worth
another 3Js. to the old man—or else it is corned.
It is not unlike beef in flavor ; indeed the animal,
which is a purely vegetable feeder, has stroi g
general affinities with the terrestrial herbivora.
* * * *
“Jay Hann ” : In all the laughing-jack
pars haven’t seen any reference to his relative,
the Derwent. This bird gets in a lot of deadly
work on the quiet. Whenever he hears a chorus
of small birds he sneaks up, and joins in. After
leading the choir for a while he makes a rapid
dive at the nearest son. ster, and knocks the top-
note out of h:'m rig-1 t tin re.
“San Remo”: “Falder” (B. l/6/’O5)
writes a good sketch about bullock-driving. But
has “Falder” ever witnessed that queer and un-
common sight- a bolting team of bullocks, waggon
and all ? In Rockhampton, some years ago, a
team of 12 bullocks, drawing an empty waggon,
lumbered in a frenzy down William-street. Turn-
ing a cprner, the outfit capsized, and bullocky,
overhauling the show, soothed the menagerie. A
more grotesque sight 1 have never w.tnessed than
Bally and his brother Poley cantering along and
trying to look furious. What scared them I nevei
found out. Dynamite would fail to scare the
average bullock team.
AT THE FORTIES' BAIL.
THE M.C.: “ Yer carn’t blime me, Gummy, if
yer don't get no darnces. Why didn't yer
bring a lady o’ yer own?”
GUMMY: “Gam! Yer know bloomin' well she’s
in quo"
“ Gnib ” : The small brown hawk men-
tioned by “0.W.” (B. l/G/’O5) is the dollar-bird,
not the doll-bird. Name comes from a circular
white patch on the under side of the wing, which
patch looks like cash. Said bird is fond of
chickens as well as of gill-birds.
DOWN THE BOGAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down the dusty Nyngan road,
Stumbling' ’neath his heavy load,
Came he to that house accurst,
Where the swagsman slakes his thirst.
Seven loafers smiled in glee ;
But, alas, this stranger, he
Did not wear the mien exalted
Of a man whose thoughts are malted.
“ Have you seen a small, fat, sandy
Man, whose legs are rather bandy ? ”
So he spake, while sad and cheerless
Grew those men, who waited beerless.
“ Seven weeks I’ve followed Ifogan
Down the reaches of the Bogan ;
Holy smokes ! O won’t I grind him
Inter dust, when once I find him 1
“ Went to Bourke in pleasant weather,
There to bust our cheques together.
I had twenty pounds, and he
Handed in a stinkin’ three !
“ Clothes an’ tucker first we bought ;
Then M'Garron’s pub. we sought.
Though ’tis hard to get my maw full,
Hogan’s thirst, I thought, was awful !
“ Eight days later, when T woke,
Dizzy-headed, sore, and broke,
Vanished, scooted, gone was Hogan
Down the reaches of the Bogan !
“ Then I found he’d pawned my swag—
Mortgaged every blooming rag !
With his cheque uncashed, unspent,
Left me there without a cent !
“ When I chance on Patrick Hogan
Somewhere down along the Bogan ”
Here he laughed, tho’ aught but gay
Seemed his mirth—then strolled away.
Seven drunks, with necks a-crane,
Watched him, speck-like, cross the plain
Till he vanished in the glimmer
Of the spectral lakes a-shimmer,
Seeking still with quaint persistence
Ear out, in the hazy distance,
Tidings of a man named Ilogan,
Somewhere down along the Bogan.
X.S.W.
A. P. ROGERS.


Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
Buy Whole Bottles.
RING MAKERS
$
Sell at less than
Wholesale Houses.
We buy the Gems unset.
We buy many of them in the rough.
We cut them in Sydney.
We mount them on the premises.
We set them in our workshops.
NO INTERMEDIATE PROFITS
ANYWHERE. n—,
Choice Pearls and
Diamonds, £5.
Larger, £3.
Choice Whole Pearl
Exquisite Pink Tour-
maline and 8 Lustrous
Diamonds, £8 Ss.
2 Choice Pearls, 1
Special Tourmaline,
2 Diamonds, £5 10s.
A low cost enables cheaper selling-.
Low selling prices mean a larger turn-over.
A large turnover represents more income.
Our prices never exceed those of London.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
ABOUT TIME.
In the future all imported corn-sacks must be of the
regulation weight and strength. —News Item.
COCKY'S WIFE (viciously): “This is the third
I’ve put on this week—-no wear in ’em at all.”
“ Tarltoni ” ; Old Turk had a terrible
temper, and, when his horse jibbed one day about
20 yards from his front gate, he bolted into
the house for a gun, and gave the horse the
benefit of the right barrel. Turk’s magpie
was sitting on the fence, and as Turk
passed through the gate it greeted
him with “ Who are you ?” “By
——, I’ll shoiv you who lam !’’
Slid Turk, and he emptied the
left barrel into the bird. “Y’
ought ta been shot yerself, .
for shooting the neddy,”
said Turk’s cousin when
Turk told him. “See
this moke o’ mine ? He
was a reg’lar cow to jib
till one day I took
’im out fer a load
uv box, an’, cornin’
home, be jibbed with
me right in front,of
the pub. I waited
20 minutes and the
cuss never moved
an inch, so I j am med
a log between the
spokes an’ went an’
had a drink an’ a
smoke, an’ then an-
other drink, an’ so
on, until blowed if I
didn’t ferget all
about the ’orse till
seven nex’ mornin’.
Crawled out an’ tuk
the log outer the
wheels, an’ the old
’un went off the
mark like a race-
’orse, an’ I never ’ad
no trouble with ’im
since. When yer
’orse finds out that
you can jib longer
than ’e can, ’e gets
a kinder respeck f’r ye.”
* * * *
“Dave R.” : Be mouse running into
goanna’s mouth (“Blue Tongue,” B. l/6/’O5).
There was no fascination in the matter. It was
simply a case of knowledge on the “go.’s”part
that, when disturbed, a mouse always runs for the
nearest visible opening. The “go.” also knows
instinctively that almost every rubbish-heap about
a house or camp is inhabited by mice. So he gets
close to a heap and waits, with his mouth open,
like a hollow log or a parliamentary recess, till
something disturbs a mouse ; then he scores.
*** * .
“Chip”; “ N.E.” (B. 95/5/’O5) is all
abroad about the habits of the tree ant. The ant
doesn’t cement leaves together, and the natives
don’t “ pound the whole into a mash.” The nests
are made with leaves drawn together with webs
by the workers, to protect the much larger drones.
It is these that the blacks eat, but not in the
manner he states. A handful of half-dried grass
is set fire to. Before it is burnt the flame is
smothered, and while the embers are red the big
ants are shaken out of the leaf-receptacle on to
them. There is just enough heat to cripple the
ants ; they ar.e then picked up and eaten, and are
really quite equal to sherry and bitters as an
appetiser.
A petition is being signed
in the Beaufort district (Vic.),
urging the Government to
resume, for closer settlement,
48,000 acres of Admiral
Bridges’ Trawalla Estate.
“Haw! those wretched So-
cialists ! ” quoth the doughty
Admiral, “ I’m not afraid of
the beggahs.” The common
reply of the business people,
when urged to sign, is:
“Well, you know, so far as
hoping the estate will be cut
up goes, I’m with you ; but
—er—you know—a man in
business —er —mustn’t quarrel
with his bread and butter,
you know.” Still, a good
many signatures are being
obtained to a petition that will probably be quite
futile. It is said that Bridges’ wool clip was
worth about £25,000 last season.
* » * »
“Periwinkle”: Your friend “ Thurla ”
hums a lot about discovering wild-bees’ nests (B.
25/5/ 05), and buz-z-z-z-z-z-zes more or less eock-
surely as to a black-gin’s find in the cleft of a tree !
Any bushman, not suffering from hay-fever or the
snuffles, can locate a wild-bees’ nest by sense of
smell only—a mile off. Any sane aborigine can
smell the robbers’ store, three miles off, on a warm
day. The smell of honey is the sweetest the bush
can boast. The down business is very picturesque,
but it’s a bit of doodleflap that’s played out. Any
lad around here will take his axe and locate his
treasure-trove, in the timber along the river,
entirely by nose. The wild-bee is an innocent
chap, but not so innocent as those who would
believe “Thurla’s” fairies.
* * * *
“ Sugar Cane ” : With regard to “ N.E.’s ”
statement that the blacks in North Queensland
pound up green ants into a mash and eat it with
relish—that is not the practice of the niggers on
Sully River and thereabouts. They pound up the
green ant all right—they pound him till he is
quite dead—and then they strain off the juice
and drink it, sometimes neat and sometimes with
water. After a heavy bout of Chinese opium-
charcoal the niggers may be seen for days hunting
through the scrubs for green ants. Ant juice
seems to have a soothing effect after a heavy dose
of the Chow’s mixture. It might be worth try-
ing as a pick-me-up after rum. Apart from the
chance of finding a cure for the grog-thirst, there
is the prospect of giving the blessed “primary
producer ” a fresh start, and “ settling him on the
land,” and “ developing the great natural re-
sources,” and so on.
STRICTLY PROFESSIONAL ,
SAIBRY GAMP : “ Oh, things isn't so bad, although
me 'usband did hook it to the West, I’ve
’ad 10 twins, eight singles and a triplet
already, and there’s more to follow,”
“Ham” : Allow me to talk through my
neck to “ Bung ” (8/0/’O5). If he cares to write
me at 31 Queen-street, Melbourne, re that busted
£146 cheque, I shall be pleased to supply him
with the name of the pub that it was ‘ ‘ done in ” at,
and the approximate date. Regarding “ Bung’s”
other statements, the profit on drinks round about
the Echuca and Moama districts is 100 per cent,,
and though “Bung” makes a poor mouth, a few
years ago a local bullocky sold up, started a pub
in Moama (a stone’s throw over the Murray from
Echuca) and did so well that he liquidated a large
debt in a few months, has a big banking account
now, and holds mortgages over several properties.
The bulk of the Echuca beer trade is done by four
hotels, and the balance is split up amongst a
dozen or so no-class shanties which just manage to
hang on. As for that greasy man worth £5, now
sleeping in “Bung’s” bridal chamber, I hope he
took off his boots before going to bed.
“The Prooshan ” : Was engaged
on Jeralie in 75. “ Scotty the Wrinkler ”
was cooking at the home station, Nap
Nap, and drove all hands, including
some niggers, into Maude for a Christ-
mas spree. Sandy Bell, manager of
Nap Nap, invited me to take Christmas
dinner with him. Toothache, however,
got me down in one of the huts. At 3
p.m. on Boxing Day four black revellers
returned, Gilbert, Yarry, and Micky,
and Caroline, his gin. They were all
tight, and Caroline, seated out in the dust
with the others, was urged to sing. On
refusing, Mick pounded her with a great
waddy on the head. Each blow would
have settled a Hackenschmidt. I rushed
out and hunted Micky off, and returned
to the hut to entertain my guest of the
evening, the toothache. In five minutes,
turning on the bunk, I noticed Caroline,
the belabored, Sneak out with my half-
bottle of rum, sent by the manager for
the toothache, and I sprinted a quarter of
a mile into the lignum before I caught her
and recovered the medicine.
“ W. 8.” : To “ Ray ” (B. l/6/’O5).
Mohair goat-breeding has been carried
on for the last four years at Knox’s No.
2 station, between Wyalong and Barrned-
man, and the industry is now in a thriv-
ing condition. Pure angora rams are im-
ported. and mated with common nannies.
Young bucks are selling at good prices,
and the imported animals have become
thoroughly acclimatised, showing that this
distinct is eminently suitable for the
industry.
“ Blue Shamrock ” : Last summer, in the
Rutherglen district (Vic.), snakes were so
numerous that their skins were used for tying up
vines. For this purpose they answered better
than the usual flax or rushes, as they did not
become loose or sag in a high wind. A Scotch-
man made some £5 a week catching them. His
method was to dig a circular hole about 12ft. deep,
and then stand a gum pole about 12in. thick in
the centre. On the top of the pole he fastened a
music box, which he wound up at sundown. It
played Scotch tunes, and the snakes were attracted
for miles around. They gathered at the pit
mouth and became infatuated with the melody, and
finally they rushed at it and fell in. One morning
he found 2000 snakes, and—most astonishing of
all —half of them were already dead. Presumably
they had been trodden to death in the struggle for
front seats close to the orchestra.
* * * *
“ G. 8.” : Concerning mead, they brew a
drink in the Highlands of Scotland thus com-
posed : One part of honey to three of whisky.
It is named Athol Brose, and is as potent as it is
palatable. It used to be yin o’ the sichts o’ the
Highlan’s and the most popular indoor Caledonian
sport to induce the unsuspicious Southron to hae
a glass or twa of this seductive and searching
brew. After two drinks, the stranger in a far
land who lived a thousand yards off might be con-
fidently expected to walk five miles before he got
home—on account of the width of the King’s high-
way—unless, indeed, he was wheeled home. It is
said that the duke who invented this beverage
laid-out Louis Napoleon by its aid when the Naps
visited Scotland—sometime prior to the birth of
the Prince Imperial.
THE COLLISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
His clothes were sombre and his aspect sad,
He faced the filthy place where could be had
Beer of a deadly quality and whisky bad.
Ruthless, in dreary coat and visage grim,
So, filled with awe, I stopped and gazed at him
And saw a drunk emerge with bloodshot eyes and dim.
He hiccupped twice within the portal w'de,
And with a wolibie and a lurch and slide
Approached the holy man who stood there in his pride
(As fixed and grim as any weathered rock),
And came against him with a beery shook,
And in thick, husky accents hailed him as “ Old Cock.”
O fool, to rush where angels fear to tread !
Grasping the sacred cloth (which tore) he said
“ (Hie) come ’n’ ’ave a rumsh wish me ! ” He lurched ! I
fled !
vic.
C. M. FLYNN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken in any case re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted, ivhether sent by post or handed in; and in
no case will MS. be returned unless stamps (of any
State) accompany.
Julie : Pretty, but hardly strength enough
W.L. : Don’t propose at present to alter the heading
“ Plain English ” to “ Plain Australian,” unless you can
prove that the language used isn’t English—or at least
some attempt at English Thingumbob: Thanks for
letter Dane : The aged person gazing into “ the dim
and fading light” and thinking of the past is “ off.” And
he should never have been on P. Cupid: Good
melodrama, unskilfully handled Nil Desperandum :
No performance, as yet Julia L.: The humor doesn’t
sparkle T. Smith : Lacks terseness and animation....
Wanderer: Not up to literary mark T.E. Van D. :
Awkward and ill-finished S.P.B. : Verse no good.
Other would need re-writing... .Duncan Campbell: Indif-
ferent workmanship H.G, : Will make par. 0n1y....
Argol: Weak and wordy C.C.W. : They range from
mediocre to hopeless... .Seaweed : Thanks for slips. Will
look up verse... , Cim : Humorous, but hardly publish-
able. .. .W.H.G. : Too much underclothing in your
verses A.E.R. : It was a good Joe Mille'rism
when it was new... .G. A.F. : Some good lines in
“Whalers”; some bad lines, some wildly awful....
O,G, : Sorry unsuitable A.H.B. : Haven’t any copies,
and wouldn’t mail them if we had. There was an acci-
dent of printing, out of which those who were dirty and
ingenious enough could make something suggestive....
R.B. (S’ Africa): Thanks; but we can’t find space to
contradict all the “ stinking fish ” lies which are sent
from Australia about Australia. The exports of the
Commonwealth nowadays are lies, wool, and butter ; the
lie-exporters are mostly the local importers of socks and
women’s underwear, men who have shoddy consciences
and fluff where they ought to have brains... .W.H.G. :
Agree in condemning war, but insist still that Australia
should arm. It would be of no use to cite Peace Society
arguments to the Asiatic if he came here in a battleship
to discuss matters Charlotte M. : Nothing in it
F.W.S. : Some people put their corns down as a result of
Federation. The change in the naval coaling arrange-
ments has nothing to do with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, The navy is a hired one, over which Australia has
no control... .Cosmos : The Single-tax, as a defence
against the Yellow Peril, doesn’t strike us as offering any
advantages over a highly-protected gun-factory....
A.W.R.: No use for laborious argument to show what a
political fool Mr. Reid is. He as good as admits all that.
G.N. : You have nothing fresh to say on the liquor
question... .Loco,: Sorry, but we haven’t time to dig out
WILD CAT (AUSTRALIAN VARIETY).
answers to miscellaneous questions. This paper has to
choose between being The Bulletin and Answers, and it
prefers to be The Bulletin. Useful knowledge of general
public interest on Australian matters we’re always willing
to supply Bendi : Not up, but not hopeless
R.N.C. : “Reverie” spoiled by many wildly incongruous
lines like “ the lamp in the heart of my wife is dull as
the eyes of Noah ”... .Balsam : Merely goes to prove that
in your district there are far too many chemists. Every
one of them may charge ridiculous prices, yet if there
are eight times as many as the trade can support indi-
vidual takings may he small. There are so few real
industries in this iand of imports that the struggle to
make a crust by selling something is very acute....
W.M.M. : “Lady of the Heavens” and “Cursing Jim”
both shocking metre... .C.M.F. (Travelling Sheep): A
good here and there, but net result unsatisfactory.
. ...E.V.M. : Very lame and tame and trivial.... “The
Beggar” (unsigned) painfully prolix.... D.B.D.: Some
force, but no finish... .11. : “Tragedy” doesn’t hit us.
Please call about the other ..Don Carlos: Humorous,
but too awkwardly framed... .A.J.B.W. : Vigorous, but
clumsy and inartistic....H.E.B. (Perth): Sorry to say
they are of no use to us whatever. The extracts supplied
are most unpromising.... Alec Zander: “Jim Crow” is
too horrible... .F.V.P. : “ Love’s Revenge ” seems rather
a feeble revenge. A great deal more satisfaction could
be gained from a well-aimed brick P. : Sketch unsatis-
factory ; verses better, but not better enough L.X. :
The divining-rod has been laid on the shelf.... Sugar-
cane : Just a plain ordinary murder... .Percy D. : It
shows good possibilities in you... .Dexter : Too involved
and technical.... A. P. G. : Over strained and unconvinc-
ing Erip : “ Tommy Bent ” poem fell on stony ground.
Lotus: “Nocturne” nearly got in, but was too
trivial. “ Rose-leaf ” poem and “ Love ” poem frizzled up
promptly on the hot shovel of criticism....N.T. : Can
only stand one verse of your poem on “Solitude.” Here
it is
... .Sandy McC.: “ Talk of the Watch ” declined.... Just.
“Devastation” too trivial D. : “Peep o’ Day” is
wrecked on the rock of the second verse.... F.H.: “ Winter
Night” struggles along a very familiar track L.F. :
“ Rising of the Sink ” nearly rose to the surface of publi-
cation, but sunk after all... .W.L. II. : “ Dum Vivirnus”
is a wonderful effort in the way of rhyme, but the rhyme
too often smothers the meaning... ,R.: “ Lacebark ” de-
clined. .. .I.B.M. : “ Next ” and “ Vane ” both very slim
and sketchy trifles. Tom B. : “Dutiful Scribe” just
misses the ’bus —the natural result of starting a slow poem
after a fast ’bus. The printed verses were the better of
the two I.M.P. : Don’t care to raise the ques-
tion of a God W.A.: “Big Ben’s Toll” is a rather
faint and sleepy bang. We want a bigger Ben A.
Zander: “ Cattle Ship ” not of sufficient general interest....
Speewah : “Luck is out,” good enough. Please always
put full name and address on copy..P.J.D. : Not
prepared to assert, in verse or otherwise, that the hills
saw the beginning, or will see the end of time.... J.M. :
“Busking” doesn’t busk with any great energy. You
want to busk like if you husk at all.... A.L. A.: Trouble
about “Drooping Bough ” is that the poem droops more
than the bough Mulwa : “ Two Pounds” accepted.
Send full address C.H. : “ Song of our Sons” is too
“ hifalutin ” and spread-eaglish. As things are going our
sons will be so busy trying to get Cohen and his brother
Kohn to renew the bill that they won’t have time to sing
... .Magnet-: “ Dawvid o’ the Aon” may be good Scotch
but it is too unintelligible for the average reader G.C.:
One or two good pars in the collection M.E.F. :
“ Comedy ” is one of these aggravating things that aren’t
good enough to print nor bad enough to light the fire
with Well-wisher: Thanks, will consider. Coghlan’s
Wealth and Progress is about the best book available
J.P.D. : Contingenting yarns rather stale no,w....
T.K.: We’ve made a vow "against wattle-adorned graves
for the next ten years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.R.B. : Shaving sketch not vigorous enough.... W.
Hess: One accepted Arthur J. : Not taking either
that kind of art or that kind of sentiment S. Kemmis :
None up to mark A. W. : Sorry to say can’t make any
use of photos B. Lee: Only a faint resemblance
J.E.N. : Not quite up in artistic sense, and marine gag
weak A. L. Mac: Idea hardly worth illustrating
Senilfed : Gag has been used already in many shapes.
Only objection to drawing is that it is bad in almost
every way P.S. : In “Convinced Him” drawing is
distinctly better. Joke, unfortunately, is worse
Italia: Sorry we omitted to acknowledge your letter.
The illustrated post-card you sent made us feel better....
H. Coates : Rather too amateurish.
Oh ! Thou husky, asthmatic old fellow,
Whom coughing has bent like a bow ;
Thou child with the colic, whose, bellow
Disturbs the whole neighborhood so.
O ! Lad with the appetite hearty,
Whom sweetmeats too greatly allure;
Now, mark what I say, nor depart ye
From Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure.*
But now ’bis like Eternity,
To think of those days gone by—
To think of my own diversity—
Uttering only a prolonged sigh.


The Sydney D.T. has started a pump,
■fcln column, headed “The Soli.” Let
US hope the editor knows more
pbout pumpkins he does /
'about politics. f
A/
aV= V ' V°
\o«-' \o< <?° % cS
v\2-' .V® *G aV *&■
A \ vy r >v . vsi 2,
% A <» X \\'
<>;: ■
♦
“ I am prepared to fight this great
battle of Socialism to the death. In
fighting that battle it is perfectly open
to the people of Australia to stand beside
me or desert me, but I will remain true,
i will remain under the flag, and fight
under it to the end.”
A set of Australian poets arriving. If the poets give satisfaction, lets
send Roosevelt a set of our Australian borrowing politicians.
s' Narrabrl, Monday.—Some ex-
citement was caused here
It was reported that a large
animal, which, from the descrip-j
tlon given, seems to be Identical'
with what Is known as the “ Tan-
tanoola tiger,** had been seen about
10 miles from town.
By the way, can it be that Geo. Reid
has got Tantanoola tigers ?
HIS LAST MATCH .—GEO. REID’S CAMPAIGN
AGAINST SOCIALISM.
Geo.: “ This is my last match. We’ll be dashed
cold if it won’t light 1”
RABBITING UP TO DATE.
“The Labor Commissioners have received information that
rabbit-trappers can make a living, if liiey have vehicles, in the
Queanbeyan and Wombat districts. They must go some distance
from the towns.”
POETS AND POLITICS.


Uje *nn«aJ re■«•>£ of-
field byqenDooT^
VC
(ibo ,r>
rc^eeffiil
bfticle)
Edwvd SHooK tands wHlf
Wi'AfooT Ceremony.
,s~ly:—:— itjerej-ore
Prokbu'lty
dr ilje orje'fin 1 e street-
prefer. yV\fV
800-15 -WU! $e
Ttje •
A^s T ’ ) wo-Fs
yer slceVe ?
Tory-Press Interviewer yo« be|«eV<2— every
otfjer 9iobe 't'rott?*' tfot" lAboar <S ftfe >
in — doht~ you ?" 1 b v'',
.'— "Certain ly ! " r (
ryjMcl/ 1
i?ivac^. y/1
ftferfriyiV fl
[" Wd Ij aye striff |l
I wpelT)enfK
every fll
ljoldiryg h• S
Security: 2ool^
/oqe*i (to ir,
L -hW);
L°°Key Keef?
-fa yoixr s°o ls*yi«7^
by ,'t^ere\ )
■fbo * r Oot' to
owf - oV 4ji S T?ixncj>s
Wj!' *> ,o
SueV] *ien
k h (
'fine cities.
"tVe hrjzdie Y /
wrH) t) aXing tlj U
out" to build Fed CA|>itdJ-?^
'• /p
03
Heb]!
1 very Kindly /
dhs|>o<£.d
Pen J
YVeve out* own
Jot lo'l's "bo
be rec Idi'bjed
/5/vs
TTer? Ve 100.000 h7en
in England whose frrosfedfc
W k w(7o
Willing +o Crossd^ e
Irj Sz&fc\i oj heifer .
I Boolfjr
S affile momen'f'l
"me Argentine Gov. -fhey
Will respond because fkey
in dead ly t^rnest''a,boul'jf.''
Were m earnest ibo ,o!d hia^n —deadly evnesf-
fcWd betor -believe WA" 7 *
£en E>oolfj (on
if)<ztr) oVeA.
" J)on't" |iKe ? —
T?ur h°W much bfe you pref&red
fo fj2vy ?’
Tps i$
We C&,n
afford
r^s^[\JLceA
* rcc
THE BOUNCE AND BRASS OF BOOTH.


A. SAUNDERS FOR WEDDING PRESENTS.
OUR WEDDING PRESENT DEPARTMENT
IS A SPECIAL FEATURE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Isct. Gold 2 BAR BROOCH. Set Diamond and 1
2 Rubies or Sapphires, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver, Handsomely Em-
bossed, comprising Nine Pieces, in, Silk-Lined Case,
£3 10s. Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Double
Buckle Ring,
17s 6cl.
Isct. Gold, SOS,
18et. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH,
Set Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 10s.
NICKEL,
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Non-Magnetuc, Strong, Reliable, Knockabout
WATCHES, Our “Unrivalled” Dust and Waterproof
Cases, 20s. London Lever, 2as. Extra Quality, 355.
Cheaper Lines, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. All guaranteed.
SILVER,
355.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure
Double Cut
Diamonds and
Sapphires,
£l2 10s, £l5, £2O
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Heart
Forget-Me-Not
BROOCH,
Set Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2 Bar 2 Heart and Lover’s-Knot BROOCH,
Set Diamonds, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination SUPPER DISH, Biscuit, Butter, and
Cheese, with Servers, Pure Plated on Nickel Silver,
Satin Glass Lining, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s. In Fancy
Carlton China (without servers), 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Engraved, 255.
Other Styles, 16s Cd,
20s, 30s, 355.
Mail Orders
Our Mail Order
Department
is under the special
supervision of the
head of the firm,
and orders entrusted
will receive the
same attention as
though you were here
to choose in person.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRYSTALITE SPECS., 3s 6d. PURE PEBBLE, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
ENGLISH ROLLED GOLD. 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s. SOLID GOLD, r ',s, 30s, 355, 40s.
We ask you at your leisure to pay a visit"to our Optical Rooms, and have
your Sight tested. Examination and Advice Free. If unable to call write
for our HOME EYE-TEST CHART. We send it Post Free to any address
Catalogue
We send our large
Illustrated Catalogue
to any address in
Australia, Post Free.
A Post Card will
bring you a copy.
Write at once.
We prepay postage
on all goods, with the
exception of large
Clocks and China.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR BUTTON BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Satin Finish, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Combination SHAVING
SOAP-HOLDER, 15s 6d. Soap fits
BRUSH and
in handle.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Oval
LINKS, 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
Monograms, 2s extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak
CRIBBAGE BOARD
and CARD BOX,
Pure Silver-Plated:
Mounts, 15s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
Pearl Set
Crescent
PIN,
17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Ruby or Amber Glass, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 15s 6d,
17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel SHAVING
COMPANION, 22s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 14s 6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Heart
and Dumbbell
LINKS, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-Mounted TOBACCO JAR
and PIPE STAND, Oak Base, 20s.
Other Styles, 27s 6d, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH, Handsomely Em-
bossed, Extra Long White Hand-drawn Bristles, 153 6d,
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255,
In Solid Nickel, 8s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set
Bird PIN, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
3 Bottle Luncheon
CRUET, Pure
Silver-Plated on
Nickel Silver, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s Od, 15s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Pearl Set SPRAY BROOCH.
17s 6d.
A Neat Design.
WINCFIELD RoWBOTHAM«C-
A. SAUNDERS.
Set of CARVERS Best Sheffield Silver Steel
Securely Riveted Handles, 27s 6d. Other Styles ’
12s 6d, 15s, 17s Gd, 20s, 25s 7 ’
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PIN CHAIN
and CHARM, 7s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Diamond
and Sapphires
or Rubies, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold 5 Fine
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £l5 10s.
Smaller, £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold 5 Fine
Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality
Opals, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Fashion, JAPANESE BAMBOO BRACELETS,
with Strong Safety Chain. £3.
Smaller, 2_55,. 30s, 355, 405,. 50s,
A. SAUNDERS.
White or Coloured
Crystal Glass
SPECIMEN TUBE,
Pure Silver-Mounted,
3s 6d Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar BROOCH,
Diamond and 4 Rubies in Centre, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG and TOAST RACK Combination,
Pure Silver-Plated on Nickel Silver, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
lIOT WATER KETTLE,
Eure Silver-Plated,
Handsomely Embossed
and fluted £3.
Other styles, £2 ss, £2 10s,
£3 10s, £-i, £5, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MUSTARD
POT and
SPOON, Pure
Silver-Plated,
7s 6d.
Salt and
Pepper to
Match,
7s Gd.
A, SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CREOLE
EARRINGS,
10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POWDER or POMADE POT, Pure
Mounts, Cherub Design, White Cut Glass, 5s Gd
10s Gd, 12s 6d.
Silver
7s Gd,
'
:
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt BEDROOM CLOCK,
Splendid Timepiece, 40s.
Other Styles, 8s Cd, 10s, 12s Gd,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold One-Piece
COLLAR STUDS,
5s 6d, 6s 6d.
loct. Gold,
8s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather
PURSE and CARD CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 10s 6d.
Other Styles,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-Mounted TOILET MIRROR,
Bevelled Glass, 6s 6d.
Other Styles, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s Cd, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
m
*
A. SAUNDERS.
BABY CHARMER, Solid Silver
4 Bell Rattle and Ivory
Teething Ring, 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS,
SYDNEY’S LEADING
SILVERSMITH, AND
JEWELLER,
OPTICIAN.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817 GEORGE-ST.,
OPP. RAILWAY
STATION


BEAUTIFUL EYES & LASHES.
MORRIS’S^
"imperial.** Ifmpeiial
hgc
ç
E\>e
©intment
Adds lustre, strengthens vision,
restores lashes. No toilet table
complete without it. rots 2/-.
chemists & stores. Post 2/2 troiu Proprietary,Melb!
HATS
HAYING specially selected from the world’s best
markets the latest in HARD FELT HATS, I am
able to offer values cibovc the ordinary.
hgck
No. 1 is a very stylish up-to-date
line, at 6/6
No. 2— An equally fashionable
Hat, at 3/6, in five different
shapes.
No. 3 —A superior Hat, beauti-
fully finished, Pure Fur, at
10/6 , in five of the latest
shapes worn.
No,
. 4 is a high-class Bowler, showing in ten distinct
shapes, Fashion Fancies, 12 6, quality unsurpassed.
Country Customers post your orders to—
A. H. RUSSOm,
171 Pitt St.,
Near G.P.O.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM.
“ Used your valuable Remedy for
COUGH & COLD I
OYER THIRTY YEARS
In my family with great success."
—J. Hall, School-house, E. Markham.
AGENIS.
EI.T.IOTT BROTHERS & CO.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
>■
r BeautiTnl
Ring Settings
We have a line of GOLD RINGS of inanifoijl
designs—Beautiful Half-hoop Rings, Marquise and
Cluster, etc., set with RICH WHITE
DIAMONDS, and but you must see them
to appreciate their tone. Prices from «S 3 up.
Also, a variety of Rings suitable as gifts.
EDWARD FISCHER & SOM
ISO COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
W E
have much pleasure in calling the attention of our numerous readers who are interested in the preservation and growth of the Hair, to the
great success achieved by ... .
Mr. EDWIN HOLLAND,
Hair and Skin
Specialist,
195 Collins Street; Melbourne.
gh
So great has been the demand for the Splendid Preparations for the Skin and Hair that he has been compelled to move into
pp- LARGER PREMISES.
He can now be Consulted Daily at t&ie Fine
New Establishment next the “ Argus” Office.
Mr. Holland is spoken of as the Greatest Expert on the
Skin and Hair that we have in the Commonwealth of
Australia. Indeed, his services are sought after by
people living In nearly every part of the world.
A lady, writing from Denmark, says—“ Your Naturaline for the color of the hair is all that you claim for it.”
Another lady, writing from England, wants to buy the formula of his Plytoline, as it has done her hair more good than all the other
numerous preparations she has used.
Another lady, living in England, testifies to the fact that his Parasene is the most wonderful lotion for the Cure of Eczema and Scalp
Troubles she has used.
We have seen manv of the wonderful testimonials he has received from grateful clients speaking of the great success of his treatment. If there is ANYTHING WRONG
WITH YOUR SCALP AND HAIR, it will be worth your while to PAY HIM A VISIT, and to USE HIS PREPARATIONS.
They are sold by all Chemists
and the Proprietor,
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 195 Collins St., Melbourne.
ghk
EVERY DEPARTMENT REPRESENTED.
LARGE REDUCTIONS MADE THROUGHOUT THE WAREHOUSE .
NOW ON.
PRICE LIST AND CATALOGUE SENT ON APPLICATION .
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED, Melbourne.
THE UNEMPLOYED AND THE STATE.
Broadly speaking, the idle may be grouped in
three divisions :
(1) Those who want but car.not obtain work.
(2) Those who consistently evade work.
(3) Those who can live without work.
The third section, not only by evil example, but
also by the transmission of lifelong habits of
luxurious laziness to its posterity, is to some
extent responsible for those of the second class.
The rest of the responsibility must fall on the
shoulders of the people’s representatives, because
of their failure to grapple seriously with this great
problem. Nor is it permissible that any grade of
society should be permitted to evade its responsi-
bilities with regard to the unemployed on the
score of “class legislation.” The unemployed is
of no class in particular, is recruited from all
classes. In addition to skilled and unskilled
workers, it contains disrated officers—naval and
military, once prc sperous merchants and traders,
drought-reduced squatters, defalcating lawyers,
unfrocked priests and parsons, warned-off book-
makers, doctors for whom drink had more attrac-
tion than disease, and so forth. Even were it
not so—were the unemployed drawn either all
from the professions, or all from the
laborers—it would still be the unshirk-
able duty of the community, as a whole,
for its own safety, to succor the unfortu-
nate, the helpless, the ineapa jle, and the ill-
disposed, from the degradation which awaits them
if left to their own devices. The community
should shape its policy to secure remunerative
work for the willing and capable; it should
compel the unwilling but capable to work ;
it should support, and reform where possible,
the physically, mentally, and morally incap-
able. If any or all of these things be neglected,
then society will eventually be dragged down
by its burden of human vermin. As for the
loungers, the social butterflies, these must be left
to the less tender mercies of a more practical
posterity.
• * * *
Civilisation’s greatest problem has always been
the lack of continuous employment for the willing.
Many civilised countries are now making it
a leading political and municipal question. In
Holland they have Beggar Colonies. Frederik-
soord, a private philanthropy, was founded by
General Van den Bosch, in 1818, at the conclusion
of the French war', when the Netherlands was
plunged in pauperism. In the midst of a desert
are 5000 intensely cultivated acres, which support
ir plenty 90 families of partially-dependent
laborers, who in time will be self-supporting;
224 families of self-supporting farmers ; and 120
aged and orphaned, who board with the farmers.
Altogether, nigh 2000 people are supported here
at the minimum of cost. The State’s Beggar
Colonies were founded in 1870 on a wild waste.
Here 3000 men and women—most of them arc too
old or too ill to work—are supported by the work
of the sturdy at an annual cost of little more than
£8 per head, a sum likely to be reduced as the
land becomes more easily worked. But as large
numbers of idlers and incapables are still at large,
preying on the community and free to reproduce
their kind, the scheme is by no means complete.
Yet if Holland can support its aged and feeble at
a cost of £8 per head largely through the labor of
those who would otherwise be outcasts, Australia
might well give the Dutch method attention.
* * * *
Various cities of the United Kingdom deal
more or less tentatively with the unemployed
question, but Berlin is notable for a bold munici-
pal handling of the matter. Shelters are there
provided where the homeless men, women,
and children —are suppered, bathed, bedded, and
their clothes cleaned and fumigated while they
sleep. But no one may go oftener than five times
in each quarter to the municipal shelter, or five
times in each month to the shelter managed by
the Social Democrats. Those who go oftener,
like those found begging or idling in the streets,
are sent to the workhouse, where they earn board
and lodging by very hard work, and are taught the
trades for which they seem best fitted. This may
seem harsh treatment, but extensive diseases re-
quire drastic remedies, and discipline is what the
morally weak need above all things. Berlin nurses
its sick poor back to health ; finds work for the
willing who cannot otherwise obtain it ; compels
the lazy and criminal to maintain themselves;
and, aided by the State insurance system, supports
the aged and incapable. Of course, the scheme is
far from perfect—for instance, we have not yet
heard that any loafer has there been plucked from
the bosom of his motor-car and committed to the
workhouse—but, nevertheless, the system is worthy
of earnest consideration.
* * * *
In Australia this question should be grap-
pled with by the municipalities, shire councils
and State Governments, with the Federal
Ministry as the central authority. Each sec-
tion should provide, as far as possible, for
its own unemployed, and should regularly
furnish the central body with information
and statistics, so that a labor shortage in one
quarter might be balanced by the surplus of
another district. It should also be part of the
domestic economy of each State and municipality
to establish industrial and agricultural colleges for
the support and instruction of the willing but unfor-
tunate —these to be worked in conjunction with the
farm colonies and factories, whence the instructed
may be drafted. For the convalescent poor and
temporarily out of work, shelters should be estab-
lished on waste lands within easy distance of
cities—resembling that, for instance, on the
Bunnerong Road, Sydney—where the deserving
may re-establish health and prosecute the search
for employment while earning supper, bed, and
breakfast daily by a few hours of open-air toil.
Lastly, each large centre should have its peni-
tentiary where confirmed cadgers, beggars, loafers
and petty thieves should be compelled to earn
bread ere permitted to eat it. Of course, Tub
Bulletin is not blind to the fact that all these
stimulants to effort will not avail without the
greater stimulus caused by easy access to land and
the development of native industry, but these
matters are not now under discussion. It is
the habitual unemployed with which this article
deals, the man who doesn’t want to work and the
man who, whilst he will work if a job is thrust at
him, has no energy or initiative to search out an
opportunity—the lazy men and the feckless men.
* * * *
The individualist, the private enterprise crank,
will, of course, at once, ask: “ Why should the
State do any of these things ? ” Well, this country
already expends something like 7s. per head on its
police and prison system; it possibly spends
4s. or more per head on its judicial machinery;
while its expenditures in charity, public and
private, much exceed both these sums. At the
same time the annual expenditure is increasing on
prisons, hospitals, benevolent institutions, soup-
kitchens, lunatic asylums, reformatories, children’s
homes, and other punitive and charitable places.
These at best are only palliatives—State
recognitions of social evils which it seem-
ingly considers irremediable; evils which
grow annually with what they feed upon.
On the other hand, the scheme just detailed, if
only moderately successful, would have the effect
of lessening considerably our charitable and puni-
tive expenditure, and would at least make some
attempt to deal systematically and logically with
a great national difficulty. At present every
loafer, every vagrant —hungry, dirty, vermin-
infested —is a seed-plot of bodily disease and of
mental and moral contamination. The community
which permits this process of self-infection to go on
and to grow perceptibly is more criminal than the
evilly-constituted who impair its health and en-
danger its existence. Thelonger it abstainsfrom sus-
tained and scientific interference, the more quickly
approaches the moment of its own disintegration.
It is a crying shame that thousands should ask in
vain for work; it is a national disgrace that
thousands should be permitted to evade all honest
toil. The idler, the beggar, the sharper, in due
time will evolve the thief, the prostitute, the
degenerate, the lunatic, and the murderer. And
the numbers of these assassins of national life are
rapidly increasing.
A woman’s thoughts don’t always fly first
to her frock. When a fire broke out in a Maori-
land house lately, a young woman rushed to the
front room to grab a Tatt.’s sweep ticket that had
arrived that afternoon. She saved that, but she
lost most of her wardrobe.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteracts the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
Juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
It’s good for the butcher, the baker, the brewer,
The carpenter, bricklayer, blacksmith, and shoer,
The mistress, the servant, the maiden demure,
The toiler, the clerk, the disconsolate wooer ;
It’s good for the wealthy, it’s good for the poor,
Of the system cold-stricken a perfect renewer.
When the air of Australia is cold and impure
It’s infallible— Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure.*
Mr. E. E. HOLDEN, Greenleaf, Minn., writes :
—“ My little daughter had A DEEP-SEATED COUGH,
which all remedies failed to reach until we tried Jayne’s
Expectorant. This medicine CURED THE CHILD.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or stereos, all exquisitely finished
French work, 5/- Fine assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money
order on London. State wishes. Full satisfaction
guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89 C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
gh
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if
you want real good stamps, send to
FRED. HA6EN,
PyREIGST STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth St. f SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Judging by the statements made to the
Lands Commission, the object of a good deal of
Cornstalk legislation was not so much to settle
Mr. Willis on the land as to settle the land on Mr.
Willis.
Pumpkin Smith, orating in the anti-
Socialist interest at Bathurst (N.S.W.), told his
audience that his party wasn’t afraid to face the
people and it was quite sure it had the people at
its back.
B. R. Wise, who seems to have dropped
altogether the Freetrade foolishness, is pushing
home in England the facts as to the Yankee Har-
vester Trust’s attempt to knock out the Australian
agricultural machinery firms.
A “bull” by Edden, M.L.A. (N.S.W.).
During his speech on the censure debate he
observed several Ministerialists leaving the
Chamber, and remarked : “They stalk out one
by one without a leg to stand on.”
Sydney Fatmen are talking of promoting
a comic paper to help their cause in politics.
“ We need the help of ridicule,” says John Stin-
son, solemnly. They want ridicule ? Well,
they’ve only to get on a platform to excite it.
The Westralian press reports of Justice
Burnside’s decision in the recent Chinese exclu-
sion case, show that the summaries telegraphed to
the Eastern papers were grossly incorrect. Instead
of saying that the “ test ” should have been put to
the Asiatic in a language he could understand,
what the Judge actually did say was that the
request to undergo the test should have been
interpreted to the man in his own language—a
vastly different thing. The Bulletin apologises
to Mr. Burnside.
BRITAIN'S CLOSING DOOR.
The second reading of the Aliens Exclusion Bill has passed
the House of Commons.
So far Sweden seems unable to decide
what to do about that Norwegian revolution.
The King, who received notice to quit, has gone
out and banged the door hard behind him to indi-
cate that he is annoyed, and for the time being
the matter rests there.
Half-Premier Reid at Rockhampton the
other day:—“He had faced the wealthy classes
and taken them down. Now he was facing a
much more powerful combination, and was
endeavoring to take them down." Reid was
always a political “take-down.”
When the financiers of the world—as it
was alleged—were turning their faces resolutely
way from this country, and the Commonwealth
was rocking to its base, Mr. Reid was found
pinning his faith to an amendment of the standing
orders.— W. M. Hughes in a recent speech.
Holman, M.L.A., stated lately at Gun-
dagai (N.S.W.) that the time was near when the
Labor party would dominate Australia. But if
the party has any sense it will postpone dominat-
ing till it has High Protection on its programme.
Otherwise industries will continue to languish,
people will still drift away, immigration will still
be practically a blank, and for all this the demo-
cratic policy will bear the blame till the party
goes out of office with discredit, having set the
cause back 20 years.
“Adelaide” : And is it really possible
that you haven’t a Width of Tyres Act in N.S.W.
either (B. 25/5/’O5) ? S. A. passed hers close on 40
years ago—9cwt. allowed for each inch of wheel-
width. On the whole, N.S.W. might do well to
borrow our statute-books and acquire some useful
hints.
The Carruthers Government in N.S.W. at
last ends the Arbitration Court deadlock by agree-
ing to appoint a Deputy-President. So the
attempt to strangle the Act fails; its most
definite result has been to unite the labor unions
in a defence of the Arbitration Court, in support
of which they were not too cordial before.
The Tory London Morning Post now
urges that it would be better for Australia to have
its own navy than to subsidise the British fleet: —
Her own navy would provide Australia with the only
means of producing a school of seamen able to grasp
problems of naval strategy'.
Which was one of the reasons pressed by The
Bulletin when arguing against the naval subsidy.
Premier Bent has violently informed a
deputation that he will have nothing to do
with a Woman Suffrage Bill. He is against it to
tlje utmost of his bellow, and “he’d sooner lose
his seat than grant women a vote.” And, to do
the female voter justice, there’ll probably be a
perspiring market gardener earnestly searching
for a place whereon to rest his weary bulk so soon
as she gets the suffrage in spite of him.
The further G. H. Reid wanders into
denunciations of Socialism the more hopelessly
muddled he shows himself :
If Socialism would put into the hearts of the people a
spirit of Christianity, if it put into the breasts of the
proud a spirit of humanity, then he would rush to sup-
port it. But what a monstrous folly to say that a code of
words could do by compulsion what the Divinity could
not do.
Will the Church ask Reid what he means by say-
ing that the Omnipotent “ could not do ” this or
that ?
Manager Thornley, of W. Sandford, Ltd.,
the firm which has been struggling for 20 years to
set the iron industry on its legs in Australia,
announces that they are not going to be wiped
out; if they cannot manufacture, they will
import. But what sort of policy is it that shuts
up workshops and opens an office alongside a
wharf —that takes a job away from a couple of
hundred skilled workmen, and gives a job to a 30s.
a week clerk and an odd shift to half-a-dozen
coal lumpers ? The manufacturer probably won’t
care, for he will make more money; but the 200
workmen
Launceston (Tas.) Ex-
aminer, always a rather low-
spirited publication, expresses
the opinion that the island may
this year have another deficit of
about £25,000—0f course after
charging, as usual, a large
amount of ordinary expendi-
ture to loans. And it solemnly
warns the Evans Ministry that,
whatever the deficit may be,
“there must be no further
schemes at present for imposing
fresh burdens on the people.”
Tasmania is a very lightly-taxed
State compared to such a place
as England, but it has a won-
derful number of papers which
assure its people that they are
a crashed and down-trodden
assemblage, and that if they
are expected to pay their way
they will burst. And unless
Tasmania gets a little more
grit and honesty it might al-
most as well burst and be done
with it.
Mr. Briner moves in the
N.S.W. State Parliament for
elective Ministries—a wise and
ultimately inevitable step. The
theory of Party Government,
which makes it necessary to
eject a good Cabinet because
one of its members is impos-
sible, or to tolerate a bad Cabi-
net because of the reluctance to
lose a couple of good adminis-
trators, is obviously opposed
to common sense. It is an
inheritance from England
(where the nation seems to
have made its Parliamentary
system purpo-ely unpractical
and “viewy” with a view to
casting off the reproach of
being too business-like), and
doesn’t work in Australia.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers takes every
opportunity (the High Court expenses discussion
was the last) to wail over the lost rights of his
State through the delay in setting up the Federal
capital. And Carruthers himself is the only ob-
stacle to a settlement. The Federal Parliament
has decided upon a site and Carruthers will not
yield it, and Reid is not courageous enough to
take it. Hence the deadlock.
Earl Beauchamp, at an English meeting,
the other day :
He could not understand how it was that the political
party which was so anxious to exclude aliens from this
country were so anxious to dump Chinese into S’Africa.
He knew of mines in Australia, as deep or deeper than
mines in the Transvaal, which were worked by white
labor at trade-union rates of wages. If this was possible
in Australia, why was it impossible in S’Africa? The
introduction of Chinese under the British flag was a slur
and a tarnish upon the good name of our country.
Though they have clipped the lawyer’s
wings a good bit in S. Aus., he can still spread
them pretty wide. The law allows municipal
corporations to sell lands for overdue rates.
Recently the Thebarton Corporation decided to
sell eight allotments. The sale brought in £74;
the lawyer’s bill was for £79. It was taxed
down to £6l; but even then, when all the other
bills were paid, all that was left for the coun-
cil was £1 Bs. 7d.
The quality of horses shipped to India
from Australia for army remounts has fallen off
seriously of late, and the same old remedy is pro-
posed—Socialism. It is suggested that the State
should inspect stallions, should provide good
stallions to breeders at a nominal fee, and should
prevent brood mares leaving the country. When-
ever the business man gets the power to see an
evil and the intelligence 'to think out a remedy, he
always seems to pick upon a further instalment of
State Socialism as the only thing to meet the case.
Then he writes a letter to the papers pointing out
how the Socialistic Labor party is ruining the
country.
A departmental return
shows that during 1904, 117
immigrants were excluded
from the Commonwealth
under the Alien Immi-
gration Restriction Act.
Of these, 76 were
Chinese. On the other
hand, 603 Chinese, 2
negroes, 4 Cingalese,
9 Filipinos, 13 Hin-
dus, 12 Japs, and 14
Syrians were admitted
as exempt on account
of former domicile ; 163
Chinese came in under
State permits, and 461
Malays, and 419 Japs
arrived as pearlers. Query:
How many of the Chows
listed as being admitted on
account of former domicile and
under State permits, were.
helped along by that “forged-certificate” factory
unearthed at Hongkong recently ? Another query :
Is an Act which keeps out 76 Chinese, and
admits 1280 colored people of all sorts, the sort of
White Australia Act we want? This country
begins to have a doubtful feeling in the stomach.
One of the motions on the business paper
of tho Labor Congress which meets on July 8
reads: —
That Protection be made a plank in the Federal Labor
party’s platform.
By way of amendment, The Bulletin moves that
the word “high” be inserted between “that” and
“Protection.” And this paper holies it will be so
high that the importer will sprain his neck trying
to see to the top of it.
The logic of the cleric. The other day a
parson of Southern Victoria attacked the Labor
Party and its legislative proposals with true
Kerristian bitterness. Almost in the same breath
he said there was no chance for a man to get along
in Victoria, and solemnly announced his intention
of going to Maoriland (which has been run on
Labor principles for 14 years) “where things are
booming.” The same gentleman a while ago said
that he wasn’t going to bother about a vote
because so many people didn’t trouble to record
their votes now-a-days. He was too tired even to
vote against the Labor Party.
As against Cardinal Moran, who has
dropped to G. H. Reid’s bogey campaign, Reid
quotes Bishop Dunne as delivering “a warning
and protest against the Socialistic tendencies of
the Labor organisations.” Which is just about
as accurate as might have been expected. Dr.
Dunne delivered his warning and protest against
the secularism of a debating club (which held its
meetings on Sundays), and not against the
Socialism of the Labor party. Is George Reid, by
the way, game to have his policy judged by the
things he babbled in his young, slim days at the
School of Arts talking-mili ?
The Heid party has decided, and perhaps
rightly, that its best chance lies in making the
next Federal election a fight between Socialism
and anti-Socialism. At all events, if it
can fight the election on that issue alone,
it has a chance to keep the present coali-
tion together. And the Labor party
plays its game by meeting it on the
ground it has selected. If the Labor
party would only get a patriotic fiscal
policy, and would insist on answering
Reid’s Tory howl with a howl for demo-
cratic progress, High Protection, and
no borrowing, it would burst the coali-
tion asunder. The fact that Reid wants
to sink the tariff question at the elec-
tion is just the reason why his oppo-
nents should keep it high up before
the people—as high as Hainan's gal-
lows. The commander who only attacks
his enemy where the enemy asks him
to attack is generally a failure. At least,
that wasn’t the way Togo won his battles.
Some of those Transvaal war con-
tractors must have picked up a wrinkle or
two from certain old-time N.S.W. Lands
Department experts who were pervading
S’Africa during and since the war.
Premier Daglish, of Westralia, when he
took office, said that lie was going to mark time.
Since then, in 10 months, he has spent £533,719 of
loan money, or at the rate of £2 4s. lOd. per head of
the average population, or nearly twice as much
as the entire debt of Japan, or about an eighth of
what Great Britain has managed to pile up
through a couple of hundred years of wars and
preparations for wars. And Daglish did it in 10
months, and piled up a deficit on revenue account
into the bargain. Which only shows that if you
choose a bog to mark time on, and mark time with
enough vigor, you can get deeper in the mess than
if you didn’t mark time at all but simply walked
straight ahead.
The voice of Senator Dobson has been but
little heard of late, but it was uplifted in a recent
Argus, and it was the old voice and the old
Dobson. The re-awakening of the Tassy Senator
is due to the Kanaka. After declaring with un-
necessary vehemence, that—
The Kanakas cannot and will not be deported—
he refers to them as “harmless and useful men,”
of whom, if they are sent back—-
Some will go to starvation, others to violence and pro-
bably death, and all to barbarism, except, of course, the
few who may be fortunate enough to fall into the hands of
missionaries.
The quaint, contradictory Dobson sort of person
never seems to see anything strange about his
description of Tommy Tanna, temporarily in
Queensland, as a “ harmless and useful man,”
and his brother, Jimmy Tanna, of Malekula, who
has probably been in Queeensland, as a violent,
murderous, fratricidal scoundrel.
“T.S.”: Apropos of the ramifications of
the Australian Stinking Fish party. I travelled
a few months ago from Rangoon to Calcutta on
board an unkempt steamer —the Ethiopia—which
was infested with ants to a degree which made
sleep impossible. The captain learned that I was
from Australia, and asked what on earth was going
to become of that dreadful country, seeing that
the railways in Victoria alone had a deficit of three
millions a year. Heaven only knows where he
got his figures from. This captain, out of every
22 days, spent nine ashore at Calcutta and six
ashore at Rangoon. He had a pilot to take him
up and down the Hooghly and the Rangoon river,
so he had six days of actual work (he never stood
a watch, however, so far as I could find out) in
every 22. He told me, Australians were lazy.
And when the soda-water ran out, half-way
between Rangoon and Calcutta, because somebody
had forgotten to put the usual supply on board,
and when it was discovered that the liquor depart-
ment hadn’t laid in a single cigar-well, the cap-
tain was just explaining to me how inefficient was
the management of everything in Australia when
those discoveries were made, and he didn’t seem
in the least put out.
SOME AUSTRALIAN MUMMIES.
N.S.W. State Parliament—the 20th—has
met for its second session, and the first business
paper simply reeks with petty parochial
motions and questions. There is a request for
Parliament to interfere in the matter of a King-
street fruit merchant’s fines ; in the matter of the
discharge of a man from the railway yards; in the
matter of the employment of four stonemasons by
the Works Department. Select Committees are
asked for, to report on some claim or demand
against the Railway Commissioners, on a re-
appraisement application, and on the suspension
of a bookbinder from the State employ. It is
natural that a Parliament which devotes its atten-
tion to such matters should have no time to estab-
lish a workable Local Government system, or to
create an iron industry, or to straighten the
finances, or to do anything really important. It
is natural, too, that it should be a Parliament of
men with parish souls controlled by a Premier
with a parish-pump soul.
At last N.S.W. State election Premier
Carruthers talked at first of the total abolition of
borrowing, and though he tapered off a good deal,
he was solid even at the end on keeping loan
expenditure down to £1,500,000 a year. He has
got through a trifle of £1,833,700 in eleven
months, and he puts this in the Governor’s speech
at the opening of Parliament: —
The necessity for the completion of the many works
and undertakings that, under the authority of Parlia-
ment, have been entered upon, has prevented, and will
for some time prevent, the volume of State borrowing-
being- reduced to the limited dimensions considered
desirable by my Advisers ; but it has been, and, is being,
greatly curtailed. It is hoped that the day is close at
hand when borrowing outside the Commonwealth, except
for renewal purposes, will be entirely discontinued.
It isn't being greatly curtailed—in fact, during
the last three months (March, April and May)
the loan expenditure was £130,505 more than in
the corresponding three months of last year under
Waddell. The rest of the clause is simply a bald
announcement that Carruthers isn’t going to keep
his promise, and that he got votes under false
pretences.
GEORGE'S NIGHTMARE.
“Mr. Reid has done a lot of train-travelling during his
political career, but on his present visit to Queensland
the Prime Minister is beating all previous records. The
initial portion of his trip was a journey of nearly 1000
miles, from Sydney to Bundaberg, accomplished in two
big jumps with an half-hour interval between the jumps.
He had barely time to dust his clothes and dine in Bunda-
berg before he climbed into another train, and sped to-
Bingera plantation. That train has been at his disposal
ever since—a special engine, a special car, a special officer,
and the three combined are forming into a spectre, a
spectre that startles Mr. Reid in his sleep. He feels that
his bed is being drawn by the engine, and that at the foot
stands a railway official.”
“ Faster! Faster!—we mustn't let Watson
catch up!"
Apparently there may be a High Court
case before Victoria loses one of its representa-
tives. The Constitution says that representation
shall go according to population as shown by “ the
latest statistics of the Commonwealth.” Victoria
claims that there are no statistics except at census-
time—only estimates; also, that there are no-
Commonwealth estimates, but only State esti-
mates by State officials, the Commonwealth having-
set up no statistician as yet.


THE CALLAGHAN SHOE
FOR LADIES,
POST AND
DUTY FREE
Anywhere
in the
Common-
wealth.
A
ITS LONG
WEAR
MAKES IT
CHEAP .
LADIES’ FINE AMERICAN GLACE
KID SHOES, to Lace, with Stylish, Patent
Leather Caps, and the NEW-FASHIONED
COLLARETTE, shown in engraving.
PRICE, 12/11. Post and Duty Free, 13/6, all over the Commonwealth.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
Please read the following in proof of oar statement—
THAT YOU CAN’T DO BETTER THAN BUY A PAIR.
“ I have pleasure in acknowledging
receipt of Shoes by last mail. They
the MOST PERFECT FIT I have
enjoyed for manv years.
“W.G.S.R., Cloneurry.”
“Am pleased to say that the Shoes
are very satisfactory—BY FAR THE
BEST I have purchased at the
price.
“T.A.M., Mundooran. 1
SEND FOR A COPY OF
The Callaghan Boot Style-Book,
POSTED FREE FOR ASKING.
VITADATIO
Still Triumphant.
Constipation Cured.
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—While in Ballarat last Christmas I was in the
theatre and saw your advertisment, and, suffering from
constipation, thought I would give your remedy a trial,
and I can assure you that I am now perfectly cured. I
did intend writing to you before, but better late than
never. I have sent letters to all my friends in Ballarat
about it, and all I say is, that I wish you every success
with the remedy. Yours faithfully,
WILTON CAREY.
For further particulars,
S. A. PALM Eli,
Head Office: 439 Flinders Lane ,
Melbourne.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
The price of medicine is 5/6 and 3/6 per bottle.
MESSRS. ELLIOTT BROS., O’Connell-street, Sydney,
Sole Agents N.S.W.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
RANSOMS,
LIQUID
STOPPING
1A
Per Bottle
ALL CHEMISTS
& STORESJ
DECAYED
) Oivc§
Instahf relief
from pain
killstne nerVe
fill§ up tfie
Catfiffi and
If\e "teeHf are
again useful.
Toothache Cured
Post free from the Sole Proprietors,
Australian Drug C^L™, Sydney.
MEMORY.
PELMAN’S SYSTEM.
A GOOD MEMORY is essential to success. It is
good memory that makes successful men and women
in every sphere of action. It is the possession of a good
memory that enables the worker to profit by learning
and experience. The memory can be developed and im-
proved by proper training, just as the muscles of the
body are developed and strengthened by proper exercises.
A course of
PELMAN’S SYSTEM
—OF—
MEMORY TRAINING
will develop your memory to a surprising extent, and put
you on the right road. There is no one who cannot
benefit by the System which has earned the endorse-
ment of the most eminent practical men and women of
the day.
The System is taught by correspondence in a course of
Five Lessons.
Any persons of ordinary education can master it in six
weeks by half-an-hour’s daily study.
WRITE for FREE COPY of Mr. Pelman’s Booklet.
The Secretary,
PELMAN SCHOOL OF MEMORY TRAINING,
BOX 402, G.P.0., MELBOURNE.
England—4 Bloomsbury-street, London ; America—9ol
Whitehall Buildings, New York ; Germany—9 Mozartstr,
Munich ; France —109 Avenue de Neuilly, Paris ; Africa—
Lynne Buildings, Durban, Natal.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
kghk
We make them on the premises.
! We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS, Surgio j} a I k n e s r t s rument
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
ROOFING. DAMPCOURSE
RELIABLE AS THE SUN-DIAL!
LIGHT! EASY TO LAY!
Winning its way by force of merit, and
the kindly acknowledgment of same by
satisfied users, right here in Australia.
JX jX
Manufactured only by
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.,
San Francisco, California.
Australasian Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents Everywhere.
O.K. Copper Mines Development Syndicate,
LIABILITY.
BALANCE SHEET, MARCH 31st, 1905.
LIABILITIES.
To— £
Nominal Capital—
-45,000 shares of £1
each
Less—
-11,255 shares un-
issued and held in
reserve
22,500 shares paid up
to £1
11,245 shares of £1
each (paid up to
155.)
s. d. £ e. d. £ S. d.
45,000 0 0
11,255 0 0
33,745 0 0
22,500 0 0
11,245 0 0
Less— 33,745 0 0
15,000 shares, issued
as paid up to 15s. 11,250 0 0
11,245 shares issued
as paid up to 10s. 5,622 10 0
16,872 10 0
Less— 16,872 10 0
Uncalled Capital of
ss. per share on
11,245 contributing
shares .. .. 2,811 5 0
14,061 5 0
Sundry Creditors .. 2,498 16 10
Bank of Australasia,
Cairns ’.. .. 3,196 6 11
Outstanding cheques 770 3 4
3,966 10 3
Bank of Australasia,
Chillagoe, Cr. .. 263 510
Outstanding cheques 301 13 6
3B 7 8
Less amount at Or. 4,004 17 11
Q.N. Bank, Her-
berton .. .. 10 16 7
3,994 1 4
20,554 3 2
Profit and Loss .. 5,098 13 1
£25,652 16 3
ASSETS.
£ 8. d.
25,652 16 3
£25,652 16 3
This is to certify that we have examined the books and vouchers and found them correct, and that they repre-
sent the true statement of affairs of the Syndicate. 25th May, 1905.
JOHN NEWELL, Chairman.
A. J. DRAPER, Secretary.
G. STEVENSON DAVIS, Auditor.
P. M. WEBSTER, Cert. Auditor.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
To the Shareholders O.K. Copper Mines Development Syndicate, N.L.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —The Directors have the honor to present herewith for vour consideration the Half-Yearly
Report and Balance-Sheet of the transactions of your Company from the 6th November, 1904, to 31st March, 1905,
together with the report of the General Manager, Mr. A. Gibb, the Mining Engineer, Mr. Peter Brander, and the Auditors.
The period Under review is a most Important one in the history of your Company. Your financial position on
the 24th May may be taken as follows :
Net value of matte on hand after allowing for cost of transit to Liverpool and all realisation charges.. £13,317
Surplus on shipments in transit 5,362
Cash in hand at Bank ’6go
, 19,359
Less outstanding liabilities, including wages 4,359
Balance available ■. .. £15,000
You will observe by the General Manager’s Report that he is confident of producing 300 tons of copper monthly.
At the present price of copper, this should yield a monthly net profit of £lO,OOO. Viewing the financial position, and
with the prospects for the future Apparently assured, as shown by the General Manager’s and the Consulting Engi-
neer’s reports, your Directors feel they are justified in declaring a first dividend of ss. per share, pavable on the 14th
June.
The total expenditure on plant to date has been about £6OOO, whilst the plant is in every way adequate to con-
tinue the present output, your Directors are of opinion that this could be greatly improved by the addition of a
Converter plant, which they have decided to purchase. This will permit of the percentage of the matte being raised
from, say, 45 per cent, to 50 per cent, as at present, to Blister Copper, thereby effecting a very considerable saving in
the transit charges, which, owing to the isolation of your property, is the heaviest expense.
The mine, as you are aware, is situated by present routes 46 miles from Mungana, the railway terminus, 150 miles
from Cairns. Considerable difficulty was experienced in obtaining carriers from the mine to Mungana. Advertise-
ments were inserted in the leading newspapers throughout the State, calling tenders for any quantity from 50 to 400
tons per month, and, although unsuccessful in getting horse teams, finally arrangements were made with the Burke
Carrying Company for the conveyance of 400 tons per month at £2 10s. per ton from the mine to Mungana, with all
back loading at the same rate.
Mr. Peter Brander was appointed Consulting Mining Engineer, to report to the Board periodically the progress
made, and attached herewith is his last report. The figures therein may be accepted as an independent confirmation
of the General Manager’s estimates. The limestone required in smelting is procurable in unlimited quantities within
a distance of 30 or 11 miles of the works, and contracts lately entered into will ensure a constant supply at a con-
siderably reduced rate. Provision is being made for wet season stocks of both limestone and coke. In order to mini-
mise the delay in transit during the wet season, it has been decided to construct a bridge over the Walsh River, at an
estimated cost of £l5OO, of which the Government have promised £5OO.
Messrs. MacArthur and Co., of Glasgow, have been appointed your selling agents, and the whole of yourship-
™ en ,, are ,’ 3ei .ng disposed of in the open market. The quantity realised upon to date of the books being balanced
(31st March) is small, as the matte shipments are of but recent despatch.
In response to a, request from a large number of shareholders that the shares should be subdivided, your Directors
have called a special general meeting of shareholders, to be held at the conclusion of this meeting to consider the
question.
The directors visited the mine during the past week, and after consultation with the General Manager, a vigorous
policy of systematic development was decided upon. The drives north and south at the 80ft. level are being pushed
forward continuously, and the two winzes sunk to the 160 ft. level. '
Smelting operations are now being conducted continuously, which will ensure you regular monthly dividends.
» h7 OU j , ectors confidently look forward to a considerable enhancement in the value of the mine, arising from
further development work ; and are satisfied that, in addition to maintaining the present output for the smelters, the
ore reserves will be considerably increased. ’
anticipations S^°n ’ '° Ur ® ir ** tors congratulate you upon owning a property that has fully realised the most sanguine
I am, Yours Obediently, JOHN NEWELL, Chairman.
Premier Daglish, in Westralia, is drifting
into trouble. Lately, without warning, he called
on all his colleagues to resign ; some of them were
out of town, and to them he simply wired that
their resignations were wanted at once. When
they arrived he threw out “Mulga” Taylor and
Holman, and took in Bath and Lynch. Works
Minister Johnson, the strongest man in the crowd,
is said to have been behind the shuffle; there was,
anyway, an old feud between him and the two
who were displaced. The change is generally
reckoned to have strengthened the Ministry from
a personal point of view, but the way in which it
was made left a sore behind it—several sores, in
fact.
The revival in Queensland cotton-growing has got
so far as to necessitate the re-starting of the old
ginning mill and factory at East Ipswich to deal
with the present crop. Apropos , H. P. Wynne,
representative of an Oldham (Eng.) firm of textile
machinery makers, who has been visiting the
plantations, told a Melbourne Age interviewer :
From what I have seen of the production of cotton this
season in Queensland I am convinced that, at any rate for
miles around Brisbane, it can be grown to perfection by
white labor. This season the farmers have been able to
get from 1500 to 18001 b. of cotton in seed per acre. It
takes 31b.. in the seed to make lib. of lint. That is a pay-
able yield to the farmer. If you take it at only 12001 b.
to the acre and only allow Id. per lb.—-the farmer is likely
to get ljd. for uplands, and 2d. or 3d. for the long-staple
Sea Islands variety—as the price of cotton in seed, the
farmer gets £5 per acre for his trouble, and that should
be a payable yield.
It certainly should be a payable yield. The
average value of crops in N.S.W. (mostly a white
labor State) is about £2 Bs. per acre, and if £2 Bs.
per acre can pay white men’s wages, £5 should be
able to do it without bursting itself with the strain.
For the eleven months to May 31, 1904,
the N.S.W. loan expenditure on public works
(apart from the Sydney land resumptions) was
£1,614,167. That was under the frantic Owe’
Sullivan regime. For the eleven months to
May, 1905, the amount (apart from resump-
tions) is £1,502,169. That is under the great
Reform party. The difference hardly seems
worth all the perspiration which dropped off the
State in its struggles to get Joe into office. There
was quite a pool of moisture round it by the time
it had got its grand and beneficial and economical
Joe in.
Yes-No Reid didn’t advance his cause
much in Queensland. One of the biggest business
men in Brisbane after the Reid meeting put it
this way :
I went on the platform feeling proud of our champion,
and indignant at the way that the scurrilous Bulletin
attacks him. I came away feeling that he deserved it
all. A meeting ? It wasn’t a meeting: it was a show. I
felt as if I were a chair-warmer at one of Rickards’ variety
shows, looking on while a nigger comedian performed.
Socialism? He didn’t say anything sensible about it.
Here’s a cranky lot of Labor men threatening to ruin the
country, and we’re asked to follow this song and dance
man’s lead in opposing them. Let’s send for George
Lauri.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
'-the-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. 0. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies issued 98,461— assuring £29,270,925
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses -equitably distributed.
Head Office:
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE-
LESLIE J. PARK, J.P., A.1.A., General Manager.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863,
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1021.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,213 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 42,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.- —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
Royal Bank of Queensland
J LIMIT Eli. «
CAPITAL PAID-UP £457,539
RESERVE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS.. 175,812
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Government Stock) 64.00 C
£697,351
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURGH LANE.
16 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 1,000,000
Preference Shares issued to the Crown in
terms of Bank of New Zealand Act
(N.Z.), 1903 .. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £2,000,000
The Bank of |)ortli Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager- Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esc].
J. P. Cannv. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250.900 ... £350,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jhssop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W. N.
M’Farlane ; Brisbane. A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .190,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND and UNDIVIDED
PROFITS (used in Company’s business) £15,122 8 1
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager
Against Damp Air, Chills, Colds
and dangers arising therefrom
FOR SAFETY
WEAR
AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR
Shirts, Pyjamas, &c., &c.
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
UNDERWEAR and other garments in stock and
made to measure, in Cottons, Lisles, Wools, Merinos
and Unions.
m’FuU illustrated Price List Free. TM;
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
75 King Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
nxr. d. l.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Three-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weelts, via BRISBANE, NEW
BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*FRINZ SICISMUND, 3300'tons.. Bth JULY.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons ... .. sth AUGUST.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 2nd SEPTEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Ouisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
T>
Til Try It."
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer.
Qapillarine
Posted (under cover
to any part of Austra.
lasia or New Zealand,
Price, 108. 6d.
SOI.K AQICNTS.
Tht Result,
CRAIG &, AITKEIM. N.S. W. Barber’s Supply
House. 654 CEORQE STREET, SYO.iiY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
hk
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to Sail on or about
Bth JULY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC,
and AERIC to follow.
FAKES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
MILTIADES
A. Douglas
R. McKilliam
T. F. Spalding
Noon, July 8
Noon, July 29
Noon, Aug. 19
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
{3 033 1 ° S.s. Co. -A-. ana A. X-» I 3XT DEI,
NEW TWIN-SCREW STEAMERS—EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, JULY 10.
Via NEW ZEALAND, SOUTH SEAS, SAN FRANCISCO, &c., &c.
FAST PASSENGER SERVICE to AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN,
EUROPE and ROUND THE WORLD.
CHEAP THROUGH FARES TO ENGLAND.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE SUNHY SOLOMONS
o
You may have read, or heard about the “Moresby’s”
Winter Cruises through the charming Western
Pacific. There are a few points we wish to emphasise :
The trip lasts about 50 days and costs you £25 —it
need not cost you a penny more—that is ten shillings
a day. The cruise is through the only part of the
Pacific yet uncivilised. Your home is on the ship
the whole time. Send for “ Holiday Hints.”
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
hk
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon <• all - Classes - of
Security. ————y
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
sfr
❖
BILLS
DISCOUNTED
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress U ury.
3XT.S.-W.
[float de pete D.#I.Co-,Etd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office— HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
mm
Rothwell's yd.
Only Address,
Edward St., Brisbane.
Manufacturers of Masonic
Regalia. Best Quality Blue
Apron and Case, £lls. [3.
4 POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
.t 3l Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d
CANADIAM-AUSTRALIAN LINE
“ALL-RED” ROUTE.
EXCURSION to CANADA -
Art Ocean Trip of 23 Days over the
Smoothest of Seas. The numerous
Ports of Call afford an opportunity
of visiting the Islands of Fiji,
Fanning and Honolulu, Hawaii.
THE RAILWAY JOURNEY IN CANADA IS OVER
FOUR GREAT RANGES OF MOUNTAINS—THE
FINEST SCENERY IN THE WORLD.
THE TICKET INCLUDES EXPENSES ON
STEAMER AND RAIL AND AT NINE OF
THE FINEST HOTELS IN AMERICA.
ONLY £6O.
The Cheapest Excur-
sion of the Season.
NEW TWIN SCREW STEAMER,
MANUKA, S *l L L S YIO .
Next Sailings AUG. 7, SEPT. 4.
JUgP Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. Genera) Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter), Book
of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and card
tricks), The Three Donkies (a good joke), the Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character-
very superior for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love
Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
hg
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH BRITISH
OFFICES :
SOUTH BRITISH CHAMBERS, 12 Bridge St., Sydney,
GEO. H. MOORE, Manager. CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
One of the
Wealthiest Firs
and Marine Insur-
ance Companies
doing business in
Australia, and
noted for its
Promptness and
Liberality ill
Settlements.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, Friday,
June 23. (Transhipping
at Melbourne).
S.S. Coolgardie, Tuesdaj’,
June 27. (Without Tran-
shipment.)
BRISBANE,
MAC KAY,
TOWNSVILLE, >
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Buninyong;, June 24
S.S. Marloo, July 1.
Tfest and Cheapest 110 ate to O old fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
- ______Agents,_C_BßlDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritime s
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY,SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Cnuia
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7.5.
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meat
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
MANILA, CHINA, JAPAN,
. . BY TUB . .
“E. and A.” LINE.
Via QUEENSLAND PORTS and PORT DARWIN.
EVERY CON VEMENCE FOR A TROPICAL VOYAGE.
The Saloon Cabins containing two berths only are all on
UPPER DECK AMIDSHIPS, and are large, cool, and
fitted with Electric Fans.
Through bookings at special rates to Europe via Canada
and the U.S. America.
Forhandbooks and all information apply to the
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney ;
also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Newcastle.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding; Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET.
C.W. CUPIT, Manager.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LAIMGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality.
Hodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comforu and convenience at—
MRS. K)BINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade.
ST. HILDA.
THE Largest and best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, }-hour
by tram. Billiards etc.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger ' Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
The Bulls -in Story 3oolr:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers.
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.


L .Si
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
Melbourne—
NORMAN BROS.
52-58 Elizabeth Street.
Queensland Branch—
H J. DIDDAMS and CO.,
Brisbane.
West Australia —
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building-, Perth.
’ Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER I
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
pleasureTprofit.
inii— m~% ii i
Cyphers Incubators.
THESE world-renowned INCUBATORS are worked on
a new principle. The Regulator is siniply perfect,
and cannot get out of order. Being worked on the Hot
Air principle, they have no tanks to leak. They are self-
ventilated, and are fully guaranteed to bring out lively
and healthy chicks and ducklings. Send for circular.
J. & A. BOYES,
241-243 Elizabeth-street, flelbourne.
k
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
Ih allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu' stion
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years. _ _
LATEST
MfmTT.T.S
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, {q £2.10
good as
Great factory
lear’ance sale at half factory pricet.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily n ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, <fcc.. half prices.
ffiEAB CYCLE CO. Dept. B39
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
DEAFNESS CURED,
ghk
THE AUROPHONE,
the latest and most
Scientific Discovery for
the BELIEF and CUKE of DEAFNESS and HEAD
NOISES. Descriptive Pamphlet sent Free. Address:
THE AUROPHONE CO.,
14 Castlereagh-street, SYDNEY.
ItHEI
DEAF
By using the Wilson Com*
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
Ideaf or suffer from dis-
tressing head noises write
for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress-Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
9
6
(Regd.)
DOES NOT SHRINK.
For Blouses,
Nightdresses,
Pyj amas,
Children’s
Frocks, & c .
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
Sea the label on the Selvedge.
TiS Queen says: ** ‘Viyella* has
borne the test of years; you can
wear it for night-dresses all the
year round.”
From the leading Drapers.’
Visitors to the Old Country
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HOTEL
Queen’s London,S.W?
CONSIDERABLY
ENL A R GEO —NO TED
FOR ITS COMFORT
8l CONVENIENCE
ROYAL
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
«HOTELS IN
L.QNDON
f.
ARE YOU BALD ?
Providing you have a “down” on the scalp, I will guarantee that
CAPILLA HAIR TONIC will make that “down” grow into
strong, healthy hair. All Chemists sell Capilla. 2/6 a bottle;
posted direct, 3/3; full course (6 bottles), 17/3, from W. O.
Richards, Inventor, 164 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“I firmly believe that if the children
were well fed our workhouses, gaols and
asylums, would soon be empty.”
- Sir JOHN GORST, M.P.
ONE CUP
Delicious
OF
PLASMON
COCOA
Equals in nutriment |-lb. Beef or Ten Cups of
ordinary Cocoa.
And is absolutely free from all chemicals.
Aids Digestion. Braces the Nerves.
Invigorates the System.
“It is able to support Life.”— The Lancet.
Beautiful Home Decorations
hk
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOEIN” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent haul wood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOEIN” AIAJMINUM ENAMEL, gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR. FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bobble are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPSTITIOKT.
WINES Bed °"“ J « SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, *O.
Kent Brewery, S TUNE IT,
THE BALLET GIRL
hg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is
The Life, Adventures
and Confesssions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froo, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Looks and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
NERVOUSNESS.
KiOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
JL Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last dis-
covered a SIMPLE MEANS of SELF
CURE, will forward the same, free of
Charge, to anyone interested.
Address! A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
ghkh
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining 1 membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co,, 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Salsam'Anisesd'
lFop
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
. Safe for Children.
TRADEk
MARK
AN IS&&*
all Chemists & Stores. Be sure A
k you get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
v
•k « a
m
Sore Throat, Hoarseness,
Bronchial Troubles,
DISAPPEAR WHEN
CHAMBERLAIN'S COUGH REMEDY
IS USED.
PLEASANT TO TAKE, SOOTHING & HEALING,
ALWAYS CURES
US-i JS±J ..<■»«*
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
v
*
iktent leather boots
GLAZED IN OS M
'' h 'A
• L,
vth *•%*♦*••*"
raSßirc
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM
Black Cream,
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
1 Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
“ Erip ”on a prosperous idiot factory : j
I want to know why some of our legislators don't try to |
make marriasre with a first cousin a crime. If people
hat 6 not got enough themselves the law ought to
help them. I once knew two fanuhes in the same village
the product of intermarrying. In the in their
nnti of six were hopeless imbeciles, most repulsive in uneir
idiocv • and in the other, three out of six were deaf mutes
This sort of thing is right enough royalty where sense
is at a discount, but the rank and file, who have to nusue
for a crust must keep vigorous both in mind and bodj .
There are plenty of other fellows’ cousins knocking about,
and no man is really driven to marry his own cousrn.
A GUARANTEED CURE FOR PILES.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itchin»- Blind Bleeding, or Protruding Piles, no matter
how long standing, or money refunded. Cu « B
cases in six days. This is a new discovery, and it is the
onlv Pile Remedy sold on a positive guarantee, zs. da.
Of all chemists. ? PARIS MEDICINE CO., Temple
Chambers, London, E.C. England.*
In the Commonwealth Gazette (20/5/’O5)
it takes 150 words and three solid inches of space
to announce the appointment of two little polling-
places in Victoria and Tasmania, and the whole
thing begins with the following tremendous cry of
a strong Ex. in his agony :
Commonwealth of Australia, to Northcote,
Governor-General. By his Excellency the Right Honor-
able Henry Stafford, Baron Northcote, Knight Grand
Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael
and Saint George, Knight Grand Commander of the Most
Eminent Order of the Indian Empire, Companion of the
Most Honorable Order of the Bath, Governor-General and
Commander-in-Chief of the Commonwealth of Australia.
Why should not the Commonwealth make brief
but necessary announcements in a businesslike
way ,and why this loud buzzing of the Ply on
the Wheel?
Canvassing by the agents of the Yankee
harvester combine runs something on this line :
“Oh 1 you’ve ordered a ‘ Sunshine ’ (for instance).
Yes; it’s a good machine. We don’t want to run it
down, but we say we have a better one. I’ll just show you
why. When our people thought of sending harvesters to
Australia, they had one of every Australian make sent to
America, and' after studying the construction of all of
them, picked out the best points of each, which are now
embodied in this machine.”
Which is a brazen admission of the piracy of
Australian brains and energy. Not only in
harvesters, but in ploughs, has the same exploiting
been practised. One Yankee firm has representa-
tives travelling about whose boast is that their
plough is the result of an exploiting of every
Australian plough yet invented.
Australian detectives complain bitterly
over the gradually increasing difficulties of their
work. “It takes twice the trouble to get a job
that it did 10 years ago, ” said the leading ‘ ‘ demon
in one State recently. “The young criminals
growing up now won’t open their mouths. At
one time, when a job occurred, I could go round a
few places and get 20 men who’d be only too glad
to earn half-a-sovereign by putting me on. ; But
since, they’ve gradually shut up, and its as
hard to get men who know about a job to talk as
it is to get the man himself.” ‘‘Then theres
honor among Australian thieves?” “Urn, yes,
he replied, sadly, “I suppose you can put it that
way.”
White workers of S’Africa, according to
the cables, are now finding that, as a consequence
of the importation of Chinese labor,
the wages of the white workers have diminished, and the
ratio of whites to colored laborers has been reduced.
The S’African white man of British race seems
to be a very dull sort of person. He killed oft
Kruger to get himself a vote and a better job.
When Kruger was demolished, the vote and the
improved job didn’t turn up, but when the people
who had deceived him once assured him that these
blessings would come when the Chinese arrived,
he believed them again. Now most of him has no
job at all, and no prospect of ever having a vote.
There may be some kind of property franchise
hanging about, but the shoeless unemployed won t
get any of it.
The anti-Socialists in Westralia are seeing
who can yell the loudest for more Socialism.
Mine-owners want cheaper State water, coal
companies want a State subsidy, timber com-
panies want their jarrah carried by the State at a
loss, and the farmers want the whole box of tricks.
They all want to lower wages too. Timber em-
ployers met the men in conference, the other day,
and gave them the choice of taking less wages or
joining in the demand for lower freights. Em-
ployees, against the advice of their road-and-
culvert representatives, said they would neither
consent to a reduction nor take part in a buc-
caneering expedition against the State, which was
a sturdy and notable maintenance of their duty
as citizens against their interests as employees.
“O’Fipp ” ; My latest tailor is a fervent
loyalist, mainly because King Ned once spoke to
him. Working as cutter for a London firm, he
had the peerless privilege of cutting a coat for the
then Prince of Wales, and “the Prince was most
affable —such a gracious manner.” The tailor has
a photo of himself, with the royal coat hanging
over his arm, in a prominent position in his shop.
He never tires of telling people all about it. Of
such is the kingdom of crawl.


AUSTRALIAN FOOTBALL.
SOUTH MELBOURNE v. FITZROY
Sydney Cricket Ground, June 24th, at 3 p.m.
METROP. v. NORTHERN DISTRICTS at 1.15 p.m.
H. CHESNEY HARTE, Hon, Secretary.
Liver Complaint
Promptly Cured ry Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.
“ Some time ago I suffered from headache and
biliousness,” says Mrs. E. Chapman, 24 Princess-
street, Sydney, “ which finally ended in liver
complaint, so the doctors told me. I underwent)
treatment from various ones, but no relief could I
find. My back was very bad, and finally I had to
give up work. At the same time I was very badly
affected with the various ailments that women are
subject to. I really began to give up all hope, and
felt that life was not worth living ; but relief came
when I was persuaded to take a course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills; from that hour I have
never been without them. I can say without fear
that they completely cured me, for I am now able
to work without trouble, regular in habits, and I
confidently recommend them to all women
similarly troubled, and I know there are hundreds.
I am only too glad to be able to give this testimony.
I may also state that my husband has derived
great benefit from taking the pills.”*
!
E. RESOH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General,
Absolutely Pure. Mo Preservatives.
Brewekt and Offices:
DOWLING ST., KEDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The second test-match started at Lords’ Ground
on Thursday last in weather described as lovely. The
English were at the wicket. Hayward was the first to
leave (l.b.w. for 16), but the start was an excellent one
and the day closed with eight English wickets
down for 258, of which Maclaren had made 56 off
his own. Rain fell through the night, but Friday
was a beautiful day. Before noon, the English innings
had closed for 282, Fry’s 73 being top score. Australia
started fairly well, running up 110 for four wickets ; then
the wicket began to dry, which favored the bowlers. A
slump set in, five wickets fell for 50 runs, and the
side was out for 181. The English second innings
started 101 to the good, and found Maclaren again in
excellent form, and he knocked up 79 before Armstrong
bowled him. Fry came out strongly, too, and at the end
of the day they had five wickets down for 151 runs.
Saturday brought heavy rain to the rescue of the kan-
garoos, and by reducing the wicket to a slough, made a
drawn game of what would otherwise almost certainly
have been a decisive defeat.
• * « »
The continued failure of “demon”
trundler Cotter has brought about its own reward—
exclusion from the second test match. Cotter was
drafted into the team as the last hope, but thus far he
has failed dismally, having taken (up to the second test)
only 23 wickets at an average of 29'34. With the excep-
tion of maiming a couple of players, Cotter hasn’t even
created a sensation, and all the praise of the London
sporting papers is wasted.
* * * *
How these cricketers do run to journalism !
Frank Iredale is “doing’’the Australian XI. for London
Daily Mail ; L. O. S. Poidevin writes it up for Sydney
Referee ; and now the London correspondent of Sydney
Telegraph announces that Trumper will exercise his
injured back as representative for London Daily
Chronicle. When the team left, manager Laver declared
with emphasis, that none of the members would be
allowed to act as newspaper correspondents. Does this
mean that Trumper has definitely retired from the team,
or that Laver’s back is injured also ?
• # # *
Ex-Australian captain Murdoch called the
Surrey match “ Weary Willie cricket.”
• * * *
Understood that the Maoriland Government is
aiding and abetting a proposal to import an English
cricket team next year as a sort of side show in connec-
tion with the International Exhibition to be held at
Christchurch.
• • • *
The first match against the Maoriland “Soccer ”
f ootballers found both teams lacking somewhat in com-
bination. Still, play was interesting, and sometimes very
pretty ; and the kicking, though occasionally ill-judged,
was in itself very clean. Although the Sydney Metro-
politan team won by three goals to two, it was anybody’s
game almost to the end, and the even balance of things
was indicated by the fact that all the scoring was done in
the first half. By the time the second spell was begun
the teams had dropped down to one another’s little ways,
and although play was fast and strenuous, but somewhat
too individualistic, neither side managed to score. The
Maoriland men seems to be suffering from want of com-
bined practice, and, by the time they have had it, they
will be certainly a very formidable lot. The Cornstalks
have seriously jeopardised their chances by leaving the
picking of their teams till the last minute.
*r W m #
Saturday’s round of Rugby in Sydney saw the
still undefeated Glebe roll up the struggling Eastern
Suburbs by 10 to nil; and at the Sports Ground South
Sydney, which is only one point behind the victorious
Glebe, demolished Balmain by 12 to 3. Next Saturday
Glebe and South Sydney meet. The South Sydney backs
impress this writer as being better than those of Glebe,
but the Glebe pack is just as superior to that of South
Sydney, and it ought to be a game worth going far to see.
Sydney District came to utter smash at the feet of New-
town, which trampled it in the mud at Rushcutters’ Bay
by 10 to nil. At the Uni. Oval the Varsity went down
before North Sydney by 7 to 3, and but for the lack of
ioncerted play between the Northmen’s back and for-
ward divisions the downfall would have been much worse.
The result of the day’s battling was to put Glebe and
South Sydney further in front than ever ; Glebe now
heads the list with 13 points, and South Sydney is running
close with 12. Then come North Sydney, Newtown and
Western Suburbs with nine each. If Glebe wins the
match next week against South Sydney, the chances are
that some of the club will take to drink—if it loses, they
may suicide.
* * * *
At last, and at the boots of Redfern, the vic-
torious career of the Y.M.O.A. came to a stop on Satur-
day. Their high kicking hampered them against the
wind, and Redfern, which was playing in its own back-
yard, won by two points, the final scores being 54 to 52.
The Redferns scored 7 goals 12 behinds and the Good
Young Men 8 goals 4 behinds, which, as the cat naturally
remarked when it felt the dog’s breath on its tail as it
fled over the fence, was mighty close. Two other winners
under Australian rules were Newtown, which beat Syd-
ney by 41 to 20 ; and East Sydney, which just managed to
finish 6 points ahead of Paddington, the beaten side
making 24 to the victors’ 30. But it was reserved
for Balmain to supply the slaughter, the untidy suburb
with the questionable smell wrecking West Sydney at
the rate of 99 to 4. This leaves Y.M.O.A. still at the head
of the competition list with one win more than Sydney,
the next best on the roll. There will be no club matches
under Australian rules in Sydney next Saturday. That
day has been given up to the struggle between Fitzroy
and South Melbourne teams, which will be played at Syd-
ney Cricket Ground for educational purposes. After
watching the Australian game for a reasonable time, this
writer has come to the conclusion that it is rougher and
more dangerous than Rugby. On the other hand, the
referees under Australian rules are much quicker to
detect foul play, and more prompt to exercise their
authority than the present Rugby men. If the Rugby
fellows did their work half as well there would be few
charges of rough play. It would be too costly.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugbyite Stan. Wickham will be
taking a jubilee, or something, shortly, having kept his
place for 10 consecutive years—since 1895. He is a three-
quarter-back of credit and renown, and has captained the
State team on more than one occasion.
♦ * # *
Wellington (M.L.) Rugby Union intends dis-
couraging cannibalism as far as possible—so it says. A
case which is alleged to have happened during a recent
match is under investigation at time of writing. The
general presumption is that the gentleman hadn’t lunched
before the game started.
* * « *
Maoriland is saved ! The great army of Rugby
exponents in that country won’t need to worry in their
cots at night over their rep. team in England, for it has
been definitely decided to send “ Jimmy ” Duncan as
coach. As a 'man has been knocked off the 26 billed to
go, in order to allow the bald-headed veteran to join,
“Jimmy” may don a jersey in many a match ere he re-
turns. He has been showing all his old-time dash at
Dunedin this season, and is better than the vast majority
in the team. The only thing urged against Duncan is that
he’s a working man, and this element has hitherto been
strictly excluded from the high-toned combination.
* * * *
Southland (M.L.) Rugby Union likes to hear
its own voice holding forth to offending pursuers of the
muddy sphere. Culprits have hitherto taken the dis-
qualification without attending, but it is now decreed
that a suspended player must turn up at the hearing* of
his case, or at least before his term of disqualification
expires, in order that he may be spoken to in a deep
voice.
“P.” : Watching two boys’ teams playing foot
ball in a Sydney suburb, the other day, I noticed that,
generally, players were booted as to the right foot, naked
as to the left. The football is very hard on the bare toe,
and only about half of each team possessed boots; so
those with boots divided with the bootless for the game—
any shortage being made up by the barrackers. Fit was
amicably arranged between teams, blokes with large feet
lending their lefts to coves who took ’em several sizes
smaller. The arrangement looked awkward, but seemed
to act well enough. I saw one little cove with a large
left boot kick a goal in brilliant fashion.
* * * *
The V.R.C. takes very little risk of making a
bad handicap for the Grand National Hurdle Race. The
race is due on July Ist, and the weights were not pub-
lished until June 12th.
• • • •
In the action for damages brought by book-
maker Sluice against Adelaide Racing Club officials for
forcible removal from the course whilst laying the odds,
Justice Homburg found for the defendants. He
held that the ejectment was within the club’s rights; the
fact of plaintiff purchasing an entry ticket no more
entitling him to use the club premises for his betting busi-
ness than it gave a rabbito or bottlo the right to use
them for his vociferous rabbit or bottle occupation.
• » * »
Merrion, by winning the Toolambool Hurdle at
Caulfield last Saturday, followed in the footsteps of stable
companion Marmont, who took the same race in 1903
before winning the Grand National. Marmont then
carried 41b. more than his weight for the bigger event,
and Merrion did likewise the other day. Which doesn’t
alter the fact that Marmont’s burden was 211 b. less than
Merrion’s. A stone and a half is a big difference over the
Grand National course, and even supposing that Merrion
is as good to-day as the “ crack ” hurdler was two years
ago, the race looks pretty open as far as the mare is con-
cerned. All the same, she ought to beat Orlando again
on recent “form.”
» * * *
Was Merrion born a male or a female ? Yol. 17
of Miller’s Racing Chronicle describes Merrion as a mare,
but in Vol. 19 the animal appears as a gelding.
• * * *
David James, of Adelaide, who won the Mel-
bourne Cup with the mare Auraria, years ago, is sending
two of her progeny to Flemington to be trained by Dick
Bradfield. Auraria thusfar has been a disappointment as
a stud matron, although she comes of a brilliant family,
and her own performances were fine examples of game-
ness combined with speed. The Auraria and Wallace
“dead heat,” after they had respectively won the Cup
and Derby, is remembered as a wonderful struggle.
* * # *
Lord Rosebery’s third Derby winner (Cicero)
had a backer who took £30,000 to £lO,OOO about the colt
in one wager previous to his winning the Newmarket
Stakes, a few days before the classic race. Punters of
that sort may get along prosperously if they are backing
an honest jockey as well as a good horse, owned by a
swell owner. Scandalous cases of jostling or blocking are
seldom or never heard of in connection with favorites
from powerful stables in the Cold Country. But the indi-
vidual rider, of course, is likely to be approached by a
bookmaker who has accepted a wager of £30,000 to £lO,OOO
on Lord Muck’s terracotta colt Coughdrop. And sooner
or later the plunging punter risks his thousand “quids”
upon an animal that isnlt owned by a Rosebery sort of
lord, and then the swindle is fixed up quite easily. Thirty
or forty years ago the father of the present Lord Dudley
amused himself—he was a tired person who grew his hair
long to conceal the loss of his ears—by backing “dead-
birds” for as much as twenty and thirty thousand pounds
at a time. At first it seemed like picking up money, but
pretty soon the “good things” began to suffer from
“extraordinary reversals of form.” Then the tired Earl
turned away from horseracing, and took to spiritualism
or something.
* * * *
The great scarcity of lightweight jockeys in
Maoriland was touched upon by G. G. Stead at the annual
meeting of the Canterbury J.O. Stead puts it down to
the fact that during the past generation Maoriland youths
had been well and properly fed and reared under im-
proved sanitary conditions, with the result that they
were relatively far heavier than their badly-fed compeers
in England of two or three generations back. Stead advo-
cates raising the minimum weight in handicaps to 7st.,
in preference to lowering the dwarf boy to the present
minimum.
* * * *
The Melbourne police have of late gone to
enormous trouble and expense to suppress the betting
shops that have recently sprung up, like Jonah’s vege-
table, all over city and suburbs. Nearly all are run in
tobacconists’, hairdressers’ or lollie shops, and the Ikey
responsible pays either starting prices (as per daily paper)
or tote prices (the div. returned by Wren’s Collingwood
tote). Wren is supposed to finance many of these gam-
bling places, they being, it is suspected, only branches of
the big barricaded establishment that has so long defied
the law. To get over the judicial decision that a solitary
wager, or even two or three, do not prove a place to have
been “ habitually ” used for betting, the police have for
months past been accumulating evidence, themselves
making as many as a dozen wagers in each place, and be-
tween June 14th and 28th over 100 occupiers and their
assistants will interview the city or suburban courts
about the matter. Three “places,” so far, defy the Law
and that decrepit entity has as yet discovered no way
of getting at them. The conductors of these have
formed limited liability companies, and registered
themselves under the Companies Act. Learned and
expensive lawyers were employed to draw up the
articles of association, and so far their position has
proved impregnable. Each co. has a share register of
very many shares at 2s. each—to be fully paid up on
allotment. Directors are regularly elected, a manager
appointed, and everything is in strict commercial order.
The “ objects ” of the co. include “ the assistance of horse-
racing," “ the purchase of racecourses and other proper-
ties,” and “ anything else calculated to advance the in-
terests of the members of the company”—which latter is
wide and large enough to cover almost any object under
the sun. These three are nominally genuine public com-
panies, formed for a legal, useful purpose; but, in effect,
anyone may go in, buy one share at 25., and so become a
member of the company, then pass into the co.’s back
office and “ assist horse-racing.”
* * # #
N.S.W. is rich in young racehorses this season
—4O of 124 entered for Maribyrnong Plate have been
nominated by that State.
* * * •
The tout and the other animal who goes to
Randwick in the' small hours of the morning, when the
burglar is just turning in ; , are much impressed with
Maoriland horse Machine Gun. He has a fine appearance
and a fair record, having won 12 times in 19 starts, and
accumulated £4165 prize-money in three seasons.
* * * *
If this country ever replaces the horse with the
motor it will give the “ poor farmer ” a considerable lift.
European motor builders have discovered that, so long as
one doesn’t want to break records, alcohol is as good as
gasoline or petrol for fuel, and. it has the advantage of
being cheaper, easier to handle, and obtainable any where.
Alcohol for industrial and locomotive purposes means
vast crops of potatoes, and potatoes are what the Free-
trade papers call one of “ our great primary industries.”
- * * T *
Beach beat Gaudaur, Gaudaur beat Stanbury,
Towns beat Gaudaur, and now Beach trains Stanbury to
beat Towns.
* * * *
Premier Bent has announced that the “bloomin’
cyclists” who injure the roads of Victoria should be taxed.
Before the cyclists can injure the roads, Bent or his
Kyabramite shire councils will have to make some roads
to be injured. Anyhow, no road that is properly made
can possibly be cut up by a bicycle. It’s the “poor
farmer” that Bent will have to come at with a Width of
Tyres Act. A good idea would be to levy a wheel tax,
and spend the whole of the money on making a few real
roads.
.** * *
The automobile racing track at Aspendale
Park (Vic.) is now completed, and must have cost J. R_
Orooke a power of money. It is a mile in circumference,
nicely banked at the corners, and wide enough for several
cars to ride abreast- Although a motor-bike negotiated
it in lmin. 37sec. recently, after the heavy rain, the pro-
prietor does not intend to let anyone officially risk his
neck on it till Melbourne Cup week, when it will be
formally opened by a big automobile race meeting.
An inventive genius at Dunedin (M.L.) put
together a steam carriage about 24 years ago. It was a
rather cumbrous affair, but could achieve 33 miles an
hour. The vehicle was sent to Christchurch Exhib.tion
before the rubber tyres arrived from England, and the
iron rims gave out, the show collapsing on the Port
Hills. The boiler is now in use by a Dunedin sausage
merchant.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cyclists Union inter-club road-race
premiership event should be a good one. The prelimi-
nary heats will be over 20 miles, semi-finals over 30 miles,
and final over 40 miles. The winning club will thus have
to keep its nose on the front tyre for 90 miles.
* * * *
Just at present negro cyclist Major Taylor is in
the soup. This pious man used to say that when he rode
he could feel another foot beside his own on the pedal,
but apparently the other party has taken his foot off
lately, for quite recently Major started explaining that
it was just possible that he might not fulfil his engage-
ment to race Kramer at the World’s Championship meet-
ing. Kramer, who is anxious to meet Taylor, appealed to
the Yankee governing body, and it promptly called upon
Taylor to give an assurance that he would fulfil his
written engagement. Taylor told the Council to mind its
own interference, and the Council retorted with a
suspension that blocks his racing anywhere in the world,
till he makes up his mind what he is going to do. Taylor
will now climb down if he wants to make any more money
on the track—if he doesn’t, he will stick his chest out,
and pose in the limelight as a martyr driven out of the
game in his prime. He has a very comfortable home at
Worcester, and is quite affluent enough to spend the rest
of his days driving round in his motor car to collect his
rents. His wife, who was greatly scared when Lawson
upset him in Melbourne, has been very anxious for him to
retire from the track before he gets broken, and this
latest development may incline him to grant her wish.
“Doping and firing” of dogs was much in evi-
dence during the running of the Waterloo Cup at Rooty
Hill. Watchful stewards and an experienced vet. were
quite unable to compete with the “ smart ” men who ran
the dogs, so they just delayed the slipping till the effects
of the drug had fizzled out, and left the loaded animals
limp and much below their regular form. Then the
runners changed their tactics and doped the dogs they
wanted to lose ; and again fell in with a plunk, as the
dog they wanted to lose more than any other was strong
enough to win in spite of the fact that he was “ crooked.”
* * * *
The City-Redfern hurling match on Saturday
last, at Moore Park (Sydney), was a great game. Last
time they met the City won after a very strenuous
struggle. Having won the toss, Redfern played with a
wind that blew straight down the field into the City goal.
What with the powerful breeze and the ferocity of the
attack the City was blown right out, and in less than
three minutes the men from McGowen’s electorate had
secured a goal and a point. The City pulled itself
together, and belted the bung to some purpose, but Red-
fern came again and lifted the score to eight points
(2 goals, 2 points). City got frantic, and, having tight-
ened its belt, managed to keep the ball in the middle of
the field for a while, but the wind blew harder and half-
time found Redfern 14 points and the City with a blank
sheet. With the change of end the City improved, but
only a little, and the game ended in a victory for Redfern
by 22 to 5 points.
* * *
Paddington and Woollahra, the two undefeated
baseball teams which are running neck and neck with 14
points each in the competition, meet next Saturday at
Rushcutter’s Bay, and people who are interested in this
curious form of amusement will get some excitement out
of it. It is always interesting when two unbeaten teams
meet to decide which is Jonah.
* * » *
The defeat of North Sydney lacrosse team by
Marrickville was not unexpected, for the Marrickvillers,
who have developed speed escaping from floods, were
both fast and facile with their sticks. In fact, it was the
best exhibition the Marrickvillers have yet put up. On
the other hand, the Shoremen were trying out some colts
who, although they played up well, were not at home,
and naturally thereby destroyed the combination of the
team, and Marrickville won by five goals to one. Burwood
went across to Balmain and got defeated by exactly the
same score. The Water-rats played a first-class offensive
game, one of those sustained attacks against which the
only defence is to secure the ball and become the attack-
ing party in turn, and the big capitalists from Burwood
were not able. Burwood goal-keeper Henriques, a full-
back on whom there are no winged insects, played the
game, but the fast passing of the Loutit brothers for
Balmain beat him.
Clarence Weber has undertaken to put the
wrestling championship on a white basis. He is to meet
Buttan Singh at Fitzgerald’s Circus building, Melbourne,
on July Ist, and the black man has signified his confidence
in his Hindu self by putting up £3O against Weber’s £25.
with the proviso that the winner is to draw a clear £lOO
of “gate” (if it’s in the house) before the loser gets any
percentage whatever. Which suggests that Buttan
doesn’t quite understand what sort of an expert Weber
has become since Hackenschmidt educated him.
* * * *
Hackenschmidt is a rare combination of muscle-
man, real champion wrestler, true “sport” and level-
headed show-worker. His recent match with Tom
Jenkins in New York revealed the full strengthof Hackey
as a tactician. Last year he met Jenkins in London and
beat him after “ playing light ” with the Yank, champion
for 17 minutes. When he got to America a while ago he
allowed his old antagonist to chase him with challenges
until they had arrived at New York where the big gate-
money comes from, and there the nuggetty “Russian
Lion” consented to a match. Result a couple of pro-
tracted bouts—3l minutes and 22 minutes respectively—
both of them ending in the foreigner’s favor, but neither
of them calculated to break the heart of the local idol.
Probably the utter discomfiture of Jenkins will come
when his friends back him for a big sum to last out 10 or
15 minutes against Hackey, who always plays to win, but
is seldom tempted to chuck his opponent rightaway as he
did Gunga Brahm at Melbourne Exhibition building.
The lightheartedness of the Russian helps to make him
the clever general he is. He has a twinkling eye
for business and a lively sense of humor. For instance,
there’s the story of the inflexible small boy whom
he met at Frankston one Sunday, when he was the
guest of Syd Day, the Melbourne printer. They had no
milk in the house, and when tea-time drew near Day
(with Hackey) journeyed forth on his motor-car to get
milk. A very small urchin came along bearing a jug-full
of the liquor they were looking for, and Day, dismounting
from his car, tried to do a deal. “Sonny ” couldn’t be in-
duced to trade. The milk was for a customer, and he
daren’t sell it at any price. At last, when the nipper had
refused an offer of half-a-crown, Hackenschmidt crept up
to Day on tip-toe and said in a bloodthirsty whisper:
“ Let us both togeder knock der feller down und take it.
Ve can escape on der motor-car.”
* * • *
“Uppercut” : Supporters of the rival systems
of German and English-speaking races in physical
development overlook the fact that the respective ends
of the two systems differ. Germany, with its heavy,
laborious weight-lifting and gymnastic training, aims at
strength—plain, muscle-bound strength' and a race of
blocks, who require a crane and tackle to turn them
round. The British system of athletics' makes for
activity. I have no doubt whatever that the gymnasium-
made man is much stronger than the average boxer,
footballer or oarsman, but he would be a hopeless man in
any one of those sports. In wrestling, a game slow' in
its movements, and in which strength is a great
factor, the bloeky foreign person is perhaps supreme, but,
in games of speed, the Germanic and Slavonic races have
yet done nothing, and never will under their present
policy. Whatever advertisers of various systems of phy-
sloal oulfcure say, every man who has studied the game
knows that slow strength-making exercises make a man
muscle-bound. Hackenschmidt was a freak in activity,
but he is the only one of all the strong men who can
move without hurting himself in the job. Further, in
spite of the big, lumbering strength-machines that the
German gymnasiums turn out, their effects are not uni-
form. The German sailors on visiting warships, for
instance, are not in it as regards physique with the
shapely, active, little British tars. My own opinion is
that the two systems should be brought together. Weedy
children, not able to hold their own at athletics, now
drop out and get no exercise at all. These might well be
built into strong, if slow, healthy men and women, while
the German system might well be relaxed in favor of the
Britishers’ games. In a properly-governed community, a
Government medical officer should have power to seize
any stooping, anaemic boy or girl—especially girl—and
send him or her for six months to a State physical culture
school, where nothing would be taught but bodily deve-
lopment.
* * * *
The George Johns-Al. Neil fight for the welter-
weight championship was a good fight with an unsatis-
factory' decision. Johns’ footwork was excellent, and
saved the local man much punishment; on the other
hand, Neil’s smothering tactics were just as effective, and
the American was the favorite for the greater part of the
battle, which went the full length. At the end referee
Ford said, “ I must give it to Johns on the punishment
meted out.” Which was utterly ridiculous. There was
practically no punishment. Neil was bleeding slightly
from the bridge of t,he nos? and the upper lip, through
the opening of only partially-healed cuts received while
training. Punishment there was none, and, anyhow, it
is points, not punishment, that count while both men are
on their feet and able to continue. The decision is the
most absurd ever delivered in a Sydney bruising hall.
* * * *
Sydney Gaiety Athletic Hall will not require
much cleaning up after the brief and mild Frost-Lenton
disturbance on Saturday night, for the affair left no traces
behind it save a loud odor of fish. Lenton started as
though anxious to impress the house with the deadliness
of his intentions, whirling his arms, stamping his feet, and
making most amazing faces. Mr. Frost did not seem to
be much impressed, but poked the man from the bone-
mill district familiarly in the ribs. In the second round,
Mr. Lenton was apparently tired; and Mr. Frost, who
was politeness itself, refrained from bustling him in any
way. So they just revolved round one another till the
gong sent them to their corners guiltless of nose-blood.
Requests from the audience that they wouldn’t die of old
age on the premises cheered them up somewhat in the
third campaign ; and Mr. Lenton let his right glove fall
on Mr. Frost’s neck with amazing results. The hardy
battler from Newtown fell as though trodden on by
elephants. When he got up and staggered about
the ring, Mr. Lenton made at him, and whirled
his fists in a terrifying manner; but Frost grabbed
his enemy and embraced him till the gong went. At
the sound of the armistice Frost fell off Lenton as a dead
fish drops off a rock. While they were in their corners
anxious sports begged to be taken up at any price on
Frost, who had gone to his chair apparently almost
unable to stand, but nobody took any notice. The fourth
round saw Lenton tap Frost on the side of his nose, and
again the man from Newtown heeled over like a sinking
battleship. Lenton whirled his fists and rushed at him,
and the sinking Frost gave a grunt and an uppercut.
Lenton turned up his eyes just as Csesar did when Brutus
assassinated him, and sank on the floor. Frost was de-
clared winner. It was a fearful and wonderful exhibition.
* * * *
Announced in the United States that the gentle
ex-boiler-maker will retire from the heavyweight cham-
pionship of the world, the ring, and the stage simultane-
ously. This is in deference to the wishes of Mrs. Jeffries,
who has always had an aversion to the prize-ring, and
who now finds that James is in far more danger in the
green-room than on the athletic club premises. Ever
since Jeffries appeared as Davy Crockett he has been
rushed by affectionate women and overwhelmed with
baskets of letters, and the maids have been unable to get
the housework done through rushing to the door to take
in flowers. And Mrs. Jeffries has got tired —so Jimmy
will go into the corn business, or something equally prosy.
» * * *
“Jab.”: The blow with which McCall doubled
up Dan Oreedon was similar to that with which Bob Fitz-
simmons sent Corbett to rest, in the match for the cham-
pionship of the world. If it is fairly delivered it is impos-
sible to recover from it within the allotted 10 seconds.
Through fear of injuring that game shoulder of his,
McCall has developed a right half-arm drive that comes
from the side and is about as nice a thing to meet as the
rush of a locomotive.
Ted Nelson, the Australian pug., beat Jack
Lalor at Jo’burg last month, and such is human nature,
the Britishers are adopting a slightly more reverential
tone towards “ those Australians.” Nelson, adopting a
sort of Yankee crouch, open style, rushed things as if he
were on a contract to level Lalor’s face down. Lalor was
the S’African middleweight champion.
A Yankee parson, one Dr. Watson, has
been apologising in Maoriland for Noah’s drink-
ing habits. The gentleman with the twang says
that from the time of Adam down to that of Noah
there was no “ actin ” in the atmosphere, and
hence no corruption or fermentation. Alcohol
was, therefore, an unknown quantity, and the
juice of the grape before the Flood was harmless.
Noah, not being acquainted with the altered con-
dition of things, got deplorably drunk. This
theory isn’t supported by a bottle of the atmo-
sphere previous to Noah, nor does it explain how
anybody died previous to Noah. And it involves
the theory that all the men and animals who died
up to then only began to decay in Noah’s day,
which must have been rough on Noah.
“Hamer” : In the mildew of evening the
man who pulls the rubbish out of city dust-bins
and piles it on the pavement begins his search for
an existence. He has some queer finds. One of
the fraternity, the other day, told me that about
the best find he ever had was a double set of false
teeth embedded in a very bad apple ; but others
had chanced upon various pieces of jewellery.
Whole cigars are often discovered, and a complete
bottle of brandy is a recorded find. My informant
hadn’t come on any brandy that day, but he had
just had an exhilarating drink of methylated
spirits.


SMOKED 40 YEARS
AND NEVER
MET
M W.illH'M.
m
ragin' /
r.:
w
*m
'Hi
wi
CIGAR TO
EQUAL THEM.”
Mr, HENDERSON, J.P., writes
II
“Effingham, Crawley Down, Sussex.
“Dear Sir, —Thank you for so kindly sending my flarsuma Cigars. Having
smoked for something like 40 years, I can safely say 1 have never met with one to
equal them.—Vours truly, “J. HENDERSON.”
The Marsuma has already the largest sale of any cigar in England. Its intrinsic merit has recommended it
everywhere. A cigar that has received praise from Lord Kitchener, Sir Henry Irving, Right Honorable the
Earl of Dunraven, Sir Edmund Barton, and the hundreds of other well-known men, must be something out
of the ordinary.
«AN U PAc =L AT_ HfI y ANNA (Mear Congle ton), ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES—
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & COMPANY , SYDNEY
SOFTENS THE
HARSHEST BEARD
k
hgh
My
i Silent
Partner,
WILLIAMS’
BARBERS’ BAR.
Every Bar weighs 17 Honest
English Ounces, divided into 6 Cakes.
NOT SOLD IN SLICES.
232 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., Brisbane,
Sole Agents for Queensland.
Send a penny stamp for Williams’
Pocket Triplet Key Ring, three tools in
one. You will never be without it.
9
WON’T DRY ON
THE FACE.
JL
1)
VeryOldVattei
-"" it »
k
Liqueur Whisky:
Distilled by
Kilmarnock, Scotland.
%
BBBIgt
'LI OR the person who is not a millionaire, there is ONLY
-£ ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT in SYDNEY.
That is “ Ellis’ King Street Coffee Palace,” ~mg
situated at 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office. Proprietor — GEO. IF. ELLIS,
IV. IV. GREENER’S
World-Renowned GUNS
ghk
Awarded Grand Prize,
St. Louis Exposition, 1904.
GREENER’S
CLUB RIFLES 310 & 297/230
Best in the market for Kangaroo
and Ladies’ Rifle Clubs.
All Riflemen should read “ For Sport and
War,” by W. W. GREENER. 180 Pages,
100 Illustrations, Posted 1/2.
GREENER’S GUNS and RIFLES—a Large
Stock on hand.
Catalogues and Price Lists on application
C. W. BUCKLAND,
317 Collins Street, Melbourne
(Greener’s Representative)
C. Stratmann’s *
Made oh the
Premises
FINE...
CHOCOLATES and
SWEETHEATS
124 PITT STREET, Fresh Every Day.
SYDNEY, Next to Lawson’s Auction Room.
Missing Friends.
NICOL (WILLIAM KNIGHT) left Edin-
burgh for Queensland about 1882. Went
to Brisbane, afterwards proceeded to Sydney.
Supposed to have died at Sydney at end of 1888
or in 1889. Any person who can give any
information whether he is living or dead please
communicate with
MUIR WILSON, Solicitor,
Sheffield, England.
ASK rM|B[
FRANZ JOSEF LACER
PURE, WHOLESOME and INVIGORATING. Thera is Nothing Better.
BECAUSE A MAN LIVES
in the country there is no reason why he cannot be as well dressed as the
city folk. Write to the Leading Sydney Tailor for Patterns, Measurement
Forms, etc. Suits delivered free to any Post Office in Australasia.
NO FACTORY WORK.
E. T. WALSH, MercbaQt Tailor,
359 GEOR6E STREET, SYPNEY.
v 7
m
WmmM
m
V
V
S'
f|§
V
S
' p i>c£OP
°oo., i
S'
S'
«c f
**>
** J,
r
Qi'a/'S* «? ,t *** , **i. 1*
w *-'*>>»*' cit 7 -
if s **<* **»«
'*«C
*>v
**»
®o 0
ipp
***.
L, Ca
Op
r ‘OH
6 "ty
•“a
•t> t
e '<*
**io
V
I
N.S.W. Depot i 150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Fatman and His Charity.
An Adelaide correspondent writes :
At the last election for the Torrens the Labor party ran
five direct Labor men for the five seats, and captured the
lot, thereby throwing' out Darling, our leader, a most
useful man, and one of the few who honestly don’t care to
grab for office. Now one hears in various quarters the
suggestion : “ Well, button up your pockets for a bit.
We who have money subscribe heavily to keep on foot a
Children’s Hospital, local-trained nursing and clothing
guilds, and other charities which are almost entirely for the
benefit of the Labor people. They think they can do
without us. Let them try it.” Well, this seems, if not
mean, at any rate, an unsportsmanlike way of taking a
licking. But is there any satisfactory reply to it ? The
privilege of ruling has always carried with it the obliga-
tion to be charitable. With the privilege rapidly vanish-
ing, does the obligation continue? Can The Bulletin
give a satisfactory answer ; not a sneering or a fighting
answer, but one that would tend to convince anyone with
an open mind on the question ?
Emphatically The Bulletin cannot give an answer
which is not a “sneering” or a “fighting” one.
When it is suggested that because the Adelaide
citizens elect to Parliament the men whose views
they agree with, the rich men of Adelaide should
button up their pockets and leave sick children to
perish in the streets, it is hardly possible to be
cool and polite. By what strange sarcasm was the
Tory party dubbed “the gentlemen’s party ”? In
our correspondent’s question there is one valuable
hint to the Democratic party abolish the
“ charity ” system in regard to hospitals and
asylums ! Make them the direct care and charge
of the State and tax the rich man for their support.
His voluntary charity is, but too often, the dole he
pays to proselytise you, the sop with which he
expects to buy your independence and debase you
to the level of the serfs. Do away with the
necessity of private charity. You may still leave
it plenty of avenues for doing good, but don’t run
the risk of Patman shutting up the Children’s
Hospital because you vote Labor.
♦
The S.M. Herald had a reminiscence last week
in the course of an article on “ ship-building ” :
The percentage of locally-built craft trading on the
coast, however, is very small, and no vessel of 500 tons
has yet been built in Australia. Through a variety of
causes, but principally on account of the high rates of
wages existing in this part of the world, the shipbuilding
industry has not made that progress which might have
been expected.
Upwards of 30 years ago an iron screw steamer of 487
tons was built and engined here (in Sydney) for the
Queensland mail and passenger service, but no vessel
approaching her size has since been constructed in any
of the Australian ports. The steamer in question is the
Governor Blackall, built at Mort’s Dock, and now success-
fully running in the coal trade, while numbers of other
vessels built at home (in England) at the same time have
long since been consigned to the scrap heap. The Gover-
nor Blackall was a speedy vessel of 13 knots, and in her
prime was one of the most popular vessels on the Austra-
lian coast.
It is therefore evident from this fact that we can build
vessels here equally as well as the great yards at home (in
England), and the only question is one of cost. The plant
at Mort’s Dock to-day is capable of turning' out any iron or
steel steamship up to 1000, or perhaps, 1500 tons, and
there is an ample supply of skilled workmen here. Still,
with wages 80 per cent, above those ruling at home (in
England), and other severe handicaps, the local works are
unable to compete for the construction of vessels to be
employed in our own trade.
The Federal Labor men might do a think —a
large, deep, brown think —over this. Will they
reduce wages to the European level, or will they
go in for High Protection, or will they kill off
Australian industry ? There is no fourth alterna-
tive. “Sinking the fiscal issue ” isn’t an alterna-
tive. It is only a ridiculous burying of the head
in the sand and cocking of the tail up in the air.
Dr. Murphy, R.C. Archbishop of Hobart,
was born on the day of Waterloo, June 18, 1815,
and is therefore in his 91st year. Half a century
ago it was said that he could not live another 12
months. His is the oldest mitre in Christendom,
he having been consecrated in 1846. Dr. Murray,
of Maitland, was consecrated in 1866.
The sex has arrived at the conclusion that fine
clothes do not a figure make. The Corset is the thing—
not any old thing of bone and canvas, but the one mould
of 1905 form branded P.D. on the off-side. It must have
those particular letters to ensure a shape something like
the sculptured Venus Verticordia. Cast in such a mould,
almost any she-person may claim some grace and some
seductive lines. Let lovely woman have the sense to
walk abroad in a P.D. corset, and manifest her most
lasting beauty.*
Deakin gave an interview to Melbourne
Herald the other day, and the same issue of that
paper contained this explanation
Mr. Deakin, M.P., telephones to us from Parliament
House this afternoon as follows : “I have just seen for
the first time last week’s Bulletin, and am impressed by
the likeness of observations used in an article it contains
to some remarks I made to the Herald interviewer on
the defence of Australia. While I am gratified at the
coincidence, let me say that, if I had been indebted to
The Bulletin, I should have been pleased to say so.”
A coincidence which can be matched. Some
weeks ago The Bulletin suggested a scheme for
working in naval defence with the mail subsidies.
The same week B. R. Wise independently
proposed almost the same plan in London. The
coincidences show how general is the agreement
among those who give the subject a thought as to
the steps necessary for the defence of this con-
tinent.
The presence of death in the house was
accepted with perfect cheerfulness and composure
by old Tim Cullinan, of Buninyong (Vic.). Tim
and his sister (aged 85) lived in a one-roomed hut
until the other day, Friday, when the old lady
happened to die. Three days later the survivor (a
mere boy of 70) found time to report Bridget’s
death to the police, after which he returned to his
domicile to get his tea. When Constable Kelly
arrived at the house of mourning he found Tim
enjoying his tea with the corpse lying at his ,feet.
The fact that Bridget’s funeral was considerably
overdue had not made itself evident to Timothy.
On perceiving the constable, he shifted some bags
from his sister’s remains, lifted one of her hands,
and said in an admiring voice, “ There you are,
fresh as the day she died ! ” One. naturally sup-
poses that the tender-hearted old fellow must have
been a great comfort to Bridget during her last
illness.
The Commonwealth has just begun to recognise
the dim outlines of another fraud which is per-
petrated upon its industries—a fraud which was
made possible through the anxiety of the Free-
traders to help along every manufacturer, save the
Australian manufacturer. Other countries, as a
rule, levy duties on the value of goods as landed
at their own ports — i. e. , on original cost, with cost
of conveyance, insurance, and all other charges
added. Australia at first took the value at port of
shipment with 10 per cent, added. Then it was
persuaded to take the alleged value at the place of
manufacture—that is to say, to make an allowance
for alleged railway charges to port of shipment. In
most cases it has to take the other fellow’s wordl
for the amount of railway charges, and when it.
takes the American fellow’s word it finds that the-
original cost of the article is about nothing, while-
the railway oharges are something awful. In fact,,
the American article which looks as if it should
pay duty here on £lO often only pays on about
£3 or £5, when the amount which the importer
swears was railway charge is deducted. This one
American dodge is said to swindle Australia out
of £35,000 a year, which isn’t calculated to create
good feeling.
«.
At every distribution of prizes at King’s
School, Parramatta, the fact that Justices Win-
deyer, Innes and G. B. Simpson were educated
there is trotted out. At the recent distribu-
tion another Justice was added, Justice Bring,
and the gentleman who distributed the prizes and
made flattering allusions was Justice A. H.
Simpson. Why do these Justices all talk shop ?
South Aus. Register, which is ordinarily
a rabid anti-Socialist, became a shrieking Socialist
the other day. It looks with a kindly eye on the
butter-export business; but Adelaide is a small
spot, with no particular natural advantages,
wherefore of the Lund, Aberdeen, and White Star
lines only one looks in there, and that only once a
month, whereas the whole three look in on the
butter-stores in the other more favored cities.
Therefore, the cow-squeezer who sends his stuff to
Melbourne starts off three laps or so ahead of the
cow-chaser who buys the Register. Therefore,,
the Register cried for “ equality of opportunity
for S. Australia, and when the co.’s made their new
agreement, giving “equality of opportunity,” it.
rejoiced in quite a frisky fashion. Yet even now
it isn’t clear that the dull old lady sees that it was:
barracking for the very thing that the Socialists:
barrack for, and was, in fact, using the very
phrase which is at the bottom of every Socialistic:
argument.


i „ ■■-. • ;•
v . .'»r,, , . •:.. .
%
/'
.
4&Z
O /W;~\ . *
; w : •"
§1
• ,»*
w
fTs
Bite
• . A
m-i
SP
K
X..’
IS
SR '#.k
/ui it If F
4,1 f
iiilmtii
;
lliil tt»i>P3M
i P lSf, , Jwh ' IHHN ,<-• -.
; :] w mm
MB V.&hut *.....
ti ?•{•*■
k I
r
lilliif *
4 m
; ’
m
«**
-sm-
m
m
t\w-
*#r
? sS£.
isig;
tfc*®?.
Av ■:
■/
sap***-";
' - ■'
Hi
d iPTiI
iill
P
%
v ,l«
ii ;
#
H’Wiir
uti
ill
, am I
f if
■ til
a., a
u
»|»lill!*l8111*.-i •
4,,., I ; W IM>W4
IF
lur
p
a
-< s
LADY NORTHCOTE STAMPS THE 6000th PIANO FRAME.
THEIR EXCELLENCIES ALSO ORDERED A BEALE PATENT PIANO TO BE MADE OF AUSTRALIAN TIMBER FOR THEIR OWN USE.
BEALE AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
Showrooms at Factories Trafalgar Street, Annandale
And at 474 George Street, Sydney, Opp. markets ; 207 King Street, Newtown ; 28
Hunter Street, Newcastle ; George Street, Bathurst ; Auburn Street, Goulburn ;
101 Brisbane Street, Launceston ; 107 Swanston Street, Helbourne ; 127 Rundle
Street, Adelaide ; His majesty’s Theatre, Hay Street, Perth.


9
Mote’s
Geiorlt
W
Q
1
uticur
♦SOUP
And Cuticura Ointment, the
Great Skin Cure.
Not only are they the purest, sweetest, and
most effective for preserving, purifying, anC
beautifying the Skin, Scalp, Hair, and Hands
of infants and children, but they afford instant
relief and refreshing sleep for skin-tortured
babies, and rest for tired mothers, in the
severest cases of torturing, disfiguring, itching,
burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, and pimply
skin and scalp humours, eczemas, rashes, and
irritations, with loss of hair, and are sure to
succeed when all else fails.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout
the world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, fi
Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co.,Sydney ; Los-
ton, U- S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
C3*~Mailed tree,“All About Baby’s Skin, Scalp, and Hair.’*
BALSAMIC
LIXIR
FOR ASTHMA,
CHROMIC BRONCHITIS,
COUCHS, COLDS,
CONSUMPTION.
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE DEALER&
MR. G. T. CONGREVE’S
NEW BOOK ON CONSUMPTION.
Price Qdi., Post Free.
From Coombe Lodge, Peckham, London, S.E., England
HiSr
Gough, Gough,
Night and day, until the Btrength is
entirely exhausted, and that dreadful
word “Consumption” begins to be
whispered amongst friends. That’s a
common story, familiar to the people of
all parts of Australia. There’s another
story, which ought to be as widely known
as the story of the disease—and that is
the story of the cures effected by the use
" DR. SHELDON'S
NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS, COLDS
and CONSUMPTION.
Bronchitis, obstinate, deep-seated
coughs, bleeding of the lungs, and other
forms of disease which affect respiratory
organs, are permanently cured by the
use of
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for COUGHS, COLDS & CONSUMPTION.
Small dose. Pleasant to take.
Every bottle guaranteed.
Price 1/6 and 3/-
ghkgh
kghk
THINGS FOR YOU, SIR!
THEBE is not an article shown hero that does not serve a useful
purpose, and men who want to be good to themselves once in
a way will no doubt find these hints helpful. If you want to buy
where goods possess a distinct individuality, embracing the
Newest Designs—where large choice in all lines makes seiec-
tion easy, and where everything i 3 marked as low as fine goods can
be sold—you will find these most desirable advantages at STEWART
DAWSON’S. We post everything free. Write for our Catalogue, men-
tioning what you are most interested in.
No. E3ol9. —White Porcelain and Solid
Silver Shaving Mug, 11s 6d.
No. G 4855. —Silver-mounted
China Shaving Mug, 5s 6d
No. G 2622. —2 Gent's Silver-
mounted Brushes, with
Comb, in Leather Case, 30s.
Writo for our Iflus ■
trcitcd Price List.
No. F7l96.—Solid Silver Tobacco
Box, for the Pocket,
£1 17s 6d.
No. G7s37.—Gent.’s
9ct. Gold Signet
Ring, £1 ss.
Silver-mounted Doeskin or Kan-
garoo Tobacco Pouch, 4s 6d ;
Initials, Is extra. Antelope
Skin, 6s 6d and 7s 6d.
No. G4725.—Ha11-Marked
9ct. Gold Saw Pierced
Medal, 17s (id.
No. G 3927. —Real
New Zealand
Greenstone and
9ct. Gold Pen-
No. 257.—Silver Sove-
reign Purse, 10s 6d.
Gold, £2 10s.
No. G. 4723.—9 ct. Gold
Medal, 17s 6d.
WtM
&VS3
am
m.
Ka
No. F 8966. —Gent.’s Handsome Solid
Silver Hair Brush, £1 2s 6d
No. G 4705. —Solid Silver Ink
Well, 14s 6d ; smaller, 12s t'd.
No. P7098.—9ct. Gold and Greenstone.,Gent.!s
Pendant, 22s 6d.
No. G7o3B.—Solid Silver-mounted Shaving:
Paper Holder, 17s 6d.
Cheaper styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
No. E9265.—501id
Silver Shaving-
Brush, 13s 6d.
Plain, 12 6d.
G 3
v;v-;
No, G259&—-Very Strong- Solid Silver Pocket Fruit Knife, 8s 6d.
9ct. Gold Tie Clips, 6s 6d.
No. F 7416. —9ct. Gold Tie
Clip, 14s 6d. Larger sizes,
in Silver, 2s 6d and 3s.
Double Silver Chain, Hall Marked on every Link,
8s 6d. Heavier, 10s 6d and 12s 6d.
Ho. FCO9. —Gent.’s Leather Watch Guard, Silver
Mounts, ss. Gold Mounts, 14s 6d.
No. G34ol.—Silver-plated Shaving- Mug with Brush, 21s.
No. G3929—G01d and
Greenstone Links,
13s 6d pair.
No. Gs294.—Silver-
plated Mounts, Fine
Quality Shaving
Strop, 8s 6d.
STEWART DAWSON Si CO.,
George St. & Strand, Sydney.
From Douglas Story’s “The Campaign
with Kuropatkin” :
Japan acclaims to the world her civilisation and her
progress. They are but the lacquer on her barbarism.
Liberty of thought, of opinion, of action, is unknown in
Nippon. A free press were as much a marvel in Japan as
a mastodon in Hyde Park. Comment is crushed,
criticism killed, in Japan. The man who would speak his
mind fairly and freely must place the Yellow Sea between
him and the Mikado ere he writes a word in opposition.
Japan is certainly progressing in civilisa-
tion. Recent head-lines in the Japan Chronicle :
IRREGULARITIES IN ARMY EXPENDITURE.
ALLEGATIONS AGAINST OFFICIALS AND
CONTRACTORS.
THE MINISTER FOR WAR UNDER
EXAMINATION.
LARGE SUMS INVOLVED.
From the Contemporary Review (Lon-
don) :
The sturdy English race of former times is becoming
almost extinct, and is being replaced by a puny, stunted,
sickly, sterile, narrow-chested, wealc-boned, short-sighted
and rotten-toothed race. What Great Britain requires
for the salvation of her agriculture is, in the first place,
the gradual creation of a substantial peasant class, who
work with their own hands on freehold agricultural pro-
perties of moderate size.
It is estimated that the rush of immigrants
to the United States this year will top all previous
records, in spite of the rigid enforcement of a set
of exclusion laws that Bruce Smith and the other
enemies of the white race would call “inhumanly
harsh,” &c. Uncle Sam’s high-wage, high-Protec-
tion policy makes his country so attractive to the
work-people of Europe that those of them who
can raise enough cash and are able to qualify for
citizenship are going there at the rate of thou-
sands a day (on some clays lately over 10,000 went).
The official guess for this year is over 1,000,000
immigrants.
An English-educated Japanese officer is
credited with the following candid observations
about the Anglo-Jap alliance :
It would have suited us better to have effected the
alliance with Russia which Ito failed to negotiate. This
alliance would have been offensive against you. Having
with Russia’s aid destroyed your power in the Far East,
we could have dealt with Russia in our own time. We
do not fear Russia, and we have cause for our confidence.
This latter will soon be brought home to you as the out-
come of this new alliance, in spite of the fact that it lias
been heralded by you as a guarantee for the peace of the
East in the immediate future. Are you so blind as not
to see that our aspirations to blot you out, our main
menace in the Far East, failed through Russia’s rapacity V
Well, her blood be upon her own head ; but we all wish
it had been the other way.
“ Do we learn nothing at all from history 1
Do men still adhere to the belief that the white
man and the yellow or black man can dwell
together on the same soil in peace and amity ?
Are there those who lack the imagination to see
how the whole face of the world is changed since
the yellow man shattered into irrecoverable frag-
ments the prestige of the white man in Asia, and
made his name a byword and a hissing among all
her teeming millions? Are there those who fail
utterly to apprehend that instead of Japanese
immigration being a trifling parochial issue, to be
decided by debate about comparative ‘morals,’
‘cleanliness’, ‘efficiency,’ ‘reliability,’ and other
microscopic considerations, it is in fact a phase of
one of the world’s great problems—the problem of
earth-domination, of the preservation of our
civilization, of our racial integrity ? ” — Argonaut
U.S.A.
Stuart Russell, in his “ Genesis of Queens-
land,” quotes a very old Sydney Gazette leading
article, in which the district about Brisbane had
its fortune told : “To make Moreton Bay one of
the most valuable adjuncts of the colony (N.S. W.),
nothing is wanting but a large and regular supply
of Indian and Chinese laborers—men who thor-
oughly understand the culture of tropical plants
and fruit trees, and to whose constitution the
climate is well suited. Should this supply be
afforded us, we should not find men of capital and
experience diffident of availing themselves of the
advantages offered by this district. ” It was Bris-
bane then; it was Bendigo a little later; it is
North Queensland now. The advocates of colored
labor are always finding some place that only wants
a dirty, ignorant, incompetent nigger to make
people rise up and call it blessed.
“ Dareel Remarked in a recent Bulletin
that nothing came out of the Mercadool (N.S.W.)
land inquiry. I had a trip since then to a town-
ship in that district, and was struck by the absence
of old hands of the station type—safe men, who
never squeaked. They’re all gone. They got a
sudden fit of roving, and have moved on to billets,
always in some other State, where the subpoena
troubleth not. All this because an obscure
Progress Committee sought a widening of the
scope of the Lands inquiry. In those pre-
Mercadool days, a Jew, a student of the Govern-
ment Gazette, used to haunt the Supreme Court
whenever a homestead lessee was being sold up by
the sheriff. He was a believing. Jew, for, how-
ever keen he was on securing. A lease, he could
be persuaded by someone who knew the land that
it was not a good investment. Apparently, he
always took that advice—for what it was worth—
as to-day his hat is glossier than in the days when
he hustled to go on the land.
The Bent-Gaunson alliance is one of the
most shameless of the many jobs which will
make the Irvine-Bent Government regarded
by future Victorians as Tammany is by decent
New Yorkers. When Bent decided on separate
representation for public servants, Gaunson came
forth as a Labor candidate, signed the pledge, and
went in flying. He sat on the Opposition side of
the House, but, from the first day, he was hand-in-
glove with the unspeakable Bent, whom he was
elected to fight, and has voted with him on
almost every division. He is in Bent’s office
almost as frequently as Bent himself, and some-
times sits beside the Premier when deputa-
tions call, like a veritable member of the
Ministry. That he may yet be one in fact,
is indicated by a remark he made at a recent
smoke night to the effect that the public servant’s
member must be a supporter of the Government
if he is to do good for his constituents. Of course,
a number of those who voted for Gaunson are
raging over his somersault; but he has been
clever enough to show to some small extent that
he can work more points for his constituents by
treachery to the Labor party than by hostility to
Bent. Briefly put, Gaunson says that they can apply
the very political influence, which separate repre-
sentation was introduced to prevent, more strongly
under separate representation. But as there
is still a big section which will have nothing to do
with Gaunson, Bent has announced that it will be
necessary to legislate so that the casual public
servants, as well as the permanent ones, shall-be
brought into the separate net. This will mean
two members instead of one for the public service,
and make Gaunsoh’s seat safer: Gaunson 1 is be-
coming so necessary to Bent that the safety of his
seat is a matter of importance,


Best Galvanized Wire Netting
DIAMOND SHAPE MESH.
Easily handled and fitted up.
Cannot be drawn out of shape.
Less Posts required, and Is cheaper than all others.
Write or call for Price List and Samples to
B. BOHM,
Wire Works, 492 Harris Street, Ultimo.
Amusements.
SCOTTIBH ENTERTAINER,
Miss Jean Howison, of Perth, Scotland,
Interpreter of
ROBE J? T BURNS ant « lAN MACLAREN.
Address : The Bulletin.
A.u.atralian. Football.
SOUTH MELBOURNE
FITZROY
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND, JUNE 24th,
AT 3 P.M.
METROP. v. NORTHERN DIBTRICTB at 1.15p.m.
H. OHKSNEY HARTE, Hon. Secretary.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Jessie fflaclachlan.
JUNE 27, 29 and 30.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
Prices, ss, 3s, 2s anii is.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN,
Manager,
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee & Manager. Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), and EVERY EVENING,
the Distinguished Irish Comedian,
MR. ANDREW MACK,
Supported by HIS OWN COMPLETE COMPANY, in
a Play Written Expressly for him, entitled,
TOM MOORE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. jy PRICES AS USUAL.
THEATRE ROYAL, S Y D N E Y.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON.
THE LAST 2 NIGHTS of the SEASON, and FAREWELL
PERFORMANCES of MISS MAUD JEFFRIES.
THURSDAY, JUNE 22, and FRIDAY, JUNE 23.
THE LADY OF LYONS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 24, Return to Sydney, for a
Season of Three Weeks Only, of Mr. J. C. Williamson’s
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN’S REPERTOIRE COMPANY.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s and Is.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager .. William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION, headed by
MISS EUGENIE DUCCAN, in
E A. S 3 T LY3STKT E.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is. Plan at Elvys.
RITERION theatre, s ydne y.
Lessee JOHN F. SHERIDAN.
SECOND WEEK.
THE OPERATIC EXTRAVAGANZA,
KING 33 013 0.
HAVE YOU SEEN ITf
KINO DODO HAS CAUGHT THE PUBLIC TASTE.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
Box Plan, Day Sale, and PRICES AS USUAL.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDN EY.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
FRANK M. CLARK’S NEW FOLLY CO.
Terrific Success of England’s Great Serio,
LIZZIE KIRK,
VICTOR, LOTTIE LORNE, HARRY SHINE,
THE STAGPOOLES,
And THE GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
POPULAR PRICES—2s, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Emphatic Success of Mr. GEORGE FULLER COLDEN.
Great Success of Master BOBBIE WYLDMAN and Miss
CLARICE DUDLEICH. Also, Mr. FRED. BLUETT.
Continued Success of Miss MAUD BEATTY, the Charming
Young Operatic Artiste. Mr. J. W. WINTON, accom-
panied by the Irrepressible M'CINTY.
Immediate Success of MDLLE. ALICE GUERRA, French
and Spanish Soubrette and Dancer. Mr. NAT TRAVERB,
Mr. IRVING SAYLES, KEARNS and ROSLYN.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Change of Programme by
FRED. MILLIS, World’s Greatest Ventriloquist.
TOM DAWSON, Comedian.
ALICE PIERCE, American Impressionist.
STAVE, Indian Electrical Comedy Artist.
FIGAROS, Character Vocalists and Specialty Dancers.
HARRY TAFT, Whistling Comedian.
LEO DRYDEN, Actor Vocalist, Descriptive Comedian.
FANNY POWERS, FORD & BENTLEY.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Combination of Commonwealth Dramatic Favorites in
the Great Bohemian Novelty,
SPORTING LIFE.
m- PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Allan’s.
C. SIMONSENS, Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BILL ADAMS.
SAT. NEXT, JUNE 24, MR. GEORGE STEPHENSON'S
ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in
THE ROSE OF RIVIERA.
Interpreted by EDWARD LAURI, MAY BEATTY, MISS
WATTS-PHILLIPS, CHAS. M'NAUGHTON.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MAGDA.
SATURDAY JUNE 24, the Eminent Tragedienne,
Miss 2KT anoe O’dXToil,
in Sudermann’g Latest Play,
THE FIRES OF ST. JOHN.
PRICES AS USUAL. Plan at Allan’s. MATINEES,.
WEDNESDAYS.
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, is still being pushed for
all it is worth, profits for last three months reading £l3OO,
£l9OO, and £2,000. For a long time ore treated averaged
7dwt., but, last two months, it has been nearer Bdwt.
Reserves were only valued at 7dwt. ; so, apparently, ore
over average is now being treated. Lionel Robinson, of
London, is said to hold the bulk of shares, and the im-
provement in returns dates from his recent visit to
Kalgoorlie. On developments and prospects of mine,
market value seems to be fairly high, though it must be
admitted Manager Moss has been very successful both
with Hainault and Kalgurli.
* * * •
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, is driving south
at 340 ft. level of main shaft to test rich ore alleged
to have been met at 200 ft. in No. 2 shaft. Mine hitherto
has proved so patchy and disappointing that few have
any confidence in it. Again and again shareholders have
been told that pay-ore was in sight, but battery tests have
upset predictions. Mine appears to be a wild-cat, and
will probably never he anything else. 00. is £36,502 in
debt, but this is squared-up by writing a similar amount
to development, &c., as an asset. And a barren hole in
the ground is a cold asset.
* * # *
Mikado, Burtville (W. A.), a Perth flotation in
3000 shares of £5 each, of which 2000 are issued, has
joined div.-list. Two divs., Is. each, for May and June
have been declared ; but distribution amounts to only
£lOO a time. Co. owns no mill, but gets stone treated at
State battery.
» * * *
Devon Consols South Extended and Rising
Sun, on north end of Kalgoorlie belt, are under offer to
westralia Waihi crowd, Adelaide. Area is 19 acres, and
proposed co. is to be in 200,000 shares. Of these, vendors
are to get 120,000, while promoters collar 30,000, leaving
50,000 shares to provide working capital. Lode runs up
to 20ft. wide, and crushings have varied between loz. and
2oz. per ton. Proposition looks highly promising if
properly tackled, but only £5OOO working capital is
guaranteed, which is ridiculous for opening and equipping
a gold mine. g
* * * •
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), had a most
successful time last year, and mine is in a better position
than ever before. During year co. treated 108,800 tons
for 62,6260 z. of gold, worth £266,610. Total cost is put
at 225. l-49d. per ton, which pans out £120,360 only;
but, including depreciation, &c., costs amount to £150,480,
or 275. Bd. a ton. Estimated ore reserves are given as
362,900 tons, worth 475. 4d., so that at gross costs of last
year there should be a profit of £1 a ton. As 6£dwt.
now covers all expenses, probably a lot of ore passed by
y early days as too poor to pay, will be extracted, and
added to reserves. Developments are being steadily pushed
ahead, so co. is in a sound position.
* * * *
Mt. Jackson, Southern Cross (W.A.), whose
mill has been closed for nearly a year, chiefly for want of
water, has again started ; and during May treated 1060
tons for 5600 z. fine gold. While mill was stopped a deal
of development was done. Still, mine is small, and is
never likely to improve much on present position.
Number of W.A. mining co.’s working at a
loss appears to be increasing. During May half-a-dozen
were on the black list: —Westralia Mt. Morgans, £9OO ;
Hannan’s Star, £500; Princess Royal, £3OO ; W.F. Main
Reefs, £3OO ; North Kalgurli, £lOO ; and Waihi £lOO.
* * * *
Management of Golden Horseshoe (W.A.)
announced that for past six months no more ore would
be shipped 10 smelters ; yet May return reads—7332oz.
won by smelters and only 58790 z. won by mill. This
means that, out of 20,500 tons treated, some 1800 were
smelted for an average of 40z., and 18,700 milled for an aver-
age of about 6dwt. Unless this can be remedied soon there
must be a collapse, as supply of rich ore can’t last for
ever. May’s costs panned out at 31s. 2d., lowest on record,
and great improvement on Boulder’s 425.
* * * *
Kulamadu (Woodlark) has arrived with a rush.
For the month 798 tons were treated for 9920 z., and 20
tons of concentrates remain unsold. This is the best that
has been turned out. A div. of 6d. was promptly de-
clared, equal to £2500. Half-yearly meeting is at the end
of this month. Strange that the mine should have had
some reputedly good men as managers, yet it was left to
Nymagee Bob Heaslop, a tributor, to squeeze dividends
out of it—9d. in two months. But ore-reserves are still
very slight, and don’t amount to more than four months’
supply. Shares six months ago were unsaleable ; to-day,
buyers 4s.
* * * *
Brilliant Central, Charters Towers, has re
covered its equilibrium. Recent development in western
ground have unproved the prospects. Some blocks on
Marshall s side are worth about 25dwt.—private tests •
the mine doesn’t sample. Remarkable how Towers mines
come and go Three shifts were unable to keep the
battery (public) going ; then a div. was missed, and shares
came wallop. Next thing known was improvements
pretty well all over the mine, and two shift s P could turn
out more stone than three could a few weeks before
Perhaps it s the climate. Return for the month (reallv
353n We tons f S Mo*? are three fortni ? ht, y yields in) was
£350 tOnS f ° r 1821oz ' > concentrates, £1778 ; residues,
* * ♦ *
Golden Alexandria is one of the bright snots
over Ruby ridge way, Charters Towers ; 220 tons for
’ concentrates and residues, £46o—total value,
£1546. This is not done every month, as the mine is
backward in development where the stone lives.
The Charters Towers market did not shift when
:the Imperial put through its trial crushing (sampling- ?) of
10 tons, from a winze at No. 7 level, for a return of £8 7s
■4d. a ton. They are going to try again.
* * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, still has its
WlonMl UP i’ v eC M dev ®l°P me nts in the Brilliant
Extended at No. 11, and in Marshall’s, encourage
at to linger. Reef in. Marshall’s new underlie pinched out
before it reached the Bonnie. Last month’s return from
Marshall s was 2430 z. from 517 tons; concentrates and
ealHvas mad**? eva ue £1245. On top of this a 3d.
*‘* * *
#sww7n HiUs ( N -Q-) made a working profit of
£8562 last half-year, against £6020 the previous half • but
interest and charges mopped up all but £3369 of it. Co’s
30-head null is just about ready—2o head have been at
work lately, on stuff averaging about 3’3 per cent tin
which is an improvement. In fact, ore, reserves and
methods have all looked up ; but whether the shows can
M ??if e ,, C i Plfc . al (£441,750 issued, in £1 shares, be-
sides £63,850 debentures) and give even very moderate
profit is another question. Co.’s earlier days were a
model of extravagant mismanagement; and tin is an un-
certain metal to rely upon for a recover} 7 .
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74. Eustace
±>ennett, Manager.*
* * * *
<■ AM? tha * 1S slowly leaking out is that the
hydro-thermal has shown up in the ground let bv the
Berry Extended, Cresivick (Vic.), to the
Leads. This means that the rim of the ancient lake
which it was thought was within the boundary of the
Leads lease, extends west into the Extended 'northern
ground. A rather serious contingency this, and it may
account for the disappointing returns being got as latter
co. drives north towards where the tributing co. is work-
ing. Ip the Leads they seem still to be in a fog about the
course of the gutter, and now there is talk that the folk
who said that it was away to the east are not such idiots
as they were thought to be. When co. gets out of its
maze and finds settled ground, there may not be much
left to pay divs. from.
* * * *
The passing of old Dick Noble from the Long
Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.), did not surprise those
who knew how the tide had turned against him. Still,
he has left like a man, with not a whimper, and with a
host of friends in Gippsland mining towns. Starting as a
mine-boy, he went from one post to another till he was
put in control of the Extended. Then he paid over
£600,000 in divs. with scarcely a break. It remains to be
seen if anyone will be so good a Sir Oracle and as popular
with the general shareholder.
* * * *
‘‘Chuck! chuck!” says that old hen, the com-
mittea of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, and there
comes a great cheeping from the little unfeathered chick
THE LATE GILBERT PROBYN SMITH.
in the brokers’ ring. The whole of this Umpty-Dumpty
trouble is that someone has hatched a little duckling, in
which the bulk of the shares are held in trust by the legal
manager. This system, the committee says, is fraught
with danger, because (1) a market may be created
in which Juggins may be victimised; and
(2) because a market may be created in which;
those dear little innocents, the members of the Stock
Exchange, may be cornered. But people don’t get cor-
nered when they don’t sell shares that don’t belong to
them or to their clients. If the genial spec, seller gets
caught and bowled out, he deserves punishment and not
coddling. As for No. 1 reason, why shouldn’t two or three
people gather together to work a mine and limit their lia-
bility by forming a co. if they wish to do so? If they
don’t work, and try Stock Exchange dodgery, Stock Ex-
change cuteness will soon find the fraud out and shun it.
And it is so easy to jump over the stone wall the com-
mittee would put up, by having shares put into a dozen or
twenty names. No, this row is a china egg, and it won’t
hatch anything, for brokers want stocks listed as long as
they are counters to carrying on dealing with.
* * * *
Dredging on the Loddon River (Vic.) threatens
badly, if the Loddon co. is barred from hydraulic sluicing.
River is a dirty trickle in summer and a dirty torrent in
winter, because alluvium from ploughed-up fields and
old workings gets washed into it. Pretty well 600 men
are engaged in the dredging industry in Castlemaine, and
only a few farmers will have their imaginations hurt by
the little additional sludge that gets away from the dams
of the dredge-paddocks. Last year in Victoria 59 dredge
and sluieing-plants worked 346 acres for an average return
of 143£0z. per acre, and gave employment to 1409 men.
In all, about 50,0000 z., valued at £200,000, came from pre-
viously worthless ground. Wages and maintenance aggre-
gated £104,000, and divs. amounting to £41,000 were paid.
A big slab of this was earned in the Castlemaine district,
yet a few cookies, who won’t see beyond their sun-tipped
noses, want to shut the dredges down. Mining is not in
such a healthy state in Victoria that it can afford to
hustle out of work a lot of dredges on such a cackle.
* * * *
It has taken a long time for the public to size up
the alleged “ profits ” from the first clean-up of the
South Mt. Cameron tin mine (Tas.). Chairman Tuxen
was made to say that the profit from about 16J tons of
stream tin was £1433. Stream tin is worth three-
quarters the price of the metal, as the proportion
of metal in the ore is roughly 75 per cent. Take
tin at £l3O per ton, and it leaves tlje co.’s ore worth a
shade under £lOO per ton. Deduct smelting charges and
cost of realisation, and another £lO per ton will probably
be consumed, leaving under £9O per ton as the value of
the stream tin. This brings up a total of about £l5OO as
the gross value of the 16£ tons. Yet the Argus blunderer
never saw the “ bloomer,” and gravely puffed the £1433
as profit. Such a thing was impossible. But ought not
the directors to have corrected the mis-statement ? If
the profit on nine weeks’ work runs to £5OO the co. will
be lucky.
* • * •
South Australia’s famous old Burra copper mine
has a kick left. A new ore shoot found lately adds some-
thing to the 10,000 tons of ore available, and the directors
are now hunting up a cheap old mill to dress the stuff.
* * * *
South Australia is still looking for a gold mine.
Its most consistent show for some time past, the Tarcoola
Blocks, made a loss of £BOB past half-year ; and prospects
are rather dismal.
Says Queensland Under-Sec. for Mines M‘Don-
ald in his annual report“ Experience hitherto has led
us to expect that the gradual exhaustion of our produc-
tive mines will be compensated by new discoveries ; but
the year can be credited with no development of first-
rate importance. It is in the extension of facilities for
transport, and in the more general attention to economi-
cal treatment, that the hope of expansion lies... Within
the last ten years the cost of recovering gold(atMt. Morgan)
has been brought down from £3 to a little over £1 per ton.”
Exactly. And Mt. Morgan, which is one of the hottest
shops in Queensland, hasn’t had the Kanaka or other
cheap nigger. In fact, these remarkable economies have
evolved because they haven’t had the Kanaka. Cheap
labor is the deadly enemy of progress.
* * * *
Tally of Vic. gold-mining dividends for 1904,
made early in the year at £650,434, has been cut down by
Vic. Mines Department to £623,397 ; Westralian divs. were
£2,055,959; Queensland, £831,966; N.S. W., £41,350. Of Vic.
co.’s, S. New Moon paid £120,000 (or 430 p.c. on its paid
capital), and New Moon £48,000 (or 1140 p.c.). These two
eo.’s have paid respectively in all £322,400 and £242,728.
One can get an idea of the size of Westralian mines’and
the speed with which the gold is being ripped out of
them by noting that last year alone Fingall paid
£337,500, Oroya-Brown Hill £281,000, Horseshoe £270,000,
Perseverance £227,500, and Ivanhoe £225,000—a1l more,
by the way, than Charters Towers’ brilliant rocket of last
year, Queen Cross Reef, which gave £220,000.
* * * *
Somebody writes to The Bulletin to suggest
that even the Australian life assurance office isn’t the
thing it is cracked up to be—which is carrying the
Stinking Fish business pretty far, and almost serves some
Australian insurance people right for hitherto patting the
cry on the back. The Scottish Widows, in England, it is
pointed out, works on £9 16s. lid. per cent, of premiums
whereas the A.M.P.’s expense-rate of £l3 6s. 9d. is the
best in Australia. But in comparing expenses the pro-
portion of new business has to be taken into account;
for it obviously costs far more to whip up new premiums
than to sit in an office and collect renewal premiums.
And _ whereas last year the Scottish Widows’ new
premium income was only £62,136 out of a total of
£1,097,837 (equal to 5'6 per cent.), the A.M.P.’s
was £138,426 out of a total of £1,747,599 (or 7’9 per cent).
That is to say, for its £l3 6s. 9d. the A.M.P. got nearly
50 per cent, more new business than the Scottish Widows
got for its £9 16s. lid. And the Scottish Widows is an
exceptional case, anyhow ; for the average British rate is
£l3 2s. Even that, certainly, is lower than the Austra-
lian office’s £l3 6s. 9d. But the interest earnings have
also to be taken into account. The Scottish Widows earns
only £3 17s. 4d. p.c., while the average Australian return
is about £4 Bs. Od. ; and the higher interest earnings are
a natural set-off against a lower expense rate ; for in the
country where interest and rents are high, salaries,
wages, and other expenses of running a concern will
pretty certainly be high too.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Said that Mrs. Brough suffers from failing eyesight, and
that during the latter part of the last Australian tour the
trouble became so bad that she could hardly see across the
stage.
, R - s - Smythe has departed in the Geelong for London
via South Africa. He toured South Africa long before
gold and diamonds were thought of, and was the first
manager to cross the Orange River. By the same ship
went another theatrical manager, Mr. H. H. Vincent and
his wife. ’
An actor in a recent imported co. bears the comprehen-
sive nickname of “ God’s Understudy.”
Oyri! Keightley is doing steady work with the Benson
Shakspeare co. in England, in such parts as Laertes and
the Banished Duke. During the bard’s birthday week
eight plays were given at Stratford-on-Avon.
Someone described as “Nellie Stewart, fascinating
serio-comic and danseuse,” is appearing at Melbourne
Temperance Hall.
Maxine Elliott made her re-appearance at London
Lyric lately in “ Her Own Way.” Turns out to be Clyde
bitch’s piece, "Blind Man’s Buff,” played in Australia
this year by Nellie Stewart. The critics have few good
words to say for it.
Violinist Kubelik has acquired by his fiddling more
money than he can readily spend. He is now getting
together a string of racehorses to help him to go through
it, and a horse can get through an awful lot of money
when he starts, especially if he starts slowly. Also he
can get through a great deal of money when he doesn’t
start.
Bill Anderson’s proverbial good luck didn’t attend a
recent yellerdrama season at Broken Hill. The funny girl
took ill, and a serious girl had to take her place. Some
minor villains were also laid aside, and when finally the
villain-in-chief was ordered to bed by the doctor things
looked brighter than usual for the hero. However the
chief villain (Herbert Linden) pluckily kept on his legs
and did the persecuting one night with his temperature
nearly up to 104 degrees, because the management didn’t
have a monster sufficiently nefarious to take his place.
But Linden was a very limp villain by the time he was
seized by the strong arm of the Law in the last act, and if
his arrest had been delayed another half-hour he would
probably have collapsed.
Maggie Stirling, the tall mezzo-soprano, who might have
passed for a twin-sister of Lady Hopetoun of yore, is
coming back to Melbourne for good. A few years ago Miss
Stirling went to Europe for voice-culture, and put in some
work with Marchesi. Her singing is said to have
improved, but if it is only as good as when she made her
farewell appearance at Melbourne Town Hall it will be
much better than the best of the younger local vocal
talent.
Somebody protects in a loud voice that Miss Una
Bourne—the most accomplished piariiste in Australia,
without question—“ought to be sent to England to mature
and try her fortunes in the art centres of the old world.”
Apostles of foreign “ culchaw ” are unconsciously playing
the Foreign-traders’ game. This country suffers from
too much prejudice against local musical manufactures.
The ancient saying that two is company hasn’t acted in
the case of the two Adelaide skating rinks, and they are
at open war. The ice rink allows sweaters to be worn ;
the roller rink doesn’t, and advertises that no hoodlums
nor hoodlumesses will be admitted. Also it holds special
“society nights,” on which occasions every gentleman
must wear perfect creases in his trousers. All creases are
examined at the doors, and those failing to pass inspec-
tion are passed out into the night.
“Mullewa”: The “positively no encore” rule was the
cause of a peculiar incident at the Austral Society’s final
demonstration at Bendigo (Vic.) lately. A clever kiddy
from Echuca took the house by storm with a coon song,
and was demanded back vociferously. The committee sat
hard and held tight, and for three-quarters of an hour the
audience took charge and yelled. The rule held good,
nevertheless, and the programme eventually drifted on to
a tardy ending. The encore business, fostered by the
habit of getting something for nothing, is so overdone,
that managers have a choice ,of two things—to bill half
the items they intend to give, and let the rest go as
recalls, or to absolutely refuse encores. If the latter,
why grumble ? When a workman tips five loads of gravel
in my yard, I don’t expect a sixth free because I give him
three cheers for the able manner in which he tipped the
first five.
The model of Mackenhal’s “ Dancer,” representing a
nude girl playing the castanets, is a well-known Austra-
lian ballet nymph, who,' like many other Australians,
went to London to make her fortune, and found that
theatrical success there lay through the pocket of some
influential Fatman rather than through meritorious high
kicking. The girl, who is more talented than many
receiving immense salaries, in London ballets, was unable
to obtain a job even among the rank ahd file, without a
recommendation from some well-gilt patron who had the
ear of a management, and was in a bad way financially
when she heard of Mackennal’s projected statue. Then
she struck at least a moderate quantity of “ ile.” The
professional models were poseuses pure and simple, know-
ing nothing of dancing, and were incapable of entering
into the spirit of the composition. Haying the necessary
knowledge, together with the necessary shapeliness, the
Australian girl was able to do something for the honor
of her country by helping Maekennal to turn out what
seems to be regarded as his best work up to now.
Haddon Chambers’ brother, Harry, who is said to have
scored gorgeous press-notices rather than big business
with his comedy, “ Abigail ” (lately staged in New York),'
is following it up with a play called “ Frenzied Finance.’’
“Holdar M.”: In London lately one Oswald Stoll, a
“ variety ” magnate, selected from several thousand
applications some 60 stage-aspirants, and let them loose
at a special matinee at Holloway Empire Music-hall,
before a la ge audience, including many managers and
agents. Some “turns” went well, .but many gave dis-
pleasure to all—except the turners ; and out of the several
thousand original applicants about ten might be finally
set down as having a hope of success. The same day a
long-out-of-work actress, aged 25, committed suicide. It
was the only chance she saw of a permanent engagement.
Theatrical business in Britain is said to be at a
remarkably low ebb, and the managers to a man have
lost their old respect for Freetrade. A while ago they
looked for all sorts of reasons why the public stayed away
from the theatres. The lack of good plays, the surfeit
of musical shows, the general tiredness of the people,
etc., etc., were theories to account for the falling off.
But now the trouble is attributed to the country’s
growing impecuniosity. Play-going is a luxury, and the
multitude are knocking it off. They are even knocking
off beer.
“ Mac.” : The city youngster has a natural antagonism
to the police. At a carnival at Melbourne Exhibition the
other night a bushranging scene was performed. As the
troopers, unseen by the ’rangers, rode stealthily into the
arena, there was a wild yell of “ Yow ! ” from all the kids
in the sixpenny enclosure. They “yowed” from pure
instinct.
How remarkable is the vitality of Boucicault ! Four of
his pieces have been acted in Melbourne within the last
few weeks: “Arrah-na-P6gue,” the “Octoroon,” the
“ Shaughraun,” and “ After Dark.” The “ Octoroon ”
was first acted in Melbourne by Madame Duret and J. H.
Leroy. The next production was thus cast: Scudder,
Jefferson ; Pete, Stewart; Wahnotee, Clarance Holt;
M'Oloskev, Fitzgerald ; Peyton, Heir ; Sunnysides, Lam-
bert ; Ratts, Dunn ; Poindexter, Ireland; Paul, Julia
Edouin ; Zoe, Mrs. Heir ; Dora, Rosa Dunn ; Mrs. Peyton,
Mrs. Phillips ; Grace, Dolly Green. E. A. Jager, one of
our most esteemed musical professors, was the original
Melbourne “ Weeney Paul.”
Charles Brookfield, London comedian, tells of the com-
pliment that gave him most pleasure in his stage career.
He once gave a pass to a burglar who wanted to take his
wife to the theatre. Brookfield was appearing in his own
play, “ The Burglar and the Judge.” The scene in which
Brookfield broke open a safe delighted the expert in the
dress circle. After the final curtain the house-breaker
came to congratulate him, and paid him the
highest compliment he had ever received —“My word,
Mr. 8., you must have been a tea-leaf in your time.”
“ Tea-leaf ” being rhyming slang for “ thief.”
Thomas Bent shows by his awful revellings
in comic circus business that he has not yet struck
the Right Brand. When he quits his goatish
antics, the world will know he is obtaining that
inspiration to dignified conduct and wise deeds
which D.C.L. Whisky bestows on its thousands of
reasonable votaries. Thomas should lay this
advice to heart, and promptly dedicate a nip of
D.C.L. to his Little Mary.


m
n
m
cZ
*» 2)l
IS IT POSSIBLE FOR MEN AND HORSES TO COMPETE WITH STEAM POWER ?
Isn’t it obvious that any farmer who makes the largest possible use of steam power will do a given amount of work
at lower cost than his neighbour using men and horses for the same work?
Do YOU want to reduce the cost of your farming operat aons and merease Y°£P P™ its.
Oh all we send vou our Buffalo Engine and Thresher Catalogue SHOWING YOU HOW 1U uu ii 1
We sold 22 of them last month— there must be some reason for it—perhaps it s a good enou h one to interest you.
Our easy terms will be a surprise to you-they are so easy that, bar a small first payment, the engmePAYS FOR ITSELF.
ifggr-Send for catalogue NOW, so as to get engine In time for coming season.
OUR ENGINE GANG
DISC PLOUGHS
are savers of money
and labour.
International Harvester Company of America
BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, & LAUNCESTON.
WILL EXHIBIT AT
SYDNEY
SHEEP SHOW.
I
m
*
m
1
i
■
m
TiTtrflT TS A. SPECIALIST ? mi
f fhe word Specialist to mean ‘‘One who devoted himself to a Speciality. The word
Webster defines the <( That which is the special or particular calling of any person or business ;
Speciality he defines a , 0 which he makes the object of special attention,
that for which a person is distingu sh d particular pursuits may become Specialists in their par-
no Specialists, bit as the world advanced in knowledge the
ticular line. In the early cenra discovered that the “ Jack-of-all-trades was certainly master of none.
KSfSJST*”“ ™ FREDAS & WALLACE MEOCAL INSTITUTE
is the Home of many Celebrated International Specialists in Disease, who are quoted as highest authorities in
HALE PELVIC DISEASiES. admires most the man who does best what multitudes do well, and the
COMBINE , EXPERTS. T,.„ do n.O
profess to cure all.diseasesJ, BUT Builder, Baker, Shoemaker, Grocer, or Butcher, and also
. It is seldom that you find one m u applying themselves to either of these trades, become perfect.
his own Physician, but you Stewart Pasteur, Morse, Fulton, and Ricord are all Specialists in various Professions,
Edison, Marconi, Landseer, Stewart., rasteui, , ■
and so undoubtedly are the FREEMAN and WALLACE SPECIALISIS.
Here are one or two testimonies sent in to Dr.
Wallace. Physician-in-Chief to the Medical Staff, which
comprises FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS,
and which should be read with interest.
MR. B. H. PE4RD, of Mulwala, Vic., writes
“ I am highly pleased at kind treatment and skill re-
ceived-at the Institute, for you have treated me in a
very clever and straightforward manner.”
Mr. DAVID O’KEEFE, Beaconsfield, Tas., writes
“ I have worked very hard indeed lately, and am able
to do my portion just as well as the best of my mates,
thanks to your skill.”
Mrs. POWER, of Neardie, Queensland, writes
“ I am happy to say my health has been for some
time past, and now is, very good since you treated me.”
[This was one of the most severe and deep-seated
cases ever we were called upon to treat. ]
DO NOT BE ASLEEP
TO YOUR SELF-INTEREST.
MANY men are asleep and dead to their Lolf-interest, and especially so are they
in cases where their health is at stake. Many neglect the latter, and fail to
consult the Physician or Specialist until too late to avoid
ruptcy or an expensive course of treatment or operation. ‘TO Bit rUKJIr
WARNED IS TO BE FORE-ARMED.” That is an old proverb, true in every word
for the man who carelessly looks upon a symptom of disease and discards it.
Now let us talk to you. The Specialists of
the fr€cman & Wallace
MEDICAL INSTITUTE
are Experts in diseases of Genito-Urinary Systems. We treat them specially by the
most scientific methods. We do not patch up, charge heavily, or on ally hum -
bug. If a man has VARICOCELE, RUPTURE, BLADDER IMPAIRMENTS,
CYSTITIS KIDNEY TROUBLE, DIABETES, INFLAMMATION OF THE
PROSTATIC GLAND, DYSPEPSIA, CONSTIPATION or INDIGESTION, we
cure in 90 per cent, such cases, provided the patient takes our remedies correctly
and obeys our instructions perfectly.
Here is a letter extract from a man we took in hand when he considered himself
on the brink of the grave :
" Messrs. FREEMAN & WALLACE,—
Some months ago ! mas a wreck. My friends considered
my case hopeless. I had little hope when I wrote you and
detailed my case and its cause. No one would have thought I
had any great chance of living another 12 months. Your treat-
ment has reversed my hopes, and has wrought wonderful
changes. I am now fairly strong and well, and have given
proof of that strength in many ways. / recommend the treat-
ment and your methods because i believe you to be Specialists
In your particular lines of disease.”
We Cure Men to Stay Cured.
The Diseases which the Specialists of THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
INSTITUTE particularly treat are those which affect the Genito-Urinary systems.
These are their Specialities, and they at all times delight in treating cases incom-
petently treated by general practitioners. When they cure a man he is cured to stay
cured. Blood Poison, Varicocele, Rupture, Cystitis, Prostatic Affections, and other
dangerous diseases come within the scope of the Specialists Staff, which includes
FOUR LEGALLY QUALIFIED MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS. Consultation
is free, because in the public interest no charge is made for friendly talks which may
lead to ultimate, permanent cure.
Special invitation is given to those who have tried all sources for relief, and failed.
DR. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., who is registered by Australian, English, and
American Medical Boards, is Physician-in-Chief. Medical books of 600 pages, treating
particularly upon the diseases from which men suffer, will be sent FREE to any
applicant on receipt of letter or post-card, or given without any charge whatever to
those who call.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts. Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Director of Institute ; AND AT MELBOURNE.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D.. Physician-in-Chief; Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Dept, of Women.
Cockle’s Rntibilious Pills.—
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY- Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
The Illustrated. Medical News
says“ Infants do remark*
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
' own.”
m
*
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and tha ABED. ~
BENGER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE,
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.’*
In Mr. Joseph Cook the anti-Socialists
have a champion of whom they should e •
Mr. Cook was lifted from obscurity by the Labor
party, and was elected to Parliament as a mem-
ber of that party on a straight-out Socm ist plat-
form. When office called, he deserted the party,
but still professed to be a sympathiser. JN ow ne
is a leading light of the anti-Labor campaign.
Can anyone define the difference between
a man imported to manage a shop or factory and
a minister imported to manage a, church, do
concerns are run on the purely business lines or
nothing for nothing and not much for threepence.
Both men are paid salaries, though one calls it a
stipend. One makes a living and one has a
“Hving.” If we bar out the first man because ot
cuntract, it is time we finished with sentiment,
and took a leaf out of the U.S.A. book and
returned the imported sky pilot as the Americans
did recently—either with or without thanks.
“ J.Y.” : I recently had an. interesting
conversation with the secretary of the local branch
of the Maoriland Farmers’ Union, _T he chief
reason for said union’s existence is its alleged
endeavor to secure for the State tenants the
“right to purchase” their sections. This gentle-
man mentioned casually that he owned a fine
bush-farm, which, many years ago, he had let on
an immensely long lease, with the right to purchase
at a fixed sum. Ever since that time land values
have been going up. The original tenant sold out
his goodwill and his right of purchase for a tidy
sum, and two later tenants have also sold out to
considerable advantage. “So,” said the secretary,
“three men have already made a little fortune out
of me, all by reason of the most ridiculous clause
that ever went into a lease.” And thus their own
officer knocked endways the chief plank in the
union’s platform.


HEALTH
VITALITY
KUTNOW’S POWDER
APPETITE
STRENGTH
whi™S '“““‘i 77*7 ‘“I”™ 6 " 1 ™ 1 ° f •««* “4 «>6 prevention of disease ;in fact, it is the one remedy
physicians as PROP. LAWSON TAIT, M.D.fTIR tlsill ANDR B w“k
mercurial P ° wder is »PP r^i ated by doctors because they know that it contains nothing which is injurious, no
invalids fij ti P drastlC ’ and n ° thmg but what 18 beneticiaL The most delicate person can take it, even very youn, children and
nSSs dZsTndn, 7° "f*? •**, *“» »—* * « *>« its ioT ZLZII
of the system and establishes fleahhv n " to both ** ™<» -*U. It gradually changes certain morbid conditions
activityl„d’enablerthe Kdnev tL K "r “‘k *T* aboU ‘ * "”** » stimulates the vital processes to renewed
In this way Kutnow’s Powder after f” *j remo J e ™ t « matter which ought to be eliminated, one of the most important of which is URIO ACID.
organs oTthe WV R cTeanse ! ’*™ 7" “« Mthy function of, all the digestive and other
and dtoettc proSities ItTan dd 7?" machinery Kutnow’s Powder is an alterative which possesses tonic, laxative, stimulant,
activity of theZdT It if a chol P Tf ?"f f bbe whole alimentary canal. It is a stimulant which has the power of increasing the vita
and bfwels It tan an&enS wh h 1 T f on ‘ “ *‘ W «* Ita “ 1W "» neutralises excessive acidity in the stomach
to assist i:-th^^^s:^“h. ThesBBre the qu, “" s ° f kuws p ° wdOT ' * «* **—“
H. A. G. ROEDER, Esq.,
writes :
‘*ll3 Grower-street, London, W.C.
“I consider it only fair to apprise you of the
remarkable beneficial results obtained by the use
of Kutnow’s Powder. I purchased a bottle, and
continued with a dose for several mornings before
breakfast. For a long time past I suffered from
severe mental depression, due to an inactive liver
and kidney trouble, with excessive uric acid.
1 hanks to your efficient remedy I no longer fear
these distressing attacks, as I find a single dose
corrects any mistakes in diet and removes the
injurious poisons. In the hope that my letter
may lead others to try what has proved an in-
valuable boon to me, you may make whatever
use you please of my testimony.”
ln>portai}t CaOtioi?
4
All respectable Chemists sell Kutnow’s Powder, but there
are others, who, for the sake of a little extra profit, will
attempt to foist upon you some cheap imitation of their
own. It is well known that these cheap concoctions are
highly dangerous, and in the case of delicate, sensitive
persons capable of inflicting permanent injury. Kutnow’s
Powder is pure, painless, palatable, free from sugar, and
absolutely harmless. See that the fac-siinile signature,
S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the carton in
which the bottle is packed, and also on the label on the
bottle. This signature and trade mark will alone insure
your obtaining the
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder
THE DOCTOR’S ADVICE.
“ 2 Percy-road, Wrexham, July 6, 1904.
“Sirs, —Some five years ago I had an acute
attack of nephritis (inflammation of the kidney),
and my doctor advised Harrogate waters. After
trying them for some time with very little result
the doctor suggested giving your Powder a trial,
with such excellent result that in a short time I
felt vory much better. I continued taking it
regularly every other day for two years, and con-
sider it; worked an entire cure. I never go to a
patient, without a bottle in my possession. Many
of my patients have tried it with excellent results.
I thinlt the wonderful good done in such cases
should be widely known for the benefit of other
sufferers.
“ Yours sincerely,
“MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).”
PERFECTS DIGESTION, REGULATES EXCRETION
Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., ltd., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
Proprietors In U.B.A. : KUTNOW BROB., Ltd., 853 Broadway, New York. [1 7].
KRUSE’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA
For Indigestion
Biliousness and
Acidity.
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to the Vaccination and
Teething of Infants.
SOLD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA,
THE
CBOSVENOB HOTEL
~ SYDNEY . ...
This most comfortable Family and Com-
mercial Hotel has recently undergone a
thorough renovation, and is now quite
up-to-date, under the personal supervision
of .. .
MRS. WM. QANNON,
Proprietress.
m
M
If Any Man, Young or Old,
Keels Physically Weak or Run Down; if he lacks Energy
or Ambition ; if his Nervous System is out of order and
requires strengthening ; or if he has Constipation, Indi-
. gestion, Dyspepsia or Acidity—the result of a bad work-
ing liver ; should he suffer from the pains of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, or Stiff and Swollen Joints ; or he
as Aches and Pains of the Body or Limbs, then
Electricity is the remedy for him. All Weakness, all
loss of vitality and lassitude is due to a wasting away
of the Electric Nerve Force that Nature gave to the body.
Electricity is the life and energy of every human bein<?-,
and without it in the system no one can have Strength
and Vitality.
OBTAIN Our Illustrated Free Book, which
will explain to you, more fully, the great advan-
tages to be derived by the use of Electricity in
all chrontc ailments. It gives the disorders
that are cured, daily, by its use, and
contains engravings, showing how
the Belt and Attachments are ap-
plied. We will send it, Post
Paid, to any address on appli-
cation. \* v
CALL, if you can,
and obtain our Advice
(Free), and have the
working of the
Belt explained.
Hours:. .
9 a.m. to
9 p.m.
cV
A
A
Acts like
magic on
every weak-
ened or debilita-
ted system. It will
remove any pains or
aches from the body after
a few days’ use, and will
quickly restore lost vitality
and strength. Thousands have
been cured, and are being cured
daily, of which abundance of proof
will be sent you.
Mr. Charles Shepherd, of Jamieson
Town, N.S.W., writes: —“Dear Sirs, —There is
nothing gives me greater pleasure than showing or speak-
ln g °/ T th T e benefit I have received from wearing one of
the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belts. For seventeen years I was
a cripple almost a burden to my people, and a perfect misery to
myself I tried a good many doctors but got no benefit from their
treatment. My boys subscribed £5 for me and got me to Svdnev
where I soon got the Belt. I wore it pretty regular for from five to
seven hours each day for about three months. My neighbours like
myself, were more than surprised at the great good I was receiving
from the use of the Belt. For nearly seventeen years I could not ”
stoop to lace my boots, neither could I put my socks on. I then
weighed only seven stone, to-day I weigh about ten stone. I have
nt>t once had occasion, during the last twelve months, to ask any
person to lace my boots or put my socks on. lam 54 years of age
and am a better man to-day than I was when only 40 years of age. *
I am always ready for my meals, and would think nothing of a walk
of thirty miles any day. I thank God my footsteps were directed to /
the Dr. McLaughlin Electric Institute, for lam really a new man.” '
THE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO.,
100 W. Market St., Sydney
N.Z. Office: 54Willis8t.,Wellington
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD.
I
It is worth noting that there has been only
one pronouncedly atheistic paper in Australia—
Mr. Jos. Byrnes’ Liberator, and it was fanatically
opposed to the Labor party and devoutly sup-
ported George Reid and Freetrade.
Melbourne Argus, the Butter Commission
having followed up its disclosures as to the Private
Lnterpnse butter agent with some practical sug-
gestions for reform by socialistic means, patheti-
cally appeals to the farmer not to be a Socialist:—
a UC ° rS who are threatened with and opposed to
compulsory co-operation—would stultify
themselves if they gave countenance to what are obviously
Socialistic proposals—the suppression of individual enter.
pnse and forced co-operation. The Labor party would be
well pleased to see Socialism thus promoted in the cam’*
or its supposed opponents. Nor would the farmers gain ft
they thus sought temporary advantage at the cost of the
sacrifice of principle. They are now fully informed as to
wnat tricks and devices they have to circumvent, both
from their own class and from general dealers.
In short, Private Enterprise has been proved a
scoundrel and a rogue; therefore, give Private
Enterprise another show because, knowing its
very bad character, you can deal with it cautiously
and . safely. Presumably, therefore, if an Argus
official embezzled a big slice of its funds, it would
!h ii eri ?P O y kh&t official with enthusiasm, being
fully informed as to what tricks and devices it
had to circumvent.”
At the annual meeting of the Van Diemen’s
Land Co., in London, the chairman “mentioned
that the co.’s rent-roll had increased during the
last seven years by about 120 per cent.’’ In other
words, the foreign octopus has managed to so
squeeze Tasmania that it yields 120 per cent,
more blood-money than it did seven years ago!
For the right to use the land the Tas. farmers pay
the absentee £2 4s. where they paid £1 in 1898.
And the poor creatures who govern Tasmania
haven’t the courage to hit back with anything
harder than a jelly-fish land-tax, and when the
fattest octopus of all dodges even this they remain
the same poor creatures as before.
How much does ifc cost Australia to hump
dirt backwards and forwards over the earth ? Last
year this country imported £287,024 worth of
manure. The same year it sent away 339,219,7991 b.
of wool with the dirt on it, and 111,769 tons of
silver ore, which was about half-dirt, and vast
quantities of other sorts of dirt. This dragging of
dirt all over the globe is a weary business.
Griffith and Allen, Patent Attorneys of
Sydney, have opened a branch of their business in
Melbourne—(Broken Hill Chambers, Queen-st.),
under the management of Mr. H. P. Keogh, of
Melbourne.*


Japanese State Socialistic industries—
tobacco, powder, arms, sugar, paper, iron, gold
and coal mining, and ship-building»
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion? If so, under the skin you have poison that denes all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated ; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; trie disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAIN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumors, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores, &c.
Price, in Great Britain, Is. lid. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73Farringdon-street, London, England. Agents:
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should look for
the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a green
label on each box. (Regd. copyright.)
Oh / Only a Cold I
But why have it when you can throw
it off so easily ? Don't waste time
with various nostrums. Help Nature
to expel the poison from your system
by a trial of the ideal aperient,
LAXATINE
THE
Lozenge Laxative
Pleasantly flavoured. Perfect in action,
You’ll feel the benefit immediately.
No griping effect. Creates new life.
Is. per box—all ehemists (10)
HAIR TONIC.
The Finest Preparation ever Introduced for the
Hair. At once STOPS IT FROM FALLING and
IMMEDIATELY PROMOTES THE GROWTH.
Price 2/6, Posted 2/9« Give it a Trial.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hairdressers,
654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Established ‘25 Years.
HEALTH
BRINGS
BEAUTY
J
m
m w »\*
/,
A WOMAN
full Of
bounding
life, healthy
and happy!
A woman
from whom
the little
troubles o f
life seem to
slip like rain
from a roof!
A woman
beloved by
all! Who
would not be
she? Ladies,
it is within
the power of
all of you!
Throw off
your diseas-
es, maladies,
depressions,
which en-
feeble the frame
and spoil the tem-
per, by taking
Scott’s Emulsion
the best of all compounds of cod
liver oil mixed with glycerine and
the life-giving hypophosphites of
lime and soda. Consider the expe-
rience of Miss D. M. Graham, who
on November 12th, 1904, wrote
us this letter from Sunny Dell,
Grenfell, N.S.W.
“Since birth I have suffered from a
most irritating, hollow cough, and al-
though I tried several so-called remedies,
I did not obtain any relief. I commenced
taking Scott’s Emulsion last July, and am
now quite a different person, and I am
certain that I am completely cured. I
Strongly advise any persons suffering
from any complaint of the chest or lungs
to take a course of Scott’s Emulsion, as I
am confident, from my own experience,
that they will find relief and cure.”
In cases of anaemia, eczema,
wasting, lung, throat and blood
diseases, or weakness of any sort,
all of w r hich prevent a woman from
looking her best, Scott’s Emulsion
is a sure means of restoration.
Write at once for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d. for postage and mention-
ing this paper) to SCOTT & BOWNJJ,
Ltd., 483, Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or
Leasehold City or Suburban
Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or Now Zealand.
AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying up to 20 per
cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any file.
Directors — Thomas Littlejohn, Esq.,Chairman; The Hon. A. W Meeks, M.L.0., Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin Short,
Esq. ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker ; James Burns, Esq.; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq.,
M.L. A. General Manager and Actuary— Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Letters from People Cured of Rheuma=
tism, Qout, Lumbago and Sciatica.
From Miss Emily Woodhouse, 109 William Street, Sydney, N.S.W., 11th April, 1904.
“I had suffered from rheumatism and sciatic* for several years, and had tried many remedies,
also a trip to the Hot Lakes of New Zealand. The latter gave me temporary relief, but after settling
down in Sydney, the old complaint recurred, s® I gave Warner’* Safe Cure a trial for some time, and
can now confidently state that I have not had the slightest sign of the painful trouble from which 1
suffered so long. lam pleased to state this for the benefit of others who may suffer as I did.
From Mr. F. L. Seager, Waratah Street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., 17th February, 1904.
“ About six years ago I had an attack of lumbago, so severe that I could not v\ilk for nine weeks.
I tried many medicines, porous plasters and electric batteries, without material relief. My doctor
could do nothing for me. Hearing so much about Warner’s Safe Cure I decided to try it. After
taking the first bottle I felt greatly relieved, and started to walk again, and after taking eight bottles
I was completely cured. I have not suffered in any way since, and strongly recommend, Warner s Safe
Cure to anyone afflicted with a similar complaint. I consider the medicine invaluable.
From Mr. John Spencer, 371 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt, N.S.W., 6th February, 1904.
“ Some eight years ago I commenced to suffer from rheumatism and indigestion, and up to about
two years a° - o obtained no relief from doctors nor any medicine taken. Having read a pamphlet con-
taining many testimonials of cures by Warner’s Safe Cure, I decided to try that medicine myself, and
after taking live or six bottles, and following the directions given, I was a new man. 1 have not
suffered in any form since.”
From Mr. William Pollock McAuslan, 10 Russell Place, North Williamstown, Vic.
“ Some eight years ago I was laid up with a very persistent attack of rheumatism, and although I
was under the care of a leading medical man, at the end of four or five months, instead of getting
batter I was growing gradually worse, and in the doctor s own words would never make any perma-
nent improvement. 5 Fearing that his words might come true, I refused to take his medicine any
longer and as a last hope gave Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure a trial, brom
the°taking of the first dose I could see hope ahead, and in a very little while all pain had left me, and
I never had the slightest sign of any relapse until my complete recovery some seven weeks later. Ihe
doctor’s words, thanks to Warner’s medicines, have not been verified, as from that day, eight years
ago, to this, I have not had the slightest symptom of that dreadful complaint.”
From Mr. George Wedlock (the Sandhurst Samson), Milburn’s Coffeo Palace, Bendigo, Vic.,
4th September, 1903. . . , _ , ~. .. ,
“ About two years ago I was prostrated with sciatica, and suffered excruciating pain in my legs,
more especially in my knee joints. I have always been a strong, active man, and did not like the
idea of having to lay up, as I was advised by a physician, so I tried *fcrious advertised remedies, but
v. 'th no real benefit. At this time Warner’s Safe Cure was brought under my notice, and 1 began to
tvce it I took two bottles of the Safe Cure and a vial of Warner’s Safe Pills, when all pain mmy
lei s left me, and I was able to get about as actively as ever. lam well known, having exhibited my
groat power and strength to numerous audiences throughout the Australian States.
From Mrs. Nellie Davidson, 32 Keig-street, Newtown, N.S.W., 16th February, 1903.
“ When livin'* in Boggabri, about 18 months ago, I was laid up for nearly the whole winter with
rheumatism, and could not obtain any relief from any of the several medicines I took One day I saw
a pamphlet, issued by you, in which was described a case similar to my own, and 1 decided- to try
whether Warner’s Safe Cure would also benefit me. I took three bottles of the medicine, and am very
gl id to say that I was completely cured, and could go about my work cheerfully. 1 have not felt the
slightest symptom of the return of any rheumatic pain since that time. ’
From Mrs. S. A. Slater, 651 Harris-street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W. , , ,
“About eight years ago I was a great sufferer from rheumatism, often having to take to my bed
for three or four weeks at a time. I tried all kinds of medicines without getting any better, and at
last gave up all hope of ever getting well. Several of my friends recommended me to take Warner s
Safe Cure, but I was so sick and tired of taking different medicines that for some time I refused to
follow the advice. I gave in at length, and now lam glad to say that I ana entirely free from my old
complaint, and have not had a touch of it for about seven years, thanks to Warner s Cafe Cure.
From Mr. Albert E. Long, Port Pirie, S. A., 9th January, 1903.
“I am pleased to report that I have taken five bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure for rheumatism, and
that the result was marvellous. The pain has all left me, I have gained a stone in weight, and am
now in good health.” ,
From R. A. Thompson, Mining Engineer, 148 Adelaide Terrace, Perth, W.A., 21st July, 1902.
“ When writing you some time back as to the efficacy of Warner's Safe Pills m biliousness, 1
mentioned being about to try a course of Warner’s Safe Cure for gout. The result of taking the
medicine was simply wonderful, as many people in Perth can testify, and I speak gratefully of the
benefit I received. The action of the medicine was this : First, a gradual toning up of the stomach,
then better appetite, purer blood-making, and slow (at first) but sure disappearance of the gout. The
food taken during the course was plain but wholesome. I am also glad to tell you that many of my
acquaintances have derived great benefit from both the Safe Pills and the Safe Cure. [lo.]
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., Limited.
YOU
CAN'T
BEAT
FINNEY'S
ACROSTIC.
Have you seen our
New FASHION CATA-
LOGUE? We will post
you one for the ask-
ing 1 . Send us a Card.
YENNIFF Blankets soft bespread are the best for cot and bed.
Overcoats of FINNEY’S make capture the sartorial cake.
Underwear at FINNEY’S prices cheap may be, yet always nice is.
Costumes from each fashion centre, charm all womankind that enter.
Art in dress, one hears them say, “ Has to FINNEY’S come to stay .
Neckties and all merceries bought at FINNEY’S always please*
’Tis at FINNEY’S wise men get Gloves wherewith to pay a bet.
BIG BLOCK Suits—their fame resounds—made to measure for Two Pounds.
English Serges, Scottish Tweeds. “Sterner stuffs” for schoolboy needs.
Africkander ostrich herds send the feathers for “ fine birds
That from FINNEY’S Showrooms grace many a charming Queensland face.
FINNEY’S first 1 Eclipse like! (Where OTHERS come WE shan’t declare).
If you are a “ country mouse,” see this old established House.
Novelties you’ll find abound—FINNEY’S folk will show you round.
Note the goods and note their price ; tell your neighbors, twill suffice!
Every morning FINNEY’S mails, bring rich fruit of “ travellers tales.
Yes ! While hostile arms and fleet bid great nations taste defeat,
’Still old FINNEY’S can’t be beat (Adelaide and Edward Street).
Finney, Isles & Co., Limited, The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
OSTRICH PLUSES
LLER
Black, White, Creanii
Natural, or Black
tipped with White.
5/
Length, 12 inches.
Post free.
The Feathers vve offer
you cannot be bought
for twice the money
in any other house.
They are the best value ever offered
in Australia. Buy to-day, or write
for one. Send Postal Note or Money
Order to John Miller.
ghk
From the
Famous Farms
of South Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, Natural,
or Black and
White mixed.
(15 inches)
10/6
Post
Free
There is practi-
cally nothing
more becoming
soft setting given her
bead by really good
face and
feathers.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY.
ILLUSTRATED PRIOE LIST POST FREE.
ghk
OSTRICH TIPS,
From the Farms of Africa.
Black, White,
Cream, or Black
tipped with White.
Length 10 inches..
3 for 10/-
There’s a charm about
Miller’s Ostrich Tips no
other trimming can impart.
Natural Ostrich Boas, 21s. Length 1$ yards.
Vim
This New
Fashionable Mount,
2 Tips with Osprey,
Black, Cream, or
Black tipped with
White.
3/
The Bunch.
Post free.
We make this SPECIAL
OFFEB to advertise out
Ostrich Tips. Write to-
day. Send Postal Note.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Dept. P., Corner Strand Arcade, PITT ST. r SYDNEY
Also at Cor. Bourko and Swanston Sts., Melbourne. Mention The Bulletin.
My Melbourne correspondence continues: —
“New rules are enlivening the course of the
Alexandra She-Club. Men visitors are now rele-
fated to one part of the premises for tea with their
ostesses, and another portion is kept clear of all
male encumbrances. There are some members
who do not encourage man, in tweed or the
abstract, and they have secured a feeding reserve
for themselves. They there surround the sand-
wich in exclusively petticoat company, and leave
the more skittish to nibble at their scones with
Johnnie-guests.
“The bow-wow of the Tooralc poodles and
pocket terriers is heard all over the land. The
dames take their pet barkers driving and on their
call-rounds. Sometimes Jehu looks after the
beast. Other times the owner takes the yelperin
to the house and demands for it biscuits and a
milk-shake. One inveterate spinster takes her
three pets out for a walk, and blows on a chate-
laine whistle when they would fain get frisking
with the common pedestrian dog. A charming
grass-widow has been photographed with a pug
snuggling against her pink cheek. It isn't so
much a matter of Beauty and the Beast as an
elaborate token of safe company and affection
while her husband is away.
“Up in Bananaland there is a flourishing
Governesses’ Home. I don’t think there’s another
in Australia. Every dancing season a ball is held
for this Home. Considering that governesses are
the worst paid and often the worst treated of
all the she-toiling classes, the wonder is that the
Christian Endeavorers in other States, who provide
beads and handkerchiefs and socks for the dusky
heathen in far-off climes, do not turn their surplus
care to the needs of a Governesses’ Retreat.
“The new evening frocks are admitting larger
strips of bare shoulder and backbone than for-
merly. Once it didn’t matter how little of one
was revealed at the back, providing the chest was
shown to advantage. But the vagaries of Eashion
have no end. The bravest are going minus shoul-
der supports. By keeping the bodice boned up to
the top tier there is no fear of losing that portion
of the toilette in the theatre or ballroom, so they
say. But it wouldn’t be nice to try it and to sud-
denly find yourself about to swing with your
partner in a jolly set of lancers after your bodice
had slipped clean off, leaving you like an inoppor-
tune corset ‘ad.’ in the centre of the room.
“A trouser-designer lets off a wild whoop in
the lucubration termed the Sartorial Art
Journal This is some of it: —
If the tailor’s thoughts are poetic, he can issue pastorals
in colors that are charmingly suggestive of hillsides or
meadow, foliage, or waving grain ; he can make his over-
coats speak of December, his dress suits of frolic and
festivities, his frock coats of dignity and wealth, his cut-
aways of self-content, and his sacks of strenuousness, and
he can make his waistcoats jingle like laverocks, his
trousers sing- of sunshine or of rain and mud, his spring
suits chortle of hope and joy, and his summer suits
prattle of flowers. ,
In a further burst of blank hyperbole the man of
Shears trolls of imparting musical expression to
the poetically-cut clothes, suggesting a whole
orchestral range in the hue of tweed, the set of a
vest, or the hang of a coat. And yet, strangely
enough, the way the real poet bags at the knees is
often dreadful. And one of the finest poems
about a sunset that ever appeared in Australia
was penned, I am told, when the writer had no
collar on.
“Justice Madden’s youngest daughter, Beatrice,
who still wears long hair and shortish skirts,
grows more like her comely sisters, and be-
gins to appear here and there at social junkets,
m preparation for her emergence from the chry-
salis stage. Mrs. Yallange, formerly Miss Sylvia
Madden, looks older since her return from Eng-
land this time, and reveals more and more diver-
gence from the physical type supposed to be sui'*-
able to a lady whose first name is Sylvia.
“It is characteristic of the public ingratitude
that Miss Sutherland, who is a mother and a bene-
factor to the neglected children of Melbourne,
should be so low down on the list of the Herald s
Ten Best Citizens, while rich and garish self-
advertisers rushed the front seats, ibis large-
hearted lady makes the youngest infants among
her charges her own special care. Eleven babies
always sleep in her room o’ nights, and this
number is added to freely, if necessary.
“ Is elopement hereditary, like the habit of not
having any children ? Two families in this State
are asking the question. In both cases the
parents had gone to the registrar, or a ready
ecclesiastical joiner and fastener, for the marriage-
lines. Now a daughter of each couple has followed
suit. Two angry papas want to know the mean-
ing of such depravity. Two tearful mammas
retort with: ‘Have you forgotten, dear?’ Of
course they had forgotten. The brutes always do
forget little things of that kind. Henceforth,
Paterfamilias will taboo the tale of his romantic
wooing and unceremonious wedding, and forbid
his missus to repeat the story to the children.
One charming little girl, in her teens, when con-
fessing the story to her tearful but highly-
interested mommer, made the appeal go right
home. ‘lf Ernest and I are only as happy as you
and papa, I shall be content.’ After that, what
can a mommer, who is not yet grey or hardened,
do but cry and kiss her darling, and ask a blessing ?
“An auctioneer has been talking to me.
‘ Women are, above all things, covetous and emula-
tive. A knowing party sets a bid rising, and all
the others follow suit till I blush at the figure they
have run a rather cheap bit of bric-a-brac to. At
a recent sale in Malvern a record price was struck
for all the big items in the catalogue. I assure
you the bidding was never brisker at a house and
furniture sale in my recollection. The figures ex-
ceeded our wildest expectations. A few men in
the trade closed up their lists and cleared early in
the sale—seeing, as I did, that the wealthy women
had lost their heads, and were out-bidding each
other regardless of price. Carpets, curtains, two
pianos, and all the heavy furniture brought more
than was originally paid for them. And this after
two years’ use ! ’
“ There is sadly wanted a convent-school series
of picture post-cards. Last week 1 had an im-
pulse to add to a cloistered kid’s collection. I
expected to easily seize on a suitable one at a
hazard, scrawl the address, and drop it in
the postal pillar. But the first was a wicked
thing. The second was a nerve-shocker. The
third was a violent atrocity. The fourth was all
bibulous buffoonery. The fifth was an insult to
the sex that can’t help sometimes remaining single.
The sixth was gross. . The most decorous were
the least artistic. I fingered hundreds in a fruit-
less hunt for one in any way suitable., The comic
selection (the saleswoman told me, in a tired tone,
they were sold as comic) were chiefly dog and
policeman. I left the shop with a pussy-cat series
rather than hurt the feelings of the saleswoman.
Some idle photographer or etcher should give his
attention to a series of post-cards for the very
young and innocent.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
BROKEN HILL CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 19
ADELAIDE G. N. HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., August 12...
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., September 11
DEMONSTRATION HANDICAP, Canterbury Park, N.S.W., October 2
50,000 at 5/2 each,
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss m Ticket, and 4d. on each IOSm Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
ALWAYS TRUE
HIM
f
l<
ghk
mm
ALCOCKS TABLES
THE WAY I DO MY BUYINOI
When the day* 1 wofk is*(oneand I've
time to remember that the boys or
piyself want some New Clothing I
just sit down comfortably and write to
LINCOLN,/
STUART • Co!
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE (/'/
for their book "The Philosophy of Dress” ands
some patterns of cloths, of which they send'i
me a great variety by return of post, I then*
read the book and see what will suit me. '
Haying made my selection, and come to a'
decision, I send them the order on their
special Measure Form, when finished, the goods
are sent to me and the Carriage is prepaid.
I find by this plan that I buy just as well as
U I was in town, and am splendidly fitted
and suited in every way.
To oblige the Firm I always tell them
which paper I saw their advertisement in.
Wi
Sum
Write to-day
for
Patterns
and the Book,
201.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
Soreness m the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is inosfc com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generallv sufficient
and a Complete Cure is certain. s J
BEIWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling: representative for a mercantile
house. Having- contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me suoh relief as your
Bronchitis Cure. —Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
CONGESTION OP THE LUNGS.
A BAD CASE QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Sir,—Will you please send m« some medicine for the
following illness : —A fortnight ago I had Influenza, and
it settled on the lungs. I now have congestion of the
lungs ; the doctor says so, but his treatment has not done
me any good. My breathing is short, and I have a short
cough and a frothy-white spit; my sides are sore to
the touch, and painful. It hurts me to lie down. I
am very weak, and I perspire a lot at night, and my body
and lungs feel burning. lam getting worse. I feel
worse to-day. Please post the necessary medicine to
Sorrento, and I will send you the money, and oblige,
M. J. BOXELL,
Relieving Postmistress, Sorrento, Victoria.
The treatment sent effected a complete cure, as the
following letter testifies :
Mr. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Many thanks for the medicine. I herewith
enclose postal note in payment. lam much obliged to
you for sending the medicine so promptly. It has done
me a lot of good; in fact, I have quite recovered.
M. J. BOXELL.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir,—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states: —“ I am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.”
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
t " au B'^ er > who had been troubled with a bad cough
P twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
You are at liberty to use this letter in any wav you
please.—Yours respectfully, OHAS. WOOTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. M3' wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elstemwick, Victoria,
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to' try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottles of it, as
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney,
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s- 6dU
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANV ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
gwANCH depot. ojg ce . 2j 0 ]?i 00r) Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


To wash clothes as they
ought to be washed it takes
SUNLIGHT SOAP
MONKEY brand
WON’T WASH CLOTHES
BUT IT IS REALLY CAPITAL
FOR SCOURING KITCHEN UTENSILS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
- desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with ct
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label. _
WHAT irritation and distress come from raw, chapped hands!
If the skin is at all sensitive a person suffers more or less in
this way all the year round, but during the winter the con-
dition of the hands becomes a positive torture. First the skin
loses its pleasant “feel,’’ and there is pronounced roughness and redness,
hkgh
followed by cracking and bleed-
ing, particularly in the region
of the knuckles and the wrist.
A few applications of Zatn-Buk
will ensure a thorough healing
of the cracks, and will make the
skin soft and pliable, as witness
the case of Mr. D. Doughty, of
24 Corbett-street, Ballarat East,
Victoria. This gentleman says :
“By calling I am a gardener,
and during last winter I suffered
considerably with chapped and
cracked hands, and chilblains.
Seeing Zam-Buk advertised, I
procured a supply, and applied
it to my hands. The healing
and soothing effect was wonder-
ful, and after only a fortnight’s
treatment my hands were
thoroughly healed. Zam-Buk is,
without doubt, unequalled as a
healing and soothing balm.”
ZAM-BUK, the Great Healer,
is a SPEEDY CURE for PILES,
CUTS, BOILS, BRUISES,
SORE LEGS, RINGWORM, RHEUMATISM, SORE THROAT, CHILBAINS,
etc. Obtainable from all Medicine Vendor's at 1/6, or 3/6 FAMILY SIZE (containing
nearly four times the quantity), or from THE ZAM-BUK CO., 39 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY. Send a penny stamp for FREE SAMPLE POT.
1^
>
SSSS
X'x
K>'^*
C
vN
<.V^
mm
n
ss
N
Ru.b it in”
- j
wmmsgsm
Down the Gorge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HEARD a bit-bar rattle
And horse-hoofs pacing near.
In the starlight and the silence—
How they broke the starlight silence
In the gorge !
Then I heard the tramp of cattle—
Heard a leader bellow clear,
As he led the mob, a-staring—
Breathing hard with big eyes staring,
Down the gorge.
Down the gorge a drover jingled,
In the starlight pictured clear,
Oh ! his horse stepped out so gaily,
Going homeward, blithe and gaily,
Down the gorge.
And the tramp of cattle mingled
With the jangling saddle-gear,
As they shouldered down the roadway—
Fence to cliff they filled the roadway —
Down the gorge.
Flash of horns and scent of meadows,
. Round the bend the cattle came—
Just a mass beneath the star-light,
Shapeless bodies ’neath the star-light—
In the gorge.
Staring wild-eyed at the shadows,
Partly wild and partly tame ;
And the drover started singing—
Light of heart he led them, singing,
Down the gorge.
Down the gorge came noisy laughter
And the cracking of a whip,
And the mass of cattle shuddered —
Snorted loud and plunged and shuddered
Down the gorge.
Came a string of wild oaths after
From a ribald, mocking lip,
As the pack-horse brought the camp-gear.
Trotting to the clank of camp-gear,
Down the gorge.
Down the gorge the leaders bellowed,
Challenging the drover’s song.
But the cliff is on the near side.
And a fence is on the sheer side, j
Down the gorge.
And the drovers’ grim hearts mellowed
As they rushed the mob along ;
For the cattle could not scatter—
There is little room to scatter
Down the gorge.
Came at last the stragglers running
From the stinging, cracking lash
Of the sturdy, silent drovers,
All abreast they rode—three drovers —
Down the gorge.
And the whips were lithe and cunning ;
With their horns and eyes a-flash,
Came the tired and footsore stragglers,
Running from the whips—poor stragglers !
Down the gorge.
Down the gorge I heard the mellow
Voice of someone singing still,
And the dust hung in the roadway—
Just a film above the roadway—
In the gorge.
And an old cow’s startling bellow
Echoed loud and very shrill,
As she went with soft eyes staring,
All alert and great eyes staring,
Down the gorge.
Then the dust sank in the shadows,
The last hoof-beat died away ;
And once more a sleepy silence—
Such a starlit, radiant silence—
Filled the gorge.
Came a whiff of scented meadows,
Ripening corn and drying hay.
Then I heard a weka calling—
Bike a lost soul, calling, calling—
Up the gorge.
ii. 1..
WILL DAWSON.
The Prescription.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f INHERE was an indefinable suggestion of
familiarity about the figure which emerged
from the dark archway. This suggestion
resolved itself as the man’s face took the light.
Of course; it was Ellars. Years ago, somewhat
to my relief, I had lost touch with him. Rumor
had spoken, in uncertain voice, of a position a 3
chemist's assistant, in Melbourne. At all events,
his accustomed place knew him no more. And
now, his face, springing suddenly upon me out of
the dark, woke old memories.
“Well, dear old chap!” he said. His same
infernal manner. Then, “ I’m stumped ; cleaned
out; stony,” he informed me in dramatic cres-
cendo. In the face of this, there could remain no
possible doubt. It was Ellars, right enough.
And I had that day put my money on the right
horse. Five shillings, perhaps
He took the money with extravagant promises
of repayment.
“You’re just the same as ever,” he murmured,
gratefully; “a friend in need.” He counted the
spoils, and his face lit up. “ Why, this is gene-
rous. ” And, amongst the silver, behold the yellow
gleam of gold. One pound four ! Confound it!
I resolved to check in future my vicious habit of
surrendering to my generous impulses. It was no
use explaining my mistake to him. I knew him.
With unexampled audacity he invited me to
drink. A refusal was upon the tip of my tongue.
And then, quite casually, he spoke of a dead
friend. I am, by nature, somewhat sentimental.
I changed my mind ; after all
This drink, for which, by the way, he changed
my sovereign, led to others. Then came Harry
Ford and young Pegrum.
“ Hullo, , Ellars ! Still alive? Hoped you
were dead,” said the uncompromising Ford.
Ellars laughed. “The same as ever,” he said.
“ The same old rough diamond.”
“ I heard,” answered Ford, “ some tale of
poisoned women in Melbourne seven years ago.
Thought you might have ” He encircled his
throat with both hands and stuck his tongue out.
“By Jove! That was a funny affair. But
you’ve got it wrong—nobody died. It might
have worked out that way, though. If you’d like
to hear ” —and then he started.
“ I came out to this blistered country because my
father was such a Oh, I never told you about
him, did I? Well, he was an unctuous and holy
sea-captain, and had other drawbacks. I ran
away when I was 16, and had a rough time. I
got a job at a chemist’s in London; I’d nearly
finished my course in chemistry at the Polytechnic.
Fifteen shillings a week—and I earned it. But I
learned a good deal about dispensing there.
After two years’ misery and semi-starvation I
found a berth as under-steward on the old Cuzco.
A steward sees human nature with its pretty
clothes off. He gets low ideas, and —well, I sup-
pose I was not sufficiently servile.
“ I landed here with £1 4s. Bd. in my pocket. I
remember thinking, as I counted it, of the pleasure
it would give me to look back from the lofty emi-
nence of £4OOO a year, upon the poor lad of
eighteen who had landed—Bah ! The one-four-
and-eightpenny stage has been, with sundry
fluctuations, my financial footing ever since, said
fluctuations usually upon the wrong side. Five
years after that I had risen on stepping-stones of
my dead patients to higher things. I was a duly
unqualified doctor in a very small way. It was
about that time that I met you. You took me up
enthusiastically as a new addition to your artistic
menagerie. I appeared as the picturesque black-
guard —oh yes, I recognised my distorted features
in your very indifferent illustrations. Recollect
that one about the villainous seducer, of gentle-
manly manners? But, Lord bless you, I’m an
easy-going chap. And you had to live, same as
me.
“So I sold electric belts and aqua pumpa and
cascara, and tincture of valerian, and sulphate of
magnesia to timid souls whose insides were out of
order. Indigestion is a great boon to the quacks.
It is responsible for that tired feeling and those spots
before the eyes that we notice as the chief items of
news in the daily papers. If I’d only had the
money to advertise ! Ah, well!
“Then came the Medical Act. I tell you, it
fluttered the duckponds. Some of the biggest of
us brought in a real M.D. who had fallen —drink
—cards—or —... Falling is so easy, and there are
so many ways ! The quack would run his business
under the poor devil’s name, and all would go
well. But for us ducklings it was a freeze-out. I
tried calling myself a ‘specialist,’ but it didn’t
seem to cut ice the way ‘doctor’ did. And,
anyway, I was too young.
“ Wherefore you behold me with old Burden,
druggist, Collins-street, Melbourne. Funny old
chap. Burden—snuffling, slipshod—wore an old
silk coat and talked about his long experience.
But he was a white man, and he liked me.
‘ You’re a good dispenser,’ he’d say, ‘but you lack
initiative, Bob.’ Funny how we strike others,
isn’t it? ‘Too literal’ was another criticism of
Burden’s.
“ My word, there are some funny doings in a
chemist’s shop !If the doctors only knew—or the
public ! I’ve seen Burden deliberately alter quan-
tities in a prescription—even going so far as to
take out an ingredient he considered dangerous.
As for me, I put ’em all in, hence the complaint
of literalness. This particular trouble started
with a badly-written prescription. I’ve kept it as
a memento of the worst time I ever spent. Here
it is.”
He took out the paper ; it was badly written—
almost as illegible as a Chinese sign, or a decadent
poet’s manuscript.
I handed it to Ford. Ford laughed. “ That
doesn’t mean anything?” he said questioningly..
“Yes it does,” replied Ellars. “ It’s quite in-
telligible—a sort of influenza tonic. It was the
last ingredient that I misunderstood. He has
written it as if it were Ag. Chlor. You notice
the way the tail of the second letter turns. _
“Well, Burden was out when this atrocity was
brought in. A navvy, half-seas over, handed it
across the counter to me and sat, owlishly regard-
ing the green and red bottles in the window, while
I made it up. ‘Ag chlor ’ gave me pause, though.
Seemed a lot of lunar caustic —well! It wasn’t
my funeral; the doctor ought to know; he had
put it there. In it went.
“‘Here you are, sir,’ I said. ‘Half-a-crown,
please.’ As he fumbled in his pocket he gave me
incoherent particulars of his ‘ missus’ ’ illness. I
got rid of him as quickly as I could. He called
me ‘ mate,’ and I didn’t like it, being still young
and sensitive. You laugh. Well, never mind. I
was, though.
“ I showed the copy of the prescription to Bur-
den when he came in. ‘ What’s this ?’ he said,
pointing to the last item. * That’s what it said,’
I answered.
“‘Good Lord!’ His eyes bulged out of his
head. ‘ You’ve never put that in ? ’
“ ‘ I have.’
“‘You must have read it wrong. Sure that
“ g ” wasn’t a “ q ”? ’
“*lf it was, it was a damned bad “ q,” ’ I said.
“ ‘But these other things. You ass, Bob ! Can’t
you see, it’s a tonic ? And what on earth would
silver chloride be doing in a tonic ? We’ll have to
get that bottle back, quick. Stay here, while I
go and see Dr. Layton. I’ll get the address from
him.’
“He came back with flag half-mast. The doctor
couldn’t give the address. It was a lodge patient;
he didn’t keep account of minor cases. But it was
a ‘ g.’ And, if one inquired at the lodge, &c., &c.
One did inquire. I hunted up the South Yarra
branch of the Aged Disorder of Incoherent Owls.
They couldn’t tell me. I was scared a whole lot.
The obscene George had moved quite recently, and
had not, so far, given his new address. Perhaps
if I called round that evening, about 7, and all the
rest of it. You know—nice and polite, but use-
less. Still, I gave it one more trial; I arrived on
schedule time, but George was unpleasantly absent.
I went back feeling pretty sick, and old Burden
and myself resigned ourselves to the worst. I
didn’t sleep much that night, and got up at day-
break to study the morning paper. But there
were no sudden deaths which seemed to indicate
that infernal medicine.
“At ten o’clock I was making up pdls, when
lo ! Mr. George. I dodged behind the dispensing
screen, and . nearly fainted. It s coming, I
thought, ‘Good heavens, it’s coming.’ Burden
faced the music—there is something in experience
after all. He was in a blue funk, but he put on
his best professional manner; sort of mixture of
profound knowledge and sympathetic interest. I
listened, shaking in my shoes ; I could hear my
teeth rattling. ,
“ ‘ I say, mister, began the unspeakable George,
‘ that medicine ’
•“Well. Anything wrong?’
“ The navvy shifted his weight from leg to leg.
‘Yes,’ he said. . . „ , ,
“Imagine my sensations. But Burden kept
cool, and only said ‘Well?’ _
‘“Ye s«e, mister, ’twas this way. The young
bloke here can tell you—well, I s’pose he saw I
was a bit shikkered yesterday when I come m for
the lotion. I’d bin out o’ work a couple o’ days—
you know ’ow a bloke meets ’is mates. Come-
an’-’ave-a-drink ... See ! ’Alf a dozen times.
An’ there you are.’
“Burden waited, all attention.
“‘An’ when I left ’ere—well, a few more
mates —an’ a few more wets. Fact is, I lost the
dashed bottle —beg pardon, mister. Seem to
remember droppin’ it an’ ’ —he scratched his head.
I could have embraced him. ‘I say, mister,’he
went on, ‘seein’ it warn’t used—’arf a crown is
’arf a crown these days.’
*• I came from behind the screen ; my relief left
me shaky at the knees.
“ ‘Bob,’ said Burden, ‘I think it’s worth half a
crown, don’t you ? ’
“ Burden was a white man—he didn’t even sack
me. Gave me an improving lecture on the
chemist as interpreter, drawing analogies from
that chap with the long hair who plays the piano.
‘Just,’said he, ‘as what’s-his-name stands mid-
way between the great composers and the music-
lovers, so we stand between the doctors and their
patients. And, by heavens, the patients need it. ’
“Well, he may have been right. He died a
year ago ; peace to his ashes. And that’s all the
story.”
“Five minutes past eleven, gentlemen,” said
the weary barmaid.
N.S.W.
HOWARD ASHTON.


A WORD TO WOMEN
ABOUT
ĥ
Backache
Kidney
Ills.
rhey Cure Backache, Weak Back, Rheumatism,
Oiabetes, Congestion of the Kidneys, Inflamma-
ion of the Bladder, Gravel, Bright’s Disease,
Dropsy, and all Urinary Disorders.
u
y-'
m'
111
7mm 'inJt
IKI
u Every
Picture tells
a Story.'*
Are You Nervous and Irritable P
Are You Run-Down or Rheumatic?
Kidney Trouble Affects the Whole System,
Women who suffer from pain or dull ache in the back,
loins, or sides, from dizzy spells, rheumatic twinges, urinary
troubles, gravel, sciatica, flatulence, headaches, who can't stoop,
can’t eat, can’t sleep, are recommended to try Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills; for Doan’s Pills help the kidneys to purify the
blood and drive out the poisons that cause fatal kidney com-
plaints, such as dropsy, Bright’s disease, and diabetes.
Doan’s Pills have been in use for the past 75 years ; they
help the kidneys in their great blood-filtering work, and give
tone to the whole kidney organism. Some of our neighbors—
Sydney women—tell here how lasting their cures have proved.
Sydney People Cured.
PROM BALMAIN.
Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion-street, Balmain, says:—“ Over four years ago X
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for cold in the Kidneys. I was subject to
that trouble at the time; every cold would fly to my kidneys. In fact, when
troubled, the pain in the back would be frightful. It seemed to affect my whole
system. A short course of these pills cured me. I have had no cold in the
kidneys since, as the pills seemed to fortify these organs against changes in the
weather, and such conditions which bring out that troublesome ailment. I made
a statement to this effect four years ago. I am pleased to confirm it. I’ve re-
commended these pills to many who suffer with the kidneys.”
FROM HUNTER ST. I
Mrs. M. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, this city, says :—“For about three years
I suffered with kidney derangement. The worst symptom was a constant back-
ache, which became more painful whenever I stooped much. I tried many
remedies for this complaint, and the results were anything but beneficial, but
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills permanently cured me. When I say‘cured,’l
mean that it is over twelve months since I used these pills, and I’ve had no
return of the old pain. I have advised many people to use Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and all have obtained very good results from their use.”
Four years later, Mrs. Mullins informs us that she is still well. “ I have
never had a sign of the complaint since,” she says. “ They are splendid pills,
and have made a great difference in my health.” The permanent cure in my
case speaks for itself.”
Be sure you get the Genuine
DOAN’S like your neighbor had.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and Stores
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of
price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
Samson’s Christening.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
ONE of the deftest things that had
marked the short career of Samson Bor ley
Brown was the naming of him—all were
agreed upon that.
And, like many another successful achievement,
this was the result of compromise ; for Samson had
been born to a social station, where strife and dis-
putation are breathed in the very air.
_ However, there it was : Samson from his sire’s
sire; Borley from his mother’s. It mattered
nothing to Samson that, before this felicitous
expedient had been adopted, his father, “Billy”
Brown, and his mother, Tilda, had been in an°ry
contention over the matter; that Tilda had
resisted Billy’s proposal to perpetuate his own
William as being common, and had desired
to substitute Belvidere, a prince in her novelette,
who had gathered her emotions as a bundle
of twigs in his beautiful white hands, and
set them blazing in her foolish heart. Serenely
passive, too, had Samson lain when Billy
smarting under opposition, disparagement and
jealousy, had promptly allayed his feelings
by laying out” Tilda with a right “hook?”
otil], despite all hindrances, matters had been finally
arranged; and only that very Sunday afternoon
had Samson been baptised by the Church, and
pledged to manfully fight against sin, the world,
and the devil to his life’s end.
Not that the residents of Sydney “Rocks”
were touchy on nice observance of such rites. On
the contrary, this signal distinction for Samson
had been scored for him by Tilda in the teeth of
powerful opposition, and had set some neighbors
staring open-eyed, and moved others to ribald
laughter and jest.
On the whole, the party had managed to assume
a tolerable air of decorum. Samson himself, gor-
geous in strong and violently-opposed colors;
Billy and his friend “ Dodo ” Betts, each adorned
with a narrow streak of red tie (minus collar),
which exactly bisected lengthwise a plaster of
white shirt-front; Billy’s maternal grandmother
smartened up with odds and ends; Lila Seers,
“friend” of Dodo’s, so redundantly wrought in
hues and gauds as to drive a short, sharp little
intake of breath through Tilda every time her
wistful gaze tore itself from them; and, finally,
Tilda herself, whom the demands of Samson had
left no more than creditably neat. The ugly
mark on her face from Billy’s fist was in some
manner cunningly put out of sight.
As the party straggled home from the church
through the devious paths of the “Rocks,” with
the sun turning his search-light upon many a
crime-knowing, wicked old wall, unrepentant in
its_ old age, Tilda had been conscious of a sub-
duing emotion she had not experienced since the
day of her marriage in the same church 12 months
before. Well, Samson had been started decently,
at any rate; and if luck favored them, he should
be put to something when he grew up that would
keep him respectable and honest—better, Tilda
reflected, than Billy’s own dubious calling.
This, by the way, was inherently elusive and
baffling of description. Billy did an occasional
fay out as crier with the bottles or the wild
rabbi ; was a plausible expounder at suburban
doorways of the horse’s plight and the bargain of
wood waiting in the cart; and did any odd jobs
for which he could prefer himself, or which he
could be induced to “take on.” But Tilda was
hopeful even for Billy himself—if he would only
work ! He was but twenty-two. There was an old
look about his face, though, which would have be-
lied this; moreover, she did not carry her own
twenty years any too well.
I here is a bad old custom which has strained
through the forebears of such as Billy, and
this custom demands that a christening should
be marked by the excessive imbibing of strong
drink; and though Tilda had mildly pro-
tested, the liquor had been produced as soon
as tea was over. However, she desired to
avoid being censorious, and for comfort her
eyes would stray now and then to Samson as
he lay asleep on the floor in his finery, which she
had not yet found it in her heart to remove.
There was never any difficulty in getting Samson
to sleep ; indeed his gravity and silent acquiescence
m all that befel him sat somewhat curiously on his
small face.
As the evening wore on and cards were aban-
doned, the conversation began to betray a tendency
to dangerous personalities, and Tilda’s hopes of
getting Billy to bed sober, and of closing the
festival without infraction of harmony, became a
little desperate. Gathered round the table, too,
as they were, the party had just that quality of
fixed proximity which was a menace in itself.
■u j u sheer ill-luck Tilda herself, who alone
had been worried by fears of discord, was the
first to unwittingly provoke it into flame.
* Well, if I can,” she had exclaimed earnestly
n;he conversation had turned to the future of
Samson), “ 111 keep ’im straight; any’ow, so’s ’e
don t see th’ inside o’ no gaol, please Gawd.”
Now this was a singularly infelicitous remark.
She saw it herself in a flash ; but unluckily it was
beyond recall.
Billy scowled and Lila laughed.
“Yus,” observed Lila; “’avin’ bin in yerself
yer can tell ’im wot it’s like, can’t yer,” lauehine
again. & &
“Shut yer bioomin’ mouth !” growled Dodo.
Shan t! ” snapped Lila, spite leaping to her
flushed face.
“ ’Ere, my Gawd, wot’s this ? ” demanded Billy,
looking round helplessly, his face suddenly lit
with stark surprise.
“There, there,” maudlinly soothed grandma,
wed agreed not ter tell yer, thinkin’ as you,
bem ead o the family, wouldn’t like it. ’Twas
on y a week, an’ it’s all over long ago. You be
quiet, Billy ; ’ave a little drop more.”
‘‘No. no!” anxiously cried Tilda; “no more
Billy.
ii. P on k be so a rd on the pore boy,” expostu-
lated grandma, petulantly shaking her shoulders.
Let im soothe ’is feelin’s, silly—can’t yer see
es urt!
T! .‘‘ l bi . n disgraced ! I bin disgraced ! ” blurted
Billy, with sottish emotion, near to crying. He
continued to stare about him, looking for sym-
pathy and explanation. He paid no heed to
J ilda s miserable, dejected look.
“Chuck it!” shot from Dodo. “’Ow’d she
disgrace you 1 She showed ’erself better nor wot
you was, anyway. ”
lously 6^611 ° W? ” wbim Pered Billy, incredu-
Didn’t yer git a month’s ’ard fer bashin’ ’er
when y adnt bin married to ’er more’n three
days ? 5 demanded Dodo, significantly.
“Wot o’ that ? ” burst from Billy, hotly.
“ Wot o’ that! ” slowly sneered Dodo. “Didn’t
Lila pull y’ off ’er, an’ didn’t Tilda git up then an’
bash ’er fer touchin’ yer? Gawd’s truth, the
bloke wot sent ’er up fer that !—’ere, I dunno,” he
concluded, lamely but disgustedly.
“ I’ve got the marks on me face now,” venom-
ously fired in Lila.
A ® ne cobber you are I ” taunted Billy,
glanng at Dodo. “Didn’t I ’ave ter do more
paft nor I ever done before ? ” he demanded at
large, fiercely. “Didn’t they shove the ’ardest
jobs on ter me?”
. ", Thf/s swines fer yer ! ” indignantly and feel-
ingly chimed in grandma.
“ Ar-r-r! ” snarled Billy in his throat, his head
taking violently at the repugnant reminiscence.
An’ ain’t she ’ad ter work, too ? ” jeered Dodo,
sarcastically ; “or did yer leave ’er the key o’ yer
cash-box, or yer cheque book ? ”
Work, yer call it,” laughed Lila, disparag-
ingly.
“So I did work,” sharply declared Tilda, net-
tled. “ Fom might look down on it, becos we all
knows as you’re a bit above work.”
Lila’s lips curled. “ I ain’t taken up with no
Ghinaman, anyway,” she exclaimed, contemptu-
ously.
“ Shut up ! ” savagely threatened Dodo.
‘ Shan’t! ” viciously uttered Lila.
“Chinaman!’’ cried Billy, dazed with drink,
the thought of his trials, and the sudden appear-
ance of this new trouble. “Chinaman !” he
repeated, as one in sight of the unbelievable.
“ On’y Kong Mo,” interposed grandma, ex-
cusably, nudging him with milicing irritability.
Don tbe so fretful! On’y ’irn in ’is laundry so’s
ter keep yer own ’ome together. When she’d
done ’er week no one else ’ud ’ave ’er, pore thing.”
‘‘Why didn’t you graft?” furiously inquired
Billy, turning on her with an oath. “ Wot am I
keepin’ yer for, yer cow ?”
“Don’t be so fretful!” coquettishly repeated
grandma, coyly shaking her shoulders with
drunken pretence of offence.
“Dodo, Lila, go now,” pleaded Tilda, with
harassed face and desperate resolution. “I ain’t
unfriendly, but ”
“ I won’t ’ave ’em sent away,” hotly cried Billy,
smarting at this exclusion of his authority and
conscious that he hadn’t been showing to striking
advantage.
*'You wouldn’t’a’ got much work from Kong
Mo, venomously resumed Lila, smiling with de-
ceitful artlessness at Tilda, whose words, hinting
at her status, were still rankling. “He mostly ’as
Chows. P’r’aps ’e might ’a’ made up, though, by
givin yer ’isself as a friend,” she concluded, with
insinuating malice.
Hell! ! ” rang out from Billy. In an instant
he was on his feet, his semi-drunken repining and
contemplation of his wrongs suddenly blazing into
ugly savagery.
“Is it true?” he shouted at Tilda, standing
over her with truculent and menacing mien. <£ If
it is, Gawd strike me dead, I’m goin’ ter settle
yer ! Chuck it out! ”
“No ! ” she answered, cowering and raising her
arm to her face.
“ Sit down ! ’’ cried Dodo, menacingly, to Billy,
his face tense with rising passion, “or I’ll make
yer. ” And, by sheer weight of strength, he forced
him down.
But Billy’s passion, now worked up to boiling
point, had been cheated of any appeasing, and he
stared about him, with doubt and hesitation, until
his roving eye fell on the sleeping Samson.
Look at is fine clobber, ” he exclaimed, with
bitter reflection; “ money as ought ter be in my
pocket. ”
And then, in a flash, an idea occurred to him.
Darting across the room, he picked up the child,
and turning it to the light, peered long and
•losely into its faee. Startled from his slumber,
Samson opened his eyes, and mildly and patiently
returned the burning* look of the two evil-looking
red orbs he saw shining down upon him. Gra-
dually, the shadow of some sinister conviction
clouded Billy’s faoe, until it transformed it to a
mask of insensate blood-lust and cruelty.
By Gawd, ’ he yelled, suddenly electrified to
action, it s true ! I done with both on yer now.
Take the little josser !”
And, raising Samson on high, he flung him
down with ferocious energy at Tilda’s feet.
One long piercing shriek rent the little room.
Then came the moans and anguish of a heart riven
in pieces. But Samson was silent and still.
Yer satisfied?” snarled Dodo, low-voiced to
Lua. And without a sign the pair slunk silently
away.
* * * *
Grandma had tottered to the kitchen, and the
twain remaining exchanged no word. Tilda held
Samson closely pressed to her breast, her down-
cast, dull eyes looking at nothing out of a tearless
face, in which the light was extinguished.
Billy rose from the chair on which he had flung
himself, and reached for a bottle standing on the
table. Finding it to be empty, he slung it fiercely
into the fireplace, where it crashed into pieces.
At the instant the door opened, and there
briskly entered two men in uniforms and helmets.
One laid compelling and practised hands on Billy,
and, despite his violent, oath-punctured struggles,
held him easily.
“If yer dare to ’urt ’im,” shrieked Tilda,
springing up and advancing from her seat, and
hitching her charge closer, “I’ll”
“Shut up!” jeered Billy as, cleverly freeing
one arm, he sent her reeling backwards with a
blow that covered her mouth with blood.
The policeman said something that wasn’t in
the regulations, and snatched Billy violently out
into the darkness.
Tilda felt weak and sick with the force of the
blow Billy had dealt her, while the pressure of
events that were searing themselves into her brain
left her dazed, inert, and helpless. Everything
now, and all that had happened, seemed to be
separated from her by a film. She remembered
the afternoon ; the church ; the sunshine; the
hopes, too, for Billy and Samson—hopes that now
seemed like the gibbering spawn of idiots, mock-
ing her. And Samson, of course, particularly;
the sign of the cross on his forehead, where the
big blue mark was now—the mark of the blow
that had stilled him as a “faithful soldier and
servant ” for ever... How monotonous the clock
was, with its constant ticking !. ..
And then she heard the cackling tones of
grandma crooning herself to sleep with creaking,
crazy melody about a “Mistletoe Bough”—her
habit when drunk. And that, for a moment,
brought her to mundane things, and to remember
that there was scarcely any food in the house, nor
even a supply of oil to replenish the flickering lamp.
She glanced stonily, with what seemed a dead face,
towards her bedroom. Well, she had often crept to
it alone, after waiting for Billy to return from the
“ two-up ” club ; but he wouldn’t return to-night.
And she thought, as she mused, that marriage
must be the greatest “two-up” game in the
world; wherein for such as she, at any rate, there
was no luck in the fall of the coins. All the coins
of her life which she had spun to chance had fallen
prone to the earth hopelessly wrong in their
results.
And then the clock ceased ticking, and the room
became very quiet.
And in the quiet the door opened, and a man
entered. He was big and powerfully built, and
when he spoke his voice sounded strong and deep
The precarious play of the lamp showed him to be
the Ohinamun, Kong Mo.
N.S.W.
GEOGE MARTIN.


For Old and Young
Public School Teacner 30 Years. Overworked. Completely Pros-
trated. How to Get Strong and Well.
a
Pi
«
K
Mr. H. C. Bret-
tell, Rozelle-Bal-
main, N. S. W.,
sends the photo-
graph of himself
and grand chil-
dren, and says:
“Asa result of
overwork I be-
came completely
prostrated.
Friends advised
me to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I did
so, and before the
first bottle was
used I was able
to get up and
dress myself. Be-
fore I had used
three bottles my
appetite had re-
turned, and I was able to walk freely. Whenever I feel poorly I take a few
doses of Ayer's Sarsaparilla, and lam all right again. I have been a public
school teacher for more than thirty years, and I can truthfully say that I
believe Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is as good for the young as for the aged.”
This testimonial tells two remarkable things about Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
First, that it will cure people when they are very ill indeed, “completely
prostrated,” as Mr. Brettell says. It also tells how valuable a medicine it is
when one is not very ill, simply “feeling poorly.” The reason for this is
because Ayer's Sarsaparilla goes right to the foundation of things. In every
case it first removes all impurities from the blood, and then renews and
builds it up. This brings good appetite, sound digestion, strong nerves, and
robust health.
It is “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla you want, not some new, untried kind. Get
the old, genuine, original Sarsaparilla, “Ayer’s.”
AYER’S 3 arsaparilla
Prepared by DS. J. O* ATEB CO.. Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
s"sn>3xriE3'sr.
GOUT
IS OUR HERITAGE, AND WHAT
THE WORLD WANTS TO KNOW
IS HOW TO CURE IT.
GOUT
PILLS
Is the Great English Cure ior GOUT, and all
RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS. Thousands
have testified to it. For GOUT, RHEU-
MATISM, SCIATICA and LUMBAGO,
they claim a suporiority over all other Gout and
Rheumatic medicines.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during- their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Prout and Co., 229
Strand, London, and sold at Is. Rd. and 2s. 9d. per
box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
kgh
YOU CAN CURE AT HOME
the worst cases of Fits. The treatment is
simple; the results certain. Proofs,etc.,free
Or Six SI/- (enough for 8 months),
Twelve Bottles, 56'-. carriage pain.
Mb. Gilbert Dale, 4a Snow Hill, Hanley,
Staffs., Fng.
Drunkenness
Easily, Quickly, Safely and Absolutely
CURED AT HOME.
Dr. Langston’s Vegetable Cure cannot fail
MAY BE CIVEN SECRETLY.
A few doses produce a wonderful change. The
craving for all intoxicants will be destroyed, the
nerves become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. My cure wiil
surprise and delight you.
ONE OF many:
Ravensthorpe , TV.A., 23-9-04
Have finished the half course, which hat effected
a cure. I hare no desire for drink , in fact have a
repugnance to the very idea of it.
yours gratefully. R.G.
Write for Treatise. No. 5, Posted FREE.
Address •
WM. LANGSTON, V.R.C.S , Eng.
129 COLLINS STREET, Melbourne.
ĥ
ħ
VAmrnrcfc ibl ? Re ™ et,y for WEAKNESS, DEBILITY,
VARICOCELE, etc. Restores Energy, Strength
and Vitality to the most weak and shattered
constitutions. Send stamps for free pamphlet.
Pr 'ls and U 6d Ur quantities in one > 36s - height extra,
Agents for Austrkasicb- & CO., 47 Queen St.,
St i lv’ S tr ~ Fau,t,ing ' & Co -’ 16 O’Connell
ot., Sydney; Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
68
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. lEIjIDIRIIDG-lE] & GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from nil the colonies promptly
attended to.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BfiOMCHXTU
]TI AH.KHIKA, <fcc-, bears oa
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
IHB ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS at
Sept. 38 1806. says:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodynk. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
ts best recommendation.”
WEAK MADE STRONG!
r
Energy and Vigor.
Post Free.
OUR Electric Appliance
pours glowing, exhilar-
ating Vitality into you
while you sleep. It Animates
the sluggish circulation,
Stimulates the Brain to
Activity, and fills the body
with Life, Ambition, and
Endurance. It furnishes
the Motive Power that runs
your body, and quickly
Banishes Pain, Nervous-
ness and Debility. You rise
evei y morning Bright,
Cheerful, and Brimful of
Catalogue and Price List
ELECTRIC APPLIANCE CO.,
Dept. H. 63 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MEN, DON’T WORRY
After you have tried all other remedies for NERVOUS-
NESS, DEBILITY, etc., as thousandshave done before we
CURED them. Let us treat you, FREE of CHARGE,
for ONE MONTH, with our NEW CONCENTRATED
BOTANIC EXTRACTS, and the BENEFICIAL RESULTS
will surprise you.
Address: Botanic Institute, Victoria
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
nraxw 1
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
(JEIW’S
I ."'OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
JL Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals. Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,, hlush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos'iveness, Blotches on the Slu:n, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. lHli JllKbl DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will, be acknowledged to be WOK* H A
GUIhTBA A BOX.” , mu
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health, they
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act. like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion : bringing back the keen edge of appetite, an
arousing with the Rosebud ou' Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. I™ 3 ® o
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Bee>‘havis Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in
the world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
IHOMAS BEECEAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENELANB.
Sold I'ivcry where, in Boxes, is £tn<l —s 9d esidi*
BIG GAME CARTRIDGES
RE furnished in all calibres. In hunting
big game few shots comparatively are
to be had and each must count. It is
the hunter’s ideal to “drop the deer in its tracks.”
.38-40 W. C. F. and .44-40 W. C. F. are popular.
They are hard-hitting, your game does not run
miles to die a lingering death if your aim is
true. Demand U.M.C. of your dealer.
THE UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE CO.
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
iagrgSj
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
BUSHMAN and BUCCANEER, Prh £,£. ld
A CARD.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Eim.,
L.R.C.P.E., L.R.C.S.E., L.F.P.S.Q.,
Grierson Bursar and Medallist, University of Edinburgh ; formerly Member of the
Edinburgh ; Late Assistant Demonstrator in Practical Zoology, University of Edinburgh .
Council of the University of Edinburgh, etc., etc. Formerly Medical Superintendent Viating t
four of Australasia’s leading Hospitals, may be consulted personally or by letter, FREE, at Ins consulting zooi ,
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY,
daily, from 10 to 2, and from 7to 9pun. (Sundays, 12 to 1.) He makes no charge for a friendly chat or confi-
dential talk. Being a Consulting Physician in all Diseases of Men and IV omen, and a Specialist in all
Private, Nervous, Skin, & Genito-Urinary Complaints.
Patients entrusting themselves to his care have the advice of a Thoroughly Competent and Trustworthy
Physician, who treats all cases at moderate charges, and guarantees a cure in all cases undertaken by him.
' Send for Dr. Martin’s book, “Mind Over Matter,” posted FREE on receipt of six stamps. “ The Diseases of
Men and Women ” ready June 20th. Apply at once.
Consultation by Letter—FßEE.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “ Elmley House/' 151 Elizabeth-sW City.
(Please mention this paper when writing.)


SNDIA RUBBER
HOT WATER BIOS.
Are a necessity in every home.
Splendid in health or sickness.
Retaining the heat for many
hours. Made of best heavy
English Rubber.
LOWEST PRICES:
Perdiiae Rubber Oo.^J
(Late Perdriau and Go.),
MERCHANTS,
270 George Strest, Sydney.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon.-sfc., South Melbourne.
telephone No. 10hS *o^CATERER.
Mr. Skinner is a very extensive nml carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DA.JCINQ FLOORS
Of various sizes supplied.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating Centrifugal and Power Pump, Condensors, Feed Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
1
m
■?.:W)
/* /% i '>i t v /
m
tm -•
Wo Mother s\vo\M 'oe \\.
1 ox\ vec~
kghk
/!propress/ve d/etary adapted to t/?e promtp d/pestfre powers
Mirk Food IN?I
from 6/rt/> to 3 months
Milk Food N 92
from 3 to 6 /nonMs
Food N 93
fro/7? 6 /7?o/7t/7s i/pmrfs,
r ■
ghkghk
u
INGERSOLL-SERGEANT ROCK DRILLS.
The dumber of IngersolSSergeant Rock Drills at work on the Goldfields of
Charters Towers and Ravenswood is ... ••• ••• 162
All other makes ... ... •• ••• 23
In other words 83 per cent. of all the Drills in use on these fields are of the Ingersoll-Sergeant type.
Could there he a more conclusive argument as to which is the best Drill on the market ?
Ingersol l Rook Drills hold the record throughout the world. They have met and defeated In fair
competition every drill brought against them s and have never failed to maintain their reputation for
doing the greatest amount of work at the least expense.
PRICES and PARTICULARS on application to
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, NJ.W.
Macniven & Cameron’s Pens
“ They come as a boon and a blessing to men.
She Pickwick, the Owl, and the Waverley Pen."
ghk
THE WAVERLEV PEN.
Bold by all Stationers throughout the World.
EVERY PEN made by Macniven & Cameron, Ltd., Is
separately examined by experienced hands,
and any found defective are discarded.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. ~W3
MACNIVEN & CAMERON, LTD.,
EDINBURGH and BIRMINGHAM
A NOVEL PRESENT.^
gh
ON receipt of P. 0.0. or M.O. for 5/- we will forward to
any address in Australia one of our Handsome
Bet. Gold-filled Round Wire Brooches, with
either Bell, Heart, Anchor or Cross Pendant, guaranteed
the same quality as brooch ; and without pendant, S/6.
In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire, 8/6 ; without pendant. 6/6.
Illustrated Catalogues sent Free. All letters carefully
addressed to R. SIMS, Gold Wire King, Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
A GOLD OR SILVER WATCH FREE.
SEND NO MONEY.
kghk
We hereby undertake to give one
of our famous (fold or Silver
Watches (Lady’s or Gentlemari’sj
to every Man. Woman, or Child
who scuds us the correct reading
of the following Puzzle. .
1)"T ivr*s T««S C , ***E |
The only condition is that, if
your answer is correct, you pur-
chase one of our SOLID STEE-
LING SILVEII CHAINS, or one
of our Gold-filled Warranted
Chains, to wear with the Watch.
Simply forward your answer
and enclbse stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform
you if you have won the Witch.
We are making this offer solely
with the object of introducing
and advertising our goods.
Forward your letter to our address..
cm OSHITHfC COLONLU CO., Pitt St.
Sjdaey.
Sol#
BY ALL
First-Glass
Storbi
in Australasia.
No. 8160 .
X Blade.
Cocoa Handle =
Buffalo Handle
1/6
116
Handle
gh
LOCKWOOD BROS., Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
«w »•
Size; 5 V' x x 5 .
kgh
-»|«s 40J
3A«M PUB
SNOW DUPLEX PUMPS
(al! sizes
for ail
purposes)
Boilers, Engines, Lathes, Borges, Drilling and Punching Machines, Pulleys, Shafting, Hangers, Bearings,
Collars, etc. Engineers’ Tools and Fittings, Valves, Cocks, Gauges, etc. Cast, Tool and Mining Steel, Mire
Ropes and all Requisites for Contractors, Engineers Saw Mills, and Mining Proprietors.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO., Ltd.
97 CLAREKTCB STREET, SYDNEY.
= THE WINNING DOUBLE. ■=
Card Concentrator and Sperry Sumer.
Most line Managers know the merits of the FORMER, and those who do not have only to let
us hear *from them , They 4 have long been waiting for a Machine to treat SLIME MINERAL
successfully, and we have been as Bong looking for one. NOW we have it and want to tell them
all about this Vanning Buddie . Write for Particulars to
N. GUTHFMDGE, Ltd., 71 Clarence Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
