

IDEW-A-IVS ¥HISKT
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
R. Cr. WATKINS & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers~"and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
'•-V
.
3E3C 035*-A. HT.
*if«
Oadliys Orient (jotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent
Sole Agents for
McLAREN’S COMPOUND
m
'
& W. C. FOOTE, WHAKAPARA, N.Z., writing rea “MCLAREN” 8 H P. Nom. Compound Engine, say : “At present we are haulinj
miles rising 1 over a country range of hiSls, up and down grades ail the way* We average over five trips; sometimes we
twenty-four hours. Three waggons each trip, with a load of 7000 ft.”
logs a distance of four
o six-and-a-half trips In
sdf
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTONS
nmmmn
sdf
CHUBB’S
SAFES
Resist
FIRE.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Paper Merchants & Wholesale Stationers,
(Temporary Offices) 439 Kent Street, Sydney, 6th April, 1906.
The Manager, Chubb’s Australian Co., Ltd., 164 Clarence Street.
Dear Sirs,—lt affords us much pleasure to advise that the two strong 1 room
doors which were installed by you some years ago at our Clarence-street ware-
house have come through the fire of last Saturday to all intents and purposes
uninjured, and, as far as fire damage is concerned, the contents of the strong
rooms are intact. With compliments, we remain,
Yours faithfully, EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., LIMITED,
(Signed) William P. Dunlop.
THE HOYAL
E DISWAN LAMP.
I
Economy in Current.
Equality op Lira*,
THE
EDISON & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depots
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
tzi
U
df
“TO THY SPEED ADD WlNGS. "—Milton.
CONTINENTAL TYKES
Arc the Wings that
give Speed to the
Twentieth Century
Motor or Cycle•
Unsurpassed for Durability d Comfort
SYDNEY
225 Clarence St.
df
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
•rV.
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
TEA!
ASK
FOR
0^
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY.
I3XT BOTTLE
23
OIL;
ENGINES
No Other in
the World .
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
lo Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
m m
USE
DELMO BROS.
6t
:
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 COPPIN ST.,
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
-
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1370.]
[Thursday, May 17, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW G©° Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Ebbard, Mental Depression : Its Causes, &c., 3s, p. 4d.
The Green Room Book, 1906. A Who’s Who of the
Stage, 6s, postage 6d.
Norris, Modern Strand Road Wagons, 9s, post Bd.
Macfarlane, Iron and Steel Manufacture, 4s, post 6d.
Lamingbon, Lord, Days of the Dandies, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Innes. Ten Tudor Statesmen, 7s 6d, post Bd.
Quinton Science and the Manufacturer, 2s (id, post 4d
Besant, W., Mediaeval London, colored ilius. “ Black’s
Beautiful Books,” 365, post Is 3d
Moncrieff.oHigldands and Islands of Scotland, in color,
Abbott, Through India with the Prince 15s nnst Rd
Austin, Alfred, The Door of Humilily % 6d '
John’s Notable Australians, rf , ,
WHO THEY ARE AND WHAT THEY DO. LlOtll 6S, pOSt 4(l*
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET SYDN-Y
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great • •
ANT/SEPT/C
REMEDY
For the Odre of
Bronchitis !
and influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
df
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says: —
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
MT HUDSON’S EUtVIENTHOL JUJUBES^W
(Kbgistbred). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Depot : 6& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W„ London.
THE RED PAGE.
IN THE ROARING FIFTIES
EDWARD DYSON’S romance of Aus-
tralian life In the Boaring Fifties
gives new occasion to praise his talent
and craftsmanship. The story is
pitched in the golden heyday of Victoria ;
when came ‘ ‘ the four corners of the world in
arms ” to Port Phillip, and life’s tide rose in
a flood of splendid virility.
To lead his story Dyson has had a fine idea.
He has taken a sullen English boor—the butt
of his village, yet with the radical virtue of
his English stock—and thrown him to the
whirlpool of men fighting in the freedom of
the Bush. Friendship cheers him, strife
mellows him, the Bush inspires him; shackles
of birth and breeding loosen from his limbs ;
and in the arms of a lusty daughter of Aus-
tralia he is disenthralled.
Scene and time give amole material to
picture the moulding of a man. Dyson
sketches the voyage, the landing, and the
journey to the goldfields : then he has all
the rich character of the epoch at command,
and he displays it well. Turbulent life on
the fields, with its incidents of struggle and
success ; the denizens of the fields—-diggers,
troopers, Chinese, and a racy embodiment
of Mother Shanty ; —here Dyson stands on
intimate ground. The hero, self-educated in
books and fists, plods and fights till enlisted
under Lalor at Eureka. Dyson has not given
a final account of the scramble at the stockade
—so insignificant, so momentous ; for he
realises people better than scenes, and wants
a lift of emotion in the clean cleverness of
his style—too formal for the highest flights.
Yet he is graphic as far as he goes.
Then the nominal hero’s convict brother
fills the space of mending a wound, and we
acknowledge a hero indeed. The chapters
of the convict’s adventures at Boobyalla
station, his arrest and escape, are chapters
that breathe enchantment: the rest of the
book is stiff' by comparison.
It is on account of this doubling of heroes
and heroines that Dyson comes short of his
proper success. A pair goes well ; a unicorn
team may go better ; but four-in-hand are
hard to manage in fiction. The convict
needs a book to himself : Dyson is em-
barrassed with his material. Theory and
practice fight, and the close is a novelist’s
disaster. Yet the book is well worth read-
ing for the pictures and character and those
dramatic chapters : Macdougal and his
revenge are not to be forgotten.
J*
For Australians and nature-lovers there
are charming glimpses :
He began to feel a friendship for the towering
gums in their flaunting independence ; their proud
individuality pleased him. To his mind they
reflected the spirit of the people—it must be the
spirit of the land. Nowhere in their feathery
elegance did he find a law of conformity ; each
tree was a law to itself, tall and strong and
slender, youthful and buoyant, opening fond arms
to the blue sky.
A wattle gully in full blaze, a stream of golden
bloom sweeping along the course of a little moun-
tain creek as far as the eye could see, each tree a
huge bouquet, the whole mass foaming in the
gentle breeze, a rich feast of colour, lit up by a
glowing noonday sun, and bordered by the sub-
dued green of the mountain gums.
Elsewhere Dyson’s style lacks speed where
it is needed : he frames his sentences with a
caudal clause that tucks in awkwardly.
There is stilted writing that delays the
action and injures one’s impression of
reality :
Suffused with a melancholy tenderness, he told
himself he had never forgotten her; her image
had lived in his heart as in a shrine, screened,
perhaps, but only for sanctity’s sake...
Men upon whose every feature and limb were
stamped the repulsive brands of the lag...
These are faults easily mended, and they are
far outweighed by merits.
4
The useful Magazine of Commerce (April) prints
a lucid article on processes for reproducing illus-
trations.
Home and Camp, by William Dean, is a little
book of verses published by Louisa Lawson,
Sydney. The subjects are a bush township's
topics, discussed in honest prose neatly rhymed
and measured.
The Threshing Floor, by T. 9. Fletcher (Lond.,
Unwin ; 2s. 6 d.), is set apart from the mass of
novels rather by subject than by Style, though the
style is good. The scene is in North England ;
the characters belong to a remarkable family of
“ hard drinkers, hard livers, hard fighters,” im-
pressively portrayed ; and from the incidents of
the ruin of this family springs the story. In
several points the book might be compared with
Hardy’s I'ess. The first and realistic half is espe-
cially interesting : in'the second half the writer’s
conscifentious theory is less effective.
Steele Rudd's Magazine for May has an article
upon Popular Phraseology—signed “ As Now”—
thoughtful, quaint, and suggestive. The writer
compares English with Gaelic, lauding the latter’s
idiom. And he says : " The habit of calling out
to passers-by the single word ‘Hullo*’ in a kindly, ■
friendly spirit of comradeship, and expecting
nothing back but a friendly word of acknowledg-
ment. is a most pleasing and highly characteristic
trait in Australian children.”
VERSIONS OF HEINE
AN enlarged edition of the verses and
translations of Monica Turnbull is
published by John Murray (Lond. ;
t s s -)■ The book’s title is A Short
Day s Work: the author died five years ago,
aged 22, from injuries received through the
breaking of a lighted lamp which fell at the
feet of a younger sister. Rushing to render
assistance, she became herself enveloped in
flames, and both girls lost their lives. The
pathetic accident ended bright literary
hopes.
Miss Turnbull’s original work remains
little more than an unfulfilled promise. She
could write thus before she was thirteen
years old :
Love asks no questions, heeds no bitter words.
Love shineth bright and sharp as warriors’ swords
killeth not;'tis Love that raiseth up.
1 is Love will drink even the bitterest cup,
And smile and dwell on every drop of sweet.
T is Love will run a race with willing feet,
Yet patient wait if Heaven thinks it meet.
In silence, Love will work for many years.
Love weeps to buy a tender thought with tears.
Love liveth on a single glance from eyes
A long while closed—the bright sun in the skies
Gives far less light than Love—Love never dies.
Trite ideas ; yet in their combination there
is a certain freshness and a vigour. These
qualities remain, with deeper emotion, in
the quick and vivid impressions of later
work ;
Oh, beyond Heaven and Song,
Could there be waiting the best!
Past Immortality, sle.ep,
After Eternity, rest.
She could see so well and feel so keenly, her
words came so aptly to meet her vision, that
it is no wonder her work has been praised
rather for what it might have been.
A*
The part that will remain longest is a set
of versions of Heine. Miss Turnbull had a rare
power to paraphrase, and imitate, and some-
times to match that rare poet. She approaches
his melody and cadence, and can even trans-
fuse his emotion. To do this she omits or
varies : a grave defect. Yet what she renders,
she renders exceptionally well, with a femi-
nine adaptation that follows but loosely the
phrase and line, yet; may yield almost an
exact impress of feeling. Compare two
stanzas of her virtue : Lyrical Intermezzo 55.
Wenn Zwei von einander scheiden
So geben sie sich die Hand’,
Und fangen an zu weinen,
Und seufzen obne End’.
Wir haben nicht geweinet,
Wir seufzten nicht “ Weh ! ” und “ Ach ! ”
Die Thranen und die Seufzer,
Die kamen hintennach.
First Bowring ;
When two fond lovers are parted,
They give each other the hand,
To weep and to sigh beginning,
And losing all self-command.
But not one single tear wept we.
No Ah ! or Alas ! did we sigh ;
Our tears and our sighs both together
Too surely came by-and-by.
Dullard. And Theodore Martin :
When it comes to lovers’ parting
Each other’s hands they press,
And then they fall a-weeping,
And sigh sighs numberless.
We wept not, thou and I, love,
Nor “Oh !” nor “Ah ! ” sighed we !
The tears and sighs came after,
But alas ! they were to be.
Dolt. And Brooksbank :
When comes the hour of parting
The tears stream from the eyes ;
Then hands grasp one another
With endless sobs and sighs.
We two wept not at parting;
We made no sigh, no moan !
Our sighs and tears, my darling,
They came when all was done’.
Clumsy. And Monica Turnbull:
When twain depart forever,
Their hands will meet and hold ;
And then they fall a-weeping
With sighs and tears untold.
We wept not when we parted,
With shallow seeming eyes ;
Not then, not then, but later
I hey came, the tears and sighs.
J*
Imperfect, yet easily best of the batch.
That artlessness was her gift as well as
Heine’s ; arid she does reproduce him in
English, though this is not her most success-
ful version. And the more it is looked at,
the more likeable it seems : even the later
loses distaste (it cannot be after , because of
the false rhyme with parted, and for other
reasons). If.in doubt, try yourself :
When two come to parting
ri Eaeh clasps a fond hand :
Their tears are set flowing,
They sigh without end.
But we did not weep, or
A “ Woe’s me ! ” exclaim— *
The tears and the sighing,
I was since that they came.
Too light and flippant. More file :
When a couple have met for parting
They give each other their hands,
And soon begin a-weeping
And sighing that never ends.
But we did not fall to weeping
rni^ r ’ ” 4l Alas ! ” exclaim—
-1“e tears an d endless sighing,
T was afterward they came".
This bemuses : change the topic.
DAN'S SPA CHE ON THE EARTHQUAKE
[BY SPSCIAL FABLR.]
ME frinds an’ countrymen, —Listen
to me ! Niver in the whole carse
av me existence in this grand sub-
luniary sphair, niver in the woildest an’ most
unparalalarralered dhrames av me imagina-
tion, niver in me poobhlic carayr, have Oi
iver sayn, have Oi iver heard, has it iver
intered into the heart av me for wan
moment to concaive, that such a tirrible,
such a devastatering, such an unroighteous
calamity, should stroike innocence in its
beauty and youth in its bloom.
‘ ‘ Me frinds, —The tirrible tirror of it!
Whin Oi hit the bid roisin’ benathe me an’
the sailin’ roisin’ above me as Oi lay in the
arrums of Murpheeus—whin Oi sat up an’
says to meself, says Oi, ‘Good God,’ Oi
says, ‘ fwhat’s this ? ’ —whin Oi wint to me
windy an’ saw the moighty buildings fahl-
ing down with that tirrible crash, an’ the
ground fahling up to mate them—Oi says to
meself, ‘ Shure, ’ Oi says, ‘ it’s the Day of
Judgment at last,’ an’ Oi remimbered me
sins that minit. But ye know what it was
—it was the Earthquake, yis ! —the greatest
an’ most tirrible Earthquake iver known in
the histrry av the whole wurruld ; an’ thanks
be ! here Oi am to till the tale.
“ Me frinds and fellow electors, —Had Oi
the iloquence av Demmystheens, the tragic
jaynius av Harristoephaynes, and the glorious
narraytive powers av the great Grake his-
torian Eurypieds, niver could Oi hope to
do justice to the scane Oi saw befure me !
Tirrible ! tirrible ! Min dyin’, women cryin’,
and harses shyin’ in ivery diriction ! Me
frinds, Oi niver closed me oies wan wink for
three days an’ noights for thinkin’ av it, ex-
cipt whin Oi was aslape from shayr exhars-
tion.
“Mr. Spaker an’ honourable gintlemin,—
Oi wint out, an’ what a mahn can do Oi
did in hilpin’ to save loife an’ property.
Whin the foire came, Oi was there ! Whin
the wather came, Oi was there ! Whin the
polis came, Oi was there ! ‘ Lit me hilp ! ’
says Oi, an’ iverybody that knows me
knows will that Oi did hilp wid the lasht bit
av stringth in these arrums. What wid the
tirror an’ the distriss an’ the anguish av
moind, it was tirrible, tirrible ! Oi niver
hoped to say anything so tirrible in ahll me
loife. The swate ladies, the jewels av their
country, slapin’ in the parrk be the soide av
dliirty Choineymin in all their beauty and in-
nocence and vartue, it intered into me sowl ;
an’ if Oi live to the age av Methusely the
king av the Jews that ye Jade about, niver
will Oi forgit that tirrible toime.
“Me frinds, —Glad Oi am to say that Oi
uphild the honour av me dear country an’
resaved the thanks av the Mare for me
exartions, an’ may Oi niver live to see
another earthquake till Oi doi.”
♦
Curious things have happened to a Lond.
secondhand bookseller. Accidentally a copy of
Secret History of the Court of England , by Lady
Anne Hamilton (first edition) got into his six-
penny box. The book is chiefly a sensational
attack upon George IY, published in 1832. Pains
were taken to suppress it, with the natural result
of a crop of reprints. As much as 1000?. is said
to have been offered for the original edition,
which is valued for its rarity, though probably at
nothing like that sum. The bookseller offered
only 1 51. reward for return. But the announce-
ment of his blunder brought him hundreds of
letters offering to sell, for anything up to 100?.,
later editions of the book—one of them current at
a shilling. Many of the would-be vendors sent
their shilling books along and trustfully awaited a
cheque.
Similar errors are common enough in this
country. One often sees a book worth about 3d.
held as a great treasure because it is 100 years old
or thereabouts. As a matter of fact, very few
books published after 1600 are worth anything on
account of their age ; and in most cases one has to
go back to “ black letter ” before touching really
nigh prices. It is the first edition of a book
that bibliophiles usually value, especially if the
leaves are uncut and the covers intact and clean
as issued. Doubtless the collector’s demand im-
plies a satisfaction as well as a fashion ; but the
origin of the satisfaction is obscure. Is it
scion of the egoistic superstition that covets the
unsullied, the virginal, unsoiled by alien fingers ?
“ Authors and journalists would look better if
they slept more,” says The Lady: “they are
notoriously plain and pasty.” Yes ; and some of
them are notoriously scissors-and-pasty.
In reference to the scheme to weld Russian
refugees into an autonomous Jewish state under
British suzerainty, Zangwill collects in The Fort-
nightly opinions from Eng. men of letters. Hew-
lett wrote: “My reading of history constrains
me to point out that never since this world was
first put in order has a community been perma-
nently established by means of pamphlets or the
opinion of philosophers, to say nothing of literary
men.” Zangwill retorts that “ New Zealand and
South Australia were both established by the
pamphlets of the philosopher. Gibbon Wakefield,”
“ Established by ” ? The claim is too large. They
were established on Wakefield’s plan ; but the
establishment did not depend on his pamphlets,
would have proceeded without them. .
MEDICAL GRAPHOLOGY
It is Dr. Quintard, of Angers in France, who
instructs his medical brethren in the diagnostic
value of handwriting. “You’re a doctor,” says
he, “and you’re called to a patient you’ve never
seen before. He tells you his little yarn and
answers your little questions while you examine
him, and then you make up your mind—wrong,
for a ducat ! For, look you, this patient may be
a nervous kind of person who exaggerates her
troubles ; or, on the other hand, he may be a dull
person who troubles about nothing. She may
wallow in irrelevant detail; he may hide what he
ought to tell you. Would n’t you like an easy
way of testing veracities ?
You find it in handwriting. If it slopes slightly,
with the loops well above the line and a beautiful
array of flourishes, it’s certain you’re dealing
with an individual dowered with, an agreeable
imagination ; while a certain sobriety of script,
with letters loosely formed and sometimes un-
finished, indicates phlegm. Again, by a hand
almost undecipherable, with the o’s and a’s
hermetically sealed, you will recognise the dissim-
ulator. Free and hearty people leave their
vowels open. There’s the character of your
patient at a glance !
Jt
But graphology can do more for you. Suppose
a cure is only possible by regular, tedious treat-
ment : how are you going to know if the patient
follows the prescription ? Often enough people
follow only half—and grumble because they don’t
get well. Look at the hand-writing : a sample
signature will do. If you see a firm fist, with the
i’s dotted and the t’s regularly crossed, that man
has Will! Irregular letters, penned loosely, warn
you against caprices capable of delaying a cure :
and when you see curves clearly formed, careful
punctuation, and every letter doing its duty, be
sure that your client has a docile, methodical
disposition.
Best of all, but to be mentioned delicately, the
—ahem !—question of—er—remuneration. Just
scrutinise your client’s hand-writing before
sending in your bill. If he crams his words
together, leaving the scantiest margin on the paper,
and signs his name in a villainously complicated
tangle, you may conclude that he is stingy ; and,
in order to avoid trouble, it will prove worth while
to be accommodating and apply the minimum
tariff. If the writing is fine, clear, and dignified,
with well-shaped letters, then the patient has a
noble and generous mind, capable of appreciating
at its proper value a physician’s self-sacrificing
labour. If the convalescent writes a large, bold
hand, with plenty of space between his words—
few lines upon a page, and few words in each line
—then you have the man who does n’t count his
cash too closely. Meet him half-way with fees on
the highest scale ; bleed him well; and be grate-
ful to graphology.
EDGAR ALLAN POE.
Thus, you see, “ W.M.” betters the inventor :
Here is no sun, but dusk and endless shade ;
Here is no laughter, whispered speech alone :
Save when afar there sounds a ghostly moan
From some white figure flitting down a glade,
The half-seen vision of a phantom maid ;
Beyond, vast halls with trailing vines o’ergrown,
Where one sits brooding on an ivory throne,
In great, dull gems and kingly robes arrayed.
Once he who rules this realm of mystery
Ate the strange fruit of tragic fantasy :
Within the land of wraiths he entered soon,
And in the poppied cup Life's fever drowned :
Thenceforth he saw Earth’s shapes and shadows croivned
In alien lands with idols of the moon.
The penultimate wants improving.
Said an Eng. barrister to an Eng. judge the
other day : “ Your honour, the defendant has
not turned up!” Said the Eng. judge to the
Eng. barrister : “ Pray, do not use such slipshod
expressions! ” Said the Eng. barrister to the
Eng. judge : “I apologise, your honour, but this
is a high-pressure age; and since your honour’s
days at the bar, we have no longer time to indulge
in perfect English ! ”
Two more of Capt. Wynter’s stories, with a
becoming clerical twang :
Tom Duffield, a typical hunting-man and joint-master
of the Old Berkshire Hounds, was at a farmer’s house
one afternoon when his eyes fell on a picture hanging on
the wail opposite to him. “Hullo!” said he, “ what is
that picture about?” The farmer explained that it was
called “ The Martyrdom of Captain Cook,” who was rep-
resented on his back in a canoe with a swarm of savages
beating out his brains with clubs and tomahawks, while
in the middle distance a clerical-looking missionary, in' a
white tie and bands, was making tracks as fast as his legs
could carry him. The farmer asked Tom for his opinion
on this work of art. “ Well,” replied he, with his mouth
full, “ they seem to have chopped Captain Cook, but no
doubt they ’ll have a good thing with the reverend gentle-
man.”
Some of the old-fashioned clerics were certainly plain-
spoken even when addressing a superior. One well-
known incumbent in the diocese of Oxford was having a
visit from his bishop, who desired to see the parish
schools in which the boys were divided from the girls by
a wall or some strip of garden. Throwing open the door
of the boys’ school, waving his hand, and addressing the
bishop, the rector said, “ That’s the dog pack, m.v lord —
the bitches are on the other side.” This same divine,
when requested to say grace at a cricket dinner, de-
livered himself thus, “For what we are going to receive,
we shall each pay three and sixpence.”
C. C. Fitzgerald, arguing for an Australian
navy in The National Review, adds that “Aus-
tralia offers the curious spectacle of a poor country
where very high rates of wages prevail.” The
fact is, of course, that, judged by the yearly pro-
duction of wealth in proportion to population,
Australia is possibly richest of all countries.
Anybody interested in the drama may read in
April Contemporary an article by Phillip Littell
that is both meat and sauce. L. underlines other
things incidentally, neatly : “We read a bit of
Buskin, and say it’s very like a cloud ; or a bit of
Mr. Frank Bullen, and say it’s very like a
whale...”
A.G.S.


df
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINGHGOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Woo! and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS for Sporting Material.
MICK
SIMMONS
df
THE GLOBE
D.B. B.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S. W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
4-Os
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D. 8.8.1.
Guo
MICK SIMMONS
dsf
LESTON, DALY CO.'3 D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.B.W., 2s I'd ;
Inter-State, 5s 2d . , „ ~
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Gross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross l olt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s £d
W.S. VV ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
IS
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Sien en’a
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SOWS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choice, Rebounding’ Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2£in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
&
K*
“The Reliable,”
£0 12s 6c3
Mick Simmons
d
HOLLIS St SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.B.B.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
finest-duality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
£12 12s
The Celebrated
19
“MAINE
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting: Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jib.
SheuJina P/f/e Aparr.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER.
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
,
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2flb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2|lb.
Postage: N.S.YV., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3Jlb. Postage—
N.S.W., Is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d
13s 6d
18s Od
16s Od
aSa
Stevens’
Little
Kragr.
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peep
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 36in.,
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S. W.; 2s 8d Inter-State).
21s
Illustrated Fishing: Tackie, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
Folding Orchard C mi,
4iogr.
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410g. side lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length over all 3Sjin,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9 N.S. W. ;
3/2 Interstate.
35s
■•%' •yij'Wi'i. >:"
.
We can now
supply these
guns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
d
The “Bullscye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3§lb.
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
d
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Mode), 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long, or IS long- Rifle Cartridges), weight sJlb. ..
1897 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight 5111>. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d)
£3
ď
ivxMUNriTioivr.
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
„ 22 Short
~ 22 Long’
„ 22 Long Rifle
it 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 6d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
LAWN TENNIS.
DFftR-Y
n ANfcICAO
5b
3/6
Standard
7/3
Asr^T
2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d Inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS. ,
Renshaw .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. ,
doz.
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov’. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
■rAyres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’Handicap .. Isg
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
• ' &
■' v
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is Sd inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Soz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Soz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s Cd set
MICK SIMMONS
■A. w
yMsMiilMllli
•Bh Y. w-'< '. ::/■:
1 Ifimtl! I
The “ARMY,” 18s 6d
PUNCHING BALLS
(Postage on ordinary ball, 9d. N.S.W., Is 2d Interstate).
Complete. . Each.
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, soft tan leather, cover, 1 piece top, and welted
seams. These balls are very light, suitable for fast work... ,7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s
ARMY,” Regulation Style, finest selected calf-skin, double stitched, welted
seams, reinforced throughout, very fast 16s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s
“ ARMY,” Pear Shape, else similar to above 27s 6d, 35s
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, made from heavy selected cow-hide, very strong,
suitable for club use.. ..‘i 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, ISs®d, 20s, 25s
“ EXPERT,” Medium Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for
ceiling attachment, made with line grain leather, 1 piece top,
reinforced 8s 6d, 14s, 21s
“ EXPERT,” Regulation Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment, made with solid cow hide 16s 6d, 20s, 21s
THE
ASGOT
7 7^.
ft*
ASCOT, No. 1, Pol. Wood Box, 4 horses, 5s ; post 9d N.S.W., Is 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 2, Pol. Wood Box, 6 horses, 7s 9d ; post Is N.S.W., Is Sd Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 3, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, 11s ; post IsN.S.W., IsSd Inter-State
ASCOT, No. 4, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, larger, 13s 6d ; post Is 3d N.S.W.,
2s 2d Inter-State. . -
ASCOT, No. 5, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, lined tray, 18s 6d; post Is 9d
N.S.W., 3s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 8 horses, sup., 27s 6d ; post 2s N.S.W.
Mick Simmons
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
J


CONVINCING PROOF
of the Genuineness of the Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute. What Journals of High Reputation say.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE triumphal tour of the Country Centres of Population in the State of Victoria,
Educational,. Interesting, ar\d Powerfully Instructive Lectures delivered by the Medical diagnostician to the Institute, and his great services to suffering humanity,
borne Ilashligh Photographs taken en route. Theatres, Lecture Halls, and Public Assembly Booms crowded to the Doors, showing the great value of The
Freeman <b Wallace Lectures, and their Moral Affinity of the Public Good.
■
m
- •'.
-
wm
ates
..
irww
*{'<&& ''
:: ‘
ml*.*?*
Wk
■
'QS
&
ass
m i
Lecture to Ladies only, delivered by the Medical Diagnostician of The Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical Institute,
Photo, by Richards Co Sydney and Melbourne, at Her Majesty's Theatre, Ballarat (Vic.).
COLAC and WARRNAMBOOL
NEWSPAPERS SAY.
We give here a few brief extracts from Colac
and Warrnambool journals, commenting upon
the delightfully descriptive discourses given by
our Diagnostician :
COLAC.
COLAC “HERALD.”—The Colac Herald com-
ments upon the lecture to “ Ladies Only,” in the
Victoria Hall. The journal says :
“ The lecture was well delivered. The ladies
no doubt appreciated the masterly manner in
which the lecturer handled his subject and the
important knowledge he imparted to them.”
COLAC “ REFORMER.”—This journal eulogis-
tically remarks upon the Diagnostician’s abilities
as a lecturer in its comments upon his lecture to
“Men Only”:
“ In a discourse upon ‘ The Disobedience of
Nature’s Laws,’ the lecturer convinced his
hearers that he knew every' point about which
he was speaking. Many stated it was the best
effort bearing upon such a subject they' had
ever heard.”
WARRNAMBOOL.
WARRNAMBOOL “ STANDARD.”—This journal
announced that on Wednesday afternoon and
evening a lecturer, representing The Freeman
and Wallace Medical Institute, would lecture at
the Town Hall. In the afternoon the lecture
would be For Ladies Only, and the subject,
“ Suffering Woman and Her Heroic Fortitude
to Endure.” The evening lecture would be for
“ Men Only,” the subject being “ Our Disobedi-
ence of Nature’s Laws.” It further added :
“ Judgingby the reports, the speaker must be
a capable lecturer. The Geelong Times writes :
‘ Yesterday' afternoon, at His Majesty’s Theatre,
a lecturer, representing the Freeman and
Wallace Institute, of Melbourne & Sydney, de-
livered a lecture to ladies, and in the evening to
men only'. On both occasions the theatre was
filled. The speaker took up the diseases of both
men and women from the cradle to the grave,
and handled his matter in a manner that
convinced all present he was master of the
subject. These lectures are intended to be of
an educational character, pointing out how'
men should live, and what they should do to
preserve perfect health. It was of little use to
point out the advantages of the Freeman and
Wallace Institutions. They had been estab-
lished in Sydney for 25 years. ‘ The most pro-
gressive ’ is their watchword, and upon those
lines they have created the name they enjoy
throughout Australasia.”
BALLARAT and BENDIGO
JOURNALS STATE.
BALLARAT.
BALLARAT “COURIER,” a journal of high
reputation, comments at some length upon the
general usefulness of the lectures given in Her
Majesty’s Theatre, for “Women Only," as
follows :
“ The unique appearance of a theatre crowded
to the door by the fair sex was presented last
night, when an address was delivered, ‘ Suffer-
ing Woman and Her Fortitude to Endure.’
The speaker is a perfect master of his subject,
and his lecture was listened to with rapt atten-
tion throughout.”
Again, the same journal says :
“In Her Majesty’s Theatre last night the
speaker, in his lecture to ‘ Men Only,’ entitled
‘ Our Disobedience to Nature’s Laws,’ ad-
dressed an appreciative audience, the theatre
being crowded in every part.”
The same journal, commenting upon the litera-
ture of the Freeman and Wallace Institute,
remarks:
“ ‘ Clinical Experiences,' a book issued by
the Specialists of the Institute, is calculated to
be the means of bringing back hundreds of
human wrecks to health and happiness.”
EVENING “ ECHO,” Ballarat, says :
“The high reputation which The Freeman
and Wallace Institute enjoys justifies the pub-
lication of their medical work, ‘ Clinical Ex-
periences,’ 570 pages, 150 Medical Plates."
Again, the Echo comments :
“The Health lectures delivered by the
diagnostician to the Institute are greatly in-
structive, and have drawn crowded houses.”
BENDIGO.
BENDIGO “INDEPENDENT”:—
“ Last evening the Masonic Hall was packed
to overflowing, when the diagnostician of The
Freeman and Wallace Institute, delivered his
lectures to ‘ Ladies Only.’ The lecturer ex-
plained that the lectures were given in the
interests of public morality. He traced the
life of a woman from the cradle to the grave.
The lecture was an interesting one, and was
listened to with great attention.”
BENDIGO “INDEPENDENT”—
“ The diagnostician delivered his lecture to
‘ Men Only,’ ‘ Our Disobedience to Nature’s
Laws,’ last evening in the Masonic Hall. He
spoke at length upon the evils affecting the
human system. He pointed out that The
Freeman and Wallace Institute had at its
disposal the finest Specialists practising in the
Commonwealth.”
„<%■-'
-<s&> :
■ V/ ■ , W J
A
?/&,■
m
m : .
If
*msk
K
r^a^ssi
■
mmmmmM.
X^'
*=*
#\j§* ~;'-■ ;y%?v^
mm#*
’%>
'<»,»•-
Wv px+x*
*s>v; ,■-«'?«
P"?
V
I/x
S&
Lecture to Gentlemen only , delivered by the Medical Diagnostician of The Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical Institute,
Sydney and Melbourne, at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Ballarat (Vic.).
Photo, by Richards &• Co.
||f)TC I I * n V man ma y> if he so desires, through
**U It ■ ■ private reasons of his own, consult the
Specialists by addressing privately The Freeman and
Wallace Medical Institute, “THE SECRETARY,” 225 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney. In some instances, a man may not be
able to call personally, and may prefer to write upon
matters seriously concerning himself. All such letters are
promptly replied to by the Physisian-in-Chief, Dr. RICHARD
WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., who is
qualified and registered by the Medical Boards of Australia,
England, and America. The Specialist’s great medical
work, “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” a book essentially for
Men, 700 pages, 31 chapters, 150 medical plates, sent post-
paid on receipt of ONE SHILLINC IN STAMPS.
me FREEMAN and WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL and SURGICAL INSTITUTE,
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney, and at Melbourne
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director of Institute.
RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., Phys;cian-in-Chief.
IMPORTANT I —Our dispute with the Federal Postal
authorities has been amicably settled. Patients may, there-
fore, direct their letters to the above address as formerly.


Don’t neglect your cough. Stop
at once and driie away all thought of
consumption. i>egin as early as pos-j
sible—the sooner the better—to take
'Cherrii &eeteral
the most effective remedy for coughs
and colds of every kind and in every
stage.
One of the most annoying coughs
is a throat cough, where you have
that constant tick-
ling in your throat.
It comes on worse
at night, keeps you
awake, and makes
you have that
smothered feeling
in the chest. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
quiets the cough,
makes breathing
easy, and heals the
d
lungs. There is no other remedy so
surely to be relied on.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
P«cars:3 byDr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
The first
PcWPn/lfl / for the preservation of the
IvOOOil Licit teeth Js to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. 6ALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
BABY GIRL'S
AWFUL HUMOUR
Would Scab Over, Break Open, and Be
Raw —Intense Suffering for Two
Years Doctors and Medicines
Failed to Help Her.
CURED BY CUTICURA
WHEN ALL ELSE FAILED
Writing under date of August 15, 1904,
Mrs. H. C. Walker, of 5 Tremont Street,
Woodfords, Me., says: “ My sister had a
terrible humour on her shoulder when
she was eighteen months old, causing
intense suffering for two years. We had
several doctors, and tried everything, but
in spite of all we did it kept spreading.
One day it would scab over and then
crack open and a watery matter ooze from
it and the scabs would all fall off. It
would be raw for a time, then scab over
again. Some one recommended Cuticura,
and we immediately procured a box of
Cuticura Ointment, and a cake of Cuticura
Soap. She was much better after the first
bath with warm water and soap, and an
application of the Ointment. Before it
was half gone we saw a marked change
for the better, and she was entirely cured,
without a scar being left, by the one box
of Ointment and one cake of Soap. Her
skin is now entirely clear, and she has
not had a sign of trouble since.”
100,000 MOTHERS
Daily Tell Other Mothers
That Cuticura Soap is the best baby soap
in the. world for cleansing and purifying
the skin, and that Cuticura Ointment is
of priceless value for soothing and heal-
ing torturing, disfiguring eruptions, itch-
ings, and chafings. A single application
of Cuticura Ointment, preceded by a warm
bath with Cuticura Soap, gives instant re-
lief, and refreshing sleep for skin-tortured
babies, and rest for tired, fretted mothers.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Fills, are sold throughout the
World. Depots: London, Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue de
la Paix; Australia, R. Tewpe & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug Si
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props.
8S“ Mailed tree, “ How to Cure Baby Humours.'
o
&
(gy\
rm
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
80AMV»*GT0N*$
IRISH MOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
„ ' I.IIIIIIOTmM—■
C.BRANDAUER & Ce.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Ps"i*e BUBecfaßsj^
s
Works: BirmingririaiTi, &,Er»g:Bas««l<
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
TIE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE BUYS THE SOAP.
LET IT BE
WRIGHT’S COAL TAR SOAP
For it has THREE UNRIVALLED MERITS:
It is delightful in use. It is absolutely pure.
It protects from all infection.
6d. per Tablet. “Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
“ J.Gr.” : I enjoyed the hospitality of an
outback boundary rider for one night during the
drought. Water had given out, and he was using
water-melon in its place. I had tea made with
melon, damper worked up with melon, and corned
beef boiled in melon. The flavor was curious, but
I enjoyed the meal immensely.
The cult of the cow is growing in Maori-
land, and newspapers are beginning to publish
the names of the “best and smartest milkers.”
This adds a new terror to the life of the unfor-
tunate kid who is already roused at 4 a. m. to pursue
a muddy brute called Strawberry. In addition
to being driven out among the beasts when they
should be in bed building up muscle and brain,
the poor little mites will be also worried into
strenuous efforts to break the record. Like
England’s cotton industry, Maoriland’s dairy
farm prosperity is built on the hearts and misery
of its children. The slaves of the cult of the cow.
“ Turrgal ” writes :
Of all Australian ports, surely Derby (nor’-west W.A.)
is the least like a port. I went there for the
first time in a small cutter, and arrived at low
tide. The tide has a rise and fall of 40ft. The
scene is neither romantic nor inspiring. A gentle
slope of mud rises from the edge of the dirty
water to a remote dead-level line of mangroves, which
forms the horizon pro tem. This view is entirely unre-
lieved, stretching on either side as far as vision carries.
The jetty, with its long piles uncovered, looks very
gaunt and very lonely, and a stranger would wonder why
it was put there. It seems miles from the water. Not
another vessel of any sort is in sight. There are never
two simultaneous vessels at Derby. When the tide rises,
another remarkable view is presented ; you can then see,
over the tops of the mangroves, a hare salt plain about a
mile wide. A tramline runs straight across this from the
jetty, and loses itself in a shimmering mirage, where a
few white blobs indicate the houses. Strong tides and
alligators make sea bathing impossible. When you get |
into the town, you can easily imagine yourself 100 miles
inland. Enormous baobab trees give the place a tropical
appearance, which is further borne out by the fact that
Derby sleeps on its verandahs almost throughout the
year. There are no old salts knocking around, and no sea
talk. The people you meet are station hands, drovers,
etc., and the talk is all of sheep, cattle, blacks or kangaroos.
An outback teacher sends this as an
example of what the bush pedagogue has to put
up with :
It was this way. The boys were anxious to save their
country from the devastations of bunny, and (inciden-
tally) the price of skins was high. Bill “ wagged it ”
from school and went rabbitin’, and incidentally Bill’s
dog and Ted’s, Jack’s, Mick’s and Monty’s dogs went too.
Bill saw to that. By the time Ted, Jack, Mick and Mont3 r
had finished their studies and were also ready to go
rabbitin’, Bill, Bill’s dog, and Ted’s, Jack’s, Mick’s and
Monty’s dogs were right in the enemy’s camp, and Bill
had already two bobs’ worth of skins.
As already mentioned, Ted, Jack, Mick and Monty also
had designs on bunny’s hide. So they began to whistle.
They called out, “ Here, boy, here,” and whistled every
kind of whistle they knew. Later on, Bill returned.
When Bill saw how things stood, he hid in a hollow tree
until dusk.
The dogs went home. They wished they’d stayed with
Bill—Bill didn’t get his ribs almost kicked in for going
with that d d fellow.
Bill went to the school next day, but Ted and Mick were
missing :so were all the dogs. Ted and Mick hid in the
trees this time.
Monty went through the performance next day. The
day next Bill again, and Jack with him.
Each time all the dogs went. The dogs were getting
nearly worn out by this time, but were still determined
to keep going to the last.
The teacher got desperate, for the average attendance
was enough to get him the sack. In self-defence he
poisoned all the dogs.
Bill accused Jack, Ted, Mick, and Monty of conspiring
to kill his dog. Jack accused Bill, Ted, Mick and Monty.
Ted, Mick, and Monty made similar wholesale accusa-
tions. By the time the teacher arrived to stop the fight
Mick was the only one with any clothes on him worth
mentioning.
Their parents whacked Bill, Jack, Ted, Mick, and
Monty.
The parents of Bill, Jack, Ted, Mick, and Monty all
interviewed the teacher to know why he didn’t keep
better order.
There was almost a complete disappearance of the
school while the five already mentioned were away
acquiring fresh dogs, for they took Thomas and Samuel
with them, and that left hardly anybody at the school
except Sarah—Bella being laid up with measles.
They all acquired fresh dogs (lawfully or otherwise),
and the only visible result of all the trouble was that
Thomas and Samuel also acquired the rabbitin’ habit.
The average attendance is lower than ever now.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
s
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIK AND SON, Limited
HERBERT d. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Hautbaway*s <&
Peerless
Gloss
puts a permanent gloss on boots and
shoes—a shine that outshines all other
shines; a brightness that is not dulled
by a little damp, but remains as long as
actual dirt and mud can be warded off.
It is this great and special quality that
that makes it worthy of its name—
<£ Peerless ” ; that is, absolutely without
an equal. Famed for forty years, it is still
pre-eminently the best shoe polish that
has ever been invented. It adds to the
]ife of a shoe by its preservative qualities,
moreover, and is so easy t d use that it
is but the work of a moment to apply it
Sold by all Boot & Shoe Dealers & at all General Stores
SMPARTS A SPLENDID BRILLIANCE.
C. L. HAUTHA JVAV & SOWS, 346. Congress St..
Sesioti, Mass., U.S.A . •
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tribute.
My heart is full as it can hold,
Of Sydney’s quaint and gracious ways,
Of all her royal blue and gold
And laughing coves and nooks and bays,
Her crowded town, and winding streets,
Her headlands and her white-sailed fleets.
I close my eyes and see the square,
The flower men with their baskets bright
(Umbrella-shaded from th.e glare),
The vivid awnings, red and white,
The dazzling azure of the sky,
The trams that clang and rush and fly.
I see the busy miles of quay,
The hansoms standing all arow,
The harbor’s shining mystery,
The ferries passing to and fro.
I hear the blind man’s blatant voice
Rising above the city’s noise.
Oh Sydney, till again we meet
My eyes are hungry for your blue !
My heart is aching for your heat,
Your scent, and sound, and radiant hue.
To-night, across the leagues of sea
My soul goes out in love to thee !
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAR.
The Lovers.
One idle hour she sought to see
Whose image ’twas he cherished so
(All fondly certain whose ’twould he),
And found—a girl she did not know.
A trusty maiden’s modest face,
All innocence and purity.
“ What nun is this that fills my place ?
Alas, he loves me not!” sighed sho.
“Nay, daughter, let no foolish fears
Your trust in his devotion mar,”
Her mother said. “ Come, dry your tears ;
That is the girl he thinks you are.”
All fondly curious with love
(Half guessing what he would lay bare)
He rifled her heart’s treasure trove,
And found—a stranger’s image there.
“ This is the man she loves ! ” said he,
And, searching in the noble face,
Read high resolve and constancy.
“ This saint,” he cried, “ usurps my place ! ”
“ Nay, ’ spake his friend. “Your anger cool;
Gaze on that God-like face once more;
And then be satisfied, O fool;
That is the man she takes you for.”
S.A.
C. J. DENNIS.
Dusk and a Boat.
Out from the shallows ! The last flying gleam
Flames from the hill-saddle, crested and cleft.
Nosing the bubbling rush of the stream,
Thrust from the fern-shadows, facile and deft—
Sweep —
Low 1
While the bows lift and go
Up through the quarrelling current-race. Row,
Swinging and swift, from the wide trailing wake ;
Bend to it, shoulders—brown arms, to it—so !
Hearts, beat the rhyme of it out to the sun !
Shoulders, sway true to our chanson that soars
(Time, chant the time of it, viol-voiced One !)
Up through the rattle and knock of the oars.
Swing —
Slow 1
While the blades give and go
Down through the rose of the ultimate glow,
Sundered and shafted, that swims on the de§ps,
Flushing the ford and the reaches below.
Down through the darkness; an anchorite star
Blinks to his shade in the ripple behind ;
Out where the thicketed darknesses are
Mutters a vagrant irresolute wind . . .
Sweep —
Slow !
While the oars dip and throw.
Grey is the flush of a short hour ago,
Stridently whispering down in the hills,
Wanders the wraith of a song that ye know.
vio.
JAS. A. ALLEN.
The Lay of the Lost.
Outcasts under the social ban,
Damned and doomed by our fellow man.
Excommunicate, shunned and shamed,
Unclean ! Unclean ! by the crowd proclaimed.
We fall and our fellows will make no fuss—
A plain pine coffin will do for us.
Brothers, ere spirit its shell forsakes,
Drink we a toast —to the Lord’s mistakes.
Now and again we hear their hail—
Dealers in dogma with faith for sale;
The outcast’s soul they would save at cost
Of all—and it’s little—he has not lost.
But we are contented to take our chance,
Leaving the rest to circumstance.
What matters the doom or the shape it takes?
Another health —to the Lord’s mistakes.
Preaching—aye, pleading, they urge “repent!”
Mockery ! Never to us was sent
Message of mercy and promised peace ;
Ours is a sentence that shall not cease.
Can he repent who is hot with hate,
With a wasted wrath at a callous Fate,
With a broken spirit, a heart all aches?
Repent! Nay, drink to the Lord’s mistakes.
N.S.W.
W. A. PEAKE.


FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
For Men’s Winter Wear.
We have an admirable
. . . range of
OVERCOBTS
all in Good Materials, Well-Made, and
Newest Styles. They comprise :
CAPE-AND-SLEEVE OVERCOATS, in Tweed, lined throughout. Sizes 3to 8
22/6, 25/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 42/-, 45/- each.
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS, in Fox’s Pure-Wool Serges, in Brown, Black
and Pure-Indigo. Sizes 3to 7. 22/6 each.
CHESTER OVERCOATS, Rainproof Material, Yoke Shoulders, in Fawn and Grey
Sizes 38 to 44in. Breast. 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 42/-, 50/- each.
Carriage Paid to 5 per cent, of value.
For Smart Overcoats you can’t beat FINNEY’S.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
c
Sold by
All Jew jellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
; *S'
sPOr,
' s B a
oivc
V»s'
'®6
1892
*
s
ea
Estab-
-1750.
WINCHESTER
“REPEATER”
&
i? =T=--.-. -
SMOKELESS POWDER
C iOTGUN CARTRIDGES
Carefully inspect d shells, the best com-
binations of powder, shot and wadding,
loaded by machines which give invariable
results are responsible for the superiority of
Winchester “Repeater” Factory Loaded
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cartridges.
There is no guesswork in loading them.
Reliability, velocity, pattern and penetra-
tion are determined by scientific apparatus
and practical experiments. Do you shoot
them ? If not, why not ? They are
THE ONLY CARTRIDGES TO SHOOT
Wjt&'jfgM
m:
wv.
NOIMAIf
cMfcn
Sefedt
*s*
from au
Granp
•eras
etc- etc-
S^nortoobANl
DISC
UNIVERSAL RECORDS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras. lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL
INSTRUMENTS
The Colonial,
The New Standard.
JTiLI 81 RATED CATALOGUE EREE on application.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
m t
■
V ' ,
ft n
// n
i//;
* Hi
£
z
■r. 'S ::v
n;
• iW
W^gjferT
.!«.ils.Hiim h , •. wa
RIP yOUR HOME OF THIS PEST
By Using AVENARIUS.
d
ď
d
are unequalled for Smoothness, Purity
of Tone, and Durability.
Price 3/6 each.
They are made of the very best Black
Composition, and will fit all Disc Talking
Machines. We Exchange Old and Worn
Records. Write for Particulars and
Latest Lists to —
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. iGentt
Australian
Headquarters :
25 Ash StSydney, N.S. W.
r
THE.
GLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment,
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
fmi
p
8!
n
w.
V
r4KV
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 30.00-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line ; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 10 H.P.
Runabout. Touring: Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring Car. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, DETROIT, MICH.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY MOTOR GARAGE, 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
ď
HOTEL
HETROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
YOUR GREATEST ENEMY
is the White Ant—you know it—and yet you sit down and allow
the pest to eat the house from under you. Pull yourself together.
Send to your storekeeper for a tin of AVENARIUS, and make
your home secure against the ravages of the millions of
WHITE ANTS
which are working while you are sleeping. AVEISrARIUS is not
only an absolute preventive and cure for White Ants ; it is a Wood
Preserving Oil, an oil which penetrates into the pores of the
timber, making it tough and durable. A coat of
Avenarius
will prevent White Ants, and double the life of the timber.
AVENARIUS is the best wood preservative known.
To BE OBTAINED FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS, OR
E. RICH & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 27.—N0. 1370.
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 1906.
Price 60.
THE SQUABBLE OVER THE RIVERINA.
“ Who owns Riverin a?” —Melbourne Age.
“I do."— Big Landlord.
When the two microbes in the corner finish their scrap over the Riverina the real owner of the property will appear,


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Austral in /or the A nst rat in ns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiip, Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
bat to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for ‘‘copy.’’ Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 2000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed Bui no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood, that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateur# in ltlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and.
Ootch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson ife Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Breiver and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x l/rin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
77m
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 190 G.
THE “PRODUCER,” AND THE OTHER
PRODUCER.
The recent Sydney Agricultural Show gave the
Foreign-trade papers their usual opportunity to
make feeling remarks about “the producer,” and
Sydney Telegraph, in its excitement, put “The
Producer” at the head of its article in letters
nearly an inch high, and then it gave another big
heading to “Horses, Cattle, and Produce .”
“Produce,” in the vocabulary of the Foreign-
trade paper, means wheat and oats and potatoes
and hay and onions and vegetable-marrows, and
the man who digs up these things is the producer
and the backbone of the country. The man who
makes cloth and machinery is only the cunning,
underhanded and scheming manufacturer, and his
output isn’t produce at all. This attitude has
become so much a matter of course that it is with
something like a shock that one digs up some
plain, hard facts about the respective values of
the two producers. Leaving out all the spread-
eagleism concerning the backbone of the country ”
and so on, State Statistician Hall gives these
figures as regards N.S. W. for 1904:
Total value of all agricultural produce in
N.S. W. (this is the gross return, and out
of it has to come cost of machinery,
freight by cart, railway and steamer, seed,
in many cases rent, also repairs and im-
provements, leaving a mere remainder
for wages) . .. ■ ■ • • £5,413,710
Wages paid by manufacturing industries .. 5,012,758
In other words, the wages alone paid by N.S.IV.
manufacturers aie nearly equal to the whole value
of the State’s agricultural industries. And when
it is considered that only a part of the agricultural
output is available for wages—either the wages of
the farmer himself, of his sons, or of his hired
servants, saying nothing of his wife, who often
works as hard as any of her male relatives and
that the (possibly) £3,000,000 which the bucolic
industry produces net has to be divided among
nearly 80,000 people actually employed in agri-
culture, while the £5,000,000 and over which
manufacturers pay in wages has only to be di-
vided among 68,000 employees, tlie final result is
that manufactures yield about £1 in wages per
employee for short hours where agriculture "pays a
miserable 10s. for long hours. And still, in the
lexicon of Foreign-trade, the agriculturist is the
producer and the backbone of the country, while
the manufacturer is nothing in particular.
* * * *
Even the poor wages which agriculture pays are
only maintained by making the industry a para-
site, and propping it up by the carriage of its
goods at miserably unprofitable rates, while the
manufacturer is fleeced by heavy extra charges to
make good the dead loss on the “backbone of the
country.” And it may be mentioned that the
agriculturist is by no means the only “primary
producer” who does the parasitic act in this
fashion. Here are Statistician Hall’s latest
figures:—
Rates on N.S.W. Railways.
Average Charge
for Carrying 100
tons of goods
for one mile.
Hay, Straw and Chaff 0 3 4
Grain, Flour, &e. (up journey only) .. 0 3 7
Crude Ores 0 3 9
Coal, Coke and Shale 0 5 1
Firewood .. .. .. .. .. 067
Average for all Goods 0 8 8
General Goods (truck loads) .. .. £lO 6
When the farmer is charged an average of about
4s. per mile for 100 tons, and the other primary
producers are also let off at a huge reduction, and
the manufacturer pays from 12s. to £l, a general
average of Ss. Bd. is arrived at. But it is impos-
sible to cli irge the manufacturer enough to quite
make good the dead loss on the farmer, so the
N.S.W. railways are run on a chronic deficit,
except in very exceptional years. They showed a
loss every year under the late Chief Commissioner
Eddy’s management, and under Chief Commis-
sioner Oliver they showed a small and doubtful
profit in two years only.
* * * *
But even this is not all; there are other ways
in which the alleged backbone of the country is a
parasite, and other directions in which the spine
of the land has to be subsidised to keep it from
crumpling up. In N.S.W. the farmer has
hitherto paid practically no local rates what-
ever, while the people of the cities and
towns have been taxed considerably in this
direction. Even the land-tax has fallen
most heavily on the municipalities and least
heavily on the farmer. It is certainly now pro-
posed to give the bucolic person a system of local
government, which should naturally imply local
taxation, but the local government, in the
farmer’s case, is to be accompanied by a huge
system of endowments which will, in many cases,
leave him almost as free from local rates as he
was before. And in order to keep the backbone
of the country from sinking altogether it has been
considered necessary to let him escape from prac-
tically all the costly restrictions as to short hours,
fair wages, half-holidays, sanitation, &c., with
which the factory-owner has to struggle. The
individual, to whom the Foreign-trade press
always alludes as the sturdy, independent pro-
ducer and the principal support of the
community, lives by being allowed to work
his employees for a pittance from jack-
ass to jackass; by being permitted to work
his young children without pay in a fashion
which would land any manufacturer in the police
court, at short notice ; by exemptions from taxa-
tion ; and by enormous subsidies levied for his
benefit on the general community in the shape of
railway concessions. And with all this encourage-
ment the agricultural backbone of N.S.W., in a
good year, only produced about as much gross as
the manufacturer paid away in wages alone.
* * * *
Yet it is not in any great degree the agricul-
turist’s fault that he is a burden, and a fraud, and
a parasite, except in so far that he is occasionally
fool enough to vote for the Freetrade or semi-
Freetrade conditions which make him all
these things. For want of a larger manufactur-
ing population to consume his produce he has
reached, and in ordinary good years he has passed,
the limits of the local market. If N.S.W. had a
sane, high Protectionist tariff it would manufacture
for itself the great bulk of the £14,000,000 worth
or so of goods that it now imports annually from
outside the Commonwealth. That would mean
an immense increase of population in 11 or more
different classes. There would be •
(X) The people who would manufacture these
£14,000,000 worth of goods required for the existing
population.
(2) The people who would manufacture goods to supply
the wants of the people mentioned in class I.
(3) The people who would manufacture goods to supply
the people mentioned in class 11. and so on indefinitely.
(4) The families and dependents of all these people in
classes 1., 11., and 111.
(5) The shopkeepers, builders, the banking, insurance,
and other office people, the railway, tramway, and ferry
employees, carters, teachers, actors, policemen, parsons,
and a hundred other classes whom the people in classes
1., 11., 111., and IV., would employ,
(6) The extra country population—farmers, dairymen,
sheep and cattle and vegetable raisers—whom they would
require to feed the people included in all the classes up
to V.
(7) The families and dependents of the people men-
tioned in classes V. and VI.
(8) The shopkeepers, &e. (as enumerated in class V.),
that these extra farmers, &c. (as enumerated in class
VI. would employ, also their dependents.
(9) To start the circle all over again, the extra mass of
manufacturing population required to supply goods to
the extra population enumerated in classes IV., V., VI.,
VII. and VIII.
(10) To start the whole round a second time, the agri-
culturists, &c. (as enumerated in class VI.), required to
feed the people alluded to in class IX.
And so the circle goes on indefinitely—but then,
uuhappily, it is all a dream as yet. If Australia
had the high Protectionist tariff, if it had manu-
factures to supply practically all its own wants, if
it had the population that that would involve, if
its farmers were feeding the people who manu-
factured for them here instead of in England,
all would be different. But while the only possi-
bilities in the way of large agricultural expansion
consist in export to England, the agriculturist
seems to have no chance to be anything but a poor,
miserable parasite. He has got beyond the
capacity of the'local market. He has to compete
in England with the produce of more fertile
countries, of cheap labor countries, and of
countries which are not burdened with half his
freight charges. Again falling back on N.S.W.
Statistician Hall, these are the figures of the case
for 11)04 (apparently the export figures for 1905
were not made up when the “Year Book” was
published)which mostly refer to the export of the
wheat grown in 1903 :
Export of wheat from N.S.W.
(1904) .. .. .. .. 11,200,000 bushels.
Cost of exporting to London .. 1 )jd. per bushel.
Total cost of export to London,
i.e. , loss through the market
being in England instead of
Australia for want of a large
local manufacturing popula-
tion (about) £520,800.
* ♦ * *
And even this takes no account of an average
item of 4fd. per bushel for getting the wheat to
the seaport, an item which would be partly
saved if there were manufacturing towns dotted
over the interior of the country. .Also, the table
deals with wheat alone ; the whole N.S.W. crop of
wheat in the great boom year alluded to (1903)
was worth less than £4,000,000, and in 1904 it was
worth less than £2,500,000. A loss of over
£500,000 on a £4,000,000 crop, solely because the
manufacturing population is in England instead
of here, is something like an income-tax of 2s. 6d.
in the £ paid by the farmer to support Freetrade.
And if the crop had been larger, and a greater
proportion of it had been exported, the tax would
have been more. Of course the farmer didn t
really pay this amount himself; he couldn’t in many
cases. The community paid it for him by carrying
his grain on the railways at unprofitable rates,
by letting him off payment of local taxes to sup-
port liis own road and bridge and culvert, and by
allowing him to shamefully sweat his employees.
Then it charged the manufacturer extra railway
rates to make up the loss on the farmer’s produce;
it made him pay his own local taxes; it made him
help to pay for the farmer’s roads, bridges, and
culverts; it demanded that he should pay his em-
ployees decent wages for eight hours’ work, and
there is talk in some quarters of reducing the
artisan’s day to six hours ; and, on top of all this,
the Foreign-trade press called the manufacturer a
parasite. And, with all these drawbacks, in 1905,
which was a remarkably good year for agriculture
inN.S.W., though not quite equal to the great boom
year 1904, the manufacturer paid almost as much in
wages alone as the whole agricultural industry was
worth. A man who does things like that, with a
mere shadow of a tariff, and with all manner of
drawbacks and special exactions, should be en-
couraged. There is plainly far more hope of
wealth, progress and population in manufactures
than in all the blessed agricultural “ backbone of
the country.”
COMMONWEALTH LIFE ASSURANCE.
Two Bills dealing with life assurance have, it is
said, been prepared for the Australian Parliament
to worry ; and, though it would be an unspeakable
Bill that wouldn’t improve the present position,
no measure will be as good as it ought to be that
does not provide for Federal Life Assurance.
Even the anti-Socialist ought to have little to say
against that. It would interfere with no vested
interests. There are one or two proprietary life
offices certainly; but practically there is no good-
will whatever in Australian life assurance. Also,
it would cost the Commonwealth nothing at
all. The insurers would put up their own
capital, and pay the expenses of management.
At the very most the Commonwealth would be
required to advance £lO,OOO or £20,000; most
likely, however, it would not have to advance a
penny. The largest and most successful life
offices are purely mutual; they started without
any advance or paid-up capital, and the Common-
wealth Insurance Department could start on the
same footing.
* * * *
The anti-Socialist professes to be deeply inter-
ested in encouraging thrift. Even G. H. Reid
says he is burning with a desire to use the func-
tions of the State to promote that virtue, and any
better way of encouraging it than by establishing
an insurance department is not visible. For the
most effective way to encourage thrift is obviously
to provide a means by which the results of the
thrift are sure. And the State can’t be sure of
any concern which is outside its own control. No
system of mere inspection can give complete pro-
tection. If it is so complete as to amount to
management, then the State might as well manage
the thing itself and take the responsibility. To
take the real management out of the hands of
directors who have the responsibility is unfair ; to
take the responsibility without the management
is insane. Yet the State cannot give assurance
without undertaking management and control.
Under those circumstances, if it wants to give
perfect assurance, which is the most effective way
of encouraging thrift, it must establish and main-
tain its own Life Assurance Department.
* • * *
A Commonwealth Life Assurance Department
would not be called upon to spend vast sums in
tongue and shoe leather. It no more need canvass
for policies than the State canvasses for Savings
Bank deposits. Its first obvious duty will be done
when it draws up a set of tables, and makes a plain
announcement that it is prepared to take charge
of and invest the premiums which the public
pays in, and is equally prepared to pay
out on maturity of the policy. At present
the public is paying from 14 to 70 per cent, of its
premiums, not for insurance, but in salaries of
canvassers, superintendence of agents, travelling
expenses, &c. And there are other expenses
which are never reckoned as such. For purposes
of advertisement private life offices build palaces
which they call offices, and for which they get
a return of about 2 per cent. The other 2 per
cent, ought to be charged up as expenses, but it
isn’t. There are old-fashioned, conservative offices
in Great Britain which employ no canvassers,
&c. They offer insurance to such as come in
and apply for it, provided the applicants can
satisfy the medical referee; and their expense-
rate is no more than 5 or 6 per cent. The
Commonwealth Department could offer all the
advantages of offices of that type, and many
besides ; for it would become known to 50 per
cent, of the population, where the private office of
that type would not become known to 5 per cent.
When it soaked into the minds of the public that
every 10 per cent, of premiums saved out of
expenses meant from 25 to 50 per cent, higher
bonuses, the rush of insurers would probably be
greater than an army of canvassers could whip up.
If the A.M.P. could cut down its expense rate by
10 per cent, of premiums in this way, it would
be able to divide 29 per cent, more in
bonuses; and if other offices could get their
expenses down to the same level, their bonuses
would improve to a vastly greater extent than
that. Even, however, if there were no rush to
the Commonwealth office —even if it is true that
the average person has to be almost forced into
taking out a policy—the department would cer-
tainly get the business that would be most likely
to stick ; and, in spite of a pretty general belief
to the contrary, that is the only life assurance
business that is well worth having.
* 4 • •
But the chances are that, if the average person
has to be driven to take a policy, it is usually
because (1) he has his vague doubts whether it is
good enough to pay large sums for the mainten-
ance of expensive staffs ; and (2) he has his vague
doubts whether the money will be there when he
or his widow call for it. There isn’t a director of
the A.M.P. who was a director 20 years ago ; and
the manager and actuary are not the same as they
were when a 20-year-old policy-holder began
paying his premiums. In 20 years more there
may be as complete a change—it is almost
certain there will be. The present directors and
management of a private office may be financial
saints; in 20 years time, when the widow calls round
—and when, so far as she is concerned, it is more
desirable than it ever was that the office should
be manned by saints—the distressed but hopeful
lady may find that the saints have gone to their
reward and the 'premises have been closed for
repairs. When, on the other hand, the Common-
wealth closes its doors, it will be because the
Commonwealth has gone smash. In a private
office there can be no guarantee that 20 years
hence the office will not be in the hands of sharks.
In a Commonwealth office there is at least
the guarantee that 20 years hence the office will
be as good as Australia itself is at that time.
» * * *
It is not proposed that the Commonwealth
should compel anybody to join its Life Assurance
Department—except newly-appointed Common-
wealth officers; membership ought to be com-
pulsory in their case. There is no reason why
they (and indirectly the Commonwealth) should
pay large amounts to cover the cost of premium-
collection, etc., when the Commonwealth can
collect the premiums from itself practically
without any cost whatever. Everybody else
would be just as free to join private offices as they
are to-day. But while that was so, Australians
would have the chance of trusting Australia with
their life assurance business, ana any Common-
wealth Assurance law that does not provide for
that much, leaves out the simplest and most
effective means of providing Australians with
life-assurance that they can be sure of.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Craving for an Imported General.
On Friday of last week the S.M. Herald, which
always yearns to import something or somebody,
broke out into two shrieks. One was a positive
shriek because Defence Minister Flayford doesn t
propose to import a new military commander, but
to appoint a local man. The other was a tenta-
tive shriek, because the Herald doesn t yet feel
quite so sure as it would like to be that btate
Premier Cakruthers intends to sack the Aus-
tralian-born Chief Commissioner of N.S.W. rail-
ways and put an imported man in his place. On
the military question it asked wildly :
How can we expect or hope, then, to gain efficiency in
military preparation with none but Australian officers at
the head of our forces ?
How, indeed ? For over 50 years, ever since the
Crimean war let daylight in on the ineptitude of
British military methods, the want of any
decent organisation has been the despair of the
British army. Yet the Herald, with its im-
porting disease thick upon it, holds that it is
only in that disorganised army that we can hope to
find the leader we want. The British army is the
one possible school, and the man who isn t trained
there is useless. True that Joubert, Cronje,
De Wet and De la Bey were not trained there,
or anywhere else in Europe, and they held up
their end for three years with their home-made
tactics against the British army at great odds.
True, also, that the only land attack we have to
fear is through the landing of a regular army on
these shores —an attack by some such Power as
Japan or Germany—and there is not one officer
now on active service in the British army who
has fought, unless perhaps under a foreign flag,
against a highly-trained and disciplined foe, such
as Japan or Germany. There are plenty who
have scrambled fiercely with Soudanese, Arabs
and Pathans, and scrapped manfully with Dacoits
and the like, but the last semblance of a really
organised enemy that Britain met was the
Russian army that defended Sebastopol, and its
tactics were crude enough—also, the officers
who served there are dead, anyway. France,
Germany, Austria and Italy are in the same
situation ; the men who fought under Chanzy, Von
Moltke, Benedek, and La Marmora are almost
all dead, or superannuated, and there only remain
book theorists and men trained in manoeuvres
and sham fights. It was the same with Japan
until the other day, both on land and sea. And
Australia can do as they do—grow its own book
theorists', and have its own manoeuvres. It can
certainly procure from Britain a commander who
has seen plenty of active service, and whose ex-
perience would be invaluable if this country were
attacked by Dervishes or Beloocheese, but then
Australia will not be attacked by any such people;
and it is a question whether, when the only pos-
sible kind of enemy arrives, that kind of com-
mander with that kind of experience, might not
find that he had a whole lot to unlearn after
the battle had commenced. He might have
forgotten the book-theories, by which such
men as Oyaha and Togo evolved themselves,
while learning the best method whereby to
meet a whirlwind of black spearmen, or to
dislodge the mountain snipers who peg away
with their long “ trade ” guns behind rocks, and
the absence of the knowledge he had forgotten
might be of more importance than the presence
of the knowledge he had acquired. It certainly
seems a fair and reasonable thing to try an Aus-
tralian commander. He can learn his business
just the w y that the present French, German,
Austrian and Italian commanders have done, and
just as the Japanese commanders did before they
had experience with their first organised and dis-
ciplined opponent. Also, as far as concerns any
warfare with a disciplined enemy—the only kind
we need fear —he can learn his business just as the
British generals of to-day have done and are
doing. And if he hasn’t learned any Beloocheese
or Tibetan tactics—which are the principal kind
this generation of British officers has acquired
in the battle field—there is always the hope that
he may get on better without them.
♦
The Craving for an Imported Railway Genius.
Again the S.M. Herald puts up an utterly
illogical wail for an imported Chief Railway
Commissioner for N.S.W. :
We shall do best to cut ourselves and our chief State
asset clear from the conditions which have encumbered
us, and make a fresh start with new Commissioners and
an amended Railway Act. We want a Chief Commis-
sioner with wide experience to take charge, and after
that we want to ensure that he will have a free hand, un-
embarrassed by jealousies in the Commissioners’ room, or
by partisan disaffection in the service, or by political con-
trol under any specious guise, or by a defective Act ....
It would serve no good purpose to constitute a new' Com-
mission which would perpetuate the evils of the old. To
prevent this the Railway Act must be so amended as to
give the Chief Commissioner the power and responsi-
bility. The majority vote must come to an end. The
Chief Commissioner must govern in fact and earnest as
well as in name. To overlook this primary condition
would only leave the door open to a still more flagrant
repetition of what has gone before.
This is the ease put forward by every paper which
demands that Chief Commissioner Oliver shall be
got rid of to make room for an imported man (like
Dick Speight, of Victoria), and it is a case of
which any fair-minded paper which isn’t muddled
in its mind should be utterly ashamed. When
cut up into verses this is how it reads
(1) Chief Commissioner Oliver should be discharged
because he failed to agree with the other two Commis-
sioners. That is the only accusation against him, and m
the most important case brought before the Commission
of Inquirv it was held that he did right to disagree. The
Herald reckons that the disagreements were brought
about “ by jealousies in the Commissioners’room,” and
by the evils of a system which made Oliver Chief only in


name. But he is an Australian, and must go all the
same. .
(2) The new imported genius, the Herald reckons,
would not get on a bit more smoothly than Oliver if he
were made nominal Chief under the same conditions as
Oliver had to struggle w ith. In fact, it suggests that he
would probably do worse.
(3) The new imported British expert should, in the
Herald’s opinion, come in under a set of conditions
which will make the position possible.
(4) And the Australian expert should go out, in the
Herald’s opinion, because he couldn’t get along smoothly
under conditions which were impossible, and which no
one would dream of asking the British man to face.
(5) Oliver has produced very good results from the
railways, despite the fact that he was hampered by con-
ditions under which the S.M. Herald wouldn’t ask an
imported British manager to produce good results, or
anv results at all. But that doesn’t count in his favor.
(6) The idea of giving Oliver, the Australian who has
served N.S.W. well, a chance to show what he can do
under the same favorable conditions that it is proposed
to give to a British stranger is, in the Herald’s idea,
absurd. Oliver is only an Australian.
(7) And if the imported English expert gets on without
friction (which he can hardly avoid doing if he is abso-
lute boss) and yet produces no better cash results than
Oliver, the Herald will quote him to the Day of Judg-
ment, or thereabouts, as an evidence of the necessity of
importing men for every well-paid billet. And, inferen-
tially, the mean and silly old paper will point at Oliver
all the rest of his days as a proof of Australian incapacity
because he didn’t do what the Herald itself admits
couldn’t be done, i.e., keep two men in subjection who
had authority equal with his own.
Once more, unless the Herald editor can run that
paper coherently as one of three cantankerous
editors, all with equal power, or unless Car-
ruthers can get along smoothly as one of three
equal Premiers, the other two being his consistent
enemies, neither the Herald nor Carruthers has
any right to throw out the chest of self-righteous-
ness or protrude the stomach of patronage in this
case.
State Kids.
About State children :
Recently there has been in NiS.W. an epidemic of
cruelty to State children on the part of monsters to whom
they have been indentured. That is to say, a number of
cases have been brought to light, and a few fiends have
been brought to justice, or something less than justice.
Unfortunately, there is more than a suspicion that this
torturing of State waifs is fairly common, and,
as the Chief Justice said recently at Goul- '
burn, the defencelessness of these unfortunate children
made necessary the passing of sentences that would
strike terror into the hearts of such as were only to be
appealed to through fear of the consequences. One of
the Goulburn fiends was sentenced to imprisonment, and
the other to a fine of £l5O. That was by the Chief J us-
tice, who evidently had a proper appreciation of his
responsibility as the protector of the helpless children
who are, owing to their misfortunes, doomed to a period
of what is supposed to be benevolent slavery.
Stipendiary Magistrate McNevin, of Burwood (Sydney),
however, had different ideas when Ellen Downing, of
Five Dock, was brought before him on a charge of having
cruelly beaten a State girl, aged 14, and otherwise mal-
treated her to such an extent as to reduce her to
a state bordering upon idiocy. Before going to
Downing’s service the child was sworn to have
been bright and intelligent. She was returned
to Ormonde House as “useless” by this brazen virago,
and when the nurses came to examine her she was found
to be a mass of bruises, and in such a state of hysterical
nervousness that she was almost unable to answer even
the kindest questions. The Crown pressed for a
term of imprisonment to act as a deterrent, but
Stipendiary Magistrate McNevix said he “was not
disposed to accept the suggestion that the case
was one calling for the infliction of a term of imprison-
ment as the accused had a young child to nurse, and he
thought the infliction of a ‘ substantial fine ’ of £2O
would be a deterrent to others.” Well, either Stipendiary
Magistrate McNevin or Chief Justice Darlev is wrong.
Mr. McNevin must have been aware of how the Chief
Justice dealt with similar cases, and he deliberately
ignored the lead of the Judge. So either the Chief Jus-
tice or the Stipendiary Magistrate is quite unfit for his
billet, and the Department of Justice ought to signify
which it considers is wrong. Common humanity declares
in favor of the Judge.
Five Dock, where this child was so hideously mal-
treated, is a suburb of Sydney and a place where inspec-
tions are fairly frequent. As a matter of fact, it was
sworn that the inspections were frequent, and al-
though the inspectors noticed that the child was
becoming scared and losing flesh they failed to discover
the systematic torture to which she was being subjected.
At any time an examination of the child’s body would
have proved the sort of savage Mrs. Downing was, but the
examination was never made. The inspectors, no doubt,
thought Mrs. Downing was an ordinary human being, but
State inspectors should consider every woman who has a
child in her care a hardened criminal till they have
proved her to he otherwise, and then they should con-
stantly regard her as a person who is about to
become a criminal, and be constantly on the look-
out for the first symptoms. On all occasions
the bodies of the children should be examined
for signs of violence, and the law should be amended so
as to protect these children in the first case from the fury
of fiends like Ellen Downing, and in the second from the
mercy of magistrates like Mr. McNevin, of Burwood. It
is hard to say which the child requires the most protec-
tion from—in The Bulletin’s opinion magistrates like
Mr. McNevin are the more dangerous.
♦
Cohen’s Straight Tip.
Fob once in a way an English boat has brought
Australia something that ought to do it good.
The desirable import is nothing more, however,
than a newspaper paragraph to the effect that the
Canadian Province of Ontario had asked J. Bull for
a conversion loan of £1,200,000, and had got only
£120,000. It doesn’t seem a matter of much Aus-
tralian consequence, perhaps; but when it has
properly sunk in, it ought nevertheless to give the
Australian State-Frights people a violent start.
Canada —the Canadian Federation —has borrowed
in London at a rate that works out at just under
3 per cent, interest. It has 21s per cent, stocks
which were selling when the mail left at 86
ex dividend. Yet, though Canada—the Cana-
dian Commonwealth —can borrow at under
3 per cent., and (in view of its sinking fund)
has, in fact, money thrown at it, Ontario,
which is a Province with a population as great
as that of N.S. Wales and Queensland put
together, could not float a per cent, loan—
could, indeed, get only one-tenth of what it
asked. Moreover, the refusal wasn’t because
Ontario had been on a financial jag ; on the con-
trary, this was the very first external loan Ontario
had ever sought, and until it floated some Treasury
bills a while ago to build the North Bay railway, it
had no Provincial debt whatever. Ontario and Mani-
toba stood together in the matter of having abso-
lutely kept out of the pawnship. The £1,200,000
asked for from Bull was to pay off the Province’s
Treasury bills; and the loan would not have
added a dollar to the Provincial debt. Under the
circumstances, failure seemed to Ontario too ridi-
culous to think about; and it was only on second
thoughts that it had the loan underwritten.
Yet, but for that underwriting, Ontario —this
Province that is half as populous again as N.S.
Wales—would by this time have had to be
making something like a forced levy upon
its local banks, or telling the holders of Treasury
bills that their paper was compulsorily re-
newed. And Cohen, whose other name is
Bull, is right. Why, for instance, should he
lend money to N.S. Wales or S. Australia or
Westralia, whose position is the same as Ontario’s
—or will be when the Bbaddon clause dies—why
should Cohen lend to these States when the prac-
tical means to pay interest belong to some other
authority — in this case the Common wealth? Cohen
tells Ontario that he will lend to Canada, but he
isn’t going to fool round double-banking the
bill of sale; and, anyhow, he isn’t going
to lend to any scrap of Canada when there
is a power exercising authority over the
whole country. He isn’t going to know any frac-
tion of the country in this money-lending business
when there is an authority that can give security
over the whole lot. Sooner or later Cohen will
tell the Australian States the same thing—and
Heaven knows in the next seven years he will
have chances enough to tell them, seeing the
number of loans that must come up for renewal in
that period. If the Commonwealth had a sinking
fund, invested in Australian securities, it would
soon be in a position to save the States from
disaster when that sort of thing happened ; it
could take up the loan itself, or at least take up a
great deal of it and finance the rest. What stands
out so far that even a States.-Frights politician,
should be able to see it is that, if Bull-Cohen
will not lend to Ontario to renew its bills, it
is lunacy to expect him to lend again and again
to the six Australian States even for renewal
nurposes, seeing that the Australian States are
vastly more heavily burdened with debt than
Ontario is. It is Cohen’s tip to the Australian
States to leave off playing the vain, cantankerous
goat and to get the debts passed on to the
Commonwealth promptly ; and it is Cohen’s tip
to Australia to start a sinking fund, invested in
State securities, whether the States leave off
being vain, cantankerous goats or not.
4.
A Hundred Million Asset.
As a national asset, Queensland’s 40 million acres
of forests have been set down by experts at
£100,000,000. Nevertheless, up till a few years
since, nearly all the soft woods used in the State
were imported,—mostly from America. With the
usual prejudice against everything Australian,
the old Boom and Burst Governments imported
teak from India and pine from the land of the
Harvester swindle to furnish their railway
carriages, and walnut from the Cold Land for
other purposes. But already all this is changed.
The railway workshops at Ipswich use none but
local Woods, which are found to be riot
only much cheaper, 'but also much better.
The whole of the Timbers used in the
fitments at the' Brisbane Lands pile are of native
woods. But for an asket estimated at £100,000,000
it is complained that the forests give too little
revenue to be worth considering. Last year all
that was got in was £12,000 ; and it is suggested
that, in order to increase the amount and make
everyone pay his fair due, the royalty should be
collected, not from the cutters, but from the
millers. Some small royalty should be charged,
no doubt; but this isn’t a branch of the subject
that need be worried over. The importance of
the forests is not to be judged by the amount of
revenue they can yield directly, but by the num-
ber of men they can furnish with employment.
The forests may be valued as a national asset at
£100,000,000 ; but that means little more than that
here is the raw material out of which Aus-
tralia may earn £100,000,000 of wages. The
disposition of the politician to judge things
by the amount of money credited to
them in the Treasury is a good disposition to be
suspicious about. It has been, for one thing,
largely responsible for the wholesale destruction of
forests. Ministers have consented to the fire-
stick being put to hundreds of thousands of
pounds worth of raw products, because the
Treasury would get nothing to speak of out of them
—nothing directly, anyway —and the Treasury
wouldn’t trouble to see what it could get in-
directly—simply because behind the firestick was
a man with ss. or 10s. per acre in his hand.
Whether things will ever improve as long as the
Minister of Lands is also Minister of Forests is
doubtful; certainly they are not likely to improve
until the Minister of Forests is capable of throwing
himself as Minister of Lands out of the office,
when he hangs around in order to pouch a few
more acres ot forest land, and misapply the sale-
proceeds by using them as revenue.
The Great Improvement Lease.
Tom Nicholls writes from Queensland
Before the N.S.W. Lands Commission lapses, it might
give the public a glimpse of the •present administration,
especially in connection with Improvement Lease policy.
A settler between Singleton and Richmond asked
the Lands Department to make available for home-
stead selection a certain classification area, but the
reply was that the Department intended offering the area
as an Improvement Lease ; and this, mind you, in face of
the fact that the place thereabouts is studded with dairy
farms; in face of the fact that this area has a double
frontage to permanent water, and that the average
annual rainfall is something over 30in. ; and regardless,
too, of the fact that the spot is situated within 100 miles
of Sydney.
Well, I tried my luck from here (S.W. Queensland) and
asked the Department to make the area, or part of it,
available for homestead selection. I added that I would
select 1280 acres, and would bring with me other family
men who would take the balance —the whole of the area
if available. Further, I undertook to at once place any
sum of money within reason in the hands of the Depart-
ment as a guarantee of our bona fules. Also, I pointed
out that I was a native (as were my friends) of N.S.W-
But all that failed to budge the Deform crowd —which is
so very desirous of peopling the dear old “ Mother State.”
(Its troubles about the Old Girl!) I enclose the reply
that came to my request: “ It is intended to offer the
land in question'as an improvement lease.”
Now, it so happened that, about the time I wrote the
Department on behalf of myself and friends—all of us
working men who want a home for the nippers and a show
of giving them some schooling—it happened, I repeat,
that a certain wealthy bachelor asked the Department to
make this identical area available for improvement lease.
And this middle-aged gent already owns the very cream
of the land thereabouts (outside dairy farms), miles and
miles of the best of it. Well, the Department had to decide
whether to let the stout middle-aged bachelor ha vet he 'land
(he already held miles of land), ortogive closersettlemerita
chance. And the middle-aged bachelor (who has miles
of land already) got the area. The Deform gentlemen
(who nearly died of shock when Crick let a man have an
improvement lease somewhere out on the verge of
Hades) are playing it pretty low down when they offer for
improvement lease land that would keep several families,
as in the case under notice. The Department assures us
that there is “ a large tract of country ” thereabouts similar
to that which we asked for. The Department is a [libellous
statement cut out] and I don’t mind tilling it so. I’m
satisfied that political land agency is rife in Sydney to-day,
and before I, at all events, can hope for a home, I must
get a relative into Parliament.
In partial corroboration of the above, The Bulle-
tin has before it a letter, dated last month, from
the N.S.W. Lands Department, in which it
defines the land (situated in the county of Hunter,
which is just behind Newcastle), and declines to
consider the request for a homestead selection on
the ground that this area is intended to be let
“on improvement lease at a moderate rental.”
Apparently it was being saved up for this inferior
and unproductive form of tenure. Hunter county
is a fertile region with four inhabitants to every
five square miles, and the fact that it has alto-
gether too much big landlord, and needs people
a great deal more than it does improvement
leases, seems to be borne out by the fact that it
has a diminishing population; it had 1973 people
in 1891, and only 1792 in 1901.
A Lesson in Closer Settlement.
Victorian Minister of Agriculture Swinburne
was up in North Gippsland lately, and summed
up what he saw at Boisdale in this way : “ Some
day the State will have to do exactly what is
being done here.” That estate, of 6000 acres,
Foster Brothers have cut up into farms of 100
and 150 acres, each with a comfortable brick
cottage, sheds, stables, etc. There is a central
cheese and butter factory and an experimental
farm, the lessons learned from which are handed
on to the tenants. Foster Brothers have of late
abolished the tender system under which the
tenant —often a Syrian, Indian, or Chinkie —
sweated himself and his children, and ground the
last ounce he could get out of the land ; they now
offer the farms at an annual valuation, and pick
their tenants. With itself as landlord, and assum-
ing that the tenant is guaranteed some reasonable
fixity of tenure, that would be almost an
ideal system of Closer Settlement for any State to
adopt. All the tenant has to find is the stock,
the muscle and some brains. He gets the use of
sufficient land to make a good living, yet not so
much that he can afford to let any lie idle ; he
would get the benefit of scientific experiment and
supervision; and he would pay less rent
than the Boisdale farmers, for the State tenant
has no private landlord to maintain. That is the
sort of work Swinburne should undertake at, say,
Willaura (Vic.) at once, not “some day.” Here
the rascally profit-sharing system obtains. Half-
a-dozen owners of 45,000 acres have cut up
their huge blocks and let them to landless toilers.
They provide nothing but the land and the fences
—neither houses, implements, nor experimental
farms. The tenant has to plough, sow, harrow,
fertilise, reap and hand over a third of the gross
returns, with the infamous addition that the
tenant gets absolutely nothing till the grasping
soil-owner has first collected a bag (of .wheat) to
the acre. These 45,000 acres were, previous to the
drought of a few years back, merely pasturage for
sheep, and worth £3 per acre at most—which
means that they were worth an annual rental of
3s. or 4s. per acre. This year’s results pan out
like this :—Gross returns from the blocks, 156,000
bags of wheat; landlord’s share, about £30,000, or
13s. 4d. an acre; tenant’s share, after paying
for manure, labor, etc., £13,350. That is in a good
season; in a poor one the landlords would get
about the same return, the tenant little or no*-
thing. And on top of all this the tenant is
perennially improving the land-shark’s property,
yet gets not one farthing for that improvement.
«.
“ Natural Industries a Discouragement.
“Real Australian” writes:—
I have visited Argentina and Brazil and compared
Argentina from an agricultural productive standpoint
with Australia, the comparison being all in favor of
Argentina, because, while its climate and soil are like
Australia’s, it has water and cheap labor without stint,
to make the climate and soil intensely prolific. Argen-
tina is one vast pampa or plain—treeless,-.stone less, well-
watered on the surface and below, ready for the plough,
and capable of growing every plant, and rearing every
beast most useful to mankind. The breeding of horses,
cattle and sheep is conducted in Argentina more scienti-
fically than in Australia, and as the years roll by our
stock-breeders will send to Buenos Ayres for prize
animals. Argentina will always be able to beat Australia
in the markets of Europe, with its wheat and meat and
all the produce of the farm and estancia, because its ports
are only three weeks’ steam from Europe. Buenos Ayres
is 7160 miles from Southampton and Melbourne 11,267.
Droughts are rare in Argentina and do not last long, and
water is found everywhere by sinking. Lucerne yields
four or five crops a year, and carries four or five times
more cattle and sheep than natural grasses, while the
cattle are double the weight of those fed on pampa grass.
The Riverina country of N.S.W. is identical with the
lucerne districts of Argentina. That country’s wool pro-
duction is increasing rapidly, and though the wool is a
third less weighty and a third less valuable than the
Australian, it is improving in quality and quantity every
year. Cheap Italian labor is plentiful, and immigration
is constant from Southern Europe. We cannot hope to
keep up the competition with Argentina in primary pro-
ducts, and the Republic’s largely-increased production
may very soon drag down prices in London of meat,
butter, wheat, and wool. In Argentina there are seven
great freezing works with a killing capacity of 54,000
animals a day! The United States can scarcely
grow enough wheat to feed its 80,000,000 peo-
ple, and Argentina, with 80,000,000 acres of wheat
lands, will feed both Britain and the United
States. Therefore is the need pressing to foster our
manufacturing industries to augment the number of con-
sumers within our gates and of our own foodstuffs. Before
our new manufactures are well under weigh under a re-
vised Federal Customs tariff, the United States will be
swamping the Pacific markets with the overplus of its
goods, and there is no reasonable doubt that America
means to capture the sovereignty of the Pacific. This is
what Secretary to the Treasury Shaw said four years ago,
referring to the Spanish-American war: “We then
gave notice to the world that we proposed to
police the street in which we live. The United
States will police not only the street in which
it lives, but the entire Western Hemisphere and
with it all the countries and islands washed by the Pacific.
American wealth and energy, plus Hawaii and the Philip-
pines which are ours, plus the Isthmian Canal which we
shall surely construct, plus the merchant marine which
we shall surely build, will transfer the sovereignty of the
Pacific from the Union Jack to the Stars and Stripes.”
This flamboyant spread-eagleism is in deadly earnest!
The competition of rival producing nations is becoming
keener, and America and Argentina are countries whose
antagonism must be feared by Australia and proper pro-
vision made for instantly meeting and combating it. We
should strive to attract population here by the sim-
plest plan—the public and private support of existing
Australian industries, and by granting the amplest
succor to individuals who will start new industries and
manufactures of whatever kind. This can be done best
by at once establishing a broad and enlightened scheme
of Protection to Australian industry. Without Protec-
tion we cannot have manufactures, and without manu-
factures we cannot expect more population. More people
in Australia would mean more consumers and more de-
fenders, both of which classes we require badly if the
expansion of Australia is to keep pace with the expansion
of America and Argentina.
♦
“ Vica” : Westralia has got together a queer sort
of stop-gap Ministry. Mooke (Premier), Keenan
(Attorney-General), and Price (Works) have been
in Parliament only since the last election, smd the
two latter have seats snatched from the Labor
party, but which are not likely to be lost to that
party for any length of time. Premier Moore (he
always calls himself Newton Moore) is a fat,
short-winded Majah of militia, whose, role in
politics has hitherto been to bark about immigra-
tion on Canadian lines. He seems to have
become Premier chiefly because he is an easy-
going sort of person whom nobody dislikes very
actively. Treasurer Frank Wilson is a capitalist
in timber and coal. He is described by some as
one of the best-hated employers in the West.
Keenan, who turned out Labor-man Johnson at
Kalgoorlie, is a lawyer with a yet unproved repu-
tation for cleverness. Works Miiiister Price,
who is supposed to be “ progressive,” ran a steam
laundry at Fremantle before becoming a states-
man. Connelly, M.L.C., is an old Parliament-
arian of the useful and harmless type. Probably
the best-placed of the Ministers is H. Gregory
(Mines and Railways), who, though unpopular
with his officers, showed that he understood his
work when he held the Mines billet before.
Piesse, M.L.C., is one of an ancient Sandgroper
family, which owns most of the South-east. The
members of the family, from their hatred of elec-
tion troubles and their care of themselves, are
known as the PiESSE-at-any-price crowd.
4
Re the question as to whether Riverina be-
longs by the right of ancient and dusty inherit-
ance to Victoria or to N.S.W., why not let
Riverina itself decide the question ? If it wants
to remain pare of N.S.W., that should outweigh
all the faded parchments that the Age or Thomas
Bent can dig up from all the recesses of history
or legend. If it wants to join Victoria, that
should be sufficient in itself, provided it is willing
to take its fair share of the N.S.W. debt along
with it when it changes its State allegiance. If
it desires to set up for itself, that should also be
definite. Live people amount to a great deal
more than dead sheepskin, and this principle
should be recognised all over Australia,. which
badly wants to be a great deal more subdivided.
If the capital and metropolitan district of any
State keep an outlying region in that State
by compulsion, it is just the case of Ireland
or Poland over again in a modified form, and
Australia has expended a good deal of sympathy
on Ireland and Poland. North and Central
Queensland, which were sold in bondage to Bris-
bane as the price of the State’s adhesion to the
Commonwealth, are cases even more to the point
than Riverina. When Australia starts to improve
its Federal Constitution, the radical amendment
of clauses 123 and 124, which make the consent of
a State Parliament necessary before any outlying
district can secede, should receive earnest atten-
tion.
—.-
Apropos of the Buninyong-Criffel collision in
Sydney harbor, it is surely time that some more
definite rules were made about towage. A tug
carries a certain disarrangement of lights to inti-
mate that it is towing something. The tow may
consist of one or more vessels behind, or of a vessel
alongside. In this particular case the economy
was effected of towing a vessel alongside and one
behind. The Buninyong people saw the towing
signal, and they saw, alongside the tug, the vessel
that was in tow. The idea that there was also a
vessel lumbering along in the gloom behind the
tug didn’t occur to them, and the towing signal
gives no hint as to the number of craft that one
tug may be dragging. So the craft that was
sagging away at the end of half-a-mile (more or
less) of rope rose out of the darkness and took the
Buninyong by surprise, long after the tug and
what appeared to be its only burden had gone by.
♦—
Thus Herbert, Easton, who recently arrived in
Melbourne from S’ Africa, where he put in a
lengthy spell inquiring into settlement matters :
As far as Britishers are concerned, there has been
but poor progress, and, while the Boers are increasing
in numbers, many of the British people and colonials have
been driven out of the country. That is largely the
work of foreign financiers and their policy of employing
Chinese coolies and cheap Continental labor in place of
that of Britishers. Though Johannesburg is turning
out £2,000,000 sterling in gold every month, the depres-
sion is far worse there than it was when the out-
put was half as much. It lias been many times repre-
sented that the employment of Chinese coolies
would bring ; about an influx of, and provide
work for, white labor, but the only result has
been to increase cheap Continental labor. The
only hope of maintaining the colonies as British
possessions is to settle people of our own race on
the land, and it would pay the British Government to
subsidise people to occupy the land. As it is there is no
likelihood of the people of the new colonies paying back
the £30,000,000 advanced by the British Government for
public works. Even if the Boer regime were reverted
to it would be better than the present rule of foreign
capitalists who desire to crush out the British element.
It was not unlikely that such people are supporting the
natives in the present rising.
4.
“ Two Seas ” writes :
It makes the old stagers smile to read all the agonised
yelps in the Sydney Telegraph's “ Soil ” column about
the gradualness of the N.S.W. Lands Department. If a
selector doesn’t get his application dealt with in a month
or two the outcry is something tremendous, yet present
writer remembers plenty of instances where selections
were not even surveyed within ten months of being taken
up. But the rent was demanded, all the same, from date
of application, and the lessee, whose rent ceased on the
same date, calmly ran his sheep over the selection until
To-morrow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Serious affairs to-morrow.” — Greek proverb.
Come, let us give thanks for To-morrow, our
gospel, our faith, and our joss ;
’Tis on it we rely when we borrow, instead of
propelling our Cross;
What a manifold blessing we’ve found it —or has
it proved really a curse ?
It’s our creed, anyway—we’ll expound it with
yards of procrastinate verse ;
Let us pile I O U’s on its altar, let us paste the
P.N.’s on its shrine ;
Let us never forget it, nor falter from a creed
that is yours and is mine !
For we pile all our trust on To-morrow, and we
take the world easy and gay ;
And blow young Posterity’s sorrow, if we can be
jolly to-day !
Oft I muse who invented To-morrow-—the cutest
of statesmen was He,
Who, using that sponge-full of chloro-form, fooled
the electors B.C. !
Many faiths have appeared through the ages, to
wilt like spring blossoms away :
And the cult of To-morrow still rages—we load
all our fears in that dray !
A fig for Mahomet and Buddha —their gospels
are recent and cheap ;
Yea, To-morrow has served for a rudder to steer
us across the great deep !
So I call for three cheers for To-morrow —for the
creed that is hoary and grey ;
And it’s blow young Posterity’s sorrow, if we can
be cheerful to-day !
Aye, we’ll fix up Australia To-morrow ; we shall
arm both ourselves and our sons.
The trenches of war we will furrow, and line
them three deep with our guns.
But to-day we’ll play football or cricket, or will
send a remittance to “ Tatt’s ;
We’ll spend the glad hours at the wicket, and
welt useless globules with bats !
For there’s nothing so painful as thinking when
you’re not in the humor to think ;
While there’s nothing so pleasant as drinking
when you’re just in the humor to drink !
So I say, let us drink to To-morrow —let us have
a loud time while we may—
For it’s blow young Posterity’s sorrow if we can
wave corkscrews to-day !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


IS
/
a \
y
=r
“Here, cabby, what tobacco is that you smoke ?” “ Gallaher's Two Flakes.
“ thunder, drive me somewhere where I can buy a ton of it.”
250
'L'eSgils
OUTSIDE WRAPPERS
FROM
r - DELICIOUS
(Chocolates.
CAILLER’S. P.O BOX
SYDNEY m
the selector fenced him off, which he might be permitted
to do in a year or two. Know more than one man who
was kept waiting fifteen months before his deposit
and survey fees were returned to him after an un-
successful application. All the peculiar methods of the
Lands Department, and a forecast of the result of the
recent Lands Commission of inquiry, may be found
recorded in the back files of The Bulletin, yet, like the
sailor who punched the Jew, the Telegraph’s corres-
pondents have “only just heard about it.” Present
writer belted the Lands Department for 16 years before
he recognised that he was bucking against an immovable
object. Apparently Dr. Arthur imagines that he is
the irresistible force that is going to shift it. I
should smile. Nothing short of poisoning the whole
staff and making a fresh start will better the present
position. It’s the “ understrappers ” who run the show.
They teach the new-chum Minister how the game is
played.
That playful old political elephant, John
Hurley, of N.S.W., has been dancing on a tub to
the great joy of the N.S. VV. country alderman,
whose god is mostly Proputty. John represents
one of the wealthy districts of N.S. Wales—a
district which, on account of its coal and iron,
might be vastly wealthier if it acquired the sense
to leave off sending the foreign-trader Joe Cook
to Parliament. ’Urley, it seems, has 14 parks in
his electorate ; but instead of the local property-
owner maintaining his own parks, he cadges from
the Treasury; so that the man at Tibooburra, who
hasn’t any park, is compelled to pay for keeping
the goats out of the place where ’Urley’s con-
stituents play cricket by day and wander with
Merely Mary Ann by night. This year he
couldn’t cadge more than £5O ; whereupon John
wrote and scattered broadcast a letter that was
intended to be wildly humorous, suggesting that
the park trustees should erect a tin tablet to
“ commemorate the Minister’s generosity.” It is
a depressing thing to think that that keen, delicate
rapier-thrust will most likely win John Hurley a
hundred votes. For so long as the Treasury can
be fleeced for the upkeep of country roads, cul-
verts, cricket-grounds, pumpkin shows, benevo-
lent societies, Marie Corelli clubs, billiard-
saloons, and so on, the man who can get the most
from the Treasury—or who can make the most
fuss when he doesn’t get what he wants from the
Treasury—will be “ the chap to save the country.”
Vast numbers of the people don’t care two straws
about politics—at least they don’t care fcr such
politics as are left to the State Parliaments —but
some of them are solid on dodging all the local
rates they can, and heaps more of them are inter-
ested up to the neck in the cricket club or the
pumpkin show. N.S. Wales was supposed to
have achieved something in the way of local
government lately. But the thing takes a long
while getting a start, and when it does start it
promises to be much too ineffective a thing to
scotch the professional cadger for special park and
culvert votes.
*
From the land which Seddon is putting in
pawn:—
Premier Seddon has ceased to cast round for fresh
conquests ; the glamor and the glory of the ring fizzled
out with his last blare on the Boer war. His energy is
now spent in mollifying his erstwhile enemies, and
making his peace with the Mammon of unrighteousness.
Instead of gathering to his counsels the sturdy Demo-
crats who stood loyally at his shoulder in his fighting
days, he is surrounded by milk-and-water Liberals, who
only joined him when their own party was pounded
out of shape. These new-found friends are not built on
fighting lines ; and, even if they were, the grinding of
discordant axes would bring them back to the starting-
point with nothing done.
Thus, while the so-called Farmers’ Union has been
kicked and cuffed from Auckland to Invercargill,
Seddon is more concerned about applying restoratives
than making use of his overwhelming victory. Against
an Opposition which is only a faint streak ; against a
leader of no ability ; against a handful of men who
haven’t the remotest glimmering of a policy, the
opportunity for lighting up the world presented itself.
M.L. was at least promised a very necessary increase in
the graduated land-tax and an equally necessary reform
in the protective tariff. But the land-grabber and the
one-eyed single-taxer croaked dismally, whereupon
Seddon hastened to say that the graduated tax will only
be imposed if he finds his finances are not as strong as
they ought to be. With this little proviso the proposal
is hung up for years, because Treasurer Seddon will never
know the pinch of poverty so long as a Cohen is left to
hang out the three-balls sign of Lombardy. And he does
not even feel equal to the task of a tariff revision. Yield-
ing to the croaking of the anti-tariff crowd, a few years
ago, a reduction of a penny per lb. was made on the duty
on candles, with this luminous result: —
Maoriland. Imported,
lb. lb.
1900 .. 3,317,409 1,609,121
1901 .. 2,614,741 2,258,177
1902 .. 2,792,351 2,268,914
1903 .. 2,746,647 3,042,053
1904 .. 2,246,001 3,038,621
There are many other branches of industry which are in
need of a stimulant, especially where the Arbitration
Court has ordered the payment of fair wages—notably
the woollen industry. Indeed, for want of more Protec-
tion, Arbitration itself is in great danger. But the voice
of the man with the cow has prevailed, and the importer
is given a new lease of his premises. Meanwhile the
borrowing craze continues ; so everyone’s stomach is full,
and everyone is warming his hands while the house burns.
♦
Ever since ’Enry Wrixon wrote of the young
Australians’ alleged fondness for a black coat the
Argus has been harping on the theme. It broke
out angrily again the other day because business
men report that, whereas there was a time when
parents asked for jobs for their sons in the works,
they now solicit “places” for them in the
offices. Naturally, the Argus overlooks the
fact that this development is an inevit-
able effect of the condition it struggles its
darnedest to maintain. Anti-socialism is a battle
to uphold a system which makes the job in the
factory hateful, despicable, and barren of profits,
and the place in the counting-house highly
respectable and desirable, since it gives a lad the
chance of growing up to own workers instead of
working for owners. The Aegus and its follow-
ing rage heathenishly because boys shun the idea
of being mere grafters, and they rave more fear-
fully still against the reformers who are seeking
to make the carpenter’s billet as desirable as the
shopman’s from every point of view.
:
A doleful Londoner writes to one of the loca
weeklies :
For centuries the upper classes have had, more or less,
the handling of legislation, with a natural result, until
during recent years the organisation of the laboring class
has forced several measures for the latter’s benefit.
During this period it has more or less silently, but ever
surely, gained in power, and now a new force is sprung
upon us, and we are faced with a party whose efforts are
to be confined to obtaining measures for the amelioration
of its own class. The contest will doubtless be severe,
but every tooth drawn looks undoubtedly like coming out
of the heads of the middle classes. Year by year we see a
growth in national expenditure, and a succession of
bounds in municipal taxation, and to the latter there
seems to be no climax. On whom does this fall ? On the
middle classes mostly—and yet on all sides we hear of
nothing but pandering to the working-men.
In Freetrade Britain, with its vast army of clerks,
shopkeepers, and meanly-paid “commercial”
workers of the non-productive order, there is truth
in the contention that a Conservative middle class
stands to be financially squeezed between the new
Labor party and the old unyielding party of privi-
lege and capital. Increased expenditure for the
education of the poorest classes and the improve-
ment of their social conditions comes hardest on
the middle folk, who can least well afford it.
Therefore, the policy of the doleful Londoner
aforesaid and his grumbling brethren should be
to send their own representatives to Parliament
to work with the Labor party for the passing of
new land laws and other anti-Fatman measures.
There are in Britain two numerous classes, and
one smaller class, which hitherto has pulled all
the strings of Government with the approval of
one of the numerous classes, the Labor party hav-
ing no representation at all. Now that the Labor
party has arrived, the two great classes are bound
to combine against the all-powerful lords of the
and. The middle class must drop its con-
ervatism or bust.
♦
Bent, who at some times is a loud, hollow joke,
can at other times put a thing through about
twice as fast as most men. While Private
Enterprise has for three years been gradually
building the Essendon (Vic.) electric tramway,
and municipal councils have been squabbling for
almost as long over the Kew to St. Kilda,
Malvern to Prahran, and Esplanade lines, Thomas
has, per electrician Bradford, built and started
the St. Kilda to Brighton line in about a year.
And it has every appearance of paying from the
jump. The cars —to hold 40 passengers, at a penny
a section—are stoutly-built, neatly finished, well-
lighted, and easy running. They travel from 10 to
15 miles an hour, with more certainty and less noise
than any other vehicle round Melbourne. The
power-house is a severely-utilitarian-looking struc-
ture of galvanised-iron, painted the same ginger-
pink color as Tait’s engines. But so far the track
is only a single one, with half-a-dozen side tracks
in the three miles and a-half; and that isn’t cal-
culated to give the best results. Nevertheless,
even as it is, this bit of line will set going a
movement to electrify the whole of the Melbourne
suburban railways, giving a speedy and easily-
handled and unwasteful means of locomotion ;
and the sooner the better.
The memory, of the Bush veldt
Carbineers tragedy is revived in
Sydney by a visit from Mr. Easton,
of S’Africa, who was behind the
scenes from the first in the crime by
which the British Government
made a group of Australians the
scapegoats for the sins of a
whole army. Mr. Easton reports
that the Canadian who was pun-
ished with Morant, Handcock,
Witton, and the others, has been
amply compensated by the British
Government for the miscarriage of
justice ; as also has been an Ameri-
can citizen who was concerned.
Only the Australians get no com-
pensation. In Morant’s case there
is, of course, no remedy. But
Handcock left a widow and child-
ren who call for consideration.
Witton has suffered many months
imprisonment. Lenehan (who had
absolutely nothing to do with the
tragedies and wasn’t even in their
vicinity) was subjected to grave in-
dignity, imprisonment and trans-
portation. These people have
lacked redress simply because the
Australian Government has been
so careless of its responsibilities
to its citizens that it has not cared
to ask for compensation for what
are now admitted to have been
cruel wrongs. Apropos, they tell in
S’Africa a yarn of how Witton’s re-
lease finally came about. A petition
had gone to the King, but it was intercepted and
never reached him. Finally a S’African in the
bacon-and-butter business, who knew tea-man
Lipton, put the facts before him, and he put them
before President Roosevelt. Then the help of a
very charming society woman was enlisted. She
told the King, and the thing was done. It is a
circuitous track that leads to the fount of mercy
in England, and even the road to the fount of
justice isn’t quite straight.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “The Prodigal Son.”
Criterion “ The Man from Mexico.”
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace Theatre “ Nell Gwynne.”
Lyceum Hall Frank T. Bullen.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Her Majesty’s “Sunday” (last four nights of
the season).
Theatre Royal “ For the Sake of a Woman.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall “ Living London and Moving
Melbourne.”
Athen.eum Hall West’s Pictures & the Brescians.
Cntcus} Kemp>s Bu ckjumpers.
All farce is divided into three parts, of
which the first is the husband going to a doubtful
supper-house, and his wife going also to observe
him, and the police raiding the place ; the second,
the weird lies which everybody tells everybody
else because to tell the truth in a farce would be
to spoil the fun; and the third, the lame ex-
planation which arrives at curtain-fall time.
“The Man from Mexico,” now running at
Sydney Criterion, breaks away from none of
these essential traditions. It differs from others
only in the fact that the leading prevaricator
actually gets to gaol, instead of escaping it by a
whisker’s breath, and thus it provides an original
Erison scene which is highly diverting—gaol being a
umorous sort of place viewed from the outside.
Something more is done in the way of giving an
air of freshness to the proceedings by providing
diverting songs and dances. For the rest it’s the
same old farce of “The Magistrate,” “What
Happened to Jones,” and “Are You a Mason ? ”
order. Fitzhugh has been out all night and comes
home with the milkman, a policeman, and a
sentence of 30 days in the cells. Mrs. Fitzhugh
has also been out all night. She had, from the
best of motives, gone to the same hall of riot as
Fitzhugh, and was arrested, spent the night in
gaol, and isn’t quite sure that there is not
some more gaol ahead. Fitzhugh, who has been
sentenced Under a false name, is allowed a few
hours grace to settle his affairs. He announces at
home that he goes on a trip to Mexico, and starts
for Jug. In the second act he is in J ug. In the
third act he is in a morass of perjuries, and finally
comes on to safe ground with the statement that
he really has been in Jug, and not in Mexico—in
Jug, doing time to save his wife from disgrace.
Curtain.
» * * *
But with such entertainment as “The
Man from Mexico,” it is not the play, but the
players, that matters. And here the production
scores, for the cast is as strong as any
that has attempted this class of work in Aus-
tralia. Miss Grace Palotta, very much improved
since her last visit, in singing and dancing, with
all her old grace of face and figure and piquant
charm of manner, is the ideal lead for a merry,
extravagant comedy. It is hard to define in a
word the Palotta manner-—something more than
“ chic,” something less than “ dashing.” It con-
sists of high spirits, expressed with absolute grace,
and nowhere marred with even a, trace of
clumsiness. In the last act a Mexican dance
with Hugh Ward, full of : vivacious coquetry
MISS MARGARET THOMAS, the charming
singer who marries Mr. Gordon, K.C., of
Sydney.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
and languorous surrender, gives the lady a
chance to show how much her dancing has im-
proved lately. On Hugh Ward falls the bur-
den of playing The Man from Mexico,”
the harassed unfortunate struggling against a sea
of lies and a mountainous headache in the first
act; doing prison steps on a bread-and water diet
in the second ; and winding up as a pseudo-
Mexican in the third, with accounts of boating
trips on the Amazon, and of a great bull fight
(in which his bull ran second). It’s a huge part,
and it was inevitable that on the first night there
should be some little lapses—mostly in the direc-
tion of over-emphasis. But, withal, Ward always
keeps the house merry, and his picture of the
woebegone convict, with a dismal song, “ Nobody
Cares,” and a highly original dance, are the back-
bone of the piece.
* * * *
George Willoughby, as the kind chap
who is always “fixing things up” for his friends,
and leaving them deeper in the mud than before,
has an excellent part. Willoughby has modified
that rather “ bustling ” manner in which he per-
vaded the “Smith” and “Jones” farce, to a crisp
dry humor, which is very entertaining. He would
improve things if he cut out some verses of a
topical song dealing with Williamson, Mus-
grove, Rickards, Flemming, Miss Brune,
Little drops of Peppermint
Made by Mr. Wood,
Don’t they do a body
Such a world of good.
Little drops of Peppermint Cure
Make you well again,
Drive away that hacking cough,
And every ache and pain,*
Miss Ross, and other theatrical personages.
Great assistance is given to the principals
by Reginald Wykeham as a broad farcical
detective, Arthur Cornell, E. Bonfield, C.
W. Gamble, and J. W. Hartman. Practically
all the members of the co. have been imported ;
and some of the minor ones do not warrant the
expense. But that does not interfere with the
success of a comedy which is as hilarious as any
that Sydney has seen.
* -# * *
“ The Prodigal Son ” continues to be pro-
digal in scenic effects, wickedness, remorse, and
the casino variety of gaiety at Sydney Royal. The
play is popular with right-thinking people, who
see in it a great moral lesson. But other-thinking
people seem to come to the conclusion that the
Prodigal Son, who has many years of gaiety and
only a few years of highly affluent remorse as a
popular poet, is a luckier dog in every way than
the Elder Brother who stays at home, and puts
the Icelandic cat out at nights, and has no
girl and no gaiety, and struggles all the years
of his life with the mortgage. The Bulletin is
an other-thinking person, and comes away from
the Royal determined to be a Prodigal Son if the
chance comes along. If it is too old for that it
would rather be a Prodigal Grandfather than not
Prod, at all.
#
Most persons show their teeth when they
are pleased. They do it for the same reason that a
dog wags his tail. Therefore, there was as great a
tooth-show in the audience watching the revival of
“Florodora” as there was a flower show behind the
footlights. The bloomy spray filled the stage of Her
Majesty’s on Saturday night, and if the audi-
ence had had tails you couldn’t have heard
the songs of the performers for the sound of
enraptured caudal appendages beating the floor.
Miss Florence Young was out of the cast for
resurrection night, but resumed her place as
Dolores on Monday, and the piece promises well.
Haigh Jackson’s “O, My Dolores!” was en-
cored as usual. It has indeed a place in memory
dearest, and has enough seriousness and pathos
to make it appear like really-truly love-making.
Miss Nellie Wilson, who has a sweet soprano of
waffle lightness, took Miss Young’s place as
Dolores the first night, and Miss Clara Clifton
told in basement tones the value of Tact, tact, tact.
Mr. Fred. Leslie, as Cyrus Gilfain, still flouts
the ivory moon with his high kicking, and for
interpolation a burlesque on “The Fatal Wed-
ding” is dragged in. It isn’t dragged in
shrieking, though. The audience does that. Next
Saturday “ A Country Girl ” will be revived.
* * *
Stephenson’s English Musical Company is
keeping up its reputation as a mirthmonger (that’s
as good a word as ironmonger, and much newer).
Anyone wandering into Sydney Palace these
nights is sure to see a stout, superior old
gentleman dressed like an advertisement for a
high-class tailoring firm fall ignominiously over a
bucket and scrubbing brush, or a thin, superior
old spinster kissed by one of the lower orders.
The stumble and kiss are, of course, set to
music. During the week Bill Adams blew
his own trumpet and lighted up the stage
with his ruby nose, and on Saturday last “The
Dandy Doctor,” described as “a musical cocktail
in three swallows,” was staged. It is a humorous
dose, and gives no cause for a wry face. A
girl masquerades as her own servant to
avoid marrying her father’s nominee, and the
maid assumes her mistress’s status. A lay person
takes the place of a consultant physician and pre-
scribes —quite as harmlessly as most doctors—for
patients. Miss May Beatty, who is the servant,
and, for a while, the mistress, is a Tweeny,
who, for comical squalidness, throws the original
Belinda of “Our Boys,” and Dickens’s “Mar-
chioness” into the high relief of dressmakers’
fashion-plates. The music is skittish as young
goats and always tuneful (some tunes, even in grand
opera, are not tuneful—to some people), and
the dialogue is much smarter than one hears
in trams and market-places. In fact, it is smarter
than one hears at swell dinners. The Stephenson
season concludes to-night.
Frank T. Bullen opens his Sydney season
on Monday night in the Lyceum Hall. Bullen
has been everything on the sea except a pirate ;
and he would have been a pirate only that he has a
sense of humor and religious convictions. On
land he is a bright writer and talker, with much
to tell; and in Melbourne he has shown that the
vogue of the lecturer is not dead.
** * *
The Tivoli still stands four-square among
the nicest pawnshops of Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, where the Very Best People find a long-lost
uncle up the side passage. Nothing else in par-
ticular has happened there since last week, except
that H. Rickards, Commander-in-Chief of all the
forces, sang a song for one night only by way of
announcing that he was busy packing his carpet-
bag before setting out to rummage the world again
for new artists. Amongst other attractions he
might do worse than get hold of a clerical gent
who has some new ideas concerning the whale
that caused Jonah to disappear some time back,
his own theory being that the whale wore petti-
coats and a picture-hat. If he can’t get him, he
will probably get several girls who will sing “ Lu-
lu [pit-a-pat, pat-a-pit] I love you [pit-a-pit, pat-a-
pit], My own Zulu [pit-a-pat], Indeed I do [pat
pat] ” —and that will be worse. Meantime the
show, even without any newcomers, is worth the
money.
** * m
The criminal law of Victoria, in conjunction
with Magistrate Panton, provided an unparalleled
advt. for a “Wild Australian Buckjumping”
show at Fitzgerald’s circus building (Melbourne)
last Saturday. In the first place the Melbourne
dailies reported at great length the arrest of “a
tall picturesque figure,” with uncut hair and
garments of Buffalo Bill ornateness, who is said
to be “wanted” on 15 charges of lawlessness.
This was “ Professor Kemp ” (known to the police
as John Patrick Daly), the forthcoming star of


đ
CITY ® ® o
Positions
secured by Postal [7
Tuition in Business
Subjects.
‘Home Study ’ Post Free.
Stott & Hoare’s Busi-
ness College, Sydney
d
[KOLAI kolal kola] kolw kolal "l'
CUP IC UP IC UP| cU P CUP| I
kolal kola) KOLfll kola! KOLAI KOLA
CUP CUP CUP CUPICUPICUP 1
CUP
KOLA KOLAI KOLA KO
KOL
KOLA
CUP CUP
CUP CUP
CUP
KOLA
KOLA KOLA I,^o
KOLA
CUP
CUP CUP
CJ
A GREAT BUSINESS, KOLA-CUP going to the Railway Station,
A MOST WHOLESOME CHANGE FROM STRONG SPIRITS, KOLA-CUP NOURISHES THE
STOMACH AND MAKES NEW BLOOD. DOCTORS RECOMMEND IT AS A SPLENDID
TONIC FOR INVALIDS AND CONVALESCENTS.
KOLA-CUP Repels Influenza.
AIL CHEMISTS, :/- and 4/6 PER BOTTLE. ALL HOTELS, 6d PER CLASB.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney
(OPPOSITE
G.P. OFFICE).
the Wild Australian entertainment aforesaid. At
the solemn hour of midnight on Thursday, the
man with the long back hair entered the watch-
house, his hands handcuffed behind his back, and
a constable bearing a loaded revolver beside him—
ride next morning’s papers. On Friday the police
brought him, in all his showman’s glory, to
Melbourne City Court, where Pan ton, P.M.,
was asked to remand the accused on the
petty charge of stealing a saddle. Among
the fourteen other alleged charges was one
of escaping from custody after he had been
arrested for horse stealing, but for some unstated
reason the police confined their indictment to the
saddle point on which turned the question of bail
for the prisoner during his term of remand. Here
the Wild Australian magistracy of Panton came
bounding into notice. In consideration of the
fact that “Kemp” was before the court as a
simple larcenist and nothing more—the inciden-
tal allegations being non-official—Panton fixed
the bail at two sureties of £5OO each, and the
magnitude of the bail was a further advt. for
the Buckjumping show. The management an-
nounced that the sureties had been duly found,
and Dare-Devil Kemp would positively appear on
Saturday night. At 8 p.m. just as much of Mel-
bourne’s populace as could be squeezed into Fitz-
gerald’s building was waiting to see the Dare-
Devil and co. act up to the terms of the advt.
■K ~K * *
It was half-past 8 before the small party
of crude entertainers got fairly going within the
limited circus space, which had been railed off as
a “ stock-yard.’’ For the next two hours nothing
happened to warrant the excited rushing to and
fro of Professor Kemp. There was a little buck-
jumping and a great deal of tedious preparation
for it. Small boys were called forth to ride
youthful bulls and ponies. A man with a cord
made several poor attempts at lassoo-throwing.
A formidable bull that might have warmed things
up for his tormentors if they had been looking
for trouble, was not given fair play for his feel-
ings. The dullness of the performance in
general caused an expert stockwhip-cracker
to be hailed as a boon, for he at least could do
something excellently well. But the joy he im-
parted wasn’t worth more than a small percentage
of the money charged for admission. Miss Kemp
sat a genuine buckjumper with better success than
the men who had fallen off, but Kemp the Dare-
Devil, Kemp the hero of the two £5OO sureties,
Kemp whom everybody had come to see—Kemp
had shown no horsemanship up to 10.20 p.m. So
the present writer went sorrowfully away, think-
ing of Wild Australian Kernp as a man who ought
to settle down and get his hair cut.
** * *
“ Anti-Bunkum ” writes of the Melbourne
buckjumping business -
Prof. Kemp and a persistent person in a frock coat
said a great deal about things that didn’t happen, and
considerable time was occupied by taking down and
replacing slip-rails, and the saddling of several alleged
buckers which raised very little dust, though one or two
Wild Willies and Dirty Dicks managed to slide off grace-
fully. Miss Kemp, a young person in highly decorative
costume, proved her mettle on a tall, lean brute that
leaped and doubled up like a jack-knife without shifting
his light burden. Prom time to time the “Professor”
yelled vague challenges and offers of “ hundreds,” and in
return the crowd yelled for the much-talked-about Kemp
display. The star item eventually turned up in a restless
grey nag that pawed and side-stepped, the “boys”
having great difficulty in placing the necessary gear
on. At last a bag was ingeniously slid over the
animal’s head by means of three cross ropes held taut
forming a slide over which the bag was pulled, and after
many attempts “ Snowy ” Morgan, who previously rode a
wild steer, mounted and stayed some few moments, only
to assume a restful position. Kemp then began a dis-
course on his intentions during the season, but was
promptly requested to “get work” and show what he
could do. The buckjumping or irritation of animals show
concluded by Kemp, who stands 63 inches, being tied to a
light filly, the animal then careering several laps in a
series of waving motions. The brightest part of a mixed
entertainment was a display of whip-cracking by Dan
Hassett. The weakest item was a Strong Man, whose
feats of bluff and muscle can be equalled by many local
amateurs.
** * *
At the Princess’s the Brough-Flemming
Co. will appear on Saturday (19th), opening, as
afore-stated, with “Dr. Wake’s Patient.” Mel-
bourne is talking about the matter in an interested
tone of voice. Miss Beatrice Day and Herbert
Flemming are looked forward to, and the re-
appearance of Mrs. Brough will give a very
particular power of attraction to the comedy that
brings her back to her old friends.
* -X- *
Miss Tittell Brune’s long stay at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) is to be ended next
Wednesday, and then the theatre will go into
recess for two nights whilst the Collier Co. is
making ready to appear. “Dorothy Vernon”
passes out of the bill to-morrow (18th) in order
that “Sunday ” may fall on Saturday and carry
the season to a close. The management states
that the name part in “ Sunday ” is Miss Brune’s
“ most famous impersonation.” A number of
people will think differently, but the management
ought to know. It has the exact cash measure-
ments of Miss B.’s various fames.
* * *
At Melbourne Town Hall, the. pictures of
mighty throbbing London are still throbbing,
except on nights when the Lord Mayor wants the
space for a throb of his own. But Frank Bullen,
who moved from the Athenaeum to the Masonic
Hall for his last two appearances, has gone touring
in the direction of Sydney. Bullen was a great
comfort to his high priest, Smythe, during the
Melbourne season. He repeated each of his four
lectures at the instance of General Desire, and
the General’s army crowded the hall every time.
** * *
“ For the Sake of a Woman,” the latest
Andersonian effort at Melbourne Royal, re-asserts
the essential wickedness of “Stephen,” in melo-
drama nomenclature. The evangelical names
Matthew, Mark and Luke—especially Luke—are
associated with evil-doing, as a rule, but for
downright villainy Stephen is rarely equalled
and never surpassed. Willard naturally is the
Stephen of the piece. He. seems to have a taste
for electrical experiments, and when he gets Miss
Duggan into his laboratory he presses sundry
buttons with murderous intentions, and the
results are amazingly droll. The lady is rescued
from Stephen’s clutches by her husband (George
Cross),: a banker, who has been misunderstanding
her for some time. It isn’t a very reasonable
misunderstanding, but it serves to promote
unhappiness and provide cause for a recon-
ciliation at the finish, what time Stephen
strikes a tragic attitude in the custody of the
police. The people of this drama are more
addicted to wealth and respectability than is
usual on the Andersonian stage. In addition to
the banker and the villain who toys with science,
there is a white-wigged vicar, likewise his son
who has been elegantly brought up, and an adven-
turess described as “Lady Clare.” Moreover,
Bert Bailey, on the present occasion, is a gilded
Trevor, a young lord of the manor, distinguished
among his fellows by a family nasal drawl, which
probably came over with the Conqueror. The
various members of the company fill their exalted
stations very creditably considering that they have
only lately escaped from “ The Midnight Mail,”
where they were cast in humble circumstances,
and Miss Duggan couldn’t raise the means to buy
food for the baby. On Saturday she was recon-
ciled to her banker in an expensive pink hat; also
Miss Guildford was becomingly attired, and Miss
Mabel Lane, as Lady Clare, presented a stylish
appearance when she came to a violent end.
** * *
All the complimentary things said by The
Bulletin re West’s Pictures and the Brescians
during their Sydney season will be equally true of
the same show now that it is quartered at Mel-
bourne Athenasum Hall. The pictures screened
on Saturday were almost perfect specimens of
biograph work, and the eye of an admiring
audience followed them from first to last with-
out feeling worried. They rarely wobbled, and
they flickered not at all, and they were peaceful
subjects for contemplation as a rule—pictures
that came and went without ear-racking noises.
Sandwiched between two periods of biograph the
musical entertainment by the Brescians gave
more than middling satisfaction. In their sing-
ing and instrumental performances the lady
violinist and the contralto make good individual
scores, and the general effect of the little concert
party is in harmony with the pictorial ends of the
show, which has evidently come to Melbourne to
stay.
#* * *
The Three Lees (who are singing acrobats),
also Brightie Smith and Baby Watson, have joined
the Rickards forces at the Opera House. Other-
wise the bill is about the same as last week, so it
appears that the new arrivals are extras rather
than replacements.
** * *
Adelaide has seen nothing of the ‘ ‘ draw-
ing-room entertainment ” type for years (Mel. B.
Spurr died just when the bills were up to
announce his coming), and Leslie Harris, with the
Yeamans-Titus pair, has put in a merry and
profitable Cup Week at the Royal. The lady has
some very good imitations of opera-singers and
others, but the public insists on and gets
her baby prattle as chief item. Harris
is a fine musician who has got off
the rail; but then musicians are plentiful
and story-tellers with his sense of humor are rare.
“Tambour Major” is just coming in. Frank
Bradley, one of Australia’s chief amateur actors,
has been “farewelled” with a good all-round per-
formance of “ Lady Windermere’s Fan.” He has
a speaking-voice which is a distinct asset, and can
make love in a convincing manner; but London
is a large place to get a start in.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ 0.K.” : A while ago an Antarctic Expeditioner told us
that the popular notion of an iceberg was quite wrong,
the bergs being flat-topped and sadly inartistic Also he
showed some photos, or sketches, of bergs that looked as
smooth as a bowling green on the summit. But Frank
Bullenshows a picture of an iceberg almost as rugged and
peaky as the most popular-notioned of them. Seemingly
they float in all shapes. The Antarctic gentleman had
only the little knowledge which is a dangerous thing.
The sprightly Dartos have fallen on somewhat evil
times. Monsieur sprained his ankle about two years ago,
and has since had to desist from tossing his better half
up in the air in “Zee Pol —ka.” An Australian, writing
from Nice, where the Dartos are resting, says the little
madame’s bodices consist of even less waist-band and
shoulder-strap than heretofore.
“O’Fipp”: Nobody who read the elegant extracts in
Melbourne Her Majesty’s advertisements could complain
of being lured to “Dorothy Vernon” under false pre-
tences. For instance: —
Dorothy : “Oh ! I have so longed for you, John.
My John ! My Jack ! My Johnnie ! ”
Manners : “My Dorothy ! My Doll! My Dolly ! ”
When one comes to such phrases in the sort of novel on
which “ costume ” plays are founded, it is safe to bet that
the continuation will be in this tone: “And as she
trembled to his manly embrace, the ‘ glug-glug ’ of the
nightingale was heard from among the dear old cedars,
while overhead the first paly gleam of Astarte’s crescent,
not yet bediamonded, seemed to cast a benediction
upon the re-united lovers Finis.”
“Edyson”: Re “ Dorothy Vernon.” I don’t recollect
a more brazen or uncalled-for bit of twopenny colored
melodrama in a play with pretensions than the conclusion
of act I. This act has been presented in a light comedy
vein, but Dorothy’s low comedy papa (a fond, if some-
what thunderous parent) wants to kill her lover. The
lover has escaped, and Dorothy holds the key of the back
gate. “ Give it up, you hussy, or I’ll have you whipped ! ”
cries the angry father. Dolly throws the key over the
gate, strips her frock from her shoulders before the whip-
armed myrmidon, and cries : “ Now for the lash !” Cur-
tain. It is wholly factitious and fatuous, for there is not
the remotest possibility of the old parent allowing his fair
daughter to be flogged in his own backyard by the
common butcher, but the situation is stormiiy applauded.
The Turkish method of advance across the
boundary of peace is not the kind of progress
achieved by theassistance of D.C.L. whisky, which
pushes forward the advanced posts of industrial
achievement; not those of gun and bayonet.
D.C.L. puts heart into many an enterprise and
enterprise into many a heart. A nip of D.C.L.,
dispensed by a bright Hebe, is the finest after-
luncheon tonic in the whole business world.*
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe, during the last quarter of a
century, has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
Actor Gerrard has been having more Australian experi-
ence than he bargained for. While rusticating at
McLeod’s station (N.S.W.), a bull came on the scene,
upsetting all Douglas’s meditations and Douglas himself,
with the consequence that the curly-headed one is now
the possessor of three broken ribs.
“ Carson ” : I feel that I can die happy now that I have
seen “ Professor ” Kemp, the alleged buck-jumping man,
face Magistrate Panton’s Court on a charge of larceny of a
saddle. With his long ringlets streaming all over Mel-
bourne, his wide felt hat, heavy black cloak (the kind the
brigand wears in grand opera when he is an armed bari-
tone in a cave), riding pants, tall boots and spurs, he
looked something between a Mexican cow-youth
and a Spanish hidalgo. He also resembled a South
American insurrection, and he reminded me a good
deal of San Martin’s army of liberation crossing the Andes,
combined with a little of Garibaldi and something of Ajax
facing the lightning. When he threw the long picturesque
cloak round him and clanked his spurs he recalled
memories of Columbus finding America, or Cortez annex-
ing the goods and chattels of Montezuma, and when he
left on bail he recalled the back view of Boabdil leaving
Granada. He was a great spectacle, and should have
carried a banner. Yet it was all over the alleged stealing
of some leather object or other.
“ BILL” SQUIRED, Champion Heavyweight
Pugilist of Australia.
Photo, by Barroni, Melbourne.
Cabled that Miss Olga Brandon, once a well-known
actress, and a Sydney native ot American descent, has
died in extreme poverty. She was a very beautiful
woman and appeared with Willie Edouin’s company
at London Royalty in 1887. Why and how she died
in poverty is not explained.
A little play by J. M. Barrie was to have been produced
at the Comedy Theatre, London, on sth April last. It is
entitled “ Punch,” and deals with the domestic life of
that long-nosed homicidal hero. There are only four
characters, and in the cast were included the names
of two actors well-known to Australians—Dion Boucicault
and George Anson.
Bullen’s lectures remind one that there is a great
opening for a deep-sea diver who could spin picturesque
yarns of his experiences with ships’ cargoes and corpses
in Davy Jones’ locker. The divers thus far have been
dull, unimaginative fellows, looking at wrecks in a
salvage-business way, and saying nothing about the
things they might have done but didn’t. Henry Lucy
tells a story that leaked out concerning some divers who
found a large stock of dead bodies packed closely between
decks, but kept the discovery dark because there was no
money to be made by bringing up such goods.
Theodore Kremer, author of “The Fatal Wedding,”
learned the art of play-writing from Dan Barry, with
whom he once toured in Victoria. That accounts for
many things.
“S.T.S.”: The only new thing I learned from seeing
“ Everyman ” was a pretty periphrasis. Said a critic of
the priests : “ Their children, it is said, sit by other men’s
fires.” All decorous editors ought to insist on the use of
this delicate phrase when appropriate: “ Petitioner
then gave evidence that a child of co-respondent was sit-
ting” (or “might be expected to sit”) “by his (peti-
tioner’s) fire.’
“ T.F.M.” : The outer husk of George Coppin’s old
Queen’s Theatre is still standing-, and as it was built by
John Thomas Smith in 1844, it must now be one of the
oldest surviving landmarks of early Melbourne. It is
notable that the three men most closely associated with
the early fortunes of that “ magnificent temple of the
drama ” (so it was described in the newspapers of the
period) all played a part on the political stage in later
days, viz., J. T. Smith, Coppin, and Morton King, The
latter was a heavy tragedian, who became lessee of the
Queen’s when Coppin departed for Adelaide, after making
his first “ positively final appearance on any stage ”; and
under his baptismal appellation—Mark Last King—he sat
in the Victorian Parliament in the sixties, where he was
more of a light comedian than a melancholy Dane. He
was of small account as a law-maker.
Mary Conly, the Melbourne contralto, whose voice had
somewhat more volume but less “color ” than that of her
contemporary, Amy Castles, is to sing at the Hereford
Musical Festival, and the reports on the subject will be
interesting to her former barrackers. Miss Conly, who is
well within the “ twenties,” may possibly have a fine
future as an oratorio singer. At any rate, she has
advanced W'ithouf being-pushed, what time half-a-dozen
other Victorian girls were discovering that Europe had no
use for their crude little warbles.
ENTICEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIO.
If I were a chorus girl,
How I would adorn the stage
In the dance’s dreamy whirl !
Robed in mist and wreathed in ptarl
I would surely be the rage
If I were a chorus girl.
I would fire the dullest churl,
I would charm the sourest sage,
In the dance’s dreamy whirl.
Like a floweret I’d unfurl
Like a red flag I’d enrage !
If I were a chorus girl.
Like a foam bell I would swirl
Dazzling courtier, prince, and page
In the dance’s dreamy whirl.
Locks and limbs and robes I’d curl
Round the heart strings of the age.
If I were a chorus girl
In the dance’s dreamy whirl 1
DOROTHY FRANCIS McCRAE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Hera: Both just miss the bus, and the writing
is dreadfully hard to read.... The Hack: It is hard
to write inspiriting: verse about violets.. ..F.W.:
“Drowned” beats us badly. It reads like poetry, and
now and then we see a glimmer of the meaning just as
you may see afar off the glimmer of the light outside the
bush pub. door. And when you arrive the pub. is
shut. So is the poem Cam: “Slipped up”
too irregular in metre Gambusino : All rather
rugged. “Beal and Wraith” would pass but for
the occasional bumpy sections. “ Giles ” malodorous-
....P.M.: “Prayer” regretfully declined... .Meroc •
“Morning Storm” doesn’t storm much Mark B. :
“ Dan ” has some good verses, but the last two spoil it....
P.J.D.: No name or address With “Sailing Time”....
A.J.E. : “Lover’s Choice ” too hackneyed X.O. : All
British silver coins are of their face value, no matter how
much defaced, at a bank.. ..Gunner : Fourpence to pay
on your letter informing “ Dandalout ” of his vast ignor-
ance. Under the circs. “ Dandalout’s ” vast ignorance
will go unchecked M‘Nab : You base your theory on
the idea that “the export of wheat is practically nil,”
and that wheat is carried at a loss on the railways so
that the man in the city can have cheap bread. But the
export of wheat in 1904 (no later statistics available) was
over 33,000,000 bushels —more than half the crop. It
had to be exported because the manufacturing popula-
tion which eats it is in England—not here as it should be.
And seeing that we are the most remote of the wheat
suppliers, it costs nearly lid. per bushel in charges from
Sydney or Melbourne to London, so we have to subsidise
the farmer with cheap railway rates, so that he can com-
pete in England. If the manufacturing population was
here, and the lOd. or lid. per bushel was saved, the
farmer could afford to pay fair railway rates
Outhbert Wyldeholme (wherever did you get the name ?):
Verses just plain drivel, almost as dreadful as your pen-
name....Mark M. : Too rough J.V.E. : Can’t find
words to express effect of your poem Will M. : A grave
is an unpleasant hole in the ground, and when you’re in
it you know- as much about the waving grass, gleaming
stars, and all the rest of it as the grave does ; and the
class of poetry that represents a decaying corpse lying
asleep dreaming of the pleasant things going on above is
very h0110w... iD.M. : Too unreal. They don’t employ
white boys as domestic servants in Colombo... .Bosak :
Too labored Horace B. : Verse is almost as bad as the
joss superstition Mackay : Your yarn contradicts
itself. Obviously if she knew he had mistaken her for the
other woman, she ought to have the sense to know he had
mistaken the other woman for her H.G. : Governess
yarn good, but has no ending'. Beminds one of a line
greyhound cut off at the loins The Jade: Birth-
rate coo unpleasant.. ..H.J.K. : Corpse yarn nauseous—
D. Jelley : (1) There is no guarantee, yet, of that Fiscal
Beferendum. (2) If it comes, there is no guarantee that
it will be made an honest question between Protection
and Freetrade. By Protection we mean high Protection
—the kind that protects. By Freetrade we mean real
Freetrade—not the old NiS.W. Freetrade device of
heavily protecting wine, beer, tobacco, sugar, and two or
tnree dozen other articles, and subsidising Freetrade
newspapers with gratis postage, and paying huge bonuses
to the agricultural industry with railway rebates, and
then calling the results of this Protection a proof of the
blessings of Freetrade. If there is to be a referendum
between real Freetrade and real Protection The Bulletin
is willing 1000 times over, but there won’t be if the
N.S. W. Freetrade Laborists can help it. It will probably
be like the referendum on the reduction of Assembly
members, in which, with the cordial approval of
the State Labor party, no one was allowed to
vote for a reduction to less than 80 members....
Dick: Maoriland’s debt costs the people £2 7s. 4d. per
head annually, not £1 9s. 6d. The capital value of land
in M.L., as you say, increased by nearly £37,000,000 be-
tween 1891 and, 1904, but that includes State-owned
lands. And a whole lot of that inflated value is created
by borrowing. Leave off loans first, and then you can
resume land at something nearer to its fair value. The
“ patriots ” who “ prefer land nationalisation to debt re-
duction ” are merely looking for another excuse for bor-
rowing. There is nothing to prevent the two going to-
gether. You might as well say that true patriots prefer
onions for dinner to debt reduction H.E.M‘I). : Go
and kill some more poem lovers. The market is still
overstocked Geo.S. : Yes, think the voting machine
par. went through ; anyhow, revive the matter when a
chance crops up E.S. : That would be carrying
Nationalism to an absurdity... .Hyderabad: He wasn’t a
Bulletin man (you can always tell a Bulletin man by
the fact that he doesn’t want to borrow money
on the strength of his Bulletin connection), and
we can’t undertake to collect the money for you and
remit to India Sam K.: Story of the betting system
familiar in character and not over-bright in treatment—
Aegis : Promising copy, but over-strained. Keep on
Janor : “Had Been” not badly written, but we’ve had
him so often before that he has to be specially well done
to get another chance S.P.B. : Nominal value of an
American dollar : 4s. 2d. ; exchange value, 3s. 6d
Unsuitable: G.C., G.8.M., Jackass, Maureen. Half-
starved, Poor Will, Batoon, E.C.8., E.A.G.
TO AETISTIC (AND INABTISTIC) OONTBIBUTOBS
Dan : Hard to say whether the jokes or the pictures
are the worse L. Coates : One may do as suggestion..
G.T.H. : Soap joke unpleasant P.A.H. : Scratching
topics are not popular in art Nella : Only a drunk by
the road-side out of perspective... .G.S. : “ Stranded ” and
“ Military Manoeuvres ” don’t rise much above the level
of infant art. The sailor in “Stranded ”is 10ft. long
Godfrey : Declined Eric J. : “ Uncle ” joke is unusual
without being funny Harold F. : If you are as young
as we suppose, there is some hope for you in art, pro-
vided you can get good training C.W.D. : Not at all
humorous Lou W. : Picture of an elephant with a
belltopper on its cranium rejected Gallagher: Three
drawings, all hopeless L.C.: Telephone picture crude,
and it’s more of a tragedy than a joke F.J. : Sketch of
crippled dude not up to mark Willjaysee : A large and
impossible collection L.S.: “War Path” has a lot of
humor, but is too crude. There should be some pros-
pects, with training, for a man who can devise a jim jam
like that:. ..Ernest L. : Laborious soap joke H.A.C. :
Drawing too weak, joke too strong Dunbar: Bo
earthly use sending sketches like these Unsuitable :
M.P.H., S.W.M., W.W.


Furred vSkins
Rabbit iSßins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGN/TENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY .
&
W/ u
YOU WOULD LIKE *
Photog'raphy
Because it is so Simple yet so Fascinating, so Pleasant
arid so Edifying. Persons in all walks of life have found
in Photography a relaxation from the every day round
of life.
There’s no reason at all why you should not take nice
Photographs. Photography is the best hobby without
exception.
It is not expensive. We have Cameras at all prices
from 5/-, 7/6, 10/6, 21/-. 25/-, 30/- up to £5O.
All the latest and best are here both in Cameras and
Photo-Supplies. Write now for a copy of our
Illustrated Catalogue, 350 pages— Free.
HARRINGTON
“IS?-
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE ST., iNiear G.P.0., SYDNEY
93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
BETTER LUCK NEXT
TIME.
“ Why didn't you call the baby
after me?"
“ We went as near it as we could, Uncle James.
We called it Jemima."
Some day, when there is a strong N.S.W.
Government (not one like the present, which puts
in all its time jumping away from its own shadow),
a drastic cleaning up will be applied to the Dis-
trict Court Bench. Almost without exception
(though Judge Murray may be mentioned as an
honorable example on the other side) the District
Court Judges are, when on the Bench, tetchy,
ill-tempered, and disregardful of their duties to
the public. Suitors and their counsel generally
get consideration in the Supreme Court and cour-
tesy in the High Court, but in the humble Dis-
trict Court they often have to put up with the
impatient discourtesy of a judge who is seemingly
soured, tired, and anxious to cut his work as short
as possible. An extraordinary example of Dis-
trict Court impatience was provided by Judge
Backhouse last week. Mr. Windeyer appeared
in a certain case, which was put third on the list
for hearing. The two cases at the head of the list
happened to fall through, and when at 10.15 Mr.
Windeyer’s case was called he was not there (and
did not appear until five minutes later). Mean-
while Judge Backhouse non-suited the plaintiff,
“as counsel was not in court.” No evidence was
heard, no law points taken. Since counsel was
absent (justifiably absent, under the circum-
stances), plaintiff was condemned to lose her case
and pay all costs. That cannot, in any sensible
community, be good law. Mr. Windeyer,
on his own behalf, intends to protest to the
Bar Council, and there should be some pro-
test to Parliament on behalf of the client.
Judge Backhouse’s methods as a Judge have been
often under question before. He is the gentle-
man who, as an acting Supreme Court Judge,
ensured the conviction of the Broken Hill strike
leaders by stating to the jury the possibility of
only a light punishment being inflicted. He is
also the Judge who applied the First Offenders
Act to Solicitor llofe, of the Butler divorce con-
spiracy.
* * * 9
Now that Jap sailors are swarming over
Melbourne like one of the seven plagues, the soft-
goods person eagerly displays combined Jap-
English legends remarking, “ Banzai for Our
Fourpenny Socks,” or “Smithers and Phipkins
Welcome the Gallant Little Brown Man to their
Great Sale of Braces and U. Wear.” Old
King Cole rejoiceth in the presence and in-
cidental pence of his beloved brown brethren, and
the grins of Cole’s smellful caged monkeys are re-
flected on the other side of the bars. On the day
of arrival one of the Japs walked out of a Swan-
ston-street shop calmly carrying a lump of bacon.
He was pursued by an indignant shopman. It
turned out that the brown man knew enough
English to read the ticket attached to the smoked
pig—“ 6d. per lb., take the piece ” —and he accord-
ingly took the piece, under the impression that
that particular mighty atom was a free sample.
* * * *
The Anglican Provincial Synod (Vic.) has
decided that all ministers of parishes within its
sphere of influence shall be known as rectors
rather than vicars or incumbents. The sinful
outside world had previously surmised that
whereas a rector was always a vicar, he amounted
to something more considerable than an incum-
bent, who sounds so beastly like an encumbrance ;
but it now appears that they are of equal rank,
like an alligator and a crocodile.
* * * *
There is no more homeless position in all
Sydney than that of the woman who has acci-
dentally lost her last train about 10.30 p.m., and
is forced to seek shelter in a hotel
for the night. Unless she has luggage,
she may strike twenty hotels in succes-
sion, and even her money and her
apparent respectability won’t get her a
room. The supercilious person in charge
says that the premises are full. The
spider may be spinning the cobweb of
utter loneliness across the office, and
among all the 40 bedrooms there may be
no sign of habitation except a pair of
muddy boots outside the door of No.
35|A, but the supercilious person says
the house is full just the same. The
tenth-rate beer-house, which assumes
cheerfully that the applicant isn’t
“respectable,” may take her in with a
leer; the high-class hotel won’t. Of
course, if she knew enough to go to the
nearest police-station and explain
things to the sergeant, she would get in
if the hotel register showed that there
was room—she w'ould either get in or a
four-storey hostelry worth £05,236 3s.
9gd. would get into great trouble. But
as a rule she doesn’t know. A recent
case that The Bulletin heard of was
that of a young literary woman who
lives in chambers. Her trouble was
simple, and looked humorous at first.
Her door slammed when she was out
on the landing. It was a spring lock,
and the key was inside, and at that
hour (about 10.30 p.m.) no locksmith
could be procured to force it open.
She had money about her, and
looked as respectable as any girl
could look, but the reception she re-
ceived at the first big caravanserai
to which she applied made her leave
off applying, and spend the night
on the cold stairs. If she had
known what to do she would have
brought a policeman, and he
would have made a hostelry
worth something like £98,122
19s. 2d, shudder for its
license ; but not knowing,
she camped in a cold draught
on the staircase.
Victoria is lining its
prisoners up for lectures, too.
The talks are monthly, on
literary and scientific subjects.
The audience isaddressed as “Gentle-
men,” thanked for its attendance, and
asked to pass a vote expressive of its gratitude to
the chairman.
“Jack Shay”:
A young police-
man gave me his
confidence re-
cently. “I am
full of the police,”
he said. “I am
trying to get into
the Fire Brigade.
Oh yes, the fire-
men have the best
of it. Paid better,
more liberty, no
lugging drunken
viragoes along the
street, and no
court work. Be-
sides, they can
knock about the
station in uniform
—a better rig than
ours and their
young lady friends
can come along
and yarn with
them. When a
fire is on it is
worse. The fire-
men in their brass
helmets get all the
applause— people Vi
call them heroes. A
We have to stop |
the crowd from \
hampering opera-
tions. ‘ Who yer
pushin?’ says a
woman to me at the
fire the other night.
‘ Why don’t yer go and
help the brave firemen
to put the fire out in-
stead of pushin’ women
about, yer big coward ?
Yer big enough.’ Lovely,
isn’t it ? The push don’t try
to kill the firemen, and they
haven’t got to wrestle with
mad drunks. Danger ! Why
there have been more policemen than
firemen killed in Sydney. Rather ! ”
The Rootes shooting case at Manly
(N.S.W.), in which the affectionate husband (who
was out of work) called on his wife (temporarily
reduced to earning her own living in a hotel), and
fatally shot her and himself, played manifest
havoc with a lot of people’s common sense. The
man, mortally wounded by a bullet through the
heart, fell on the floor, and was expeditiously
pinioned by a constable. He was immediately
released, however, and promptly died. One
account makes it appear that after he died he
“ was past human aid.” Some spectators say he
fell “in the throes of death,” but others maintain
that he slipped “on some bottles.” One man, a
popular entertainer, seems to have been the only
person who judiciously adjusted the limelight, and
he stands forth in the wild newspaper account,
with this par, all to himself :
A man named George King, who is engaged in popular
entertainments on the ocean beach, has stated to the
police that when he heard the shots he rushed into the
bar, picked up a flower-pot, and threw it at Rootes, who
was in the middle of the floor, and did not then appear as
if he was injured.
And even this tale is incomplete, for it doesn’t
clearly appear whether the flower-pot killed the
dead corpse or not.
N.Z. Times (M.L.) publishes this in its
correspondence columns:—
Girls and Fresh Air.
(To the Editor.)
Sir, —I have noted with pleasure the impartial manner
in which you publish from time to time correspondence
relating to various matters of public interest, and I trust
that you may see your way clear to give me space in
which to refer to a matter which I consider to be of vital
importance to Maoriland as a whole and to the youth of
the colony in particular. How do the mothers of young
girlS expect them to have good health when they are con-
tinually watched at night, and no chance is given them
to enjoy the fresh air ? The pernicious system of spying,
as indulged in by a number of parents, is also affecting
the nervous systems of a number of young girls, and it
does very little good in the long run.
The writer signs himself “ One of the Waiters” —
presumably one of the young men who waited at
the front gate for the girl to come out and get the
benefit of the fresh air. And, presumably, owing
to the pernicious spying system, the girl didn’t
come out.
* * * *
A nice point—which probably ought to be
discussed under “Business, Robbery, &c.”—has
been dragged out of the sea in S. Australia. The
question is : When you catch a fish (even if you
only catch it at Paulos Friedprawnolos’s) who
owns the innards ? It was this way: A boy fell
off a pier at the Adelaide Outer Harbor works,
and was partially recovered in instalments. Later
on, a shark was caught; and it was found that
the beast had made a recent meal off a suit of
boy’s clothes —alleged to be the Outer Harbor
boy’s clothes. Meantime, the shark-catcher began
to turn a penny by exhibiting the shark and con-
tents. The authorities (whoever they may be)
then tried to get the clothes so that the father
could identify them ; but the shark-catcher replied
that anybody, even the father, who wanted to see
the clothes must come and pay admission. What
would have happened in case of identification has
not transpired, though perhaps they thought of
arresting the shark for theft.
A POINT OF ETIQUETTE.
MISTRESS: “ Disgusting! Somebody has been
striking matches on this beautiful thing.”
MARTY “ Yes'm, it’s Master. ’E always docs it
when ’e comes ’ome.”
MISTRESS: “ It’s not a question of when but
where he strikes them on it .”
“ Snell ” : When will the literary girl with
humor and a seeing eye come to us from the ranks
of the “ generals,” and tell us all about the ser-
vant’s life and the lives of the families with whom
she has lived ? The reflection is called up by
an outburst overheard in a Melbourne railway
carriage the other evening. “Her husband's a
clergyman at Church,” said the flushed hire-
ling. “He gets big wages, and they’ve only got
a small family, and yet they’re that mean that me
and Sarah —the other girl—often sit hungry in
church, hearing the Rev. Bob preaching away like
old boots about lovin' charity and kindness to your
feller men. Look here, the missus will lock up
two strips of cold plum puddin’, and not good
plum puddin’ at that, for fear we should
eat it, and I’ve been in the house a
month and been hungry all the time. They’ve
had fifteen girls in twelve months, and her lady-
ship seems to think we oughtn’t to complain if she
starves us because they starve themselves. Two
mutton chops will be cooked for dinner, and never
more than four. The other day when visitors
called unexpected, the girls’ chops were sneaked
back again, and served up to the guests. The
girls went without. As for us, we try to- shame
the missus by going out and buying things and
eating them under her nose, but she only gets at
us for the sin of extravagance, and puts up the
Rev. Bob to mention the evil of over-eatin’ in the
prayers.” It seemed to me that Merely Mary
Ann must be a long-suffering soul to endure all
this.
* * * m
“Poor Hawk”: The Governor-General
came to Bourke, and Bourke girded up its wasted
loins, donned its best 4s. lid. hat, and gave its
bluchers an extra dose of neatsfoot oil. The G.-G.
was met at the railway platform by the leading
lights of the district, while lined up outside were
the school children, who sang “Gorsave” in
fearful discord, and the local band, which played
“Gorsave ” even worse than the children sang it.
At night a banquet was held in honor of the
event, and some of the speeches would have done
credit to the House of Commons. Here is a
sample
Yer Ludsh ipi —\Ve welcome yer to our little midst.
We, as loyle citizens of this little outback ’amlet, we
welcome yer as we would King Edward VII. himself ; and
orl we’re sorry for is that yer ludship’s missus isn’t
aboard, that our loyle wives and darters could do ’omage
and ’onors to ’er. We drink yer ’ealth, me lud, in
Bourke’s best —not whisky, or beer, or wine; but Mr.
’s best champadgnee. Long life to yer, me lud,
and all yer addykonks.
On Monday, alter the train had gone, Bourke
dropped back into its usual tiredness, and its
conscience smites it somewhat for the extra wear
and tear of the new 4s. lid. hat, and for the wasted
neatsfoot oil.
THE SPRING VALE NECROPOLIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A brochure has been sent round explaining the advan-
tages of the Spring Vale (Melbourne) Necropolis. To
bring death within the reach of all, special, private,
selected, and cheap graves have been prepared at a varied
scale of charges.
Though some are for a burial that casts colossal gloom,
And some are happy with a monumental mason’s tomb ;
Though some prefer the lonesome bush, and some the
raging sea,
A little crib at Spring Vale looks quite good enough for
me.
I like the sceneree
About that cemet’ree —
The Spring Vale sanatorium exactly fixes me.
With canopies and rockeries and nicely-painted fence,
Upon this model lodging-house they’ve spared no dashed
expense;
To suit all tastes they’ve fixed a scale in this abode of
bliss,
You’re lucky if you get a berth in their Necropolis.
However could you miss
A chance so rare as this,
A private grave, for twenty bob, in their Necropolis?
For special sites they’ve special rates that men of high
degree
May keep in death their adipose respectability.
The Fat Man sleeps in richer soil than men like Bill and
Jim.
“ Sixteen by sixteen ” (fifty quid) ’s the area for him.
His ashes won’t be blent
With those who owe him rent;
He rots in state, aloof from Socialistic detriment.
The soldier or the naval man, they set him up in style,
With muffled drums and loud salute and stately marching
file ;
A special charge has been composed for burying the
brave,
Like Nelson or like Wellington he has a hero’s grave.
When bands strike up “ Gor’ Save,”
And grand old banners wave
(P’raps the African marauder would prefer a Chinese
grave).
Though some cry for the lonesome bush, some for the
raging sea,
I guess this Spring Vale tombstone shop exactly fixes me.
According to your banking-book and weight of brass or
bricks,
In special junks of hallowed earth your graded dust doth
mix.
However could you miss
A noble chance like this ?
The graves are priced like fancy goods in this Necropolis.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


WftRMTN apd COMFORT.
NOTHING tends to a man’s comfort and safety more than a GOOD
OVERCOAT. Now is the moment to select one, before the
weather takes you unawares. My New OVERCOATS are most stylish,
and can be made in the following designs :
“ Raglan,”
“Cornwall,”
“ Derby.”
“PaddocK,”
“ Chesterfield, **
9V* Price JL3 3s.
R. C. HAGON,
Merchant
Tailor,
129 KING ST., SYDNEY
The disappearance of Preacher James of
Albany (W.A.), who is now alleged to have left
for. Canada under the name of Lee, with a
lady much younger than himself, looked
from the first like a carefully devised
vanishment; it also looked, on the whole, rather
too elaborate and there were weak spots m it.
James was a Methodist parson and 51 years of age
—both circumstances that might make any man
feel tired, and fill him with a sudden craving to go
whale-fishing or to set out to pursue the wild ass in
Persia. James started for Sydney on an Easter
holiday, and the story of the disappearance
divided itself into three fits :
(1) He reported in a letter that he had made the
acquaintance of Robert Hunter in the train, and was
careful to mention that Hunter had lost the use of his
right hand through writer's cramp.
(2) He reported that, owing to the hotels being full, he
had gone to share Hunter’s lodgings.
(3) Hunter wrote (with his left hand) from Suva (Fiji)
stating that Rev. James had fallen overboard while they
were boating on Sydney Harbor, and that he was still
overboard. Hunter had not informed the police, having
reasons for not running against that excellent but under-
paid institution, but he now communicated the facts, with
his left hand.
Apparently, it all hinged on Hunter having cramp
in his right hand. That accounted for 1 tunter (or
James or anybody else) writing a villainous scrawl
'of explanation with his left, hand—a scrawl that
couldn’t be identified as the work of anybody in
particular. The best kind of disguise in such
cases is to use the left hand ; it produces a consis-
tent scrawl, whereas an attempt to disguise the
ordinary writing done with the right hand is
generally a failure. And as long as the people
you are writing to know that the scrawl is done
with your left hand (the right one being disabled
by cramp) they don’t suspect the production of
being a disguise, nor do they wonder why a man
of education should perpetrate such an unspeak-
able fist.
Parson James seems to have provided himself
with money before he left. He is said to have
shaved off his beard, and got out of his clerical
garb at some stage of his holiday. He didn’t call on
any of his parsonical friends in Sydney. Neither
he nor Hunter left their names at the address he
gave. The meeting with Robert Hunter (who
had cramp in his right hand and so had to write
the letter of explanation with his left hand in a
fist which might be the production of anybody’s
left hand) was something of a coincidence ; Rev.
James is said to have had a parsonical friend
called Robert Hunter, and it might have been
better if the man with the disabled hand had been
named Bloggs. The body of the lost Rev. has
been assiduously fished for in Sydney harbor, but
so far it hasn’t been found (still a shark might
have got it). If Parson James proves to be dead,
despite all the appearances to the contrary, it is
certainly up to the law to find Robert Hunter and
ask him for an explanation—accompanied, per-
haps, with a deposit as a guarantee of good faith.
But if the rev. gentleman has simply revolted
against the monotony of life, and resolved to go to
Klondyke and see now the Polar bear is getting
on, it is difficult to altogether blame him. Life
is a dreadfully monotonous thing, and the most
sedate and elderly person is liable to be seized at
times with a fierce desire to go and personally
attack the rhinoceros in Sumatra, or wherever else
that animal may be found. The call of the wild
comes to all men at one time or another, and then
even a tame and gentle product of civilisation feels
an inclination to go forth and be primeval man
again—like Harold Hardraada, or Magnus Bare-
foot, or Olaf Coalscuttle, or any other rioter, or
pirate, or sea-king.
* * * *
The case of Knowles, the Palmerston
North (M.L.) wife-killer, seems, on more com-
plete information, to be directly traceable to
“ The Light of the World.” The ex-farm-burner
went with a friend to view that soul-stirring pro-
duction ; he looked at it fixedly, and then he
cleared the hall at two bounds, and ran swiftly
home as the fly crows, and demolished his wife
with a gun before she had time to ask him how
the picture had agreed with him. Apparently he
was a peaceful citizen till he saw the “Light,”
and then he immediately became a barking des-
perado. Which shows the strange effects that
may arise through a sudden rush of oil-painting to
the head—especially if a £lOOO oil-painting
rushes to a three-and-sixpenny head.
THE NEXT MORNING.
SORROWFUL ONE: “’Eavens! If I only had
thought I’d be as thirsty as this this morning
I’d ’are drank more last night.”
The law has been tying itself into hard
knots in Sydney over a “nurse” who did the
usual thing and was rewarded with six years’ im-
prisonment. Judge Fitzhardinge, who passed the
sentence, reserved some points of law for the Full
Court; and the Full Court upended the convic-
tion and the nurse fell out of gaol. Then the
High Court upended the Full Court’s decision;
and the Law Department concluded
that the lady shouldn’t have fallen
out, the Full Court having turned
the case wrong side up, so it
ordered her to be locked up again—
which incidentally inusthave given
his Honor Fitzhardinge some
pleasant moments, as the Full
Court had just been making sting-
ing remarks about his treatment
of another case. The ancient
nurse, who by this time was
badly bruised through being
poured backwards and for-
wards, next appealed on the
ground that, having been once
released, she was released for
good and all, and that the
High Court proceedings inter-
ested her in only an academic
manner of speaking—though
why the Full Court proceed-
ings shouldn’t have also in-
terested her in the same man-
ner of speaking wasn’t ex-
plained. Anyhow, the Full
Court decided that to all in-
tents and purposes she hadn't
been released at all, and that
she hadn’t been out of gaol,
and therefore there wasn’t
anything illegal in returning
her to gaol, seeing that in the
eye of the law she never had
been anywhere else. But just
at that point the law found
itself tied in another knot; the
woman had been sentenced to
six years’ imprisonment, and
for manslaughter, inN.S. Wales,
even an ancient nurse in a back
street can’t legally get more than
three years’ imprisonment, though she
can legally get six years’ penal servitude.
Whereupon the Full Court shut its unani-
mous eye and decided that the ancient
nurse should do six years’ penal servitude,
with the reservation that it shouldn’t be
penal servitude, which seems to be imprisonment
with more skilly in it than plain imprisonment.
And whether that is the end of the ancient nurse
out of the mean back street, Heaven and the old
stocking that Costs come out of only know.
* » » *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Nortlicote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
Thomas Brown, alias Anderson, learned at
the Warragul (Vic.) sessions recently the danger
of taking a man down for his boots. Near
Thomas there lived one Pestlin, who with great
trouble had made himself a pair of foot-coverings
without counterpart in the world. They were of
unique shapelessness and weighed about half a
ton. Thomas stole them, and none knew whither
they had gone, till Thomas walked one day to the
Drouin trucking-yards, and, cutting out a sheep,
slew it, and carried it (dropping its entrails by the
way) home to his camp. Pestlin’s boots, on
Thomas’s feet, left tracks like those of a devastating
giant. The police followed the huge indentations
in the earth to Thomas’s camp, and found mutton
bones, which Thomas in vain swore were those of
a large,rabbit. Pestlin, in his hut far off, heard
of the lagoon-like footprints, and knew that no
boots but his had made them. Coming to inquire,
Pestlin also found his coat in Thomas’s camp. So
Thomas, after getting nine months for the sheep,
got also 12 months for the boots and six months
for the coat —all cumulative. If Thomas grows
hungry for mutton again, he will travel bare-foot.
* » * *
Berwick (Vic.) has given up searching for
its lost boy—one of the unhappy Mason family.
Every Sunday for the past few weeks the whole
township turned out on horseback to hunt the
ranges for the youngster, who vanished in a gully
one Saturday night early in April. If this family
had lived 1000 years ago it would have been re-
garded as under a curse. The lost boy was tongue-
tied ; his eldest brother is blind ; and his 17-year-
old sister, in one of the Sunday search expeditions,
was thrown from her horse and killed.
’FRISCO—APRIL 18th, 1906.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man builds a city marvellous,
With spreading towers and walls ;
O’er all the land at sunset’s hour
Its shadow eastward falls.
The tired old Earth her shoulders shrugs—
A ruined heap is all.
VIC.
E.C.
THE MAN WITH THE HOE,
Millet’s famous picture, destroyed in the San Francisco earthquake. The following
almost equally celebrated verses on the picture are by Charles Edwin Markham.
WED by the weight of centimes he
M 3 leans
B'V Upon his hoe and gazes on the
ground.
The emptiness of ages in his face,
And on his back the burden of the world.
Who made him dead to rapture and despair,
A thing that grieves not and that never hopes,
Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox t
Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw l
Whose was the hand that slanted back this
brow l
Whose breath blew out the light within this
brain ?
Is this the thing that Lord God made and gate
To have dominion over sea and lawI;
To trace the stars and search the Heavens for
power ;
To feel the passion of Eternity l
Is this the dream He dreamed who shaped the
suns
And pillared the blue firmament ivith light ?
Down all the stretch of Hell to its last gidf
There is no shape more terrible than this — ■
More tongued with censure of the world's blind
greed —
More filled with signs and portents for the
soul —
More fraught with menace to the universe.
What gulfs between him arid the seraphim !
Slave of the wheel of labor, what to him
Are Plato and the swing of Pleiades l
What the long reaches of the peaks of song,
The rift of dawn, the reddening of the rose ?
Through this dread shape the suffering ages look ,
Time's tragedy is in that aching stoop ;
Through this dread shape humanity betrayed,
Plundered, profaned and disinherited,
Cries protest to the Judges of the World,
A protest that is also prophecy.
O masters, lords, and rulers in all lands,
Is this the handiwork you give to God,
This monstrous thing distorted and soul-
quenched 1
How will you ever straighten up this shape ;
Give back the upward looking and the light;
Rebuild in it the music and the dreams ;
Touch it again with immortality ;
Make right the immemorial infamies,
Perfidious wrongs, immedicable woes !■
O masters, lords, and rulers in all lands.
How will the Future reckon with this Man ?
How answer his brute question in that hour
When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world /
How will it be with kingdoms and with kings
With those who shape him to the thing he is —
When this dumb Terror shall reply to God
After the silence of the centuries ?
HEART DISEASE.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
“For five years my heart was so weak that my
life was just hanging by a thread. All this time
I was crippled with Rheumatism. The three best
doctors in Launceston could do nothing for me.
After they failed, eighteen boxes of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cured me for good. My case is a
downright miracle.”
_ That is the statement of Michael Clayton, who
lives at 9 Cypress St., off Elphin Rd., Launceston.
For 25 years he worked in the Waverley Woollen
Mills, and the facts of his case are well known to
Mr. Hogarth, one of the leading citizens of Laun-
ceston. Mr. Clayton himself has solemnly sworn
to the facts before Senator D. Storrer—and it goes
without saying that Senator Storrer would not
lend his name to a statement that was not true
in every detail.
“ It was in 1895 that I first felt the Rheumatism
in my shoulders,” said Mr. Clayton, going back
to the beginning of his illness. “It was a dull
gnawing pain that stiffened all my muscles. I
could not raise my arms to my head. Little by
little the pain worked down niy left side and
around my heart. My left arm was worst of all.
It was so swollen and sore that I could not button
my waistcoat. Many a night I did not get an
hour’s sleep, and my nerves were all unstrung.
Often I was sick on my stomach in the mornings.
I gradually lost weight and my whole health
went to pieces.
‘ One day when I was working in the factory, a
sudden smothering feeling came over me, and I
fell down in a half faint. When my mates found
me I was gasping for breath. They thought I was
dying from Heart Disease. After that, I never
knew when one of these attacks would come on.
Whenever my heart jumped or fluttered I was in
mortal dread. Day and night, I always had a
queer feeling round my heart. It was not exactly
a pain—it was just a stuffy choking feeling as if
the very breath were being crushed out of me. My
face used to flush, and then my head would swim
and my ears ring. A feeling of faintness would
come over me, and a cold sweat would stand out
on my face. Often I thought my last hour had
come.
“There are not three better doctors in the
whole of Tasmania than the three who treated me
all through this illness,” Mr. Clayton went on to
say. “ But they were not able to do me one atom
of good. When I was nearly mad with the
Rheumatism, they injected morphia into my veins
—but the pain was ten times worse afterwards.
And all this time my heart was getting weaker.
At last, one of the doctors found a lump on my
left side, just over my heart. Little by little it
grew and spread. I tackled the doctor, and he
told me I had Fatty Degeneration of the Heart.
When I asked him what that meant, he said that
the muscle of my heart was gradually turning into
fat. It was so soft that my heart might burst at
any time—for the fat might get so thick that my
heart would not have room to beat at all. From
that day on, I knew that I might drop dead any
moment.
“ The doctors tried to work the lump down by
rubbing it—but that only seemed to make it
spread. Then they tried to melt it with hot
flannels and oils—but that did no good either.
Every month I found it harder to breath. Often
I had to crawl home from the factory more dead
than alive. Sometimes I honestly wished that the
Heart Disease would put an end to all I was
suffering. The Rheumatism seemed to be all
through my system, eating into every joint and
muscle. The agony was something awful. My
face got all drawn and haggard with suffering.
I soon grew so helpless that I could not cut myself
a pipe of tobacco. At last I had to knock off work
altogether. For three months I was absolutely
crippled. The doctors could not even ease my
pain—so my daughter got me to try Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. She thought they might cure my
Rheumatism—but neither of us ever dreamed
that they would do my heart any good.
“At first I thought that Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills were going to fail like all the doctor’s
medicines,” Mr. Clayton added. “All I noticed
after the first box was that I had a grand appetite.
During the third box, I fancied ray Rheumatism
was a little easier—and before I finished the next
box I was sure of it. After the fifth box, I did
not want any more morphia. In a few weeks I
was able to button my own shirt and lace my boots.
Then I noticed that the lump around my heart
was going down. I could hardly believe my eyes.
Before long there wasn’t a sign of it left. I lost
that stuffy smothering feeling, and my heart began
to beat in a healthy way. It was a long uphill
fight—but, in the end, I was completely cured
with 18 boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They
actually saved my life. I can jump about like, a
boy now, and my heart is as sound as any man’s.
I have never had a pain or an ache since Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills cured me five years ago—so
that shows I am cured for good. My daughter
here will tell you that every word I speak is
Gospel Truth.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills work these wonderful cures,
after doctors and common medicines have failed, because
they actually make new blood. That one thing is all they
do—but they do it well. They don’t act on the bowels.
They don’t tinker with mere symptoms. They strike
right at the cause of disease in the blood, and so cure
indigestion, kidney and liver diseases, palpitation of the
heart, nervousness, neuralgia, rheumatism, sciatica,
partial paralysis, and the ailments that fill the lives of so
many women with misery. Do not take any pills without
the full name “ Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People ”
on the wrapper round the box. Sold by all chemists and
storekeepers, or sent post free by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
Medical advice given free.*


TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland Government Life Insurance
Department :
Added
Claims Provided to In-
and Sur- Ex- against De- surance
Revenue. renders, penses. preciation. Fund.
1895.. £386,012 £171,544 £50,462 £164,006
1896.. 394,985 166,369 55,019 £10,500 163,097
1897.. 398,121 205,193 59,164 133,764
1898.. 410,148 210,245 58,825 4,650 136,428
.1899.. 421,569 211,383 59,639 14,400 136,147
1900.. 423,700 219,993 61,431 142,276
1901.. 460,753 256,100 59,194 145,459
1902.. 451,348 271,268 59,895 22,783 97,402
1903.. 463,380 269,413 64,723 129,244
1904.. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153,522
1905.. 490,924 263,148 63,829 6,953 156,994
This State insurance office, whose policies are backed up
by the entire resources and credit of Maoriland, has had
another moderately prosperous year ; though if Maori-
landers stuck a little more closely to their State institu-
tion, and didn’t need so much pressing to join it, and
after they had joined it didn’t allow their policies to lapse
so often, there might be a considerable reduction in the
expense rate ; and that is a movement for which there is
room. On the basis of total income the outlay shows
up like this: —
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1896 ..£l3 18 7 per cent. 1901 ..£»2 16 11 per cent.
1897 .. 14 17 2 „ 1902 .. 13 5 5
1898 .. 14 610 „ 1903 .. 18 19 4
1899 .. 14 2 11 „ 1904 .. 12 11 8
1900 .. 14 10 0 „ | 1905 .. 13 0 0
The last five-year period certainly shows an improvement
on the first; but it is Maoriland’s own fault that there is
not a much larger improvement; and, anyhow, some im-
provement would naturally follow upon the accumulation
of cheaply-managed interest-bearing funds. Considering
the rather small proportion of new business that is being
gathered in, the expense rate is much higher than it
ought to be. Adopting an arbitrary rule, because
there is no other sort, and charging renewal premiums
with 7 per cent, for expenses, and single premiums and
consideration for annuities with 3 per cent., and then
charging all the balance of the expenses to new business,
it is found that the latter, yielding £21,414 in premiums,
cost £43,137 to secure ; that is, it cost 201 per cent, of
the new premiums to get new business. This is expen-
sive progress. The National Mutual, with funds now
slightly in excess of the Maoriland State Life Depart-
ment’s, got its new business at a cost of 130 per cent, of
premiums, reckoning on the same basis, and allowing for
re-insurances. The Australian Widows’ Fund, which was
pilloried recently on the score of expensive management,
shows (still on the same basis) 218 per cent, of new pre-
miums as the cost of new business ; and the difference
between 201 and 218 per cent, isn’t so great as to make
the comparison over-pleasant for the Maoriland office,
even though the latter’s high rate is to some extent due
to the larger taxes it has to pay.
The Maoriland Life Department cannot expect
and need not desire any rapid growth ; for one thing- it
isn’t allowed to scour the earth for business ; for another,
bigness isn’t goodness. But if it doesn’t scour the eartli
for business—if it keeps itself within Maoriland—its
expense rate ought to be small to correspond. It should
be Mile to write quite as much new business as it is doing
without going to one-third the expense, relying mainly
upon the good sense of Maorilanders to take an interest
in a concern which has all Maoriland for its guarantee.
Instead, it seems that it has to battle for business just
like any concern that has little except good intentions
at the back of it. The Maoriland State office, backed up
as it is, ought to get thousands of pounds’ worth
of business from democratic Maoriland because it is
what it is, just as the A.M.P. has done in Australia ;
and its expense rate ought to be as low as the A.M.P.’s or
lower. Instead of that, considering the proportion of its
new business, it has one of the highest expense rates,
which is a pretty severe reflection on Maoriland’s alleged
democratic principles.
The lapse rate is also not as satisfactory as it
should be in a country of such prosperity as Maoriland.
Last year 3116 policies were taken out, and 1048 lapsed,
0r33’6 per cent.; and, in amount, the policies taken out
and lapsed bore exactly the same relation. Now, in the
A.M.P. the lapsed policies for 1904 amounted to only 14'9
per cent, of the new policies. Taking lapsed and sur-
rendered policies together, the proportion in the A.M.P.
was 26’3 per cent., and in the Maoriland office 47'7 per
cent. All the lapsed Maoriland policies carried among
them only £8272 of reversionary bonuses ; so they were,
on the whole, new policies ; and, in view of the heavy
cost of getting new business, this large percentage of
lapses is a further matter for regret. Democratic
Maoriland is not only not doing its full duty to the State
office by joining it; it to a very great extent fails in its
duty even after it has joined it. Then no doubt after it
has had to be pursued at great expense, first for a policy
and then for the premiums, it wonders why the bonuses
are not three times as big.
In the matter of interest earnings the Maoriland
Life Office stands well:
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £4 8 3 per cent. I 1903 .. £4 611 per cent.
1901 ..4 7 8 „ 1904 .. 4 610 „
1902 .. 47 5 „ 1 1905 .. 48 11 „
The funds include an investment fluctuation reserve,
built up as shown in the first table above ; from this
reserve amounts are written off from time to time. The
reserve now stands at £63,808. The disposition of the
assets in this and two Australian offices is shown next: —
Colonial Maoriland
A.M.P. Mutual. State.
Public Securities .. 24 - 9 p.c. 10'7 p.c. 20'9 p.c.
Mortgages .. .. 45'9 ~ 43’7 ~ 54'3 ~
Policy Loans .. 20 - 8 „ B'6 ~ 17’3 „
Other Loans .. 2’l „
Freeholds, &c. .. 4'2 ~ 26'6 ~ 3T ~
Cash, &c., .. .. 2T ~ 10'4 ~ 4'4 ~
The proportion of mortgages has slightly advanced during
the year ; the proportion of public securities has shrunk,
though the amount is hardly altered. The change has
meant higher earnings—probably also slightly less se-
curity. But, as before remarked, so far as the policy-
holder is concerned, all Maoriland stands behind the
office.
* * * *
There is such a scramble for the business under
the new Workmen’s Compensation Act in Queensland
that one would think there were millions in it. This is a
list of co.’s which did not touch this class of business
until lately, but are rushing after it now : North Queens-
land Accident Insurance (new co.); New Zealand Fire In-
surance (which has taken over the N.Z. Accident Insur-
ance Co.); South British, Victoria, Standard (M.L.), and
Australian Alliance. The Colonial Mutual was already
in the field, along with the Ocean and three other foreign
offices ; and it is understood the Yorkshire Life and Acci-
dent, the Alliance, and the London and Lancashire are
“ making inquiries.” Already there is cutting and slash-
ing, and it looks as though there will be a repetition of
the experience of British offices, which made losses whole-
sale in the same sort of fight after the same sort of law
was passed in England.
Excuse Insufficient! If you deny yourself the
opportunity we are gladly offering you to choose what you
will, and most desire in the way of possessing a handsome
solid gold hall marked albert, or a reliable ever gold
watch, or a good signet or diamond ring, or a gem-set
dress or engagement ring, or a choice chain or cable
bangle, or a diamond pendant, brooch, or any other
trinket, gem or jewel of treasure and value. Excuse
insufficient! when you can now obtain any one of these
or other articles on the simple and popular plan adopted
by the (London Times) plan of easy monthly payments.
Write or call for illustrated catalogue and terms. British
Imperial Goldsmiths, 65 Pitt-street, (corner of Bridge-
street), Sydney.*
Swan Brewery Co. (Perth and Melbourne)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
jg &£>£,£
Mar., ’OO 15,971 16 p.c. = 6,087 3517 6,367 51,482
Sept.,’oo 16,861 20 „ „ 7,609 2579 6,673 58,155
Mar., ’Ol 17,031 20 „ „ 7,609 1547 7,875 66,030
Sept.,’ol 15,092 24 „ „ 9,131 1345 4,616 70,646
Mar., ’O2 20,483 24 „ „ 9,131 554 10,798 81,444
Sept.,’o2 15,144 24 „ „ 9,131 617 5,396 86,840
Mar., ’O3 23,660 32 „ ~ 12,174 308 11,178 98,018
Premiums on new share issue 2,275 100,293
Sept., ’O3 14,740 24 „ „ 12,160 264 2,316 102,609
Premiums on new share issue 12,834 115,443
Mar., ’O4 29,717 32 „ „ 16,213 346 13,158 128,601
Premiums on new share issue 5,265 133,866
Sent ’O4/ 19 > 571 24 >• ..12,174 326 7,0711 ~0 9a7
9 ’’ 4 \ Securities written up.. .. 1,350 jl 4 2>287
Mar., ’O5 24,706 32 „ „ 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
Sept.,’os 19,663 24 „ ~ 12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’O6 24,383 32 „ „ 16,232 186 7,965 165,710
As usual the co. offers some striking figures. Net profit
works out at £9 6s. 9d. per cent, on capital and reserves.
One large question, no doubt, remains to be answered—
though these profits are supposed to be net, is enough
written off for wear and tear ? Certainly, besides the in-
significant amounts shown above, profit and loss is directly
charged with £lB7B for depreciation of plant, &c. Even
that looks small; still plant which cost £64,918 has now
been reduced in book value to £33,716. The items that
may mean trouble by-and-bye are—Freehold brewery
lands and buildings, £69,798"; hotels, £154,040; lease-
holds, £1853 ; total £225,691, all at cost. In 1900 the hotels
stood in at £16,627 ; so except for that small proportion,
the purchases have been made during the past six years—
that is, apparently, since the big jump took place in Wes-
tralian values. The freehold rents show a return of £6BOl
(gross, no doubt); and on the average holding of hotel pro-
perties, that means almost exactly 9 per cent. On that
return it certainly would not be argued this side of Aus-
tralia that the property was over-valued ; still Perth has
its own conditions. But this looks certain : if this pro-
perty keeps its value, then the rental value will fall, and
with it the profits ; it returns 9 per cent, now because the
future capital value is uncertain. Therefore, the co. is
going to lose either some of its reserves or some of its
earnings.
* * * *
The Equitable Permanent Benefit, Build-
ing, Land and Savings Institution (Sydney):—
Dividends ; Paid
Profits, up shares, 9 p.c. ; Written Re-
Mar., Contiib., 8 p.c. Off. serves.
1897.. No information supplied £467 .. £27,587
1898.. „ „ „ 728 .. 27,313
1899.. £7BlO .. £6363 .. 421. .. 28,339
1900.. No information supplied 317 .. 26,785
1901.. 7556 .. 6373 ... 1286 .. 26,682
1902.. 8431 .. 6338 .. 522 .. 28,253
1903.. 8466 (12 p.c.) 8451 .. 210 .. 28,058
1904.. 8966 .. 6338 .. 1053 .. 29,633
1905.. 9086 .. 6338 .. 30 .. 32,351
1906.. 9555 (12 p.c.) 8451 .. 687 .. 32,768
All the shares have been for some time past paid up. The
extra dividend for the year is a triennial distribution, in
which borrowers also share ; their draw (£344) has in the
foregoing been deducted from the year’s profits, which
even then show £8 11s. 9d. per cent, on shareholders’
funds, after writing £687 off contingency reserve. Prac-
tically, therefore, the co. is paying shareholders a steady
10 per cent, per annum. But the co.’s risks are growing
steadily, too. Consider the growth of deposits, all repre-
sented by mortgages:—
A9Ol .. £93,553 1904 .. £127,476
1902 .. 94,338 1905 .. 138,211
1903 .. 108,277 1906 .. 152,350
At March 31st, 1900, the mortgages stood at £161,045 ;
six years later, at £227,390, an increase of £66,345.
That is to say, the co. has lent another £66,345 on
securities that are liable to slump ; yet out of current
profits only £5983 has been put aside to provide for the
slump, and even that £5983 is in the same sort of securi-
ties. So far as the depositors are concerned, though
their loans have increased so fast, the position is still
quite comfortable ; all these non-liquid securities, which
are yielding such a large return, could fall no less than 47
per cent, in value before the shareholders’ funds would
be wiped out.
* * * »
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston): —
Dividend and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1900.. £397 5 per cent. =£262 £135 £1167
Mar., 1901.. 760 5 „ „ 315 445 1612
Sept., 1901.. 523 6 „ „ 315 208 1820
Mar., 1902.. 465 6 ~ ~ 315 150 1970
Sept., 1902.. 626 6 ~ ~ 315 311 2281
Mar., 1903.. 510 6 „ ~ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903.. 470 6 „ „ 315 155 2631
Mar., 1904.. 815 6 „ „ 315 500 3131
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 „ ~ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905.. 696 6 „ ~ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905.. 1148 6 „ „ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906.. 1042 8 „ „ 420 620 5317
There is nothing to explain the surprising jump in profits
during the past year. It is possible that this co. takes
credit for the whole of the corpus commission on an
estate when it comes in, leaving the annual commission
to meet subsequent costs, for which it is some-
times inadequate. A trustee co. may in such a
case find itself in the end carrying on business at a dead
loss ; and then the interests of clients are liable to suffer
through the cutting down of expenses—which would
mostly mean the employment of cheap and inefficient
officers. When, therefore, a trustee co.’s profits jump
about in this surprising manner, it falls under suspicion
—not only its stock as an investment, but the concern
itself as a trustee. In the end it may have to be made
illegal for a trustee co. to accept corpus commissions at
all, such an uncertain influence are they liable to have.
This co.’s funds are about equally divided between public
securities and mortgages; the interest earnings are
lumped with commissions, and that further clouds the
situation. Nobody should have anything to do with such
a co., either as investor or client, until he has more infor-
mation than the published accounts give. The trouble
about information furnished otherwise is that it isn’t
subject to public criticism, and usually carries no respon-
sibility.
* * * *
lllawarra District (N.S.W.) Building Society
has now a capital of £9495, on which in the past year (to
March 31st) it made a profit of £706. Of this, the 6 p.c.
dividend credited to “ investors ” absorbed £517, leaving
£lB9 to add to the previous reserves of £l6OO. The ad-
vances brought in just 9 p.c., so there doesn’t appear to be
many “stiff” ones in that lot. And, anyhow, these se-
curities could slump 17 p.c. and still be covered by re-
serves, leaving the capital intact. The little society is
strong for two reasons—it works on its own money, so
that it hasn’t to provide for the slumping of securities
held against loans of borrowed money ; it keeps its ex-
penses down to a modest £250 a year, and sc far as the
evidence available shows, puts a decent amount by in case
of accidtnt.
•* * * *
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co..
the Commonwealth’s biggest and most profitable copper-
miner—taking up the parable fiom the amalgamation
with the North Lyell, prior to which £996,574 had been
paid in dividends: —
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
Reserves.
Mar., 1904.. 115,172 Nil 113,124
Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12} p.c. = £78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12} „ „ 78,750 £8764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12} „ „ 78,750 9021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 „ ~126,000 8713 485,383
But they are not true reserves that are shown above—
they practically never are in connection with a mining
co. At the most they are a fund for the return of
capital when the mine is played out, and the original
assets have disappeared. Meantime the disappearing
mine remains in the balance-sheet at original cost. But
Mt. Lyell differs from most mining co.’s in one important
respect: its so-called reserves have not been sunk in non-
liquid assets—plant and such like. On the contrary, its
surplus of liquid assets over current liabilities is £438,989,
even reckoning' the debentures in among the current
liabilities. As to those 5 per cent, debentures, which
were part of the North Lyell’s burden, very little shifting
has been done during the half-year—which, presumably,
hasn’t been the co.’s fault. From the outset the move-
ment has been :
Debentures Retired Special
Outstanding. During Term. Reserve.
Aug., 1903 .. £140,000
Mar., 1904 .. 120,000 £20,000 £lOOO
Sept., 1904 .. 97,750 22,250 1556
Mar., 1905 .. 89,760 7,990 1899
Sept., 1905 .. 78,420 11,340 1553
Mar., 1906 .. 76,720 1,700 1469
This is flattering to a mining co., anyhow ; it cost it £1784
to buy back £l7OO worth of its 5 per cent, debentures.
Mt. Lyell expenses are moving up—in all
branches except converting (Bessemerising), where
economies are being gradually developed. A comparison
for three half-years :
Mar., 1905. Sept., 1905. Mar., 1906.
s. d. s. d. s. d.
Mining, &c. .. 4 11'91 5 I'B9 5 3'82
Smelting .. 6 5T3 6 7T5 6 9'98
Converting .. 1 7'35 1 6TO 1 5‘25
Total costs 13 0'39 13 3'14 13 7'05
This, of course, is per ton of ore ; including metal-bearing
fluxes, 214,870 tons were handled in the six months. The
extra cost, compared with previous half-year, amounted,
however, to only £3500. Values, which in the previous
year fell away, recovered in the last half-year, and now
reach the average that has prevailed since the present co.
started. So, though the outputs of ore were practically
identical (214,870 tons last half-year against 214,345 tons
the previous half), the outputs of metal varied this way :
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Sept.,’os.. 4253 tons 365,4400 z. 12,4250 z.
Mar., ’06.. 4565 „ 374,762,, 12,342,,
Inc. 312 tons Inc. 9,3220 z. Dec. 83oz.
The directors do not quote average price for copper for
their half-year. But it can be figured out that approxi-
mately £20,750 of last half-year’s increased profit was due
to the larger metal output, and about £45,000 to the
better prices. The profit was, as shown, £267,795, or at
the rate of £5B 13s. 3d. per ton of copper—which is an
amazing return, even keeping in mind the silver and gold.
From its smelting work Moonta and Wallaroo Co. was
happy enough with a profit of £lllBs. 9d. per ton for its
last year ; in fact, Moonta by itself showed only £7 7s.
lid. But then Moonta and Wallaroo have no silver and
gold to pay most of the charges. And how much of the
£58135. 3d. wouldn’t Mt. Lyell shareholders willingly
forego in return for the knowledge (if they could get it)
that their mine will be going strong 45 years after its
birth, as Wallaroo and Moonta are ?
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 Co., mining silver.
lead, and zinc :
Ore Value.
Treated, ——■* Divid-
Tons. Silver. Lead. Loss. ends.
Sept., 1901 81,852 14'830z. 14'47p.c. £129 £5,000
Profit.
Mar., 1902 42,847 14’7 „ 15-31 „ 5,386 Nil
Sept., 1902 42,825 16'44 „ 17'89 „ 720
Mar., 1903 50,279 14-01 „ 16T3 „ 1,509
Loss.
Sept., 1903 49,778 14-54 „ 16-39 „ 1,777 „
Profit.
Mar., 1904 69,777 13-8 „ 15'2 „ 12,680
Sept., 1904 70,643 1315,, 14‘8 „ 11,090 „
Mar., 1905 59,687 14-13,, 14-02 „ 20,438 „
ions-/ 79 ’ 073 14-1 .» 15'I „ 41,3761 mn
Sept., 1905 | Sale Qf stored by-products 72,964 / 1 5 > 000
Mar., 1906 72,364 14'Ooz. 13'5 p.c. 46,804 60,000
Write-off £B7lO for depreciation of plant, and get £38,094
net. At 925. 6d. per share, this is at the rate of 16} per
cent, per annum—six years’ purchase, irrespective of any
profits that may come out of the sale of tailings to be
treated for zinc. And Block 10 will be able to sell its
tailings longer than almost any other Broken Hill co.—
just as it was able to sell tens of thousands of tons years
before any others got in the business. For the idea that
this is quite a new source of profit is all wrong, though it
has been of fine service to the crowd that has been boom-
ing Barrier stocks for 12 months past. Certainly, owing
to the high price of spelter, tailings dumps, that were not.
looked at till lately, have been put under option now, and
some have been sold outright. Block 10 itself lately sold
100,000 tons to the Gilles Ore Concentration Syndicate at
6s. per ton ; though this sale does not come into the ac-
counts just issued. But as against probable additions to
profits from the sale of zinc-bearing tailings, the much
more certain fall in the value of silver and lead must
be placed. Lead averaged £l6 os. 3d. per ton last half-
year ; in the previous half-year, £l3 Bs. In that previous
half-year the profit was at the rate of £5 6s. 3d. per ton
of lead in the concentrates ; in the past half-year it was
£7 os. 6d. per ton. In other words, though lead has
averaged £2 12s. 3d. per ton more, the profit has only
been £1 14s. 3d. per ton more ; which means that costs
of mining and extraction have been greater and (pro-
bably) that the foreign ore-buyers upon whom this co.
depends have grabbed a good part of the extra profit. As
a matter of fact, the past half-year’s increased profit on
the basis of a ton of lead should have amounted to con-
siderably more than the rise in lead, because silver
has gone up too ; and that, instead of being more,
it was considerably less isn’t a matter for shareholders
to feel very glad about. Approximately the matter can
be summed up this way : Given the present quality of
ore and present costs, with silver at 2s. sfd. and lead at
£l6, the co. can make £46,800 per half-year out of silver
and lead. Every movement of £1 per ton in lead means
about £6500 per half-year in profits ; every penny move
in silver means £1350. There remain after that the
future of zinc and possible economies in treatment to
gamble on. But past experience of sulphides has shown
that economies and improvements are counterbalanced
by the change for the worse in the character of the ore.
* * * *
The Bast Greta Coal Mining Co. (N.S.W.)
Writ- To p
Profits. Dividends. ten Re- lte '
Off. serves. serves ’
Sept.,’o4.. 10 p.c. =£5703 £3OOO £12,952
Mar,, ’05..£8053 10 „ „ 6250 3000 11,755
Sept.,’os.. 8427 5 „ „ 3185 2000 £3242 14,997
Mar., ’06.. 3528 5 ~ „ 3554 1000 13,971
Six months ago the directors recommended the usual 10
per cent, dividend ; but before the meeting was held the
co.’s Stanford-Merthyr mine had struck disaster, and only
5 per cent, was paid. The past half-year’s figures show
more of the consequences ; but all recent tests of the fire
area have been satisfactory, and there is probably
no fire at all left now. The co., besides its mines",
has a railway with extensive coal-hauling contracts,
some of them new. Its capital is now £150,000,
all shares paid; debts to the bank and public
total £7321, and besides the East Greta (freehold)
and Stanford-Merthyr (leasehold) mines and railway
and plant (£155,227), it has liquid assets (cash and sundry
debtors) amounting to £20,619. Even before the disaster,
it wasn’t quite earning its 10 per cent, dividend in addi-
tion to the amount written off ; and as it takes £6OOO to
write off 8 per cent, per annum from plant alone, the
amount written off was probably not a bit extravagant.
The 10 per cent, dividend appears, therefore, to have been
excessive. When work is resumed in Stanford-Merthyr,
the co. should, however, with new machinery and new
contracts, make larger profits than before; and, of
course, it needs to, for £25,000 of capital has been got in
during the past 12 months.
* * * *
Figures that follow show, more or less, the pro-
gress of the Balmain Co-operative Society, Ltd., the most
vigorous and progressive of the purely co-operative
N.S.W. concerns outside the mining centres. The pub-
lished accounts are complicated, and what many of the
figures mean can be little more than guessed at; and, to
make matters worse, the form of the published accounts
has been frequently altered. If the society wants it
members to understand the position, it had better lose no
time in calling in a consulting accountant, with a view to
simplifying matters, and reducing possibilities of error
and other things. As nearly as the matter can be made
out after a weary three hours and more spent on trying
to make figures tally that won’t tally, the accounts, put-
ting the results by half-years, show up in this way :
Dividends Writ-
(sp.e.)& ten Re-
Capital; Profit. Bonus. Off. serves.
Sept., 1902.. £291 £ll4 £B7 £2O £7
March, 1903.. 440 185 136 24 32
Sept., 1903.. 626 236 180 28 60
March, 1904.. 1145 326 220 32 134
Sept., 1904.. 1492 370 298 57 149
March, 1905 .. 2173 462 406 54 151
Sept., 1905.. 2502 582 524 57 152
March, 1906 .. 2947 736 645 68 175
As may be judged from the foregoing, hardly any of the
interest (dividend) or bonus on purchases is drawn in
cash, most of it being transferred to capital, whereupon
it becomes entitled to 5 per cent.; and 5 per cent, com-
pound interest, additions made quarterly, isn’t an invest-
ment that happens every day. But the committee may
pay out any member who isn’t buying as much at the
society’s stores as it thinks he ought to; and that’s a
handicap on the thrifty capitalist who can crowd through
for a fortnight on three loaves of bread and a sardine.
Fines and some other trifles apparently don’t go through
profit and loss account, but are used to directly write
down stock and property ; with these small additions
the allowance for depreciation amounts to about a liberal
10 per cent, per annum. No progress worth mentioning
is being made in the matter of reserves. Reserves don’t
carry any 5 per cent; compound interest. But they are
mighty handy things to have about the premises for all
that. The society has few debts—a total of £176, in-
cluding a few small deposits.
• * * *
Owners of the Paringa, Kalgoorlie, after about
a dozen years of fruitless struggle, have made up their
mind that the thing is a frost. To try and save the
situation, the board has decided to acquire the Toora tin
mines in Victoria, which, at any rate, will give directors
their fees for another year or two. The Toora tin mines,
which, up to now, have hidden themselves mar-
vellously, appear to be a wonderful property. 8., M. and
00. sent an outsider to report on them. He found 20,000,000
tons of alluvial tin gravel worth lOd. per cubic yard,
which could be treated at a cost of 2}d. per yard, and would
leave a profit of 7}d. per yard, with tin at £l5O
per ton. The vendors are to receive £2OOO in cash
and 38,000 shares in a co. of 80,000 shares, £1
each. The Paringa co. has to pay the vendors £2OOO
in cash and to supply £20,000 working capital, for
which it will get the remaining 42,000 shares. 8., M. and
Co.’s borrowed expert says the co. will make an annual
profit for the next 20 years of £312,500 by erecting a
plant costing £15,000. Victorians must be slower than
the W.A. ’Groper if such a proposition has lain dormant
all these years. One query is: Why did 8., M. and Co. not
employ one of their own experts to sample the shows ?
Another query is : What sort of a proposition is it that
figures on tin "at £l5O per ton, when before last year it
hadn’t averaged that price for half a century ? Ten years
ago it averaged £59 9s. lid., which is some way off £l5O.
* * * *
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, is shortly to be the
leading mine of W.A. Ridgway’s slimes plant has proved
a success ; it will supersede filter presses, and, it is
stated, will make a difference of about ss. per ton—in
lower costs and better extraction. The plant is auto-
matic ; the pulp is sucked up, and, after being washed, is
discharged by air pressure. One man can look after a
dozen machines. Each machine can treat 50 tons daily,
and already 10 machines are practically completed by
Bennet and Co. There are 600,000 tons of residues now on
the dump.
* * * *
Some fair returns have been coming from the
patchy Murchison (W.A.). Peak Hill l and the Horseshoe
are both in a bad way. and Abbott’s is nearly dead.
Twelve or 13 years ago, Menzies, then connected with
Star of the East, predicted things of Abbott’s and a good
deal of capital went there ;• but only three or four satis-
factory crushings were got. Stampers can’t talk half as
glowingly as experts. At Meekatharra soz. and 6oz. crush-
ings are the average from the Fenian and the Marmont.
About 4000 gallons of fresh water per day have been tapped
in the North Commodore, and this will keep the State bat-
tery going. A dam like that at Menzies is needed. Bottom
and sides are faced with Trinidad aspbaltum, and it
holds. To give small parties a show, 200-ton
parcels will be the limit at the State battery
in future instead of 400 tons. At Cue the Duke
of York asked for 12 months’ exemption, and the
Warden actually granted six. Out at Black Range
crushings average up to 25dwt„ and prospects are
brightening. Understood Government will propose next
session to extend the Mount Magnet railway to Black
Range, about 100 miles. Morning Star, run by Joe
Bryant for the last 10 years in the interests of a Ballarat
co., keeps pegging away. Averages about Bdwt., which
pays and leaves a snack over.
• * * •
The high price of tin is giving Pilbarra (W. A.)
district a lift. About 200 men are there, and doing as
well as want of water will let them. At Wodgina there
are some likely-looking shows, on which the Government
geologist has just reported hopefully. An amalgamation
of 160 acres is under option to a Melbourne syndicate,
which is sending up a man. Option expires in July. But
it will have to be something extra to make Melbourne
bite. Outside finicking dredging shows the public will
take no interest in tin in spite of its price. Randolph
Bedford took a N.Q. tin claim down to the south
recently ; but he has gone back and there isn’t any news
of a float. The one biggish thing that the public did bite
at —on the strength mostly of John Moffatt’s name—was
Dalziell’s ; and, though that may make profits when the
mill Mr. Moffatt is leisurely putting up is ready, still it
hasn’t developed up to expectations.
-t * * *
East Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), floated on the
strength of its proximity to the Great Fingall, still
produces next to nothing but assays. At a depth of
413 ft. a mixed-up ore body was passed through in the
main shaft which was said to assay 3oz. per ton
for a width of 3ft. The shaft was continued to
527 ft., and crosscuts at 500 ft. showed that the
reef was absolutely worthless. Driving at 500 ft.
has been continued for some time, but nothing
of any value has been located so far. This mine is to the
east of the Great Fingall, and has the Trenton and Kinsella
to the south, and the Murchison Associated to the north.
The latter mine has started crosscutting at 800 ft., and,
so far, has got nothing of any value. This mine is said to
be working on the Great Fingall reef; the yarn may or
may not be true, but, as the Fingall shoot cuts off going
north, the fact of having the reef is of little consequence.
» * * *
Mt. Monger (W.A.), about 30 miles from Kal-
goorlie, is the next district likely to be heard of. A large
number of reefs and leaders running from a few inches
up to 6ft. have been exploited, but they are valueless
under existing conditions. The Firewood Co., which has
a concession to bring in firewood and mining timber, is
prepared to lay the necessary nine miles of line, but the
terms are not acceptable. If this field were opened, a
good many men would get employment at once.
# * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 has made a profit of
£17,594 in six months ; but of that amount £B6OO (less
probably £9OO, being proportion of management ex-
penses) has come from carbonates ; and there is, so far as
is known, only 5600 tons more of this ore available in the
mine, which at present prices might give a profit of
£lO,OOO altogether. Practically, therefore, Block 14 can
only be valued as a sulphide mine. Apart from car-
bonates, the half-year’s profit was just under £lO,OOO.
The market value of the mine is £280,000. From this
deduct £28,364, the surplus of liquid assets, and £lO,OOO,
profits on carbonates in the mine, and the half-yearly
profit of £lO,OOO shows a return on the balance of just
over 8 per cent, per annum—and there is only about 64
years’ ore in sight! And it is no use going on perpetually
whispering “ Zinc ” ; for in this case more than half the
profits already come from zinc, and not all of it treated
in this half-year either. Look at it another way. The
profit per ton of sulphides was just over 6s. Allow a
shilling for improvements, and make it 7s. The best
price Block 14 can get for zinc tailings is 3s. 6d.=less
than 2s. 9d. per ton of ore. Total (at 2s. 9d. for
the zinc), 9s. 9d. Then 5600 tons carbonates at £2
profit=£ll,2oo; 200,000 tons (official estimate)of sulphides
at 9s. 9d. profit=£97,soo; or for the whole mine £108,700.
Yet at 31s. for ordinary and 255. for pref. shares, the mine
is valued at £280,000, or 260 per cent, above what looks like
the real present value. No douht it will be argued, as
usual, that (1) there are great possibilities in zinc treat-
ment ; (2) more ore may be found ; (3) the lead plant is
being remodelled. True ; and in reply—(l) the great zinc
possibilities are heavily discounted by the sales this co.


Three Friends
ď
The Best
Tobacco
on
Earth.
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St., Sydney
177 Oxford St., Sydney
*
9
V'V-
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent.
has made ahead ; (2) :ss ore may be found, and of poorer
o-rade • (3) most important of all, lead, zinc and silver will
certainly not maintain their recent prices, and, anyhow,
in the foregoing a fair allowance has been made for im-
provements in lead-concentration.
B.H. Block 14 does some interesting juggling
with figures in its last published accounts. Like most
mining co.’s it has not written off nearly enough for wear
and tear of plant; in other words, often when it has paid
a dividend (which hasn’t been often of late years) it has
to some extent paid it out of capital—the capital that
was put into plant. The co. therefore found itself with
plant, &c., valued in the accounts published in November
last at £97,006. Most of this value has long since disap-
peared ; the plant has been worn out, and the wear and
tear has not been written off, or the machinery has been
found unsuitable. But ingenious directors can easily get
over a little thing like that. They now write the mine
up by £86,221 (from £57,000 to £143,221), and that allows
them to write the plant down by £86,221. It is a new
way of paying old debts ; and everybody feels happy and
virtuous—till to-morrow. Even then they may feel vir-
tuous ; but some of them (who bought in at 315.) won’t
feel happy.
* -K * *
Broken Hill Junction North, the mine that is
always going to do things, made a loss last half-year of
£2OBl. Excluding fire-fighting and other non-recurring-
expenses, a profit of £952 was shown —assuming that
enough was written off for depreciation, which is very
doubtful. And lead averaged £l6 Os. 3d., and silver
2s. s|d. for the, half-year. Allowing that costs ought to
be reduced, and extraction improved, the results, in the
face of the abnormal price of metals, are extremely disap-
pointing. The best feature in the accounts just issued
is the disclosed surplus of £33,660 of liquid assets over
current liabilities. Of course, most of that is from the
recent sale of a block of shares.
A few months ago there was a curious
struggle between Broken Hill shareholders in Junc-
tion North and the Melbourne crowd. Former,
with Sydney’ and Adelaide help, got control
of a majority of shares, and prepared to shift
the management to Broken Hill. But a majority of
shareholders was also needed. The usual thing happened
—dummy shareholders were created. But the B.H.
shareholders didn’t play their cards well enough ; the
Melbourne crowd, with the rim of the office, smelt a rat,
and there was a sudden increase in the number of share-
holders there too; and so, the B.H. shareholders being-
pipped on the post, the control remained in Melbourne.
* * * *
Another movement underground in the Central ,
mine (the Sulphide Corporation’s), and for the comfort of
shareholders it is announced—“ It is nothing fresh. The
movement in this mine is almost constant, and all that
has happened is that it was rather more energetic than
usuaL” : Precisely. And that’s one reason why the
ordinary-share holders (Australian mostly) get no divi-
dends. But the. debenture-holders and the pref.-share
holders (whose name is mostly J. Bull) are all right. A
big new mill is just going- up —for which ordinary shares
will have to pay, as usual.
* * * *
A Barrier statistician has counted 117 plans
for the extinguishing of fires in mines.
* * * *
Homeward Bound, Wyalong (N.S.W.), mostly
owned in Sydney, has the tired feeling again. Some
weeks back, preliminary arrangements were made to
erect machinery. But it is said now that the reef
recently cut at 20dft. is small and patchy, and that pre- ,
sent developments do not warrant any immediate
change from the horse-whim mode of hauling. In a
trial crushing, the firsts, amounting to five tons, yielded
soz. 7dwt. to the ton, but the stone now paddocked—a
few tons—is inferior.
* * * *
Newcastle and Kembla (N.S.W.)and Port Pirie
(S.A.) were left in in the final run for the housing of the
Smelting Corporation’s works. Kembla won. The Cor-
poration’s; ideas with regard to the help to be got from
New Caledonia have, by the way, undergone a change;
thechances are that, in the end, the whole New Caledonia
proposals will be dropped, as some of them have been
already.
* * * *
White Cliffs (N.S.W.) opal miners are still dis-
satisfied with their marketing arrangements ; they live
on the rim of Sheol and gouge out the raw material and
sell it for £1 to a gentleman named Deidelstein or there-
abouts, who says it’s “ too plue,” and he knows he’ll lose
money on it. The stuff goes to Germany ; and the White
Cliffs gouger has the firm opinion that Germany sells
the j£l stone for £lO, after spending about 10s. on cut-
tingjand polishing. For 10 years past efforts have been
made to organise the gougers and command the market;
and theoretically the thing looks easy, because White
Cliffs produces over two-thirds of the world’s opal supply.
But the gougers are mostly poormen whocan’t wait, so they
have to sell on the spot; moreover, they are always com-
ing and going, and that makes organisation difficult. Just
now another attempt is being made to get better prices ; a
gouger who has been travelling reported that stone for
which he could only get £2 offered at White Cliffs he sold
in N’York for £l7. But that didn’t get over the practical
difficulty of financing the gougers. The latest idea is to
ask the English Wholesale Co-operative Society to take
up the business, and negotiations that way are now on
foot.
* * * *
A lump of opal, valued at £6OO, has been found
at the Lightning liidge field, outside Walgett (N.S.W.).
Interesting to know what the finders get for it. Several
other things are interesting ; for instance, reckoning the
£6OO lot in (it will probably fetch £200), what have been the
average earnings of the men on the field for six months?
They might work out at 10s. a week—not more. And
these are the figures for out-of-works to glue their eyes
to—not the £6OO.
* * * *
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), although deserted by
speculators since the drills told their sorry tale, hasn’t
slumped too much, if the drillassays are reasonably correct. ‘
But, as anticipated, the drilling has been useless work. Tub
Bulletin said, when it was proposed—“No matter what
the result of the drilling is, the main shaft will go' down
all the same; therefore,,why not sink the main shaft at -
once ? ” Now, after all the delay, the shaft is happening.
Also, just by way of consolation to shareholders, another
despatch of ore to Cockle Creek is happening. But
why hasn’t the C.S. A. made a push to erect even a single
reverb, or jacket, and so save heavy carriage ?
* * * *
Tharsis, Cobar (N.S.W.), which used to be the
Ivanhoe, and before that was the Bhoenix, which, pre-
sumably, rose from the, ashes of something still more
remote, is alleged to have struck something promising
that the Ivanhoe, the Phoenix, and the other things
missed. So far the “ something ” is very hazy and in-
definite ; and, in view of the claim’s vicissitudes, that
isn’t the sort of information that should lead to a rush of
speculation now. And there isn’t any rush either.
North Cobar, lately acquired by Australian
Mining' Estates Co., an English concern closely related to
the Oil Corporation, is (under manager L. J. Winton)
gradually equipping itself for the mission of recovering
the lost end (if there is any) of the Cobar copper lode.
Peculiarity of the Cobar lode is the occurrence of egg-
shaped lenses, and as three.of these have so far been dis-
covered in direct continuation, the Australian Mining
Estates presumably think there is no reason why there
should not be a fourth. So North Cobar is likely to undergo
the severest test of its life. Up to date it has proved
itself a veritable cabinet of disappointments,, and has
absorbed much capital—to which, by the way, the parent-
mine owners have not contributed, which shows what
they think of it. But, in spite of this, its position
demands some attention.
* * * *
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) showed wisdom in kicking
against proposed over-capitalisation. Good little mine as
it. is, the Bee, besides finding enough copper to equip
itself and pay irregular threepenny dividends on its
50,000 shares, has put a little into reserve; but the
chances of carrying a burden of 250,000 shares into the
dividend list are little better than Buckley’s. What with
improvements to machinery and duplicating the rever-
beratories, and other things that continually crop up, the
chances are that it will not pay dividends even on its
present shares for some months. The most solid share-
holders, at any rate, favor this course.
* * * *
Though N.S.W. seems waking only now to the
fact that it possesses first-class marble, there may be
seen in Sydney Museum two specimens of statuary
marble from Murrumbidgee and Yass, presented by
George Macleay just fifty years ago. Macleay at that
time maintained the excellence of Australian marble, but
his voice cried in a wilderness of importers.
* * * *
Bewick, Moreing and Co.’s new Australian
manager, Loring, is showing the Victorian public that
he knows how to drive a bargain, especially when the
other fellow is in a big hole. Poor Prentice and Southern,
after mopping up nearly £200,000, spent by one co. and
another, is handed to 8., M. and Co. for six months on
an option for which nothing is paid, with the right to
take a three-quarter interest in a 200,000 share co.
having a working capital of £30,000. This is even worse
than the old Gore-Hughes option, which shareholders
nowadays do not thank the Argus for stopping. Co.
went broke through relying on predictions about
the wash. Visick was no prophet. Gore was one when
he laughed at the promise of good yields. All
the shareholders’ stomach for call-paying has gone,
and so, with bowed head and due thankfulness, they
take a crumb from Bull’s table. Well, there is one thing
that 8., M. and Co. will now be able to say to their
Cohen friends at ’ome—“ We’ve got into deep lead wash
at last. The way may have been prepared for us, still
we’re there.” Having got there, it may be predicted
that they won’t stop long. If they do, it is equally cer-
tain they won’t be able to pay much out of the Southern
lead on a co. with a 200,000 register.
• * * * *
The, incursion of 8., M. and Co. into Rutherglen
draws attention to some late balance-sheets of the field.
Old-North Prentice and Prentice and Southern Co.’s, now
the. Prentice and Southern, spent jointly £150,000 on
their two shafts, and never paid a div. Present co. got a
loan of £20,000 from the State, and itself put twice as
much into the ground. Still no div. Great Southern
Consols has spent £44,000 of contributed money
and £176,000 of gold, and paid under £20,000
in' divs. Great Southern has spent £330,000,
of which £227,670 was from gold won, and has
paid about £20,000 in divs. Great Southern No. 1,
recently defunct, had an equally sad score up on the
wall. Chiltern Valley Consols, at the other end of the
field, is chasing these figures along very well, with no
sight of divs. ; and it is left, therefore, for John Cock’s
mine, the Chiltern Valley, to save the district with
£215,000 paid in divs. on a total expenditure of, roughly,
£BOO,OOO, most of which was got in the shallower ground.
Such figures explain why 8., M. and Co. are given a chance
to come into the field.
* * * *
England Consols is a Maldon bird. It had a
little flutter last week on the Melbourne Stock Exchange
on the news that 15dwt. dirt was showing in the bottom
level. Still the flight was not very' high, so when it fell it
did not receive many bruises. If it had gone to the
heights of Mt. Tarrangower, or sailed aloft to emulate
North of England, it might have had its chirrup ended.
As it is, the little fledgling is nestling close to mother
earth. Pending another flight, those who are helping it
along may be asked to particularise how the value of the
stone is estimated. Is it by systematic sampling, or dish
prospects ? On this everything depends.
* * •* *
Talk about the exclusiveness of Trades
Unionism 1 Why, members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne cannot take partners now unless they too
become members.
* * • *
The first bucket dredge to work Yackandandah
Creek (Vic.) has started, and local storekeepers shouted
a picnic, and buttered owner Donald Fletcher. Mean-
while workers looked glumly at three men and a couple
of lads doing a shift in place of 14 or 15 men on a barge.
Venture, while always losing some gold, will probably
pay in present position ; but up the creek, which
Fletcher has pegged for a mile or so, the country is all
slate, and buckets will be useless. In such country it
takes the pick and nozzle to search out every color.
Above Fletcher’s lease, Davison has just had 100 acres
surveyed. Lower down, at Allan’s Flat, one of Mrs.
Wallace’s barges has almost worked out. But the widow
has just floated another at Baranduda. Across at Bright
dredges are booming. The Tewksbury Freehold put up
the record of a£2 10s. div. for a seven weeks run. Same
co. is getting in a No. 2 plant, which will be at work in a
few weeks. The Tewksbury has returned 14s. per £1
share in twelve months.
* * » *
The temporary gold boom at Warrandyte
(Vic.), which has revived interest in the adjoining
diggings at Diamond Creek, recalls an old tale of the first
finding of gold on’“ the creek.” Henry and Fred Hurst
were squatting there in theearly days,” when one day
Henry, carting wood from a back paddock, knocked off
the cap of a gold reef and brought home a hatful of speci-
mens. He intended to return next day, but that night
bushranger Burke paid the brothers a visit, and, in an
argument, shot Henry dead.
•*/ * •
J. Bull in past years was at Toora, South
Gippsland, which the Paringa Co. has just tentatively
decided to take up on the strength, it seems, of F. W.
Trude’s report. And Bull was not only there;
he scorched his fingers badly as well. He
spent £20,000 in ■ bringing in water; but he
never got any tin back in divs. Present holders
are sufficiently modest to take all their consideration in
paid-up shares, provided a little drop (£2OOO cash) falls
into their bucket. This is to “cover their outlays
in procuring and investigating the option and
property.” It does not look as though they
have done mnch mining work. Even if they
have, the Paringa directors should think twice.
Trude’s report, anyway, has been read with gasps by Mel-
bourne people. These rub their eyes to think there is so
much wealth at their front door and they not able to see
it. Northe.v, Baudrv, Langford—where are they ?
* * * *
Melbourne solicitor and man-of-affairs Croker
has made terms with Bewick, Moreing & Co. to prospect the
Altona Bay alleged coalfield, near Newport, a Melbourne
suburb. This field was discovered 30 years ago by a local
brewer named Taegtow, and various shindykits have ten-
tatively tapped the alleged seams, which so far have only
yielded a poor quality of brown coal. Hitherto want of
capital to cope with the. water difficulty has prevented
anything like a thorough test.
* * * *
The kind of mining float which hurts mining is
taking place in connection with the New . Bird’s Reef
Co., Bendigo. The line was famous in the old days for
rich yields, and mismanagement is blamed for the fact
that it has been idle for 30 years. Eleven co.’s won
50,0000 z. from the reef, originally found by a man named
Bird. The promoters are taking 5000 shares, fully paid
to 35., and £125 cash, and selling 27,000 shares to the
public at 6d. Thus £5OO will be placed to the credit of
the co. What for? To buy an oil painting of old Mr.
Bird? 'To fill in the shafts and plant lemons? No—to
develop a Bendigo mine ! The farce of it.
*\* * *
Tin has touched a record—£2o3 per ton. For
four years its statistical position has been getting stronger,
and high rates have been foreshadowed; but not £203.
Two years ago the price was £126, and 12 months later it
was £136 ; so the big jump has been in the past year—
£4o within the last four months. Consumers, with im-
mediate orders booked, seem to have been caught in a
trap (the market, which lies in the hollow of the hand of
the Dutch, is one of the trickiest in the world), and any-
thing in the neighborhood of £2OO can only be regarded
as a freak.
* ■* * *
Six months ago it was said that Lindesay
Clark, of the Briseis (Tas.), had reported that the Triangle
and other claims held by the ill-fated Ringarooma tin
mines would not suit his co. Six weeks ago the market
heard from London that the properties were to be
bought, and, within six hours after this last statement ha.d'
been confirmed by the directors, the shares were on their
w r ay downhill. It was natural, too, though it may not
suit Bowes Kelly, with his 60,000 shares, or Tom Luxton’s
little brood of chickens. Said Ringarooma blocks are.
chiefly remarkable for their capping of
Clouston tried to wash the red soil away with the pdmp
and race, but it beat him and also beat J. Bull, who
backed him. Briseis takes on the job because it has'
water, and cannot reckon on much of a life unless it
acquires other mines. A good deal of the profits will, go ,
into the Ringarooma tail race, unless the proposition is t
dealt with in a leisurely way. Even with the overburden
off, the wash will have to be elevated, and good dirt is
needed to pay on these conditions. The Pioneer may be
cited, but it has no overburden and the tin goes down
pretty well from the grass roots. Another factor to occa-
sion doubt over the purchase is that the lead widens as it ,
makes away from its source in the Briseis ; hence a doubt
as to whether averages will be high. Anyway, someone
has been shooting shares into the market sluice-box
whenever there has been a bit of a current to carry them
off. The question is, Who?
* * * *
Just now Charters Towers is scarcely livelier i
than Gympie, which seems almost as dead as Noah.
Think of the tumble—in April, 1905, the mills belted out
£52,764 ;in April, 1906, only £38,546. And, of course, |
cyanide gave less too. For the first four months of this
year and last the field tells this dismal yarn :
. , • 1905. • 1906.
Gold £301,728 £257,915
Dividends ~ £67,785 £46,034
Calls 35,378 51,877
Surplus of dividends .. .. £32,407 >
Excess of calls .. ~ .. ~. £5,843 ,
This month there doesn’t seem as much as one solitary
dividend in sight. One day lately the few' who are left to
pick up a precarious living by buying Long Toms to-day
at 3Jd. and selling them to-morrow at 3|d. got wildly
excited over a report that mineral had been touched by a
bore in Brilliant Stockholm shaft. The “speckers”
lived on it for 24 hours ; then plunk ! fell the stock again ;
the men had made a mistake. Down south nothing
belonging to Charters Towers is dealt in now as a regular
thing, except perhaps Victory ; and the amount of sup-
port that stock gets is surprising under the circum-
stances. It’s the crowd, and not the mine behind the
crowd, that keeps the stock where it is.
* * » *
The path of the Carrington Lion P.C., Charters
Tow'ers, is still’clouded. The rich gold-stone of the sur-
face —and consequently of the early boom crushings—is
replaced at the lower levels by a body of very highly
mineralised stuff, carrying copper, galena, and a little
zinc, which is unfortunate (for amalgamation purposes).
All the same, those at present “ unfortunate ” metals
may save the bacon of the Carrington Lion, which now
looks much more of a concentrating-smelting proposition
than a milling-c Km-amalgamation job. Directors are
evidently nonplussed, and a small parcel of ore intended
for experimental purposes has left for Europe.
* * * *
Why this dead silence concerning the lately-
boomed fabulous wealth in the School Reserve at Charters
Towers? Seems as if the meek and mild reports in circu-
lation at present are the best that the property ever de-
served. The rise going up from Mills’ is to be continued
165 ft. further to connect with the School Reserve’s work-
ings. As it is already 25ft. into the School’s grounds, it
means that there is a patch of 190 ft. from the lowest
workings to the boundary ; 15ft. past that in Mills’, there
is 3ft. of stone.
* • * *
Premier Kidston (Q.), speaking at Cloncurry,
stated that, barring interference by floods, the railway
will be through in 18 months. The performance will
be creditable to the engineers, if this forecast is realised.
Kidston probably takes an optimistic view of the under-
taking, because he sees a reasonable surplus ahead, and
funds will therefore be more quickly available for con-
struction. A continuance of this state of things depends
upon further good rains, and further good rains mean
floods, and floods mean delay. Given a full purse, no
political eruption, and no floods, Kidston’s forecast may
be realised —three large assumptions for Queensland.
* * * *
Latest S. Australian “oilfield” is on the lower
end of Yorke’s Peninsula, where the salt comes from ;
and there’s money behind the venture. “The odor of
gases near the place of discovery is so strong as to
prevent persons approaching within a distance of several
feet,” a local man writes. It sounds like a whale —one
of the very dead whales that the “ Abo.’’-liars have been
writing about lately. They propose to bore, to see,
presumably, if the whale will spout.
'* * * *
Jim Wilkinson, one of the earliest battlers at
Silverton (N.S.W.), and, later, on the Murchison (W.A.j,
recently returned from Java, where he went hunting for
copper. Dutch authorities treated him well, and gave
him a concession of some likely-looking country ; but,
although he found a couple of lodes, they were too small
for profit, and he had to let them slide. He put in a few
weeks in mid-Java, looking down the craters of volcanoes,
some of them lively, and spent altogether a good time.
Also he visited Dutch Borneo, which he describes as rich
in coal, oil, iron, copper, tin, and gold—as fine a country
as any prospector could wish for. But the Mynheers in
possession offer no encouragement to syndicates. He
went up to Sian>, and penetrated to a native state some
80 miles from the coast; but, although the Sultan
received him kindly enough, his Maj. w'as not giving any-
thing away in the shape of concessions. Any mining
that was to be done he could do himself. So J. J.
Wilkinson returned empty-handed. ■
* * * *
Watchful: All four for the present quite safe.
... .G.S.J. : N.Z. Insurance Go. is not under the Limited
Liability Act.. .Warburton: Sydney D.T. Qo., 11,000 shares,
£lO paid; recent'dividends,' 12J per cent., and bonus
shares, the latter averaging for the past five years about
13 per cent.' per annum at par ; reserve fund is about
£35,000; and return at the price mentioned would be
slightly under 4 per cent Austral: (1) See par. (2)
Can’t advise in that general way. Cassiterite : Ask
John Moffatt, Irvinebank (Q.), if he will advise if you send
samples.
• * * *
The Phoenix Assurance Co., Ltd., of London,
had, on Dec. 31st last, assets amounting to £2,091,823,
against which there were liabilities of £154,037, leaving
£1,937,793 net. There is for the protection of policy-
holders also an uncalled capita* of £2,419,920. Last year
the co. made a profit of £269,588, of which £94,107 was
divided, or at the rate of 35 per cent. ; the profit was
equal to just over 100 per cent. The losses were 48'5 per
cent, of the net premiums ; the expenses (exclusive of
taxes) were 34’5 per cent, of net premiums. This shows
17 per cent, of the premiums available for profits (and
taxes) as against B’B per cent, in the New Zealand last
year, 11 "9 per cent, in the South British, 11-9 per cent, in
the United (Sydney). The Phoenix’s expense rate is
rather above, and its loss rate rather below, the Austral-
asian average.
* * * «
A Westralian who dealt largely in bark lately
found himself with about 10,000 tons over market re-
quirements. He had paid all his money away in wages
to the bark-strippers, and was hard up. A German bark-
shipping firm, being asked to make an advance, referred
him to a local solicitor, who set about raising an advance
of £ll,OOO, or something like a fourth of the actual value
of the bark at that time. A bill of sale was drawn up and
registered, but not so a collateral agreement, under which
Gent One was to receive £5 ss. per day for his services dur-
ing the whole periqd he had the matter in hand, also
travelling expenses, £450 commission, and a bonus of
£4OOO. Altogether Gent One provided that he should
receive £5383 as his first preference claim, and other
charges brought up the amount to be deducted from the
loan of £ll,OOO to £5691. Gent One let the thing go ,to
the Supreme Court, too ; and, though the agreement was
fired out there, the sale was ordered to stand.
During its last municipal year the Glasgow
(municipally-owned) tram receipts were £764,760 ; work-
ing expenses, £392,601 ; net receipts, £372,159; interest
charges and rents, £53,679 ; repayment charges, £46,920;
surplus, £271,590; depreciation and reserve fund
£246,590 ; contribution to rate fund, £25,000. From ’7i
to ’94 private enterprise ran Glasgow’s trams. It worked
its employees 14 hours a day for an average wage of 225. a
week ;it charged the public an average fare of - 89 d. per
mile, and it contributed £63,628 to the common good in
23 years. Then the Corporation took charge. It reduced
the employees’ hours to 10 per day and raised their wages
to an average of 275. per week, with two free uniforms
annually. It reduced the fares to an average "46d. per
mile, and in the last .three years it has paid nearly as
much to the common good as the private co. did in 23
viz., £62,500.
** f *
The Maffra (Vie.) beet sugar proposition, in
which the State sank £62,000 and the co. £31,000, is being
revived. The Bent Government will send canvassers
through the district to see how much beet the sturdy, in-
dependent farmers will guarantee, will provide experts to
study the question of manufacture, will pamper the farmers
with big railway concessions on the carriage of the roots to
the factory, and—though careful to give private “enter-
prise ” (!) the first chance —will, if necessary, run the
factory itself. And, so far, none of the Gippsland farmers
are howling about the horrors of Socialism.
* * * *
“ O’T.” from north-west Tasmania: Many of
the tin-concerns here are surely never intended to pay,
and are mere excuses for rooking the public either on
promotion or on the market. Take a typical instance.
Manager, Victorian engineer, done no mining : never saw
tin before, and doesn’t know it now. Blacksmith, Victorian
engine-driver, who never laid a pick in'ftis life ; gets 12s.
a day. Local blacksmith, who served his time, employed
on same job as miner at 7s. 6d. Carpenter, Victorian
tomahawk expert, 12s. Assistant carpenter, Victorian
miner, never tackled joinery. Foreman of road party,
Victorian ferry-boat stoker, Bs. As usual the locals only
are “rated”—that is, “paid what they are worth”*;
supremely fuhny in the circumstances! No “local”
knows what he is going to get until pay-day comes, when
he is handed as little as may be. The above motley com-
pany is building a dam that one wholesome night’s rain
would sweep into the Pacific if it had any catchment or
other supply, which it hasn’t. So it fairly balances the
mine, which equally lacks any permanent tin.
* * * *
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby,
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
* ■* * *
It is interesting to note that the “Hornsby”
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
» * * *
The Curtin Davis Proprietary Company, No
Liability, is prepared to consider offers of approved
mining properties under working option of purchase for
cash. Full particulars to R. E. Tweddell, Manager, 31
Queen-street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Two sets of improved plunger pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the “ keystone ”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set 'will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 6,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming part of one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound flap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work in hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
* * * *
Joint Stock Co.’s. Journal, (London) July 20,
1904, writes of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited: —“ It is procuring a large amount of good and
permanent business. It annually adds largely to its
accumulated funds, upon which a return is secured
sufficiently great to provide a handsome margin of profit.
Its prospects are admirable.”*
* * * »
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * •
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen-
street, Melbourne. Commission business only.
Agents everywhere.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is •
installed. This company stock boilers at “Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
• * •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
The strength, lightness* durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,-
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.* 1
K * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* • * # ■ i i\
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents Ob'-
tamed. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


Hotel
A ustra/in -
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel In Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING IT ATT.,
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms dav
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of
guests.
URE SMITH, Manager,
Oastfereagh-st>, Sydney.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 & 411 George St.
SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“Kulpara”: “C.X.G.” (5/4/’O6) com-
. plains of the heat and discomforts of Farina
‘ (S.A.). Let me invite him to Oodnadatta, a few
hundred miles further on, and also to some of the
cattle stations north of Oodnadatta. This year
we have only had a few points of rain, and north,
right through to the Territory, is in an awful
state. Along the Finke cattle are dying in
hundreds, and not a bit of feed is to be seen.
Even the spinifex is dead, and it takes a very
severe drought to kill it off. And how do the
residents fare ? With only a fortnightly train
(which takes three days to do the journey), and
no refrigerating car attached, and the ther-
mometer dancing a can-can between 120 and 125
in the shade, how can we get necessaries, let alone
luxuries ? No butter, eggs, fruit or vegetables are
to be seen, and only about half a cup of milk per
day. Certainly there was a market garden in
Ood., but owing to the waterholes drying, it had
to close, ior months we have been existing on
bread and salt beef, washed down with tea.
ON THE ROAD TO GOONDABLOOIE.
“Feel lonely travelling? Wot rot!"
nTwSSlt'* \ In J 6 &y t 0 “ MißselWh »
26/4/ 06) as to the truth of the legend that
SfJilFfr? SD i ike . is . assassina'ted, his other
7L7 1 b ®. f ? und withm twenty-four hours
a-t that particular spot. <©nce at ‘‘ Wmelrov ”
* S ett killed a browTsnake
near the house door at about midday. Next dav
® t ab P“f having occasion to go to
b^“, the ™ uth of which I had left
a hu ?® brown snake coiled therein.
war withas much noise as George
sS£i*l en w f r ?P bed he just said he had to
address a Women s League meeting somewhere,
i« ded b^ fcd ?- Wa « camped on the
Seen k O (Q i ) onoe ’ lookin g after a few
SffL. 0 ™ da -Y wh «n we /myself and a black
boy) were smoking m the sun near the hut, a
very large carpet-snake appeared. The nigger
aVer r e<l thalt jumbudk could 'never equal
S'ft® *1 an article of food, fell upon the
reptile and smote him hip and thigh. Next day
re?fcUri,ed - "* stmdown, another snake
exactly the same am appearance, was coiled in
exactly the same spot, and the blackbov did
Another time out in the" land
where the dead men lie (and the dead camels too,
and any number of them), I was staying for a week’s
spell with a boundary-rider. One morning, on
opening the door we perceived a large, reddish-
brown snake about ten yards awav, and the
boundary-rider put a bullet through' the unfor-
tunate reptile s head. ‘‘You will see his mate
here to-morrow, he said, and sure enough next
morning there was his mate. I tried to prevent
that slaughter, but in vain. “His mate would
i 6 T h T e tiU sh « had bitten someone
now the boundary-rider told me, and despatched
the lady. I have known two or three, perhaps
half-a-dozen, other instances.
• * « »
“ Moana ”: Be spoiling of hides by
branding, referred to by “ Elmore ” (B. 3/5/’O6).
1 wo Maorilanders (Messrs. I>e Lisle and Luttrell)
nave a, painless branding composition on the
market, which they claim to be permanent and
oi° l ?ir OU& to , tbe b ' des - I branded four cows
about three months ago, and the result is a clean,
sharp brand. The composition is like tar to look
at, and is pressed firmly on a dipped surface
a r n T ery fine brand - (I used hoop-iron on
edge.) lhere seems to be some depilatory in the
mixture. It raises a small scab, which falls off in
about three weeks, bringing the hair with it, and
leaving bareskm where the brand wasapplied. The
makers claim that the cost is under £d. per heaxl,
“fa 3 £ bl &. savi «g in time and trouble,
also that the branding is absolutely painless and
permanent.
* * * •
“ Quandong ” : Now that the woman-
h a, r t 3pwUWe tal] y> and woman
scrub-cutter with_ her scarcely-respectable suit of
dungarees, have passed out of
the limelight, what about the
woman-publican ? She is a pretty
frequent occurrence in the
country towns of the Common-
wealth. Generally she is married
to an incapable, who by law is
licensed to retail fermented
and spirituous liquors,” and who
therefore is nominally a Bung,
but she doesn’t allow him inside
the bar to retail, &c., so practi-
cally m the running of the
pub. he is only the figure which
considerably resembles a bung-
hole. Recently in a N.S.W.
border township I struck a hotel
of this kind, kept by James Jug-
gins at least the sign over the
bar dqor said so. The only
James I could see thereabouts
was the groom, called Jim by all
and sundry, including Mrs. Pub-
lichouse’s grown-up daughters,
the result of a former marriage,
ihe said lady was addressed hy
all hands as “ Missus,” Jim in-
cluded. She worked the beer-
pump artistically, and wielded
the carving-knife at the head
of the dinner-table. When oc-
cupied in the latter performance
the eldest daughter attended to
thirsty souls. I concluded Jug-
gins was having a holiday. Morn-
ing after my arrival there, I
went to see about the feeding
of my horse. Jim was attend-
ing to him. After a few casual
remarks, X asked ; “ Where is
Mr. Juggins, Jim ? ” “ Which
Mr. Juggins ? ” “ The licensee
of this pub.” “That’s me.” This
flabbergasted me, but I managed
to say that I supposed he pre-
ferred an out-door life to serving
in the bar, and left. Subse-
quently discovered that Jim had
been a coach-driver before marry-
ing Missus."’ He was her second
choice. Her first pick had also
been rigidly prohibited from
approaching the beer-pump, and
h a d been degraded to the position of groom/' The
only differenco was that ho was Jo©, not Jim.
* * * *
“Morgue” sends in a curious entry for
the smells competition : J
fJ,r^K aVellin ? °?, e i vefc n .^ hfc b y the 6 o'clock train
from Melbourne to Prahran in a crowded second-class
smoking carnage Windows were all closed on account
of the rain. An old navvy, cleaning out a huge clay pipe
suddenly found that he had lost his 'bacca, and, turning
to me, asked for a fill. I felt in my pockets, and only
discovered a few scrummages ” (it was a coat that I had
on when fishing a week previously). They weren’t tobacco
■oranmwgw. V j Vere ’ ? s 1 af terwards realised, dried
earth worms that I had put in mj pocket and forgotten
He stuffed his old pipe with then?and lit up. There are
no words to describe that carriage after five minutes of
dried worm smoke. All the windows were stuffed with
faces gasping. The old man went on quietly smokina-
but expectorating frequently. When the train got to
Richmond there was a blackguard rush from the car
riag-e. As I was staggering out the old navvy said to me
»h^n° n . >r ish t 0 °® end > hut if I was you I’d chuek that
ba.ca ,it s worse than prison ‘ snout.’ He looked as if
he knew what he was talking about, too. 1
• * * *
“Yarrum”: Last time I visited Mf
Kembla (N.S.W.) my eyes wanderS Song
Iliawarra Range in quest of a flame-tree that has
been admired by thousands of tourists; but alas 1
it was non eat. Later, was informed that it had
been ringbarked by some Hun and had died. For
an act of vandalism this would be hard to beat
and the perpetrator of the act should be compelled
to walk from Port Darwin to Adelaide.
* • • •
Nasty little coughs and colds
Quickly make you ill ;
Drive you to a legal man
About your final will.
Batter far to cure the cold
r ,„ wit l'Woods’ Peppermint Cure,
Ilian life to be a burden
Which you could not endure.*
THE MURDER A VERTED.
PARSON : “ Yesterday your father asked me if I could do with half
a pig he was going to kill. Now he sends mutton instead. Why?"
SON : “ Well, yer see, the pig got well!"
“Elmore”: Going round my traps the
other night, I found a wallaby caught by the toe.
t\.t 1S i s^ar^e<: a discussion re curious catches,
-Nearly everything in the bush that crawls, runs,
or Hies had been caught by one or other of us, and
we were going strong when Jack asked if any man
present had ever caught a snake in a rabbit-trap,
lhen'there was a silence; not even the most
abandoned liar of the five of us could say that he
had ever seen or heard of a trapped snake. At
last Iheophilus broke the tense stillness by say-
trap *' e onoe ta^en a blowfly in his rabbit-
* * • #
The Melbourne papers failed in the en-
deavor to make a horror of the disappearance of
an elderly rabbit-trapper named Stevens (vaguely
reported to have seen better days) from the scrub-
covered district of Tiinboon. Stevens, after a
violent quarrel with some
of the Hindu brethren at
the Timboon store, van-
ished into the Unknown,
and left his blankets and
his billy-can behind him.
Then the inhabitants of
lirnboon sniffed luxuri-
ously, and said that the
atmosphere in various
vaguely-defined localities
was full of the odor of
burning man. They went
out looking for ashes and
bones and a burnt hat
and two incinerated
boots. The Melbourne
dailies sent special re-
porters to the spot, and
the detective office suc-
ceeded in finding two
sleuths who were not
under suspension at the
moment, and despatched
them to pursue the wild
and hairy clue to its lair.
Reporters and police
hunted through leagues
of scrub, and turned over
innumerable logs, and
sent myriad of insects scuttling in all directions,
but found nothing of interest. Then the corpse
was heard from away at Cobden (at least, it was
alleged to be the same live corpse), and the repor-
Melbourne 1106 to ° k Tait ' S dis S usted train back to
* * * ,
W.P.B. : What is the most liquid
drunk by a single man in a single breath ? I once
knevv a person who, for the trifling wager of
' •’ f dld the *£ lck t 0 the extent of a quart and
a half of water. It was water, mind. I didn’t
try him with beer, and as you are aware that is
another question ! I've done a quart of beer
myself at one breath, and after puffing pretty hard
for a second or two, backed my cart for more,
ihe reason why I was prevented from busting
myself was because Mr. Publichouse only had I
quart tumbler. In this particular instance I paid
dd. for the drink, as Mr. P. was so highly nleaspd
that he gave ine 50 per cent, rebate.
age back a year so as to save a trifling difefeii'c'e
between burial charges for adults and 'children.
* * •
l< Krex ” : Aftet two weary years, during
which only Sin. of rain fell, Jupiter Slush suddenly
alarmed the inhabitants of Innamincka (S.A.) by
letting loose nearly lOin. in three weeks. A goodly
part of the walls of the stone buildings subsided, by
way of protest. A huge indentation in front of
the town, in which there grows a number of gum
and box trees, is where the Cooper is supposed to
run when there is any surplus water from Queens-
land. Now, 16in. to 30in. rain having fallen along
the watershed of the Cooper, the result is a
monster flood, 2ft. higher than that of ’9l, the
highest previous flood known to whites. Inna-
“ sui<kni” : Was
once prospecting with
a irate wno had been
ovt. to Groperland
during the rush, _ and
consequently consider-
ed himself justified in
crushing me about §0
times a day with re-
marks commencit#
“ When I was in \V. A. ’
—— From this thei'e
■was Wo appeal. , 'O'rfe
day he dropped his
pipe clowb h ! n old 'Shaft,
Which wris riSed , fis a
\vell, abd X hrid 'to ih'vVdr
him doWb 'tb fdcoVdr
the property. Wfhd-
IriSs w&STiara frdn'bkVk,
k'nd hth‘66th. ks glass?,
arid had no staple in it
'to secure end of rope.
When the lowered ‘one
was about 6ft. ’from the
water 1 pointed out
that there was a big
chance of the rope slip-
ping round on the bar-
rel, as there were only
four turns left on. A
voice came up from
below saying that when
he was in W.A. two
turns were quite suffi-
cient. Then there was
a jerk and a splash,
followed sortie W hat
later by heavy 'cbfSihg.
It took OV'e'r an hour
to fish the rope up
with a long sapling and
get him out. After
that, no one seemed to
care a straw whether
he had been in W.A.
or not. His mana had
departed, and his name
was Mudd—with an-
extra “ d.”
# * •
“ O’F.” : I beg bo
nominate for the meatt-
man championship a
wealthy Victorian far-
mer, who recently tried
to put his dead sort’s
LAND THAT WAS LAND.
LAND AGENT: “ This farm, I suppose, is pretty
good for producing stuff?”
FARMER FARBACK : “My oath I One cove grew
a family of 16 on it; another chap potted up
three acres and sold it as a hair -restorer;
and the last feller’s crop growcd so big that he
lost hisself in it, and he’s never been seen
since. My oath! it’s good stuff,.”
mmcka station was saved in’9l by an embank
ment 3ft. high around the stone-and-pug building-
on , tbl s occasion, a 4ft. embankment was of no
avad > and the station is now a wreck. Coone-v
station, further down the Cooper, is hemmed uf
and the inhabitants could not send for tlieir mails
f « r over four weeks. This flood will reach Lake
Eyre easy. lja,Ke
BILL’S BIRTHPLACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ There ain’t no place like it on earth ! *’
Bill made the statement in a bar
Up Queensland way. “It gave me birth,
And it’s Victorian ; there yew are 1
“ Yous tork of Sydney and of Perth,
How very rapidly they grew 1 ”
Here Bill nigh choked himself with mirth.
“ Well, yew should just see Bungaloo !
‘ And spread itself 1 Here, strike me puce,
A mushroom isn’t in the race,
It grows so quick—but, wot’s the use ?
Yew want to go and see the place.”
I know it well,” a stranger said,
And meditatively did spit;
“ 1 knew a bloke down there who’s dead,
And I don’t think too much of it."
“Not much 1" cried Bill. “Oh, paint me green,
With crossbars pink and spots of blue 1
How long is it since yew have been
In sight of distant Bungaloo ? ”
“ Three weeks 1 ” the stranger said. Cried Bill:
■“ What I Strike me strawb’rv as a cow,
H’yer think the place is like that still ?
Yew just go back and see it now ! ”
x.s.w.
ERN S. EMERSON.


By Royal
Warrant to
H.M.
King Edward VII.
All must eat salt
Then why not choose the
only one—
By Royal
Appointment to
H.R-H. The
Prince of Wales.
Cerebos
SALT,
which both seasons and strengthens the Food,
Wholesale Agents:—Harrison & Attwood, Sydney
£lO 10s.
Gent's Watch .
Heavy 14ct. Gold Hunting
f- plate Lever.
15 Jewels. Expansion Balance.
15 Years’ Guarantee.
Profoundly accurate. Rarely strong.
The “ Fx. & R.” Levers are uneclipsed.
Special Presentation discount.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER ST.
C 7!
! *Ny.
FAIRFAX
m
“
Gent’s 14 ct.
Gold Hunting
Lever, fully
jewelled—
£lO 103.
“Drifter”: “Mark” (B. 12/4/06) has
been struck by the total absence of bird life on
the N.S.W. Blue Mountains. “Mark” must
have turned himself loose among the scenery
during the drowse of noonday, when the feathered
songster is digesting the worm during a siesta amid
the foliage. Was camped in the Valley of the
Waters near Wentworth Falls recently, and was
awakened every morning by a full orchestra of
birdsong. Gaudy rosellas, king _ parrots, a hun-
dred varieties of honey birds amid the blossoms,
coach whips chasing through the bracken, wild
pigeons, thrushes, magpies, and lyre-birds filled
the hush with chatter, coo and whistling melody
as the sun lit up the dim valley. But as the day
advanced, the song of the birds dwindled gradu-
ally away till only the occasional note of the
coachwhip or the caw of the black magpie sounded
from the bosom of the bush.
* * # *
“Janor” (whose letter cost 2d. for de-
ficient postage): In reply to “Musselburgh’s”
inquiry as to the truth of the legend that if a
snake is killed his mate will be found, 24 hours
afterwards, at that particular spot (8., 26/4/’O6),
I say “Rats !” (Pity he didn’t say it in a suffi-
ciently stamped letter.) During the past summe r
I travelled a bush track twice daily for several
months, during which time my average bag was
seven snakes weekly (if “Janor” had sent in
particulars of these snakes as they came to hand
the deficient postage would have been 14d.), but
I did not kill two in any one particular spot.
(Perhaps the other one was away buying stamps.)
The result of many years’ observation leads me to
the conclusion that snakes are always on their
own; there “ain’t no mate.” If they marry, as
“ Musselburgh ” (whose letter was sufficiently
stamped) suggests, why the fierce bouts of fisti-
cuffs, I have many a time refereed—with a waddy
—between two males over a lady ? Certainly one
of the combatants may have been a co-re., though
evidence is not forthcoming to support that
theory. Anyhow, “Musselburgh” is rightabout
their fondness for milk. They prefer it to music.
For instance, a black snake entered my dining-
room a while back, and crawled right over the
Jew’s harp, which was lying on the floor, without
any attempt to play upon it. But he rushed an
unopened tin of milk. When I killed him he was
busy opening the tin, which he held firmly in a
coil of his tail. He used the hole in his face to
propel the tin-opener.
IF TWO MEN FELL OUT OF A BALLOON IN AUSTRALIA?
JIM ( thinking of the run home, excitedly): “ Betcher tent’one on the fat bloke!"
A new writer on Australian life has sprung
into dreadful being in the Pall Mall Magazine
(Eng.). This person writes of the Gulf country,
and his puppets use chunks of copper for camp-
stools and say Darn-it-all! ” in loud, manly
voices. In that same Gulf country, we Australians
do not say “Darn-it-all.” We say and
and , and other things. But even in our most
angry and aor.ly-trled Lment. we have nevS
been known to say JJarn-it-all!
“ A.H.8.” from Perth
Vegetables in W.A. you were speaking of, weren’t you
(B. 6/3/’O6) ? Why, for 20 miles around Perth the country
is good for nothing else, and I can plainly see the day
when a great uprising of market gardeners here will
insist, per Act
of Parliament,
upon all resi-
dents subsisting
solely on a vege-
table diet, to
provide the said
gardeners with
a market and
the means of
getting the
necessary crust
and lb. of steak.
(No, I’m not
Irish.)
The country
is a sand-drift
—sand, sand,
and yet more
sand, and finally
(superlative)
most sand.
Consequently
no water-
courses, creeks,
or gullies. The
depressions be-
come swamps,
from an acre to
a square mile or
more, and many
of these, when
drained, show a
black, loamy
soil, which looks
better than it
is. When put
under intense
culture —tons of
manure being
required—there
is no more suit-
able place for
market gard-
ens. But the
toil, the con-
tinual grind,
and the ever-
lasting call for
, more manure
makes it a fear-
some occupa-
tion. Pitiful it
is to see men
come down
from the gold-
fields, parched
and sun-dried
in the effort to
put together a
modest couple
of hundred—
who, revelling
in the coolness
and dampness
of a coastal
winter, fancy
they have
struck at last
tli e promised
land. Straight-
way they buy a
ten-acre block
of swamp, and so commit themselves to a test of endur-
ance . whicl i T 99 caB fs lout 1 out of every 100 leaves them
P ’ enervated m mind> and dead to all am ‘
Why is it, my Oracle, why is it that men who are good
miners should want to turn themselves into bad farmers;
that men who can drive an engine and run a battery
should feel so sure that their proper place is behind a
- 10 - e v w f h J ,sfc ffuid ! n S. a P' 0^ 1 ?! °* u fchat n \ en who can P ut
KffdS? ZKB KJSSMIJ
having a poultry farm ? Why is it ?
A GRACIOUS ERROR.
INEBRIATED PERSON ( from Wayback, as the water-cart runs over him): “ Thank Heavensh,
th' droughtsh broken at lasht! ”
“ Quan”: If no minimum number of pubs,
is fixed for the prize over-pubbed township compe-
tition, and have-beens are not disqualified, I
hereby enter a sure winner. It’s name is Bruns-
wick Heads (North Coast, .N.S.W.). When I
struck it in 1895 its population was only 39, and
it had two substantially-built hotels —not shanties.
Within a radius the population was only
51. I was the one, so can vouch for the accuracy
of my allegations. It was the most un-Australian
township I ever struck. Of the 15 men living
there, only five were Australians. The archi-
tecture consisted of a School of Arts, a brick
public school, police station, posb office, pilot
station, two stores, one ex-store (two-storeyed),
three private residences (one unoccupied), a ferry-
man’s hut, a goods shed, and the two pubs afore-
mentioned.
• • * *
“ Can Jeen ” paints a gloomy picture :
I am just home from a country concert. A choir of
children were “ singing ” glees, led by the schoolmaster
and accompanied by his wife. The schoolmaster was a
lanfcern-jawed man with black side-whiskers and eye-
glasses. Bread-and-butter dinners were writ large on his
countenance. There were four of his children present,
and the mother was wearing a much-faded, loose, three-
quarter coat. The youngest child (about a year old) sat
on mother’s lap, pasty and peevish, and not to be satis-
fied even by the proffered bottle. A struggling poverty
could be seen in the coarse stockings, bad boots, shabby
clothes, and the ill-fed hungry looks of the animated pegs
they hung on. And then I looked at the little choir, his
scholars. They were a mixed lot —the usual country
school. One or two had good looks; one or two were
rather pert or smart; none of them showed that bright-
ness of countenance which is the index to an expanding
mind suitably fed.
And how could they show it ? Their teacher goes to
school in the morning. The baby has had a restless
night. The mother, in delicate health, wants some held
in the house. He lights the fire and tidies up, and sees
the children get their breakfast —tea, bread and butter,
and an occasional egg. He is tired and peevish ; the
work is an irksome grind. Dinner is a bit of corned beef,
bread and butter (the butcher only comes once a week,
and potatoes are dear). The afternoon is hot, the
children fidgetty. What a relief when they can be
dismissed ! Even for those few hours in the day they are
starved of any refining influences, and refined thoughts
don’t come to empty stomachs and worried brains.
The holidays come, but the funds don’t run to a trip;
the only thing is to “ mooch ” the time away till the
grind comes round again. The Department pays this man,
perhaps, £2 10s. a week, and expects—or does it really
expect?—an intellectual influence on the youth of the
country in return. What do they get? Instruction,
perhaps, but no education, from a servile drudge who
sells his soul for a pittance.
The remedy? Pear there isn’t one, unless we euthana-
tise the whole Department—free it from the bonds of the
mercenary book-compiler and the ambidextral crank, and
get men in their stead who understand that their business
is the efficient education of our children, and who mean
to see it done. And that means, right to begin with—
money.
• * • •
“ Wurrym ” : Ever hear of a night- well ?
Thirty or forty miles east of Wagin, on the
Southern railway of W.A., there is a hill, on top
of which is a small cavern. . Part of the floor of
the cavern is water-worn into a basin holding
about 50 gallons. ' A little after sundown a tiny
thread of water starts trickling from an inlet in
the wall of the cave, and continues till shortly be-
fore sunrise. During the day not a drop flows.
The water is of crystal clearness, and as pure as
Westralia’s Upper House. The intermittent
spring is no novelty; but why this particular
spring should only flow at night-time—it is shown
on the Government plans as “ The Nightwell ”
—has never been explained, or if it has I happened
to be away collecting a bad debt at the time.
“ Quidam ” : Re picture “ The Filial Aus-
tralian ” (8., Feb. 22/’O6). I was once at a race
meeting at Hill End, and saw an Australian youth
and his father there, the latter much under the
influence. The youth attended the race ball that
night, but his progenitor did not return till next
afternoon, when he was brought home, gently
cursing at rheumatism and a large bump on his
skull, in a spring cart, by a friend who found him
lying on the deserted racecourse. Pressed for ex-
planations, the fond son said that when he was
piloting his parent from the course the old person
fell violently against a stump with his “ napper.”
“ I thought he was stiff right enough, so I went
through his pockets and went to the darnce with
the beans.” The “old man” was laid up for a
week, but his bad language didn’t appear to be
specially directed against his enterprising off-
spring. He seemed to take the offspring as a
matter of course.
“Kulfara”: Guess “Janor” (B. 5/4/’O6)
makes a bloomer, or else the “ perforated
mounds” (white-ants nests) in his district must
be different from those up here (Central Aus-
tralia). Here we have them from 2ft. to 14ft.
high, and on going into camp, if wood is scarce,
they are very handy. You scoop out a hole from
one side at the bottom to the centre, and one from
the top down to meet it, making a kind of flue.
Then put your quart pot in the top hole, a few
sticks in the bottom, and in no time it’s like a
baker’s oven. On a cold night you camp fairly
close to it, and it will keep you warm all night.
It is marvellous how it retains its heat. The
only objection is that the smoke from the mound
is very unpleasant if it gets in the boiling water.
Once, when hard-up for wood, baked a damper in
the “ coals ” from the mound, but it tasted as if it
had been cooked in a cow-dung fire.
**• * •
From a gruesome correspondent at Mac-
kinlay (Queensland): —
Stock passings to-day : Policeman and leper.
“Two Seas”: Be “T.G.F.’s” inquiry
(B. 3/5/’O6) as to why sheep at a distance some-
times look like bullocks “on a plain out Mores
way.” It isn’t necessary to go up there to witness
that phenomenon. Most sheep musterers have
observed the same tiling—particularly in the early
morning when sheep are standing on a ridge out-
lined against the sky. Some peculiar atmospheric
condition is the cause of the apparent enlargement
of the jumbucks. Re “ T.G.F.’s” second query,
as to why sheep “ half-a-mile away in an opposite
direction are decreased to the size of rabbits,” I
venture to suggest that he was looking at them
through the wrong end of his field glasses. As to.
the third query, “Why black lettering, three,
inches in height, can be read easily at a mile and
a-half with the naked eye ? ” I presume that the
letters read “Free Drinks.” That legend can be
seen a very long way off.
THE OLD SOU’-WESTERN WAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in the careless days
Of the old sou’-western ways
That we fell an easy prey to Beauty’s charms,
Flitted lightly here and there,
Dallied mostly everywhere,
Sipping nectar from the blossoms on the farms.
We had scores and scores of girls
(Tan and freckles ’neath their curls),
And they loved us for our trouble, more or less,
Ere we went in twos and threes,
’Cross the shrieking, salty seas,
Or along the Western track in loneliness.
But ah, often have I prayed
To the Fates that those who stayed
Far behind would share the same unmarred delights ;
The sweet old kitchen talks,
And the tranquil star-lit walks
Thro’ the bushland lone andlistening o’ nights.
And in days when discontent
With a thousand cares is blent,
Ah, I often fall to sadly thinking how
I might have settled down,
Far from city or from town,
Tending sheep or plodding on behind the plough.
How I might have trucked the wool,
Reaped the harvest bountiful,
And kept adding to my acres every year ;
How I might have been (but missed !)
Now a land monopolist,
In the place of writing yarns and verses here 1
But perhaps I will come back
When that lonely bridle track
Is macadamised and labelled up-to-date ;
When the dreamed-of bridge is built
’Cross the swamp of sand and silt,
And the track is grassed or gravelled to the gate !
Yes, perchance we’ll all return
When our hopes have ceased to burn—
In the drab and dreary twilight of our lives ;
And we’ll sadly, sadly find
That the girls we left behind
Are but memories—or other fellows’ wives.
N.S.W.
GILROONET.
TRIOLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Autumn comes across the hill,
A-stepping in his robes of red ;
With boisterous winds to do his will,
Young Autumn comes across the hill,
And leaves of gold his coffers fill,
A-dropped by Summer as she fled.
Young Autumn comes across the hill,
A-stepping in his robes of red.
S. A.
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.


"If % slb l'les deprived iWe^tie.
WiHfouT Beitfe relieved of' A
e*f*e»cl/l«re. Ityey will l/Av'e 'to rejori^db
adiow “to ab life IO5C'
[**•*]
life. TvCrfede. 2°°s«» ;„ Aulr-SoWiVff* tL aof
»
[n ! Aik‘n^^^
ffo
IjowU |
Kifi^
t
shudder-
!T
way^
Wlfo [by qlZlfyJ } freed*
7}‘S people from Ifo f
})oti<ls oj y-j.
ll U>^
ojfoj a 5"
Old'fiiya l.JlW'Mrt^
~^*T
rU^&C-
-l iQ W
m Wr
-— " fiST! 70+" So |2vy#~~ is so c'Al« •
:— '* Why, H^o«olit~yo« di<Jnt~l>e|ie>/e «« M S oWt ’
level.
TBcre is 170 os^)l^
* € * K °J-
IS, V S U A'} oi^cr
'fo 'Hje *
's r °»jn(s
\ e
M&lb
7 (oO») ei{ 'Wbitfjer .
stress °f conofafl**la^«»n
"fo 1V« Aberdeen Jj
Should be in of *
UHn: — s
Vc *7O wrHfeh
BullecKy Bill be bonio, 'fa deliVer iT"jn person.
||i[ ffiUoyd folded
Bp™. w fy Certain
public Service meijjViljo
«smjjjf
nu||j(|jr by I{w
jgmf hrjon-ey lender*,c\r-e. u
|Wr in -Mje Service.
[fo'ly Fty«r)
life
EA«{c. fas, „
VS fecK J
*' u
S u<t 9
«.r
• JHlun
H<? (ftevj'hj ✓-«■«
'W'tfat-'ffc . A
Psvt'fy
+o Confiscate
/S|>eoJ>les h ow >cs !'
\**C£tij^
REFLECTIONS FROM PORT PHILLIP.


Here behold a Right-thinking Fat-
man, his eye in a fine frenzy rolling,
tearing a copy of The Bulletin to. tatters
and dancing on the fragments.
WORKING UP THE ENTHUSIASM.
Our artist, on receiving instructions
to do a page on Empire Day, is here
seen endeavoring to imbue himself
with the proper spirit.
IMPERIAL FEDERATION : An experi-
ment in allegorical drawing.
THE IRREPRESSIBLE.
The Bulletin had a dream the other night. It dreamed that
the house was on fire and Bruce Smith was being rescued
with difficulty from a top-window. Half-way down the
fire-escape he seized his opportunity and stopped ito.
make a few remarks to the cirowd.about Empire Day.
' ‘ ■' .. ‘ ■-■ ' : 'tv p ’’
In Asiatic quarters the enthusiasm is
quite spontaneous. “Hullabl (also
Banzai!) our Empire I ”
Now, children, this is Empire Day. And you are here to celebrate the
glorious Empire. You will all have a bun and a bottle of ginger-beer. First you .
will sing “ Rule Britannia,” and give three cheers for Me.
- This isn’t a criminal in a fit. It is
only a suburban alderman rehearsing
his empire Day speech in the back yard
before he discharges it at the miserable
school kiddies.
' ; « -ss
EMPIRE DAY.


«s»
\
When the teeth are
cleaned with Odo! the
whole mouth is reju-
venated as the body is
by a bath.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting foi'
several months (the half-size bottle I/O).
Of all Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Reported from England that Joseph
Chamberlain’s health is failing. He is 70, and the
weight of his political sins and his orchid begin to
drag his head forward and downward.
John Nankeville Thomas, aged 77 years,
who died in the Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, and
whose remains were cremated at his own wish,
had been for 22 years in the employ of an under-
taker. He knew.
Some birthdays : Speaker Holder was 56
on May 12; Chief Justice Madden was 62 on May
16; Henniker Heaton will be 58 on May 18:
Missionary J. G. Paton, 82 on May 24.
Macnamara, one of the earliest battlers of
the N.S. W. political labor movement, is now a
victim to phthisis, and in very poor circumstances.
.The Bulletin will gladly forward to him any
help that old friends may care to offer.
Captain Neitenstein, formerly in charge of
the Sobraon, then Comptroller-General of Prisons,
and finally now appointed to the Public Service
Board, sets the Service thinking. First he was
engaged in reforming those who had taken the
first step towards, becoming criminals; next lie
took the proved criminals in hand; now he’s got
his eye on the Public Service.
It is hard to understand why the Westra-
lian Cabinet found it necessary to go to England
for a judge. The experience of the Eastern States
puts the Australian-trained man right on top of
the imported law-twister. On the Vic. bench
for example. Madden, Hodges, Hood and Cussen
are all Melb. University men—like every leader
of the Vie. bar, except Purves.
Stated in the press that Senator Staniforth
Smith may be appointed Governor of Australian
Papua. The appointment, on the face of it, would
be an excellent one,, as Mr. Smith seems to know
more of the Possession than any other Australian
now in the public eye. Certainly some change
the present London-Johnny administration
should be made ; and that immediately.
THE CRY OF THE PATIENT.
Majorities are often wrong... The country is ruled
by a minority.—ARGUS.
"Poor soul! Raving again."
“ Yes, goes on like that orl day."
Edward Spicer, who died this week in
Adelaide in his 90th year, was reputedly the
richest ready-money magnate in the State. He
was a good Methodist, and knew as well howto
stmk to his cash as to make it. His grandson
dmd on the same day, and they were buried
together in the same vault. Hard to wait so lone
and then to miss the big bequest left him in the
old man s will.
Dead in Adelaide, aged 82, Miss M.
Aldersey, a veteran educationist, who in oast
years taught a large number of S. A.’s youth and
beauty to spell cat ’ and other things. A decade
or so ago Miss Aldersey’s school at M'Laren Yale
was the foremost female cramming institution in
South Oss, and past pupils tell that the old lady
was the most delightful and popular school-m's-
tress ever invented.
• I , llave to report that I was last
night at Flinders-street railway station (Mel-
bourne), and saw T. Bent running for the train
with two Frankfort sausages and a roll. Later I
saw him consuming the provender in a dimly-lit
second-class carriage. I like Tommy. He is off-
hand, democratic (in many things), and devoid of
trill. He does twice as much good work as Car-
ruthers, yet who ever saw Joey rushing for a train
with one bread and two meats in his hand, or con-
suming a pound of corned beef in a public vehicle ?
Died, at Barcom Glen, Sydney, aged 71
years, T. J. West, city alderman, who was born
° p ~ t Pt,r Bpot where he died. He was the son of
Übed West, who was born in Pitt-street, on the
site of Hoffnung’s warehouse, in 1807. Obed’s
father, Thomas West, arrived in 1800, free, and
was the first man in Australia to start a’mill
worked by water power. Grandfather West
seems to have been the only one in the family who
put up anything of a record.
Frank T. Bullen sold the “ Cruise of the
Cachelot” (which paid the publishers hand-
somely) for £5O, though later on the publishers
voluntarily increased this to £250, Bullen left
home at the age of nine to “find something to
eat. ; kept a stiff upper lip through many
vicissitudes, which included jobs at billiard-
marking and scraping potatoes ; educated himself,
with the Bible, Shakspeare and Milton for text-
books ; and proudly looks back upon a day when
he was “converted.”
Keith Ramsay, who died in Dunedin on
May 4, aged 62, belonged to a mysterious class of
Scotchmen very common in that town. He had a
little murky office like a two-roomed blot down in
the neighborhood of Crawford-street. He started
as an agent when he was 21, and kept on agenting
all his days. He had something to do with coal,
and his premises looked it. He was connected
with two or three small steamers which seemed to
have very little moans of support—they mostly
lingered about looking as dusty as the office. Yet
Keith Ramsay, son of a hard Perthshire member
of the Presbyterian persuasion, was piling up
money all the time, and had a hand in almost
every enterprise that was worth having. He
leaves much siller, a family of nine, and a square-
built Presbyterian reputation.
Died, last week, Henry Maxted, one of
a Sydney family which used to thrive on its
fellow-creatures misfortunes. Sydney Maxted
was for years Director of the Government chari-
ties and asylums. Edward Maxted was manager
of the Sydney Benevolent Asylum, and Henry
now deceased, was formerly head of the Bank-
ru P tcy Court. Poverty, old age, and insolvency
kept the Maxteds afloat. They were all clever
writers, and Henry used to more than dabble in
journalism.
One Rankin, who was mentioned rather
gloomily in Sydney Bankruptcy Court last week,
seems to be a person who is sanguine even in his
insolvency. _ He has failed twice. The first time
he valued Ins assets at £950 135., but all that the
assignee managed to fish out of the troubled
waters was 2s. 3d. On his second failure he valued
his assets at £77,040 17s. 9d., and the assignee
contrived to rescue £llO 12s. Id. in actual cash.
® court, after deep consideration, found a ver-
dict that Rankin was an incurable optimist.
Profit Dowie, when he heard, in the place
of exile where he had gone to recuperate, that
Zion was slipping, made a final effort to assert his
divine mission, and telegraphed about how he had
just healed himself of ten or twelve incurable
diseases:—
Overseer-in-charge, Zion City, Illinois.—Psalm Ninety-
one. Week of wondrous blessing'. Details reserved for
letter. Serious symptoms suddenly appeared Lord’s Day
last. Prayer for guidance offered and direction sought.
Liven. Obedience brought immediate blessing. Many
open sores had appeared. Legs and feet were rapidly
decaying. Could not walk a step. To-night not an open
sore on my body. My feet and legs are becoming nor-
mal. Have just walked around my verandah, a distance
of two hundred twenty-five feet. Restoration being
realised. I praise God for methods He has employed, and
for the joy and peace imparted. I sleep, eat, and
assimilate food, and am on the way to perfect health.
My joy at the prospect of once more being among you in
strength to engage in the extension of the Kingdom of
God throughout the world is intense. Love to Zion
everywhere. Mizpah. First Apostle.
But Zion was tired, disgusted, and broke, and if
it had been told that Dowie had just cured him-
self of two wooden legs and an amputated head,
it wouldn’t have cared.
Henry Tennent Donaldson, who was killed
through slipping down the lift-well at the Sydney
Gr.P.O., had several close
calls before the last one.
Once the overhead tram-
wire snapped and fell
around him like a serpent,
dragging him from the
top of a ’bus to the
ground. Had it been the
“live” end Donaldson
would have been an elec-
trocuted man. On another
occasion, when travelling
from Bathurst to Sydney
in the mail-train, the door
against which he was lean-
ing flew open, and he went
in great haste down an
embankment. Some time
afterwards he tried to
board a tram-car which
got off the mark too sud-
denly, and he was bounced
off the wood blocks in a
violent fashion. It was
through changing his mind
that he met his death.
He usually ascended to
his office by the stairway.
The day when his call
came he was seen to climb several steps, then,
noticing the elevator waiting invitingly on the
ground floor, he returned and stepped in. Ten
seconds later it happened.
The deceased James Ebenezer Tonkin,
M.L.A. for East Macquarie (N.S.W.) in days
gone by, had a remarkably ingenious grand-
father. The old man’s name is associated with
early efforts to raise sunken ships. His apparatus
was adopted by the Admiralty when the Royal
George went down, with Kempenfeldt and 600
persons, off Spithead, in 1782. The salvage of
the Abergavenny, an East Indiaman, was another
great feat. The apparatus on which Grandfather
Tonkin spent his life was not only intended to
save cargoes, but to save sunken vessels bodily,
and was reckoned a most ingenious device in a
period when ships were smaller than they are
now. Grandson Tonkin died after a weary ill-
ness at Forest Lodge, Sydney, aged 71.
FRANK T. BULLEN, South Sea whaler, now
lecturing under R. S. Smythe's auspices in
Sydney.
Photo, by Saron g, Melbourne.
Melbourne ’ s Lord Mayor Weedon, whose
I®* 7 “ am ? T suggests “ the fuss y little man,” in-
torrnecl a Hekald interviewer that The Strenuous
Life suits him down to the ground or down to
the bottom of his chronic frock-coat whtlh t
nearly the same thing. He revels in’ his divo* 8
consequentialities. He loves the excitement of
attending five functions in one afternoon u
delights to snatch his dinner “off the m a
piece” whilst putting on his “ evlnW T «
The blissful Weedon evidently regards L S elf as
an indispensable hustler" To be « i
Lord Mayor argues an utter I.U of „
humor; but if he had eyes losee 1 w ° f
would burst with merriment
how little difference he would make if h<f m!
dead. 1 he were
TWO SAMPLES.
JOHNNIE : “ Been to the circus yet!"
BOUND HEBE: “ No , we have circus enough here all day long-mules, donkeys, and and amount
of ciowns. You never saw such a variety show as this is.”
Mr. Arthur Hardy, the oldest member of
the Bar in South Australia, passed into his 91st
year on Thursday. He still attends business daily,
and is as keen after the 6s. Bd. as any of the
young members of the profession.
Ebenezer Thorne, who said “Hear, hear,”
or an endorsement to that effect, in regard to the
statements made in London Daily Mail about
the degradation and immorality of Australian
youngsters, is just remembered, and no more, in
Queensland. He claimed to be a journalist, and
used to attend temperance meetings, where he
would fire interjections at the speakers. Publicly
speaking, he was of no account, and it astonishes
Bananalanders that the cable-man should bother
about sending us his alleged opinions. The
views of any London bargee on current politics
would be just as interesting to the people who
dimly recollect Ebenezer.
Victorian Rep. Crouch’s unpopularity in
“officah circles” seems to be of long standing,
mainly owing to the fact that he always stuck up
for the men, and particularly so for his Queens-
cliff constituents. The recent camp episode
brings to recollection the famous “ fix bayonets ”
order, on the gory battlefield of Albert Park. On
that occasion, Crouch’s company of the 6th (then
the 2nd) Vic. Infantry Regiment was charged by
cavalry, who were evidently anxious to show
“Hastiness” towards their foot comrades, by
riding almost on top of them. Crouch stopped
the circus with the order to fix bayonets.
Out of the students at the Edinburgh
University ; this year 18 per cent, were
“colonials”; yet in the science section they
gained 13 out of the 20 medals or 65 per cent, of
the honors. Marshall Allan, of Brisbane, secured
a medal in practical chemistry, amongst 400
students. Last summer session he got honors in
botany and zoology : and has now excelled in
anatomy, sixth on a list of 250; while he gained
first-class honors in physics. A Maorilander led
in this section with 87 per cent, of marks, with
Allan, of Brisbane. (84 per cent.) next, and Miss
McLeod, also of Brisbane, third.
If the volcanic Voliva succeeds in blowing
off sufficient denunciation to smother Dowie’s
protests, and drives the whiskered seer out of
Zion, it will only be a case of paying Profit ’Lijah
in his own coin. From the beginning of his
ministerial career, Dowie had a yearning to jump
the other fellow's claim if the reef looked at all
payable. In Melbourne he first became notorious
through his performance in undermining the Rev.
C. M. Cherbury, while the latter was on a health
trip.. Dowie was temporarily filling Cherbury’s
pulpit in the Collingwood Congregational Church,
facing the back of Wren’s tote premises. When
he failed in his attempt to appropriate the church,
• ?" lir } exe d a great part of the congregation, and
with them started a kind of miniature Salv’army
of his own. The fallen Elijah can hardly expect
sympathy, now that Voliva has forcibly succeeded
to the mantle and the tail feathers of the pro-
phetic billet.
“ Two Seas ” : Allow me to enter T. H. H.
Goodwin, of N.S.W., for the Silent M.L.A.
Stakes. The following advt., from the Gunnedah
Advertiser, speaks for itself. It is only fair to
state that Thomas, during his election campaign,
described himself on his placards and handbills as
“ a worker—not a talker.” The only electioneer-
mg speech I heard him make was “ What’s
yours ? ” Advt. follows.:—
LOS I OE STOLEN,
A BOUT the beginning of March, from Macquarie-
street, Sydney, a full-blown M.P., branded
THHG.
A handsome reward will be given to any person
giving’ any reliable information of the above, in order
that, if alive, he may be restored to a heart-broken
constituency ; or, if dead, that he may be decently
interred. J
At the following election Goodwin, who was once
a surveyor in the Lands Department, decided to
inter himself.
Barries, Miner (Broken Hill) suggests
that should the local S.M., (who is regarded as an
Outback Apostle of Peace) desire to embellish his
notepaper with a coat-of-arms, an appropriate
design would be two clasped hands holding an
olive-branch, surmounted by the words, “ Can’t
this matter be settled privately?” Even the
local lawyers like to lose fees rather than disturb
the calm of the sanctum where the holy man urges
that the matter should be fixed up out of court.
And he takes as well as gives the advice. He and
the Miner “settled privately ” a little disagree-
ment they had over an allegedly libellous letter
recently.
Recently died, David Reid, one of the
pioneers of Riverina (N.S.W., at present). He
came to Sydney in 1823 with his father, Dr.
Reid, R.N., who, having delivered a consignment
of convicts in more or less good order and condi-
tion, settled near Goulburn. David was one of
the first overlanders, and helped to take 500
cattle to Port Phillip in 1838, what time the site
of Albury was part of Mungabareena station,
owned by C. H. Ebden, afterwards a Victorian
treasurer. Reid’s first station was Carrariagan-
gße, on the Ovens River, above Wangaratta
(Vic.), the property including the sites of the pre-
sent townships of Tarrawingee, Reid’s Creek and
Beechworth. In 1844 he acquired Murramur-
rangbong and Yackandandah, and on the latter
property established the first flour mill in those
parts. Later on he owned Barnawartha run. Then
i a iu Vic. Assembly as member for
the Murray. Afterwards he had squattages on
the Lachlan (N.S.W.) and Warrego, which seem
to have panned out none too well and when Jock
Robertson’s Land Act came along he took up a
selection and hung on to it till he passed over.
It is calculated that the names of the properties
he owned at different times ran to 100 syllables.
“ Murramurrangbong ” was a good instalment in
itself.


K-OMFORT from KEROSENE
Another Way to “ STRIKE- I EE.”
THOUGH to a VERY LARGE EXTENT DISPLACED BY GAS and ITS RIVAL, ELECTRICITY, there are TENS OF THOUSANDS of PEOPLE in
Australia who must RELY ON KEROSENE. Probably there is NO GAS, municipal or otherwise, for HUNDREDS OF MILES, and the ELECTRIC
“PUSH” is not known in your district. So there is NO CHANCE, for you and yours, except in KEROSENE. Anyhow, IN KEROSENE, when you
have THE RIGHT BRAND, you “ STRIKE ILE ” that will make your home A PLACE OF WARMTH and BRIGHTNESS, if only applied in the proper way.
THE MATADOR.
Portable
Odorless
Smokeless
OIL ROOM
HEATERS
Simple in Construction and Easy to re-Wick; Beautifully Finished.
Made of Stamped Steel, Nickel or Black Finish. Suitable for Bedroom,
Bathroom, Sitting-Room, Camp or Cottage, Economical and Useful.
&he MATADOR
Nickelled Reflector, Black Finish, with
Ruby Colored Wired Chimneys—
Extra Chimneys, Ruby, 1/3, 1/6, 2/6
Wired, Ruby, 2/9, 3/3, 5/-
Extra Wicks, 3d., 6d., 9d.
&/>e AHARIA
Nickel or Black Finish,
Ruby Colored Light.
LIGHT AND HEAT at * X*
ANTHONY HORDERN’S FAMOUS LOW PRICES
THE A KAMA.
For a STOVE of any sort; for a LAMP of any Kind ; for anything and everything, CONSULT
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS JSf
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
sdf
SHAVING
STICK
■
I
What is your Face Worth?
Isn’t it worth too much to take any chances with Shaving Soap?
Isn’t it worth infinitely more than the small cost of Williams’
Shaving Soap—to always have it smooth and fair—and absolutely
safe from irritation and more serious troubles?
Better ask yourself these questions before you experiment with
other soaps.
df
Sold by Chemists , Hairdressers and Perfumers , all over the world , or mailed
to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is. Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is.
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d.
(Trial Size) of Williams’ Shaving Stick, 2d. Trial Tablet Williams’
Shaving Soap for id. stamp by addressing
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
65 Gt. Russell St., LONDON, W. C. 161 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
Head Office and Factories, Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
( FOR N.S.W.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL. BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement •
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER Res Sec
1?)
w
TELL YOUR
HUSBAND!
is the one great hair food that the
Medical Faculty like to recommend, because it contains
every necessary nourishing element to build the hair up
to its former health, strength and beauty.
is not a coercive or artificial treat-
ment, it simply assists Nature —and Nature at times
needs assistance—but that assistance must be given in a
common sense manner. “ Capilla ” IS a common sense
hair treatment that will absolutely and positively cure
baldness, scurf, scalp irritation, falling hair, premature
greyness, etc., etc. I guarantee to forfeit
£lOOO if I fail to prove that
CAPILLA
will cure baldnetfsproviding: a “down” exists on the
scalp for it to work ou, or if I fail to prove that any of
the many testimonials published by me are not bona-fide
extracts from the ciient’s own letter.
Incredible as many of these statements taken
from the letters may seem, they represent only what is
occurring daily as a. result of the proper use of Capilla
Hair Tonic.
I Invite investigation as to my statements re
“Oapilla’s” hair-};rowing properties. I want you to
satisfy yourself that you are not wasting money on an
out-of-date greasy ntussy or oily preparation which would
only tend to aggravate your hair troubles.
“Capilla** is a germiscidal medicinal hair treat-
ment that will give you back the glorious hair of Youth.
All Chemists 1/6 and 2/6 a bottle. Posted (under cover)
1/9 and 3/- from The Capilla Proprietary, 160 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Correspondence invited. Advice free.
“ CAP ILL A ”
For tKat Bald spot.
df
A Marvellous Moustache Producer!
"I’ll Trv It."
CAPILLARINE
A WONDERFUL PREPARATION THAT PRODUCES
A FULL MOUSTACHE IN THE QUICKEST TIME ON
RECORD. THOUSANDS SOLD.
Price 10s 6d,
Posted under cover to any
address in Australasia,
The Result.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.


HEERING'S^
Cherry
i
V
IS
The VERY Best
y
LL
9
DELICATE & PERSISTENT
WHOLESALE ONLY
MIDOOWS BROTHERS. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE PERTH & WELLINGTON^
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
DUPUY
BRANDY
d
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
trade
ma*kTHE VARNISHED BOARD
39
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 15, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
Australian women abroad have got the Falling
Sickness very badly. They want to fall down
before Royalty, but they call the disease Presen-
tation at Court. It should be Prostration at
Court. Wives of the Agents-General and influen-
tial women in the Australian colony are beginning
to feel embarrassed and to hedge when asked
to sponsor their countrywomen for the Grand
Curtsey. Curiously enough the affair doesn’t do
them any good in their own country when they
return to it. If they don’t already know the
Best Butter here, the 8.8. doesn’t hasten to melt
before them. And their friends are not a bit im-
pressed—only curious about their dresses, and how
they felt, and if the Queen really looks like her
pictures. The two Misses M‘Micking, of a
squatter family on the Victorian side, are to be at
the next Drawing Room, but they needn’t get hot
looking for sponsors, as they have near 1 relations
with names in modern Holy Writ. Which, as
everyone knows, is “ Whitaker’s Peerage. ”
, The reception given to Grace Palotta bv the'
Willoughby-Ward-Geach trinity, at the Australia,
was a great fur show. Every second woman had
ermines or Russian sables. Miss Ben-Yussuf
who is about to lecture on. Japan, was half hidden
in mongoose—a short bluish grey fur. Madame
Degen’s ’possum furs looked very possumus. A girl
who determined to do something desperate had
put a sable necklet with a tail around her simple
sailor hat. Mr. Willoughby’s bride was present-
tall and fair, with a conventionally-good, fashion-
plate figure, and wearing a Princess robe of
pink cloth. The debutante daughter of E. P.
Simpson, a Frenchy-looking girl, carefully
finished off as with a fine drawing-pen, was the
smartest-looking youngster present. Grace herself
did her hand-shaking in a black chiffon velvet-
corselet skirt and white chiffon bolero with wide
gold embroidery. 1 *'**
At the last hour Premier * Seddon and daughter
Mary changed their minds, and delayed their
departure from Maoriland. They .will really and
truly come to-morrow (Wednesday) provided the
eternal sea does not bluff them in the Warri-
moo. A lot of Maorilanders will wallow
down outside the Heads just to let the long-
|»ckled Premier know that his language is spoken
Collections for the memorial—a cot in the
Children s Hospital— to the late Lady Rawson
have only just started, yet over £lOO has been
subscribed. The sum required is £lOOO. It is a
good form in which to honor the memory of a
much-liked woman. I
• Mr o Emanuel, the cattle king of, Westralia,
is in Sydney. If I told you how many billions of
acres he possesses—l suppose it is billions, but I
was always loose on figures, and still do compound
subtraction on the thumb of my left hand—or the
number of his bellowers, you wouldn’t believe me.
What is worse, I probably wouldn’t believe
myself, for I have quite forgotten. It was for
his house at Perth that Sid Long painted
three overmantels—“A Bush Fire,” “Flamingoes
xt . Sunrise,” and “Cockatoos at Sunset.” Talking
?f Bong—that clever artist has started classes
tor drawing and painting from still, life, the
antique, and the model. So now, any day you
may run against Sid guiding High School girls in
the flutter stage between short and long frocks to
some landscape patch suitable for transference to
canvas.
Late millionaire Peter Russell, who did so much
for our University, is having a bronze statue of
himself wrought by Mackennal. Correctly speak-
ing, it is his widow who has ordered it to keep his
memory brown at the Uni. Mrs. Russell, a lass
of Glasgow, is a stylish woman with a Scotch head
for business. She must have been some 40 vears
younger than her husband, who was in the nineties
when he died.
“Absolutely hurrah” scarcely describes Parra-
matta as it was last Saturday. Their Excellency
JNorthcotes paid an official visit to the fair flat old
vuV-l at - 1S nn ? e d w ith orangeries and filled
with historic associations, and 3000 persons gazed
and gave praise for “ this honor.” Colonel Burns
the Northeotes at his house “ Gowan
Brae, and his two bonnie briar bushes, Gypsie.
and Carrie, told her Ex. legends of the place, and
afterwards escorted her and Miss Drummond, of
the onion 1 -bagged hair, to the pavilion. Mrs.
Moxham, wife of the State member for the dis-
trict and the spouse of Vicar-General Gunther
(with a;giddy apple-green and violet toque) helped
to makq things serious and Official. "
f,..?r ier r< S been a for travelling among Aus-
tralian Governors lately. Lord and Lady North-
cote anil Sir Harry Rawson have toured N.S
Wales, .and learned all about our vast natural
the artesian supply of snobbery and
2ri! « i’ A t , B . a * hurst (which is a spot blessed
with a local aristocracy thajt traces its descent
back through three generations until it bumps up
against abi& blank,.high stone-wall), the “silver*?
tails did.ii t think,,the local member, Mr. Youmr
e p >Ugh to b A ! on t l he committee of welcome
to the Governor-General. So Mr. Young sulked
in his tdnt | when that personage arrived, and his
absence: whs noticed, and there has been great ex-
SinCe m the bovine minds of the Best
A Governor’s country trip always throws snob-
bery into high relief, because provincial snobbery
is rawer and more aggressive than the metropoli-
tan and it has for a background the Bush—the
vast, sdent, mysterious Bush. And, presuming
which Zr ,rS if 6 reaso , nabl y sensible mortals-
which they mostly are-they design to go into the
country to see Australia, the real Australia, not
addresses of welcome and our respected townsman
bowing in a baggy frock-suit. And their design is
frustrated by the local snobs, who insist on showing
them. m a more awkward mode, the crawl pacLf
clS 1C V hey r P ro{ound [y Bred when in the
cities. Remember a year when Lord Jersey was
Governor. He tripped to Brokeh Hill and Be vend
the 1 vfew See A us * ralia without a wriggle breaking
with the bar tv Was haunted by a reporter
wun the party, the representative of one of the
Sty^kow^ 0 - th ° U f ght 116 "show his
thL nl 5y how-towing from morn to eve before
counse] V ()f anoth ersey ’ being a sensible sort, took
him ” hesaid »tL r f P r Can ’ fc >’ ou hint to
thine- Tt’ tha,t f - d 9 n * expect that sort of
all tLt P.nf V rf ry T K ind ? f him, you know, and
all that. But really I d rather not.” The other
iKv e ii p rr;r? 5° d « s r »!«
torv to theT v? vas bemg affable and adula-
S approached, smacked the
him ‘‘W?' i robust l y ° n the back ’ and greeted
■lnmih r bow are you, old sausage?” The
!? y f] Journalist was so afflicted at being called an
f f ° re that he never
.smiled or toadied again that trip.
ThomaswiH be married from the
paternal Welshman’s roof in Wales. Her Eq u ity
Bar bridegroom-elect goes hence with her, and a
Thomls"fr^ ll H make u he tnangle complete. Miss
/rw!f iirm ds Say , she sa - vs ahe is twenty-eight.
(Oscar Wilde sa y s the woman who tells her age
side of U fflr I l ythmg h ) a M i‘ Gordon is something this
side of fifty, so he didn't start to solve the girl
proposition in haste.
tw run ?or -that is growing like Cape-weed says
T, ld P w t r °f high political status is wooing
fine fi<? 1 tbe j eat °/, a ? t Iove ) a fair masseuse of
line figure and good hair.
~ When a Sydney (female) body meets a body
(femaje) comm through the rye, or the arcade, or
elsewhere, and notes that the complexion, which
six months ago was like second-hand linoleum, is
now like a rose petal, the noter knows that her
friend has been on an orgie of 61ive oil. Also, that
she is still on it. And she herself buys a bottle on
her way home, ' and starts what will be a long
carouse Yea, olive oil is said to be the latest
cause of a clear, unlined skin. Its recommenda-
tion has been fathered on to the King’s
physician (whoever he may be). Anyhow
•7 , “ ,*- d -° esn b make , you like Aphrodite
it won t do you any harm. Talking of oils
for beauty culture, a Sydney woman not long ago
in the London waiting-rooms of Mrs. (I forget
her name, but she’s a daughter-in-law of the late
Duke of Cambridge and runs a most money-
making beauty parlor) to be massaged, saw an
attendant take delivery of an immense quantity
of castor oil. The common blue-bottled variety.
Sim got her 12s. 6d. small bottle of face nutriment
analysed and it proved to be castor oil with a few
drops of other things added. I used the horrid
smelly thing every night for a month but it didn’t
cause my friends to mistake me for one of the
Cruces. Grease skin foods have as their
groundwork lard or lanoline with a few
( “ O P a . of bleaching and astringent materials
added, and the market value of the ointment
can t be more than tuppence an oz. Yet
people pay any fancy price for it. A popular skin
lar novels COnCOCtor better than writing popu-
■ The best butter (as the March Hare said) was
?Pnrn ad through the audience on the'first night of
The Man from Mexico.” What a takinf title
the play has ! And, jumping off my theme-
how often you will see in the press a capital un-
consciously-made name for a book or a play.
Here, lately, there has been before the courts a
criminal case in which a Margaret Jackson is the
central figure. A leaderette on it began, “The pecu-
liar case of Margaret Jackson ” Sounds an
Anna Katherine Green title for a detective story.
But about “The M. from M.,” Miss Palotta’sgowns
-hitherto one couldn’t think of Palotta’s playing
apart from her gowning—were not remarkably
beautiful, but they were delicately so. She made
her entry amid a tempest of applause, like an
excited zephyr wearing an all-white lace dress.
Ihe design was roses and crowns—an uncommon
combination, but accounted for by the lace being
made for a coronation robe what time King
Edward got promotion. Crowns and roses around
the foot of the skirt, and on the front a great
raised rose spray. The high neck was embroidered
with silks in pastel tones. Her smart black hat
had great white ostrich plumes under one side of
the upward-jerked brim. Another frock was of
pink radium satin, heavily trimmed with cream
guipure lace* and belted with a deep belt, like a
miniature corset, in pale-gold tissue. Short, round
trains were the vogue.
Tn.tlie las); act ofj the farce Miss Palotta is got up
as a Spanish dancefr in a short frock all deep orange
and daffodil shades,- and she dances like a daffodil.
(x think some poet who “wandered lonely as a
cloud on a lot of daffodils tossing them -
selves'in sprightly glee.) The phases of the dance
at® *t c i f ®™ mine moods and coquetry. As for
Mr> Hugh Ward, he can wink and talk with his
ifrci’ f, n , ct ’ he has brains at both ends of him.
ihe Pehrl of Iberia,” ihe ballet from which the
d a ncq is extracted, must be a gem. It is a
poetical thing that plays for two-and-a-
hait hours, Grace says, who has seen it at
the Viennese Opera House. Not a word is
spoken or sung. Orchestra of 110 and actions of
the players tell the story. A girl, a pearl of a girl,
loves and lsdoved by a soldier who goes off to the
war. As she won’t accept an alternative soldier
she is cast into the sea. The submarine
monarch and his glittering court receive
kei '> ar f d . l n halls of pearl amid strange
waterflowers, rose-red seaweed and the green
seas glass she lives a life like a Swinburne
sea song. But hearing that her lover has returned
from the wars (with medals on his chest, no doubt)
she rises, and all the mermen and maids rise with
her through the pale emerald sea, and the Pearl
(having presumably put on dry skirts) and her
warrior do the dance with which Palotta and
Ward have made us acquainted. It is the syn-
opsis of a love story that had almost been a
tragedy.
There’s a most fetching, square-faced little
chicken who, pirouettes through the piece
under the mame of Miranda (which is the
Wooden Ham country’s language for Mary
Ann), knd who wouldn’t last above ten
minutes m any but a comedy household. Such
beautifully tailored mien as Mr. George Willough-
by and an exquisite named Warburton Gamble
could be done justice to only by a leader in the
Tailor and Cutter. „
It was a beautifully combed audience. Never
before did I.see so many artistic back combs
under, one roof. Diamond combs, black enamel
comlA with a tracery of dead gold, gold combs
with brilliants, and one of tortoiseshell with the
name of “ Carrie ” done in peridots. Fancy wear-
ing your name m your.back hair ! Talking of back
nair: Miss Linda Byron Moore’s hair (she is a
Melbournian) made picturesque the box she was
in. It was an airily-coiffed pile of golden fairness,
and set the circle asking at interval time, “ Who’s
the Girl with the Hair?” So many women do
their hair to look like a chaplet of distended
sausages.
A parson lias been saying that there is a great
revival of religion in Berlin. All owing to the
Empress, who “dearly loves to build a church,
give it a bible and choose the text for the dedica-
tion sermon.” So piety is fashionable in Berlin.
One may imagine the Imperial Bill’s moustache
brushing the doorposts as he goes to listen to the
dedication sermon which he could have preached
so much better. Louis XIV. used to have pious
intervals when he was about 40—in later years he
took to piety as a steady job—and whilst they
lasted the court had a sad, sour time, dressed
drably, and discussed the merits of different
preachers. But when the King came out of his
attack the court went back to bon mot making,
gay clothes, and neighing after its neighbor’s wife!
After seeing “ The Fatal Wedding,” I am in-
spired to write the following :
The Worst Woman in Wodonga.
A night of murk and mist, and out of a sky like a horned
malediction a half-moon looked down on Alys Effingham
hurrying down the deserted street. She drew her beau’-
titul furs more closely around her, and almost fell over a
body lying across the path. Stooping, she peered into
the face on the footpath, and, starting back, shrieked
My God ! My husband ! ” A hundred yards off an Irish
policeman, coming stealthily out of the side-door of a
hotel, heard the shriek, and recognised it as that of a
society lady for whom he had been searching. Coming-
up at a run, he forced a citation for divorce into the icv
hands of Mrs. Effingham. “ But death has divorced us,”
moaned the misjudged wife as she pointed to the corpse
on the kerb.
“ Make no mistake, ” hissed a voice, that of Gladys Doone,
at “ e r elbow, 4 Laurence Jago is as bad a shot as he is a man
—fortunately for me. Your husband will live to be my
husband. Gladys Doone’s black eyes flashed. She was
dressed from toque to toe in costly crimson chiffon and
satin. The shrinking Alys sobbed “ But I never did you
any harm. Before the Worst Woman in Wodonga could
reply the report of a revolver rang out, and the police-
man who had been going through the wounded man’s
pockets dropped dead, shot from a window of the hotel
by the housemaid he had betrayed.
The famous divorce case of Effingham versus Effingham
Laurence Jago co-respondent, had been called for
hearing. A woman was selling violets just without the
doors. She wore a sun-bonnet and a long cloak.
B. Effingham, the petitioner, pacing sadly into the
court, groaned at sight of the flowers. “My wife’s
favorites, he said ; “give me a bunch.” Alys handed
him the violets with one hand and with the other tore
off her disguise. “Why,” he asked coldly, “have
you clone this?” “So that I might speak to you
once more,” she sobbed. “0, Philip, my husband, I have
been true to you in thought and word and deed.
You are the father of your children, and I am the victim
of a conspiracy. “ False words, false woman. Did you
not meet Laurence Jago on the gangway of the Orontes
half an hour before it left ? An assignation ! The proofs
of your guilt ? You drew down your veil as he raised his
licit. But I was coming off, Philip, after saying good-
bye to mother. He was going away.” “But he didn’t
£°-, Your signal brought him back.” “No, no, my
husband, the police launch brought him back. He was
arrested for forgery.”
At that instant Gladys Doone, dressed in orange and
gold radium silk, came out of the court and, taking the
broken-hearted man’s arm, said, “Congratulations,
Philip, your decree nisi has been pronounced. And the
children »a ltlnB' t o know if you want the custody of the
~ resumed her disguise, but her lips were set tightly.
He and she shall never have my children,” she said,
and turning, saw the funeral of the murdered policeman
passing down the street. In one vehicle Mrs. Effingham
recognised her faithful nurse, butler and cook, and they
recognised her despite the ugly bonnet and cloak. Gather-
ing around her they exclaimed against the injustice of
her divorce The three of us,” said the butler, “over-
heard Mr. Jago and Miss Doone planning to get you
divorced. And she was to give him £2OOO on the day
Mr ; Effingham married her. She signed a paper, and he
put it into a tin box and buried it in a vault in the very
cemetery we are going to.” J
Philip Effingham, looking over some obscure city pro-
perty of his, entered a squalid pawnshop. From a high
shelf two pretty little children looked down. They were
numbered after the manner of pledged articles. Effing-
ham reeled, but, recovering himself, exclaimed, “My
God! my children!” The pawnbroker explained that
three years ago their mother, a most respectable seam-
stress, had pawned them, but that of late she was in
arrears with the interest money and ” “Enough ”
said Effingham, and he put the pledges into his moto’r-
« “ j OU T r wed ding day is fixed,” said Jago to Gladys,
~ 1 want an advance on the promised £2000.”
« i,u rge J’ she sneered, “is your sentence already up ? ”
The advance, he reiterated. “Not a penny,” she re-
r 1 ®"’... Th ® n the document goes to your intended hus-
band this afternoon.” And he rushed from the room.
Gladys quailed. She went to the stables and talked
H y tn° g v° om - “ Take , him oufc to sea and throw
tions d the tm b ° X overboard >” we re her final instruc-
“ She litUe knows I was poor Mrs. Effingham’s butler ”
? d F°r m ’ F he crouched behind a tombstone
and waited for Jago to come out of a certain vault.
Thirty days later, as a liner was going through the
14 sraz^, an e , no ™ ou s iceber?, on the summit of
" hlch was a solitary human being holding a tin box. The
mass of ice split with the impact, and as the upper half
shdlnt down’ fc he tn ma H T it; Spr F g for the niast ’ and >
P n w, the , deok > gave hls name as Laurence
Jago, and booked a saloon passage.
It was a brilliant bridal breakfast. Gladys Doone had
been Mrs. Effingham just half-an-hour. As she cut the
first piece of the bridal cake a servant came and whispered
a name in her ear. She paled and left the room. In the
library Laurence Jago awaited her, an evil smile on his
face, in his hand the box that held the fatal paper. With
a cry of fury she sprang upon him, and, failing to wrench
Jb® box away, she bit him on the wrist. At once symp-
toms of acute blood-poisoning appeared. He fell anH
writhed on the floor, and Gladys watched him die. She
wifeTiL Iffi ker ffue ? ts > st as th e discarded
wife, Alys Effingham, entered the library by another
door, intendmg to ask her ex-husband to let her see
a e tin box lay before her dbodyof 0116 ° f her enemies and
Guilty Gladys, looking up as she cut the cake, saw
Alys enter the room, holding a tin box in one hand and a
paper in the other. With a shriek, “My God all is
known,” she plunged the knife into her bosom and fell
Alys ffi a hi h s e armsT' made husband ’ s feet i usfc as he Gasped
Besides being responsible for the above, “ The
Fatal Wedding” was the cause of Florence
Young s accident on Friday. She was rehearsing
the burlesque on the melodrama that has been
introduced in “Florodora,” and fell and cricked
her spine. A report that her neck was broken
whirled around town like a maddened motor-car
Florence was out of the ‘ ‘ Florodora ” cast on Satur-
day, but back in the scented garden on Monday
night. Once I knew a mummer lady who acquired
a reputation as a wit by replying to questions re
her health, “ Well, you know I’ve never been quite
well since I broke my neck.” She really had
broken it (some) by a fall from a horse, but Sur-
geon O’Hara, of Melbourne, glued it together
afresh.
Mrs. (General) Finn and her debutante daughter,
who are living at the Wentworth Hotel, are great
contrasts in coloring. Mrs. is like a Spanish
dame, Miss like a Norwegian lassie with a weight
of yellow hair.
Tuesday afternoon is the real macaroon time at
the Australia Hotel these days. Tea is drunk to
an accompaniment of vocal and instrumental
music. Well-known singers and players take part
under the direction of Mr. H. N. Southwell.
The Cape-Want marriage in St. Mary’s Cathe-
dral brings closer a lot of old Sydney families—
the Wants, the Capes, the Conroys, even the
Parkes family and the offshoots of that old ecclesi-
astical pioneer, Archdeacon Scott.
Yours Affectionately, Akenehi.
Consider again the relative importance of
things. At Burwood (N.S.W.), last week, a
woman who was convicted of fearfully ill-using a
State child of 14 was fined (“ heavily fined, ’’ the
Telegraph called it) £2O. The same day a man
who ill-used a plate-glass window got two months’
“jug” without the option ; and a man who used
a horse got six months. The last man didn’t ill-
use the horse; if he had it would probably have
cost him 10s. He only used the animal —but. then,
it wasn’t his horse. And, as already mentioned,
the horrible maltreatment of a defenceless girl
only ran to a small fine.
From the Argus report (5/5/’O6) of Frank
Bullen’s lecture on “ The Way They Have in the
Navy”:—
The British navy stood for the peace of the world, and
he advised Australians to support its necessarj- increase,
for if they had not the defence of a sufficient fleet they
would be in a parlous place.
Age report, same day :
Mr. Bullen demonstrated his up-to-dateness by a strong-
appeal to Australians to have a navy of their own, and so
ensure their own safety without being dependent on out-
side aid—a sentiment which met with the heartiest
approval from his hearers.
Now what did Bullen really say? No visiting
lecturer will be able to shake the majority of
Australians from the determination to have an
Australian fleet, _ but as a matter of curiosity it
would be interesting to know Bullen’s real opinion.
A 14-year-old Melbourne nurse-girl was
lately charged with larcenies of loose cash and
articles of jewellery from the home where she
looked after the baby. The prosecutor brought
the case into court in order to recover a brooch
from the pawnbroker with whom the youngster
had pledged it. The pawnbroker’s assistant,
explaining how he came to take the brooch with-
out making inquiries of the girl, said she was
“ well-known to the Mont de Piete ” thereabouts.
The more often a small and early nurse-girl takes
things to the “ pop shop ” the less likely she is to
be commended to the earnest attention of the
police, seemingly. Pawnbrokers are an artless,
unsuspecting people.
“You make a lot of noise about Walter
Ward, the boy who was transferred on sale forms
from proprietor to proprietor in Victoria,” said
the dyspeptic, with an injured air. “Why, I’m
a middle-aged man, and have been so trans-
ferred 17 times this last 10 years. I was
sold with the boarding-house every time—
myself and as many as ten other boarders, with
piano, coalscuttle and sundries, going for £l7O one
time and £45 another. We could leave, of course,
but that’s not the question. The point,” and he
placed his hand over the dyspeptic part, “is that
we were sold—passed over to the purchasers with
the fire-irons and milk-jugs.”
The tale of “D. Harum ” (8., 10/5/’O6) of
how he founded long ago “ The Australian Press
Cutting Agency,” and how it died immediately
with a subscribers’ list of 0-—how, in fact, it tied
its own duck-egg round its neck and hanged itself
therewith—reminds that there is an existing
“Australian Press Cutting Agency.” It lives
and moves, and has its paste and scissors at
Lincoln Chambers, 341 Collins-street, Melbourne,
and it has no intention of pegging out. Perhaps
the management is different from that of “D.
Harum s ” show. The Bulletin has pleasure in
making this explanation. It would have; a lot
more pleasure if there hadn’t been 4d. fine for de-
ficient postage on the Australian Press Cutting
Agency’s letter. That is cutting it rather fine.
BE BEAUTIFUL!
Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery,
but at times it must be very annoying-, as in the case of
“ Valaze,” the wonderful Russian skin-food. Three years
ago it was introduced to the public of Australia by Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, and so speedily were its good qualities
recognised that quite a big- demand sprang up almost
immediately. Instantly dozens of imitations of “ Valaze ”
appeared, got up to closely resemble the Russian skin-
food. Often the food bore a name so nearly resembling
1 Valaze ” that it deceived buyers. All this was very
flattering, but at the same time decidely aggravating, for
often not only worthless, but positively harmful so called
skin-foods were trading on the reputation of “Valaze.”
The nourishing, restoring, soothing and healing qualities
of the genuine “ Valaze ” are widely recog-nised. Price,
3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Comtesse Potoeka’s
Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) “Valaze” Herbal Soap, (2s. cake).
Comtesse Potocka’s “Creme Promenade,” for outdoor
entertainments, 3s. 6d. jar. “ Valaze ” special “Black-
head and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed, 3s. 6d. jar.
“Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in your home from
Bs. 6d. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service, Sydney,
leading chemists, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Free.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial. Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Co., 3G4a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing- affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. ‘ After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure," she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77Swanston St., Melbourne.*
i
m
&
7 tier.
am
7
i
-
’ ' ~':
wp r\
We Recommend . . .
FEATHERWEIGHT
or GEM
For your Ball Dress.
AMBASSADOR
For Outdoor Costumes.
tK importance:
A Well DrejjedL&dy MvyE
HaVc a Good Figure, a * * **
1 Ensure Ihijj bxW2&rii\£> j
I Oalv Ii
4
ft
m
&A
hXK.
'&M
m
as»
©
©
:et
VVJ
VJK
jrw
o
f FOR THEM’
• AND a i
SEE 9a
THAT YOU
l GET
I^THEM^
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 15, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Fitzpatrick-Armytage wedding even
eclipsed that sensational pink Oliver match The
Armytage clan broke into extravagance," and
added any amount of frill and silver to complete a
wholly theatrical effect. The bride was almost
lost to sight in a sea of exquisite fal-lals —a,
foundation of heavy glace with a series of over-
dresses and a five-act drama of interesting and
almost exciting decorations ! Accordeon-pleated
gauze, Brussels net, floss silk, bebe ribbons
pleated chiffons, ducliesse satin (any one of which
would have composed a small person’s dress) were
leagued together in one resplendent whole Won-
derful laces draped the pretty 15-carat head and
veiled the omnium gatherum. Guests and specta-
tors peered like second-hand dealers at the laces
of great value, lent by the relatives and intimates
Two children in theatrical rig helped to bear
some of the great wilderness of snowy train. A
team of attendants, harnessed up in silver cords
and blue and cream trappings, followed that
gorgeous creation down St. John’s aisle and
swarmed round when the Voice breathed.
The two plain, untrimmed figures in that over-
powering clothes picture were the ’groom himself
and Captain Guy Madden who barracked solus
for the he-prmcipal. Captain Arthur Fitzpatrick
ex-aide, ex-fighter, ex-many other things, wore
the smile on his grim jaw that he displayed only
when he intentionally kept an Ex. waiting for the
Gor-save signal. At such times a saucy grin
softened the jaw’s outline and made the' much-
canvassed private secretary a likeable captain
Ihe Clarke and Talbott!e Exes, liked him none
the less, and went to quite a small trouble
(Governors are not given that way) to set
a public blessing on his fortunes. This
blessing helped them considerably. Wed-
nesday’s match crowned them. Miss Army-
tage is one of a large brood with a local history
that started with the teething days of the State
A big bachelor brother gave her away He is the
Hercules of the Melbourne Club, and little bride
sister was always a pretty shrimp beside him.
Marms relate with bated breath how Miss
Armytage—the bride of the week—took lessons in
cm > p-grilling and egg-poaching before entering
tne double state. Also, how ‘ ‘ she stitched all her
own initials on.” A big thing if, like the Girl from
Kay s, she “ had a dozen of everything.” They
put down all the virtues of the canonised saints to
the gilt-edged bride. It seems too much perfec-
tion for any one marm to acquire.
The cheques received by Captain Fitzpatrick’s
bridelet run into four figures, while the silver and
electric plate gifts will furnish the future domicile
five times over. When toast-rack and mustard-
pot No. 1 wear out, reserve supplies from the
matrimonial store-room will take their places.
As for the clocks ! Half Toorak thought of sup-
plying the time to the newly-linked pair. When
all are on tick, something like two dozen clocks
will be marking the age of the domestic day for
the Fitzpatricks.
A political scandal is on the brew, and the
witches of the sex squat round the cauldron, wait-
ing breathlessly for a boil-over or at least a singing
of the pot that may be interpreted aright. The
politician in question has been showing some
favor to an individual undeserving in the public
eye. The man himself reckoned he was only
getting his due, and allowed his missus to do all
ttie thanking necessary. That, it is alleged, was
m the politician’s programme. But the dame is
said to have overdone her thanks. Divorce is
threatened and a scandal of an extremely sordid
nature.
Complications have arisen over a big medico in
another city who leased his practice. The
lqcum who secured the post had a charming mate,
the Cream called. Then it transpired that the
pair lacked the formal tie of wedlock. It wasn’t
that they had forgotten. They couldn’t, each
haying a partner already. Decrees nisi were
being sought by the original mates in separate
suits. Meantime they lived in hope. So the
Cream has crawled back into its jug.
A very large, brainy audience took off its hat
(most of it had its hair off already) to a Browning
discourse, delivered last Thursday by Rep. H. B.
Higgins under ’Varsity auspices. The Athenaeum
Hall never held an audience with a bolder show of
brow and bump. Even a Toorak dame of high
degree—Mrs. Albert Miller—coming late, had to
crush her elaborate grey and pink chiffons in a
small space left beside a destitute-looking poet on
a back bench. Earnest-looking girleens, who
could be prettily pictured playing kiss in-the-
ring with sunshine in their cheeks and the wind
in their flying tresses, sat forward intently and
strained their bearing to catch something of the
long dull polemics of the bard who dealt in high
conundrum thoughts and overwhelming poly-
syllables. Rep. Higgins gave the idea of having
written the lecture in his best Equity hand and then
proceeded to read it out with costs. It sounded
like a demurrer, and was a dull—most dull—pro-
ceeding.
The one good lecturer on the Poets is, after all,
Prof. Tucker, though he is given to aesthetic
velvet coats and an occasional haw-haw mannah.
He has sufficient sympathy with an audience to
respond to its moods and to consider its intellec-
tual lapses. For instance, if, in lecturing, he finds
the technicalities of poetic lore oppressing the
listeners, he introduces, without a violent wrench
from his subject, some incidental story, some flash
of humor, some quip or crank that picks up the
wearying mind, refreshes it, and carries it full
steam ahead again. The other night, when Rep.
Higgins had finished droning of Browning, Prof.
Laurie, with even more pink dome than the
shining lawyer-politician, raised a squeaky treble,
which ruined the effect of some light stories,
aiming a gentle bolt of ridicule at the poet of the
wrapt-up sayings. Then Dr. Walter Murdoch,
poetaster, and ’Varsity litterateur , stood up with
an untrained thatch and added some real gold
[“-carat) to the subject, but so awkwardly that
the bulk of the audience failed to catch and prize
The true and tried lecturer is never com-
pletely lost in a subject. He must have a kindly
eye on the crowd and learn to coquette just a little.
There must be a large number of Benedicts eon-
templating a bolt with the girl they met too late.
(How that does soothe the conscience of a stained-
glass window Miss ! No amount of flattery or
persuasion can equal that pathetic gag, “ The
(xirl Ive met Too Late.”) All this apropos of a
recent big elopement—or threatened elopement—
at mention of which seven furious and highly-
excited Benedicts have rushed to this scribe to
announce in a thunderbolt fashion that they are
not going to elope, and whoever said so must be
prepared to settle with them (a terrible shake of
the top-piece at this juncture). What a great
number of these old married Melbourne citizens
must be contemplating the terrible step ! They
were all middle-aged reproachers and announced
that they were not the eloping party referred to,
with a “Consider my age!” expostulation of
nands and shoulders that wasn’t in the least
intended to be funny.
Talk about “The Song of the Shirt!” The
masculine garment isn’t in it with certain piece-
work millinery. One Melbourne firm pays nine-
pence a time for the complete manufacture of fur
toques making the shape and covering it in
approved fashion with fur. Some hands find it
hard to finish one toque per day.
Every cold season hat is a sort of glorified
catafalque for a dead bird. And there’s such a
difference in the arrangement of the silent brood.
In some cases the hat-brim seems good enough for
the last long rest. But a few deceased twitterers
of gaudy plumage appear to make a final flutter
and curl and coquet and even frisk. And just one
or two varieties sit up on the hat crown, and perk
and glare defiantly at the feminine population for
whose beautification they were struck down in the
days of their early bill and coo. One draper
states that 700 dead birds stand to the credit of
the local dressers as a result of an early winter
sale. Seven hundred dear little twitterers
butchered and laid out on the millinered
catafalques! It’s a barbarous business. Why
doesn't an Association start a fashion of wearing
rabbit dresses, and covering a hat with a quaint
design in codlin moths or some other pest the
destruction of which would be of practical benefit?
Those who ought to know assess the portion of the
principal bride of this season at £20,000. It seems
these days that the eligible young man takes a
girl for better or worse per Troy weight.
Mr. Ernest Collins has to hand the original
illuminated outbreak of Australian gush that
marked Nellie Stewart’s arrival in San ’Frisco.
The original is a whole continent superior to the
small post-card replicas in indistinct silver and
black tones that suggested an In Memoriam de-
By the way, Manager Collins sails for the
Cold Country in June.
The Marmora bore away on its last trip outward
the most curious lot of globe-trotters possible to
herd together sardine fashion in the height of the
shipping season. A she-tripper sends along pic-
tures of the floating population :
Mrs. N. Grimwade, from the St. Kilda-road mansion,
does the deck as she would the Flemington terrace, with
a grand air, giving a garden-party smile to the leavened
few, and condescending to a word or two only on very
rare occasions. Her husband has thawed to the extent
of running the sports committee, but the girls treat him
far more distantly than he was ever prepared to treat
them. Prof. Rentoul has a forbidding air. They may
talk of fighting Larry and his platform larks. Aboard,
he looks like a very vinegary Dissenter. His clever
daughter looks dull. Miss Connie Godfrey, a St. Kilda
chick, has a capital 'board-ship style. She dresses
cutely, and looks in the picture. Senatah Matheson
rambles about airily, butterfly-fashion, sitting down only
when there’s some smart coterie in vein for airy per-
siflage. Miss Winter, who recently flashed it at Menzies
with a great display of diamonds, admits a few to her
smiles. She’s a fair trifler, spoilt by too much cash
dignity. There are a Mrs. and Miss Morgans, from
Sydneyside, who are getting heaps of fun out of our
mixed crush aboard.
An ocean-traveller sends word of a very slow
English officah who aide-de-camped it in one
of the States for a time and threw up the
office to go forth into the wide, wide world to
wed a titled globe-trotteress. “He looks slow
and particularly gloomy, but I hear the spinster
in question suffers from rheumatism so badly
that often she loses the use of her natural
supports. These collapse, and the fair one folds
up like a punctured concertina. Probably the
officah knows this, hence the gloom. However, I
hear, too, that when the touring spinster isn’t
from rheumatism she’s bright and
amiable. Fancy sitting on deck for pretty well
five weeks with the picture of the occasional
collapsed-concertina lady for a future mate in
one s mental focus.
The suburbs gird up their loins for an outburst
of sprees—mostly in the polka form. Mayors and
sports seem to be most keen on gettng up hops for
the furtherance of gentle gaiety, and the dehut of
the local Innocents. Poor Innocents ! More to
glut the market.
The tight little Island actually boasts a lordling
to caddy for Governor Strickland. The arrival is
Lord George Dundas—son of the Marquis of Zet-
land. Such a heavily-labelled identity to bring
down to stamp-licking for a small automatic Vice-
Regal !
?, n ® Australian Ex. to lustily work the
V.-R. r6le for all it’s worth is Governor George Le
Hunte, who cheerily sets forth week after week to
see the sort of country apportioned to his Vice-
Regal care and concern. He makes a spree of the
business, gets about breezily, sees everything,
MRS. BOOTES, recently shot by her husband at
Manly (N.S.W.), the husband afterwards
committing suicide.
goes everywhere, laughs, chaffs, and knocks round
the land generally. When in the Holy Capital
itself, he walks abroad on his own, when and how
he lists, bangs a cheery boxer on the side of
his bump of veneration, and has all the appear-
ance of being a real live good sort instead of a
deputy-imperial paper-weight. Sometimes (an
Adelaide girl tells me) he inserts his head into a
bazaar group fixed for the camera bolt and gets
snapped with a crew of unconscious girls. He
uses up a fund of energy and good spirits, and
makes six foot three of geniality in the land.
This State glories in a good sort of V.R. private
secretary at last. The Hon. Vic. Hood turns out
to be a right bower, and the best card in the
whole V.R,. pack. He may lisp at times of great
agitation or botheration, but he’s a man with a
decent sense of dry old duty, and none of the
usual caddy affectations.
Several exciting pictures of she-anglers pub-
lished in a local weekly suggest the exact relative
position of the Social Miss to the deep sea of
ehgibles. One view of a fisheress getting a
bite is eloquent of the local Beatrice kindling to
enthusiasm at a probable catch, and another,
showing the sport actually landing a two-pounder,
has a glow of eye and wholesome look of rapture
that the fashionable Miss wears only once in her
Jiff 3 when the eligible is branded, sealed, and
labelled hers. The sex is always fishing—it is a
recreation peculiar to the species. If it isn’t fish-
ing for everyday compliments, a little flattery, a
husband, or a scandal, it is looking for a row or a
bangle.
At a Melbourne emporium a holidaying dame
from Launceston (Tas.) recently bought and paid
for an enormous sideboard. Then she realised
that her house was not big enough to fit the piece
of furniture, and the door wouldn’t let it in. So
it has gone into a store, and she has gone back to
Tasmania to economise for a year or two, by which
time she hopes to be able to send for the mon-
strosity, and move into a house to match. She
was quite free and contented before. Now she is
a slave, driven hither and thither by a bloated
piece of furniture, which threatens to put her into
an early grave.
The ’Varsity flag had hardly completed its last
flutter when the Bent State put itself into its
official best bib and tucker for the coming of the
Chrysanthemum fleet. The brown Admiral and
co. shine like well-polished mahogany furniture
and their smiles are flanked by a double file of
flawless ivories. Otherwise their little monkey
heads and flat features are same as any other boy
brownies’ from Mikado-land. But the local girl,
or some of her, looks with a kindly eye on the
little chocolate boy in blue, and wants badly to
take him home in her satchel and feed him on a
diet of milk-lasses and cream puffs. In Collins-
street every brownie is peered at, ogled, some-
times even embraced in a warm, comprehensive
feminine glance. And the little man hurls his
chest out more than ever and goes on with an
eloquent air of reciprocity. Envy of the brown
stranger is the white man’s burden just now.
His nose is put out of joint, and he gets even to
cursing in his bitterness.
Pasteboards the size of a moderate hoarding
have been distributed by the Bent Government!
well-nigh bursting its waistcoat in an effort to do
the brown squad proud. The hoardings in ques-
ticm make their hospitable attentions known in a
mixed manner, by stating in a high headline—
‘ their Exes.”, &c., and in small type
underneath the formal rigmarole—“ Reception in
the btate 1 arliament House,” &c. ; and in another
Of Admiral Shimamura,” &c. Altogether
seven varieties of type are in use to ask the Smiths
to the Jap junket.
AStonington spree, on very mild tea and muffin
lines was to bring the Jap upheaval to a cold
dry, dignified end. Wednesday was the appointed
day, after which the midget crew will “sayonara ”
with many bobs, and plough the seas to Sydney.
Melbourne Caledonian Society dragged half-a-
dozen of the Jap naval officers to its smoke night
and marched them up the Masonic Hall with the
society s bare-legged pipers making awful noises
in front of them. Ihis deplorable demonstration
brought its own punishment upon the assembled
Scotsmen. Having heard the bagpipes, and feel-
mg confident they could do nothing worse than
that the brown visitors in due time mounted the
platform, and sang a war song. Anyhow it
served the Sandies right. The musical utterances
of modern Pagan civilisation undoubtedly are
worse than bagpipes.
~,P 16 aps t , round the town with charts.
When you ask a group of them out to play ping-
pong on the front area of Dad’s selection, they
unfoid a mighty map of the city and the county
of Bourke, and trace out the route to the locality.
Iwo of the Hashidate bunch were nearly arrested
by the force for blocking the street on Friday
one having spread out the chart across part of the
other Jappy s anatomy m the process of mapping
out a suburban route. But the force graciously
forgave the brownies and pushed on the white
blockade instead. It s useful to be brown or
yellow ochre these days.
if a tooth-paste boom on, and the boomers
show a humorous lack of thought in that they
quote the testimonials of certain absolutely tooth-
loif ' imm e rs stars who haven’t one original
self-developed molar in their head. It’s like a
certain popular hair tonic which is recommended
by a citizen who hasnt any thatch whatever
coating his globe of thought.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
A burglar, aged 68 years, on conviction at
Wellington (M.L.). said that he spent the best
part of 40 years in gaol in N.S. Wales, and that
on receiving his discharge in 1901 the authorities
at Sydney paid his fare to Maoriland. That is
reciprocity. Maoriland did the same thing for
Sydney in the case of the Maungatapu murderer.
With the approach of Empire Day the
air of N.S. W. State schools is becoming charged
with jingoism. The pupils are to be heard bel-
lowing “Gorsave,” “ Rule Britannia,” and other
'fahicking songs, at all hours of the day. Jose’s
“Growth of the Empire” is being studied by
teachers as carefully as if they were working it up
for an exam., and aldermen—especially the sub-
urban variety—and members of public school
boards are rehearsing speeches with whicli to
enlighten Young Australia. And for all their
trouble in singing the jingo songs, and their
patience in listening quietly to the labored utter-
ances of teachers and the vapid effusions of
parish-pump nobodies, the poor kids will be
rewarded, in most cases, with a gassy bottle of
lemonade and an indigestible bun, probably an
unsaleable stomach-ache remaining over from a
baker’s Good Friday stock,
Adelaide has had its first motor fatality
under unusual circumstances. A country doctor’s
driver was found dead early one morning, under
his overturned car. When it became known that
most of the hotels around had been visited by the
car during the night, the police interviewed two
other men who had been in deceased’s company,
but they said they had left him while he was still
alive and in good order, and walked home. They
were then invited to explain many bruises
and a broken collar-bone, and at last
they admitted that they had been out on a
garish spree in the doctor’s car while the medical
gentleman was absent, that there had been a wild
hurrah of liquor, and that the deceased had started
for home trying to drive three cars—a real one
and two imaginary ones—along five roads simul-
taneously. Finally they collected themselves out
of the ruins of the father and grandfather of a
smash, and, finding the driver dead, they left him
there and crawled home. The coroner’s court
spoke severely about their conduct in not sum-
moning help— getting first aid for the dead, in
fact—but, except as a matter of'sentiment, it is
difficult to see what good it would have done.
Melbourne papers are just now filled with
long letters of protest against the “brutal and
degrading” display of boxing by Squires and
Murphy, several being written by “sportsmen”
who run cronk horses, a few more by ghouls who
delight in shooting pigeons released from traps,
and some more are from the pens of people who
have been prosecuted under the Factories Act for
sweating their girl and child employees. Which
recalls the fact that, in Sydney, some years ago,
there was a man who, whenever an execution was
imminent, used to shake the earth with his
demands for tickets of admission. Somehow he
always succeeded in obtaining these, and never a
strangulation passed off without his being in the
front, row to listen to the dull, depressing thud.
There was a big fight on the evening following
one execution, and, as they left Darlinghurst gaol
together, a Telegraph man asked the visitor if
he was going to the contest. He shuddered.
“No,” he replied, “I should think not. I sup-
pose. in your business, you have to attend many
sickening spectacles, but I should be sorry to
think that you visited such scenes of brutality for
your own amusement. In the interests of the
community, the Law should suppress such horri-
fying displays. By the way, do you think you
could get me a ticket for the hanging of , at
Bathurst, next week ? I’d take a trip up there, if
you could.”


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pt>
q-O "31*0 HE-S" It-!XjX-i~
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagef), Ltd.
foreign stamp importers,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price List 3 Gratis.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty andchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- I’ine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
SHIRTS.
Tor Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
■331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
®. M9UNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
This Elastic Truss
1®
is the acme of comfort, made of
p| .. the best materials, and gives
Clastic the re q U j re( j pressure without
Truss— the discomfort of springs.
Sino-le 15/- We make all kinds of Trusses
Double, 20/- and have experienced fitters.
DENYER L'xOS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGIi ST., SYDNEY (opp. Hunter St.).
Amt at Cor. Swanslon and Lonsdale Sts., Melbourne
POLITICAL
POINTS
‘ ‘ The chief tariff anomaly to be rectified
is that of Protective duties which do not protect.”
—Prime Minister Deakin.
Transpires now that the Australian and
Maoriland Governments both cabled to the British
Government affirming Natal’s sacred and inalien-
able right to hang its own nigger.
Bananaland prepares to build 20 locomo-
tives at the Ipswich shops. The engines built
there have given much more satisfaction than the
imported article, and the Government reckons it
is worth while to keep the local industry going.
Warships seem to go as a matter of course
straight from the Australian station to the bone-
yard. The recent sale, at Chatham dockyard, of
the cruisers Mildura and Pylades practically com-
pletes the “scrapping” of our erstwhile heavily
subsidised Australian squadron.
The Jap squadron, on its visit to Sydney,
is to be given a celebration—the usual flag-
flapping, fireworks, oratory and booze. A more
fitting celebration would be to lay down the keel
of a first-class battleship in an Australian ship-
yard, and thus by imitation sincerely flatter the
strenuous Brown Man.
If Alfred Deakin really wants to get
through a mass of business in the short Federal
session, his first act should be to abolish the ad-
dress-in-reply and the utterly useless debate
thereon. There is almost time to pass a new
tariff in the period usually wasted over that un-
interesting babblement about the universe in
general.
Hughes, M.P., at Forbes (N.S.W.), referred
to American monopolies, and stated that Yankee
industries were practically in the hands of from
eight to a dozen men. Yes, and the worst of it is
that those queer anomalies, Australian Labor-
Freetraders, are apparently quite satisfied to let
those eight or a dozen Americans work their sweet
will on Australian industries as well.
THE FAMOUS NECKLACE.
KING GEORGIE PORGIE : “ A necklace of nega-
tives ! How absurd. My people know me
better than that.”
One of the paltry tricks of the Victorian
Government is docking the old age pensioner’s
dole what time he is in hospital. If the hospitals
were Government institutions there would be a
thin excuse for doing so, but as they are run prin-
cipally on money subscribed by the charitable
public there is none—not even an excuse that is
thin enough to pass under a door without disturb-
ing the carpet. The forfeited amounts are not
paid to the hospitals that shelter the old chaps,
either. They go into the surplus.
Natal is trying to raise £500,000 to shoot
its niggers with. Natal has about 97,000 white
inhabitants, 101,000 imported Asiatics, and
900,000 Africans, who object strongly to pay
taxes. The handful of white people—not much
more than half as many as there are in Tasmania
—added £2,000,000 to the debt in 1902, £1,500,000
in 1903, and £2,000,000 in 1904. They now owe
about £lBO for every white inhabitant, and unless
some one will lend them more money with which
to go and shoot at the bulk of the country’s
alleged taxpayers it appears as if almost anything
might happen to Natal.
The same old
Yes-
A progressive land-tax
for the bursting-up of big
estates is entirely beyond
the province of the Federal
Constitution. Reid, re-
ported in Melb. Argus and
S.M. Herald, 30th April,
1906.
No.
Mr. Deakin is quite cor-
rect in saying that direct
taxation is within the pro-
vince of the Common-
wealth. I never said it
was not. — Reid, reported
in Melb. Argos, 2nd May,
1906.
N.S.W. City Council proposes to join in
the national jog to the pawn shop. Several of the
city streets want re-blocking and the wood paving
is to be extended to others, and in order to find
funds the Mayor is to obtain authority to borrow
£60,000. It wants a lively faith m the local
hardwood (even if the Mayor is a timber mer-
chant) to regard wood blocks as a permanent and
reproductive work.
S.A. Labor party is wisely abandoning its
former rigid manual-labor test for Parliamentary
candidates. The 14 men picked by plebiscite to
stand at the next Federal elections include Paris
Nesbit. K.C. ; Allerdale Grainger, who was lately
the State’s Agent-General in London; and
Vaughan, a youthful lawyer and brother of the
Single-Tax M.H.A. There were 61 candidates.
No White Australia sentiment about this:—
TAT ANTED, 3 good, general FARM HANDS—drive
’’ bullocks, plough, and fence. No unionists, and
must be black or brown ; permanent employ. Wm.
Lade, Scottsdale, Tasmania.
Scottsdale is celebrated as the only place in the
Commonwealth where the anniversary of the scrap
between St. George and the Dragon is celebrated.
There are some celebrated old fossils about there,
and Bill Lade is their prophet.
San Francisco is to be rebuilt a city of
steel. Millions of tons of steel will be used in the
task, and every ounce of it will be manufactured
in the States, under a tariff which is a tariff. Sup-
posing Sydney were destroyed by fire or earth-
quake, where are the Australian foundries and
workshops with which to supply the rebuilding
material? How many millions of tons of steel
would be dumped on our shores to cope with the
demand ?
The great Owe’Sullivan, when he was going
strong, had a mysterious scheme which started
with the erection of a costly and magnificent
chimney at Miller’s Point, Sydney. When the
chimney was finished the bottom fell out of things
and the rest of the scheme never materialised.
Now Carruthers proposes to turn the Mint out of
its old quarters, and a new Mint is wanted, and
Owe’Sullivan urges that it should be built on to
his chimney so as to take away the nakedness of
the unproductive landmark, and prevent that item
of loan expenditure looking so like an insane
brick hole in the air.
Victorian Protectionists have to decide
whether they will take the decision of the Labor
Leagues, to fight to the death even
against those members of the Pro-
tectionist party who have stood by
Labor in this Parliament, lying down.
In politics it is not wise to take attacks
of that sort lying down. The Protec-
tionist organisation in self-defence
should hit back and make the nomi-
nation of the first Labor candidate to
oppose a member of the Isaacs wing
of the party the signal for opposition
to every Laborite in the State. Such
a course might result in the loss of a
seat or two to the Tories. That would
be a harsh price to pay for teaching a
lesson ; but, as the lesson is necessary,
the price, whatever it is, should be
paid. With faith-breakers it must be
war to the knife.
Charles Atkins, the hard-work-
ing President of the Victorian Chamber
of Manufacturers, who shouts Protec-
tion all the time, is to be backed by
Melbourne Age in his candidature for a
Senate seat at next Federal elections.
Of the three retiring Victorian mem-
bers—Fraser, Zeal, and Styles—the
obsolete Zeal has decided to leave
voluntarily instead of having depar-
ture thrust upon him. Fraser, having
lost the countenance of Dawvid Syme,
will perhaps get the Argus support.
But he was lately on the sick list, and,
now that his forlorn colleague Zea.l is
dropping out, old Simon the Sec-
tarian may follow suit. Fraser’s re-
tirement would improve the chance of
victory for the three Labor candidates.
The old man commands sympathy out-
side of the sash-and-badge clan. His
violent Orangeism is so pathetically
sincere.
The Greater Melbourne Commission, ap-
pointed some four—or 40 —years ago, got out of
its grave last week to report in a weary whisper
that nothing could be done without the concur-
rence of the interested councils. The “ interested
councils ” ! Apparently the interested people, the
people who are misgoverned at great expense by a
vast number of unnecessary, puffed-up aldermen,
who mostly speak for Proputty—apparently they
don’t count.
Shaw Lefevre, in the February number of
the Contemporary Review, has an article on
“Rival Navies,” and mentions a thing or two
worthy of note. This is one of them :
It may be as well to subject the existing navies to a
critical estimate of their comparative effective forces as
tested by the experience of the recent war in tfijFar
East Turning now to the British fleet, we must, in
spite of the holocaust of 150 useless ships condemned by
the recent Board of Admiralty, strike off as ail but use-
less six battleships of the second and third class, one of
the first class—the Collingwood, launched in 1882 ; one
coast defence ship—the Rupert ; and four armored
cruisers of the Orlando type. We must also exclude no
less than S 7 protected and unprotected cruisers of the
first second, and third class, including the Powerful and
Terrible which it may be confidently maintained that no
Board of Admiralty will ever venture to send to sea in
time of war with 800 men on board.
Shaw Lefevre has been connected with Admiralty
management in the Cold Country, and should
know what he is writing of. This is what we get
for our share of the precious naval arrangement—
our very flagship picked out from the list of dead-
beat tramps which the real British Navy is casting
off!
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
Grant
Hervey pre-
sents his dis-
respects :
Reflect ion
upon the pre-
sent political
situation, and
upon the
alleged Aus-
tralians who
are responsible
for it, makes
iue so damned
angry that it
hurts to be
civil. I’m dis-
contented with
everythingand
anybody. And
wh y not? 1
take up the
d a i 1 y Jews-
paper with
feelings of nau-
sea. I know
what is in it
before I open
it. “ The Pre-
mier of N.S.W.
comp la i n s,”
“ Mr. G. H.
Reid remarks,”
“The Prim e"
Minis ter re-
torts,” “ The
Premier of
Tasmania ob-
jects,” “Mr.
Bruce Smith
states ” —bah !
the miserable pettiness of it
all ! Complaints, remarks,
snarls, sneers, snubs—what use
are they? What use is any-
thing, for that matter? I’m
angry with Providence as well
as with Australian improvid-
ence. Why did Providence
waste that fine earthquake on
’Frisco the other day ? ’Frisco
wasn’t doing any harm. It
was just about the most pro-
gressive and most prosperous
city south of latitude 40 N.
There was room for an ex-
cellent volcano in King-street,
Sydney, right up against
where the Waily Telegraph
ought to fall down dead daily
but doesn’t. And down in
Hunter-street there is another
old journalistic institution
whose mouth oueht to be
stopped with a flying continent, or something like
that. And Providence goes its way, and batters
down a city where carpenters drew 255. per diem. It
makes me wild.
Governor Talbottle, of Victoria, carries
Jap worship to the extreme point of adulation,
when he says the alliance between Britain and
japan is not merely a union of Governments, but
of “kindred nations.” This brings nearer the
time when a Mikado will suggest that the tail of
his son and the hand of a British King’s daughter
shall be joined in marriage, and when that same
Mikado will receive a shocked refusal from a
potentate who suddenly realises for the first time
where his country has been drifting to.
“ X.C.P.” : Hop’s striking cartoon of the
Little Boy at Manly striving to roll £83,000,000 of
globular debt uphili leads me to the idea of form-
ing a party with one plank only on its platform—
“ Never £90,000,000.” With Carruthers’ Cabinet
calmly proposing to borrow £2,500,000 for the
North Coast railway, and considering the attitude
of the State Labor party towards the productive
loan which never products, this one whoop would
be worth all the rest of the politics of N.S.W. put
together.
Sydney Telegraph was terribly upset
about the Federal Commerce Bill, ft had a
leader headed “ The Great Federal Meddle ” and
a letter signed “ Butter Fat,” both prophesying,
amongst other disasters, the loss of Australia’s
export trade as a result of Government grading
and branding. And in the very same issue it gave
a list of proposals adopted by the London Butter
Exchange to be supported by that body before
the British Parliamentary Committee on adultera-
tion. Proposal No. 6 read :
That the genuineness of all butter should be guaranteed
by the Government of the country of origin, and no
butter should be allowed in (to Great Britain) unless so
guaranteed.
Will someone please give Vic. Minister
Swinburne some ginger? Else that long person,
who has a habit of doing valuable and interesting
things, promises to get tired and give the habit
best. He has battled long with the Carrum
Swamp Irrigation Trust—really a drainage trust
has got the boundaries fixed, has had valuations
made and rates graded, has put an Act through
arranging for the State to do all the work and for
the landowners to pay interest and a very gradual
sinking fund, and now—now when he thought the
whole thing was fixed—these precious Carrum
landowners want the interest reduced, the valua-
tions lowered, and the period of repayment
extended immeasurably. Swinburne was half-
inclined to be angry with the deputation, but a
wave of weariness came over him and he promised
to see what he could do.
Higgins, who was Attorney-General in the
Watson Ministry, is to be opposed this year,
it is said, by one Rain of Collmgwood,
an ex-Mayor, and once a burning and voci-
ferous light in the Sal Army. Hopes are
entertained by the Tories that Rain will
Sour down on Higgins in a devastating manner.
iut Higgins is hard to shift. In 1901 there were
8496 votes polled at North Melbourne, and he got
4958 of them, the balance being divided between
two desolate persons named Barr and Selby. In
1903 there were only two candidates. Higgins
got 11,595 votes, and S. Painter was just visible
fleeing in the distance with 4897. In the new
arrangement of things, Higgins proposes to stand
for Clifton, and the ex-Sally Army man is vaguely
supposed to be powerful thereabouts, but the
chances are that Higgins will beat him, Sarah
Army and all.
KINDLY.
SATURNINE OLE GENT : “ Now, supposing I was
to give you a pound, eh! What would you do?"
CADGER : “A pound, sir! S’help me, I’d drop
dead with pure gratitude.”
S.O.G.: “ Ah! I’m afraid I’ll have to save your
life.”
A letter from South Africa, the country
which is saved and made prosperous by cheap
black and yellow labor—“these splendid workers,
as Spruce Myth calls them :
This is a country of black and yellow people. The
odor of them is in my nostrils. Vegetables are at fright-
ful prices, and apples are 3d. each. The biscuits we got
for 5Jd per lb. in Victoria we pay Is. 3d. for here. A loaf
of bread costs 10d., and all meats are Is. per lb. and
upwards. A five-roomed house costs £5 10s. a month.
The place is down to zero.
There is great joy in the idea of inviting
all living members of bygone Parliaments to the
jubilee celebrations in honor of the establishment
of Responsible Government in N.S.W. The event
should see a notable gathering. What yarns the
old brigade should have to tell—tales of how this
railway came to run like a letter S to keep So-and-
so sweet; tales of how many uncles and brothers
and cousins and other relatives, friends, acquaint-
ances and constituents So-and-so. and Such-and-
such got into the service ; choice tit-bits about the
old-time prices of portfolios, the quid pro's for dis-
honored pro. notes, the land-grabs, and the
contracts. They managed to make a penny
or two without the beggarly £3OO a year, did
some of those old time irresponsibles. But no
doubt they would prefer to talk of what a lot of
honest, disinterested patriots they were.
In Maoriland all agricultural implements
are now exempt from Customs duties and come in
free. The result is, that the once thriving
machinery industry, which was the support.of
thousands of people in Christchurch and Dunedin,
has been brought to such a state of weakness that
the firms are glad to come to terms with the
International Harvester Co. of America. Morrow,
Bassett and Co., have given up the struggle, and
disposed of business and goodwill to the Rocke-
feller tentacle, and Reid and Gray (a time-honored
name in Maoriland), and Booth and Macdonald
(also an old and much-respected firm which has
deserved well of the State) are understood to be
going the same way, only sticking out for slightly
better terms. The taking over of these firms doesn’t
mean that the industry will go on just the same as
ever under Yankee management; it means that
the works which once beat pig-iron into agricul-
tural implements will now become mere fitting
shops, in which the manufactures of Chicago and
Toronto will be put together by small staffs of
fitters. Also, watch the prices, and notice how
long the fool farmers, who howled for freetrade
in agricultural implements, and got it, will get
the benefit of the prices which local industry
insured to them. When the local firms have been
bought out, the International will proceed to
make the Maoriland farmers pay the cost, and
interest on the cost, of buying up the local
industries —and serve the fool farmers right.
Seddon has been moving in the matter of Protec-
tion for agricultural machinery, but he hasn’t
moved fast enough.
No chemist, who sought in vast ages
The Phantom Philosopher’s Stone,
Has handed down that which assuages
The throat trouble always so prone
Till Woods, after thirty years’ trial,
In tests both exhaustive and sure,
Discovered a charm to defy all —
Woods’ Great, Peppermint Cure.*


ms
&
'
. :
s'
■
3 ; i
( ;
:
1;
,
■■
’ .ft*.
iiillll
r
s«
• ' ■
*• ■ ' • ' '■
.* • :
-
£ .
sw
Sfe!
fes;,-,
jj.T.40.1
ils
■• 'w;
r
i ;
; ■■ ■ « . ■
! 1
telSE
\ ,•/ *.' **■*
V
1
7T7:'
V.
'
: >,
-n, '
old on
f
Si* RE*,
~ *• MW ! ■ ' '
. >;
/§ \jT» __ • •- «.(!
: .*
,1
.
'SSI-' *
WAY- I,
R
;
J9V
, * . ..zV
, ■: , ’ , - , Sj*
- *'
J * ' • .
saa> Ww4w
r r wti j j ' r j ,
osjt
amm
s
i *
*"'" ■ '
'
B
Wg&
IS
. ’ '
Si:
J+mr
:■
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
60 CANDLE POWER for Less
ONE FARTHING PER HOUR
ordinary Kerosene.
than
with
Complete, with Mantle
and Chimney, from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS.
m
Extraordinary
Value.
Best British
Manufacture.
Complete,
from
18s Gd each.
Welsbach Light Co.
OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne.
Perry Bros., Brisbane.
Harold Colton & Co., Adelaide.
Levi Green, Perth.
Cast
4S
m
iSi
.
Lr • v\'
§M* ■
■V
isa
/A /
vJ w
cfli
•>* Swfc*"'* 7,
* . .* g
A *# £
»*s
f
If
W
E.<aA.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
d
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada, United States of America, and Europe
AqgN|S IN AUSTRALIA
GIBBS, BRIGHT & C 9
SS: SB'S BP
Particulars ©/“ Passage Money* Ports o,f Call, &c.,
forwarded to any address on application.


Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“M OTA ” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers, .
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
TIN. TIN. TIN.
To Investors.
A VALUABLE HIGH-GRADE TIN PROPERTY in
N.S.W. ; large, well-defined lode, partially opened
up ; also large area Stream Tin, open for inspection-
ready for working. Apply—
TIN, BOX 51, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents —Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle. — ~i
Brewery and Offices j
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The meeting of the N.S.W. Cricket Association
on Monday night last revealed M. A. Noble as a man of
much nerve. Summed up, Mr. Noble and the players
object to the Board of Control, which represents
the Victorian, N.S.W., and Queensland Associations, for
the following reasons :
(1) That the Board does not represent all the best
interests of Australian cricket. That it is not sufficiently
representative. That it does not contain representatives
of the Melbourne Cricket Club, the players, and the S.A.
Association. For this reason he and the players will
assist the Melbourne Club, a proprietary concern, which
represents nothing but its own monetary interests, in an
endeavor to assume sole control of Australian inter-State
and international cricket.
(2) Because it (the Board of Control) proposes to deprive
the players of the management of their own business —
viz., the English tours. Mr. Noble regards this action on
the part of the Board of Control as tyrannical, uncalled
for, and calculated to bring about the ruin of the game.
The sole control of English tours by the Melbourne
Cricket Club, a proprietary concern, does not shock Mr.
Noble’s soul. He apparently imagines that it will foster
international cricket.
(;•>) Because the Board of Control will not listen to any
proposal that the players should have direct representa-
tion. The Melbourne Club doesn’t propose to give them
any representation either, but that makes no odds in Mr.
Noble’s philosophy.
The one really interesting remark that he could
have made he carefully refrained from making. On the
subject of how much the Melbourne Club proposed to
give the players he maintained a close reserve. He
explained that it was customary for the Melbourne
Club to write to players at the end of one season
asking if they would play against an English team at the
end of the next; and incidentally threw a vivid
if unintentional sidelight on some of the past
selection mysteries, and produced an unexpected argu-
ment in favor of the immediate establishment of the Board
of Control to do the thing better. Finally he offered, if
the players were granted direct representation on the
Board and allowed to do as they liked with regard to
English tours, to notify the Melbourne Club that
this was the last time the players would play
with the M.C.O. unless the N.S.W. Association
allowed them, or, if the Association was very nice
to them, the players would intimate to the M.C.C.
that it was their royal will the Club should approach the
N.S.W. Association. Mr. Noble was evidently laboring
under the delusion that he and his followers were masters
of the position. He received his answer when.one speaker
said the Association would go down fighting, and play
with third-rate men before it would give in to the players
or the Melbourne Club, The Association then carried
unanimously the motion that the players be allowed till
Wednesday'to withdraw from the arrangement with the
Melbourne Club. After that, the axe.
* * * *
Of recent years, since the players got fat,
there has been increasing trouble over the ex-
penses. The gentry who have practically lived
upon cricket have been hungering for bigger fees,
and some of them worked the “expenses” racket to
such an extent that the Association was compelled to ask
for details. The details were startling. One “ idol of the
public” had his breakfast in bed when travelling, and
charged ss. for it every time. Another man’s trouble was
that he couldn’t walk round the corner —he had to have a
cab Whenever he went abroad, and “ cab 55.” ran up to
quite a considerable figure in his statement of accounts.
A third willow-wielder used to ask a choice collection of
kindred spirits to join him at supper or dinner in the even-
ings while on tour, and had the front to charge it to
“entertaining.” As a rule there were about,three
cricketers present, and a dozen outsiders in no way
connected with the game. This gentleman was just
“outraged” when the Association said it didn’t see
why it should pay for entertaining his friends. There are a
few more items of the same sort, but these will do for the
present. If our players like to come out boldly as
professionals and announce that they will play for anyone
who puts up the money, the position will be under-
standable, but “expenses” are too elastic.
* * * *
The troubles of the Melbourne C.C. are only
just beginning. Granting that it can keep its house of
cards standing a little longer, it will certainly strike
trouble when it proceeds to redeem its promise to the
Vic. League to bring about a system of district, or elec-
toral, cricket. Under such a system it is hard to see how
it is going to maintain its preponderance. If its electoral
or district system is anything more than a name it must
lose an enormous number of its members, and the sub-
scription list will fall ofi frightfully. If it devises some
weird arrangement by which a man may belong to a dis-
trict body and the M.C.C. at the same time, the League
will discover that the loaf the generous M.C.C. promised
it is a brick imitation. What the Melbourne Club is
fighting for is the control of the treasury chest, and if
the M.C.C, gets the cash, the League clubs won’t. The
trouble just now is that the League clubs are mostly in
debt to the M.C.C., and can’t afford to oppose it.
* * * *
Melbourne Cricket Club and the recalcitrant
players struck a bad snag in W. P. M‘Elhone, the secre-
tary of the Board of Control. That fiery little solicitor,
whose position, by the way, is quite honorary, worked
with tremendous vigor, and it is due to his exertions
that the scheming of the Melbourne Club with the
recalcitrants was so promptly brought to light. He
anticipated every move, and was full to the
chin of facts and figures, so that the half truths
of the other side never got much of a start.
He even had a copy of the constitution of the English
Board of Control, with which to knock out M. A. Noble’s
amazing talk about the players’ right to representation
on the Board. Melbourne Club has heaps of money, and
could hire first-class assistance, and the players were
playing their own game ; and neither the Melbourne Club
nor the players ever reckoned that any honorary official
would be likely to take his coat off and rage round with
an axe after the fashion of secretary M’Elhone.
* * * *
The blastiferous impudence of the Sydney
Cricket Ground Trustees in demanding that the Govern-
ment should not appoint any trustee who was not accept-
able to the rest of the members of the Trust roused
Minister Ashton’s “ Irish.” Jimmy promptly kicked the
Truston the watch-pocket, so to speak, with the intimation
that if the stand it took Was in accordance with the law,
he would see the law altered. This shook the Trust to
the very centre of its fat, and on Monday night it was
learned that it had withdrawn its objection to the appoint-
ment of Mr. Trickett. Now we should soon know what
really took place between the S.C.G. Trustees and the
Melbourne Cricket Ground—as far as the press letter copy
books disclose it.
* * * *
In the roar of the Melbourne C.C. versus the
Board of Control match the Burwood-Glebe struggle for
the N.S.W. premiership has been well-nigh forgotten.
Glebe, it will be remembered, had made 188 in the first
innings, and Burwood responded with 207 for five
wickets, thus winning - the championship. There were
only a few hundred people present, and Sunny Jim
Mackay and Diamond, who are accustomed to be loudly
cheered when they step into the popular gaze, were
greeted with stony silence. A few personal friends, who
argue that Mackay, when he pledged himself to the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club, was an inexperienced youth who
was led away by old and designing citizens, tried to start
a demonstration by cheering him, but it did not eatch on.
Considering that Mackay had just made 2064 runs
for Association matches during the season and had
put up several records, this stony silence was very signifi-
cant.
* * ■» »
When Darling opened his mouth about the
“ treatment” of Victor Trumper he didn’t put his foot in
it, but fell into the cavity bodily. Trumper wrote to the
N.S.W. Cricket Association, barracking for more
custom for the firm of Trumper and Carter. If
this could not be given, well, his services were still at the
disposal of the Association if it paid for them. The Associa-
tion took him at his word, and promptly sent along a
cheque for £5 for Victor’s “services” against S.A. Then
came the organisation of the Queensland tour by
Trumper, regardless of the best interests of the
clubs. Just, at present there is ho rule to deal
with profit-seeking excursions of this kind, but it is
understood that the Association will shortly arm itself
with power to give anv imitators the axe.
* * * *
It looks as though the outcome of the Melbourne
Cricket Club’s revolt may be an attempt to establish
purely professional cricket in Australia. In Melbourne,
on the Melbourne Club’s fine ground, such a thing might
be possible, but in Sydney there is no place outside the
Sydney Cricket Ground where the game can be properly
played ; and the spectacle of Noble, Mackay, Trumper
and co. playing openly for boodle on inferior or matted
wickets seems too great a downfall.
* * it *
The magnetic pole of Sydney Rugby on Satur-
day was the match between South Sydney, last year’s
premiers, and Eastern Suburbs, with an exhibition of
“ line-bucking ” by the Yankee footballers from the Balti-
more as a curtain-raiser. The line-bucking is another
story, but just here it might be remarked that it is more
like mud-larking than football. Nobody expected that
Eastern Suburbs would have any hope of victory, but the
team earned fame last year as a brave crowd which
played a losing match with all its heart and a stiff upper
lip. So when, immediately the kick-off was returned,
Eastern Subs, came away with a rush down the line and
jammed the South Sydneys right on their own goal line,
the public was struck dumb, and even the barrackers for-
bore to yell. South grew desperate, and things were
done to clear that line that call for the disqualifica-
tion of some of the Southern men. Souths bullocked
the ball back to half-way, but the Subs, carried
it down to the 25 again, and were only just prevented
scoring. It was not that South had deteriorated ; it w r as
a case of the Eastern men improving, and they never
slackened the attack one moment. Charge after charge
was stopped, only to be resumed at the first opportunity.
At last the South got its machine to work spasmodically,
and the leather flew down to the Suburbs’ 25, where the
mighty Messenger, who is a whole team in himself, got it,
and, with a tremendous kick, sent it almost to South’s
goal. So fast did he follow that the South backs had no
time to get going, and were forced to kick hurriedly
before getting clear of their own 25, and Messenger
snapped a mark. The shot failed. The Souths got a rush
on, but it was blocked, and the tide swept back towards
their goal line once more. They grew reckless,
and many illegal things were done. Messenger
was a marked man, and some of the South men
showed that they didn’t care much how they
stopped him, but any' preference they had was for some
method which would incidentally break his neck. But
the best of men make mistakes, and it was a blunder by
Messenger that gave South Sydney its only chance to
score. Messenger picked the ball up while off-side, and
kicking it, gave the Souths a penalty kick right under
the bar. They scored 3. The second half saw Messenger
brilliantly kick a goal from a distance of 40yds., and so
equalise the score. The rest had done Souths much good.
Once more the machine worked, and carried the ball into
the Suburbs’ 25, where Messenger stopped it. Another
penalty kick just missed supplying a second goal.
Messenger made an amazing run, charging right through
the South pack, evading the three-quarters, and
jumping clean over the full back when he stooped
to grab him. But he was overtaken and pulled down,
and South Sydney carried the ball out of touch.
Noses were bashed, and two opposing forwards fought a
stand-up fight while the rush carried them along. Com-
bination told, and very slowly South worked its way down
the field. Then there was a blundering kick, a Southern
man getting there first kicked into the arms of D’Alpuget
of the Suburbs. Like a flash he was away. Half-a-dozen
sprang at him, but he passed deftly to Rose, who never
altered. He was at half-way, and the team was left
behind, and, with a solitary South man in close pursuit,
Kose crossed the line and scored in a good position.
Again the shot failed, hut the former Premiers were
beaten by 6 to 3, after a most strenuous game.
* * * * *
The line-bucking game, as displayed at the
Sports Ground on Saturday, is a dreary scramble, a sort
of perpetual scrum, in which the ball can be picked up at
will, and in which there is no off-side. It is full of mag-
nificent resources for playing off personal grudges, and to
prevent murder, the players are so cased in defensive
armor as to be unwieldy. Their ears are covered with
armor plates, their noses are protected by guards which
give them a horrible appearance; shoulders, elbows, knees
and ankles are covered with great wads of quilting, and
it is said they are heavily padded round the hips and
groins. Finally the leather helmet has a thing like a life-
buoy (pocket edition) round the crown to minimise the
effect of collisions. All of which makes for slow play.
The Yankees, after their match was over, stayed to watch
Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney put up a struggle
that was almost a record for energy, and one Yankee,
with his eyes glued on the spectacle of a pair of forwards
unfeignedly fighting as they were swept along in the
pack, remarked : “ Great snakes, look at that! Why this !
game’s ten times rougher than ours 1 ”
* * * *
Manly’s second appearance, against the Uni-
versity Rugby team, was even more disastrous than the
first against Newtown, and this time the Villagers were
beaten 32 to six points. Some of the incidents were:
amazing. In one case a Manly man charged right down
onto the Uni. line, where the blue and gold full back
took the ball from his hands and, running the full length
of the ground on “ his Pat Malone,” scored right between
the posts. It was not football, but a joke—a burlesque.
At Rushcutters’ Bay the St. George individualistic club
went down before Sydney District, which plays a
somewhat more Socialistic game, the Socialists winning
by eight to nil. Newtown trod on Western Suburbs by 11
to five, and Glebe and North Sydney put up an amazing
game at North Shore—a game which was full of
illegalities. Glebe won by 14 to eight. The competition
list now shows Eastern Suburbs, University and Newtown
all abreast with four points each. South Sydney, Glebe,
North Sydney and Balmain have two each, Western
Suburbs and St. George one, and unfortunate Manly',
which has lost both matches, still labors along under the
weight of its nest-egg.
* * * *
In the ’Soccer game Glebe, Balmain and
Pyrmont have forged ahead with four points each, all
three, having won both initial matches. Kozelle and
Granville occupy second place with two points each,
Ultimo, Sydney and South Sydney have not yet scored.
On Saturday Ultimo put up a good fight against the
conquering Pyrmont until its condition gave out, and
the hardened Pyrmonters raged like wolves. The
score (five goals to one) would have been much heavier
but for the strong wind that fought for the exhausted
Ultimo men in the last quarter. Balmain and South
Sydney played well, but the Balmainers had the better
combination, and carried off six goals to one. Glebe
defeated Sydney by eight to nil, but the Sydney team was
deplorably weak, or the indifferent Glebe shooting would
have made no impression.
* » * *
The Australian League’s premiership table
shows Newtown and Sydney at the head with four each,
and the next four teams have a couple of points, while
North Shore and Paddington are wearing the sign of the
bird. Y.M.C.A., after a straggling sort of game, was
beaten by East Sydney, which scored 51 points to the
Good Young Men’s 16. Sydney, which was premier club
last season, met the North Shoremen at Sydney Cricket
Ground and inflicted severe punishment upon them, win-
ning by 61 to 18. But the debacle of the day was New-
town’s flattening out of Paddington. It was like Bill
Squires falling on Tim Murphy. Paddington never scored
a point, while Newtown grew sick of goals and behinds
after 145 points had been scored.
* * * *
There was a surprise or two about Melbourne’s
football last Saturday, the principal astonishment being
at South Melbourne, where the locals downed Colling-
wood by 77 to 57 points. “ Skinner’s hirelings ” have
acquired considerable new' blood—notably the best player
in the Association last year—and they have stolen and
improved on ’Wood’s famous system. Also, they have
learned to kick straight—witness their score of 12 goals
five behinds to ’Wood’s eight and nine. But writer is not,
so far, greatly mashed on them ; the selectors, appa-
rently, put too much trust in height and weight, which
advantages won’t count for so much at the end of the
long, heavy season. Melbourne put up a fair
fight against ’Roy, and looks like repeating its
last year’s early promise and subsequent falling-off.
Carlton went to St. Kilda’s ground and methodically and
placidly notched 100 points to the other crowd’s 35. It
is a pity Bent or somebody couldn’t be persuaded to take
an interest in the Saints’ team —it might thereby be
induced to get a move on, instead of being a mere League
passenger. Some 10,000 spectators watched the ’Wood-
South match, and about 6000 the West-North ditto
(Association). The other Association and Junior matches
meandered along more or less discrepantly, the results
being posted up in the usual pub-windows. By the
way, a telegraphic error in these result sheets caused a
lot of language among the weedy youths who drop into
the tobacconists’ on Saturday morning and back a double
—one League and one Association team—for highest
scores. The aforesaid sheets gave Carlton’s score
wrongly, whereupon the backers of the assumed winning
double straightway “ bust up ” their £l, only discovering
when they saw Monday’s paper that there wasn’t any £1
to bust up. As to these doubles, the laying Nosey seems
to stand on the usual pile of velvet. There being eight
League clubs and 10 Association, the backer has one pick
out of 80 combinations. And Ikey lays £1 to Is.
* ♦ * *
Adelaide’s biggest racing double, the Goodwood
Handicap and Cup, has been won by local horses, J.
Rovven’s Step Out and Allan Macfarlane’s Dynamite.
Bookmakers were not anxious to do business on the Cup,
everything engaged having been backed with Step Out in
doubles, but the local mare, Phaedra (which had beaten
Pifeness, Red Streak, and Avalon at weight for age on
the Saturday), was made a warm favorite on the totalisa-
tor. She ran a poor second to the light-weighted grey
horse, Dynamite, and her backers, under the new
arrangement by which a dividend is paid on the second
steed, got back 18s. for their pound.
* * * *
The totalisator gave the bookmakers a rare
showing-up over the Adelaide Cup. The evening before
the race 2 to 1 was offered against the favorite ; then
came a 5, two 7’s, and an Bto 1. In the machine there
were two equal favorites, each paying rather less than
2 to 1, then came a batch, all returning nines and tens.
But—and here comes in the vital difference —the tote
(under the new rule which gives a quarter of the money
in the machine to backers of the second horse) provides a
chance of “saving.” The winner would have paid, instead
of his £lO 3s. dividend, one-third as much even if he had
been beaten, and the thousand people who backed the
favorite and saw her finish second got practically their
money back. Fancy Moses returningyour money because
you backed the second horse 1
* * -)r Ik
Three men were lately- charged at Perth (W.A.)
with having obtained £125 under false pretences. There
is a difference of two hours and some odd minutes between
Sydney and Perth times, and aWestralianpaper, in work-
ing it out, made an error of some 20 minutes. The result
was that the bookmakers were cheerfully laying the odds
after the race was lost and won. Somebody is alleged to
have sent a message from Randwick with startling sud-
denness, and about the time that such a message might
have arrived a party of young men rushed the various
bookmakers and liberally backed Noreen. There would
have been a considerable downfall if all the bets had been
paid, but apparently, apart from the £125, the book-
makers refused to part up. Arrests followed, and at the
time of writing the chief hitch seems to be that no one
can connect the alleged conspirators with the receipt of
any telegram, and unless that link can be traced the case
presumably goes by the board.
* * * *
The vitality of the racing game— £4s,ooo was
paid for thoroughbreds in Sydney within two weeks
recentlv.
* * * *
There was slaughter at the Upper Manning
(N.S.W.) J.O. races Saturday. First event saw a jockey
and his mount “sent up” for 12 months. The third
brought similar trouble to another horse and rider, and in
the fourth the owner, the man who saddled up, the
jockey and the mare were shut out of the racing business
for two years. In this last case the nag won, but
weighed in 21b. short.
* * * *
Name of Quorrobolong (winner of Canterbury
Park, Sydney, Handicap, last Saturday) broke Ikey Mo
up so badly that he laid any odds asked against him.
Though Quorrobolong ran a duffer in each of two races
recently, Saturday’s performance justifies the belief that
it is in him to win in even better company when the
money comes from the right quarter.
* * * *
Most promising nag seen out for some time, and
one already labelled “ worth watching” by shrewd people
is St. Patrick, full brother to Cockney Boy, by St. Swithin
from Grand Flaneur —mare Liguria. St. Patrick won
Canterbury Park Stakes very easily Saturday last, and,
like a thorough racehorse, landing a good load of coin for
his “stable,” who had the “good thing” so much to
themselves that they got long odds first, and kept putting
the money on till better than “evens ” was difficult to
procure.
* » * *
The race between the Baltimore sailors and the
Sydney Fire Brigade crew lasted about two minutes—
after that it was a procession of two, the Australians
paddling quietly home winners by about 20 lengths. The
funny part of the business was that on the U.S. warship
the leading boat was mistaken for that propelled by the
donkey-licked Yankees, and wild Red Indian whoops
scared the birds round North Head, and the warship’s
syren blew off into blood-curdling shrieks. Then suddenly
a look of horror came over the face of one dignitary.
“ Stop that goldarned row !” he thundered ; “ that’s our
lugger bringing up the tail, sure!” And the row fell
down dead. The victorious firemen will try conclusions
with a crew off the Britannic warship Challenger bn
Saturdav.
* * * *
Apparently there are no other games that th©
sports of the U.S. war-whoop (that is to say, war-ship)
Baltimore can play. Their visit to Port Jackson was a
howling failure. They went down at boxing; Sydney’s
baseballers beat them, and at rowing they were not in the
same street as the firemen. And then, as a last straw,
the little Japs came along and took the girls who always
flock after visiting marines right out of their hands.
• * * *
The motor-cycle racing at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday produced some excitement. In the
first heat there was a sensational collision between
Witham and Murray. Murray ran up the embankment,
and Witham dashed past on the inside. Down came
Murray with a mighty swoop to regain his lost position,
but he had misjudged the distance, and all in a flash they
had collided. Whether Murray rushed on to Witham, or
whether Witham, making a wild spring to keep in
front, dashed into Murray’s front wheel, no one
could tell. The only thing that was certain was
that all but about six spokes were ripped out
of Murray’s wheel, and it was mere accident that
both men were not seriously injured or killed out-
right. Just before the final started, the rain came down.
with a swish, and the track gleamed like an p ''^
just about as slippery. Man after man d ' e "
Finlay went skidding wildly, sliding 20jds. , nj-
sion. Witham’s machine was niore fitted ~ r i ar ; n , r
on the wet surface, and,, in spite of the ns , S
wheelist reeled round the track followea y .
enthusiast, Lynch, of Newcastle, as reckles . , '
Witham won from Lynch by half-a-dozen lengths, the
third man, Murray, being 30yds. further hack.
In spite of the upheaval of the
N.S.W. Disqualified or Dissatisfied Riders, the of
Wheelmen is still in existence. But it has >ts troubles,
and secretary Mclntosh is wearing a worried look, ine
Goulburn and Newcastle clubs are talking %ht, a ndon
the side of the League there seems to be much more
inclination to deal out stoush than c / i n
is just a possibility that some injustices may , •
done in the past, but the to remedy theni is
not to join a rival association, which is largely g
by people who have been dealt with * or for the
by the original governing body. It is a fair thi g
Goulburn and Newcastle Clubs to draw Bp a straighp
forward list of their grievances and send it ’along to jbhe
League, when, no doubt, a conference would g •
There’s too much squabbling going on in sport j •
the public is getting tired, and is starting to We an
interest in baseball, kiss-in-the-ring, and other degene-
rate, not to say immoral, pastimes.
* * *
C. B. Kellow and H. B. James put up 556
miles in that 24 hours run—an average of 26S miles an
hour for the whole distance; good roads and bad
and no roads at all-done in broad daylight, fading
twilight, and inky darkness. It was done as a test and
onlv a lunatic would expect to derive any pleasure out of
such a run. On second thoughts someone did, and
against the Dunlop Tyre Co. it must not count for mental
weakness. The co. has been whooping ever since for thg
Australian-made Dunlop tyre sailed through the .test
without a scratch. On still further thoughts this paper
also finds itself deriving satisfaction out of the run
Anything that demonstrates- the fact that the Australian
article is as good as (and a darned sight better than) t
imported always causes an outbreak of joy in this office.^,
Died, a day or two since, in Sydney, Alec;
Small, who, in the boom days (20 years ago) of ( foot
running, when fortunes might have been won on a Car-
rington ”or a “ Botany,” had a stable of peds, and
backed them largely. Writer knew Small to make a pre-
sent of £lOOO to one Botany winner of the period, and
has heard that he acted even more liberally with others.
Smail’s figure was familiar at the corner of litt and
Market streets for some years until a few days before his
death. „ „
* * * *
There is a general impression that if the
unsophisticated child of the bush comes into the city he
is as clay in the hands of the potter when the smart city
gentleman gets hold of him. But there is a crowd of
eminently respectable gentlemen (by Act of 1 arliament
and—some of them—by design of God) who now hold a
different opinion. It happened this way A number of
bushmen came down from (say) the Northern Territory
to arrange for (say) an alligator-riding show in Sydnej%
Then someone said that the chief rider tied his legs
under the alligator’s belly, and the boss sacked him for
getting such things said about himself, and a row took
place over money. Later on the angry, unsophisticated
bushmen met in the office of a quiet, eminently-respeet-
able, church-going solicitor to settle matters, but instead
of listening to him they drew revolvers, used horrible
language, and threatened to blow one another’s livers
out. Why they should have concentrated their attention
on the liver is a mystery, unless it is large and not sq
easily missed. The solicitor slid out of his chair on to the
floor, passed hurriedly under the table, and left the office,
unobserved, on all fours. Outside in the passage he up :
ended himself and rushed into the offices of brother soli-
citors, and begged them to come and help him disarm the
lawdess ruffians who were threatening to spoil his carpet
with one another’s blood. But the legal gentlemen, with'
one accord, hurled themselves out of their rooms and
took refuge across a little wooden bridge that led to a
lavatorv, and shouted loudly for an axe with which to
destroy the bridge, and keep the awful bushmen away.
Then the solicitor heard a crash of furniture, and thought
of his bric-a-brac: This was an outrage on the rights of
proputty. His gore rose. He rushed across the bridge in
a howling fury, and burst into his office. “Confound
your impudence, you (dash) hogs. Stop it this moment,
or I’ll get you all 10 years. Curse you ! look at my carpet,
look at my pictures.” Ringing the telephone: “That
the police station ? Send down 10 constables; two howl-
ing lunatics in my office fighting with revolvers. Hurry,
or I’ll be murdered, and all my pictures, destroyed.—lt’s
all right, th’ey’ve gone.” And so they had.
There is a sensible glaze on the surface of the
drafted rules for governing the world’s sculling champion-
ship. The stake for future championship events will be
not less than £5OO a-side, and the “ gate-money ” will be
shared out even to the last penny ; while the holder of
the title must accept a challenge within three months,
and be prepared to race within six months in Australia or
nine months in another country from the time the chal-
lenge is issued. The decision that, should the champion
retire or die, the immediate ex-champion will pick up the
title, simplifies matters a great deal.
* * * *
War in Sydney ponydom rages as fiercely as
ever, and reduced prices attract bigger crowds, including
people who never went to pony meetings before. Ascot
Club, whose genesis caused the trouble, boasts of making
considerable money. All the same, associated clubs keep
on giving rich prizes and tipping that they’ll have the
business to themselves again soon.
The Standard Family Medicine.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Superior to
all Others.
The prudent housewife has learnt by experience
that Nature occasionally requires some assistance,
and that this assistance is best afforded by prompt
recourse to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In
thousands of homes the little amber bottle in
which these pills are packed is the sole medicine
chest, for there are few complaints in which Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills cannot be administered
without beneficial results. Many a serious illness
may be prevented by the timely use of these
and, being purely vegetable, they do not weaken,
sicken or gripe, and may be taken by the most
delicate woman or the youngest child. “For
some considerable time,” writes Mrs. M. Brown,
of 15 Gipp-street, Paddington, Sydney, “ I suf-
fered with indigestion and headaches, and during
that period I tried many remedies. A neighbor
advised me to try your pills, and so effective was
the result that after ridding me of the pains in the
back, headaches, and other symptoms of my com-
plaint, and restoring me to health, I decided never
to be without your medicine in the house. They
are now our family medicine; my husband,
children and myself all use them occasionally. I
recommend them wherever possible.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier and
a positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
boils and blotches, and for female ailments.*


A FACT!
Memory
Means
Money!
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OF
MEMORY TRAINING
w ill increase your power of thought-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the,
best memories ; therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet,
“Memory 'and How to Improve It.”
The Pelman-Foster School of Memory
Training,
MELBOURNE: Box 402, G.P.O.
Engiand; 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.C. ; Germany:
a Mosartstr, Munich ; France: 109 Avenue de Neuiliy,
Pans; U.S.A. : 1608 Masonic Temple, Chicago : South
Africa:: Lynn Buildings, Durban, Natal.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING
BLAND HOLT and his
IAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in Drury-Lane’s Greatest Success,
THE PRODIGAL SON.
Written and Dramatised by HALL CAINE.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES-3s, 2s and Is.
H E ? MAJEsfrS THEATRE, SYDNEY.
ai ? o Mana ' er •• Mr - J - °- WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
FLOitoboßA.
, The Brightest of all the Gaiety Successes.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 19, A COUNTRY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. l'W~ PRICES AS USUAL.
QR ITER I ON TH~E ATR E, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, the
W,LL^!! B T t , AND WARD LONDON COMEDY
COMPANY, including MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
the Famous Society and Beauty Actress, in
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is.
Tickets at White Rose.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day
YCE U M
HALL,
SYDNEY.
MONDAY, MAY 21,
And THREE FOLLOWING EVENINGS,
Mr.
FRANK T. BULLEN,
The
SOUTH SEA WHALER,
SOUTH SEA WHALER,
SOUTH SEA WHALER,
V The
POET OF THE SEA,
POET OF THE SEA,
POET OF THE SEA,
Will give his
Fascinating Illuminated Lectures,
1. Romance and Reality at Sea.
2. Whales and Whale-Fishing.
3. The Mighty Ocean.
4. The Way They Have in the Navy.
“ The wonder and the power of Mr. Bullen’s vivid
narrative laid hold of the overflowing- audiences.”— Argus.
“ Mr. Bullen has captured the people of Melbourne.”—
Age.
At all the Melbourne Lectures every reserved seat was
taken. Every night numbers failed to obtain admission.
Dress Circle, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Balcony, Is. Box Plan at
Paling’s. Commence at 8.
■ R. S. SMYTHE.
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURGIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
The finest in Australasia^
The most beautiful picture production put before
the public.
All subjects instructive and entertaining.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
Each entertainment a treat. Each artist a star
Collectively acknowledged par excellent for harmonv
and finish. J
BATHURST, MONDAY, TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY
MAY 21, 22 and 23.
KATOOMBA, FRIDAY, MAY 25.
BLACKHEATH, SATURDAY, MAY 26.
LITHGOW, MONDAY and TUESDAY, MAY 28 and 29.
PENRITH, WINDSOR and RICHMOND to follow.
R. H. COLLINS, Manager.
fITZGERAL D’S CIRCUS BUILDING
r (PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE)
E. Erskine-Scott .. .. Business Manager.
ENORMOUS and GENUINE SUCCESS
of
EVERY
EVENING.
KEMP’S WILD AUSTRALIAN
BUCKJUMPERS,
EVERY
EVENING.
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the Finest
Exhibition of Rough Riding- ever seen in the
Commonwealth.
PROFESSOR KEMP—THE DARE DEVIL.
MISS KEMP-THE OUTLAW QUEEN.
And Jack Morissey Snowy Baldwin, Tom Frost, and a
Host of Others.
A TREMENDOUS GATHERING OF TALENT BOTH
O < HUMAN AND ANIMAL.
PRICES— 3S, 2S, and One Shilling. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Richards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of THE OARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
Emphatic Success of HOMER B. MASON and
MARGUERITE KEELER 00.
LAROLA, -the Funny Man with the Funny Ways.
Mr. SLADE MURRAY. MISS NITA LEETE.
TAMBO & TAMBO, Original Tambourine Spinners.
last TWO NIGHTS of
Miss ALICE RAYMOND and Mr. JOHN KURKAMP.
HARRY SADLER. BABY SUTTON. FRED, BLUETT.
O f \ ERA HOU S E, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE THREE LEES, Vocalists, Dancers, Acrobats.
WATSON, Juvenile Vocalist Actress.
LILIETH LEYTON and Mr. HARRY KENDAL in
Comedy. Sketch, THE ORDER OF THE BATH.
MARTINETTI and GROSSI, Novelty Act.
O’NATIS TROUPE, Algerian Jugglers.
MILES-STAVORDALE MUSICAL QUINTET.
And a host .of others.
Plan at Allan’s. ligT PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
|EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
, ORGANISATION in
the Original, Novel, Interesting, Mirth-Provoking Play
FOR THE SAKE OF A WOMAN.
N 1
EUGENIE DUGGAN as HESTER DERWENT.
Prices 35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
™URSDAY, MAY 17, and FRIDAY, MAY 18,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in DOROTHY VERNON.
SATURDAY, MAY 19, MISS TITTELL BRUNE in
SUNDAY.
EW~ Remember, tfie LAST 4 NIGHTS in Melbourne.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
T HEN /E U M HA LL, MELBO U R N E.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
EVERY EVENING,
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
THE BRESCIANS,
ORCHESTRA AND SINGERS.
T* OW N HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING,
Living Lon rion & Moving Melbourne.
The Greatest and Most Remarkable Moving
Picture Ever Exhibited.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS. Cash.
GEMS £2 10 0
STANDARDS.. £5 0 0
HOMES £7 10 0
VIOLINS £2 10 0
ACCORDEONS £l5O
ANGLOS £2 10 0
ORGANETTES £3 0 0
AUTOHARPS.. 12 6
Weekly
Pay-
Terms. Deposit, merits.
£3 0 0
£5 15 0
£8 10 0
£2 15 0
£l7 6
£2 15 0
£3 10 0
15 0
10s
20s
30s
10s
6s
15s
20s
2s 6d
5s Od
5s Od
2s 6d
2s 6d
2s 6d
5s Od
Is Od
Packing Free to any address.
Terms extended to Householders only. Send for
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
albert & soixr,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War, Patriotic, Comic, Coon.
Nigger, Sacred, Pathetic, and Love Songs of England.
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, etc
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. 'Most marvellous collection ever bound together
between the covers of one book. Price only 2/6, posted 2/10.
if stamps only are enclosed add 3d. extra. List of Songs for stamo
A arru' this waver
Business Announcement;
Hatting your Head
pVERYONE wants their head hatted. It theyVe
P' the right kind of head they’ll want the right
kind of hat. A Hat that will wear well and look well
as long- as worn, ought to be good enough
We are turning out just such Hats. They’re made
wholly by it and of the best winter Rabbit fur first
sterilised and then passed through every process that
modern Hat making knows of. All our hands are
paid full union wages, working 48 hours a week and
under the sweetest and most sanitary conditions.
Our Hats are sold throughout the Commonwealth bv
Hatters, Drapers, Tailors and Storekeepers costing
the uniform prices of Half-a-Guinea and Twelve and
Sixpence. If you can’t get them in your district
write to us direct, giving your Dealer’s name We’ll
see that you are supplied.
Remember our Hats are Australian all through.
You 11 find them better than imported Hats dumned
to the tune of £200,000 a year on to this «?ed
continent. They are obtainable in either Hard or Soft
Felts-any shape, any style you like-are fast dved
are very light and comfortable to the head Mind
when buying them from your dealer that
Our Full Name is on the Inside Leather
WITHOUT THIS NONE IS GENUINE.
Austral Hat Mills Prop. Ltd
y Abbotsford, Victoria. Jl
MOTHER’S FRIEND.
PEDIC POMADE for the Head,
Strikes infesting vermin dead ;
On all hands it is confessed,
Surest, finest, foremost, best.
Destroys vermin; kills nits; heals sores
By post—Small 1/2, large 2/3, extra large 3/6
Manufacturer—P. KLEESATTfiL,
Trarnlgon. Victoria. * ’’
d
E. T. WALSH,
Practical Tailor,
Expert Cutter, jZ?
NEW FOUR-GUINEA SUITINGS.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS.—Send your name and I will send my illustrated Style Catalogue,
also Samples and Measurement Chart and Outfit for measurements. ®
If you don’t like the Suit when you get it—YOUR MONEY BACK
Experienced Cutter from Bond Street,
London, cmnMi/nrf.
NO FACTORY WORK.
359 SEOR6E STREET, SYDNEY.
TS
saflffiudiTjon ft
m
w
%i
UneFruitJuice
flsk
sSMsfore
ee
BASED UPON THE WELL KNQWN>2QNTSERRAT* , LmE FRUIT JUICE.
The question of the value of the marriage
or birth certificate on which melodramatists so
confidently rely turned up last week, in Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) Police Court. An elderly com-
mission agent, who said he made about £1 a
week (there is a world of faded respectability in
being an elderly commission agent and making on
an average £1 a week), was sued for maintenance
by a lady, who said she was his long-lost wife.
The separation had lasted over 18 years, and at
the end of that long time she wanted her faded
apnt returned to her. The defendant replied
that he once possessed a wife who drank, but had
lost the run of her. ITe had heard of her death
many years ago, and had no reason till now to
suppose she wasn’t dead. He didn’t recognise the
applicant (who wanted £2 a week maintenance)
from a .herd of wild door-posts. She might be his
wife or she might not. But what he revolted
against was the supposition that she must be
nis wife because she had his wife’s marriage
Certificate in her hand. And just there—whatever
jnay.be the merits of the case otherwise—the
rather faded man kicked against a superstition
that badly wants to be kicked. On the stage the
possession of the certificate is always accepted
without hesitation as proof of the identity of the
lost wife, yet it would be just as logical to assume
that the cow was the lost relative because it had
the certificate impaled on its horn, or that the
villain had been married in early life to the door
because the certificate was gummed on the door.
The same objection arises when an aged person
dies in the Home for the Decayed and Venerable,
leaving under his pillow a yellow document setting
forth that Michael Grady was born at Roscommon
PL. , 8- That may suggest that the deceased was
Michael Grady, aged 108, but it doesn’t prove it
any more than the finding of the same paper
under a tank would prove that the tank was born
at Roscommon in 1798. There is a certain
amount of free drink and notoriety attached to
being 108 years old, and given the papers, which
are often easy enough to find, the borrowing of
the name is easy. When last heard from, the
Parramatta Court was thinking over these things
and had postponed its decision.
Messrs. Craig and Aitken, of 654 George-street
Sydney, record, with pardonable pride, that although
they have advertised Capillarine for over 20 years and
sold many thousands of pots they have never had a single
complaint during that period. Capillarine is advertised
to grow hair on any face. It is compounded of absolutely
harmless ingredients yet strong enough to give a man a
heavy, luxuriant moustache. Capillarine is sent under
sealed cover free for 10s. 6d.’'
Adelaide Local Court looked very hard at
“Statute 29 of Car. IL,” last week, and then
decided to ignore it. Defendant had engaged a
trap on Easter Sunday to take him to the Oak-
bank races next day, and when it came along it
was not (he said) fit to go the distance. When a
]<hw-suit arose out of the matter, he was advised
to strengthen his case by leaning on Charles IT.,
who forbade contracts to be made on a Sunday.’
The Court, however, presumably considered
that monarch a poor sort of person to lean on
(what Charles himself is leaning on now it is hard
to say but there are suspicions that it is some-
thing hot), and the hirer had to pay.
When Malcolm M‘Eacharn was Gaud
Mayor of Melbourne he entertained the Japs
with such zeal that they have ever since reckoned
Melbourne Town Hall the capital of Australia,
and the Gaud Mayor its Mikado. Little Mayor
Weedon tried hard last week to live up to the
M'Eacharn tradition, and though he failed he
and his fellow councillors provided an entertain-
ment that will live for years in the memories of
those who saw it. The Jap officers, despite their
boasted proficiency in English, are almost incom-
prehensible when they try to talk. Then Weedon
and Ins friends had the common English impres-
sion that any foreigner can understand the
British language if you yell loud enough, and they
bellowed like the fall of Jerusalem. It was better
than an old age pension to see a burly alderman,
with his eyes starting from his head, his face red
and convulsed, and his arms violently semaphor-
ing over the room, while he shouted into the ear
ot a little yellow statue that never moved a
muscle. All the Mayoral crowd helped them-
selves liberally with “You savee 1 ” and it is said
that one alderman several times called the
J apanese admiral ‘ ‘ John. ”
K
REMARKABLE TYRE RELIABILITY
556 Miles in 24 Hours.
Accomplished on Australian
Roads on Australian-made
d
T H (i u b ° i l!- fcfc '' depicts Messrs. O. B. Kellow and H. B. James leaving Melbourne on Wednesday, May
n„hHeiv’env n t^ lr / ema *’ kab J e 2^ h / >urfe Motor-Car drive. In the full day 556 Hiles were authentically and
9i l i b h^f ° Ver an ° Ufc ar J d home course—half the driving- being- during the night ; actual driving time
Jl s hours—giving an average of .over ,26 miles.an-hour for the full distance. NO SEVERER TYRE TEST
A. I . r r*lf l i n i!. < i than^ n f. 1 ™,?,. s deseription, when all classes of road are dashed over at full speed. Yet
in ™n, ? DUN LOPS came through practically without a scratch-thus demonstrating
N^rT^? F i D T ° PURCIIASK FOREIGN-MADE TYRES WHEN SUCH PINE LOCAL PRODUCTIONS
he ,i ono Jwi [,K ' r Dunlop TyrGs are made to suit Australian conditions—consequently can
on application" 110 gIVG excelleri '- : ' results on Rough Australian’ Roads. Beautifully-illustrated Motor Catalogue
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.—All States and New Zealand.


(1) The best possible mail service.
(2) Every article we sell.
WHAT WE GUARANTEE!
(3) We assume every possible risk.
(4) Best Goods at Lowest Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER VASE -e
silver-mounted.
green glass.
Other Styles, ■
2s Bd, 2s -
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-mounted PAPER KNIFE, highly burnished
steel blade, 7in long, 2s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
best rubber: lining, pure
silver shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s 6d'.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Wishbone
LINKS, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 85s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK, finest
French 8-day movement,
solid brass case, enamel
dial, richly ornamented,
£3. Other Styles, 265,
30s, 40s, to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, pure silver-plated, pearl
handle, 7Jin long, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, Ss 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 21s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN
CUSHION, velvet top,
5s 6d. Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
comprising three pairs
Sheffield Steel Scis-
sors, 6s 6d.
Extra Quality, 11s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure silver-plated,
crystal glass, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
GOODS OF
QUALITY.
We sell
only the
good
Quality of Goods
that we
know
will please
and give you
every satisfaction.
All Goods
sent
POST FREE
to any
address in
Australasia
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH ROLLED-GOLD FRAMES, fitted ordinary Lenses, 12s 6d.
Astigmatic Lenses, 21s. Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Our Crystalite SPECS., Ss 6d. Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
WE ARE CONSULTING OPTICIANS.
FREE for the
ASKING.
If you cannot
visit us,
send for
our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
Its exact
reproductions
take away
all uncertainty
from
MAIL BUYING.
It’s Free.
Just ask for it.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure
silver-plated, satin finish,
hand engraved, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
ISct. Gold Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
PENDANT, gold-mounted,
6s 6d. Larger, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in four
sizes, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s. All with
safety chain attached.
A. SAUNDERS.
18st Gold RING,
pure double-cut
diamond, £2,
Larger Diamond,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold MUFF CHAINS, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO. Necklets
to match, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 40s.
IBct. Gold, 60s.
Handsome 8-day Marbellette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves, rich, loud gong, richly
ornamented case, brass mountings, fancy dial, first-class timekeeper, £2 ss.
Kept in free repair for 2 years. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 85s, 40s, 42s 6d, 50s.
Solid Silver Sovereign
PURSE, 7s 6d, 10s.
Silver Filled, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
18ct. Gold, pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3.
5 Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds, £5.
or Sapphires,
£7 10s.
Set Gold BRACELET, 3 pure double-cut diamonds,
with safety chain, £5. Diamond and 2 rubies, £4 10s.
9ct. Gold PIN,
set pure White
Pearls, 12s 6d.
16ct. Gold,
17s 6d..
Ladies’ Black Open-face Key-
less WATCHES, 10s 6d
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s 255!
Solid Silver, Hunting Cases,
255, SOs, £2, £2 10s, £3.
9c t. Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Ruby or Sap-
phire, 17s 6d.
Gent.’s Shaving ROLL, comprising finest Silver
Steel Razor and 4 useful articles, 12s 6d. Extra
Quality, 15s. With two Razors, 21s, 22s 6d.
Oct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” Friend-
ship CHARM,
7s 6d.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless Watches, Jewelled,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s. £4, £5,
£6, £7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5
years.
Crocodile Leather
Chatelaine Spec.
CASE, 10s 6d.
15s
20s.
I
/
N
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s.
Specially recommended. All Guaranteed.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set pure
White Pearls, 20s.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
long white bristles, 5s 6d. Other
Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
Field or Marine GLASSES, large
field of vision, 255. Other Styles,
12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set
Pearls and Ruby, 15s.
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB,
Imitation Tortoiseshell, 7s 6d. Other
Styles, Ss 6d, 4s 6<L 6s 6d. 6s 6d.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSHES, long white bristles
10s 6d. Others, 8s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £B,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6. 15ct. Gold,
£5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO. Solid
Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Gold Filled,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
Juvenile OUP, pure silver-
plated, richly engraved,
gilt lined, 8s 6d. Other
Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
SOLID
SILVER.
£2.
GOLD-
CHASED
£4 4s.
mtm
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent Gold-
Cased, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid Gold,
£6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranted 5,6, and 7 years.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, i
A. SAUNDERS
(809, 811, 813, 815, 817)
( GEORGE-STREET, j
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


■
mm
mammm
’mv fisi
IMIMm
mmMMiMm
* -j -w» p%
'...;
'“V.
aii-
Slpp
I 'V* -
>Pv>P
W@S&
ass®
.: :.■■■■. '•• ,
®P •' v si isKllJij
*
■|iPS>y . • : i -‘ : '
f ■«
.£^3
Pt^iSwl
P>*>
r
Site*
!.'iK!iS«
• <- •
'A >,i ';
W»S
I 4
Sfff ‘
£x
11
1.
1 J
ftps*
P 3
t
m
m
nu
m
PUS
p
W :
■s -
s •»
nm
< - • & * t ? p
- . •, -
■' • ■ ! - : .
V' ■' Vij
*
iSiPPWI
.
nr- 'l‘
MTT
isgti
r
...
.
-
IP
• - . -.
pk%> ’ fe
"W* \
mrr'f J.*V^rh
on
If yGX &in t Killed, MicK, I ’opc ter *lvin yerVe
saved the CAPSTAN CIGARETTES!”


Winter Trips to North Queensland
*;•/" ' • v *:■. ’ A
’M-V
By Mag'nificent Steamships.
FOR the months of May, June, July, and August,
tourists or those seeking an equable climate and mag-
nificent scenery can be thoroughly recommended to
take the trip to Cairns, North Queensland. The scenery on
the way there and round about Cairns stands unrivalled. The
famous Cairns-Herberton Railway, a marvel of engineering
skill, runs from Cairns over the ranges past the celebrated
falls to Chillagoe, with its wonderful copper mines and lime-
stone caves. The Cairns-Mulgrave Tramway Line also
takes you through some typical Northern scenery. Cairns
is an ideal resort for the invalid, for the tourist, and pleasure-
seeker. Australia has not any winter trip to compare with
it. The round trip from Melbourne to Cairns and back can
be done in 27 days, Sydney to Cairns and back in 20 days,
Brisbane to Cairns and back in 14 days.
S.S. GABO.
“uiatPM HiiiPi
m
s ■'
-
View from
The Barron
Bridge.
Cairns
Railway.
Stony
Creek
Falls.
FARES
Per
GABO .. ..
WOLLOWRA
BUNINYONG.
MARLOO ..
WYANDRA..
WODONGA ..
ARAWATTA
ARAMAC ..
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE FREM’TLE
For Further Particulars apply to
A.U.S.N. CO. LTD.
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD.
ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD.
Offices at BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
Agencies at All Ports. FREMANTLE.
Tickets are interchangeable subject to conditions
to be ascertained at various offices.
Mm'
mm.
The Red Bluff.
camss
tel
mm
Pin
XRIFi
1
Up-to-
Date
AND
Comfor-
table-
Steam
ships.
S.S. MARLOO.
hm
7*
F
»'•
:. ■/
•.
[ili]
sifc
S.S. WYANDRA.
Fig Tree,
Atherton.
Cairns
Railway.
The Gorge.
Cairns Railway.
Stony Creek Bridge.


BEALE
«»«*£
lak in lUtsiralia:.
PIANOS
I /
rens
umeJL
MS
iif
r
-■
*«
H
S
:
•-
-’r 4i-f:
v
Sfi SkaJii
■
SUCH is now the demand for BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS
that within three years we have had twice to enlarge our factories. In two
years we have doubled our output. Our branch retail supply houses have
had to be increased in number to cope with the ever-growing demand for BEALE
PIANOS. We have established branches in every State of the Commonwealth,
notwithstanding energetic antagonism by foreign agents. From all parts of Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, New Zealand, from the Islands of the Pacific, India, South Africa,
Mauritius, and even Japan, inquiries and orders for BEALE AUSTRALIAN
PI AN OS continue to pour in upon us. This wonderful rise in popular favor has never
had a precedent in the music trade anywhere in the world. We have always relied for
our success upon the solid merit ot the goods we offer, and therefore our chief aim has
ever been Superiority in Material, Workmanship, System of Construction, and
Finish. It was in order to gain control of these essentials that we started manu-
facturing in Australia, and, once having begun, we have without check gone on to
our present position as the manufacturers of the HIGHEST GRADE PIANOS
IN THE WORLD. COME and INSPECT the Instruments for yourself. We
invite comparison with any imported pianos. Your verdict will be the same as
that of nearly seven thousand people in every department of life, who have pur-
chased from us, and scores of thousands of their friends who have seen and heard
the BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS.
We have been granted Patents in England, France, and other manufacturing countries, and Australasia, but it is always accounted a special certificate of merit
to obtain a patent in Germany. In the German Empire it is a criminal offence, punishable by fine and imprisonment, to use another man’s patented invention. The
Government, therefore, is particularly careful in investigating the merits of inventions in respect of originality, priority, and efficiency, before granting patents which
protect to such an extent. After cautious, special inquiries which we had to answer, the Imperial German Government granted us
LETTERS PATENT for our Steel Tuning' System.
Complete Pianos may be seen at any of our Showrooms or small specimen sections will be sent by post to any intending purchaser. There are now thousands
of Pianos with these patent wrest-planks in use with families in stock, and in course of manufacture. During months there is no change in them whatever. All the
expected advantaged have been attained, and some which were not anticipated.
If you want a Piano which will last a lifetime and can always be kept at a proper pitch, as a true musical instrument should be, then we invite you to inspect and test the
BEALE PIANOS
before buying elsewhere. They are made in your own climate to withstand the
climate, of the best materials, by thoroughly competent workmen. We give
guarantee and submit proofs which you cannot obtain elsewhere. Why not give
Britons a chance, instead of demanding the label “ Made in Germany V We sell
800 Pianos a year in this State, and there would be no sense in making them here
at all unless we made them better, because we, can get all the labor and skill at
much lower wages in Germany. We use the same kind of mechanism as Julius
Bluthner, made by the same supplier. We use the same kind of steel strings as
Carl Bechstein, from the same supplier. Those two eminent makers may be
reckoned as the best in their own country. Yet we claim to be better situated—
with our patents and with access to a better timber market (California) —to supply
Australian buyers direct from factory to consumer. Our workshops are large and
new, fitted with steampipes throughout, and the most modern electrically-driven
machinery and apparatus. The climate is all in our favor. In Germany, for
many months in the year, the workshops are tightly closed, whilst often icicles
hang from the roof. Inside there is a close atmosphere at about 62deg. The
rooms are moist with* breath and the steam from glue-pots. The Pianos are
jointed up, sounding boards and all, in such conditions, inevitably. Then in the
same atmosphere they are finished and packed. Yet in three months’ time such
pianos must withstand, if they can an, Australian open-air, dry temperature of
llOdeg. in the shade. Which is likely to endure those conditions best ? Pianos
made in Germany or Pianos made here by skilled workmen from those very shops,
with adequate experience, and every possible appliance at hand, in this climate ?
We have our own foundries and ironshops, adjuncts that until recently not one
single German Piano-maker possessed. Thus alone can full control of the quality
of the metal parts be attained. Even the very pins and screws are made in our
works, on automatic machinery, which is not the case with any Piano-maker in
Europe.
BEALE & COMPANY, Limited
474 Georg'e St., Sydney.
107 Swanston St., Melbourne.
10l Brisbane St., Launceston.
Branches and Travellers Everywhere.
207 King St., Newtown.
127 Ktindle St., Adelaide.
615 Hay St., Perth.
Catalogues and Circulars FREE for the Asking.


“Lil” writes:—
What a pitiful sight some of the anti-Socialistic dames
present as they speak their pieces at a meeting. If they
could only see a biograph reproduction of the perform-
ance they would never ascend a platform again. Often
enough most of the lady orator’s voice has oozed with her
courage and memory before she rises. She stands staring
with frightened eyes, just able to mumble nervously after
some politician who is prompting her —“ Home purity—
marriage tie —domination of the Labor party—dangerous
apathy—-all women vote.” Then she totters nervously
back to her chair. Heaven only knows what frightful
calamity the politician aforesaid must have prophesied to
make the poor misguided woman face such torture.
Representatives of trades-unions and em-
ployers’ associations are meeting in conference in
Sydney to discuss the Arbitration Act. Labor
wants Capital, as a preliminary, to admit the
principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes by
arbitration, and so far Capital has refused. This
leaves no doubt as to which is the party of law and
order.
Still another demand for a send-off :
Dear Bulletin.—l should like to enlist the sympathy
of your readers in the case of a promising youth who is
studying for the bookmaking profession. He has learnt
all that local professors of his art can teach him, and if a
sufficient' und can be acquired to enable him to study
paddock voice-production under its leading European ex-
ponents—Bellot, of Paris, and Bull, of London—l feel
confident that his pure basso racecourse voice will
yet do Australia credit. I hope to interest some
of our leading citizens in arranging a benefit race
meeting (at which the juvenile genius will appear)
for this purpose. One reason why Moses Bull-
doza (my young friend) wishes to go to Europe is his
desire to find out whether Continental experts can pos-
sibly improve on the fine shop-betting methods of our
Australian professors, which he has already thoroughly
grasped. A meeting of citizens will be held in the Town
Hall next Monday, when a committee to further the
above-mentioned objects will be formed. Mo (as his in-
timate friends call him) humorously says that if only a
few hundred citizens would try and back dead Tins with
him at an ordinary meeting, he would not need the bene-
fit. But may we not hope that Moses will thus be given
what he calls a “ thkinner,” even in conjunction with a
benefit meeting? Yours faithfully, Terence O’Fipp, sec.,
proltem.
On the
Trail V
Of the
Trust
Powerful
Illustrations
by Hop.,
Vincent,
N. Lindsat,
and Weston.
*
Price
1/-
Post Free
from The
Bulletin
Office,
1/2
A Practical
WorK on Protection
Puts the case for National Industry
—from all points of view with
rare cogency and brightness.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Te ™ b
MELBOURNE
TRBGK MATCH BOXES
FULL, YET
EMPTT.
RY means of a secret chamber you can, by so
. manipulating this Match Box, make the matches
disappear at will, and it is apparently empty. In the
same mystifying manner you can cause the matches
to return, to the amazement of the onlookers. Hand-
somely finished in bright nickel, and a source of ever-
lasting amusement to the owner.
PKICE 9d
EACH, POST FREE
(usually sold at Is.).
Also in stock, TRICK CICARETTE CASES on the
same principle, 1/2 posted.
FREE. —Anyone ordering not less than three of
either of the above will receive, free, our wonderful
WIZARD CARD TRICK. The Cards in this pack can
be made to completely change no less than five times
and your most clever friend will fail to detect the trick.
Ordered separately the price is 7d. per pack, posted.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
MELBA ACOORDEONS
d
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street. Melbourne.
UP-TO-PATC
OVCRCOATS
READY TO WEAR.
ffi
1
In the Latest
Tweed Effeds.
IN GREENS, BROWNS, OR
GREYS.
Overchecked and Striped De-
signs, and in Scotch and
Harris Tweeds. Very Smart
Coats. Perfect Fitting.
455. 50s.
575. 6d. 635.
The Celebrated
“Rainlea” Coat.
Light Weight, Porous, No
Rubber. Thoroughly Water-
proof. In Grey and Fawn
Colors.
555., 635.
Only obtainable from us.
The “Stag’s Head”
Brand Overcoat.
A Smart-fitting, Nobby Coat.
Gentlemen’s, 38s. 6d.
Boys’ and Youths’, 255.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUES.
CAN’T BE BEATEN.
BUCKLEY * NUNN, Ltd.
300-310 Bourke Street, HELBOURNE.
800f1...
Positions
800 d...
Pay....
You can't expect to obtain a Good Position
with Good Pay, working in ihe overcrowded,
ordinary trades. We can alter this for yon. We
can ensure you a good position, by training you
by mail, direct to your home, for a good
position as an Ele'ctrical Engineer. This pro-
fession is not overcrowded, and ensures you a first-
class salary. We have qualified thousands, and
can do the same for you. It doesn’t matter
where you live, we can give you the training.
Distance is no object.
WE PROVE OUR -STATEMENTS,
we don’t want you to take our word for it. When
we say we can train you, by mail, for a good
position in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Electric Light and Power, Electric
Tramways, Dynamo Tender, Mechanical Draw-
ing, Telegraphy, Telephony, etc., etc., under the
most successful system. We prove it. Write
to-day for our Free ticok, “ How to become
an Electrical or Mechanical Engineer ” ; it tells
you all about it. You will see letters in this
book from our students all over the world proving
our statements. We supply oir students with a
complete Reference Library, Free. If you want
a good position write for tee fre© book to
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER INSTITUTE
OF CORRESPONDENCE INSTRUCTION,
5 Norwich House, Southampton St.,
Hclborn, London, England.
E
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Bheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Begular Use.
d
A
BATH HEATERS
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood
Send por Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt st., Sydney
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
d
A CHAMPION
RAZOR-^-^
THE PLUM!
Worth its weight in gold to the man who wants a
clean, easy shave in quick time. Requires no grinding,
gives no trouble. Made of specially tempered steel —
hollow ground—the finest razor ever sold at or near
the price.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6;
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/- ;
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/-;
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
POST FREE to Any Part of Australasia.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
Visitors to Melbourne Sat.'?!
Wca/e’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
sdf
sdf
df
Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
7
No. 1, 3/6, post free.
Our Beautiful Ladies’ Rolled Gold IVluff Chains.
Having imported large supplies direct from Amer-
ica, we are in a position to offer these goods at
specially low prices. They have all the appearance
of a solid gold chain, are equally as well made, and
wear well. As an inexpensive present they are just
right, being useful and pretty. Full length (double)
is about 22 inches—fitted with sliding neck adjust-
ment, which keeps the two lengths of chain together.
The most convenient form of chain for a watch, and
reaches to the waist. Send postal note lor 3/6 or
4/6 for either style, or the two together for 7/6, post
free anywhere. STAR NOVELTY CO.,
Box 466. G.P.0., Melb.j 229-231 Collins St.. Melb.
L
NOj^2j4/6^>o«Wree^j
Public Notice.
The Clyde Engineering
Company, Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act).
INCREASE OF CAPITAL.
OURTHER Capital being required to purchase addi-
* tional plant, machinery, tools, and material in con-
nection with the contract for building 60 Locomotives for
the Government, the Directors have decided to offer to
the public the balance of the unalloted shares at 20/-
each, payable 10/- per share on application and 10/- on
allotment.
Shares already issued and on which 20/-
per share has been paid in cash .. 75,479
Shares now offered to the public at 20/- 24,521
Making Total Capital .. .. £lOO,OOO
The 24,521 Shares will carry a Preferential Dividend at
the rate of 6 per cent, per annum.
The Assets, as per Balance-sheet for
1905, amount to £117,617 19 5
The Liabilities, as per Balance-sheet for
1905, amount to 30,000 15 9
£87,617 3 8
The Land and Buildings have been
valued by Richardson and Wrench,
Ltd. ; and the Plant, Machinery, and
Tools by Norman Selfe, M.1.0.E.,
M.I.M.E. The valuations show a
sum in excess of book values of .. £43,662 17 6
Total Assets in excess of Liabilities .. £131,280 1 2
The New Capital would further increase
the Assets by 24,521 0 0
£155,801 1 2
The amount of Profit available for future
dividends is .. * £12,138 3 8
The Dividends paid during the past 7 years average
81 per cent.
Although the business is well established, and the pros-
pects of extension most promising, no premium is asked
for goodwill.
The Contracts, amounting to about £380,000 at present
in hand, should keep the works profitably employed for
some years.
Further particulars may' be obtained at the Company's
Office, Mutual Life of New York Building, (2nd Floor),
Martin-place, Sydney.
Applications for Shares addressed to the Secretary till
May 31 will be dealt with in the order received.
JOHN J. WOOD, Secretary.
Legal Notice.
GRACE COULSTOCK, Deceased.—Pursuant to an Order
of the Chancery Division of the High Court of
Justice, dated 12th day of February, 1906, and made in
the matter of the ESTATE of GRACE COULSTOCK,
Deceased, Sarah Annie Springett (Spinster), and Wilson
Stuckey plaintiffs, Thomas Coulstock defendant (1906,
C 267), whereby the following enquiry is directed : An
enquiry who were the persons entitled by virtue of or
according to the Statute of Distribution of Intestates’
Estates to the estate of the above named testatrix, Grace
Coulstock, living at the time of her death, and whether
any of them are since dead, and, if so, who are their
respective legal personal representatives. Notice is
Hereby Given, that any person or persons claiming to be
next-of-kiri of the said Grace Coulstock, or the legal per-
sonal representatives of next-of-kin, are, by their solici-
tors, on or before the 24th day of October, 1906, to come
in and prove their claims at the Chamber of Mr. Justice
Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce, at the Royal Courts of
Justice, Strand, London, England ; or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said order. Friday, the 26th day of October, 1906, at
twelve o’clock at noon, at the said Chamber (Room No.
267), is appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Dated this 3rd day of April, 1906.
WILLIAM BINNS SMITH,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note. —The said testatrix, Grace Coulstock, died a
spinster, on the 10th March, 1905, and was late of
Brighton, in the county of Sussex.
NASH, FIELD, and CO., 12 Queen-street, London, E.C.,
England, Solicitors for Plaintiffs.


“ W.P.8.” on a personal matter :
You should be sued for libel. On the front page of
issue 3'5/’O6 I recognise Deakin, but who are the other
men ’ ’ I don’t know them well enough to follow any
resemblance, but I know Deakin well. Deakin s not a
bad-looking chap, and 1 think you might give him a
better-looking face than that—it is quite criminal (the
face, I mean). I thought it was a picture of Deeming at
first You make a great error in showing such faces to
the universe if you want to encourage immigration, No
one will come out here if he thinks he’s going to see faces
like that blotting the landscape. Also, in spite of
barracking (for explanation of this term vide Aborigi-
nalities” column) like Hades for Australian defence, you
decry the soldier bloke and give him a face as bad, if not
worse, than Deakin’s. It isn’t fair.
But that isn’t what I was talking about, and maybe you
will put me down as irrelevant. I’m not. I started
about Deakin, and I’m coming to him again in a nnnute.
I want you to understand he is a friend of mine. 1 hat s
how I knew his picture on the front page. Leave him
alone or give him a decent face, and also give that soldier
man a chance. Not that I’m very particular about the
soldier man, but don’t forget about Deakin. Make him
better-looking next time. He’s not such a bad chap, and
can be quite firm in his views. 1 know him, that s how I
recognised him on the front page.
Britisl)-JVustrdlasiatt
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Price 6d«
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing: Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLE3URY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
Thk British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gi ves Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
Thk British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Ara Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing
Chronographs
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Ply-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute lie-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 lOs.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHENES, POLISHES
Unoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
j. J. MADDEN & CO., 68 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
BEST
GROUND
d
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
a.
ď
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES.
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
[this 1ABEL IS PROTgSTED_Py^RE6|STR^nON_UMDERTHE_rRADg_M^RKjRgT|CTjON_ACTcrl8g3
d
mmmmomH
mmmwMvm
DJ
Refuse
Imitations
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
d
HEINDORFF BROS.
We don’t believe any Accord eon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Brice £1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to lOO/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Qlieen St., Brisbane
Cures "While
You Sleep
m
, ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6$ Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6$ 4 oz., 2-8$ 2 oz. 5 1-8.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
SORE
SI NGLETON ’Q EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EY
ES
ALL EYE TROUBLE 3.
I\] EVER RAIL-3.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
m
&
0
&
gLn
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
A CARD.
OLD DOCTOR LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
Begs to inform his patients and the ailmg public
generally that HE and HIS STAFF OF EXPERT SPECI-
ALISTS may still he consulted as in years past, either
personally or BY LETTER. FREE OF CHARGE.
IF YOU ARE IN NEED OF MEDICAL ADVICE,
WRITE FOR QUESTION CHART AT ONCE.
POST FREE, Doctor Langston’s
Popular Medical Work, latest edition
(Flluslta/ed):
MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.
It tells you what you want to know,
aud what you ought to know.
WRITE FOR IT NOW.
™ DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
ESTABLISHED 1887.
All Communications Sacredly Confidential.
Mention this paper when willing.
WHY ?
AERTEX CELLULAR
OPINIONS OF THE BRITISH MEDICAL PRESS:—
The Lancet. —The idea embodied in the Aertex
Cellular cloth is that of providing' ready means
of escape from perspiration as vapor.
British Medical Journal.— Aertex Cellular
cloth affords a free escape to the skin exhala-
tions.
The Hospital.— Aertex Cellular cloth is light,
remarkably warm, and is manufactured on
scientific principles.
The Broad Arrow. —We regard Aertex Cellular
goods as a special boon to officers of both ser-
vices.
The Queen. —Aertex Cellular cloth is porous, so
that all that ought to be eliminated from the
skin is allowed to escape.
The Era. —Aertex Cellular garments promote the
cleanliness of the skin by their non-absorbent
qualities.
Cycling. —ln our opinion there is nothing like the
well-known Aertex Cellular clothing to ward
off King Winter’s chill breath and searching
sting.
Golf.-- Aertex Cellular cloth is not only lighter, but
l etter ventilated than ordinary fabrics, and is
easier to wash.
The Gentlewoman.— lt combines lightness
with warmth in a satisfactory manner not
attained by any other material for underwear.
Soi/e Agents in N.S.W.: —
DAVID SR AH AM & CO.
94 King Street. Sydney.
waste time in
experiment ti ng.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is flip-
best proof of the claim of
OwMge
£ungTbu{c
to be the WORLD'S CTJRE\
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can bs obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
Fo *
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
SUBSTITUTES.
sdf
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
MODEM £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
non Second-Hand Cycles
4UU “ u makes - £1 to £2.10
good as new, , . .
Great factory clearance sale at halffactory prices.
EARN A CYCLE machtae. r< ActiYe Agent*
■wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our »peeial_nffier, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c... half prtcet.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FAIRY FICURESforFAT FOLKS
[Dr. Le Sclendre’s Famous Discovery “Obecura”j
CURES CORPULENCY.
Send at once for treatise on How to Reduce
your Weight 5 lbs. per day. Posted FREE.
JAS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
1


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON ' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS <fc CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
BON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of jjistralasia^
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
™ E |ueensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS6S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending- to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,240 15 0
Reserve(in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Ksq,, Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Calkin, M.Tj.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. Y. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461 —Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of [|eui South ||)ales.
Established 1817.
Head Offioe-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. ... .. 1,425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... ... 5,425,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Usher, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Bank of Bum Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The gank of flortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manaser-r- Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns. Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised . . .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. | 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) ) £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M. L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Pliiip & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Clynk ; Adelaide. W. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.
Farquiiar. J. J.ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGER B BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Serew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
Fiom SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*FRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
Capital Paid-dp .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Kpwd. D. Day. Asst. Mugr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE: 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
Ills
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
12th JUNE,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company/, Ltd,,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Natal, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SOPHOCLES .. IR. M‘Killiam .. I Noon, May 19
‘MILTIADES .. T. F. Spalding .. Noon, June 2
MORAVIAN ... I A. Simpson .. I Noon, June 30
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company , Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
QCEA3XTXC S.S. Co. A_. & jc±.. H.X3NT3E: (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction w'th the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST L.I3ME FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. VENTURA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JUNE 11.
For Full Particulars and Illnxtratid Matter , send or apply to —
BURNS, PHILP and CO.. Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDOK STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on May 7, July 7,
and September 7, are now
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
sdf
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £2s—there are no
extras; your home on the
.ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“ Holiday Hints ” ?
BURNS,
PHILP & CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
$
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED,
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
TNT.S.'W.
Ilont de pete |.*|.C«.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
rHE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colllns-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROVVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED*
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
June 11, July 9, Aug:. 6.
The Cheapest
and
Most Interesting Route to
Europe.
CHEAP EXCURSION TO CANADA-
£6O for 63
INCLUDING ALL EXPENSES
AND IN CANADA.
Days,
AT SEA
OgT Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing- Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card 'tricks), The Blood-Curdling Kail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character—-very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee. of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring- or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager. ajy
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000.
__________ ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
T £ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE WAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, '
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY, 1
ALBANY,*
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, May 18.
'S.S. Grantala, May 26.
S.S. Marloo, June 1.
BRISBANE, 'l
MACKAY, |<
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. | ‘
S.S. Gabo, May 19.
S.S. Wollowra, June 2.
liest and Cheapest Ho ate to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. _
lViessageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding: Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at —
MRS>. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions,, a to 5 Beaconsfield Parada
Sl'. KILDA.
'JJ HE Largest and r>esi-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
!3i.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner lias a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bali
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
AUDITED AND KEPT.
LOANS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
(late Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.)


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
IS49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City -or Suburban Properties, or or
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I. A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MIFETITIOW.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Li!
ill's
rv-
ib, \
Ini
\Wilt
Hiiiii®*-
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests.
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblack
or smokeless powder,
are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
i ! ii!!!!tl!!!i!!!lin., BRIDGEPORT »_ conn., u. s. a. ..jidjlHliHiiililifl!
Beautiful Home Decorations
n
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
„ "SAPOMar ” I'XOOTS STAIMS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rn h, pnruinneut himiwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodvvork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOT.IiV” A I,I'VTIA I'M IS SA SI EE gives unsightlv Pipes, Boilers,
pr anything made of mein 1. w ood. etc., a uurahle.untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush i t on.
JAPASESB GOLD PAIHT (Ready Mixed). TJneciUalled in lustre and
ease of H’mhcnribn. Adlieres 10 any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical n'Msatisfactory.
.F, r sale by all up-to-date dealers■ Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in tills climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER EROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL. “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Lie.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENOS
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT
SALT’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt* on a Disordered,
i Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. O. BNO, Ltd.., ‘ FRUIT SAT.T ’ WORKS. LONDON, ENG.,
by J. c. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RRSSMUSSEN,
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed,
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY
Weakjen ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
'Will Cure tine Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
HI non * asn>cr Oil I Q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUUII w(JnC Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Ifilonlr llllnman Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
alfCaclK HHl2latell special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Lilver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
AN ENFEEBLED SYSTEM
THOROUGHLY RESTORED.
■A- TRIUMPH lIXT ULTIMO.
The Case of Mr. A. Walker.
(By a Special Reporter.)
In all matters affecting the well-being of the community it is our duty to exercise every effort
and influence in the direction of promoting a still happier state of things, and if we only utilise the
chances that offer of helping our fellow-man we shall do much to brighten the hearth of many a home.
In this direction such assistance as that given by Mr. Alfred Walker, of No. 68 Macarthur-street,
Ultimo, is most valuable, for it deals with a subject which claims the attention of everybody.
Answering a reporter, Mr. Walker said: —
“I served my apprenticeship to engineering in Yorkshire, and have been at the trade all my life,
a large proportion of which has been spent in this country, for I came here in the year 1876.”
“ Do you find the climate agree with you ?” was asked.
“ Pretty well, but about six years ago I had very bad luck indeed, which was brought about in
this way. My work had taken me to a place situated between Douglas Park and Picton, where I had
an engine and boiler to repair. In putting those things to rights I put my health all wrong, for whilst
I was on that work I lived in a tent, and caught a severe cold, which went right through me. For two
or three months I could not get rid of it, and in the meantime the cause of much suffering had been
taking root, for rheumatism attacked me so badly that my legs, arms, and shoulders were almost use-
less to me. And the pain ! I can’t find words to describe it. My neck, too, was so stiff and sore that
I could hardly move it, and by degrees I got so infirm and helpless that I had to lie up altogether for
several weeks.”
“ Which would mean considerable financial loss to you ? ”
“My word it did ! but that was nothing compared to the misery I was in. My right shoulder got
worse and worse, and my sleep became scarcer than ever. I had become so cross and restless that I
could not settle myself down to sleep at all satisfactorily until about midnight. Then I would sleep
anddream till two or three o’clock, wake up suddenly, and then there was no more rest for me till the
next night. But these were not my only trials. There was one very important drawback, which was
that I could not relish any kind of food owing to my appetite having left me in the lurch long ago.
When I ate it was more by force of will than anything else—a determination to keep up my strength as
well as possible under the adverse circumstances ; but there was a stronger element than my own will
at work, and so my strength dwindled away in spite of me. The internal derangements that had got
hold of me were having a detrimental influence in every conceivable way. My eyes felt twice their
proper size, and my sight got bad, for when I started to read I’d soon have to give up, all the print
seeming to run together, and nearly every day of my life I was persecuted with the most violent
headaches. Oh ! it was an existence deserving of compassion, and I pray to God I’ll never experience
the like again. It was strange how giddy I used to get, too, sometimes so severely that I felt quite sick;
but, at that time, I was an awfully bilious subject, and it took nothing to upset me. I would only
require to take two or three mouthfuls of food when a feeling came to the stomach as if churning was
going on. The chest also had a stifling feeling about it, which made me short winded, while about
the back, just across the lower part here, the aches were something dreadful. It would be almost
impossible to endure all this without the nerves giving way, and I assure you mine broke down with a
vengeance. In point of fact, I was a complete wreck at the time a friend of mine came to see how I.
was doing, and strongly advised me to give Clements’ Tonic a trial.”
“ What medicine had you taken beforehand ? ”
“Well, I had been under the treatment of several doctors, each of whom paid me great attention
and prescribed medicine, but for all the effect it had I might just as well have taken so much water.
Seeing it was useless continuing with them, I tried my luck with many of the medicines I saw adver-
tised, only to meet with mere failures. Yes, dozens and dozens of bottles of physic I took before
Clements’ Tonic was recommended to me, and yet everything was left for the last remedy to do. I
may as well tell you that some of the chemists tried to palm their own mixtures, but I said ‘ No; 1
have spent enough money already, I’ve been advised to take Clements’ Tonic, and that is what I am
going to have.’ My word, I was soon thankful I had acted on the advice given, for after using a few
bottles of Clements’ Tonic I felt so much better that I hardly knew myself.”
“ In what respect did you notice improvement ? ”
“When Clements’ Tonic had had a fair chance I experienced benefits in many directions, but
what I was particularly thankful for at the time was a distinct falling off in the rheumatic tortures
that all other medicines had been incapable of touching. It was marvellous. Naturally, I was
encouraged to persue this latest treatment of mine, and, by-and-bye, I could hardly restrain myself
with the joy I felt at the progress made. I soon started taking my food as eagerly as if nothing had
ever been the matter with me, and in due time, to my surprise, I found that my internal organs were
actually performing their proper work again, which meant that I gained entire freedom from the old
tortures of indigestion, and began putting on flesh again. It was a new thing for me to retire to rest
at night and not wake up again till morning, and that’s what I have to thank Clements’ Tonic for. It
was also new to rise from bed with a clean tongue in place of the fur which had formerly covered it,
and no headache to distress me or no giddy turns during the day, and I assure you I often thanked
God that at last I had got a remedy which could restore vigor to my enfeebled system, and steadiness
and strength to my nerves. Yes ; these are some of the good things Clements’ Tonic did for me, but
I need not enumerate them all, as it is sufficent for me to say that my rheumatic pains were thoroughly
driven away, and I’ve never had a touch of biliousness or indigestion since.”
“Not for six years ? ”
“That’strue, and if my story will help other afflicted people you may publish it in any form
you please.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ALFRED WALKER, of No. 68 Macarthur-street, Ultimo, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains, and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements —which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) ALFRED WALKER.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, C. H. FOLEY, J.l\
/MOKE-OH!
CIGAR SMOKERS! Try
KING of All K. & B.
HIGH LIFE CIGARS
Mild, Medium and Full Strength, 17 6 per box (100); postage
9d. extra. Send for Is. worth as sample—posted free.
Ageirts-CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
1
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. |
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There's SECURITY in
wARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUGH
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
,he LIVER
Be Sure they are Carter’s


WORK WAS A PLEASURE
To Mr. Sullivan—He foil ill of Indigestion
and Mother Seigel’s Syrup Cured Him.
“The sweetest thing in all the world is love,
And, next to love, the sweetest thing is hate.”
We never quite agreed with this couplet of
Longfellow’s. The first line may pass, but at the
second we kick vigorously. It is doubtless a
satisfaction to some natures to have their foot on
their enemy’s throat. But surely that is not the
next sweetest thing to love, and it would be
sweeter to have no enemy at all. Had the poet
written :
The sweetest thing in all the world is health
(health invites love, and leads the way to wealth)
we would have agreed with him heart and soul.
But he didn’t. He left that for us to do, and un-
fortunately our power of poetic expression falls
somewhat below that of Longfellow. However,
we stand by our opinion, and could back it up by
many practical illustrations, but shall employ
•only one, that of Mr. John Sullivan, of 140,
-Campbell-street, Surry Hills, Sydney, N.S.W.
For years Mr. Sullivan was as healthy, strong
and active as any man in the land. “I am a
wood-block layer by trade.” Mr. Sullivan stated
on sth May, 1905. “ Work used to be a pleasure
to me, and I took pride in out-pacing all my fellow
wood-blockers. I could sleep like a top, and my
■appetite would have scared any boarding-house
keeper. But about five years ago a change
gradually crept over me. From being smart and
active I became dull and heavy. After eating, I
felt as if a big knot had been tied in my stomach,
or I had swallowed an inflated football. Every
week I grew worse until it was as much as I could
do to struggle through the day’s task. At night I
could not sleep unless I dosed myself with some
powerful stimulant, and the morning would
generally find me with a bad taste in the mouth,
my tongue thickly coated with fur, and with no
appetite for breakfast. After eighteen months of
this I was on the verge of complete breakdown,
and dwindled away to a shadow of my former self.
My mother, who for years had been in the habit
of taking Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup, urged
me to give that medicine a trial; but I had
always dreaded doctors and physic, and it was
long before I could be persuaded to do so. How-
ever, at last I resolved to try a course of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup and Operating Pills, with the
happy result that by the time I had taken half-a-
dozen two-and-sixpenny bottles of the Syrup and
four boxes of the Pills I could eat without suffer-
ing subsequent pain, and sleep naturally, unaided
by narcotics. In short, my health and strength
were thoroughly restored, and I have remained
well to this day.”
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
Viyella’
(Regd.)
sdf
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says : “ You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.”
SEE THE EABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
LS.LS.
[.,.aa
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building:,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
X BEST.
sdf
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176* 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - - - 216
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Cd; Posted, Bd.
r oy&yiwM£
m
OF
, An Agreeable
' , nild and
» fEfficacjouj
' Laxative-
( Gentle
; Vet Prompt
in Action
niiin
is a simple, safe, and reliable, laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation —is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
The Scientific Cure for Indigestion.
From Mr. James Joshua, Oatherine-street, Leichhardt, Sydney, N.S.W., 6th March, 1905.
“ For fully a year I had suffered acutely from indigestion, headache and biliousness. I could
scarcely eat anything solid without having to endure great pain. My rest at night was greatly
disturbed, and this made me irritable. I was under medical treatment for some time, but derived no
real benefit from it. Having heard of the good effects of Warner’s Safe Cure, in the cases of other
sufferers, I decided to give it a trial. After taking the first two bottles I felt considerably better, and
a few more bottles thoroughly cured me. lam now in the best of good health.”
From Mr. W. H. Sampson, Haydonton, Murrurundi, N. S. W., 11th January, 1906.
“I suffered very much from indigestion for a considerable time through always being in the
bush, and, of course, living on rough food. Many a time I sat on the edge of my bunk at night unable
to lie down, the pain being so great in the pit of my stomach. I felt as if there was a great lump
there. Hearing that Warner’s Safe Cure was a cure for indigestion, I took a few bottles, with the
result that all pain left me and I was again able to eat, sleep and work well. Some of my mates also
take Warner’s Safe Cure and speak well of it.”
From Mr. Michael Kerrigan, Church Place, Malop-street, Geelong, Vic., 28tli August, 1904.
“ Two years ago I was conscious of a loss of nerve power and a falling off in mental activity. I
was in a distressingly dyspeptic condition, and suffered severely from frontal headaches. At first 1
did not pay much heed to these symptoms, but when I found that I was gradually getting worse and
the headache attacks more frequent, I thought it was time to do something to restore my health.
Speaking to a friend one day about my condition, he advised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure. I did
so, with rapid and marvellous results, for in a few weeks I was quite free from all symptoms of
dyspepsia, the pain in my head ceased, ana since that time I have had no trouble with my health.
I have recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to several others, who have taken it with great and lasting
benefit.”
From Mr. John O’Shea, 59 Pine-street, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th March, 1905.
“ I have much pleasure in bearing witness to the beneficial effect of Warner’s Safe Cure on my
health when I was suffering from indigestion, biliousness and general weakness of the entire system.
For a long time I was conscious of a want of nervous energy, and my mind seemed sluggish. My
sleep, though usually sound, was never restful. For months I suffered in this way, never feeling
really well for two days together. I felt more fit for bed than for business. Having been advised by
a friend to take Warner’s Safe Cure, I did so. After taking one bottle improvement was noticeable,
and in a few weeks the medicine gave me new vigor and vitality, so that I was enabled to discharge
my duties with spirit and zeal.”
From Miss Lena Montgomery, 178 Flinders-street, Adelaide, S.A., 22nd September, 1904.
“ For several years I had been a martyr to indigestion, accompanied by severe headache and
biliousness. My greatest suffering was after taking food, when the pain was so intense that I became
reluctant to eat. There was always a dulness and a sense of oppression after meals ; in fact, every-
thing I ate gave me great pain. As a natural consequence, I grew weak and exceedingly nervous. I
tried nearly every every known means to obtain the ease I longed for, but without avail. Finally
Warner’s Safe Cure was recommended to me. The effects of the first few bottles were wonderful, and
in a short time I was quite cured. I can now enjoy my food without any fear. I strongly recommend
anyone suffering from indigestion to give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial.”
From Mr. J. G. Smith, corner of Chum and Maple-streets, Golden Square, Vic., 19th August, 1904.
“ For many years I suffered as only those can who are victims to indigestion in its chronic form.
Almost everything I ate gave me excruciating pain, which would continue for some time, and I
became very irritable and despondent. Nothing gave me permanent relief until I tried Warner’s
Safe Cure, which proved to be the right thing in the right place, for it has completely and permanently
cured me. lam now in the best of good health, and although sixty years of age, I can take my shift
in the mine and put in eight hours’ work almost as well as any man.”
From Mr. T. Lloyd, 39 Hart-street, Miller’s Point, Sydney, 13th September, 1904.
“ I suffered for months from indigestion and biliousness. I tried several remedies but found no
benefit from them. I was telling a friend of my trouble, and he said, ‘ Why don’t you try Warner’s
Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pill ? I suffered the same as you are doing and they cured me.’ I felt
doubtful, but decided to take his advice. The first few doses of the Safe Cure made me feel sick, but
I persevered, and am thankful I did, for when I had taken three bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, and a
phial of Warner’s Safe Pills, I was cured, and able to enjoy my food again.”
From Mr. Charles Smith, 300 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W., 10th March, 1905.
“ I had been suffering from biliousness for several years, accompanied by extreme weakness and
prostration, but I paid little attention to it, attributing my condition to overwork. It was not until
indigestion, followed by confirmed dyspepsia, afflicted me, and my strength began to fail rapidly, that I
commenced to search for some remedy to give me relief. I tried various preparations, but it was
not until I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure that relief came to me. I persevered with the medicine,
and in the course of a few weeks was quite restored to health.”
A treatise explaining fully why Warner’s Safe Cure cures indigestion will be sent post free, by
H. H. Warner and Co. Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Victoria. [s]
d
OSTRICH PLUITES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, lj yds.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
WE ARE OH THE SPOT
with Crystaiate Billiard Balls
R
a*
The •
Only •
Subslifufe
for • •
ivory
ALCOC/f& CfjtyM
*
£l/ZAB£MS7
Mi;i,a.
The Crystalate
Billiard Bail . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms —
-422 GEORGE STREET
Business, Robbery, etc.
Meg” : The decision of Justice Hood, re-
cently acted on by the Port Melbourne bench, that all
time-payment sales are absolute after first payment, has
hit the piano shark hard. One of these gentry takes the
loaf and all the rest of the food for meanness. Girls are
engaged as apprentices at ss. a week, with increases loom-
ing in the dim beyond. One of the conditions is that
each girl must buy a piano on the time-payment system,
so as to become a proficient pianist in the future. The
benevolence of this idea is somewhat discounted by a
stipulation that half the wages go as weekly payments on
the box of whistles. After the budding Paderewski has
got up to 15s. a week (7s. 6d. for the piano), she is sud-
denly found incompetent. Dismissal leaves her without
a situation, and with a piano that she can’t pay for. So
the implement is humped back by carrier to the ware-
house, to be sold to some other guileless maiden, and the
boss gets his piano and servant for next to nothing. I
heard of one girl who got even. She had paid about
£lO off, when the usual dismissal came. But her Adonis
was a clerk in a solicitor’s office, and knew a thing or
two. She at once sold him the piano for £5, and spent
the money on her trousseau. There was a fearful inter-
view with Herr Spreckelstein. Lord knows what will
become of the other 50 pianos sold in a similar way when
the time-paymenters find out that they are sole proprie-
tors and only liable as debtors for the balances. The
prospect of recovering the value of the machine by suing
a discharged infant-in-the-eye-of-the-law who never had
more than 7s. 6d. a week to bless herself with at the
best of times is too dreadful.
• * * *
“Sano”: Do painters always charge £10? I
wanted some painting done, so called in Smith and asked
him what it would cost to have two rooms painted. Smith
looked round and said it would cost £lO. Happened to
pass Brown’s, another painter’s, and thought to get
another estimate, adding the hall to the two rooms.
Brown offered to do it for £lO. I was getting interested,
and consulted Jones about painting two rooms, the hall,
and the back wall. Said Jones, after inspection : “ I’ll
have to charge you £10.” In the end I got the whole
house done for £lO, but I firmly believe that if I had only
got the dog-kennel kalsomined it would have cost £lO
just the same.
* * * *
Women —or the men who pay for them—are
sinfully victimised in their drapery purchases. Take,
for illustration, the two old-established London drapery
stores of Peter Robinson and Jay’s, now run as limited
companies. Peter Robinson’s latest dividend was 18 per
cent., and the Jay’s balance-sheet records ah increase in
the net profits (over last year’s) of something like £9OOO.
The British aristocracy of the near future will be mainly
composed of the descendants of pushing softgOodsmen
who sold the shop to a co., leavened by a number of
impoverished blue-bloods who are seeking riches in the
bonnet-and-costume business. The brewer will have to
make way o>r the draper in upper circles. Men are drink-
ing less begr than of yore in order that the women may
buy more ribbons and things.
* * * *
“P.G.H.” : Apropos the recent row as to
whether made-in-Australia hats are ever branded “ Made
in England.” Rubbish! Every experienced hat-man
knows ic is done—if not by one firm, then by others. I
have handled hats for over a dozen years, and know that
Australian goods are frequently fitted with imported
leathers and linings branded “ Made in England.” I have
handled one lot branded “Made in U.S.A.” I don’t
blame the maker or retailer (naturally perhaps) as much
as Ido the public. The shopman doesn’t lead ; he only
reflects. All the same, I would give the fraudulent-
marks man gaol. I would even build him a special gaol
all to himself if necessary, with dark cells and skilly in it.
The romance of Australian gold mine flotation
did not begin, as is held, with McGregor, or Hargraves,
or any of the commonly cited celebrities, but with Dan
Daly when Botany Bay was still in swaddling clothes.
Dan, who had come out in irons for trying to pass bad
bronze coins in England, fell in love with Jane Reeby,
who was supposed to have purloined handkerchiefs
from the pockets of spectators of an execution at
the Old Bailey. The pair after a short time married in
Sydney, and Dan grubbed and Jane scrubbed
for a living. A longing to get back to England
seized both, but Daly’s head was a very small and soft
one, if the history of his plan of return is to be credited.
He thought to take down hard old Captain Phillip with a
few brass shavings melted with copper and embedded in
granite. He maintained the stuff was gold, that he knew
where mountains of it were to be found, and he offered
to tell the Governor where the Golconda was if the latter
would pardon him and his wife and send them back to
England. Phillip, who had never seen gold in conjunction
with rock, and who had nobody about him able to
analyse metals, showed doubt. Daly, to convince him,
alleged he had sold some of the stuff to an expert
on board the Golden Grove convict ship then lying in
the harbor. “Who is the man?” demanded Phillip.
“ A black-complexioned man,” was the only reply. But
there was no black-complexioned man on board the
Golden Grove. Phillip ground his teeth. He called
twenty men. “Daly,” he said, “show these men the
mountain of gold forthwith.” Daly set forth. After a
ten miles’ walk he gave the men the slip, and, returning
to camp, told the Deputy-Governor that he had settled
the twenty'on a junk of gold, but wanted another twenty
to help them to carry it. There was great commotion at
this, twenty men being immediately ordered to start.
But they had only just started when the first twenty
came back. Daly was flogged till he acknowledged that
he was a liar, though it took 300 lashes to clear up the
matter. He was hanged soon after for another offence.
That was the first wild-cat flotation, and it ended, where
many cats begin, up a tree.
* * * m
“Wal. D.” : I feel as savage as a meat-axe.
Just sent a messenger to a leading grocer s shop for a
bottle of chutney to help the cold meat down. Told him
to ask for Australian. He came back with the reply that
they only stocked English, price Is. 9d. I thereupon
made a personal onslaught on the establishment, and
after a well-directed volley of comment, discovered that
South Australian chutney was stocked, price 6£d., and
very good stuff, too. I liked it better than the Cold
Country product, but I did feel D—d Wild that a Arm
dependent upon S.A. for its business should hide the
State’s products from customers, to try and force the
sale of foreign substitutes at three times the price.
* * * *
“T. O’Fipp ” : Why this rage for tagging bits
of dead language on to articles of clothing ? My hat is
branded with the words “ Dum spiro spero,” and a
heraldic device that looks like a poor-conditioned hen
waving a gum-branch. (It is also ambiguously marked
“London and Melbourne —English finish,” though I have
every reason to believe it is Australian-made.) When I
go to buy collars and shirts I sometimes find them re-
marking “ Domine dirige nos,” or “ Multum in parvo,” or
something else out of a dictionary appendix. Even my
trouser-buttons are stamped with “Tenax propositi,”
and when I glanced at my new boots, sure enough they
were of the “ Ora pro nobis ” brand. I hate to be dressed
in all these dead languages. It feels like wearing a hanged
man’s clothes.
THE CALL OF THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who are the men that rattle in this sort
The sounding kerosene-tin, this dull noon,
In this far-inland suburb ? What their boon ?
Mussels they vend, one penny for a quart!
Gods ! that once more like them I could resort
Where I first saw the waves beneath the moon—
Yea, even to Port Melbourne’s spiced lagoon,
Where lurks the shell-fish on its pier-pile fort.
I! A shop-walker ! Even Blank and Oo.’s!
Thus to be—This way, madam ! —envying
A common hawker ? Yearning thus to chuck
Well-creaskd pants and superfine half-hose,
And hunt coarse mussels ! Ay, and even to sling
You, chaste frock-coat, for moleskins and a truck !
vie.
TERENCE O'FIPP.
FALSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a Face a-shining in the dark.
I stooped ; I said, “ Ah, damn !” and flung it down.
False it was—false and leering like a shark ;
Bloodless, lifeless—a bad half-crown.
N.s.w.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


Tl)€S€ TEA POTS ri)aks a
SPLENPIP CUP OF TEA!
BUY one for home use or as a Wedding Gift. Nowadays there is
such a demand for Novelties to give at a wedding that the
Everyday Useful Article is quite left out in the cold, and now,
instead of getting half-a-dozen Tea Pots, the probability is the Bride
does not get one. Think of these when next you want a Wedding
Present. They are good value—every one of them. We post them
Free anywhere, on receipt of remittance. Write for our Catalogue.
No. F 1285. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 16s 6d
No. Fll6l. Full-size Silver-plated Tea P*t,
£1 15s
No. E 3703. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2
No. F 5099. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
S3S3*
No. K 3792. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 2s.
No. P 6136. Heavy Solid Silver Tea Pot, Full size,
Handsome Design, £l5 10s. In Best Plate, &i 10s.
No. F 6135.
Massive Solid Silver Full-size Tea Pot,
lticlily Ornamented, £l3 10s.
GS79. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, 17s 6d
No. 127134. Full-size Silver-plated Tua Put,
32s Ofl
No. 367. Full-size SVlver-plated Tea l’ot,
£2 5s
No. F 4387. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 10s.
s|S>
E
No. 3GS. Full-size Silver-plated Tea Pot, £3 3s.
No. E7C9O. Full-size Silver-plated lea tot,
£4 10s.
No. FCI37. “Louis Quatorze” Tea Pot, Very
Massive Solid Silver, £22 10s.
Address all
Your Orders
to . . .
$071%
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Auckland, Wellington
Christchurch, Dunedin, London.
BOVRIL
SwppSSes Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
THE SOOTHIN6 INFLUENCE of tb« . . .
EPISON PHONOGRAPH !
Music is a solace to tlie tired brain—it
soothes—it cheers —it enlightens. We
are selling the finest EDISON PHONO-
GRAPHS at American Prices.
Cut this out and post to us, and we will send you
our Catalogue and full particulars.
Name
Address.
MAJUC
TRAM
Sfw
mu
0«g&
20,000 RECORDS to Select from —Is, Is 3d, Is 6d & Is 9d each.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers oi Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
I
.
Kolibrl Arc Lamp .
THE BEST ELECTRIC LAMP
for Dwellings, Shops, Show-
windows, etc., etc., is the
Kolibri Arc Lamp!
MADE FOR DIRECT AND
ALTERNATING CURRENT.
It gives 160 candle power, and consumes less than
half of the current required by the best incan-
descent lamps.
Sole Australian Agents—
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
t no KP 33°x! e
Cr* HANNA and KAVANAGH STS., SOUTH MELBOURNE. [2
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd,
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Froxen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
for Conveyance of
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE
LANGTON GRANGE
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 0,300
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS .. 7,300
First. Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, S\DNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo,
Aires 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Hock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Buenos
Africa.
THE COGO/\ OF THE OLD COUNTRY
sdf
I
Aosolutery rure
It is the purest ai\d nvost
cocoa iause. It’s aicest too. <dr"~'
*f/i£ lAJiCEf saysCadbury's is the standardof highestpunty^
wn~
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
George and Alice Sts,, BRISBANE
(adjoining Parliament House, Queensland Club, and the
Botanical Gardens).
HOTEL OF THE HIGHEST GLASS.
Porter awaits arrival of all Boats and Trains.
MODERATE TARIFF. ALL MODERN CONVENIENCES.
W. PETERMANN,
(late of Lennon’s), Proprietor.
Also at Toowoomba.


“ Is superior even to meat and 01
Inestimable value as a food.”
—Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL k
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children a
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerou*,”
The Pipe
Without a Rival
FheStandard of Quality
in Briar Pipes.
obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
ivosNMoanojunma
By the BROOKS SYSTEM.
If you can drive a nail and cut out a piece
of material from a fuil-sized pattern—you
can build a canoe—row-boat —saii-boat—or
launch—in your leisure time—at home, and
the buildingr will be a source of profit and
pleasure.
All you need are the patterns, costing' from
10s. up, and materials, from £l. The tools are
common in every household. Patterns of over
40 styles and sizes—all lengths from 12 to 55 ft.
The Brooks System consists of exact-size
printed paper patterns of every part of the
boat—with detailed instructions and Working:
Illustrations showing each step of the work—
an itemised bill of material required and how
to secure it.
Over 6000 amateurs successfully built boats
by the Brooks System last year. Fifty per
cent, of them have built their second boat.
Many have established themselves in the boat-
manufacturing business.
Catalogue and particulars free. For Is.,
100-page catalogue containing valuable
information for the amateur yachts
man, showing several working illus-
trations of each boat, and a full set for
one boat. Full line of knock-down
and completed boats.
Brooks Boat Mfg. Co
Originators of the
Pattern System of
Boat Building,
Ship Street,
df
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
i Four Weeks by the use of
Q 6 R * COROs
eSS£W cE °f U f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faukling & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
H
1
■
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists.' Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they.feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book op Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks'
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
Hovv to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Braising, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
ipost.. .How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post: How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own" Builder, Is.' Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is" posted. Speeches‘and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6di On Our Kkw Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, ls6d. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t toe fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. §dT~ Kstablixlied HO Yearn.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed- 1906 Edition, Is posted.
Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post.. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings,' is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s . Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore's Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 'pages, cloth
bound, 10s Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post.: j2OO Old-Time Songs (words and music, com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6<l posted. Virile Powers- 6f Superb Manhood,
ss. i> CAMERON of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and manv
othersv all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First.
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s ; Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks With
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, is od.
SIR ROBERT
D|T A D
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE f
ointment
CURES
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
-FT*
I INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
, you just what Hypnotism is and
! what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
packaee of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
df
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, «9 Pitt St., Sydney*
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
• DIARRHCEA, <fcc. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
df
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.O.f SYDNEY.
d
T TRIED every known treatment and device without
1 help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don't waste time and
money as i did. Write me, mentioning this paper, aim j
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free oi charge, to any-
one interested.
Address; A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
WOOL
A.
TALLOW
SHEEPSKINS
1L&F1 CO., Ltd.
SYDNEY.
HIDES
The Illustrated. Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says “ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ 1 'V;
*
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGEE’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
“Viator”: The San Francisco Overland
Monthly last year had a soheme by a lady for
reconstructing San Francisco. Curious how
writers alight at times on such uncanny things—
not exactly prophecy in this case, but perhaps a
little of the sub conscious. Anyhow, here is the
chance. Wren had a most sensible plan for
rebuilding London after the fire, but the stupid
citizens insisted on a reproduction of their old
Strand, Cheapside, and other cracks and alleys.
A few months ago, one Dr. Stark, a
Yankee tooth merchant in Launceston (Tas.), was
making laughing gas, when an explosion took
place that was no laughing matter at all. The
surgery was blown to atoms, and the doctor
escaped by the tails of his coat. After this he
invented something—perhaps the extraction of
teeth by dynamite—and started for ’Frisco to
take out a patent. Another Yankee molar-
man, his partner or something, went before
him. The partner reached ’Frisco in time for
the earthquake, but was saved with his
womenkind. The man who had been blown up
in Launceston turned up at the Golden Gate
fifteen days too late to be blown up again, but
in time to discover the rest of the firm waiting
for him among the ruins.
The London magistrate’s decision that most
whisky isn’t whisky, and that nothing is whisky
that isn’t pot-still whisky, hasn’t, pending an
appeal, knocked out the market in whisky-
distillery shares. The difference between the
whisky that is alleged not to be whisky and pot-
still whisky, which is whisky, is the "difference
between all-malt spirit and the other sort —grain
spirit, potato spirit, %c. Ali-nialt whisky is made
from malted barley ; the best of the other whisky
(“grain whisky”) is three-parts the pro-
duct of unmalted stuff, and is made in
a patent, instead of a pot, still. There is
very little all-malt whisky on the market,
the output is limited, so what there is isn’t adver-
tised, and practically no well-known brand is all-
malt. And it wouldn’t have much hope of win-
ning popularity, anyhow ; for even the caSe-
hardened whisky drinker generally finds it too
heavy for his digestion. Probably no jury would
ever agree on the ideal whisky; but a majority
verdict would most likely be obtained for a blend
of, say, 33£ per cent, of pot-still and 66§ per
cent, of old, matured and unadulterated grain
spirit, which the London magistrate says isn’t
whisky. It is the new, raw grain or potato spirit
that is Sheol.
An ex-M.L.A. (probably he is dead now)
was once sold out under a court judgment, and
among the goods seized by the bailiff were thirty
Government blankets branded as for the use of
aborigines. Obtaining blankets for the aborigines
was once a thriving Parliamentary industry, some
members drawing as many as 200 pairs in the
course of a winter.


To soothe
the Skin ,
smarting under the heat of %
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT’S
Prickly.heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
<5
y j£m
m
m
Tj.
=s>
mm
l
There s IViore Money in the Buffalo
Engines than in any other
Their first cost is lower than others.
The terms on which they are sold are VERY easy.
They are simpler than others.
J c f n be 3n dozens of places where the ordinary engine
would be quste impracticable on account of its greater weight.
over frerJi n i^ h ?^ 0 ™ in 9 season » < by hitching your plows to a “Buffalo” you can turn
over frorn 15 to 2o acres per eight hours day at a cost of less than 3/- per acre.
<Jawn * 0 dusk during the threshing and chaff-cutting seasons,
uttalo Engines can be seen in every State earning good money for their owners.
- S ? as alr " ost J invariably been the case that the “Buffalo” has, by
bSoretfey became adaptability, earned all payments but the small Initial one
scores ofTa«l?iedpayers? IN ° W ’ giV ' n9 fU " P articu,ars a " d testimonials from
There’s MONEY in the “Buffalo”
International Harvester Company
of America
Brisbane, Sydney. Melbourne, Adelaide,
Launceston and Christchurch
Agents Throughout Australasia*
WILL ANDRADE... BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is : post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks Reciter., Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each’
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise *
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano Is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Houle’s Card
Games, Is. Picture Frame Making, is 3d
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
tiill i
v<
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring-Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanica
Books.
No. 6 —Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
KNGWrNGApOXJT Fully Illustrated. Deals with breed!,,- breaking
training, sheltering- buying, selling, telling age racing, etc. Diseases-their causes, how to know them and
how to cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/3.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
I genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d’
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter. Writer
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d’
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d’
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE
MELBOURNE.
L.
j AIDS DIGESTION.
= BRACES THE NERVES-
PLASMON
T , COCOA
non-heating. One cup contains
more nourishment than 10 cdpa g t
ft any ordinary cocoa.
m
y
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest . improved high grade ELECTKIC
BELTS FREE.
the DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
lilt will aloe free srijs
to us one eopy uf our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day,
The Dr. Austin Co. #
9(7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paoer.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
_ PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
PR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDUEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive, ■
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
jnggnrn by Dr Langston’s Perfect
uUnCU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k —
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE’’
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand
London, England.
A Magazine for Elderly Ladies was a
printer’s idea discussed in Sydney during the
week. Saturday’s Herald, however, was found
to fill the bill.
In Freetrade England! A woman the
other day told the Lambeth (Eng.) guardians that
she “finished” volunteer trousers for payment
which worked out at less than a penny an hour,
and investigation showed the story to be true.
It was found that for years the woman had risen
at 3 o’clock in the morning, worked in her room
till seven, and then gone to the factory, where
she was engaged until half-past seven at night.
She worked also on Sundays, and had never
earned more than 9s. a week. To add to the
tragedy of it, she was 63 years of age. Asked by a
Daily Express interviewer what she had for
dinner, she replied: “Anything I can get fora
penny. Sometimes a bit of bread and some
water. I always have a cup of tea at tea-time,
though.” And the old face brightened at the
thought of that solitary luxury.
“Melb.” : Miss Thorne is here, with her
consumptive cure. She was a medical student at
Sydney University, and propounded it. The
patient inhales hot, dry medicated air to kill the
microbes. The idea was somewhat laughed out
of Sydney, but Miss Thorne went to England.
Her apparatus is now used in Brompton Hospital.
She is going to Berlin. Meanwhile the Vic.
Board of Health will experiment with her cure at
the Eehuca Sanatorium.
Melbourne Australasian published this
item recently :
The apotheosis of the slave trade was revealed in a case
(in New York, U.S.A.) where a negro had for years re-
cruited the vicious dens of his own race with young white
girls, abducted from the vicinity of schools, and kept im-
prisoned in depdts until their degradation was complete.
Shocking, certainly. Yet the Australasian still
prints articles asserting that a White Australia is
impossible and undesirable. If it only looked up
the Court records of its own city it would
find that cases in which girls of school
age have been debauched by loathsome
colored aliens are by no means uncommon.
It only needs enough nigger to make this horror
an everyday occurrence in Australia, and it is no
fault of the Australasian that there isn’t
enough nigger. Meanwhile the paper shows its
strict impartiality by being very angry at the de-
praved nigger—in New York.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
PRINCE OF WALES STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., Prince of Wales Birthday •••
BRIGHTON PLATE, Brighton, Tasmania, June 4
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 7 •••
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
50,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
SS. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The T ASM ANT AN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
NOW OPEN
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
HoV\ott\er s\\ovAd toe wfctooxft \\. \ seut oxx Y ec~
Aprogress/ise d/etary adapted to toe prowmp d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food mi I Milk Food N? 2 I Malted Food N 93
from t/rtt to 3moods I from 3to 6 moods | from 6 moods upwards.
u
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON'T DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABIT
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will he destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected a cure. I huve no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully, -
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Pree.
The Dr. Langston Institute,
12 9* COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEIWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist. Geelong.
Dear Sir,—Some momms ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
a severe attack ol influenza, and was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling some-
what better, I got up and tried to transact my business
as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a' relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me hut temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure—from Victoria, which had
cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second bottle,
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the
Fains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,
was able to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faith-
fully, J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis
ture that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we
saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned. —Yours
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/o Mr. Harvey, Baker,
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken w’ell of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Cop-
manhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured one man that bad a distressing- cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment.—Yours thankfully, WILLIAM CANHAM,
Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have taken (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydai.e Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, and now recommend it to my friends. Wishing you
every success.-—I am yours truly, J. ERSIiINE,
Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE CASES CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything, and had advice, but
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night out of my chair. If I went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to my memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue to highly recommend it for both old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours truly,
HERBEET E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently say it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it, —Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis ■
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever frea f
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well.—
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth. —I am yours truly,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbanlc, via Avoca, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.,
BRA *?» Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


DON’T DIET.
JT needs all kinds of food to supply the numer-
ous demands of the body. That’s why nature
gives us such a generous variety. Eat all your
appetite calls for. That’s what your appetite is for,
to let you know what elements of nutrition you
really need. Eat all you want. Dr. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES will digest it for you,
for they contain all the natural digestants as found
in a ’healthy stomach.
• • ®
Dr. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are sold everywhere at 2s. 6d. per tin of 80
Tabules, or if unable to procure locally will be
posted, upon receipt of price by
SHELDON DRUG CO.,- 15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
6000
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
SI/nlichT
LAUNDRY SOAP
VERY
VERY
GOOD
322
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
SAVE
THE CHILD!
Weakly little ones are
made strong and
bonny by SCOTT'S
EMULSION of cod
liver oil and hypo-
phosphites of lime
and soda, os Fragile
ones are made robust,
ailing ones made well.
Mothers who give
Scott's give their chil-
dren health and save
themselves anxiety,
I Hill Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W., October
18, 1905. 44 My little daughter Mildred,
aged months, had a severe attack of
bronchitis and seemed to be just wasting
away; she was so weak that she could
not take any nourishment or even turn over
in bed. However, from the first dose of
Scott's Emulsion I noticed an improvement
in her condition and now she is quite like
a different child, for she looks and eats well
and can get about all over the place."
(Mrs.) A. Barden.
A good plan is to keep a bottle of Scott's
by you and give a dose at the first sign of
chill, cold, cough, skin trouble, teething,
weakliness or languor. Always have
Scott's for children. Scott's is the original
and far better than any imitation can be.
Always set the Emul-
sion with this mark—the
irishman—the mark of
the "Scott”process!
It is absolutely safe, sure
in its effects, economical, J
nice to take and bound
to agree,
Prove this. Write at
once for a free trial bottle
(enclosing 4d. for post-
age and mentioning this
paper). Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The Victor and the Voices,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE ocean sleeps to-night; I did not know
This world held half the peace that hovers
round ;
The wavelets whisper as they come and go
And the broad calm gives out no other sound.
Rest lies along the ocean like a cloud—
Far in the night belated fishers hail;
(Who called t) —Rest slumbers—what was that ?
the loud
And languid flap of some recumbent sail ?
lam victorious. Failures harassed me,
Despair felt at my heart, but could not rend
The harmony of power—l, languidly,
Glide down one song of peace unto the end.
The cry of a far liner’s whistle blown
Comes like a bird song at the break of day ;
Afar (Who called ?) the lamps of Williamstown
Throw trembling lines of light across the bay.
Thunder and God’s unutterable night,
The harrowing wrath of ages, the shrill cries
Of hungry children shuddering from the light,
Burden our world of fogs that never rise.
Along a fierce infernal world of woe,
Fast in the toils of commerce that enmesh
The soul and muscle, frayed by storm we go
With rusted fetters burning in our flesh.
Who spoke of silence ? Thunder and the deep
Immitigable darkness of long years !
How the still rapture of untroubled sleep
Hovers, askance, from our transcendent tears l
How can a man lie laughing by the sea
While at his back the world, violent, unjust,
Rides with its thundering hoofs o’er what might be
Fair blossoms of great hope and love and truth ?
Rest l These thin groping arms and faces white
With fear immortal, and these leaden eyes
Shame this calm moon, these quiet waves to-night,
To let the victor slumber with his prize !
Go back ! I have not thought of you for years,
You hungry spectres, blotting God’s fair plan ;
You hungry voices, bitter with all tears
Shed since the savage wars of class began.
Who sent you here ? I hoped for peace to-night;
Your voices, acrid with the world’s regret,
Bring back the ruinous times, and the black
blight
Of the old war ! Oh, can I not forget ?
Out of the track of the ships,
On an isle in the sunlit sea,
With red reluctant lips,
A girl is awaiting me.
Her voice is a melody,
The sun makes gold in her hair,
She loves my dreams and me,
And rest—( Who called ?)—is there.
Out of a chasm of withering nights, of regretful
Slow tears, our cries from this dark
Go, faint, to our f amishing star as niggardly , fret-
ful,
It glimmers—a spark.
We cry to her: “How shall our visions and his-
tories flower
In the grip of a strangling trance ?
We were all of us conquerors, girded with honor
and dower,
If the gods would give us a chance ?
Were rich with great triumph and laurels and
glory and power,
If the gods would give us a chance ! ”
When the sun came up I marched away
And whom did you leave behind ?
To where the world’s great chances lay,
And whom did you leave behind ?
And me from the million men they chose,
To crown with the victor’s wreath of rose ;
And little thy glutted spirit knows
Of the weak ones left behind 1
I was swift of foot and keen of eye,
And we were lame and blind !
And Envy shrieked as I passed by,
Envy was lame and blind !
I slew the Guardians of Success,
Fought failure in the wilderness ;
When will the braggart heart confess
He fought the lame and blind l
The morning lends my soul her wings,
The ocean gives me power;
My hand some drop of triumph wrings
From each successive hour !
Fate fights for me—for me hope sings.
And we, who fail, declare
There's something at the back of things
That is not fighting fair l
I dreamed that peace was his reward
Who struggled upward—yet
Fate sends the conquered, panting hard,
To teach me their regret.
I sought for peace in the morning light
By creeks that laugh and croon,
Through the golden day till the sky was white
With the coming of the moon ;
And I said to my heart in the silent night,
“ Will peace be coming soon ? ”
We sought for peace till the lowering sun
Made gold in the 'west lagoon ;
But women wept for things ill-done
Till Hope fell in a sivoon :
And men tramped past her, one by one,
Their world-cry blotted out the sun—
" Will peace be coming soon l"
VIC.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
The Humorist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE night was as still as the depths of
a valley. Behind the scrub-lined road
leading from Maroubra Bay came the
sound of breaking surf. A lamp shone clearly
from a pier end. A woman’s voice broke the
silence; it seemed to pierce the senses at first
with its shrill delight, then it grew faint as
though oppressed with pain.
Chinese lanterns swung from the verandah of a
red-tiled villa. A number of cabs lay half-con-
cealed in the shadows. A voice said “ Where is
Mrs. Ambrose ? What a night—what a beautiful
night! Someone is going to sing the Jewel Song.”
The first notes of Gounod’s Prelude floated
from the distant drawing-room. A young man
halted suddenly near the house palings, and
listened attentively to the words of the song.
“It is magnificent,” he whispered. “Satan put
his seal on the scales of the Jewel Song. I feel
like composing a hymn to the pawnbroker.”
With his hand on the house-gate, the young
man remembered that he was wearing his office
clothes. It also occurred to him that Mrs.
Ambrose was entertaining her friends. In her
last letter to him she had said something about a
fancy dress ball. He had just returned from
Melbourne by steamer. During the passage he
had been ill, and for two days the world and the
flesh were matters of less interest than the
villainous heave and roll of the steamer. A day
or two ashore found him wondering how he could
have lived a whole month cut off from the society
of Yenetia Ambrose.
He opened the gate stealthily, and approached
the rear of the house. Through orange and violet
colored panes he saw the shapes of men and
women in fancy costumes—toreadors, gondoliers,
Hamlets and Ophelias, with here and there an
Othello or a brigand—all out of joint, limping,
pouting, feeling their parts no more than wood or
ice.
Philip Atherton, in serge clothes, had no desire
to mingle with such a medley of color and
humorless vanity. He strolled disconsolately to an
obscure seat near a side door and waited. He
did not wait long. The questing eyes of Airnee,
the French maid, discovered him. There was a
flutter of ribbons in the hall and the flash of a
vanishing ankle. Then—Atherton breathed—a
rush of white silk and perfumed lace, of flowers
with the aroma of night and woman upon them.
She sat beside him with the breathless humility
of a saint. He observed an exquisite modesty in
her movements. She was like a nun approaching
a prince of the church. Yet her humility struck
him as a token of passionate obedience. Her
mood was more poetic than her beauty. And a
schoolgirl might have guessed that he was her
lover.
“ Dear, when did you come back?”
“Only yesterday. I ought to have written.
Does it matter?”
“Every moment of your absence matters,
Philip. When you are away lam seized with
moments of horrible despair.”
“Despair is the heritage of kings, Venetia.”
She shivered a little as he hissed her. Somewhere
in the illumined house a violin wailed a passionate
accompaniment. Between heartbeats Atherton
caught the slow rhythm of distantju^f; it sounded
intensely tragic. “Why shggj||HP u despair?”
he went on. “You have evif^OT^: —carriages,
horses, an income, and even a husb^pa.”
“Hush, Philip.” She held up her hand
protestingly. An utterable look stole into her
eyes.
“May I not mention him, ? Why does it annoy
you, Yenetia, whenever I speak of him ? ”
“Because he is dead,” she answered sharply.
“ Dead, and there is a mountain on his grave.”
He felt her almost crouch from his touch. A
shade of anger passed over him ; then he laughed.
“ When a woman wears black and speaks of her
husband in a low voice we know that he is dead ;
but when a lady faces the night in white silk and
heliotrope, and tells one that her dear brute is
dead—dead—dead, one supposes that he is renting
a villa for the other woman, Which death has
your husband preferred, Venetia?”
“For pity’s sake don’t irritate me, Phil. I
must go from here soon. The place is hateful.
Each day it becomes . . . Oh, pity me Phil,
pity me ! ” She was almost kneeling at his feet.
The dread of some terrible awakening moved in
her eyes. He had seen it in the faces of opium-
ravaged women.
“You are out of sorts,” he said kindly. “I
had better go. Shall I call your maid ? I will be
here to-morrow, early.”
“ Philip ! ”
“ I will call to-morrow, early,” he repeated
slowly. “You are excited, Venetia. These
fancy dress balls are bad for the nerves. You
cannot entertain Hamlet and Ophelia with im»
punity.”
The French maid appeared breathlessly in the
passage. “ Madame, ze gentlemen en ladies spik
of ze tableau. Zey look eferywhere for you.”
Mrs. Ambrose turned with a sudden gaiety of
manner. “Please don’t go until I return, Mr,
Atherton. Promise me.”
“ I promise. But you may tell the toreador in
your drawing-room that a bull has broken into the
back garden.”
The French maid broke into laughter. Ather-
ton watched then: depart, and re-lit his pipe. He
liked not the part he was playing in the life of
Mrs. Ambrose. A subtle fear of the absent hus-
band, who was alleged to be dead, unnerved him
at times. Someone had told him that Bindon
Ambrose was a sea captain and trader, who made
yearly trips to the Islands, where copra and pearl
still awaited the venturesome man of business.
Atherton had never met him, but in fancy he
pictured him—a raw, uncouth mariner with tat-
tooed arms and the chest of a baresark.
“Some day,” mused Atherton, “I shall meet
him. Then I suppose there will be trouble be-
tween the corpse and me.”
A cart jolting in the bye-lane awoke him from
his brooding. His pipe had gone out. The waltz
music and the sound of the dancers’ feet only
depressed him. The cart drew up at the side
gate. A Chinaman descended from the seat and
assisted a strange figure to the ground.
Atherton was not interested in the cart or the
Chinaman, but the faint tinkling of bells dis-
turbed him. A grotesque figure shambled
through the gate and down the path, and at each
step the bells jangled unmusically.
Atherton stooped forward and saw that the
quaint figure was attired in the costume of a court
jester. “ These fancy dress balls are the safety-
valves which allow a certain number of lunatics
to blow off steam,” he muttered.
A cloud drew across the moon. A thick shadow
swam over the house and grounds. It occurred to
Atherton that the jester was approaching some-
what unsteadily, after the manner of a marionette
or a belated drunkard.
The Chinaman watched the jester for a moment,
then returned to the cart and sat with his back to
the house. The bells tinkled nearer. The odd
figure tottered down the gravel walk until it stood
trembling and ringing in front of Atherton. The
latter did not speak; with his chin resting in
both hands he eyed the bell-capped visitor
sneeringly. “These are the servants’ quarters,”
he said coldly. “ Better ring yourself in at the
front door.”
The jester halted, and sighed wearily. “I
came . . . here to see Philip Atherton, not to eat
and dance.” His head wagged sorrowfully. He
looked back at the cart in the lane, and then
stared vacuously at the illuminated house.
“ name is Philip Atherton. What do you
want ?”
■ .Nothing.” The jester laughed faintly, and
then, with a half-heard whimper of pain, he sat
on the bench beside Atherton. And as he sat
with knees huddled and face averted, the other
grew rigid and breathless like a man with a
knife at his breast. Leaping to his feet he stared
at the swollen mask-like face of the jester, and his
knees grew soft as bread. “Are you . . . wear-
ing something ... or is that your real face ? ” he
asked.
“It was my faee before the devil mauled it with
his branding irons.”
‘ ‘ Who are you ? ” demanded Atherton. 1 ‘ Why
did you come here in a Chinaman’s cart ? ”
The jester looked surprised ; his cap tinkled
plaintively. “I am a humorist. I was a sour,
unlikeable fellow before the devil and I met.
Then I became a humorist.”
“ Have you ever made anyone laugh ? ” Ather-
ton remained standing. A feeling bitter as death
took him by the throat.
“Laugh! Even you may see this evening’s
joke when lam dead.” The jester touched him
lightly on the arm with his hooded stave. “It
will come to you suddenly in the night, and the
humor of it will rip your heart asunder as it
ripped mine. I planned it in my hut, down there
by the sea. The Chinaman helped else I would
never have got here.”
“Who are you ?”
The jester stooped as though concealing his face
from the sudden flood of moonlight. “My name
is Bindon Ambrose.”
Atherton’s teejth seemed as if they wanted to
chatter. “I suppose you are the husband of
Venetia Ambrose? Why don’t you wear decent
clothes?” he .said, thickly. “What is all this
clowning about? She said you were dead. How
was I to know it wore bells and consumed its own
laughter?”
He paced the gravel walk with the slow auger
of his kind. He did not ask himself where
Bindon Ambrose had been for the last few years.
The fool hud returned in the guise of a fool. Then
a thought sprang to his mind, leaving him cold
and sick. “ Why do you show yourself to me?”
he demanded. “Do you want to be revenged
because I love her ?”
The jester held up a finger and the bells tinkled
a childish accompaniment. “Revenge is the
essence of melodrama. Everything is melo-
dramatic —the slave’s anguish, the midnight fear
of a king. War and the insane booming of guns
is foolish. Love itself makes clowns of men and
women. ”
“What is tragedy?” sneered Atherton; The
jester raised his thick white face and the moon-
beams glinted upon it and turned it to silvfeh
“ It is not for me to say,” he answered meekly.
“ I tried to find it once, but it ran away laughing
and left me like this.” He lifted his arm feebly
and it seemed to crack like the joint of a
marionette. “I rejoice to see my wife in the
midst of so much happiness.”
He rose from the seat wearily, and paused
in the path for a moment as he caught the sound
of a woman’s voice. “ That is my wife singing.
Her voice is full of beauty.”
The moonlight seemed to stay in his eyes. He
shaded his face with a thickly-gloved hand as he
hobbled down the path. The Chinaman assisted
him into the cart, and drove slowly down the
narrow road towards the bay.
Atherton followed stealthily. It was a long
way, but the time and the distance were both
unnoticed. The cart creaked on. The road
turned suddenly into the scrub. Beyond and
almost at the water’s edge lay several outbuild-
ings, Atherton halted uncertainly and afar off as
the cart paused near a gate.
A fisherman with a basket came past whistling.
“ What place is that ? ” Atherton pointed to
where the cart had pulled up.
The fisherman eyed him curiously. “That’s
where the lepers live, ”he said. “ Good night I**
ALBERT DOŔINGTON.


sdf
A DISORDERED LIVER, if not attended to, very often brings in
its train serious results. The stomach, the digestive organs, and
the kidneys become lax in their duties. Pimples and blotches
appear, and the complexion generally assumes a nasty yellow tint. All
the symptoms of liver disorder are too numerous to mention, but the
W<
n
most common are pains m the back,
difficulty in breathing, a general
feeling of depression and discontent,
and loss. of appetite. A disordered
liver needs to be corrected in a
natural and easy manner, and not
by taking purgatives, mineral salts,
and other injurious preparations.
The finest natural vegetable remedy
known to medical science in this
century is Bile Beans. They cure
all disorders of the liver quite easily
and naturally. They also cure per-
manently by righting first causes :
and for this reason there is absolutely
nothing else that is “just as good.”
Read this proofM rs. E. Barker, of Horton Cottage,
39 Emma-street, Leichhardt, Sydney, says : “Before my
little boy was born T was greatly troubled with Bilious-
ness, accompanied by horrible headaches and body pains. I was con-
stantly retching and could not retain my food. At times I would become
faint and giddy, was altogether unable to attend to my household duties,
and my life was quite a misery to me. A friend advised me to tiy Bile
Beans, which I did. From the first dose I began to improve in health,
and by the time I had used two small boxes
I was my old self again. I am now able to
enjoy my food, and household work is a
pleasure to me, for which I am indeed
grateful.”
BILE BEANS have a world-wide reputation as a
proved cure in cases of BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, CONSTI-
PATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAK-
NESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD, BAD
BREATH, ANAEMIA, RHEUMATISM, and, by
giving tone to the system, will ward off COUGHS,
COLDS, and INFLUENZA. Obtainable generally at
Is. or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (contains three times
the Is. l|d. size).
BEANS◄
fOR
BILIOUSNESS
A. ®> F. ,
PEARS,;
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties |
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Malice I
having been brought to Messrs. A. $ F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being (
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street, |
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings ,
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc. * ■
The Fine Heart.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU do not understand me ? No ; nor I
Myself do know myself. At times I seem
To stand apart and watch myself go by
As in a troubled dream,
It is no dream, for there is no awaking,
Nor yet the uncertain sleep a dream demands;
But a dim sense of phantoms overtaking
My soui in shadowy lands,
Where all is glorious for one golden hour —
Garden and fountain, flower and lofty fane ;
And then, as falls a sudden summer shower,
Descends the mist again !
But in my mind, half-hid, sits Recollection
Of those ethereal fields and mystic glades;
And on my soul there falls the faint reflection
Of Light that never fades.
Then do I strive to piece each broken glory—
To build again the fountain and the fame ;
And, lo ! there are no words to tell the story,
And all my thought is vain.
But go your way and let me, here remaining,
Shape such fine fancies as the gods shall send ;
Blind, and half-blind—and happy thus attaining
Each to his destined end.
For you shall find a world so weighed with duty
That flowers in vain lie spangled at your feet;
In. vain shall roses in their pride and beauty
Fling out a fragrance sweet.
In vain the Sea uplift in song resounding
His myriad voices jubilant and strong,
Deafened by cries distracting and confounding
You never hear the song.
But I, the Dreamer, have perchance been granted
Some sight, some sound, while you did sleep or
toil,
Uncaring that there lies a Land enchanted
Beyond this mortal soil.
Some rare, brief glimpse, beyond the narrow
portal
Of this dark House whose windows are so blurred,
Of shining domes and palaces, immortal
And wondrous past all word ;
Wherein, ’mid joyous music and light laughter,
At wine and feast, and crowned with fadeless
wreath,
They sit, the Powers of Here and of Hereafter—
The Lords of Life and Death !
And I, the Dreamer, careless of all payment,
Would seek a moment’s audience, and then
Will clothe in bright, imperishable raiment
The naked thoughts of Men !
VIC-
O. C. CABOT.
The Flying Mile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE course was crowded. Every settler,
and his family and dogs, for miles round
was present.
The club had a new starter and a new judge for
this meeting. Doolan (the old starter) and Regan
(the old judge) were discharged men. Doolan
had a habit of starting the field when some par-
ticular horse was well on his journey. It didn’t
alway happen, even then, that this horse would
pass the winning post first; but somehow Regan
never seemed to notice any horse that passed
before that one, and usually awarded him the race
unless he was lying down half-a-mile back.
“Janny, what’ll win the Flyin’ Mile?” in-
quired Doolan of his friend Regan.
“ Dunno,” answered Regan, pulling the tobacco
out of his pipe with great deliberation. “ Dunno,
I’m sure.”
“Well, see,” said Doolan sidling up to him.
“ Cassidy have Sarsfield in it, an’ if he gets a good
start they’ll never come near him. Cassidy tells
me there’s on’y one that might trouble him, an’
that’s the bookmaker’s horse, War Eagle. Now,
if I was on’y the starter ”
“I know—l know,” interrupted Regan. “ Whin
you were starter an’ I was judge a man c’u’d put a
few shillin’s on a horse an’ get a fair chance to
win, but now—pshaw.” He spat on the ground
with great disgust. “ That feller, Dunn, that’s
startin’, is a fool—lie’s a dribblin’ idjit. I had
Moses backed t’ win fifteen shillin’s th’ fust race,
an’ I offered him half t’ let him get a good start.
He refused, an’ sed it was agin his religi’n t’ take
a bribe like that.”
“No wonder,” said Doolan. “I’m surprised
he didn’t knock y’ down fer insultin’ him. Seven-
an’-six ! Regan, y’ want t’ approach a man like
Dunn wid diplomacy. I’ll go an’ see what can be
done wid him.”
"Good day, Mr. Dunn,” said Doolan to the
starter. “How are y’?—yer lookin’ well. Y’
have a most unthankful job, Mr. Dunn. I had a
few years of it, an’ I ought t’ know. No matter
how fair y’ start 'em there’s alius someone grum-
blin’. An’ a funny thing, now, Mr. Dunn, as y’ll
find, there’s very few ov ’em, afther riskin’ yer
life, maybe, t’ give their horse a fair start, that
’ad ax y’ had y’ a mouth on y’ afther winnin’. Th’
on’y grateful man I iver met on this coorse is
Cassidy, that have Sarsfield in th’ Flying Mile.
But come an’ have a taste av somethin’.”
They went to the booth.
Doolan continued —“Yes, as I was sayin’, Cas-
sidy ’ud treat y’ liberal if he had a win,” and he
eyed Dunn like an adder.
Dunn thought awhile between sups of beer, and
then shook his head slowly. “N—no,” he said—
“No, I don’t think it can be done. The public
you know, Mr. Doolan, the public must be con-
sidered. Anyway, these owners won’t give a
man much.”
“The public ! ” snorted Doolan. “ Why, man,
there’s not a mother’s son av ’em can see the
start from here. They niver know what sort av a
start it is. Anyway, it have nothin’ at all t’ do
wid me, on’y Cassidy gave me this ” (he pulled
out a fiver and unfolded it carefully before
Dunn), “ an’, ses he, ‘ If th’ starter gives my horse
anythin’ like a fair start, he’ll win ; an’ if he
does win, hand th’ starter that.’ Thim are his
words- Anyhow, it’s no affair av mine, so I’ll
have t’ hand it back t’ him.”
Doolan put the note in his pocket and turned
awa y- -Dunn coughed and said, “ Have another
nip. He coughed again. “ What sort of a horse
did you say Cassidy’s was ? ’’
“ A fine chestnut, wid a white hind fut. Here
h e AT IS >” , continued Doolan, leading the way.
-Now there’s a horse fer y’. Look at his quarter
—an his line ! ”
‘‘A good sort,” admitted Dunn.
Just then a starved-looking, bandy-legged
mannikin came up and started to give the horse
a rub down, hissing like a serpent the while.
Are you goin’t’ ride Cassidy’s horse, me bi ? ”
inquired Doolan.
“ No >” answered the mannikin ; “ goin’ ter ride
this ’oss.” And he hissed some more.
“ And isn’t this Cassidy’s horse ? ”
‘INIo; this is War Eagle. There’s Cassidy’s
oss over agin th’ fence.”
“ Ah, I thought it couldn’t be him,” said Doolan
as they stood beside Sarsfield. “ That scrubber ”
(pointing to War Eagle) “is nothin’ to this feller.
1 here s shoulder an* a neck fer y\ There’s a
tail. He’s like greased lightnin’ Cassidy tells
me.”
“Very much like the other,” said Dunn.
“White hind foot and all. How am I going to
tell him from War Eagle at the start ?”
“Oh ! are y’ goin’t’ see that he’s not left at th’
post, then ? ” said Doolan with a surprised air
“Well, out of respect for you and your friend,
Mr. Doolan, I’ll see that no horse gets away in
front of him.”
“Now yer talkin’ sinse,” said Doolan with a
cunning leer. “Y’ll make a successful starter, I
can see. Now this is how y’ll know Sarsfield :
The rider’ll have a red handkercher on his head.
Ye’ll say nothin’ t’ him about anything, fer th’
brat’d be sure t’ go blatherin’ about it t’ someone.”
* * * *
“Saddle hup fer the Flyin’ Mile,” shouted a
man from the booth.
Then there was commotion. A man with a
steelyard was busy weighing the boys, who, with
one leg poked through a girth, dangled about in
the air till they got their weight.
The bookmaker had been narrowly watching
Doolan and the starter, and made a mental note
of their movements. He npw started to lay the
odds. “I’ll bet on the Flyin’,” he bellowed.
“ Two to one th’ fee-eld ! Three to one bar one !
Five to one Bandicoot or Santipee ! Two to one
th’ fee-yeld ! Ten to one Sarsfield—one bet!”
Doolan reared round as if he had been shot in the
rear, but Dunn seized him by the coat tail, and
held him while he nervously forced a couple of
notes into his hand with whispered instructions.
“Five to one, sir.” said the bookmaker to
Doolan’s inquiry. “ Tens all gone. How much ?
Thirty to six ? Right.”
The horses started round to the post. Sarsfield’s
rider had the red handkerchief on his head, War
Eagle’s had a blue cap. The others were bare-
headed. The bookmaker hooked his forefinger,
inserted it in his mouth, and whistled like a late
train. His rider waited for him down the course.
“Now remember what I told you,” he said, as
he left the boy. “Doesn’t matter if it costs a
quid.”
The timber soon hid the horses from view. At
the starting-post Dunn got in front of the horses
and fiercely warned the riders against making
false starts. Also he whispered to the boy with
the red handkerchief, “The second time you come
up, shoot away.”
The horses cantered up, then broke away, the
blue cap in the lead.
“Come back ! ” shouted Dunn.
They went back and turned round. The red
handkerchief stuck the spurs into his mount, and
thundered towards the starter. Dunn dropped
the flag, and away they went, the red handker-
chief ten lengths in the lead.
* ■» * *
“Here they :orae,” shouted a boy, as he leaned
forward and out of a cart.
The peop: il rushed on to the course, but it
was only some dogs after a kangaroo rat.
Round the turn and into the straight the horses
rattled at last, the red handkerchief still in the
lead, sie blue cap next, the rest anywhere. The
din was appalling as they passed the winning
post, the red handkerchief two clear lengths to
the good. The crowd roared in excitement,
people rushed about without knowing what they
were rushing for. Hats were thrown in the air
and lost in the confusion. Horses attached to
carts bolted in great terror. Saddle horses pulled
back, and made off through the crowd with sec-
tions of the fence hanging to their bridles. No
one took any notice except those who wer®
knocked down. Doolan and Regan nearly shook
each other’shands off.
“ What did I tell y’, Janny?” said Doolan,
excitedly. “ Had y’ a good win ? ”
“On’y middlin’. I’d ’a’ won a hatful o’ money
on’y fer her,” he replied, pointing his thumb con-
temptuously at his wife, who, with Mrs. Doolan,
came up all smiles.
“Why didn’t y’ do as I done, Janny—take
no notice av ’em ? She ” (pointing at his wife)
“wanted t’ stop nje, but I had me own way fer
wanst, an’ now I have me thirty gooldin’
sovereigns t’ draw. Come an’ have a drink on
th’ strinth av it, Janny.”
“I’ll pay the outsider,” shouted th® book-
maker. “I’ll pay War Eagle. Roll up you lucky
punters. I’ll pay War Eagle,”
No one had backed War Eagle.
Doolan dropped his glass as he would a viper,
and rushed across to where Sarsfield’s rider was
proudly exhibiting a blue cap to a crowd of
excited boys.
“Yes,” he was saying, “ wasn’t he a flat ? W’en
we was goin’ round ter the start, he guv me this
’ere cap an’ a shillun fer me old red handkercher.
An’ I’d a beat ’im in th’ race, too, on’y he got a
flyin’ start.”
Only that the boy got a flying start Doolan
would have killed him.
PAUL CUPID.
“ Hypo ” communicates :
Between the Yarra and the railway, just above Princes
Bridge, Melbourne, a small army of workers are cutting
and dressing the stone for the new Plinders-street railway
station buildings. The scene suggested to me the con-
stant danger to the workmen. The huge blocks of stone,
fresh from the quarries, are first operated upon by men
with sledge-hammers and gads. The man using the ham-
mer has a mask over his face to keep off the flying chips
of stone. The rest of his body is unprotected. The man
holding the gad chances the hammer falling straight. It
does. Once otherwise would be enough. Afterwards the
stone is passed on (by the crane) to other men with chisels
and hammers, who do wonderful work in smoothing the
surface. They breathe stone dust into their lungs all
day long. Meanwhile the giant arm of the crane is
swinging ton blocks 20ft. overhead, with the attendant
perhaps riding on top of the stone to direct operations
the better. The chain does not break, and the grips
holding the stone don’t give way. But such things
have happened, and will happen again. 'Then . The
engine-driver, watAng his crane and its director with
one eye, and his engine with the other, and his hands
working levers and pins arm-deep amongst cogs and
pulleys—an inch too close to one of which would mean a
smashed arm at least —is not the least dangerously
situated of this typical little army of workers. The risks
of labor ! As I watched the scene described I thought of
the fool crowd who talk about the “ risks of capital."


We take pleasure in publishing the following in»
teresting letter from IVIr. James Sumers, who also
very kindly sends his photograph:
m
“Indigestion and liver complaint,
troubled me greatly, and the money 1 J
spent on various medicines was only
wasted, as they did me no good. A"
friend asked me why I did not take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I thought that if I did the result would
be the same as with the other medi-
cines; but, to my great surprise, after
taking a few doses I felt really better,
and I continued until I had taken, in all,
seven of eight bottles. I was then able
to digest my food, and it made me feel like a new man. I now always
have with me a supply of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” James Sumers, North
Terrace, Adelaide, S. A.
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out.
You must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep
your liver active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be
active, and a feeling of general good health may be yours by keeping
your liver active and your blood pure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla strengthens
the stomach and aids digestion.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla will do all this for you, but
you must insist upon getting “AYER'S,” for it is
stronger, contains more valuable ingredients, and
cures more quickly than any other kind.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., liOweU, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Ayer's Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
a-
I ’’
I/'
HEALTH !
WEIGH perfect health
against the price it
costs, and the result
is always in favor of health...
“ Health at any price ” is
heard on all sides, but we say
to you, “ Health at only a
fair price, and real robust
health for the price. . , For
years we have been teaching the public
the lesson of health, and how to recover
it when lost. We have sold twenty
thousand Health-Givers in Australasia,
and have published thousands of Australian testi-
monials. . • You cannot be strong and robust when
your organs are weak and suffering from insufficient
nerve life. Nerve life is the vital spark in the
body. It is created by the Natural Electrical
Generation through the system. When this is at
low ebb it means that your electrical force is weak, and in
order to regain it you must force outside Electricity into
your nerve centre and organs.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt carries a current of
Electricity into your body for hours at a time. It saturates
every nerve and tissue, stimulates the circulation, destroys
unhealthy or worn-out tissue, and creates new life. This
wonderful appliance will restore a weak .man to his full normal vigor in
three months. It will make you as vigorous at fifty as you were
at thirty. If you are weak at thirty it will restore your vitality.
Worn regularly for ninety days it will cure your weakness
so that—under normal conditions—it will never come on again.
We want you to use this appliance because there are no doubts about the
results. Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is guaranteed in every case
undertaken, and cannot fail if our advice is followed.
Let us send you, post prepaid and Free, our illustrated Book, which
describes our remedy in detail; it also gives the names and addresses of
hundreds of cured patients. . . . Call, if you can, for Free Consultation
and advice. Get the Book and study our method. You are placed under
no obligation to take the remedy unless your judgment prompts you to
do so. Write or Call without delay. Hours: 9 a.m till 6 p.m.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co. ROOKWOOD NSW
Sirs,—lt is now four months since I purchased your Belt, and previous to this I was
sufferer from Rheumatism, not being able to walk or use my limbs without suffering great agonami
was compelled to give up work. Six months during that time I used any amount If Drugs and itnf
nients, which gave relief for the time, and after a day or two the pain returned with greater violent
than before, which completely exhausted me. I have now been wearing your Belt four months
am happy to be able to say I have not the slightest trace of any pain, and can do a good dav’s work
lncon Y, e . n , le , nce - You m ay use this testimony in any way you think fit, so g that some noor
afflicted one will take courage, for relief is within reach. me P oor
I remain, gratefully yours, THOS. WILSON.
The Or. McLaughlin Co.. 100 * - MARKET STRMT ’ SYDNBV
WV> ! 90 WILLIAM ST., PERTH W 4.
107 E. BWANBTON ST., MELBOURNE, VIC. 64 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Please send me pour Free Book.
Name
* Ml
Address
WILLIAM CHARLES C RAW FOR § ****"/******** ******'*“
A BOON TO THE BILIOUS.
Are you compelled to deny yourself many
wholesome foods because yoa think they make
you bilious ? Do you know that your condition
is more to blame than the food ?
Your liver and stomach need attention
more than the diet. When you find yourself
suffering from a bilious attack, take
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
and all annoying symptoms will soon disappear.
They settle the stomach, regulate the liver and
exercise the bowels. Tlieir good effects are felt
immediately.
Beecham’s Pills mingle with the
contents of the stomach, and make easy work
of digestion. The nourishing properties of the
food are then readily assimilated, and the
residue carried off without irritating the
intestines or clogging the bowels.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
should be taken whenever there is sick headache,
furred tongue, constipation sallow skin, or any
symptoms that indicate an inactive liver.
' 0 ' V-: ' Vkk'" ' ;
Sold Everywhere in Boxes.
Price 1/1i (56 Pills) and 2 9 (168 Pills).
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. ifJon’t pay exorbitant f( is to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street. Sydney.
dsf
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures tne same
diseases in
hours Without
d
(#!W)
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving- instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading- this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Reined''
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Ihroat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Cyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co..
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U. SA.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
"how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
Consult DR. MARTIN,
The Old Established, Reliable
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
MEN
AND
"OMEN
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S Great Work on the
Diseases of Men anti Women, contains 84 Illustrations and
Colored Plates. Write To-day for it. POSTED FREE.
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you
apply to him now a copy will be Posted Free for 3s. This
Magnificent Medical Work contains 692 pages Crown Bvo., over 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautifully
Four-Colored Plate—the most interesting, up-to-date and reliable
Medical Work Published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of men
and women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books
advertised FREE TO THE PUBLIC. It is a complete Encyclopedia
of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-standing,
chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book
has ever been published.
PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT
A limited number of Resident
Patients received. Terms Moderate.
ADDRESS
TO-
DR.
M.D.
ELM LEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
[Please mention this paper when writing.]


Asbestos . . .
Boiler Covering
Has Proved its Economy times without number.
PACKED WET, ready for use, in 3cwt. casks,
75., Bs., 9s. cwt.
PACKED DRY, in Bags, each lcwt., 145., 165.,
18s. cwt.
IT SAVES 25 PER CENT. IN FUEL,
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
Estimates given for Covering Boilers & Steam Pipes.
ASTHMACURE
ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
RTTES. Swd inj all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MAM MATT’S
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
m.<
vbHP*
WOLF
OT
AX
C.A.Q
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at
“ THE BLOCH,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD. •
SYDNEY
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool send to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
* 8*
limt
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES-’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., «<,,
60 CLARENCE ST-, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Be van and Edwards Pkopy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Bsiawrasnssiissiii
ll w^SSSsk
«1
aßoaoßaßßnßacaQflOoangoaogaaa
mm
sdf
RANGES
STOVES
Manufacturers in IS: .S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 Georye St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
A NOVEL PRE
df
or M.O. for SI- we will
address in Australia one
9ct, COL D-F I LLED
PPB _ BROOCHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Bell, Heart, Anchor or Gross
Pendant, guaranteed the same, quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In 15ct. G.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Gold
Wire King, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
AN receipt of P.O 0.
u forward to any
of our HANDSOME
a rt n it n WIRE
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
S3TI33XraES'32r.
=
_
d
d
TINTARA
WINES. .
Melbourne, and Adelaide.
‘LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about lSlbs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE ACENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRiERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
d
263 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
Coffins St., Melbourne.
•AG-EUTS POE-
Card Concentrator. Sperry Slimer. Rapid-Economy Stamp Mill.
Slugger and Little Giant Rock Drills.
Rand Air Compressors. Pulsometer Company’s English Pumps of All Kinds.
Lister Motors and Dynamos. Electrical Machinery.
J \:‘A J; Panklast Dry Crusher.
Rackarock. Rendrock.
s Pat. Hot Air
Cam Brand Forged Steel Shoes and Dies.
Nevermiss Fuse. Electric Fuses. Batteries.
“Guthridge” Gold Saving Canvas. Abbott Water Filter.
