

A.:e/S "WHISKY
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
R. G. WAtKINTS SC. CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
„• ..
GRAND PRIX PARIS, 1900
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD).
IHOBA.HT.
——
(adley’s Orient fjoiel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Sob, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
working machinery.
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, DEAL AND FLITCH FRAMES, LOG FRAMES, PLANING AND MOULDING MACHINES,
BORING MACHINES, TENONING MACHINES &c.
For Particulars apply to Sole Agents— Gibson, Battle & Co., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ĥ
ħ
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
PincAppk Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
h
SAFES
doors
LOCKS
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wale® Branchs
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Sooieiy) ' W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts andOanvassera Wanted. ;
u deft
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
mj
TEA!
BENSDORFS
ĥ
COCOA
is the Queen of all Cocoas
Fos^
l Aroma, Strength^Puritjc
ASK
FOR
PALE ALE
?3*as
" i
Mmm .
- -
■, \w ? f
I •:.
I - - rJO&-
66
FERRIER/S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Wl] l more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong;, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
i_ig-a on m
4-ltQ RF.QT gT W;l £
The Bulletin
To!. 27.—N0. 1381. j
[Thursday, August 2, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, .Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SPALPBiMG’S ATHLETIC LIBRARY.
A new series of Sports Books by the best exponent of each sport. Eacli book is clearly printed and fully illustrated.
1. Muscle Building', by Dr. Gulick.
2. How to Wrestle, by F. R. Toombs.
3. Jiu Jitsu, by Sfinami and Koyania.
4. Dumb Bells, by G. Kojus.
5. How to Punch the Bag, by Iloth well.
6. Boxing Guide.
Write to us for any Book or you require.
7. Ten Minutes Guide for Busy Men.
8. Haw to Sprint.
9. How to Run 100 Yards.
10. Golf Guide, and How to Play Golf.
11. Lawn Tennis Guide, by Voile.
12. Cricket Guide, by Ranjitsinhji.
We gladly answer inquiries.
Geo. Robertson & Co- Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
ħ
h
the Great
V:C
for Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma,& all affections of
the throat & lungs,*, for prevention of Consumption-
Sold in Tins 1/6 or Post Free on receipt of stamps from the Sole Manufacturer, 0. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
niiopnslanrl SYDNEY DEPOT—S and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
Q 6 ' LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W
THE RED PAGE.
MATTHEW PRIOR
HE caught more than an echo of Hora-
tian charm, and half-a-dozen gene-
rations have found him lovable. He
“had rather be thought a good
English-man, than the best Poet, or greatest
Scholar that ever wrote.” Yet he was Poet
too, in the mode of Queen Anne when verses
and gardens were trimmed rigorously—and
Scholar conning his mellow Augustans —
and sprightly Wit as well, apt in antithesis,
buoyant in fancy, bearing a sound digestion
to his books and bubbling with the discreet
mirth of a philosopher.
And still we owe him more than we ac-
knowledge. Odd proverbial lines like Henry’s
persuading his Nut-brown Maid not to
follow him to the inconvenient woods;
No longer shall the Boddice, aptly lac'd,
From thy full Bosome to thy slender waste.
That Air and Harmony of Shape express,
Fine by Degrees and beautifully less . ..
“ Nor shall thy lower Garments,” continues
Henry—giving us possibly a first usage of
that decorous phrase—
Nor shall thy lower Garments artful Pleat,
From thy fair Side dependent to thy Feet.
And did not Gray’s “ Elegy ” gain a hint of
form from “ an Ode to Mr. Howard ” :
Dear Howard, from the soft assaults of Love,
Poets and Painters never are Secure :
Gan I untouch’d the Fair ones Passions move ?
Or thou draw Beauty , and not feel it's Pow’r ?
And Peacock’s solid shape may have taken
pattern here and there from lines like
On his Death-Bed poor Lubin lies...
And Austin Dobson pays surely a debt in
attitude and temper ; and so on.
js*
Yes ; Prior may be a lifelong companion.
And there is so much of him, penned in his
trouble or in his peace. Cambridge Uni-
versity’s new edition, with a scholarly text
by A. R. Waller (4s. 6d. net and most
desirable) has 339 pages of lines each filed
and polished as few men polish now. It is a
poetry of thought and epithet, a poetry of
conceits and careful numbers, with the stuff
in it, the heat through it, that belonged to
hearty eaters and drinkers and exercisers
in an age of strong ale and sound claret. By his
whole and not by parts that Prior must be
judged: he flies on level wing through a
thousand verses with not one that is lyric.
Yet we venture this compact little example ;
A DUTCH PROVERB.
Fite, Water, Wornan, are Man's Ruin;
Says wise Professor VANDER BRUIN.
By Flames a House, I hir'd was lost
Last Year; and I must pay the Cost.
This Spring the Rains o'erflow’d my Ground :
And my best Flanders Mare was drown'd.
A Slave I am to CLARA'S Eyes :
The Gipsey knows her Pow'r, and flies.
Fire, Water, Woman, are my Ruin ;
And great Thy Wisdom, VANDER BRUIN.
And Prior’s taste, his skill, his bel air as a
writer, possibly cannot be better exhibited
than in this of several answers to his com-
plaining mistress :
A BETTER ANSWER.
I.
DEAR Cloe, how blubber'd is that pretty Facet
Thy Cheek all on Fire, and Thy Hair all uncurl d:
Pr'ythec quit this Caprice ; and (as old FALSTAF
says)
Let Us e'en talk a little like Folks of This World.
11.
How can'it Thou presume, Thou hast leave to
destroy
The Beauties, which VENUS but lent to Thy
keeping ?
Those Looks were design’d to inspire Love and Joy :
More ord’nary Eyes may serve People for weeping.
111.
To be vext at a Trifle or two that I writ,
Your Judgment at once, and my Passion You
wrong:
You take that for Fact, ivhich will scarce be found
Wit:
Od’s Life! must One swear to the Truth of a Song ?
IV)
What I speak, my Fair-CLOE, and what I write,
shews
The Diff renge there is betwixt Nature and Art:
I court others in Verse ; but I love Thee in Prose :
And They have my Whimsies ; but Thou hast my
Heart.
V.
The God of us Verse-men (You know Child) the
SUN,
How after his Journeys He sets up his Rest :
If at Morning o’er Earth ’tis his Fancy to run ;
At Night he reclines on his THETIS’S Breast.
VI.
So when lam weary'd with wand'ring all Day ;
To Thee, my Delight, in the Evening I come:
No Matter vjhat Beauties I saw in my Way:
They were but my Visits ; but Thou art my Home.
VII.
Then finish, Dear CLOE, this Pastoral War;
And let us like HORACE and LYDIA agree ;
For Thou art a Girt as much brighter than Her,
As He was a Poet sublhner than Me.
■fit
Here, then, is a suggestion and no more of
a true English classic, an author whom every-
one who loves good wit, good sense, and good
humour should have conned and should
prize.
HOME ROOKS
JAMES BARBOUR, whose Pencillings on
the Wallaby are published at Ballarat
(Barry, Anderson; Is.) is an all-round-the-
bush rhymer who (with 20 per cent, im-
provement) would be a Lawson :
But then (with 20 per cent, added) he might be a
tolerable Ogilvie :
And were he another 20 per cent, better he
would make a Paterson :
The “little less” puts James Barbour in a
rhyming world away. Still he has observed, he
has felt, and he exhibits touches of humour: often
his lines are pungent; and the Bush .will find him
a good shillingsworth. If he writes doggerel, it
is graphic and sympathetic. Here is a picture of
the hut “ where swagmen crawl to die ” :
“ The Swagman’s Burial ” is not a had parody,
and there are other things not bad—including the
preface:
The author of this volume is an Australian by birth
and training. All the bush verses, resonant of the sounds
of busy station life, are written from actual experience.
The author has shorn pen-mates with the redoubtable
ringer “ Mulga Joe.” Has lain awake on sultry summer
nights’neath the stately red gums, listening to the low,
rhythmical murmurings of the river as it flowed majesti-
cally onward in its irresistible march to old Mother Ocean.
Studied the swag-man in his native haunfs, where the
footfalls of a rabbit sounded like the ghostly tread of a
departed bush man revisiting the scenes of his former ex-
ploits. Has felt the mysterious influence of the bush in.
solitary wilds, where the dingoes’ melancholy howls
seemed the despairing wails of a lost spirit, eternally
damned. Worked in the cornfields alongside the so-called
bone and sinew of the country, and arrived at the con-
clusion that the up-to-date Australian cocky is a living
representative of Legree, the American slave-driver-
mean as the parasite that lives on a flea. Clinked glasses
with the verdant Jaclceroo, and found him a brainless up-
start, 22 calibre, smooth bore.
Well, we wish him luck.
Poems, by Jas. W. Harbinson (Melb., Atlas
Press), is a book to madden rivals. Here is a poet
who prints his rhymes upon enamelled paper, in
three inks, with his crest of an owl atop (“ Je
pense a toi”) and an Irish harp at bottom,
while shamrocks cluster greenly around. This
ostentatious prosperity casts grave initial doubt
upon the validity of Dr. Harbinson’s poetic
license. His use of that license is strictly per-
sonal. Love, it appears, is still the sowl of a
bould Irishman, and still he expresses it in song.
Dr. Harbinson’s verse is sadly or enthusiastically
amatory. In 1895 the fairest of moonbeams takes
“ To 5.,” his darling, a message that he is keeping
a lonely vigil for her. In 1995 his “Chanson
d’Amour” “To D.” declares that his spirit is
stealing within her soul. A world of longing lies
between, and what really looks like a universe of
ladies. “ The Waltz ”is addressed “To a Num-
of Fairies,” and certain “Shattered Thoughts”
refer “To Many Fair Charmers.” Dr. Harbinson
embraces them all valiantly as far as his verse
will go. He is plainly such a good’fellow, gay-
hearted, that one desires only that this paragraph
shall fall with an odour of incense in the wake of
the multifarious petticoats who lead his romantic
Muse.
Congratulation to H. K. Bloxham, author of
On the Fringe of the Never-Never, which is the
kind of-Australian fiction we have been wanting
for a long time—not clever or remarkable litera-
ture, hut a good, homely, honest Australian yarn
which the Bush will enjoy thoroughly. The
scene and people belong to western N.S. Wales
of thirty years ago : there are for topics a race
for disputed cattle-land, a fight with blacks, a
bushranging encounter, and the deeds of several
loving couples : and the story moves along
naturally, without effort or pretension. The
book jr made in Sydney, and is published by
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. in neat cloth at half-a-
crown.
Red Harry, by Henry Fletcher (Syd., Sunday
Times Co. ; Is.) is a series of sketches based on
N.S.W. farming life, and not without vernacular
virtue. The hero is a bush swindler and thief,
who remains on the safe side of gaol ; and the story
of his knaveries, written with sardonic detail and
published without a hint of condemnation, throws
light on the no-morals of some sections of some
bush communities. As a handbook of rascality
this might be circulated by N.S.W. Immigration
Dept, in warning to new-chums.
If Mulga Joe was rich and great ,
And undefiled by graft.
He’d win some lady’s shrivelled heart
And dine with squatters aft.
Let's hope that where the runs are wide,
Beyond the Overflow,
Where worth is counted more than wealth,
There’s room for Mulga Joe.
They 're mustering ten thousand strong,
I hear the stockwhips crack ;
The boss has signalled to the dogs
To head the leaders back.
White roof-tops in the distance gleam,
The scented breezes sigh, ,
Above the murm’ring of the stream.
Good-bye, sweetheart, good-bye !
There was Tinker Bob, a sinful soul, he escaped the police
somehow,
The greatest swiper that ever lived, .with a thirst like a
Mallee cow;
And Never-Sweat-Joe, from the Wakool Springs, a place
where it seldom rains.
Who fought three rounds with a noted ghost, alone on the
Old Man Plains.
It stands apart from other huts, among some lightwood
trees,
A low-roofed, unwashed tenement, that creaks to ev’ry
breeze;
It leans towards the rising sun, one end has tumbled in ;
A breeding-place for rats and mice ; a home of filth and
sin...
O’er blasted hopes, and wasted lives, the cheques so foolish
spent,
Of friends that mocked their hell-born thirst when left
without a cent.
Of aimless ramblings through the bush, lone camps by
still lagoons.
Where the pelicans go fishing on summer afternoons...
Above the door might well be writ the woes of all the race
That have no settled home on earth, but flit from place to
place.
Like seabirds, always on the wing, ’neath ever changing
skies,
With retribution at his heels, the doomed ivretch onward
hies. j
The squatter in his mansion grand, at ease with well
lined purse,
Looks on it with a lofty scorn, and greets it with a curse.
The collie dogs and station curs oft bark as they pass by
At reptiles basking on the roof where swagmen crawl to
die.
Gathered salt with the hardy selector
Oil the shores of an inland sea ;
Played two-up with a toffy inspector,
And dossed at the foot of a tree.
FOREIGN ROOKS
E. Grant Richards, who is a publishing firm
risen on the ruins of Grant of that ilk (and is in-
deed Mrs. G. reinforced by the wisdom of an
Icarus-husband aiming at high flights with new
wings or mended) naturally has at command those
dainty devices by which the precedent firm gained
credit (and ai! for the cash). We notice an indig-
nant author named Lucas complaining of a certain
monotony in the devices.- But there— if publishers
were to listen to the complaints of the irritable
brood ! Anyway, here is “The Chap-Book
Series,” published at 3s. 6 d. each net, printed
boldly in duodecimo, bound in parch-
ment, and titivated with leather ties—pretty
little gift-books or keep-books for odd hours.
And here are Lyrists of the Restoration and
Essays Moral arid Polite in “The Chap-Book <
Series.” The first is another anthology made by
that John Masefield who had the sense to praise
Brady’s sailor-ballads, and by Constance his wife.
They give a critical preface and a biographical
index, and we -meet old friends under
favourable auspices and make a new acquaint-
ance or two. The second is an anthology of
essays chosen by the same heads and repre-
senting almost the same epoch—Evelyn, Collier,
Cowley, Dryden, L’Estrange,-Shaftesbury, Addi-
son, Steele and Berkeley. Juxtaposition of the two
little volumes brings the reflection that an age of
stiff poetry was an age of easy prose; and we
would n’t quarrel with one saying that the prose
was the sounder contribution to literature—that
all poetry but the best had better be prose and
make no rhymes about it. Though to this dogma
there are so many favourite exceptions that it
could not be urged on very serious days : on
sportive days’t is well enough.
Another attractive series is Hutchinson’s Pocket
Classics, in cloth at lOd. net. The volumes are
finished with a. neatness sometimes to seek
in cheap editions, and the list of forth-
coming numbers holds novelty. To hand is
Waterton’s naturalist’s Wanderings in South
America, a book still as quaint as when Sydney
Smith made easy guineas out of it for The Edin-
burgh. None of the travellers in Kerr’s or Pinker-
ton’s collection is quite like Waterton, whose
blood held something more than commonly
adventurous. No vampire-hat, indeed, would
bite his toe, as he relates with the unaffected
regret of one who has lost time and illusions in
dangling a foot over the hammock.
G. M. Trevelyan’s book on The Poetry and
Philosophy of George Meredith (Lond., Constable;
3s. 6d. net) is worth having, though less perhaps
for what it says than for what it.suggests. Cer-
tainly the writer has things to say that arb worth
tl)e saying, and his criticism is not abashed by
the glory he attributes to his subject : yet he
seems to a distant reader too close to his subject,
and his commentary too smooth and indefinite.
Often he touches the matter, but not often
pointedly or incisively. He is stronger in ad-
measurement of spiritual features than of intel-
lectual : he interprets the message better than
the form. Having brooded his theme deeply, he
is earnestly useful.
Smith, Elder & Co. published last year a “fifth
edition” (a second, apparently, in better nomen-
clature) of Sidney Lee’s Life of William Shakes-
peare. This excellent summary of fact and con-
jecture regarding S. brings into popular ken the
antiquarian labours of Halliwell-PbilHpps and
others, and is a storehouse indispensable to
students. The new edn. corrects “ a few errors
that figured in earlier impressions ” and supplies
additional information to the extent of 14 pages;
yet is so substantially the same that the index
remains almost unaltered. The agreeable style
of the book is retained, and an example of con-
temporary handwriting in a “first folio” is
added to the illustrations.
The Langham Series of Art Monographs, edited
by Selwyn Brinton and published by A. Siegle
(Loud., Is. (i d. net) is attaining respectable pro-
portions, with still many volumes to overtake.
The value of these little hooks lies in the exact
adequacy of the letterpress to the form, and in
the judgment with which the embellishing illus
trations .-Sre chosen. The editor’s own notice of
The Eighteenth Century in English Caricature,
with suggestive examples of the work of Hogarth,
Bunhiiry, Gillray, and Rowlandson, is an instance
of the praised union of knowledge with accu-
rate taste. Other vols. deal with the artistic
content of cities, as Rome, or the artistic out-
pouring of men, as Goya—for whom one is
especially grateful.
The Briton in France and The Briton in Italy
(Lond., Siegle, Hill & Co. ; Is.) seem to be very
nearly the ideal handbooks for tourists—cheap,
full, and coinpact.
One has to conquer a certain antipathy to Mrs.
Humphry Ward —due to a personal preference for
people and books that give themselves spontane-
ously, recklessly, with a rush—a preference for
Youth, in fact. When it is admitted that Mrs.
W. is not a torrent, hut a lake, then...one begins
to cavil at the size of the lake, and to notice that
the hills around it are scarcely to be called,
mountains. We may grant the elevation above
humanity’s sea-level, and grant that lakes in
general have a calm elderly virtue which is the
next-best thing to the hasty vice of joy ; but they
must be sizeable, significant, or inevitably praised
to extinction as “pretty’’and “nice.” And all
this is unfair, an argument rather to the extra-
vagant eulogists of Mrs. Ward than to herself
and Fenwick's Career. That is a novel prim and
cold, though clever, though readable: it leaves a
memory of character well studied, a task well done.
It is so punctiliously natural that it yields
an impression of artifice; so conscientiously
correct that it makes one indefinitely uneasy.
Always there is a sense of strain, as if the last
straw were being laid continually upon the hack
of a virtuous camel whose grieved expression told
you he could bear even that. No, one cannot con-
quer a certain antipathy.
A MIRROR UP
William Redmond, M.P., writes Through the
New Common wealth (Dublin ; Sealv, Bryers and
Walker; 3s. Ikl. ). This is his second book to
describe impressions of an Australian visit: his
first, A Shooting Trip in the Australian Bush, was
issued by the same publishers in 1898. The new
account, dedicated to Cardinal Moran, is more
middle-aged and substantial. Redmond runs over
his impressions without a trace of Irish rhetoric.
His matter is fact—with especial reference to
what men of his own race and religion have done
and are doing, and with an appendix of speeches
by Mr. Deakin and Mr. Higgins during last year’s
debate on Home Rule in the House of Repre-
sentatives. Redmond’s observations are usually
just, arid his book will give stay-at-home Irish-
men a fair idea of the colour and character of
Australian life.
He tells his countrymen that ‘‘it is no slight to
Australia to advise Irish people not to go there.
It is a great country with a great future before it,
and population is wanted badly ; but, at the same
time, I am certain that the average Irishman will
he much better and happier at home.” Mr. Red-
mond returns to this view'with such persistence
that, in serving the perfectly legitimate policy of
stopping the stream of Irish emigration, he be-
littles Australia unduly. What he says is true
in a degree, yet only in its degree : probably
for the reason that he has seen us with Irish
eyes, and not with Irish-Australian.
Some fragments:
I was really astonished to find the number of people I
met with Irish names, It is a long way from Ireland to
the Never Never Land, hut many of bur race have homes
there, and you will meet lots of little Pats and Micks and
Marys and Bridgets, who will listen to you eagerly with
little sun-tanned faces upturned as you tell of the island
where the grass is always green and where there are
plenty of rivers and not a snake in the world...
It is sometimes said that the Australians lack the
quality of veneration, but I think they are as ready as
most people to venerate worth. You cannot get them to
venerate sham or to fall down and worship wealth. Those
who are accustomed in England to much servility from
people who are poor may be disappointed at not receiv-
ing it out here, arid perhaps they come to the erroneous
conclusion that the people are rude. They are not, how-
ever, in the least degree rude, they are just independent
in manner. As a matter of fact, I consider that the Aus-
tralians are amongst the most polite people in the world,
and a lady asking her way about will get as much civility
and attention as she would in Dublin, and that is saying
a good deal...
As for work, however, I will say without any hesita-
tion that as far as my observation goes the Australian
man is very hard to beat... Intellectually there is no
doubt that the Australian is ahead of many of the Euro-
pean peoples...
What about the women ? There is no doubt that the
Australian woman stands very near the top of the list of
the women of the world. She is ornamental and useful
and very much indeed of both. In point of looks the
Australian girl can safely be said to be without many
rivals. . .
Personally I believe it would be a good thing for this
new Commonwealth, if it could attract to its shores a
greater number - 'of French and Germah and other
European people. A blend of races has helped to make
America great, and it would probably have an equally
good effect here...
J*
The real reason why Australia makes Blow progress in
the matter of population is that some Australians them-
selves unfortunately do not give the country a good
name. Wild talk of Communism and Socialism and of all
the terrible things to be expected from the power of
Labour in politics is indulged in, and the-result is that
people get the impression abroad that Australia is a land
to keep clear of. I have often heard Australians
in the smoking-rooms of ocean steamers and in railway
carriages and hotels talking in the most dismal way
of Australia’s future, and declaring that soon those
men who could afford to do so would leave the
country, as the Labour party were so terrible'and ruining
everything. 1 remember one evening hearing on a
steamer talk of this kind, and an American gentleman
who vyas sitting hear me said, “ I don’t understand these
Australians, they seem to lose no chance of disparaging
the prospects of their country. I don’t share their fears
or believe their gloomy forebodings, but even if it were
all true they should not say it. In America when Wrings
are not good, we boom the country up more than ever.
If a man does not praise his own land how can he expect
others to do so ? ” And I agreed with this gentleman’s
remarks.
We all agree; but unfortunately .the other
gentlemen keep on reiterating their remarks.
& JX
C. H. Hill writes Australia's Aspirations
(Lond., Spottiswoode ; Is.) giving impressions of
a short tour. Necessarily his account is partial,
and often his statements, true in themselves, are
not true in proportion, true in relations. Still, he
has accomplished his little book with open eyes and
without prejudice, and Englishmen who read it
will make a step toward better understanding of
this, country.
4. —_ •
“The most difficult thing in literature is the
handling of the first person singular. The
journalistic plural, commonly supposed to he
pompous assumption, is in reality for most writers
a necessary and convenient method of escape from
the pitfalls of the singular—a modest shelter from
personal publicity. We see by daily examples
how the change from the plural to the singular
leads to antics and vanities, and finally to
exhaustion and boredom. And yet the first
person is essential to the literary artist.”
W.T. : The Gordon lines have only a value of curiosity,
and have been several times published already... A.M. :
Those lines are by P. E. puinn—the most political
member of a family of Muse-worshippers—and run more
correctly :
But Death was stronger and tore her away,
Before I had more than kissed her mouth—
In the place you think I aih going to-day
Shall I meet her and quench my soul’s long-drouth '!
They are two of ten stanzas in “ After the Viaticum,”
printed in Bulletin a good many years ago.. .'Belated
ballads received from Mars and li.B. —the latter good in
bad form.
A.G.S.
/ think God mated us from the first,
When Ilis fiat through virgin space was h urled
Ere the first fish swam, or the first grain hurst
From the uncouth breast of the steaming world.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
4/so KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY,
MICK SIMMONS.
The Leading Sports Depot.
L F
GOLF.
(Postage on one Golf Iron, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Inter-State.)
Drivers and Brassies cannot be Posted (too long).
Auchterlonie’s International Clubs
s. d.
Bulger Drivers 6 b
Oleeks, Mid Irons 6 9
Driving Irons, Mashies 6 9
Bulger Brassies 7 6
Straight or Bent Neck Patent Putters 8 0
“8.C.1.” Celebrated Clubs.
“ 8.G.1.” “ FAIRFIELD ” Drivers and Brassies .. ..4 6
“8.G.1.” “FAIRFIELD” Oleeks, Jiggers, Mashies, Mid
Irons, Putters 4 6
'8.G.1.” Drivers and Brassies 8 0
‘8.G.1." Irons (all styles) 5 0
Spalding’s Golf Clubs.
MORRISTOWN,” Oleeks, Mid Irons, Mashies, Putters,
Niblicks 4 6
‘MORRISTOWN,” Drivers and Brassies 4 6
‘CRESCENT," Oleeks, Putting Cleeks, Mid Irons, Loiters,
Drivers 69
GOLF BALLS.
Mick
Simmons
s. d.
“ BRAMBLE" Floater* .. .. 8 0 doz.
HENLEY’S “ Ooobo " .. .. 10 0 „
HENLEY’S “Melford" .. .. 15 0 „
a. d.
“Silvertown ’’ 15 6 doz.
“ Haskell ” (American) .. .. 30 0 „
Wizard ” 30 0 „
"Springvale" “Eagle” .. .. 30 0 „
(Postage on 1 dozen, 9d. N.S.W., Is. 2d. Interstate).
CADDY BAGS .
Postage on Bag, N.S. W. 9d., Interstate Is. 2d.
Oaddy Bags, Canvas, outside Pocket, leather bottom and sling ..
Brown Waterproof Canvas, outside pocket, leather bottom and sling ..
Same as above, better quality
Same as No. 2, superior quality
Same as No. 2, extra special quality
Solid Hide Caddy Bags, best quality, outside pocket
Same as above, extra quality
s. d.
4 0 each,
6 0 „
8 0 „
7 6 „
10 6 „
15 0 „
25 0 „
Young: America Revolvers, 22 R.F.,
7 chambered, double action, nickel,
2in. barrel, B}oz., 10s 6d (Postage 6d)
Young: America Revolvers, 32 0.F.,
safety hammer, 5 chambered, 2in.
barrel, BJoz., nickel, 10s 6d. (Post-
age 6d)
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 3200. F.,
nickel or blued, automatic ejector,
Slin. barrel, vulcanite stock, 18£oz.
(Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s 0d
8. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 C.F., same as above, 3Jm.
barrel, 18oz. (Post. 9d. N.S.W.; Is. 2d. Inter-State),
16s 6d , -
Hopkins’ “ Forehand " S.& W. Pattern Automaticßevol-
vers, 32 caL 0.F., Sin. barrel, weight lib., a limited
quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-State), 17s od
Li—
Young 1
America.
LAWN TENNIS .
ĥ
Manmca*
5/-
STANbARt
7/3
d/Z
J.OOSV
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; is 2d inter-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade,
F. H. AYRES' RACQUETS.
Child’s .. Ss 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
San down .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strang .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshaw .. .. 13s 0d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25g
“ E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIB BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, eov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MIOK SIMMONS
The Great
Monte Carlo
Came.
Perfection of
Mechanical
Ingenuity.
Finest Quality Gun
Metal Case,
Superior Move-
ments (tested by
expert). Price—
10/6
POST
FREE.
Only a limited
quantity on hand.
Next shipment due
in about 6 weeks.
MICK SIMMONB’ BPORTINQ QOODB
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S. W.; is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “O.B.B." Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 108 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set: 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
\ \i \ \ \
,/
7T
L
PUNCHINq
BALLS.
Swinging Ball, com-
plete, with best
quality Red Rub-
ber Bladder—7s 6d,
Us 6d, 15s, 18s, 20s,
21s, 265, 27s 6d.
As diagram, with
double rubber fit-
tings, complete—
15s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s
6d, 21s, 255.
Rubber Cord for fix-
ing ball, 28 yd.
Solid Tubular Rub-
ber (best), 2/6 ft.
Punching Ball
Swivels—ls 6d, 2s,
2s 6d, 3s fid each
ħ
The "Bullseye" Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
Illustrated Fishing: Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Celebrated
“MAINE”
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Hear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2Jlb. 8
"TNI MAINE “
Mte
Apart.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER.
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
h
MICK SIMMONS*
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 231 b
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
13s 6d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
eights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2}lb.
Postage: N.S.W., Is 8d ; Inter-State, 252 d..
18s Od
Model > 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3ilb.
N.s. W., is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d
Postage—
16s Od
Postage—2s 6d N.S.W. ;
4s 8d Inter-State.
4*
SI
ff
Z-
-*-s*
lx
ks.
-r^
Harrington & Richardson's 5.8.8. L Gun,
12-KUU£e, top action, automatic self-ejectinfr de-
carbonised steel barrel 30m., solid case hardened
breech, rebounding- locks, pistol
grip, walnut stobk, weight
about 6Jlb.
£1 78 6d
MICK
BIMMONB
ĥ
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
£3
ħ
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt Siemen'a
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b. ’
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
h
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
D. 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
‘chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; Ss 2d Inter-State.
ĥ
Mick Simmons
HOLLIB & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib’
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engravec
2}in, cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, anc
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for'
absolutely the
£l2 12s
A.MMXT3\riTl03XT,
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Coods Freight.
Pea Rltlo Cartridges.
2g™? No l 6d, 0d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
bHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
» 22 Short
»> 22 Long
» 22 Long Rifle .
» 22 Extra Long.
$lOO
Is Od
Is Id
Is 3d
Is 6d
2s Od
$lOOO
9s
10s
12s
13s
18s
ggggg;
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.^|g
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


TRIUMPHANT PROOF
STRIKING
are the medical possibilities disclosed by Science. The mysterious, agonising, “ incurable diseases of yesterday are to-day
treated and cured effectively and speedily. Students of Electro-Physiology declare that those ailments (such as INDIGESTION,
LIVER COMPLAINTS, NEURALGIA, GOUT, GENERAL DEBILITY SCIATICA, RUPIURES PARALYSIS
KIDNEY DISORDERS. ATROPHY, MENTAL IMPAIRMENT, WEAKNESS, and FUNCTIONAL DISORDERS which
may be traced to EXHAUSTION OF NERVE POWER, and to the diminished energy of the vital functions, consequent
upon this exhaustion) are specially amenable to cure by Electricity. As a curative agent it is fast becoming most beneficial, established upon a sound scientific basis.
It is especially effective in the cure of NERVOUS DISORDERS, in the dissipation of pain and the enticement of sleep. There is no questioning the certain quality
of its power.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE ELECTRIC APPLIANCE
is a curative agent, applied externally, exerting a powerful influence npon the whole system. This wonderful instrument, similar to those used by European scientists,
gives instantaneous relief in eases of acute pains in nerves, muscles and kidneys, and never fails to relieve the most insistent cases. When applied asdixectea, 1
influence is felt in a speedy and sure return to Health and Happiness. Read the testimony published below from THE HON. DANIEL O CONNOR, . ~
ex-Postmaster-General of New South Wales, and one of the best-known members associated with the commercial and political history of N.S. V ales.
POSTMASTER-GENERAL, LATE SIR HENRY PARKES’ MINISTRY,
■ ■■
1 m
* f .
v'i? ; ‘ <#••••
ijp®
i-
THE HON. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.
Mr. O’CONNOR’S TESTIMONY.
Parliament House, Macquarie-street, Sydney, January 28, 1903 .
«/ have tried a course of your Electro-Medical treatment. It has benefited me very much. For some years I
was troubled with severe pains in the back and kidneys—the legacy of an attack of lumbago—which has now
altogether, / am happy to say, left me. “(Signed) DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P."
READ TH/S —
For the good that it has done during a long term of ill-health, MR. P. R. LARKIN,
J.P., a prominent Sydney commercial resident, writes to the Physician-in-Chief of the
Institute in the following grateful terms :
Dear Sir, —The Electro=Medical Treatment I received from you six
months ago, I have adopted consistent with your instructions. / am
pleased to say I have found much benefit from it. lam satisfied it
gives vigor to the system and improves the general health.
(Signed) P. R. LARKIN, J.P.
AND THIS
Inspector F. FOWLER, an highly-esteemed officer of the New South Wale« Police
Force, who consulted us some months since, chronicles his improvement to us in a recent
letter. Here is an extract: —
Since adopting your Electro-Medical treatment my health has im-
proved, and the trouble I was suffering from I hardly ever feel. As you
are aware, / was so much benefited by the use of your treatment, I re-
commended my friends to try it.
(Signed ) F. FOWLER.
THE SPECIALISTS OF THE FREEMAN & WALLACE INSTITUTE
HAVE CURED THOUBANDS OF CASEB LIKE THE ABOVE. There is nothing gained in employing an unpractical person to do an expert’s work. Nine times in ten FAILURE follows. The average
physician is oftentimes an amateur in. the treatment of Grave Nerve Diseases. His time is so fully occupied in treating a full assortment of human ills that he cannot devote special study to any particular branch of
practice. Some diseases are sufficiently simple as to require only the general knowledge obtained in colleges and general practice.
THE MORE COMPLEX AND PERPLEXING DISORDERS
are not always favored by the family doctor, as many sufferers may have discovered. He prefers to be relieved of tasks which call for special knowledge and special skill. The true
SPECIALIST is a physician who is absolutely expert in the treatment of a few diseases. He knows all about the complaints he treats, and he supervises difficult cases with the same certainty
with which the general practitioner treats a common ailment. _ .
For over 25 years the Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Institute have been successfully treating serious diseases. They began their special work after thorough
training in some of the best-known colleges abroad. They have cured more men of their troubles than any association of physicians in Australia. You can consult them feeling certain that
they know just what to do, and, if your case be curable, they will cure you. If they consider they cannot cure you, they will not undertake the treatment oi your case.
PT REMEMBER ! ADVICE IS AIRWAYS FREE.
M€N AMP WOM€N!
If you are ill, try this new system, which is endorsed by the scientific world and praised by
thousands of rescued people.
The Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical Treatment
\yill cure you. They will send you, Post Free, a special brochure of Testimonies, illustrated, showing you what this grand
method has done for'others. IT STANDS TO REASON, if it has cured them, it will cure you. If you cannot call, write
to them. They reply to all letters punctually and privately.
Their 700-pasre Medical Health Guide, “ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,” 150 Medical Plates, explains thoroughly
the cure of Nerve Diseases by Electro-Medical Methods. Send for it. POST FREE TO SUFFERERS.
And at MELBOURNE.
REMEMBER : The Physician-in-Chief to the Institute is registered by AUSTRALIAN, ENGLISH, and
AMERICAN BOARDS. He is a qualified Specialist of great European reputation.
IMPORTANT.—Our dispute with, the Federal Postal authori-
ties having been amicably settled, Patients may direct
their letters to the above address without fear of delay.
Howard Freeman, Director and Principal of the Institutes.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Ohieh
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
Dr. Frederick Bell. Lecturer.
A Freeman (&2j Wallace
Elertric Battery for
Home Treatment,
Price: From £1 upwards.


Not every
WOW a H
can afford
to have
a maid.
Not many ‘
wouldj
want one
around, any-
way. But you'
certainly can'
afford to have
Ayer’B Hair Vigor;
and most women would
be greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much
to have long, rich, heavy
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
the deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
ħ
ziifer’s
flair Vigor
'ill certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by ftr, J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A,
For Sunburn
or Sore Byes
quick relief can be
obtained by the appliea.
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as outs, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.. Manchester
England.
Strength
ill ♦♦♦ for MEN
r ' i '>c women
ll O CHILDREN
Emulsion babies
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
for the THROAT
CHEST
LUNGS
BONES
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
after ILLNESS
HEAVY COLDS
OVERWORK
FEVERS
Strength in
SCOTT'S
Emulsion
during SUCKLING
PREGNANCY
TEETHING
LOSS OF SLEEP
Newton Boyd, Grafton Road, Barney’s
HiH, N.aw., July 21 , I9 0 5 . “Some
little time ago I contracted a very severe
com which left my chest and lungs in a
very-weak state. ■ At last I decided to
§'f Scott’s Emulsion a trial. From the
nrst-dose I obtained relief, and after
continuing the treatment for a time my
com was completely cured.”
Mrs. J. T. Winstant, EY,
cott’s Emulsion is purest Norwegian cod
Ver oil ma de pleasant, digestible and trebly
nutritious by the celebrated original Scott
Process, and skilfully blended with the
onic of lime and soda.
you or yours require
length we will gladly
5* y° u a free trial
bottle by return post
(enclose 4d.for postage
and mention this pa-
per). Scott &Bownr
'hr
»YtyiyiWtW«v*f w»y>vW|^%
iir;,^
-... Ilf
,-'v ;-:e
WfIWMWWWMMWWWM
AmMWMWWWWMfIS
h
ĥ
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
*
s
WALTHAM
WATCHES
mi iVEII Tiic-wua.
“SIIEI ” agricultural
" I WILL MOTOR >
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
The best watches
that can be con-
structed.
All guaranteed.
For sale all over
the world.
AMERICAN WALTHAM
WATCH COMPANY.
Waltham, Mass., U. S. A.
IMPORTANT
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Pure Food Act
JOHN MOIR & SON, Limited, of London,
Aberdeen, and Seville, ABSOLUTELY
GUARANTEE that Only the VERY
FINEST ENGLISH AND SCOTCH Meats
ARE USED in their Specialities which are
prepared under SPECIAL SUPERVISION
in their own Factories.
They specially wish to emphasise that all
their preparations are what they are repre-
sented to be, THE PUREST AND BEST.
Insist on having MCPR’S HERRINGS,
POTTED FISH AND MEAT PASTES,
WORCESTER SAUCE (exceptionally
good), JELLY CRYSTALS, JAMS AND
MARMALADE, SCOTCH OATMEAL in
hermetically sealed tins.
John Moir & Son, Ltd.
London? Aberdeen, & Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUAFUE-ST.
THE “EVER READY”
Electric Pocket Search Light..
ħ
Eyerybody wants the
handy pocket lamp.
It is smokeless, grease-
less, dustless, and non-
explosive . Saves gas
and insurance -bills.
Gives a strong light so
long as v6'u keep your
Take your finger off and the light disappears. It
cannot get out of order: no wires, no oil, no liquid
and no danger from fire. Women or children can
safely use it to search in dark corners of rooms. It can
be used in bath-room, sick room, cellar, closet or office,
it will last indefinitely with ordinary usage.
AMUSING! NOVEL! USEFUL!
Made to Fit the Pocket. Light and Easy to Carry.
Gives a Good Strong Light.
SIZE—3£ inches long. 2% inches wide, and 1 inch thick.
IMITATION MOROCCO CASE.
It lights up a considerable area. Turn it on a spoony
couple in the dark and see all the fun.
Did you ever drop anything on a dark windy night,
and the match wouldn't light? The wind can't blow
out the SEARCH LIGHT.
Did you ever go into the house and knock the
skin off your shins in' the dark looking for a match ?
Get a SEARCH LIGHT. -
If you've been out with your friends-'at night, you
never miss the key-hole if you carry a Search Light.
Judge for yourselves how useful such a light is.
You can only get the “EVER READY" from us.
With Incandescent Bulb 5/- carriage paid. •
■With Lens, giving three times the light 7/6 callage paid.
THE AGENTS AND MAIL DEALERS
CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY.
359 COLLINS STREET, ..MELBOURNE-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Clarence River (N.S.W.) sculler Mitchell,
who recently defeated late champion Harry
Searle’s brother John, has been matched to row
Fogwell, of the Richmond River, for £lOO a side.
The race, which is to eventuate at Coraki (Rich-
mond River) on 12th September, carries with it
the championship of the North Coast. The match
has aroused considerable interest locally, and
helps to. accentuate the jealousy existing between
the Clarence and the Richmond. Said jealousy is
a very ancient thing—in fact, the oldest inhabi-
tant knew of its existence’"in his childhood—and
is particularly bitter between the river capitals,
Grafton and Lismore. The jealousy between
Sydney and Melbourne is merely a cir-
cumstance to it. Grafton, being one of
the seats of the Anglican Bishop of Grafton
and Armidale, existed as a city when Lismore
was one house and a punt, and regards the latter
as a mushroom. Lismore boasts of its growth and
prosperity, and refers to Grafton as something
dead. Grafton takes pride in its broad streets,
lined with fine trees, and its beautiful river, and
alludes to Lismore’s unadorned highways with
scorn, and terms the Richmond River a drain.
When the coastal portion of the Roman Catholic
diocese of Armidale was made a separate See,
under the title of the Diocese of Grafton, the
newly-appointed bishop, who had been parish
priest of Lismore, persuaded the church authori-
ties to change the title to Lismore. Then Lismore
reckoned it was as good a city as Grafton, and a
bit better, and it termed itself the “Queen City ”
quite seriously. Grafton “crowed considerably
when John See, its Parliamentary representative,
became Premier of N.S.W. Lismore opines it has
levelled up things political a bit since then, its
Federal member, T. T. Ewing, being Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council, and it looks
forward confidently to the time when he will
become Prime Minister. Grafton had two sittings
of the Circuit Court annually, Lismore having to
send its important cases there for judgment.
Dissatisfied with this, it asked for a Circuit
Court of its own, and pointed out that it could
supply criminals quite as depraved as Grafton’s
worst —in fact, it had done so. It was given one
of Grafton’s sittings, and celebrated the fact that
it could now hear sentence of death recorded
without going to Grafton, by banquetting the
Judge who presided at the first sitting. Each
town in turn now sends its worst cases to the
other for trial. At the last Grafton Circuit
Court a Lismore case, one of keeping a house of
ill-fame, was heard. A Grafton newspaper
accused Lismore of being little short of a modern
Gomorrah, and a Lismore journal retorted by
saying that it was better to be wicked than
penniless and dead. Grafton is now trying to
think of something dreadful to say in reply.
Meanwhile it hopes that Mitchell will defeat
Fogwell.
The recent challenge thrown out by the
liquor trade in Melbourne, defying the Reehabite
party to select a team and test the respective
merits of beer and water in a tug-of-war, recalls a
story of the miners’ sports at Clunes some years
ago. A footrace between teetotallers, temperate
drinkers, hard drinkers, and incurable drunks
was on the programme. Eight competitors started,
and the representative of the Recha'bites won by
a neck. The winner was afterwards publicly con-
gratulated by some shining lights of the cold
water brigade, and he replied: “Don’t mention
it! Don’t mention it! I could have beaten those
coves by a street if I’d only been sober.”
If.
If every girl had coral eves,
And lips of brightest blue ;
If raven, brown, and golden hair
Assumed a greenish hue—
If this should happen, what think you,
Would happen to the poets too?
If every damsel’s shell-like ear
Were moulded like a sconce,
That she might hear the whispers dear
Of many beaux at once—
If this should happen, what, think you.
Would all Creation’s poets do ?
And if those hands so lily-white
Were crimson as the rose,
Would gallants squeeze them just as tight
In poetry and in prose ?
If lily hands were sunset red,
What would the poets do for bread ?
If eyebrows curved the other way,
If sighs like gurgles came ;
If mouths extended to the ear
Would verse be just the same?
I ask the poets for remarks
On this, in numbers like the lark’s.
If like a trumpet were her voice,
Instead of dulcet sweet,
Would she to him sit just as close
On every shaded seat ?
The while she hollered like a storm—
Will love-lorn poets please inform ?
And if her feet were cloven things,
And void of ankle neat;
Would bold men watch her pick her way
Across the muddy street?
Will long-haired bards rise to explain
The scene at crossings in the rain ?
But why pursue the subject far ?
Let speculation rest;
Invention and my mild cigar
Are losing both their zest.
Still—if that revolution came,
Would Mud become the Muse’s name?
N.S.W.
O. H.
Jacky Winter.
In Hyde Park I hear you singing as your kind
sang long ago
On the bush-hills near the city, maybe fifty years
or so.
Little Jacky, far out-voicing all the vulgar
sparrow throng,
What a host of memories follow when you raise
your laugh and song !
Saucy Jacky, pert-eyed Jacky, there were no
harsh sparrows then,
Brought from English field and farmyard, or from
frowsy London den.
But gray Jacky sang at noontide, perched upon a
gum-tree bough,
While I hoed the cabbage garden and dad swore
behind the plough.
Grey-backed Jacky, things have altered since
your feathered father flew
Round the plots on Sydney bush-hills while last
century was new;
Though the hills remain as old time, now no winds
the gray gums stir,
For some city magnate’s mansion stands in
grandeur where they were.
Sharp-eyed Jacky of the city, you bring back
those good old days
When red-head and tom-tit twittered, morn and
noon, their low bush lays,
And the “ silver eyes ” went flying, seeking with
their dainty bills
Ripe fruit in the scattered orchards set amongst
the peaceful hills.
Jacky Winter then we called you—where your
fathers dwelt at ease
There’s a “ boulevard ” with mansions set around
with English trees.
On each lawn a Eatman lingers, and he smokes
his big cigar
Where your kindred shook the heavens laughing
in the days afar.
n.s.w.
HUGH STONE.
Nameless.
I know it is not well to speak
Of her at all;
It makes the blood play hide-and-seek,
And riot in my sun-browned cheek—
And why recall
The longings of those bygone days
With life and light and love ablaze?
I know our share of gifts divine
On earth is small;
Yet accident and not design
Gave me of Life the sweet red wine
And her the gall;
Gave me of rose wreaths not a few,
And gave to her the wreaths of rue.
But he is damned who glories in
A woman’s fall !
And yet I had not sought to win
Her to my will, nor thought of sin
Original.
Had she not stirred the lower deeps
Wherein the lust of Passion sleeps.
And so we will not voice her name
Lest it recall
The memory of that night of shame,
With all the heat of loye aflame.
Yet over till ~ '
There brood the wraiths of nights that were
With love-stars glimmering faint and fair.
VIC.
C. CRAWFORD.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society*
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MOKTEY TO EE3SFD
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
9'n' < Co 7 lbm ed) Pa-Storal and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
eIT+ * De J» entu res, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand UPgr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to _0 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
TTir \ tv m T X :^ enU „ Mana - er an<l Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD Ol< k ICE, 8< PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
t O DEFY COMIFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best, Brands Only of SPIRZTS
&c *
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
,1
5S
►’,OV.
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges of
all calibers are loaded by machinery which
sizes the shells, supplies the exact quantity
of powder, and seats the bullets properly.
By using first-class materials and this
up-to-date system of loading, the reputation
of Winchester Cartridges for accuracy,
reliability and excellence is maintained.
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Ask for them, and insist upon getting them.
THEY SHOOT WHERE YOU HOLD
h
The Ideal Beverage''
for weather extremes. >
Cadbury's
Absolutely Pure
An invaluable food'
drink foryoung-& old.
at all times & seasons.
The Standard of Highest Purit 'f-The Lancet.
A Perfect fooA"-Health.
Cures While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE. <
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6$ Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6$ 4 ©z., 2-3$ 2 ©z., 1-3. <
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A. <
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD, J
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
or Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
■2! ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
WUI Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
rT- a Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blooti
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
tflfEalc WOBVIEII Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
evGcsti uHuillsZßl Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23 6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; IS PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAAIBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
H good Report from Camperdoiun
THE CASE
OF
MR. E. J. SWORDS.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
11l the course of an interview which our repre-
sentative had with Mr. Swords, of No. 150 Mis-
senden-road, Camperdown, that gentleman said :
“Yes, I can tell you all that is of importance in
connection with my illness when I was at Trangie.”
“How long were you residing there ?”
“Three years. It was due to the great heat
and the sed ntary nature of my employment (a
saddler) that knocked me up. When I got up in
the morning I was languid, and did not know how
I should get through the day. I could get little
or no sleep at night. My internal disorders caused
such a bitter taste to come to my mouth that on
arising I often felt inclined to retch, but I couldn’t,
and I was never prepared to sit down and eat a
breakfast, like a man should do. As soon as I sat
to the table and the food came in sight, a sickly
sensation came to my stomach, and I would have
to get up and leave everything untouched ; but
later in the day I was generally more successful in
eating a little—very little, because my appetite
was weak—but it didn’t make any difference, as
my digestion was gone altogether.”
“What were your feelings like when you had
eaten ?”
“Dreadful. I can hardly describe them. My
chest had such a sensation in it that I don’t know
what to say ; I know I felt that if I turned round
quickly it would break in two, and the way I
sometimes had to gasp for breath would have
made you think I was asthmatical. Then I also
suffered from cramps in the stomach, caused, no
doubt, by wind that gathered there from decayed
food, and if I had to go through the same again I
would much rather die. Many a time I actually
sang out with pain, which also used to find its
way down my right side, and almost cripple me.
Heaven knows, I was a martyr.”
“ How long were you ailing like this ? ”
“For fully twelve months, and you had better
believe that during that time I did not continue
suffering for the want of taking physic ; no indeed.
I took a great many bottles of medicines, only, I’m
sorry to say, to find my money had gone for no-
thing, in some instances to be made worse than I
was before. There was one lot of advertised pills
1 took which made me feel that I was going
to die. I felt so ill, and, after them, thank
Heaven, I procured some Clements’ Tonic. Ah \
How I soon wished I had taken that remedy
before. What a year of torture it would have
saved me ; but it is no use regretting. I’m lucky
to have got off like I did, and there is no doubt
that Clements’ Tonic is entitled to all the credit,
for that was the only remedy that could do me
any good. Why, if you could form an idea of the
intensity of the headaches from which I regularly
suffered, you would say that nothing but a miracle
could have cured them; and if that’s so, then
Clements’ Tonic must be a miraculous medicine,
for it cured mine. Besides this, it also put an
end to the giddy turns I used to have. Upon my
word, at one time I could not stoop down without
feeling as if I would surely fall over, and I have
often been sitting on a chair, and expecting to
come a cropper every second, owing to the same
disagreeable sensation. My sight had been very
dim for a good while, my eyes feeling swollen,
and as if they had a scum over them ; my tongue
used to be. white with fur, too; yet Clements’
Tonic set all these defects to rights, even when
all other things had been put aside as useless.”
“ Did Clements’ Tonic cure you thoroughly ?”
“ My cure couldn’t have been more complete,
and I trust my experience may be an object-
lesson to all who require treatment. In any case,
you may publish this narrative in any form you
desire.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDWARD JOHN SWORDS, of No. 150
Missenden-road, Camperdown, in the State of
New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also con-
tains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements —which I give voluntarily without re-
ceiving any payment; and I make this solemn de-
claration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the Provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) EDWARD J. SWORDS.
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown this
fifth day of September, one thousand nine
hundred and four, before me,
E. BARNES, J.P.
CLEMENTS,’ TONIC is a guaranteed cure for loss of appetite, weakness, debility,
poorness of blood and neuralgia. Beware of spurious imitations, and see the wrapper
•s unbroken.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
salt:
The effect of Eno's ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S ’FRUIT SALT/ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
A
\
I
V Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
iFURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There's SECURITY in
Larter’s
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's


' LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
’ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The 1 Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
’LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockportßemedy’
for Couchs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
’LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds,
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis,
’LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 3 r ears’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
,’LINUM CARTHART[CUM PILLS’ of Mountain
I'lax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
' LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Stark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
10T»X
m
SPIRO
Toilet
Powder
SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
kills all odor ok perspiration.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY A PPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falls Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents AMERICAN HYGIENIC
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing- Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland —Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia—P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Street, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
THE BALLET GIRL
ĥ
•s
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free. Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Sena Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your nam°
and we wilt arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
i* the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It wil! cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will glue free srts
to us one copy uf our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC.
Please mention this paper.
w
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
l is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu< stion
. if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
L cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or (lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
Lo any port in'the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £f £2aW
good as new,
Great factory clearance
sale at halfj'actory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan ed In each district. Large profits easily r» ade. "Write at once for *
&ee catalogues and our 'speciai "ffer, using sufficient postage,
Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &0.. ha/ r price*.
MEAD CYCLE GO. Dep‘. <*39
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of (Xzerine fits oease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11-
of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc!
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
XV. PETERMA^N,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ħ
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK BYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI Elve:r fails.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
.!
i
‘tHrmwiU 1 11 Imrmrj
BRAND TOUR
SHEEP
WITH
BSITEMT
SHEEPBRANDINGLIOUID
BLACK*, RED CSL BLUE (In 8-Gallon Cases).
4s. Per Gallon.
1-Gallon Tins,
Od. each.
Kempton, Tasmania, sth September, 1905.
Dear Sirs, —It is preferable to any I have ever used ; the longer it stands on the
sheep, the more plainly it shows. , (Signed) JAMES HADDCCN, Seur,
“ Coorawong,” via Coonamble, N.S.W., 16th May, 1905.
Dear Sirs, —I have been using “Kemp’s Sheep Branding - Liquid” for a number of
years. I find “ Kemp’s ”is the best. I will continue using it.
(Signed) A. J. HOWARD,
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalg'ety & Co. Ltd.).
.. „ SYDNEY (E. Rich & Co. Ltd.).
»». »,» ADELAIDE (D. & J. Fowler Ltd.).
~ „ KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalg'ety &. Co. Ltd.).
» » BRISBANE (E. Rich &. Co. Ltd.).
>■ »,» ROCKHAMPTON (New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.).
>i ~ TOWNSVILLE (Australian Estates and
Mortgage Co. Ltd.).
„ „ FREMANTLE (Dalg'ety &. Co. Ltd.).
,> »* HOBART (Win. Crosby & Co.).
„ „ LAUNCESTON (Wo T. Bell & Co ;: Ltd h
LADIES’
TAILORS.
David Braham & Co.
94 King Street,
Sydney.
Cutter—Mr. H. HURPHY,
Lately cutting for Mr.
C. SHAVE, the Lady’s
Tailor of Melbourne.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing SIiCCeSS is the
best proof of the claim of
£ungTomc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can b 3 obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
Asjcfok
BOSISTO’S
u
PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
[SUBSTITUTES-*
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
CURED
by Dr Langston's Perfect
Combined Tbeatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book—
"RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE - ’
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
the LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars tree. Address—
J AS. C R A I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


►KINS &HIDES
>
Wi
M
J. Kennon&sons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw Skins in Victoria
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Other SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment—and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sa/es sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Hennon & Sons
TANNERS (SL EXPORTERS.
Richmond, Victoria.
the:
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
out -° f - doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
KUIM ALSOU 1 than from the same money spent in any other way. AH the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome”
reliable car. ’
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line ; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard
Runabout. 1
I 7 H.P.
Touring: Runabout.
20 H.P.
2-Cyl. Touring Oar.
10 H.P.
Light Tonneau.
16 H.P.
Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich.
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd., 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney,
THE LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home’’ Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS ’ CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire,Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Gofcmies.
OOL.
AoiipAs Siiip'bot: 0m
■an ‘‘oo # noshvo ‘ssiaioohonim
oa r ioom jnox piios
FO
R
E
OME
§
$
'
e
t
R
THE
Roofing.
Dampcourse.
Floorcloth.
To be obtained from
all Storekeepers.
Wholesale Agents:
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
Sydney & Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1381.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1906.
Price 6d.
TARRED AND FEATHERED.
The Victorian Assembly carried the third reading of the Bill to abolish ex-Premier Iceberg Irvine’s Separate Representation of Civil Servants without one
dissenting vote. This practically abolishes the last of Irvine's legislation.
Bent: “In fact, I might say, we are removing our old friend Irvine off the premises for good.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia /or the. Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Ihe Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Unice of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
__ TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... .. 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
By tending direct to Thr Bitm,win Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
llow to A dilvess Betters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy .” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Motive.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mat.ourx in. Iliac,lc a nd. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under 'which
such artistic contributions rvill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Jc Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents ’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7^&xzZlelzM,,
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2, 1906.
THE FEDERAL LAND-TAX.
If the present Australian Parliament expires
without a resolute effort to do something in the
matter of the Federal graduated land-tax, it will
thereby commit almost the largest oversight of its
career. That tax is more abhorrent to the pro-
vincialists, the State Frights crowd, the anti-Sosh
brigade, the great Tory land thieves, and the un-
progressive elements generally, than even high
Protection, or than a dozen other democratic
measures; and as the essence of war is to be as
disagreeable as possible to the enemy, the Demo-
cratic party should proceed to be disagreeable.
Around the graduated land-tax there are con-
centrated more Tory lies than around probably
any other single item of the popular programme,
and these lies will whoop and flourish just
as long as they are not disproved by actual
experience. The dismal Tory prognostications
about the awful effect of the tax can only be de-
molished by enforcing the tax and showing that
the results are good instead of evil. If the Demo-
cratic party lingers ten years over passing the
measure the Tory programme of slander, false-
hood and malignant misrepresentation will
last ten years, and there will be ten years of mud-
throwing and ten years persistent circulation of
Stinking Fish. And if the Democratic party gets
the Federal graduated land-tax in full working
order within a year, the Tory campaign of blast
and blither will die in about a year. Herein lies the
difference between the painfully gradual process
of reform under the affable Barton and Deakin
in Australia, and the swift progress of Ballance
and Seddon in Maoriland. There are a dozen
important reforms which the Australian Tory is
still demonstrating at great length to be ruin-
ous, suicidal, unchristian and calculated to
call down on this country the fate of Sodom and
Gomorrah, about which the Maoriland Tory
had to shut his mouth in disgust several years
ago. Seddon did those reforms, and prosperity
came instead of ruin, and the logic of events
bowled out the false prophets so badly that even
the dogs in the street look scornful now when the
Joe Cooks and Bruce Smiths of Maoriland go
past.
* ¥ * %
In the matter of the graduated land-tax the
greatest, most robust and most impudent lie is
embodied in the Tory appeal to the farmers to
resist the proposed impost as a measure which is
specially directed against them. As a matter of
fact, it is specially directed in their favor. It is
class legislation, and the class it is especially in-
tended to benefit is the genuine farmer. It is de-
vised in order to supply him with land, to enable
him to own the freehold of his own farm, to
make the empty spaces available so that there will
be soil for his sons and his grandsons to settle on
close to the parental home, and to free him from
servitude to a grasping overlord. The tax, by
reason of the £6OOO exemption, will not fall on
the farmer, but only on his enemies, and it won’t
even fall on them when they cease to block
settlement and give up being enemies. And, above
all, the tax, instead of threatening the farmer
with that future "confiscation” about which the
Tory person raves, offers him a twenty times
better guarantee against confiscation than any-
thing he possesses now, or anything he can possess
while the big landlord continues to infest the
country. The alleged party of confiscation, about
which so much vivid Tory fiction is in circulation,
is the Labor party, which has its stronghold among
the trades-unions in the cities and in the mining
districts, and which is weakest in the farming
localities where they grow Kyabram "reform”
movements and such like. And the Labor party,
by its advocacy of a graduated land-tax, proposes
to so multiply the small farmer, and to so
increase his voting power, as to enable him to
vote down any attempt to reduce the exemption
under the graduated land-tax and thus bring him
under the impost, or to do that dreadful, imaginary
act of “confiscation ” about which Toryism raves
so. bitterly. Just now, for instance, the Western
District of Victoria—the section of the State best
adapted for close settlement—is owned by 167
persons, and, if the wicked unionists of Mel-
bourne, Bendigo and a few other centres desired
to confiscate, it is quite certain that those 167
votes wouldn’t prevent the nefarious deed. But
the Labor party deliberately proposes to break up
the great monopolies and replace those 167 great
steals with about 20,000 small proprietors, whose
votes, along with those of their wives, sons,
daughters and dependents, would make con-
fiscation impossible.
♦ * * *
If that astonishing liar, the aggregate Fat of
the community, had in its soul a shadow of belief
in its own wild tales of a scheme of land confisca-
tion, it would be doing one of two things in great
liaste. Either it would be selling its estates whole-
sale to whomsoever would buy and taking the
money out of the country, or it would be selling a
great part of them retail, so as to create, round its
palatial residence and the balance of its property,
a ring of small proprietors who, being landowners
themselves, would stand by it in its hour of need.
It is doing neither ; therefore it doesn’t believe in
its own bogey. Deliberately, and of set purpose,
the Tory party tries to keep the big estates to-
gether, so that the landowners will be so few and
their votes so scanty that confiscation will be easy
if the allegedly great and dangerous socialistic ele-
ment wants to confiscate. It manifests a faith and
trust in its enemies that, considering its own des-
cription of them, is something incredible. On the
other hand, the Labor party, in supporting the
graduated land-tax, shows a generosity and liber-
ality that is rare in politics or anywhere else. It
gets little support from the small farmer. In a
general way he is an enemy to it rather thanafriend.
Ly breaking up the great estates and enormously
multiplying the small, independent proprietor, it
proposes to set up an immense counter-balance to
the city and mining and shearing vote which is
its main reliance. But, on the other hand, it has
realised something which the narrow-minded and
ignorant land-grabber seems incapable of learn-
ing. It understands that it is good for the nation
to be strong for defence, and that no great mono-
polist has a right to prevent the growth of
an agric-.„ural class, even if that class is
more the enemy of the Labor party than its
friend. It has the sense to comprehend, too, that
man is of more account than sheep, though as a
matter of fact experience has shown that men and
sheep often multiply together, and that the great
landlord is in most cases an incompetent waster,
who by keeping men off the land rather diminishes
than increases the jumbuck. Of course it may be
said that the Democratic party hopes to reap its
reward in the gratitude of the farming class when
that slow-moving body realises, later on, the great-
ness of the benefit that has been conferred on it,
but gratitude is a poor thing to rely upon.
* * * *
The fact that the farming class is not to a
man in favor of the party which advocates the
Federal graduated land-tax on great estates is a
striking example of human incompetence. As
one instance of its obtuseness, the wail uttered at
the recent annual conference of the N.S.W.
Farmers’ and Settlers’ Association, demanding
the right to convert State leaseholds into free-
holds, is a case in point. The proposal
of those who advocate . the graduated land-
tax_ is to convert leaseholds into freeholds.
It is vastly more important that the man who
leases his ground at a high rent from the rack-
renting private landlord should have a chance to
buy out his landlord than the man who leases his
land at a low rent from the easy-going State
authority. Yet the large section which demands
that the State tenant should have the legal right
to buy out his landlord for a song, even contrary
to the terms of his agreement, is bitterly hostile
to any proposal to give the private tenant any
right to buy out his landlord on much more
onerous terms. In this matter Fitzpatrick,
the Farmers’ and Settlers’ candidate for Coota-
inundra (N.S.W.), recently shouted as follows, and
his shout received the warmest approval from the
anti-Spcialist morning press of Sydney :
We deny that the real men on the land should be pre-
pared to do all the work on the land, pay rent, and
having expended their energies, still permit the Govern-
ment to own that laud. Despite all our efforts, we could
never possess the freehold. ONCE REMOVE THE
PROSPECTS OF OWNERSHIP, AND IN NINE MONTHS
THE GARDEN WILL BE TURNED INTO A DESERT.
The members of the Labor party are opposed to the
settler being -given the freehold of the lands. We will
never submit to that. The farmer must be placed in an
independent position.
• * « X
On these lines, the only thing that can be said
against the Federal graduated land-tax scheme is
that it is absurdly inadequate. For if it is true
that, unless the tenant has a prospect of owner-
ship, the garden will be turned into a desert, then
it isn’t nearly sufficient to break up bv a tax the
big estates-of the A.A. Co., and the Peel River
Co., and the Berry estate, and the properties
°f. the S.A. Co., and the big landlords of
Western Victoria. It is also necessary, on
the showing of this Tory candidate, to give
every agricultural tenant the right to buy
out his landlord compulsorily, whether that
landlord is the State or a private individual.
And the terms should be the same; if the State
tenant—say in N.S.W.—demands the right to buy
liis land at an unduly low price, and on unduly
easy terms, then he deliberately proposes to
swindle his 1,500,000 landlords, the community at
large ; while the private tenant, if the person to
whom he paid the rent were compelled to sell out
to him on equally easy terms, would be com-
mitting the vastly smaller crime of defrauding
only one landlord. As a matter of fact, the
advocates of a Federal graduated land-tax don’t
even begin to compare, as confiscators, with
the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Association and similar
bodies. They haven’t yet got sq far as to propose
that the man who makes an agreement to lease
land should be allowed to break it promiscuously,
and become a compulsory purchaser. They don’t
ask for the right to buy the land on long terms at
a fraction of its value, as the Farmers’ and
Settlers’ Association peoplo do in their dealings
with the State. They don’t propose to rob the
big landlord, Clarke or Chirnside or Mani-
fold, of the value of his property if he will but
cease to block national progress, though the Far-
mers and Settlers propose to outrageously rob that
bigger landlord, the State. And they are not
such fools as to allege, as the great fool of
the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Association seems to
have done, that under the tenant system the land
must become a desert in nine months ; they have
sense enough to know that there are, in N.S.YV.
alone, some 21,000 persons cultivating some
4,000,000 acres of land rented from private owners,
and that, bad as their condition is, the land hasn’t
become quite a desert. In contradistinction to the
frothy Tory confiscators of whom the S.M. Herald
and Sydney Telegraph so cordially approve, the
Democratic party merely proposes to increase the
number of landowners by reducing the size of
their holdings, but so long as the landlord doesn’t
try to hold too much land it is not proposed to
interfere with him or with any dealings between
him and his tenant.
* • • •
Nor is there any element of State Socialism,
State ownership, land nationalisation, single-tax,
or any othei familiar bogey about the graduated
land-tax. It will rather tend to make those
alleged horrors more difficult, by vastly increasing
the number of landowners whose votes will be cast
against the said horrors. As a case in point,
France found no difficulty in confiscating the
lands of a few hundred great proprietors at the
He volution, but no power in France could repeat
the experiment now, when there are over 3,000,000
proprietors and their families to come out armed
and say “whaffor?” In fact, the graduated
land-tax is a strictly non-political idea. It is
wholly national. It is an effort, made chiefly
by one party, to aid, encourage and vastly
strengthen another party which is, in the
main, either indifferent or hostile to its
benefactors. The object is to strengthen Aus-
tralia by making room for population and
for agriculture which supports population;
to promote that settlement about which Toryism
blares so much and does so little ; to make this
country a strong outpost of the British empire,
and to help the “Flag,” and the Anglo-Saxon
race, all of which are stock Tory properties
in theory and things which Toryism utterly
despises in practice. In its desire to
bring about these patriotic results, the
land-tax party has been content to sink
any mere party issues. And, in demanding the
abolition of the big landlord under whose regime
there is either no agriculture, or only agriculture
of the tenant-farmer variety, the advocates of a
graduated land-tax have behind them the assurance
of the Tory press and of the Farmers’ and Settlers’
Association, and the Maoriland Farmers’ Union,
and similar institutions, that cultivation by men
who have no hope of owning the freehold of their
allotments is impossible—quite impossible. No
more damning indictment of the big landlord
system was ever uttered. The only trouble is that
if half of what the Tory press says about the big
landlord (when the big landlord is the State) can
possibly be true, even a graduated tax beginning at
properties worth over £5OOO and rising to Is. in
the £ on the most bloated variety of estate would
be quite inadequate. And, so far, the proposal
hasn’t got beyond a maximum of 4d. in the £l.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sin of Making the Railways Pay.
Premiek Carruthkrs has brought in a Bill pro-
viding that all three of the N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioners shall be discharged. Consequently
Chief Commissioner Oliver, whose principal
offence lies in the fact that he tried to prevent his
two colleagues entering into ridiculously stupid
and costly contracts to the public lost, whereby
serious quarrels arose, has a prospect of entering
into his great reward—the sack. He ought, on
his record, to be re-appointed as Chief Commis-
sioner with absolute powers, but, judging from the
tone of Premier Joseph, he has very little chance
to be re-appointed in any capacity at all. The
ease against Oliver is : (1) That, despite many
handicaps, he ran the railways well and profit-
ably, and showed the best results that the NfS.W.
system has shown for many years; but (2) he
didn’t get on very well with his two colleagues,
who truculently refused to recognise his position
as Chief Commissioner, and who seem to have
made a point of combining against him on
many matters out of sheer cussedness, even
when, as in the case of the coal and locomo-
tive -contracts, the public was the loser thereby.
Premier Carruthkrs admits that Oliver’s offence
in this matter was simply that he didn’t get on
well in a position that was absolutely and wholly
impossible. Joe doesn’t profess that he could get
on himself as one of three Premiers with equal
powers, or that the S.M. Herald could pull
through with three editors, all sitting in a row
and all with equal authority ; therefore, the man
who gets Oliver’s billet is to have full control,
and Oliver is to be discharged for not doing what
his successor can’t do either, and won’t be
expected to do. Meanwhile the S.M. Herald,
which apparently loathes Oliver for being a mere
Australian, continues its campaign in favor of an
imported manager—almost any kind of manager
so long as he is imported, like the awful boomster,
Speight, of Victoria, and others. Some extracts
from the Herald’s latest yelp follow:
The present system of three Commissioners with equal
powers has broken down so completely that no Govern-
ment in its senses could suggest any tinkering with it;
and the experience of Victoria has proved the wisdom of
obtaining the best man available from the world’s great
railways, and giving him practically the entire control.
. . . The Premier-Treasurer boasts of his million surplus
as though it were a pledge of the highest statesmanship ,
and the Railway Commissioners will, no doubt, retire
pointing to the surplus of £400,000 as a remarkable
certificate of the soundness of their administration. It
has to be admitted, of course, that the aim of a Treasurer
in any Goverment should be to avoid an unwieldy sur-
plus, and statesmanship really, consists in forecasting
expenditure and calling for revenue so as to create no
unnecessary burden upon the taxpayer ; while the duty
of the Railway Commissioners is to do the best they can
with the means to their hands in contributing to the
revenue. As business men, the latter are not called upon
to make ends meet and provide a little over; if
they can legitimately pile up a surplus they are
doing the right thing. But there are limits. .. .
Nothing has been done to relieve long-suffering pro-
ducers, who have been forced to pay rates raised to serve
the exigencies of drought, and now considered fair
because the times have improved. There has been nn
suggestion of relief to the Western settlers, upon whom
"’^ th speo,al wel - ht burden of a monopoly
held by the Commissioners because of the absence of com
petition from ocean and rival land carriage. ... A Chief
Railway Commissioner is wanted who wili have the
broader vision and the keener instinct, and who will see
that to reduce burdens is not necessarily to lose revenue.
It must be impressed upon Parliament also that the pro-
posed new Commission should be a reformed body not
only as to its head and governance, but in personnel! ’ The
present Commission has been tried and found wanting
and the condemnation of one Commissioner is condemna-
tion for all.
That sets forth clearly the Herald's idea why Chief
Commissioner Oliver should go. He has made
the railways produce a surplus to help to reduce
the accumulated railway deficit of past years, and
he shouldn’t have done it. The great merit of the
imported Tait of Victoria, who is the Herald’s
tin god at present, is that he also produced a sur-
plus, but what is a sin in Oliver, the Australian,
is a great merit, in the Herald’s opinion, when
done by Tait, who is imported. Of course it was
impossible for Oliver to know for certain that the
railway receipts this year would juniD up by
nearly £600,000, and it would have been a reckless
tiling to reduce rates so as to swallow up the
increase before it arrived. The increase mostly
depended c:i the weather, and Oliver couldn’t
seethe weather in advance, any more than the
Herald’s prize fool could do so. Moreover, he
knew what the Herald’s prize fool apparently
doesn’t, that if he scattered all the surplus of one
amazingly good year in freight reductions, it would
be necessary to put the rates up again when
ordinary seasons returned, and then the Herald
would curse him for laying ex fa burdens on the
producer when the producer was least able to
bear them. As a case in point, it denounces
Oliver in this very article far raising rates during
the last drought when he really diminished them,
and how it would have cursed him if its charge
had been true the Lord only knows. Oliver’s
great offence is that he reduced the cost of run-
ning trains from 4s. 4d. per mile for each train in
1904 to 3s. lid. in 1903 ; that he reduced freights
far below the rates charged by the late Chief
Commissioner Eddy, though nojt to the extent
that the Herald wanted—yet his charges, on the
whole, are lower than those of the Herald’s im-
ported deity Tait ; that he has cut the propor-
tion of working expenses down to £54 12s. 7d. for
each £lOO of revenue, which is about the lowest
in Australia, and one of the lowest in the world ;
that he has kept the number of accidents to pas-
sengers in proportion to the number carried, down
to one-fifth the average of Canada and to a still
lower fraction of that of the United States, from
which country the Herald wants to import a
heaven-born manager. As to the charge of in-
creasing rates to the producer in the drought
time, that is a foolish lie; the average goods rates in
N.S.W. have been steadily cut down from 15s. lOd.
for carrying one ton 100 miles in 1891 to 10s. to-day,
and the biggest and most sudden decrease was in
the drought season, when the Herald says rates
were raised. But Oliver is an Australian, and
the Herald reckons he should be sacked for
having a surplus—for making the railways pay,
in fact, though the demand for a man who would
make the railways pay has been going up to
Heaven for years, and it was for that express
purpose that the Herald’s friend Tait was im-
ported. v
Wilks, Protectionist—When it Suits Him.
William Wilks, M.H.R., represents the Bal-
main district of Sydney, where Mort’s Pock is—
the place where they build ships, or at least
where they would be a lot more prosperous if they
did build ships. When Bill Wilks isn’t worry-
ing about the Walls of Perry or the Flames of
Smithfield, he is a Freetrader of the deepest and
most gaudy dye. He believes in buying every-
thing in the cheapest market, even if it is a nigger
or Chow market. He looks upon the process of
tearing wheat—an exotic vegetable—out of the
ground, and carrying it by rail to the sea-board at
less than the cost of carriage, and then shipping it
16,000 miles at great expense to feed bootmakers
and tailors who ought to be here, as a splendid
natural industry; while he holds that if we used
our own coal to smelt our own iron, it would be
an artificial and unnatural process, if not actually
sinful and contrary to the Walls of Perry. YoG
when the question of the new mail service came
before the House of Reps., Wilks arose, and
opened his countenance —seen dimly through the
smoke that arose from the Flames of Smithfield—
and said shocking things, some of which were
reported as follows
Mr. Wilks (N.S.W.) continued the debate on the
motion for accepting the new English mail contract. He
objected to the subsidy as excessive. Added to amounts
received by the company for the carriage of mails from
contributing countries, the total would approach a
quarter of a million. PROVISION SHOULD BE MADE
FOR AT LEAST SOME OF THE STEAMERS TO BE
BUILT IN AUSTRALIA. The Protectionists were always
talking about getting at the foreigners, and this was the
opportunity to do it. Even if none of the steamers could
be built in Australia—and he thought that they ought to
be—they ought to be docked here.
Mr. Frazer : At Mort’s Dock.
Mr. Wilks : It didn’t matter whose dock it was. Each
time a steamer was docked it would give employment to
250 men for four days. HE MOVED AS AN AMEND-
MENT THAT THE STEAMSHIPS SHOULD BE BUILT
OR DOCKED IN AUSTRALIA.
Not a word did Wilks say about only building or
docking the steamers here if the work could be
done more cheaply here than elsewhere. Nothing
at all about the Law of Pemand and Supply.
Not the semblance of a remark to the effect
that, according to all the canons of Freetrade,
his own constituents should only get the job
if they could compete against all comers in
the open market, and that if they couldn’t it
would be better for them, though they might fail
to see it, not to get the job, because the immutable
laws of Freetrade and Free Competition said so!
And nothing—nothing at all—about a compulsory
shipbuilding and repairing industry, which was
not based on Free Competition, being an artificial,
exotic and coddled affair that the country and his
own constituents would be better without! Bill
Wilks wanted an artificial protected industry for
his Freetrade constituents, and he even went so
far as to advance as a reason why his’Freetrade
constituents should have this protected and arti-
ficial industry, that “the Protectionists were
always talking ”in favor of things like that. At
other times Bill Wilks professes to believe that
Protectionists only talk foolishness, but this time
he quoted their talk as quite a convincing argu-
ment. Australia is full of Freetraders like WiLKS
who think Protection is ruinous except to them-
selves or their own constituents, and that Free-
trade is a splendid thing for everybody except
themselves and their own constituents.
♦
Tlie Territory Makes No Progress.
The squabble about the terms on which the
Northern Territory is to be taken over by the
Commonwealth seems interminable. Premier
Price, of S.A., proposes to surrender the white
elephant on two conditions: (1) That the Terri-
tory debt is taken over along with the Territory,
and (2) that the transcontinental railway is com-


pleted on something like the route of the original
survey, or at least without a deviation of more
than 100 miles from that route. Prime Minister
Deakin haggles eloquently and in beautiful
English, over both these points, and he is backed
up hy the Melbourne Age, which puts it that
“Federal Ministers do not see why the other
States should be asked to shoulder the results of
40 years of bad management.” Of course it must
be admitted that the management h is been bad,
and that a million or two of debt is a huge
item for such a handful of people as in-
habit the Territory. But if “ the other
States,” as the Age says, “shoulder the debt”
it must be remembered that they will also
shoulder a trifle of 523,620 square miles of land,
mostly unsold, and much of it very good and sale-
able land. South Australia can’t make much out
of this land for it can’t build that necessary
preliminary, an expensive railway to make the
country accessible. The Commonwealth can
build the railway, and when it is built the enor-
mous area of unsold land which the Common-
wealth will hold should be worth the Territory’s
debt and the cost of the line many times over.
If the Commonwealth doesn’t take the Territory
—assets, debts and all—the probabilities are that
England would gladly take it at the price, and
make it a Crown Colony run by coolie labor, and
it isn’t at all certain that there is any legal diffi-
culty in the way of S. Australia handing its
elephant back to England. No doubt there is
something aggravating about Premier Price’s
dictatorial way of insisting that the Common-
wealth shall build the transcontinental railway, but
if it takes the Territory it must build the railway
as the only method of making its new asset pay,
and Price’s rather aggressive way of ordering the
Commonwealth to do what it can’t help doing in
any case, might therefore be overlooked. As a
matter of fact, it is to all appearances neither the
size of the Territory’s debt nor the cost of building
the transcontinental line that stands in the way of
a prompt settlement. The trouble appears to be
that Prime Minister Deakin is a hesitating man,
who hates to commit himself to large under-
takings and big responsibilities, and the chances
are that he would be as lingering, as undecided
and as long-winded if the Territory had no debt at
all. To Deakin, who comes from the smallest
and most densely-peopled State on the mainland,
it would be a new experience to be personally and
directly responsible for an unpeopled wilderness
about eight times the size of his own State,
to build a railway longer than anything
Victoria ever dreamed of, and to hustle for
immigrants to fill the wilderness —more immi-
grants than the whole population of Victoria
amounts to. Deakin was never an explorer, or a
man who scrapped with naked aborigines, and
hunted for water-holes, and climbed the palm tree
to look for a dubious vegetable at the top of it;
and the Territory is out of his line. But while
he lingers gracefully and corresponds beautifully
the months that may mean the ultimate ruin of
Australia are flitting by. When the trouble comes
out of Asia, the Territory is most probably the
spot where it will strike us, and unless the Terri-
tory has a railway and a white population it is
defenceless. Even if we begin now—this year
and this very month—to build the railway and to
acquire the population, there is no guarantee that
the Territory will be garrisoned in time. And
Alfbed Deakin hasn’t begun ; he has only
written hesitating but neatly-composed corres-
pondence.
4
Tarred and Feathered.
After all, Vic. Premier Bent decided to go
on with his motion, expressive of the grief of the
Assembly at the loss of Iceberg Irvine. The
motion was carried by 39 to 21, but it was a
bitterly unkind act all the same. Bent himself
was not sincere m the resolution. His speech in
support of it was hollow, empty, and flippant.
The Oppositionists were as calm and cool as
ever the Iceberg person was in his most frozen
days. They simply told the cold, cruel truth
about that hard political frost, and traced out his
history of weak, crazy wobbling, starred by
one piece of flagrant and illegal despotism.
Opposition leader Prendergast, who made the
principal.speech against the motion, started dra-
matically by reading the famous Strike Suppres-
sion Bill right through. Then Irvine’s career
was taken piece by piece—the Freetrader who had
a duty put on eggs to protect his constituents
from the competition of S. Australians across the
border, the cutter-down of wages, the reducer of
old-age pensions, the man who increased! the
income-tax exemption, the author of separate
representation, the man whose loan flotations
were so disastrous that a child should have done
better, the general muddler who drew salary as a
member of an Assembly which he hardly ever
attended. He showed that Irvine always sup-
ported the side that briefed him, and that now,
when he wished to enter Federal politics, he had;
crawled away from all the cool, Calm convictions;
of his State political days. ' While writing to the
press iu virulent ODposition to Bent’s proposed
repeal of Separate Representation, he had
wobbled on that very question in his
address to the electors of Flinders. He
was now a Freetrader who had openly turned
Protectionist, and he had confessed that he did
not know himself whether he was a Socialist or
anti-Socialist. Never probably in any Austra-
lian Parliament was any man so stripped of all
honest political purpose. It was the chance that
the Labor party and a considerable number of the
Ministerialists had been awaiting for years,
and, unkindest cut of all, it was Thomas Bent
who covertly sooled them on. Irvine was shown
to the world as he really is, as the man who
worked in the same Parliament with him
found him; and even the papers that pro-
fess to support him had to publish the full
account of his shame. He was politically tarred
and feathered and carried out on the rail that had
been his seat ever since he entered politics. Those
proceedings in the Victorian Assembly constitute
the final malediction on Irvine s political career.
♦
Canteen Bills and Other Things.
Australian Hansard does not furnish enlivening
reading just now, for anyone who cares about
national politics. To judge from the last few
numbers, most members, with the tacit approval
of the Government, seem to think that the really
important issues for Australia are whether the toll
telephone system is better than a 1 ‘ flat rate ” ; or
whether a soldier should be allowed to get a drink
at a canteen, or should be compelled to go over
the road for it; or why the lift at the Sydney
G.P.O. isn’t working. The greater part of the
last number of Hansard is occupied with the dis-
cussion of these and similar problems. Meanwhile,
the national defences are in a state of hopeless
muddle; the Tariff Commission reports are left
untouched ; the Australian capital is still some-
where in the air; vast areas of good land are in
the grip of monopolists; the Northern Territory is
still a dead-weight and a danger to Australia ;
and the urgent problem of the financial relation-
ship of Commonwealth and States is as
far from solution as it was five years ago. The
Parliament that bothers itself, under these
circumstances, about the Post Office lift, or
the place where a soldier shall get a drink ; and
the Government that lets the Parliament bother,
are, to put it mildly, riot much use to Australia.
It may be a matter of vast importance to Jones
that h i is compelled to walk upstairs when he has
business at the Sydney G.P.0., or that his wife
is threatened with a telephone system which will
involve putting a penny in the slot every time she
rings up Mrs. Smith to talk about Mrs. Robin-
son’s hat. But it really doesn't matter much to
Australia. What does matter is that we should
have order and efficiency in our land defence sys-
tem, instead of chaos and inefficiency ; that we
should create an efficient Australian navy, and
put an end to the absurd and ignominious system
under which we depend for our naval defence on
an agreement which is as discreditable to our
national spirit as it is ineffectual in securing for
us any real protection—an agreement which
has, moreover, been consistently and flagrantly
broken by the Imperial Government ; that
the tariff should be amended into an in-
strument that will really tend to make this coun-
try, as far as possible, economically independent
and self-contained; that the lands of Australia
should be thrown open for settlement by people
who will use them, by means of a graduated land-
tax ; that the financial machinery cf the Consti-
tution should be perfected, and the finances of the
Commonwealth and the States made absolutely
independent of one another ; that the State debts
should be nationalised, and the State Govern-
ments prevented from pawning such of our
national assets as remain out of pawn ; that the
Northern Territory should be rescued from the
helpless hands of South Australia, and populated
with white settlers, who will keep the northern
door of Australia closed against the millions of
Japs and Chinamen who live just beyond it;
that the unnecessary and futile trifling with the
question of the Australian capital should be
brought to an immediate end. These are the
things that really matter to Australia just now.
These are the questions that the Australian
Parliament is to settle. These are the objects
to attain which we entered into the union.
And these are the tilings about which, just
now, the Australian Parliament has nothing—or
nothing practical—to say. There was really no
need to create all the expensive and elaborate
machinery of Federation, in order to settle where
a soldier should get his grog, or how telephones
should be paid for—important as these questions
may be in their right place. The old State
Parliaments were quite equal to problems of that
kind. The National Parliament has other uses.
At least, it was intended to have other uses. It
was designed to do what the State Parliaments
could never have done—to pursue high national
objects in a high national spirit. If it doesn’t do
that, it might as well not be there. These national
objects, be it observed, are not far-away, abstract
ideals, interesting to philosophers, but out of
the track of the practical politician. They are
pressing, practical questions, forced upon the
attention of Parliament by the urgent clamor of
everyday experience. But neither the Govern-
ment nor the Parliament seems to hear the
clamor. It is quite time that the electors helped
to make it a little louder. The coming general
election will give them an opportunity. Unfor-
tunately, one can’t feel too confident about the
use they will make of it The chief reason why
Federal members think so little of a national
policy is that Federal electors think a good deal
less.
“ Running the Crowd.”
“ C.C.” gives a sea experience :
lie the Melville Island trouble : to “ run the crowd ”
and thereby' save paying out wages is still employed as
the antidote to low freights. I once made an interesting
round voyage conducted on that economical principle.
We left London with an evil-smelling cargo of patent
manure for the Mauritius sugar plantations, and, what
with no afternoon watch below, hazing, and the conse-
quent free fights and revolver practice, the crew—a decent
crowd if they had been fairly handled—had a quite too
lively trip out. Result was that soon after we arrived
the afterguard carefully looked the other way while the
crew got their dunnage over the rail and departed—
wageless. When the niggers had jammed us chock-a-
block with sugar, the “ old man ” shipped a fresh crew,
mostly conducted aboard by the police (foreign gaols are
very obliging that way—it saves Government rations).
Two of the new hands were Dagoes who were
serving long sentences for wiping off an old score
against a Yankee mate by cutting their signatures on him
when they caught him ashore too drunk to object. But our
old man was a hard oase—a black-whiskered New Jersey
man, who “ didn’t care agardam ” what a man’s discharge
said about his character so long as his seamanship was
“ v.g.” He’d look after the crew’s deportment himstlf.
We cleared out with our Port Louis lambs for Bombay,
and had a fairly peaceful run across the Indian Ocean,
barring a few misunderstandings caused by the careless
habits of the Dagoes in dropping their marline-spikes
from aloft whenever the officer of the watch happened to
take his e3'es off them. But when we got our sugar out
and our ballast in, and the old man discovered that he
would probably have to wait a month or two for a cargo,
he began to offer the crew powerful inducements to leave
his floating boarding-house. The two mates, bo’sun,
carpenter, sail-maker and steward were related
to the old man, forming a very solid afterguard,
and they backed his efforts to clear the fo’c’sle
with a loyal enthusiasm worthy of a better cause.
Six days were devoted to chipping the ship in-
side and out, and shifting around the huge rocks
that formed our ballast, until the men’s fingers were raw.
The Sabbath day was devoted to taking the turns out of
the cables—an accursed job at the best of times. The
men’s tempers were not improved by the remarks of our
nearest neighbors who, lounging at ease on their fo’c’sle
head, criticised the work and shouted anxious enquiries
as to what crimes they had been transported for. It was
also our neighbors’ Sunday amusement to announce that
our old man had come on deck, by warning shouts of
“ Look out, boys! Heave and bust her ! The chief
warder’s got his eye on .you 1 ” followed by pointed
allusions to dark cells and bread and water if they
didn’t hustle around more. The ultimate result was that,
by twos and threes, the crowd forrard “ deserted,” and,
as usual, “ nobody saw them go.” After two months’
fruitless waiting for freight, we took in a few more tons of
rock and another crew of derelicts, broke our anchors out
of the Bombay mud, and sailed for Calcutta. By the time
we took the gorgeous Hugh pilot aboard, our energetic
old man had convinced the Bombay crew that he was a
horse—a real high-stepper from down East, and they were
chorusing their chantey, “ It’s time for us to leave her,”
with such a degree of fervent emphasis that the old man
rubbed his hands and smiled as he stumped the poop,
thinking of the light pay-sheet he would have to meet for
the round voyage.
We left Calcutta for London with a full cargo and a
fo’c’sle half filled with a crew shipped on the “shilling a
month for the run home ” principle. The Bombay crowd
had stepped ashore and forgotten to return. Two first-
voyage apprentices also managed to miss their passages ;
but, as the old man had pocketed fifty guineas with each
of them as premiums for a pleasant voyage, he didn’t wait
for them. There were plenty more mugs in England
willing to pay for the privilege of cleaning bis brass-work.
♦
Cutting Off the Canteen.
Decision of the House of Reps, to abolish the
military canteens represents a paltry piece of
political Pecksniffism —that, and nothing more.
Not a fourth of the members believe in the pro-
posal. Some Cold Tea advocates support it out of
ignorance; some of Bung’s friends are friendly
to it, because it is no part of Bung’s business to
help along a system of State Socialism applied to
the liquor traffic ; and the rest of the members
allowed the Bill to go through three readings fr om
sheer laziness or disinclination to brave the hostility
alike of Bung and of Cold Tea. Bung wants to see
the military canteens abolished so that soldiers may
get drunk to his profit on his premises. Cold Tea
is influenced to seek their abolition, partly perhaps
from an honest but mistaken idea that they
encourage drinking, but mostly for the same
reason which actuated the Puritans in their oppo-
sition to bear-baiting ; they have a love for gloom,
and desire to impose a beerless life on others, just
as the Puritans desired to condemn them to a
bearless existence. The truth is that the military
canteen, administered by military officers and
non-commissioned officers, whose chief interest is
to see that there is no drunkenness, its profits
going back to the pockets of the drinkers —repre-
sents the model public-house. The private Bung
finds his highest interest in selling the greatest
quantity of liqu< r at the highest profit in the
shortest time. The canteen official makes no
profit out of sales. Accordingly he has no interest
in selling dishonest stuff or in pushing business,
and he knows that heavy penalties and disgrace
will come to him and his regiment if there is any
drunkenness at the canteen, or through the can-
teen’s sales. By abolishing the canteen the soldier
will be driven to the private pub., where he will
get inferior liquor at a much higher price, and be
encouraged to get drunk. The Bulletin trusts
that the Senate will reverse the folly of the Reps,
in this matter. In a call of the Reps. 60 out of
90 members would vote against the Bill. The
Senate’s duty is to join with that majority, even
though it was too tired and careless to express its
opinion on the private members’ day, when the
Bill was rushed through. Thereby it might avert
the threatened “strike” of the army, which is
such a humorous idea that it ought to.be averted,
lest the country injures itself laughing. In other
countries armies have been known to mutiny,, but
the idea of a military strike, with pickets, mili-
tary blacklegs, the possible registration of the
troops as a trades-union, and the police keeping
order is purely Australian.
♦
Wanted, a Party that Will Damn State
Rights.
A plank which would add a great deal of solidity
and considerable lustre to the platform of all the
progressive elements in the Australian Parlia-
ment would be one setting forth that these pro-
gressives represent the Federal party in Austra-
lian politics, and that they are for the extension
of the Federal power every time and all the time.
All the small mean politicians and all the small-
minded mean papers are banded together in the
interests of what they call “State Rights.”
They wish to keep all possible power in the hands
of the small Legislatures which represent small
sections of Australia, and in which small men do
small pottering things about culverts and other
baby-sized sundries. A Parliament which repre-
sents all Australia has so large a constituency
and so wide an outlook that it can hardly
help having large ideas occasionally ; and
the Party of Small Things hates to have any
more public matters than it can help left in
the hands of the Parliament which has large ideas
occasionally. Consequently the ephemeral litera-
ture of the day is dotted over with wails like
these: —
What is repugnant in the scheme, aside from its gross
unfairness, is the evidence it gives of the desire of a sec-
tion of the Commonwealth Parliament toincrease Federal
power at the expense of the Telegraph,
on the proposed Federal graduated land-tax.
Senator Symon criticised it in severe terms. As re-
garded taking land away from the States, he said it
practically gave the Federal Executive a free hand. All
that was required was a notification in the Government
Gazette. The State affected would then merely be in
the position of a claimant for compensation. He insisted
that the Commonwealth ought to consult the States and
meet their prejudices in order that any thing like irrita-
tion might be avoided.
Mr. Millen emphasised the point that there ought not
to be any desire on the part of the Commonwealth to
secure larger and more democratic powers at the expense
of the States.
Senator Kkatjng agreed that there was no necessity to
impose any conditions on the States which would break
up the present harmonious relations. — Lamentable ex-
tracts from debate on the Eminent Domain Bill.
There are many progressive and patriotic poli-
ticians and others who advocate measures
which tend to increase and consolidate the power
of the Commonwealth, but unfortunately they
don’t profess and declare any definite policy of
Federal expansion. There is a great need for a
party which will make the expansion of the
Federal power a religion, and which will look
forward hopefully to a time when the present
States, and the present State Legislatures, will be
abolished, and all their powers, debts, and assets
transferred temporarily to the Australian Parlia-
ment, which can then subdivide the continent
afresh into a multitude of small convenient States,
and endow each with a small one-horse (that
is to say, a one-House) Legislature to attend to
small local matters only, and to do even that
under the supervision and subject to the veto of
the Australian Legislature. Such a party would
offer no apology for its programme. It would
rise cheerfully to inform people like Symon and
Millen that the Commonwealth should not
“consult the States,” because the only people
it is authorised to consult are the men whom
the States send to the Australian Parliament;
that it does not propose to pander to imaginary
“ State prejudices,” these being mostly invented
by parochial newspaper and parish-pump politi-
cians ; and that the Commonwealth docs intend
to “secure larger and more democratic powers.”
The question is not one between the Common-
wealth and the people of the States, but only
between the Commonwealth and the petty State
legislators and their press supporters. “ State
Rights” in reality are not State Rights but State
politicians’ privileges. There are these two issues
involved and no more :
(1) Whether the people will govern themselves as much
as possible through the Australian Parliament, both
Houses of which are elected by adult suffrage, and are
entirety under the people’s control. This idea is called
by the parish party “ Federal Encroachment.”
(2) Or whether they will govern themselves as little as
possible through the Australian Parliament which they
wholly elect and wholly control, and as much as possible
through six small Legislatures, in each one of which the
Upper House is either a nominee Chamber or a property-
elected Chamber, and is largely beyond popular control,
and in some of which even the Lower House represents a
much smaller section of the people than does the Aus-
tralian Parliament. This limitation of the people’s con-
trol is called by the parish party “State Rights.”
“ State Rights ” are of value to two classes—un-
patriotic newspapers which can boss a small,
shabby, and it may be corrupt State Legislature,
but which have no hope of bossing the Parlia-
ment of all Australia, and which consequently
desire to see all possible power retained in the
hands of their small local creatures; and petty
politicians who can find access to the small,
shabby, local Legislatures, but who have no hope
of getting into the larger Federal atmosphere.
There is no reason why Australia should consider
either variety of parasite. It wants a strong party
which will have for its watchword, “Damn State
Rights.”
Bent’s Licensing Bill.
Premier Bent, of Victoria, has learned many
things from his experience in that lamentable
Melbourne suburb that closed up a huge batch of
hotels, and almost beggared the Government in
compensation. His new Licensing Bill has the
footmarks of that experience all over it. Licensing
fees in Victoria have always been absurdly small,
and the granting of licenses received so little
check in the roaring days that, at the present
time, there are 1400 hotels in the State in
excess of the statutory number. Briefly, Bent
proposes to shut up those 1400 hotels and
as many more as the community thinks fit.
During the next 10 years the State is to pay com-
pensation for every house closed. After that
time there will be no compensation of any sort.
A local option poll will be taken at every general
election, and the people will say whether they are
in favor of continuance, reduction or no licence.
An important provision requires that when the
licensed houses in a district have been reduced,
the hotels that remain open shall be charged by a
pro rata assessment a sum sufficient to make up
the amount lost in license fees on the ones that
have closed. 'The idea is that where four
hotels exist there is drinking enough to sup-
port four, and if the four hotels are reduced to
two, these two will divide enough drink to support
four, and should pay accordingly. Sunday trad-
ing is fallen on heavily by the Bill. “ Boarders”
cease to exist as privileged persons. “ Travel-
lers ” are hedged about with so many restrictions
that, if they are well-advised, they will carry their,
own flasks. All bars are to be on the ground
floors, and the inside of every bar is to be visible
through a window. No female under 21 years of
age will be allowed to sell drinks, and no male
under 18. The serving of drink to persons
under 18 or to prohibited persons is made
an offence. Betting and gaming on licensed
premises are forbidden, and in this connection
an important clause is the one piohibit.ng the
posting, inside or outside of hotels, of information
relating to betting, lotteries, sweeps, raffles, totes,
or other sporting events. At present half the
hotels of Melbourne are huge advertising agencies,
in the windows of which the latest information
regarding racing and betting of all sorts is posted.
Clubs are dealt with rigorously. The license
fee is to be £lO for the first 50 members, and
£2 for every additional 50. Club bars, too,
must close at the same time as other bars,
and the same provisions as regards gambling
and unlawful games will apply to them as to
hotels. This will be a great blow to the club sys-
tem, for at present any old combination of men is
called a club, and is placed virtually beyond the
law in every respect. Altogether Bent’s Bill will
be a good thing for the only kind of publican
worth mentioning, while at the same time it will
satisfy, to a large extent, the anti-liquor party. It
is not certain that it will reduce the amount of
drink consumed, but it will cause that drink
to be taken in decent houses, under decent
circumstances. It will be good liquor, and
it will not be consumed in an atmo-
sphere of pony-race and dog-fight. The
dingy little groggeries that struggle along on
the verge of insolvency, kept afloat only by adul-
terated liquor and illicit gaming, will disappear.
The numbers of Bung will be reduced immensely;
but those of him that are left will have a much
happier and more prosperous time. At present,
Victoria is so overloaded with pubs, that, on the
evidence of the official returns, only 32 per cent,
of hotel-keepers are making enough to qualify
them to pay income-tax. The other 68 per cent,
might as well be put out of their misery, and, to
a great degree, Bent’s Bill wil do that—by instal-
ments. The only real grief about the business is
the unnatural enlargement of Preacher Judkins,
who can’t get rid of the idea that alone he did it.
Policy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Calling the mailed fist to our aid—armed with the
tools of the soldier man —,
We stood, in our fighting ranks arrayed, to finish
the work our sires began.
With swprd unsheathed, and with loaded gun,
undaunted aforetime strode we forth,
And we snatched fresh proselytes one by one
from ice-bound South and frozen North.
From Novth to South, and in between—over,
below, or upon the Line —
Our militant, barking ships have been, smoothing
the way for the Word Divine.
Smoothing the way with a cutlass blade, serving
out death to reluctant ones ;
Preparing the Heathen for what Christ said
■about love, with rifles and big iron guns—
Smoothing the way, so that in our wake, armed
with a Bible and string of beads,
The Mission might drone for the Saviour’s sake,
and add to the frefc of warring creeds.
This was our way ih the olden day, when we were
the dominant race, and none
Of the Underlings dared to dispute our sway, for
dread of the bark of a big iron gun.
This is our way with the weaker yet (when there
is no doubt of their impotence),
We argue with these with the bayonet, and strike
when they plead in their gods’ defence.
But lately a nation uprose in might, that bows to
a god with a carven head ;
And late it hath proven its power to fight and to
tread in the paths that the Mighty tread.
Now, supposing our Pagan should intimate he will
brook no meddlesome mission school,
With conduct marks chalked on a greasy slate and
Mentor, grim-visaged, upon a stool;
And, supposing he hinted insistence might lead
on to a complication grim,
Think you not, then, we should do but right to let
him be damned for his Pagan whim ?
Were it not wiser to bid him kneel at his futile
prayers, as his fathers knelt,
Than to risk the clash of our steel on steel that
lately bit deep in a Christian pelt ?
Nay, more, to placate him we’ll call him “friend,”
and hold his hand in our own and say :
“ Because we are fearful lest we offend, your creed
shall rank holy with ours to-day ! ”
MAORILAND.
SIBG. S. GLARK.


ħ
Gafi&Ker
3elo/\£Ss to
rvo TVcist or
Combine
/AADE. in BELJf^T
“ Sure, it takes
an Irishman to
fight the Tobacco
Trust , after all!”
JSx-Premier Twaddell has had the cheek to put
this notice on the business paper of N.S.W. As-
sembly :
. (1-) That the time has arrived when the selection of a
site for a Federal Capital should be finally determined
upon.
(2.) That of all the sites offered, the Lyndhurst site is
the most suitable, and should be adopted.
(3.) That the Government should take the necessary
steps to communicate the foregoing resolutions to the
Government of the Commonwealth of Australia.
And the Commissioner appointed by the N.S.W.
Government of which Twadeell was a member,
after inspecting every locality suggested, and
considering roads, railways, distances, fertility,
climate, water supply, available building materials,
&c., reported that a Monaco site, and not Lynd-
hurst, was the most suitable. Hasn’t Twaddkll
the decency to stand by the action of his own
Government ?
♦
The death of the balancer Donald M'Leod at
the hands of the Flemington mob had a pathetic
sequel. M'Leod was the son of braw Scotch
parents at St. Arnaud (Vic.). He had been a
straight, honest lad while in St. Arnaud, where
he had toiled as a miner. In Melbourne he went
wrong, though he carefully kept all knowledge
of this from the old people. When he was
killed, and the newspapers were full of stories
about him, the sturdy old father and mother
realised something of the position for the
first time. When the body reached St.
Arnaud the coffin was opened, and the
police required the old people to identify the
battered corpse as their son. That was the last
straw. The old mother could not sleep. She
could do nothing but think of her big sturdy lad.
Within a week her brain gave way, and she
had to be removed to the Sunbury Lunatic Asylum.
Donald McLeod’s blood is mostly on the head of
the church. Parliament andGiLLOTT and Bent
may be responsible in so far that they lack the
courage to defy the combination of the “cloth” and
the bookies, and dare not abolish bookmakers, ille-
gal totes, scalers, balancers, welshers, and Wren
by the only possible method—the substitution for
them of an honest, legalised tote. The church,
pawing at its dry dogmas and its dusty fetiches,
makes no progress at stopping gambling. It
makes a lot of progress, however, at supporting
the bookie. And meanwhile McLeod is dead—
dead on the church doorstep, so to speak.
♦ — :
Premier Kidston has put before Bananaland, for
thelastsession of its 14th Parliament, a programme
which contains a fair number of democratic
proposals. The Mining Bill will repair many
anomalies and make the lot of the poor man easier.
The Railway Bill introduces the betterment
principle as regards all lines to be sanctioned in the
future. The Closer Settlement Bill enables the
State to impose a tax on large holdings required
for settlement. The Trades Union Bill is
devised to protect the funds of the unions ;
the Forestry Bill aims at much-needed timber
conservation and the destruction of great timber
monopolies. The amendment of the Shops and
Factories Act provides for the establishment of
Wages Boards, and in no part of Australia are
they more needed, for the Brisbane sweater
is what Americans call “ the limit.” Finally,
there is a Workers’ Compensation Insur-
ance Bill, also much needed, and other re-
forms. Premier Kidston opened the session on
a good wicket. Philp sat on the front Opposition
bench all by himself, like a small pelican in a
great wilderness, and 14 supporters gathered at
his back or on the cross benches, while the Govern-
ment s buttress numbered nearly twice that num-
ber. Philp was so depressed that he only
interjected once during Kidston’s ministerial
statement, and then he said '‘Bunkum,” in a faint
voice, whereat the House—mostly with its now
suit on and a rose in its coat —sniggered mildly.
♦
Dr. Arthur writes:—
Re Chinese commerce and your comparison between
the negro problem in the States and the effect of Chinese
immigration into Australia. The Mongolian problem
here would be far the more virulent of the two. The
negro represents a lazy, thriftless, down-trodden race,
low down in the scale of humanity. He has the mental
and moral characteristics of the child, and if there is any
possibility of further evolution in him it will take thou-
sands of years to do it. The troubles which his presence
in the States give rise to to-day are simply a retribution
for his having been brought there at all. Nevertheless he
can be controlled and kept in check, and his existence is
not going to affect materially the destiny of the North
American Republic. But open our ports to the
Chinese and Japanese, and what will we find 15 or
20 years hence?—a Uitlander crisis just as acute as the
Transvaal Boers had to face in the period before the
S’African war. In 15 years China will be a considerable
naval and military power. All recent books on the Far
North are filled with “ the awakening of China,” and the
awakening is mostly in the direction of efficiency in
modern armaments. Add the naval power of Japan,
which already dominates the Pacific, and John and his
cousin in Nippon begin to appear as personages we
may have to grovel to unless things change greatly in
Australia.
John may find that he wants a vote, that he ought to
be able to take up Crown lands, that he should be eligible
for a seat in Parliament, and if we continue to say him
nay, he may get nasty, and call on his own and allied
Governments to ask the reason why.
If the negro felt aggrieved, his only appeal could be
to the neighboring republic of Hayti, or across the
Atlantic to Liberia. In Africa the Rand mine owners
cajoled the British Government into shouldering their
quarrel with the Boers, and the resources of the Empire
combined to give the poor, down-trodden (?) Uitlander a
vote (and Chinese labor).
This established a precedent fora Government to inter-
fere with the internal control of another State if some of
its own subjects reside there, and don’t get the treatment
they think their merits deserve.
Let us make no mistake. The pressure of Asiatic
diplomacy is going to become far more insistent in the
uture, as the power of those nations to back up their
representations increases, and their demand will be free-
dom of entry, and the privileges of citizenship. If we
yield, then a Mongolian flood will bury white Australia
as the lava recently covered the villages around Vesuvius.
No wonder I fall into a “ frantic craving ” for almost
any kind of white immigrant, especially one who will be
able to live in Northern Australia. Unless we make this
matter our chief concern for the next 20 years, the most
hideous doom that has ever befallen a whitt race is being
prepared for us.
“ Itan,” from Brisbane :
The evidence obtainable in Bananaland to prove that
cotton can be profitably raised by white labor, is sup-
ported by abundance of "testimony from other countries.
On the authority of the Florida Agriculturist (Florida,
U.S.A.)of last February, there is a great demand in the
fields of the Mississippi delta for the Italian laborer in
place of the played-out negro. The Italians have given so
much satisfaction that they promise to put the colored
men right out of the fields. Colonel Alfred A. Stone,
one of the largest cotton-growers of that part, recently
read a paper before the American Economic Association,
giving facts which went to show what the negro
has to fear from the white competitors. When
his firm took over the Sunnyside plantation
(Arkansas) in 1899 there were 200 Italians and 600 negroes
there. At the end of 1905 there were 500 Italians
and 175 negroes. The white hands cultivated a far larger
acreage per man than the colored. Besides, the Italians
raised an average of 4031 b. of lint per acre, and their out-
put was 25841 b. per man ; while the negroes averaged
only 2331 b. per acre, and only 11741 b. per man. In matters
of economy an I thrift, the comparisons were even more
strikingly in favor of the white worker. As a result of
this, white men are in increasing demand in Georgia,
Alabama, and South Carolina. The Houston Post de-
clares that negro labor being no longer reliable, farmers
have almost ceased to employ Uncle Tom, and states that
in Texas three-fourths of the cotton is already produced
by whites. Queensland’s cotton expert regards this as
pretty conclusive evidence that cotton can be raised by
white labor. There is now in Brisbane, he says, enough
suitable surplus labor to pick at least 5090 acres of cotton
—taking only into account the people who are receiving
relief from the State because they cannot get employ-
ment, and not reckoning those in other centres, or the
aged and infirm. “The cultivation is simple,” he adds,
“ the shrub is hardy, defying, more than any other crop,
our climatic vicissitudes : it thrives remarkably in all parts
of the State, and with an ever-increasing local and foreign
demand, it should speedily become once again a leading
industry."
*
As part of almost every recent English wool-trade
report, since the merino market became firmer,
there is a reference to the import of rags. Gener-
ally it runs something like this :
An increase in the quantity of rags imported will be
noted ; with wool at present values the use of cheap
adulterants is unavoidable. A large increase in the next
cotton crop must not be overlooked as a factor in the
situation during 1907, and it is pretty certain that cotton
will be cheaper then.
It is against that the Australian and Maoriland
woollen manufacturer has to struggle. The Aus-
tralian manufacturer for the most part does not
adulterate at all. He has a name to make; his
works are under the eyes of the only customers he
has to rely on ; and, even if his customers were
blind and he himself were a fraud, the adulterants
are not at hand. At the best of times his profits
are poor; when the wool market is good, and
Australia, generally speaking, is glad, the
Australian manufacturer, as a rule, can only
pull through either by writing off nothing for
the wear and tear of his mill or by leaning up
against his uncle. Of five out of seven Australian
woollen mills whose accounts are published is
this ghastly thing true regarding the past two
years’ experiences. But the English manu-
facturer, whose goods have thus.been forcing the
Australian into bankruptcy, has alongside him
his own millions and the millions of Europe,
among whom rag-collection is a trade, if it isn’t an
art; and whenever wool is dearer by a fraction of
a farthing per pound, the rake goes down deeper
into the ash-barrel, the sewer is flushed with more
care, the recesses of the foul cellar are explored
with a longer pole, and “an increase in the quan-
tity of rags imported into Great Britain is noted.”
Then, within a few months, the fool-Australian
who despises the products of his own infant looms
is sporting “the very latest importations,” be-
cause they are marked up in the shops—“As worn
in London.” Worn in London ! Why stop at
London ? They had probably been worn and cast
off in half-a-dozen cities !
Sydney Chamber of Commerce has appealed to
Joseph Carrcthers against the Anti-Trust Bill
now before the Australian Parliament. The
measure has as much to do with Joseph as Joseph
has to do with the Duma, but, in reply, he under-
took to fight for the Chamber in his own parochial
way, and uttered his views thus: —
This Bill might be used to foster industries in another
State or States, and let New South Wales take care of
itself. (Hear, hear.) He could very well understand that
if there was some large industry in Victoria, South Aus-
tralia, or other State which could command great politi-
cal influence, this legislation might be put in force to
bolster up some industry or monopoly. This is quite
possible, and must not be regarded as a mere figure of
speech.
Seeing that the measure is being piloted through
the House by a representative from N.S.W., for a
Governiftent a third of whom are N.S. Walers, in
a House largely composed of members from
N.S.W., this gratuitous insult to the Federation
is only worthy of a small speckled soul like that of
Cakruthers.
Newton Moore, Premier of Westralia, is a hefty
joke. He was boosted into his present job partly
because he came from Bunbury and partly be-
cause he was supposed to look the part. He is
some kind of a major, and he weighs 1G stone.
At the beginning of the Newton Moore Minis-
try, Keenan was supposed to drive the Minis-
terial cart. He was even regarded as the author
of the heavy speeches which the heavy Moore
delivered heavily. Now Treasurer Wilson is
supposed to have the exclusive loan of Moore’s
ear, and under his influence Moore calls heavily
for “a bold borrowing policy”—this in a com-
munity which already owes about £7O a head.
The sluggish Newton has no political principles
to speak of; he doesn’t know whether he is
Liberal or Tory; he has only been off his native
sandheap once, and then only as far as Melbourne;
and he reckons John Fokkest the greatest man
that ever lived. When it is considered that this
plain calamity rolled from obscurity to the
Premiership in less than two years, one gets a
faint idea of what Westralian politics are like
nowadays.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “In London Town.”
Her Majesty’s “Dorothy Vernon.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers
Haymakket Hippo- l Bohemian Dramatic Co.
drome..... I
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s R. G. Knowles (last nights.)
Her Majesty’s "The S<|iiaw Man.”
Theatre Royal. “ Honor Thy Father.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
*
Sydney theatrical life is singularly quiet
for the winter season. Ordinarily in Sydney the
winter is the time of content for stage folk.
During the steamy summer the theatre has to
compete against the moonlight picnic, and the
picnic which frankly doesn’t pretend to want any
moonlight, and attendances suffer accordingly.
But in the winter evenings amusement must be
taken in the theatre or concert hall, or elsewhere
indoors, and usually three, or even four, first-
class co.’s, and one or two second-class
organisations, compete for the public’s favor.
This winter it is seldom that there are more than
two serious shows running, and they are eked out
by amateur and biograph entertainments. From
all appearances there would be a small fortune
waiting a theatrical manager who could drop into
Sydney now with a grand opera co., or any other
really big attraction.
** # *
“With Flying Colors” makes way for
“In London Town” at Bland Holt’s Theatre
Royal next Saturday. The policy of reviving old
favorites at this Sydney play-house is proving so
successful as to put experiments with novelties out
of the question for the present. This may be
pleasant for Bland Holt, but it rouses feelings of
anger beneath the shirt front of a man who wants
something new to write about.
ELLA CASPERS, a promising young contralto,
who is staying in Australia to have her
voice trained.
Photo, by Mrs. Caspers, Goulburn (N.S.W.).
On Friday night “ The Dictator ” will
cease to dictate in Sydney to anything less dan-
gerous than a typewriter; and already all the
sweet young things of the city are putting new
bows on their muslin frocks to welcome back Miss
Tittell Brune to Her Majesty’s. With her come
“Dorothy Vernon,” a play not hitherto seen
beside the Harbor, and Thomas Kingston, who
hasn’t been seen there for many years. Dorothy
wore her bib and tucker in the so-romantic days
of Elizabeth ; and if that and Tittell Brune and
Thomas Kingston together don’t crowd Her
Majesty’s and give all the young ladies’ academies
something extra to talk about, there is no hope
for the Drama.
** * *
Papa Holman and Neville Mayman gave
their fourth dramatic costume recital at St. James’
Hall, Phillip-street, Sydney, last week. As usual
the combination of talent and beauty that has
learned the art of speaking with elegance and in-
tensity from Pa Holman acquitted itself in its usual
creditable maimer. This time the play was “ The
Hunchback,” one of the two of Baptist preacher
Sheridan Knowles’ plays that have escaped
oblivion, though why it, too, should not have
joined all the others is not very obvious, for it has
not much claim to originality, poetic language, or
strong situation. However, its moral is all that
might be expected from a writer who broke
away from the sinfulness of play-writing and
the wiles of the theatre to take to religion
and controversies with Cardinal Wiseman on the
thrilling subject of Transubs tan tint ion. As pre-
sented by the H.-M. combination the play, con-
densed into four acts and interspersed with tril-
lings and fiddlings undreamed of by Sheridan
Knowles, was not quite easy to follow by
those unfamiliar with Knowles’ little ways.
To that portion of the audience it was a
mystery who was the Hunchback until the
last act, when Mr. Holman announced that he
was the malformation, in spite of the fact
that he was made up as a nice-looking, well-set
old gentleman with a reasonably straight
spine. However, that was his only misde-
meanor. His portrayal of the match-mak-
ing, prosy old humbug. Master Walter, was
eminently satisfying. Miss Lilian Booth played
the constant heroine and wore her pretty frocks
in a most lifelike manner, and fainted with grace-
ful ease without any just cause or reason every
time the playwright demanded it. That is art.
The vivacious Helen, almost the only live person
the author created, was charmingly presented by
Miss Hilda Bevege. Her scenes with Cousin
Modus (Mr. Neville Mayman) secured and de-
served nearly all the applause and some flowers.
None of the other character-bearers call for
special enthusiasm or clods. It must be urged
in their extenuation that it would be difficult
for an ordinary man or woman to live up to
the standard of awful purity and excellence with
which Sheridan Knowles saddled his unfortunate
characters. The quality of the company is
proved by the fact that it could make such a
weird production as “The Hunchback” enter-
taming. The trillings aforementioned were sup-
plied by Mr. Kilburn-Heron and Misses Gibson
and Duffey. Last-named has a contralto voice of
haunting sweetness, that caused temporary forget-
fulness of Master Walter’s prodigies.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion the Public Service
Amateur Dramatic Society has been playing
“The Merchant of Venice” to good audiences.
The piece was well staged, and had a graceful,
clear-voiced Portia—a girl who evidently had an
accurate conception of all the philosophy and
humor she had to utter. Miss Stella Chapman is
the bright-eyed damsel in question. But all the
clever efforts of a huge and capable cast were
thrown into a dark background by Victor Cohen’s
performance of Shylock. It was a startlingly able
and fresh reading of the monumental Jew charac-
ter. It was never mean or melodramatic, and
might take its place for ability with many a
notable professional study of the same role.
* ** *
New tenor Mr. Gerard Kean sang his
opening note on Wednesday last, at Sydney Town
Hall. On Saturday night he gave a second con-
cert. Before and after his appearances opinions
favorable and unfavorable warred around his voice.
"Just mark my words, this will be one of the
Voices of the century—so much of the cen-
tury as we shall see, of course,” says one
professional musician nowise interested in the
tenor. “It’s an insult to the public to
ask it to pay to hear such a voice,” says
another authority. As for this writer —well, this
writer considers that Kean has a voice of rare and
splendid quality, and his discovery does Mr.
Grimm proud. But, as this penner said in a
former notice, when the singer had been heard
privately, the tenor is yet crude. The pure silver
of the voice, when freed from the dross of ignor-
ance that consists in not knowing how to manage
it, and from its owner’s mannerisms, rawness, and
other venial or deadly sins against Art, ought to
be a regular Potosi of a voice. In “Sound an
Alarm,” on Saturday night, Kean’s notes rang
like a silver trumpet, and he quite rehabilitated
himself with the public. For at his first
concert his emotional Celtic nature bubbled like a
geyser, and the singer did Capricornish tricks with
his vocal organ, and in his acknowledgments ot
his audience’s sometimes “ guying ” enthusiasm.
Mr. Grimm’s reappearance at the concerts showed
him in his usual polished vocal form.
*# # *
The man who lingers long over the fire and
goes late to the Tivoli on these evenings may
escape the first part, which is about the same as
usual, but he runs great risk of also missing a
seat. It is hard to say where in particular the
attraction lies; but the thrill is the cannon-
balancing feat of Brinn, the gentleman who can
poise the best part of a navy on his chin. The
rest of the programme is the same very good rest
that it was when last mentioned here.
** * *
Dungog, a little N.S.W. hamlet (popula-
tion 1083 at last census), produced on July 12 and
13 a home-made comic opera, “Artful Aline.”
The libretto was written in Dungog by a leading
Dungogite, Mr. Arthur Donnelly. Most of the
music was also strictly Dungoggy, coming from the
pen of the same Dungogite (seriously, he is
a capable and enthusiastic musician). All the
scenery was painted in Dungog, and the characters
were unanimously Dungogites ; it was Dungog
money that went to the box-office, and it stayed
in Dungog. The Dungog Chronicle was en-
thusiastic in its congratulations, and the Dungog
season of two consecutive nights was a glowing
success. And Dungog, presuming there is the
usual allowance of women and children, has some-
thing under 300 adult male inhabitants !
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) one more
week of “The Squaw Man” will terminate its
prosperous run. Meanwhile, Charles Waldron
and the co., likewise the scenery, continue to
diffuse an atmosphere of ranch, and a lively
imagination can almost picture the inevitable cow
with a crumpled horn that meditated too long
upon the Union Pacific railroad, and died from
tne effects of a passing train —the same old “pro-
perty ” train which halts every night outside the
entrance to the Long Horn Saloon at Maverick,
Wyoming. The Comic Opera Co. is looming in
the near distance with “ The Little Michus.”
#* * *
The bill at Melbourne Royal takes
another change on Saturday—a change that
can’t help being for the better- “Dangerous
Women ” is positively hurtful to the understand-
ing of anyone who enters the house of Anderson
without taking the precaution to leave his brains
on the mat. A young woman in a red costume is
perhaps the silliest character, but the foolishness
of the others leaves her very little scope for pre-
eminence. “ Honor Thy Father ”is the name of
the forthcoming drama, and if Thy’s parent turns
out to be a decent sort of old man the present
writer will act up to the commandment. It’s
quite a long time since he honored anything at
the Royal.
** * *
R. G. Knowles started his brief season in
Melbourne by scoring “a large and appreciative
audience,” thanks to the 10-year-old local reputa-
tion of the performer, and the lavish ingenuity of
manager Lincoln's advts. Melbourne seems to
have remembered Knowles, his white ducks and
battered hat, with a singular tenacity of recollec-
tion, although he was only one member of a strong
variety co. in days of yore. This time he is the
great bulk of the show. His wife plays piano ac-
companiments to his songs, and introduces an un-
remarkable banjo solo what time he is changing
his garments, and there are a number of pictures,
prettily displayed, which happen from time
to time. But the entertainment, as a whole, has
to stand or fall by the voluble monologuist, who
talks and talks, and occasionally sings and dances.
All things considered, R. G. Knowles may be
acquitted of presumption in undertaking to keep a
large theatre audience amused for two hours. He
is always the artistic humorist, never the aggres-
sive funny man who dwells upon his wheezes, and
“spars for wind,” so to speak. He has a lot to
say, and he says it in the least possible time, be-
ginning punctually at 8 p.m., and limiting his one
interval to ten minutes. The same monologue
might be prolonged for another half-hour, but
Knowles is rapid by nature, and he remains true
to himself.
• * * •
His enunciation, unfortunately, is not as
incisive as it was when he pattered long ago. He
is husky, and even a trifle thick in the tongue.
Some of his points are lost on some of the audi-
ence ; nevertheless he got there many times last
Saturday, and his jokes, which range from new
philosophies to matured chestnuts, prove particu-
larly acceptable to the womenkind. The Mel-
bourne season closes on Saturday this week, and
after putting in a night or two at Bendigo and
elsewhere, the hasty Knowles will get away to
America. His experiences in small towns have


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
|}2j< INSURANCE SOCIETY,
™ PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt asd Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM.
THE SPEEDIEST CURE.
It Gets There Quickest
%
A
ALL CHEMISTS, Is.
Four Times the Quantity, 2s 6d.
“FISHER’S”
EJ ACKACHE is often attributed to
defective Kidneys. This, in
measure, is only a bogey—an adver-
tising trick. Your Kidneys are cor-
rect—never fear.
In nine cases out of ten the pains
are nothing but MUSCULAR
RHEUMATISM, easily removed by
taking 10 drops of . . .
" F/SHER’S ”
Phospherine.
A Most Famous Cure.
(post free) FISHER & CO., 337 George St., nearly opp. G.F. Office, Sydney
not been joyful, for his entertainment doesn’t
satisfy the provincial demand for a full meal.
** * *
Probably a new “ turn ” eventuated at the
Opera House after The Bulletin had gone to
press, seeing that Homer Mason and the fair
Marguerite were to quit Melbourne early this
week. Other people are on the verge of de-
parture, and the need for fresh arrivals is urgent.
Raleigh and May, who came to hand last Satur-
day, have no particular freshness to recommend
them, beyond the fact that neither of them is a
woman. Raleigh is a sedate young balancer in the
slack-wire line of business, and May is the ragged,
grimv-looking other fellow who provides comic
relief. Jointly and severally they are good enough.
They have no shining virtues. Time was when a
man with his vest split down the back counted for
novelty, but the tattered waistcoat and the dis-
reputable pants have lost their charm for the
multitude.
#* * *
A remarkable exhibition of well-preserved
agility in a veteran performer is the jumping
of Seymour, of Seymour and Dupre—a recent
Rickards “turn” at Melb. Opera House. One
of his feats is astounding in itself, and more
astounding in the ease with which he appears to
accomplish it. A chair is placed on a table, and
Seymour, crouching on his knees upon the floor,
springs high enough to touch the seat of th chair
with his feet before turning a somersault back to
the ground. Again, he jumps from the chair on
to the stomach of a prostrate man lying several
yards away, suspending his descent so as to come
lightly on the human landing-place. He springs
backwards on to the table like one propelled by
machinery. And Seymour is a man of 4(5, an age
when the ordinary commercial citizen, fattened by
overfeeding and want of athletic exercise, is warned
by his fat doctor that he mustn't take the risk of
running for a train. It is by never stopping to
grow old that the skilled professor of agility
retains his powers up to, and even beyond, the
age appointed for a civil servant’s retirement on a
superannuation allowance. He jumps like a flea,
whilst.his twin brother toddles to. the city in a
frock-coat and tall hat, stroking his white beard
and complaining of his gout. Pantomimists,
jugglers, dancers, and weight-lifters are an inter-
esting satire on Divine William’s out-of-date sum-
mary of the Seven Ages of Man. Does a Paul
Martinetti or a Oinquevalli ever degenerate into
a “leanand slippered pantaloon,” or a picture of
“ second childishness and mere oblivion ” ? Not
much. He challenges his 12-year-old grandson to
a hopping race and beats him. The stage world
must have altered a lot since Shakspearesaid “all
the world’s a stage.”
## # #
“Kodak”: Now that the revulsion of
feeling has arrived and honest indignation begins
to replace the rag-time frenzy,, let us calmly con-
sider the coon-song. It usually starts with a
rumbling, ominous prelude like a threatening
storm, during which the serio, grinning from ear
to ear, prances backwards and forwards, and flaps
her hands at the bald-headed gentlemen in the
front row. Then the gentleman in charge of the
big drum hits it dead in the centre, and the lady
leans over the footlights and with her eyes start-
ing from their sockets, moans: —
“ In Hum-de-lum there lived a king ! ”
Orchestra : “ Bang ! ”
“A Hottentot 1”
Orchestra : “ Bang ! ”
“ Oh, he was hot I
And he would dance and he would sing ! ’’
Orchestra : “Ta-rum — ta-rum de-deedle—dum ! ”
“Oh, yes I (verycoyly)
I must confess 1
(P’r’aps more or less 1
With great distress 1)
So neat 1
Just at my feet! (Indicating her feet.)
Twas not discreet! (Shaking her head.)
Could not be beat 1
I said, with a ”
Band : “ Tumpty—tumpty /”
“ —twinkle in my little goo-goo eye, Coon,
You’re all right I ”
Band (very emphatically) : “ Bang ! ”
“ i/e said—‘Oh, ma Baby, meet me soon, soon !
So, to-night”
Band (hilariously): “ Bang ! ”
“ When the stars am out I ”
Band (sotto voce) : “ Thump ! ”
“ We two will shout! ”
Band (going off its head): “Bang! Bang! Rattle!
Rattle ! Bang! Bash ! ”
Serio (very tenderly, a 3 if she really did think it meant
something and could be understood) :
“ Oh l my Honey will yuh meet-ah me soon !
Underneath th’ moonee-moonee-moon !
Ah-m as silly as a loon—a loon !
Always singin’ this yere chooney-choon !
Oh-ah ma Honey you is hot— so hot!
An' I lubs yer quite a lot—a lot! *
So Ah—tells yer right upon dis spot !”
Band (dreamily—overcome with tender memories):
“ Tra—la”
Serio (springing backwards) “ Ma Hottentot !”
** * *
Comic opera is still scoring heavily at Ade-
laide Royal, where George Lauri has been giving
an ingenious rendering of the multi-millionaire
Hoggenheimer, the individual who is not rude—
only rich. The co. is very powerful all round just
now. Bantock and Fred Leslie have strongly
marked styles. The latter has hitherto been a
young man with a future, but it is fast coming to
meet him ; in the “Michus” he got the heartiest
and longest laughs of the piece. W. S. Percy
obviously forms his style on that of Lauri, and is
occasionally mistaken for him on first entering.
“The Girl From Kay’s” had the Maxixe dance
dropped in to enliven it. Just now another
“Shop Girl”—last seen here long ago with the
Gaiety Co.—holds the stage. The Tivoli has
roused from a long season of cheap melodrama,
and gone back to its own old line of variety busi-
ness. The persecuted heroine has had a good
innings ; the short-skirted soubrette is welcome
as a change, but she might have waited till comic
opera departed from the Royal, so that the skirts
wouldn’t clash.
Melbourne is harassed a tmnd deal in«f
uxeiDourne is narassea a gooci deal just
now by a burglar who seems to be either a living
skeleton, a snake, or a balloon—unless he is an
angel or a Vulture. His specialty consists in
breaking into warehouses through fourth or fifth
storey windows, and the theory is that he climbs
up water pipes. He seems to have climbed up
pipes that were too rotten to support even a bov.
and hen op ariw tbo bulrur otology,
fn h skeleton idea though
m some cases there are doubts whether the pipe
would have supported even a skeleton. And no
one has seen either an angel or a balloon around.
AT POVERTY POINT
In connection with the season of Williamson’s opera
co., commencing at Her Majesty’s (Brisbane) on August
4, the local inhabitants were allowed to make a selection
of eight operas out of this collection: “ Veronique,”
“ Utopia, Limited,” The Gondoliers,” “ The Mikado,”
“ Princess Ida,” “Yeomen of the Guard,” “Pinafore,”
“lolanthe,” “Pirates of Penzance,” “The Sorcerer,”
“Trial by Jury,” and “Patience.” Quite a number of
persons were sufficiently interested to vote. “ The
Gondoliers” headed the poll with 2457 votes, then came
“Veronique” (2450), “Utopia, Limited” (2256), “Prin-
cess Ida” (2059), “Yeomen of the Guard” (1996),
“Pirates of Penzance” (1954), “The Mikado” (1856),
“ lolanthe” (1802), “ Patience” (1800). “ Pinafore ” was
in the position of Jones at the Surry Hills election —at
the bottom of the list.
London Sketch of June 6 is encouraging to the young
Australian who aspires to things theatrical. On the
front page a picture of plump Carrie Moore, wearing a
yearning expression. Carrie used not to yearn ; this is
quite a new expression she’s cultivated. Next page but
one, a full length photo of Pansy Montague, taken at her
“ country home,” and a mighty swagger country home
too, if one can judge by the garden. Several leaves over
Alice Crawford, in five different positions, and t’other
side of that Alice again, in a “scene.” Finally, under
“Key. Notes,” Irene Ainsley, dubbed “The Maoriland
contralto.”
Death of G. B. W. Lewis leaves R. S. Smythe, at
present in Wellington running Frank Bullen, the doyen
of Australian managers. Smy.the’s first venture, in the
sixties, was Signora Bianchi, an Italian prinia donna, and
her husband, Eugenio Bianchi, a robust tenor. lt.S.S.’s
second venture was Miss Margaret Aitken, a celebrated
Scotch elocutionist, whom a Tasmanian bellman used to
call out;as, “ the celebrated executioner.”
FOOTBALL.
To deport the Kanaka we want more than the Austra-
lian Parliament; we want the Imperial Government in it
behind the High Commissioner of the Western Pacific. —
GRORGE REID.
’STRALIA : “ Nonsense! I can kick my goals
myself.”
“ Adelaide ”: I saw Miss Tittell Brune three times
during her recent Adelaide season—as Dorothy Vernon,
Leah Kleschna, and Sunday—and on every occasion she
said “ D ! ” Is this coincidence, or her own prefer-
ence, or a sign of the tendency of modern drama ? I
thought that Lady Macbeth and Emilia in “ Othello ”
were the only women with the right to say “ D ! ” in
a public place.
“ Old Pressman ” : Re par. (B. 12/7/’O6) about T. S.
Bellair. the old Melbourne actor. I remember his play-
ing at the ancient Haymarket Theatre, Melbourne,
where the Eastern Arcade now stands, in 1866. It was a
play in which an old cellarer, who is always steadily
boozed, says he “ takes it in at the pores.” I should say
that was one of Bellair’s best parts, else I wouldn’t have
remembered it those 40 years. F. C. Appleton, B.A.
(still to the fore), and Tilly Earle were, I believe, in the
cast. A couple of years later, l met Bellair off the stage.
It was at a dinner given at the Huminums Hotel, south-
west corner of Russell and Bourke-streets, by James
Stark, an Ainurican doctor, to stage and press. Didn’t
meet Bellair again for 15 years, when I was out at Essen-
don “ doing” the election at which Bryan O’Loghlen was
defeated. I had a drink in a pub. of which Bellair was
landlord. He didn’t then take it in at the pores—or at
the mouth much. He had become a highly-respeetable
old citizen, and, about that time, was Mayor of Essendon,
and a very serious old mayor, too.
Little Alma Grey, having dropped her distinguishing
adjective, is now a woman of some importance in the
profession. Just now, she is doing an Australian scena,
“ My Little Bush Girl,” at London Pavilion, and she is to
be principal boy in next Christmas panto, at Birmingham.
Alma is looking quite grown-up, and her work is improv-
ing John Bull’s opinion of Australian products, and re-
assuring the British investor.
A monster in human shape says he forged the name of
Dan Barry to this letter, and sent it to an eminent and
shocked English actor: — :
“ Theatre Royal, Cobar, 26th March, 1906.
“Douglas Gerrard, Esq., c/o A. E. McLeod, Esq
Wilgar Downs, Hermidale.
“ Dear Sir,—Mr. Williamson, when I was in Sydney the
other day, informed me that you were staying at Wilgar
Downs and were out of an engagement. He spoke very
highly of you, and recommended you to me for a season
at Cobar.
“ I am prepared to offer you a fortnight’s engagement
at 3 guineas a week (the highest salary on my pay-sheet
and only paid to stars), and pay second-class fare to
Cobar. We only open two nights a week—Wednesdays
and Saturdays—with different programmes.
“ Wednesdays, drama (legitimate), musical olio, con-
sisting of song-and-dance business, and farce.
“Saturdays, Shakspearean plays or light comedy,
alternated with Moore and Burgess minstrels, in which
you would be required to play the tambourine in the
opening, and afterwards do a double clog-dance with my
other comedian and a song-and-dance with my leading
soubrette.
“If you accept this offer please let me know at once,
and I will send the parts of Victor de Vere or the Disin-
herited Earl, and Joe Spriggs, a Cockney coster, in a new
and entirely original drama, ‘ Back from the Tomb, or
Victor de Vere’s Victory ’ (which parts you will double);
play in 4 acts and a prologue.
“ You could easily learn the part at Wilgar Downs
after you have finished your work at night, and so save
expense, and then come up, say, the Wednesday before
for rehearsal, and see the show the same night. If you
let me know in time we could arrange for you to take the
tickets at the door while I made a one-night appearance
myself.
“ If you are short of clothes don’t let that worry you, as
I have a good walking suit that is nearly as good as new,
which you could wear as Victor de Vere, and we could fix
up things for Joe Spriggs between the lot of us.
“I will make arrangements for you to stop at a first-
class boarding-honse where they only charge you 15s. a
week for board and residence, or if you do not care for
that you could camp in the theatre with the rest of us
and cook for yourself.
“ An early reply will oblige
“ Yours truly.
“ (Signed) Dan Barry.
“ P.S.—lf you suit I would not mind springing another
6s. a week, and take you on tour afterwards when we do
Bourke, Louth, Wilcannia, Milparinka, and Parragundy.
If you have any photos, send them along, so that 1 can
stick them up in the pubs.
“ I have been recommended to produce * Box and Cox,’
a comedy. I suppose you know it. Is it any good?”
“L.E.”: The cool, cute, ultra-modern acting of William
Collier shows once more that the American ’mime differs
from the British as a Manhattan cocktail differs from a
muddy ’arf and ’arf. The Yank has developed a distinc-
tive national style ; quiet, yet intensely nervous, and
with a lot of reserve up its sleeve. It’s quite easy to
bear Collier speaking jokes. They don’t jolt you. He
glides past them like a baseballer playing on ice. When
the Britisher attempts a joke you fancy something’s
going to break. He bangs the furniture about, hits the
fat man in the bingy, holds his sides, and roars and
howls with laughter. He exits roaring in his loudest
voice, and repeating some meaningless words that
are supposed to be the real essence of the jest.
Catch-words suit the Britisher. In the first scene
he may say “ Not at my time of life,” or “ Parsnips,”
and he bawls them out all through the piece, and he
fancies that by his perseverance and industry and
staying power he is funny. The Yank cracks a
joke as naturally as he draws his salary. When
the Briton steps into the arena he requires a red nose, a
patch in his pants, a big bag, a tiny boxer, a change of
scene, and a drum-thumping accompaniment ; then he
hits somebody, falls over the scraper, howls W'ith glee,
mops his brow, and when things cool down, says
“ Parsnips." He retires amidst deafening applause.
“ O’Fipp ” : Re Theodore Kremer, author of “ The Fatal
Wedding” (B. 17/5/’O6). Kremer is not the only play-
w'right who has graduated with Dan Barry’s co. Lilia
Wilde, who was leading lady of the co. in the nineties,
took her own thrilling edition of “East Lynne” (pre-
viously produced by Dan’s organisation) to the Cold Coun-
trv a few years ago, and the revised version of the sobful
drama met with considerable success. Miss Wilde was
also held responsible for various other Barry productions.
In view of the Kremer and Wilde successes*, not to speak
of the many dramas Dan is alleged to have written in
collaboration with Rev. Spurgeon, W. E. Gladstone,
Prince Bismarck, and others (I fancy the others included
Osman Pasha and Pontius Pilate), the Barry co. has been
quite a literary centre.
It will be like old times again at Melb. Royal
when John F. Sheridan returns once more with
a frivolous musical show. J.F. hasn’t been in
Melbourne since three years ago, when he played
a season at the Bijou. This time he will come
as a relief from the monotony of melodrama at
the Royal, opening therein “The Earl and the
Girl ” towards the end of September.
“Viator”: R. G. Knowles hands me his book of
“ Stories—Just a Few.” There is a gentle vein of melan-
choly in him, as with Jefferson and Fred Leslie. His
yarns make me think of the introduction to “ Gil Bias.”
For many years passers-by laughed at a board stuck in
the roadside between Penaflor and Salamanca inscribed
“ Here Lies the Soul of Pedro Garcia.” At last a student
dug there and found a lot of money. The mottoes to
Knowles’s chapters are singularly incisive, and all new to
me. I conclude he invented them, as Scott did the tags
from supposed old plays at the heads of his chapters.
Knowles is farcical enough in his writing, but fetches you
up in round turns with piercing wisdom. I suppose his
fount is Mark Twain, Josh fillings, Artemus- Ward,
Orpheus C. Kerr, et hoc, but the breed has been thinning
out too much lately. Here is his style : “In Gibraltar
begging is an occupation, in Malta it is skilled labor, in
Brindisi it is a profession, in Port Said it is a science, but
in Colombo—oh Christofero Colombo I—it reaches the
dignity of a fine art.”
It seems that the particular kind of musical comedy—
summer-costume comedy—which flourished for fully 10
years, will be superseded by the “ farcical musical play,”
with sometimes a touch of melodrama in it. “ The
Dairymaids,” wherein Carrie Moore sings a ditty about
the Sandow Girl that has knocked London very hard, is
described as a “farcical musical play.” The sentimental
heroine and her stage lover are minor considerations, and
the success of the show depends more on the dash and
rattle of individual performers than on stereotyped chorus
effects. People of late have grown weary of “ comedies ”
which lost the run of their story during the 2nd act, and
trusted to variety business to pull them through. Once
upon a time there was novelty in the spectacle of a
semi-circular chorus of girls and men nodding and wag-
ging their heads with mechanical precision whilst a lead-
ing lady sang something quite foreign to the character
she was supposed to represent. But the nodding chorus
has got to go. Its long night is closing.
Kilpatrick, manager for Ohefalo, who loops the loop,
is back from Java w'ith the opinion that it is “no place
to cut ice in.”
NOT BINDING.
Though we have entered a Federation we have never by
word or deed consented to unification.— ARGUS.
“Shurrcnly I shined the plezsh. Well (hie)
wharrathat? ”
The executor of the estates of Messrs. Dan and Tom
Fitzgerald writes: “ With regard to your paragraph in
the issue of 26/7/’O6, the part of Fitzgerald Bros’, plant
which is being sold consists of surplus material belong-
ing to Dan Fitzgerald’s branch of the show, left behind
when the big Eastern show was fitted out in 1905 for Tom
Fitzgerald’s second Eastern trip. The Eastern show is in
Madras at present, but returns shortly, and Mrs. Tom
Fitzgerald is in Europe engaging novelties with which to
open in Melbourne at Cup time, in the permanent build-
ing. The old house flag will fly once more about that
time. Her Von der Mehden, bandmaster and director,
will shortly be on his way to Australia from San Fran-
cisco to manage, and many of the old managing men will
be seen in their customary places, though there will be
notable absentees, such as Frank Jones, the advance
agent, old ‘ Billy ’ Jones, the ringmaster, and ‘Baddy’
Montgomery, the skilful trainer of horses.”
Among the farcical comedies that Australia has seen
“The Dictator” is unique. It is educational in its fancy
picture of Spanish South American Republican covern-
menl, and the local importance of the United States
Consul. And it offers an entire new and humorous sug-
gestion of the possibilities of wireless telegraphy.
E. I. Cole, who calls himself “The Bohemian,” and
sells large quantities of theatrical sensation and gore at
very low rates, recently gave an audience some alleged
facts about N.S.W. politicians. Cole was doing big business
at a theatre opposite Sydney railway station when he was
forced to close down because he didn’t possess a license.
He wandered about the suburbs for some time, and later
went to considerable expense in constructing the
present theatre at the Haymarket, on the understanding
that his application for a license would be successful.
But when everything was completed, the necessary
license was not forthcoming. Then Cole raged round
with his back hair blowing in the breeze, interviewing
M’s.P. and other things. The M’s.P., he said, “cost a
little fortune in presents of boxes of cigars,” and did
absolutely nothing to help him out of the difficulty. One,
he averred “charged ss. per interview', and he frequently
called three times a day.” Names, please.
“J.”: Re Kreitmeyer’s Waxworks (B. 21/6/’O6). The
late Kreitmeyer was not the founder of the waxw'orks
show which carries his name in Melbourne. In the fifties,
a stout little woman, Mrs. Williams by name, established
the show in Kyte’s Buildings, opposite the Eastern Mar-
kets, an upstairs room. She carried on for some years
under her own name, and then married a phrenologist
named Sohier. The Sohiers carried on the show
until bought out by Kreitmeyer. (Sohier w r as drowned
in the Royal Charter or some such wreck.) Mrs.
Williams was an up-to-date wax artist. One of her
big draws was a group of Mrs. Scott, Julian Cross (a
negro), and David Gedge, the lover of Mrs. Scott, executed
in November, 1863, for the murder of the woman’s hus-
band, Robert Scott, a shanty-keeper, near Mansfield.
Scott was in bed with delirium tremens when he was
shot by the negro at the instance of the others. Mrs.
Scott was a handsome young woman, and Gedge but a
youth. Being the first woman in danger of the gallows,
great efforts were made to save her, but Governor Charles
Darling could hardly respite the woman and hang the
men, and he was firm on hanging the men. Fearing a dis-
turbance, on the Governor’s refusal to reprieve, the execu-
tion took place half-an-hour before the advertised time.
Most of the fine work for Mrs. Williams’ Waxworks was
done by Mr. John Campbell, now living in “dignified
ease ”at Burwood, Sydney. Mr. Campbell at one time
travelled Tasmania with “ wax Aggers,” and opened a big
show of waxworks in Sydney, in Uther’s Buildings, Pitt-
street, where now stands the Imperial Arcade.
For, possibly, the second time in Australian stage
history, Shylock has been played by a Jew. On
Saturday night, the N.S.W. Public Service Amateur
Dramatic Club produced the “ Merchant of Venice,” with
Mr. Victor Cohen as the Jew. Half a century ago the
Jew boy. Master Pole, the Australian Roscius, essayed the
part in Melbourne, and snuffled and shuffled through it
without mishap. On Monday, a gentleman with a Scotch
name, Stanley McKay, essayed the part, and divided
honors with Mr. Cohen.
Some fashionable amateurs wrote to Beerbohm Tree,
lately, asking if they could get up his version of “ The
Three Musketeers ”in three weeks. He replied that they
could, but it would take his own company three months.
The level-headed man when aflame with
explosive feelings doesn’t erupt raging remarks.
He consults D.C.L. whisky and devises effectual
action. Level-headedness and common sense are
the younger brothers of Wisdom, and D.C.L. is
their best friend. It provides that optimistic
spirit which is never cast down and rageth not at
large.*
THE ABSENT ONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our brightest ones have left us,
Aye, London’s fog and gloom
Have, one by one, bereft us
Of fairest bud and bloom.
And yet when night is falling,
With weary words of pain,
I hear Australia calling
Her children home again.
The land which they were born in
Could find no use for them
(Oh ! Thankless land to mourn in
For Fame’s bright diadem !).
Their hopes, long reft asunder
Had sent them far to roam ;
Yet do they hear, I wonder,
The voice that calls them home ?
We wander debt and doubtward
(I write it to our shame),
And when they drifted outward
We’d but ourselves to blame.
But oh ! our hearts are beating,
And fierce the old fires burn,
Till all the land’s entreating
Its children to return.
N.S.W.
GILROONRY.


Furred vSßins
Rabbit vSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNMENTS TO-
HILL CLARK <& CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY,
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89c* FBG St. Martin, Paris, Frarce
ĥ
CITY •
Positions
secured by Postal [T
Tuition in Business
Subjects.
‘ Home Study ’ Post Free.
Stott & Hoare’s Busi-
ness College, Sydney
ħ
Society
AN UNSATISFAGTORY PLACK.
MISTRESS : “ But, bless me, why are you leaving
us, Mary? I'm sure I do all the work."
THE GENERAL SERVANT : “ Yes, ma'am, but I
don't like the way you do it."
The grovelsome cable informed Australia,
last week, that a British address of sympathy with
the political aspirations of the Russian nation had
been signed by several distinguished persons, in-
cluding George Meredith, William Watson, and
Brassey. Coming to the name of “ Uncle Tom,”
in this connection, and remembering how his
eccentric old leg used to play strange tricks with
him, one naturally exclaims, “O, what a falling
off is there ! ”
Federal members have been jumping on
Dead wood Dick literature of late, and goading the
conscientious Postmaster-General to refuse to
transmit by post the raw bones and gore
literature of the Penny Dreadful. But what
about the Sixpenny Dreadful at home ? Here is
r r j t * ames Fairfax’s advertisement, in the Herald
of July 25, of the gallery of horrors Australian
families can stare at in his weekly :
A large portrait of the boy murderer.
Sergeant Kane, who arrested Brown.
Constable Brown, the first policeman on the scene of
the murder.
Constables Ryan and Miles, who took an active part in
the pursuit.
Miss O’Keefe, who with her brother discovered the
bodies.
Timothy O’Keefe, who was attacked by Brown with an
axe.
Police-Magistrate Adrian, who presided with the
Coroner at the inquest.
Rear view of the O’Keefes’ cottage, showing where the
bodies of the men were found.
View of the kitchen, where the murders took place.
Sub-inspector Evans and Sergeant Reid, who conducted
the case for the police.
A large snapshot of Brown in a defiant attitude.
A front view of the O’Keefe residence, showing a pretty
country home.
A snapshot-taken from a train—of the spot where
Brown was arrested.
Brown, handcuffed, going into Ballina police-court.
The place where the body of Mrs. O’Keefe was found.
A picture showing Gillick’s room and the spot where
Brown attacked Timothy O’Keefe.
One feature of the illustrated horror should at
least be trodden upon hard, and that is the
picture in which a big X shows where the
corpse was found. The yearning to know the
exact spot where the corpse was found is un-
healthy.
« » • *
Victoria’s quaint P.M., Murphy, the fear-
some beak who once had some youths stripped and
flogged in his presence in court, has had another
eruption. A Shepparton old-age pensioner, con-
victed of a case of “ language,” he ordered to pay
the impossible fine of £2 or go to gaol for 21 days.
1 hat meant the risk of losing his pension ; but
the P.M. settled all doubts by recommending its
confiscation. In the next case a man admitted
playing cards all night with a porter in a railway
office, and then stealing four tickets, worth about
£1 each. Mr. Murphy ordered him two days’
hard labor. To a witness who had prevaricated
somewhat Mr. Murphy then handed one hour’s
imprisonment for contempt of court; but, after
thinking the matter over, this amazing beak re-
called the culprit and told him that, as his
offence was manifestly intentional, he would give
him two hours. “Two hours” for contempt of
Murphy—well, Mr. Murphy knows himself better
than this paper thought he did.
* * * *
The municipality of Camperdown (Sydney)
is not a good place to live in. It has the bailiff in.
This fact is causing unrest in about 39 other
municipalities which have borrowed to such an
extent that Mo and Cohenstein address the aider-
men by their Christian names. And many of the
39 are only existing in the hope that there may
not be enough bailiffs to
go round. There are dis-
ad v antages about h a vin g
the bailiff in. Some
time ago Camperdown
had a golden oppor-
tunity of getting out of
its difficulties by tacking
itself on to the city, and,
incidentally, laying the
foundation of a Greater
Sydney. The city was
willing and waiting.
The result of a referen-
dum of the people of
Camperdown was a
sweeping majority in
favor of amalgamation.
But, at a subsequent
meeting of aldermen, a
majority of these august
beings decided to let the
matter drop as it meant
“the confiscation of
’earths an’ ’ornes,” etc.
Then one of the wards,
which had voted almost
solidly in favor of ab-
sorption, discovered
that it was entitled to
twice the representation
of the other two, and
that if it had the full
measure of that repre-
sentation the absorp-
tionists would hold the
majority in the Council.
The Government was
approached, with the
result that a proclama-
tion was issued sub-
dividing the ward, &c.
The rate-payers were
jubilant, but they had
reckoned without their
bailiff. And he was a
truculent bailiff, who,
in addition to having
the run of the kitchen
and the use of the cooking utensils, took
charge of the working expenses and refused to
allow any money to be expended on an election
in the new ward. Thus he practically vetoed a
Government proclamation. He is a superior
bailiff, and draws a percentage (amounting to
oyer £3OO per annum) on the rates collected for
him by the council clerk and handed over to him
for safe keeping. And, as the aldermen have now
nothing to do but dance attendance on the bailiff,
they ought to retire at once.
* * * *
A case tried at Richmond (Melb.) police
court, last week, revealed the fact that a lady
canvasser for a firm of jewellers was hawking their
goods around town on a salary of 2s. 6d. per day
and expenses. A bitter commentary on the
question as to why women workers don’t save
money out of their wages.
A PUBLIC SERVANT.
A Victorian woman school-teacher has lately been heard of who had to entirely maintain herself
on her official salary—some 10s. a week. It will yet come to this.
Melbourne had a fine example last week
of the blind, halt and lame method of working
beats that its policemen are compelled to adopt.
A man got off a tram in the heart of the city and
fell down in a dead or dying condition. Someone
ran for a bobby, and found one 100yds. away.
But his beat extended only to within 10yds. of
where the man lay, and he wasn’t allowed to
go off his beat. The constable of the beat
which the fallen man occupied was trudging
away from the spot, and was not due back for
a long time as his beat extended nearly to Ben-
digo. The first constable explained that he
wouldn’t mind taking the man to the hospital and
infringing the regulations by going on to another
bobby’s area, only he had to meet his officer in a
quarter of an hour, and there would be no end of
a row if the officer came and found him missing.
It was 15 minutes before anybody was in a position
to do anything, and it Was 43 minutes before the cop
whose territory the invalid had fallen on turned
tip, pervading the long miles of his path of duty.
What with the constables being aged, underpaid,
dissatisfied, ill-governed, and very scarce, Mel-
bourne has mostly to take care of itself these
days. ■
“ W.P.8.” : It can’t be expected that a
railway-ticket fellow should know everything-.
Neither does he —the ignorant beast. Waiting,
the other day, at a country railway-station
to purchase a ticket, a person who looked
like a cutting from a comic paper said,
in accents haughty, that he wanted a return
ticket to somewhere, as well as one for his
caddy. The ignorant ticket person said
“What?” in quite an excited tone.
The comic-paper man said, “Mai
caddy.” I knew the man in charge of
the tickets wanted to ask what in all
the Vale of Jehosaphat he was talk-
ing about, but he didn’t. He said,
“ Your caddy ? What’s that ? ” Such
appalling ignorance was to be re-
gretted, and to save him I shrieked,
“The rooster carrying the golf-
sticks.” The man with the tickets
understood, and the comic man re-
tired backwards through the crowd,
with a caddy’s ticket grasped bravely.
Fancy not knowing what a caddy is !
The emotional display at the opening of
N.S.W. Supreme Court came as a surprise.
Judge Owen was the last man to be suspected of
weepy tendencies. Yet, upon the slight provoca-
tion of the hard, commonplace speech of Attorney-
General Wade-a mere string of trite congratula-
tion on the knighthood—the Judge quite broke
up, and interrupted his reply by audible sobs.
Chief Justice Darley was also visiblv affected by
the emotion of his colleague, and wiped his nose
more than once. But Justice G. B. Simpson is
accustomed in his Court to the airing of all the
emotions—from the tenderest love to the most
brutal pursuit of damages from the co-respondent
That might account for the hardened, uninterested
look of the Divorce Judge while his colleagues
were sniffing.
• » * *
Quaint tail-end of a death notice in Mel-
bourne Age *
Life is a cheat, and a uselessly interrupting episode in
the blissful repose of nothing. H
Yet if no one ever lived how could anybody-
there not being anybody-know tl.at there was
nothing? And how could there be blissful repose
when there was nobody to repose ?
The Ballarat aldermen’s recent anxiety to
shunt the Burke and Wills statue to make room
for the farm-burners’ memorial has got on to the
nerves of some of the gold-fields pioneers, who
pipe querulously that there is no hope for them
being remembered nowadays. So four of the old-
timers, seeing that, in spite of their eccentricities,
they are half-forgotten already, have hedged
against utter oblivion by ordering their tomb-
stones, which now; lie engraved with more or less
suitable epitaphs in four vacant lots in the ceme-
tery. One, more enterprising still, is super-
intending the making of his coffin.
* # # •
In a dispute over a boundary, Justice
Hodges, of Victoria, has made a unique prece-
dent by admitting the evidence of an imbecile
witness. This was the first town surveyor of
Fitzroy, who is at present an inmate of Kew
Hospital for Mental Diseases, suffering from
senile decay. The old gentleman's memory of
present happenings is quite untrustworthy, but his
recollections of events long gone by is still reliable,
and he proved a lucid and intelligible witness. It
is a precedent that the La\y will carefully treasure
up as a valuable provider of Costs in years to
come.
SHE KNEW.
CISSY : “ You musn’t make a noise, Tommy .
there's company in the next room."
TOMMY : "Mow do you know?"
CISSY : “ Because mamma keeps calling papa
‘ My love.'"
one can sifc a lon § while in the Divorcs
Court and still escape knowing a few things about
human nature. The lady in the Dailey divorce
suit the other day asked for a permanent £l5O a
j,. , ,
year 5 and tlie more ° r IeSS ex - h,lsband objected
to P ay tbat much on tlie ground that, one way
and another > hls income was now cut down to a
° ver £4OO a year. Then the other side
a & a,n dug up the “other lady/’ and alleged that
s [ ie was costing £l5O a year at least—which, by
the way, looks very little for any “other lady”
to cost. y llt Justice Simpson smacked his lips
a , said that if a man could spend £l5O a year on
f . lady who wasn,t llis wlf e, it was pretty certain
income was more than £4OO a year. A Judge
who had never been m the Divorce Court m his life,
but who had had something to do in other courts,
might have a suspicion that a man doesn’t acquire
another lady because he can afford her; somehow
J? USUalIy ac< J uires h( ; r . firBt ’ a T nd tots up the bill
afterwards. Apparently the Judge’s idea is that
g ldd y boss rings up his accountants and asks
7 heth ?. r 1 the business can stand another
?J? burban vllla > or an extra P erch ln the Hotel
enus ‘
SNOBS.
[FOR THE BULLETI N.]
Mr. Reid dwelt upon the prevailing snobbishness of
those who had risen from the ranks of Labor, and he
declared that the men and women who had risen to high
positions in society were the most unjust in their treat-
ment, of the working people.— Report of a Reid meeting
m North Queensland.
i ; That’s Joe !
George is talking of his mate,
Joseph Cook, the man ingrate
Who was rescued from his job
Trucking in the Mother State.
George has struck it on the nob
When he styles Joe Cook a snob.
Just so 1
That’s Joe.
That’s Joe !
Georgie brings him now to book
Whom the Labor party took
From the levels of the mine—
Made him “ Mr. Joseph Cook,”
Gave him plates whereon to dine •
And he voted Labor, when
Ho was fresh and poor, and then
Went below—
That’s Joe.
That’s George 1
Office hungry ; hear him sob
As he talks of Joe the Snob,
Whom he bribed with “ Yes and No ” ;
Whom he tempted with a job
And with a portfolio
(All the ancient Tory lies
How they quickly cause to rise
Our gorge)—
That’s George !
That’s Joe 1
Hear his leader ticket him,
Fora snob, the pseudonym—
Lifted from a trucking job
In the sweltering mine and dim ;
Then a rise, and lo ! the snob
Joe ! arisen from the mob !
Just so !
That’s Joe!
RANDOLPH.
THE MODERN PRODIGAL SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The prodigal sons in the olden days
To the distant countries went their ways,
And they played it down with a vigor fine,
With the flighty girls and the giddy swine,
While the frugal sons, indisposed to roam,
Kemained, and they fattened the calves at home.
To-day ’tis the son of the frugal mind
Who goes with the seekers his bread to find,
The prodigal lingers to loaf and laugh
At home, where he drinks up the fatted calf!
VIC.
SILAS SEELL.


10 Per Cent. DISCOUNT
2s♦ in the
Pound
ALLOWED OFF
r WALKING SUITS
SAC SUITS
- DRESS SUITS
FROCK SUITS
TROUSERS
For 14 DAYS ONLY.
Patterns,
Forms
Fashions and Measurement
POST FREE.
R. C. HAGON, Merchant Ta.ior, 129 King' St., Sydney.
A dramatic cause celebre has just come to
its final stage in the Commonwealth High Court.
‘‘Tom” Hay, once known as the pugnacious
organiser and general secretary of the Austra-
lasian Ships’ Engineers, was, after 14 years’ ser-
vice, retired from his office by the General Con-
ference. Neither he nor his friends were satisfied,
and explanations were demanded. They came in
the form of a report charging him with temper and
other minor offences. As this was not a conclusive
reason in the opinion of a rather hot-tempered
body of men, charges of a more serious character
were afterwards put forward. Then Hay began a
long struggle for redress. The stronger his claim
to an enquiry the hotter became the charges,
though they were vaguely expressed, being mostly
winks and nods and statements that he ought to
be " barred from the society of honest men for the
rest of his life.” He was suspended and then ex-
pelled. Finally, a Board of arbitration was ap-
pointed, consisting of three outsiders —an account-
ant, a banker, and a barrister. After sitting four
months, the Board found Hay’s honesty and in-
tegrity completely vindicated, but thought he, and
the others as well, had been hot-headed and in-
judicious. The finding of the Board went before
the Conference of the Institute, and in the face of
it, that body passed a resolution declaring that
the charges of dishonesty had been “ found
against him ” —instead of in his favor as the facts
showed. Hay, in the meantime, worn out by the
five years’ struggle, had a stroke of paralysis,
and the Conference, in view of this, added
a rider to its resolution to the effect that “con-
sidering his affliction, and as a matter of clem-
ency and grace, it recommended liis re-
storation to membership.” This brought the
pugnacious unionist back from the grave, and he
brought his first action against one of the drafts-
men of the resolution. After a big fight barrister
Ferguson got him a verdict for £2OO0 —the full
amountclaimed—a rare thingin defamation actions.
The verdict was defeated by the defendant quit-
ting the jurisdiction of the court. Then Hay pro-
ceeded against the Union itself, on the Tatf Vale
decision that a union can be held answerable for
the acts of its agents. Again a jury gave Hay a
verdict for £l5OO. N.S.W. Supreme Court re-
versed this on a point of law, and the High Court
upheld the Supreme Co irt (the first decision
upheld out of 11). Thus -lay stands in the posi-
tion of having his character vindicated by a
private Board of arbitration, and by two juries,
of being awarded the enormous verdicts of £2OOO
and £l5OO, and in the end having the melancholy
consolation of paying all his own costs, and, in
the appeals, the costs of the other side as well.
HIS LABEL.
“ On the contrary, my dear, my wife says I am an excellent husband .”
“ Yes! I know the sort —too good to be true."
“ Gip ” : Re the Lancet on the bar girl
(B. 12/7/’O6). It’s the handy stimulant, that’s the
trouble. “Feeling of malaise.” I should say so.
Silk-hatted, senile old men who bore her to death ;
middle-aged, bloated bounders who spin her re-
pellent yarns (it’s the bar-girl can appreciate a
clean man when she meets one); imbecile, straw-
hatted youths, who hang about making goo-goo
eyes till midnight. And she, with a smile and a
laugh for them all—her real self thrust aside, her
burning contempt choked back. Day or night,
well or ill, always smiling, always amiably ready
to listen, to the drivel of decadent man. That’s
thebar-girl’s game. Is it any wonder she tries to
deaden the boredom of it all ? Is it any wonder
she takes a stimulant ? A habit formed thus care-
lessly, perhaps, in its cursed way, hangs to her for
the rest of her days. The handy stimulant! The
bar-girl’s one great big, temptation. Man a tempta-
tion ? Man’s a blessed BOBE !
* * ♦ *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
under the Patronage of Lord Northeote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
THE DEVOURER.
TOM : “Any tarts left, mum?”
MOTHER : “ Yes, there are two in the safe; and don’t you dare touch them."
TOM : “Oh, I've had those."
When Tommy Bent foolishly called the
gaseous Bendigo parson, the Rev. 11. Worrall,
before the bar of the House for “proving,” by a
process of clerical ratiocination, that Attorney-
General Gillott was guilty of the slaying of Don
McLeod, at Flemington, that excellent man rushed
off to a local anti-grogshivoo, with the telegram in
his hand, rejoicing in a big advertisement, and with
tears in his tones, lie declared before all men : “ Oh,
God, I thank Thee because Thou hast permitted
me to come into the fellowship of Thy suffering ! ”
Martyrs are cheap and easy nowadays. And
then—the bathos of it! —Bev. Worry asked for a
special first-class reserved compartment to convey
him to the stake, and a police escort to protect
him against the imaginary fury of the gambling
community, which doesn’t know him from an old
hen, and wouldn’t give him a second glance if it
did know him. Also, so little did Mr. Worry
expect to be kept in Melbourne and fried for his
iniquity in the basement of Parliament House,
that he asked for the compartment to be reserved
for his return to Bendigo. The martyr—unlike
Latimer and Bidley, who didn’t come back—was
quite sure about his prompt return. Finally he
worked up the frenzy to the point of getting a
special train to take him and 300 sympathisers to
Melbourne, and on Sunday, when he delivered his
special sermon about his coming martyrdom, he
brought two handkerchiefs to weep into, and wept
into both of them.
One Sydney shopkeeper prosecuted five
women on one day last week for “shoplifting.”
In each ease the accused had a reputation that
was fairly respectable, and in four out of five the
ar ti c le lifted was too trumpery to be worth the
. . , , -r, t e -
rlsk of S aoL But the P lckln S U P of unconsidered
trifles seems to be a positive disease with the type
of woman whose dearest haunt of pleasure is the
bargain counter of a rag emporium. One big
r-,? raB '“ n “ •**•? “ t d “‘ ** ; M r
shoplifters in summary jurisdiction. The offender
is summoned into his private sanctum and given
the option of prosecution or of submitting to
some humiliating experience. The Bulletin has
endeavored, without success, to obtain, not
necessarily for publication, a full list of “the
humiliating experiences ” aforesaid. But it tran-
spires (as the police court reports put it) that on
one occasion the lady had to swallow a whole box
of somebody’s pills, worth a guinea a box. She
submitted with the worst grace, and, escaping, re-
paired to the nearest chemist’s, secured an emetic,
and returned the valuable pills on the drapery
emperor’s threshold. After that incident he
revised his list of humiliating experiences.
One of those Gippsland cow-punchers who
fatten on child slavery got part of his reward the
other day. To mind his house, his cows and his
pigs, etc., etc., the farmer employed a widow with
a little girl of 13 and her younger brother. On a
recent Sunday afternoon—the child slaves of the
cow know no day of rest—the girl (of 13 !) was
going to milk the cows, and stopped to watch her
little brother playing. The farmer —one Beeves—
came behind the child and kicked her, then
snatched the pail away (apparently he didn’t
want to knock holes in his property) and kicked
her again. On the following Friday he told her
to fill a boiler before she went to school. She
pleaded that she was too sore and ill to do so,
whereupon he got a stockwhip and flogged her.
She ran to her mother, but he followed and flogged
both her and her mother with the whip and the
handle. Eventually she ran outside, but Beeves
followed and flogged her till she got away.” A
doctor said the child had sixteen wounds on
her body, both weals and cuts, and was also
suffering severely from shock. The mother had
also been badly knocked about. Yet this brutal
child-beater didn’t trouble to attend the court;
he merely wrote to the mother, saying he thought
the case had better be withdrawn ! Probably he
would have been right had the usual honorarium
been on the bench, but an indignant police magis-
trate ordered Beeves to gaol for six months’ hard
labor, as soon as he could be arrested and put
there. If the child slavery that goes on in the
dairying districts of Australia isn’t stopped, the
time will soon come when it will be necessary to
make it a criminal offence to employ anyone
under 16 on a dairy-farm at any work whatsoever.
It is impossible to discriminate between civilised
people and savages away in the bush —but this
child slavery has to be stopped.
* * * ■*
The people of uneasy virtue hereabouts
will have another plank for their platform next
summer. Yankee Social Gimletists are just now
conducting a furious crusade against the “peek-a-
boo ” blouse—that tricky combination of open-
work clothing and soft, warm, pink girl which
Australia knows so well and appreciates so
deeply. The name “ peek-a-boo” was evolved by
the New York World from the late Charles
Arnold’s song “Peek-a-boo, I see you hiding
there”—the theory being that the lady is more
visible than might be supposed. A courageous
girl who ventured, wearing a peek-a-boo blouse of
the peekiest. description, into a church where a
’Murican edition of Judkins was declaiming was
ordered by the foaming pastor to go home and
“ take off that bathing dress.” Whether she was
to return without it, he omitted to explain. When
Judkins gets going in the warm months on the
subject of the “peek-a-boo” blouse, and goes into
details about the amount of soft, warm, pink girl
that is visible through it, the collection should be
almost enough to shift the public debt.
At Castlemaine (Vic.) Sessions, last week,
Judge Chomley awarded 12 months to a white
miner who had slipped his handcuffs while
being escorted to gaol, and was recaptured
after a healthy chase without doing anybody
any injury, or even damaging his ironmon-
gery. In the next case, a yellow alien was
convicted of indecently assaulting a little
girl of 10, and was also awarded 12 months. Now,
did those two men get the same punishment be-
cause indecently assaulting a baby of 10 is no
more serious than making a dash for freedom ?
Or was something taken off the baby-assaulter’s
punishment because he happened to be yellow ?
In the latter case, will Judge Chomley please say
whether he would regard it as any more of an
honor for one of his own relations to be indecently
assaulted by a Chinaman than by a white man ?
• * * *
In a military canteen, as in a private pub.,
whisky sold by the bottle should be cheaper than
whisky sold by the glass. But if, as is most
definitely stated, at the Queenscliff (Vic ) canteen,
under Major Hawker, an officer could get a bottle
of whisky at 4s. whilst a gunner was charged
ss. 4d., it represents a grave scandal about which
the Department should do things.
★ * * *
The survivors of M'Douall Stuart’s ex-
ploration party—the first which crossed Australia
from south to north—dined together in Adelaide
last week to celebrate the 44th anniversary of the
day when the expedition reached the coast of
North Australia, and the leader waded in and
annexed the waters, and hoisted the Union Jack
on the shore. The survivors have held their
annual feed regularly since 1883. Only four are
left now, though, considering that the party which
started in January, 18G2, only numbered 10, they
must have been a tough lot to show four still on
deck. The remnant consists of W. P. Auld,
F. W. Thring, S. King and H. Nash. Among
the relics passed round for examination at the
dinner was a sample of the dried horseflesh used
for food on the journey, and there was real damper
instead of bread to remind the ancients of bygone
days.
• • • •
A Bairnsdale (Vic.) citizen is just now
saying insulting things about the Law. A man
who owed him £8 7s. 6d. removed to a distant
part of the State. He summoned him and got a
verdict in the other’s absence, but he didn’t
get any money. Then the Law said he
must summon him again to explain why he
shouldn’t be dealt with for not paying on the
first order, and must send him “conduct nionev.”
He sent it, £5 of it; whereupon the debtor
promptly paid the £5 and another £3 7s. Gd. into
court, and went round placidly remarking that it
was the cheapest way to pay old debts he had yet
run against. The Law has told the Bairnsdale
man that it can do nothing about the £5 conduct
money, even though it was given to cover travel-
ling expenses that were never incurred. To get
it hack he must start a fresh action, and send
more conduct money. That debtor now gets wild
at the very mention of conduct money.
* * * *
With a photo of Mrs. Thaw, formerly
Florence Nesbit, artists’ model and chorus girl,
as her text, Miss M'Cabe writes in the Cosmo-
politan, on poor American girls who marry
millions. Bose Pastor, a Bussian cigarette maker,
married J. G. Phelps, millionaire. V iolet Oakley,
type-writer, gathered in millionaire Jerome
Alexander. Anna Bennett, telephonist, hooked
the great Whitney, and is a widow with twenty
million dollars. Her friend, Ida Schwindt, also a
telephonist, through her introduction roped in
Bernard Seaton, millionaire, of Florida. May
Connors, a switchboard operator at a Philadelphia
hotel, lassooed T. P. Stokes, millionaire.
Margaret Harrington, telephonist at a New York
hotel, commandeered J. A. Coram, worth ten
million dollars. Miss Leslie Green, a penniless
student, made happy H. E. Huntington, one
of the richest men on earth. Mary Beece, sales-
woman and machinist, captured H. Bigelow, son
of tthe “Copper King.” Sal lie Carr, salesgirl,
harpooned F. Skinner, Boston millionaire. Marian
Knight, a shoemaker’s daughter, fished out F. C.
Bradlee, another millionaire of Boston. The
Cosmopolitan proceeds, writing just before the
Thaw tragedy
The struggle for social position which Florence Evelyn
Nesbit is still making in the home of her millionaire
husband, Mr. Harry Kendall Thaw, brother of Alice, the
Countess of Yarmouth, is a curious commentary Upon
the ways of democracy. Born in Pittsburg, she came in
the first flush of girlhood to New York to make her
fortune. Her face was her talisman, and when nob
behind the footlights in “thinking parts,” she was em-
ployed as a model by illustrators for trade and fashion
journals, at a wage that would not keep the average
chorus girl in violets.
It was in the original “Florodora” sestet that Florence
Evelyn Nesbit first attracted public attention. While in
the glamor it diffused she met young Thaw. With an
annual income of 80,000 dollars, he was the ideal gilded
youth finding favor wherever he chose. His fidelity to
the chorus girl happily terminated in a marriage which
his family was forced to recognise.
And before that printed gush was quite dry on
the page, young Thaw of the 80,000 dollars a year
made a horrible splash in an opera house with the
vitals of another millionaire, who alleged that he
used to pay for the beauty-woman’s clothes before
her husband started to keep her in boots and
skirts.
* * * *
Make never mock of cold nor cough—
They danger spell, however slightly ;
Nor e’er esteem it quite enough
To treat the primal symptoms lightly.
Consider, ere you money spend,
To buy but mixtures safe and sure—
Remember one—and recommend
The worth of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A SAGE REFLECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coffin containing the remains of the late Mr.
Russell Sage, the New York millionaire, was buried in a
steel case, four inches thick, and weighing three tons.
I’m of the proletariat
Whom some folk hold in scorn,
And have to battle “ on me pat ”
Through being lowly born 1
And yet I don’t like sneering at
A nice white vest and black cravat;
The billet of a plutocrat
I feel I might adorn !
Please don’t suppose I’ve “ got a rat ”
Or feel my fate forlorn
Because a shiny black silk hat
I never yet have worn 1
Though I was born a humble brat
And not a gay aristocrat,
I really do not “ whip the cat ”
Nor am I anguish-torn 1
It has been said the lean and fat,
The high and lowly born,
Will all have equal chances at
The Resurrection Morn !
The man who said so was a flat—
A Juggins talking through his hat!
For, how will Sage get Out of that
When Gabriel blows his horn }
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODES.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St M SYDNEY APPUANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY Por * ab,e Engine*, Tractions, Thrashers, Hifch Speeds, Vertical and
' Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Haywa-d’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining: Requisites, &c., &c.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Director.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
One of the actions of the sham Reform Govern-
ment in N.S.VV. was the establishment of a bogus sinking
fund; and Treasurer Carruthers is represented as the
financial genius who begins to pay off the public debt,
whereas, as a matter of fact, the statutory payments
which he provided for are actually less than the repay-
ments which his predecessors were making. The biggest
sham in connection with the whole business is, however,
in regard to the character of the sinking fund. It isn’t
a sinking fund at all. A sinking fund is a snowball
which goes on growing, first by interest accumulations,
secondly by periodical payments of principal. It
is announced, however, that “since the State
Debt Commissioners came into existence they
have applied a large proportion of the funds at their
disposal towards redemptions. On Dec. 31 last they paid
off Treasury deficiency bills to the extent of £150,000,”
and so on until £524,000 have been paid off, including
£224,000 4 per cent, debentures which had been current
for 30 years. If the State Debt Commissioners pay off
debt, and it then ceases to carry interest, in 40 years, re-
deeming at the rate of £400,000 a year, the public debt
will be reduced by £16,000,000. In the 41st year the
State will pay in £400,000, but it will be relieved of
£560,000 of interest. But if the sinking fund is a real
sinking fund, and the State goes on paying interest on the
full amount until the whole debt is wiped out: if, instead
of paying the interest to Cohen, it pays the interest to
the State Debt Commissioners on that part of the debt
which they have bought back from Cohen, then, in 40
years, the fund will amount to £33,820,000, even if the
fund’s earnings only average per cent. In 40 years,
therefore, the difference between Carruthers’ bogus sink-
ing fund and a true sinking fund will amount to
£17,820,600.
• * * *
In consequence cn “Reformer” Carruthers’
action in grabbing the surplus revenue of the Sydney
Water and Sewerage Board, and usin# it to help make a
mostly-bogus surplus, instead of turning it into a sinking
fund for the repayment of Cohen, the Board has decided
to reduce the rates so as not to have any surplus in the
future. From 1898 to 1904 the Board paid £55,903 into
the Treasury in excess of interest, &c.; in 1904-5, £54,178;
1905-6, £73,150. It apparently wouldn’t have objected
to go on providing this surplus if the money had been
ear-marked for the reduction of the capital debt
on its own works; but as the surplus was sim-
ply treated as so much general revenue, and
used to make a halo for J. Carruthers, the
.Board jumped at the excuse to adopt a plan which always
commends itself to short-sighted Proputty—the reduc-
tion of rates. So, for the future, the Board, having cut
things as fine as it knows how, will probably often only
escape a deficit by starvingthe works that want repairs;
and it won’t have anything in the shape of a general de-
preciation or renewal fund ; and when so-called perma-
nent works require renewal, the renewals will have to be
paid for out of borrowed money, and the additions will
have to be charged to capital account. When that hap-
pens interest will have to be paid on two lots of debt,
lepresented by one lot of works, and the rates will have
to be jumped up accordingly. The Board which delibe-
rately adopts a policy that must end in that ought to be
ashamed of itself; and the “Reform” party, whose
Premier gave the Board an excuse for doing it, ought to
he ashamed of its champion. There is evidently no hope
of the champion being ashamed of himself.
.** * •
Until Kidston arrived at the Queensland Trea-
sury the “ central ” sugar mills placidly ran into debt to
the State, and several of them made no visible effort to
Pay interest, let alone sinking fund contribution. It
came as a bitter surprise to them when the State fore-
closed, in the interests of the tax-payers who had backed
the bill, and put in Dr. Maxwell to- run the business.
1 Living ascertained that there is no humbug about the
Treasury in these days, and that a debt is now regarded
there as something that has to be paid, one of them, the
Pleystowe, has raised the money, and paid off the Go-
vernment. Three years ago this and other similar debts
ooked quite hopeless ; but that was when the amiable
' "lip wa « } n power. Now Kidston, without adding a
penny to the State’s debt, can build a few miles more of
the Cloneurry and other railways that would probably
have remained unbuilt for years if Queensland had not
changed its political brand.
Australian banks have swallowed their differ-
ences of opinion about the effect of “ outsiders’ ” eompe-
tition, and have at last agreed to put up the rates of
foreign exchange.
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Queensland :
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
June,’oo £8,384 2£ p.c. = £5056 £3500 £4B 423
Dec.,’oo 8,434 2i „ „ 6056 £3378 SLBOI-
- 01 8,657 2l „ ~ 5056 3601 55,402
Dec., ’Ol 8,758} j6OBO 3000 55,080
June,’o2 9,024 3* „ ~ 6700 2324 57 404
Dec., ’O2 8,646 V 1 7223 1423 58,827
June,’o3 9,052 31 f „ ~ 7227 - 1825 60 652
Dec.,’o3 9,455 ] 1.7227 2228 62 880
June,’o4 9,182 3Jt „ „ 8422 760 63,640
Dec., ’O4 9,569 31 ~ ~ 8427 1142 64 782
June,’os 9,673 3£ „ „ 8463 1210 65 992
Dec., ’O5 9,896 31 „ „ 8468 1428 67 420
June,’o6 10,016 31 „ „ 8468 1548 68,968
‘Ordinary shares, t Preference shares.
This time two years ago shares in this bank were quoted
at 565. ; now sales have been made at 955. As the
same dividend was paid then as now, the dif-
ference shows the change of fueling that has come over
the northern State, though, according to all the political
prophets, these bank shares should by this time have been
given away with a pound of tea, in spite of the good sea-
sons that Queensland is having. Yet, so far, the disclosed
profits of the bank show no very marked improvement
It works mainly in the south of the State ; and, unfor-
tunately, there, though the butter business has made
remarkable progress of late, natural expansion is, in many
of the best districts, blocked by tbe big, idle landlord
Possibly larger profits might have been shown; one, in
fact, would reasonably expect them. But the past has
revealed that, so long as an insufficient tariff compels
Queensland to depend on its “ great natural resources,”
many contingencies have to be provided for. It is possible
to provide for them openly by reserves ; but shareholders
in the Royal appear to be extra-greedy for dividends—
anyhow, the dividend has been put up every time there was
enough extra profit shown to divide. It is possible
therefore, that a prudent management has now provided
for contingencies from the inside. But, assuming that the
profits have been just what the accounts set out, they
still show a healthy increase. Shareholders’ funds (capi-
tal and reserves) have earned per annum :
Dec., 1902 .. £3 810 p.c. Dec., 1904 .. £3 13 5 p.c.
June, 1903.. 3 10 2 „ June, 1905.. 3 14 1
Dec., 1903.. 3 13 0 „ Dec., 1905.. 3 15 7 ”
June, 1904.. 3 10 7 ~ June, 1906.. 3 16 4 ”
And, as these following figures show, there is good reason
to expect more favorable results :
June,"’os. June, ’O6.
Bills, etc £49,679 £42,621 Dec. £7,058
Deposits .. .. 868,534 986,907 Inc. 118 373
Liquid assets .. 323,334 357,792 Inc 34 458
Advances.. .. 1,064,625 1,143,123 Inc. 78 498
Premises .. .. 62,248 63,663 Inc. 1,415
The proportion of the new deposits employed in advances
is large. Just over turn years ago the bank held 40 per
cent, of all the public’s moneyin cash and other assets
earning nothing or very little; now the proportion is
only 34 per cent., and the supposed margin of safety is
not far below that. The public is, however, very well
secured through the large interest which the shareholders
hold in the business : if such a serious thing happened to
Queensland that the advances and other non-liquid assets
became worth only 11s. 3d. in the £, depositors would
still be safe. The size of the capital compared to the
business is used as an excuse for not increasing the
reserves faster ; and it is a very good excuse—provided it
isn’t proposed to try to make the business larger. The
present dividend absorbs 84$ per cent, of the profit, leav-
ing' only 15$ per cent, for reserves, which is almost the
smallest lay-by among Australian banks. And still there
was a good deal of lamentation lately when the div.
wasn’t put up another $ per cent.
* * # *
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Vic.)
Written Added
off I’re- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, raises, serves, serves.
June, 1900 £3,153 5$ p.c. = £2,337 £Bl6 £58,933
Dec., 1900 3,334 6 „ „ 2,550 784 59,717
June, 1901 3,542 6 „ ~ 2,550 £225 767 60,484
Dec., 1901 3,629 6 „ „ 2,550 300 779 61,263
June, 1902 3,689 6 „ „ 2,550 1,139 62,402
Dec., 1902 3,627 6 „ „ 2,550 500 577 62,979
June, 1903 3,474 6 ~ „ 2,550 250 674 63,653
Dec., 1903 4,004 6 „ „ 2,550 250 1,204 64,857
June, 1904 3,977 7 ~ „ 2,975 1,002 65,859
Dec., 1904 3,974 7 „ 2,975 999 66,858
June, 1905 4,028 7 „ „ 2,975 1,053 67.911
Dec., 1905 4,040 7 „ „ 2,975 1,065 68,976
June, 1906 4,050 7 „ „ 2,975 500 575 69,551
This bank, though it is small, continues to make highly
respectable profits by reason of the concentration of its
business—and probably, to some extent, by doing a class
of advance business which larger banks cannot safely, or
at any rate do not, undertake. Its capital (£85,000)
and reserves combined have recently shown the following
earnings per annum :
Dec., 1902 .. £4 18 5 p.c. I Dec., 1904 .. £5 5 4 p.c.
June, 1903 .. 41311 „ June, 1905 .. 5 6 1 „
Dec., 1903 .. 5 7 9 „ Dec., 1905 .. 6 5 8 „
June, 1904 .. 5 6 2 „ | June, 1906 .. 5 5 2 „
Practically advances are at a standstill. Twelve months
ago they reached £299,126 ; now they are£299,779. Mean-
time deposits at interest have gone from £183,451 to
£190,953; but the cheapening of money lias just about
counterbalanced that—interest was £3493 in the earlier
and £3461 in the later term. Rut while both advances
and outgo for interest remain almost unaltered, general
charges have a way of moving up here as in every service
as the junior clerk marries, and the clerk above him calls
for a perambulator ; and this about accounts for the
recent shrinkage in percentage profits. The liquid assets
could pay 37 per cent, of the debts to the public; but
this is a more solid proportion than it looks, because no
less than 83 per cent, of the debts to the public are repre-
sented by fixed deposits. Depositors are further safe-
guarded by the large proportion of shareholders’ money
in the business, capital and reserves being equal to 10s.
3d. in the £ of all non-liquid assets.
* * # *
The Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank (Melbourne): —
Dividends on Added Nominal
Preference to Re- Re-
Profits. Shares. serves. serves.
Dec., 1900 .. £1640 Nil £1640 £11,641
June, 1901 .. 1222 Nil 1222 12,763
Taken from
Reserves.
Dec., 1901 .. 1634 1 p.c. = £2793 1159 11.604
June, 1902 .. 1522 1 „ „ 2793 1271 10,333
Dec., 1902 .. 1959 1 „ „ 2793 834 9,499
J une, 1903 .. 2199 1 „ „ 2793 694 8,905
Dec., 1903 .. 2606 1 „ „ 2793 187 8,718
Added to
Reserves.
June, 1904 .. 2866 1 „ „ 2793 73 8,791
Dec., 1904 .. 2957 1 „ „ 2793 164 8,955
Capital reduced from £909,979 to £198,935 ;
£BlO7 written off reserves 848
June, 1905 .. 3395 4 „ „ 3352 43 891
Dec., 1905 .. 3636 4 „ „ 3352 284 1,175
June, 1906 .. 4368 5 „ „ 4190 178 1,353
Besides the reserves shown in the last line, there is a
special reserve, which now amounts to £3500, £1366
having been added during the half-year. Under the last
scheme of reconstruction this fund, huilt up of surpluses
from the sale of written-down securities, is for the benefit
of deferred pref. and ordinary shares. The realisations
for the half-year were £33,218, of which £29,086 was farm
and other “ vacant ” land, reducing this item to £104,547
according to the new valuation ; but it is explained that
many of these properties have been sold on terms, and in
such cases the surplus has not been carried to this re-
serve. Six monthsago the balances owingon purchaseswere
£75,471 ; they are now £14,854 more. Presumably some
of the former balances have been paid off ; so apparently
half or more of the property has been sold on terms; and
in that case, as the surplus shown is only on the other
half, and on any previous purchases completed during
the half-year, it looks a satisfactory recovery ; and def.
pref. and ordinary shareholders (who saw £588,570 of
their capital go in the last reconstruction) get a small
crumb of hope. At the same time, as there has been a
boom in farm lands, recent prices are very little good to
judge the future by. Having had a cleaning-up, this bank
is now asking for new business. It has lent out the money
derived from the sale of its properties ; but it has not
increased its deposits in the last 12 months. Its holding
of liquid assets is very small, even allowing for the fact
that practically all its deposits are fixed; they amount
to less than 12 per cent, of the debts to the public. Ulti-
mately, no doubt, in view of the large proportion of
shareholders’ capital compared with deposits, depositors
have ample protection ; but, even so, the increase of the
dividend, and the grabbing of such a large proportion of
the little cash there is in hand, is a very poor advt. for
the new business that the directors say they are anxious
to get.
• * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank op Victoria
Losses on
Property, etc.,
Less Profit
Loss on on De- Total
Business, bentures. Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1900 .. £2263 £459 £2722 £2,722
June, 1901 .. 1049 565 1,614 4 336
Dec., 1901 .. 1792 169 1,961 6 297
Net Profit.
June, 1902 .. 1023 7,149 171
Loss.
Dec., 1902 .. 1217 3,426 4,643 4.814
Profit.
June, 1903 .. 60 700 640 5454
Dec., 1903 .. 277 6,190 5,913 11 367
June, 1904 .. 960 3,890 2,930 14,297
Dec., 1904 .. 275 10,278 10,003 24 300
June, 1905 .. 1271 7,313 6,042 30,342
Dec., 1905 .. 1423 2,061 638 30 980
June, 1906 .. 1644 5,713 4,069 35,049
In 1896 this bank undertook, under arrangement with its
debenture-holders, to raise £200,000 more capital by
June, 1900. The capital had been £250,000 in £1 shares.
The new capital had to be dragged in painfully, and by
the due date (or shortly after) 94,6 3 shares had been for-
feited, and the money paid on them (£106,694) was used
to write down assets. So many shares having been for-
feited, another call had then to be made to make up the
£200,000 ; and, late in 1900, a re-valuation having been
made of the assets, a further deficit of £178,683 was found
and £1 3s. was written off all the shares that remained
alive. Since then other shares have been forfeited, bring-
ing the total number thus killed to 97,274. The figures
just before this cleaning up, just after, and at the last
two balances are as follows
Dec., June, Dec., June,
1900. 1901 1905. 1906.
Capital .. £322,610 £188,241 £275,034 £275 431
Debentures.. 711,725 694,001 497,323 496 408
Otherdebts.. 1,844 7,463 907 1 232
Advances, &c. 504,795 508,603 389,945 383 575
Properties .. 317,432 325,743 300,667 284’106
Cash, &c. .. 29,392 61,687 51,672 70,341
Since June, 1900—just after the last cleaning-up was
completed—the debenture and other debt has thus been
reduced by £203,824 ; and to do that much a deficit of
£30,713 has been incurred (as shown by the first table).
The position would certainly have beeti worse than that
if debenture and other debt to that extent had all been
repaid out oi assets ; but after allowing for the increase in
the amount of cash, &c., now held, £68,536 of capital has
been available to pay off debentures. Deducting this
from the total, it is found that £135,288 of debt has been
paid off, at a cost of £166,001 of assets. If, then, it has
taken £166,001 of assets to pay off £135,288 of debt and
keep the business going, how much debt will £667,681 of
assets pay off? By rule of three, about £543,000. As
the debt amounts to £497,640, and against that there
is cash, &c., amounting to £70,341, the outlook might be
a good deal worse, especially as current business shows a
steady improvement, and is now doing something very
considerable in the way of helping old assets out. But,
on the other side, is the fact that, especially in the early
years after the last cleaning up, a good deal of profit was
made by buying up debentures at a discount; and as that
source of profit is now just about shut off, future net re-
sults are likely to be a good deal less satisfactory from
the unfortunate shareholders’ point of view.
* •* * *
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900.. £lO9O U per cent. = £937 £153 £4,588
June, 1901.. 2087 7£ „ „ 937 1150 5,738
Dec., 1901.. 1488 7% „ , 937 551 6,289
June, 1902.. 2977 8 „ ~ 1000 1977 8,266
Dec., 1902.. 1517 8 „ „ 1000 517 8,783
June, 1903.. 1349 8 „ ~1000 349 9,132
Dec., 1903.. 1744 8 „ „ 1000 744 9,876
June, 1904.. 3036 12 „ ~ 1500 1536 11,412
Dec., 1904.. 2435 8 „ „ 1000 1435 12,847
June, 1905.. 3775 12 „ ~ 1500 2275 15,122
Dec., 1905.. 3225 8 „ „ 1000 2225 17,347
June, 1906.. 2616 12 „ ~ 1500 1116 18,463
Taken by itself, any single balance-sheet of this trustee
co. is probably not worth very much as a guide to the
co.’s investment-value. All trustee cos. may be divided
into three —(1) Those that at once take as profit all corpus
commissions when the estate comes into the office (the
corpus commission averages something over 2 p.c. on the
capital value of the estate); (2) those that set aside
part of that commission to help the annual commission
while the estate is being administered, and show the
amounts thus set aside as a special reserve ; (3) those that
don’t show any such special reserve, though they probably
have one. The Equity shows income “ after providing
for contingencies,” and so, though it mentions no special
reserve, it probably belongs to class 3 ; but the extent of
the provision for contingencies cannot even be guessed
at. Nor does it give to the public any information about
the total value of the trust estates in its hands, though
on the extent of those trusts largely depends whether
the capital and reserves are adequate or not. Seeing
that year after year it pa.ts an average of 10 percent.,
and has no debts (it owes only £7B), and that its holding
of public securities has increased from £12,476 to £18,540
in three years, and its outstanding commissions from
£5276 to £8632, it is quite clearly doing a remarkably
profitable business. Even the reduced profits shown for
the past half-year give a return of £l2 7s. per cent, per
annum.
* * * *
The Australian Gaslight Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profits. . Dividends. serves. serves.
June, ’OO.. £47,879 15 p.c. = £51,135 £113,993
Dec., 'OO.. 64,033 15 „ „ 61,135 £2898 116,891
June,'ol.. 48,352 15 „ „ 61,135 114 108
Dec., ’Ol.. 46,818 15 „ „ 51,918 4900 1193)08
June,’o2.. 49,954 15 „ „ 65,045 113,917
Dec., ’02.. 61,546 15 „ „ 56,205 5341 119/258
June,’o3.. 61,703 15 „ „ 56,250 114 711
Dec., ’03.. 60,445 15 „ „ 66,250 4195 118,906
June,’o4.. 52,187 15 „ „ 56,250 114 843
Dec., ’04.. 61,555 15 „ „ 56,250 6305 120’,148
June,’os.. 63.343 15 „ „ 56,818 116,673
Dec., ’05.. 63,623 15 „ „ 59,284 4339 121’,012
June,’o6.. 66,237 15 „ ~ 59,971 117,278
Besides the reserves shown above, there are the follow-
ing :
Dec., ’O5. June, ’O6.
“ Suspense ” (including
premium capital) ..£271,512 £277,351 Inc. £5839
Meter reserve .. .. 10,747 11,748 „ 1001
Total £282,259 £289,099 Inc. £6840
According to this showing, the reserves have been added
to out of profits to the extent of only £6830 in five years.
But it is quite possible that revenue has been used to
pay for new works, and there is no certain way of tracing
this in the puolished accounts. The charging of many
works to profit and loss instead of to capital would
account for the remarkable return on capital ; the assets
show £7 48. 6d. percent, net profit for the past year, after
paying interest on debentures; and even then it is impos-
sible to say how much larger the profit might have been
had no works been paid for during the year out of
revenue. At the same time, though profits may be
hidden in this way for a while, eventually they must show
up in a bloated return on capital account; and in that
respect there has been no increase during the past 10
years. Ten years ago the return was £7 15s. 6d. per cent,
net on all assets ; as shown just now, the present return
is about 11s. per cent, less than that. Of course, that
comparison may be affected in this way : less may have
been taken out of profits to pay for works 10 years ago
than is being taken now, though there is no reason for
supposing that it is so. A comparison of the present
figures with those of five and 10 years ago follows
June, 1896. June, 1901. June, 1906.
Capital .. .. £681,798 £681,798 £799,947
Reserves .. .. 244,500 260,349 406 376
Debts to public .. 333,285 455,463 399 196
Plant, land, &c. .. 1,052,256 1,129,385 1,256,851
Stores, &c 172.750 222,892 292 534
Cash, &c 34,577 45,333 66,134
Profits .. .. 46,874 48,351 56,237
In 10 years the total capital (including the public’s) in the
business has increased by £345,936, of which £117,149 is
capital, and, presumably, the same amount is premium
capital. (The last lot of shares was issued at 100 per
cent, premium.) Of this £345,939, only £204,595 has
gone into fixed investments. That is to say, though
fixed investments (mains, buildings, &c.) represent 78
per cent, of the assets, less than 60 per cent, of the
capital raised during the past 10 years has been out into
them. Assuming that the various kinds of assets have
really increased in about the same proportion, this would
mean that a pretty large amount of new works has been
provided, notout of capital but out of revenue. The
whole thing is uncertain. The point of consequence is
whether the business is as good as it looks, and whether
proper provision is being made for depreciation (provid-
ing new works but of revenue is equivalent to that); and
it appears that, though a proper amount may have been
added to works out of revenue to provide for deprecia-
tion, there lias been no great hiding of profits, or if they
have been hidden the general earnings have declined in
the past 10 years more than enough to counterbalance
any profit derived from these hidden reserves.
* . * *
The Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Writ-
Charged ten
to off Re-
Profits. Dividends. Revenue. Stocks, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’OO 58,727 8 p.c. =34,288 1,442 655,521
June,’ol 53,955 9 ~ ~38,574 9,758 561 144
Dec., ’Ol 66,872 9 „ ~38,574 10,725 568,717
June, 'O2 50,212 9 „ ~38,574 11,643 568 712
Dec., ’O2 60,454 9,, ~38,574 5,172 6665 569,755
June,’o3 46,776 9 „ ~38,574 7,573 570 384
Dec., ’O3 52,017 9., ~38,574 9,481 2000 572,346
June,’o4 48,971 9,, ~38.574 6,901 575 842
Dec., ’O4 51,941 9 „ ~38,574 19,293 1434 568,482
June,’os 52,588 10 „ ~42,860 4,207 3207 570,796
Dec., ’O5 56,565 10 „ ~42,860 4,841 4660 575,0: 0
June,’o6 54,324 10 „ ~42,860 10,672 3101 572,691
The reserves consist of share premiums £466,536, formal
reserve £82,899, meter renewal fund £20,935, and un-
divided profit £2331. Apart from the reserves paid in by
shareholders themselves, the total is, therefore, £106,155.
But there is a hidden reserve in the shape of all the works
paid for out of revenue ; in the last three years alone
these have amounted to £55,395. This is on top of ordi-
nary repairs and maintenance, which for the past half-
year cost £18,600, or over l£ per cent, per annum on
capital outlay. The amount shown above as written off
stocks is made up in this way: £llOl spent on meter re-
n6 j ,a ! s as been written off the special meter reserve;
and £2OOO has been used to maintain gras-stoves, the rent
of which does not pay for up-keep. Nothing is charged
against revenue for general depreciation ; but the addi-
tions to works paid for out of revenue amount, on the
past three years’ figures, to a charge of over £lB,OOO a
year—about equal to an annual § per cent. (13s. 4d. per
£100) of capital invested. The share capital is £857,210,
premium capital £466,535, and debentures £848,000. On
these sums plus reserves (£108,465) as at Dec. 31st, 1905,
the profit for the past 12 months, after deducting
amounts written off (£7761), was at the rate of £6 6s. 3d.
per cent. _ The debentures carry an average of £4 16s. 3d.
per cent, interest, which leaves £llos. per cent, on the
borrowed money to provide profit for the co., and for
general depreciation and for risks. A profit (even allow-
ing it to be all profit) of £1 10s. per cent, is satisfactory,
no doubt; still shareholders may consider that £6 6s. 3d.
per cent, is better, and that is what they would handle if
this were their own instead of borrowed money. The
most costly of the borrowed money—£s6o,ooo at 5 per
cent.—falls due from 1908 to 1912, and up to now the co.
apparently proposes to renew. It certainly has bought
back £50,000 of the debentures, and holds them as part
of the reserve fund ; but after paying the ourrent div.,
its surplus of cash and liquid, assets (exclusive of these
debentures) amounts only to about £33,000, and even that
is represented by outstanding rates.
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide), pas-
toral finance and wool-broking people :
Written To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends off. Reserves, serves.
1899 £20,601 6 p.c. = £11,400 £9,201 £23,923
1900 28,631 9„ „ 17,100 11,531 35,454
1901 25,283 9 „ „ 17,100 £5OOO 3,183 38,637
1902 28,078 9„ „ 17,100 6396 4,582 43,219
1903 29,964 9„ „ 17,100 5000 7,864 51,083
1904 33,967 9„ „ 17,100 5000 11,867 62,950
1905 36,532 10 „ „ 19,000 4000 13,632 76,482
1906 45,940 10 „ „ 19,000 3000 23,940 100,422
These profits include recoveries of bad debts previously
written off, and by how much the recoveries have
swollen the profits during the past two years there are no
means of ascertaining. If they don't amount to much,
then the movement shown above is very striking indeed.
If they do amount to much, then in the natural
course of things, even if the present high level
of 8. Australian prosperity is maintained, the profits
will presently show a fall—unless, of course, something
very extra in the W’ay of provision for future bad debts is
being made out of current profits. Hut while there is
thus a doubt as to the reul amount of current profits, there
is no doubt that it is a fine business, prudently managed.
Premises, plant, and goodwill have cost the co. £147,746.
The whole of the goodwill item has gone, and the lumped
entry has been reduced to £54,885. Further movements
are shown) hereunder :
1899. 1906. 1906.
Deposits, &c £477,562 £631,684 £724,732
Other liabilities .. .. 306,983 120,196 11)6,043
Premises and plant .. 71,661 48,640 64,885
Govt, stock and cash .. 164,239 247,966 287,304
Advances, &c 463,992 604,656 617,149
Other assets .. .. 309,103 130,299 171,369
“ Other assets” include amounts in transit, which might
almost as properly be added to Government stock and
cash. The co. owes the public £830,775; including money
on the road, but excluding bills receivable, it holds
£367,501 of liquid assets, or 43 per cent, of its public lia-
bilities. Its own paid capital amounts to only £190,000;
on that and the reserves the net profit shows a return of
£l6 2s. 6d. per cent.—a remarkable result, provided that
the recoveries of old debts have not been large. In any
case, however, the co. is in the way to make big profits,
seeing that its own capital in the business amounts to
only just a shade over a fourth of the total. But it
has to take all the risk itself ; and in this sort of business
that risk isn’t something to be thrown into the basket
and forgotten.
* * * *
Otago Farmers’ Co-operative Association,
Ltd. (Maoriland)
Bonus
to To Re- De-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, ficit.
1903 .. £335
Re-
Mar., serves.
1904 .. £2,489 7|p.c.= £495 £1,994 1,659
1905 .. 2,326 7i „ „ 690 1,636 3,295
1906 . 2,396 U„ „ 815 £405 1,176 4,471
Of the reserves £6OO is a reserve for bad and doubtful
debts ; but as £619 is charged to profit and loss for bad
debts, leaving the other £6OO intact, latter may be a
genuine reserve, and not a mere entry against ascertained
“stiff” accounts. In the past two years, besides the
£6OO put to reserve, £1026 has been written
off for bad debts ; and that seems a very
large amount for a business like this. Worse
still, the outstanding debits are growing rapidly.
In 1904 they amounted to £23,946 ; in 1905, to £37,029;
in 1906, to £44,288. No doubt the turnover is large ; but
this grou'th of debits must surely have been much more
rapid than the growth of business. That bad debts (even
if all that are bad have been provided for) should absorb
10 per cent, of the gross commissions seems to need look-
ing into, anyway. Naturally, on account of this rapid
increase of clients’ debits, the co.’s own liabilities have
grown. In 1904 those liabilities, after deducting cash in
hand, were £25,753 ; now, two years afterwards, though in
the meantime £7177 of new capital has been got in, they
reach £37,049; and interest has to be paid on four-
fifths of this. If the new capital and borrowed
money had gone in buildings, merchandise stocks, &c.,
there u'ould be less cause to look uneasily at the move-
ment ; but by far the greater part of it has gone in ex-
tended credit to the co.’s customers. In view of these
circumstances, shareholders, with a view to strengthening
the reserves, should have been satisfied with the 7i per
cent, dividend —or even less—instead of grabbing an addi-
tional £405 (3} per cent.) by way of bonus on their
purchases ; for this bonus is payable only to shareholders.
* * * *
Port Jackson Co-operative Steamship Co.
(Sydney), which runs the line to Manly :
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1903 6p.e.= £750 £5625 £1,087
Dec., 1903 £3,996 8 „ „ 1000 2800 £196 1,283
June, 1904 7,973 8 „ „ 1000 5268 1705 2,988
Dec., 1904 6,407 8 „ „ 1000 1068 4339 7,327
June, 1905 11,038 10 „ „ 1250 8664 1124 8,451
Dec., 1905 7,966 10 „ „ 1250 6716 16,167
June, 1906 8,075 10 „ „ 1250 6825 21,992
Last year a new method of presenting the accounts was
introduced. Previously amounts set against depreciation
were written off and disappeared altogether from the
balance-sheet; and, provided the amounts thus set aside
were sufficient, the reserves were then true reserves. Now,
however, nothing is wiped off the sheet, and the plant re-
newal and depreciation reserve, which accounts for £15,000
of the total reserves, is to a large extent a mere entry
against depreciation which has actually occurred. Cer-
tainly, on the other side, there is the cash ; but that cash
is merely a counter-balance to worn-out ship, and the
ship remains in the balance-sheet at its full value, just as
though it were not worn out. The figures have conse-
quently to be looked at with a critical eye. From the
profits as stated above there has to be written off what-
ever amount may be thought fairly represents a half-
year’s wear-and-tear of steamers having a book-value of
£62,667. The co. has also an insurance fund of £4000;
and that is likewise not a reserve of the best character—
it covers a risk which has partly expired ; and the addi-
tion made to it during the half-year (£1000) cannot
also, for the same reason, be regarded as true profit.
What a shipping co.’s real profit is, can, in fact, rarely be
ascertained, because the real extent of the depreciation
of assets cannot easily be arrived at; the figures quoted
above as profits show, however, the revenue less working
expenses, and the public can make what deductions it
likes for wear and tear, &c. The co. has for some time past
been carrying £28,000 of debentures, besides those
issued to the old Co-operative Co. ; it has now been
arranged to pay the former off. The co. has just about
half of the cash to do it with ; the other half it will raise by
overdraft. It will then have a renewal and deprecia-
tion reserve of £15,000, but it won’t have any cash to
make any renewals with. Still, though that looks absurd,
debentures are a good thing to get rid of. So for that
matter is a fictitious “reserve”; and there is no reason
why the two should not be got rid of at the same time
bv also writing-down assets—so far, that is, as the renewal
and depreciation reserve is fictitious. Apparently, some
of it is genuine, though how much it is hard to say.
• • • •
Vested interests have proved strong enough to
secure the alteration of the recent regulation of the
Sydney Harbor Trust, which prohibited more than two
vessels lying abreast at Circular Quay. It is now per-


How to
Make
Your
Will
So XKaiit
wm be
Carried
out
W-C
Of
A
1 &As&*
* AT*
(Limit d)
mitted for two colliers to lie one on each side of the big
mail-boats at the same time, provided that the colliers do
notexceed in beam 61ft. This 61 seems a curious odd num-
ber to fix upon as an arbitrary limit, but the decision is
explained by the fact that the most influential of the
coal-carrying companies own colliers of 30£ft. beam.
* * » *
Tlie Castlemaine Brewery Co. (Melbourne)
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1896 £9,248 6 per cent. = £7500 £73,596 £20,863
Deficit.
1897 3,776 Nil 27,000 2,361
1898 4,201 Nil 5,000 3,160
1599 6,640 Nil 5,000 1,520
Reserves.
1900 11,067 2$ per cent. = 3125 2,500 3,922
1901 11,963 5 „ „ 6250 2,500 7,135
1902 7,589 5 „ „ 6250 8,474
1903 1,421 Nil 9,895
1904 4,255 Nil 8,599 5,551
1905 6,263 4 per cent. = 5000 1,500 6,314,
1906 1,498 Nil 2,000 4,812
Twelve months ago £2OOO was carried to suspense, and
has now disappeared ; and the item which it has been
used to reduce is not indicated. Other features are
these:—
1900. 1905. 1906.
Debenture debt.. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Other debts to public .. 66,838 32,080 29,020
Breweries, &c 83,569 85,371 84,174
Hotels, &c 107,686 122,880 123,984
Advances, trade debtors 68,162 33,596 32,255
Stock and plant.. .. 34,777 17,373 14,991
Cash, &e 6,261 7,174 3,428
At the end of 1903 what was in the following year’s report
called the “ ruinous competition among the metropolitan
breweries” was supposed to have been ended, and, to
quote the directors, “ a long-desired arrangement was
fixed up.” In the last year of this ruinous competition
the working account showed a profit of £13,448. Things
improved a little after the “ arrangement ” got to work,
and in 1905 the working account showed a profit of
£18,492, which not only allowed of the payment of
debenture interest, but provided 4 per cent, for share-
holders. But, in spite of the “ arrangement,” the same
account now shows a profit of only £12,838, or £6lO less
than before the ruinous competition was supposed to
have been ended. The Castlemaine is one of the breweries
which are to go into the new combine ; and, in view of
the disclosed results, the shareholders (who are shortly
to be consulted) are certainly not likely to say that the
old “ arrangement” did all that was necessary in the way
of preventing wasteful competition. How the Castle-
maine’s assets that won’t be taken over will work out
there is no way of judging from the published accounts,
as rents are bunched with all other revenue items. As,
however, only £10,789 has been written off hotels and
freehold properties which cost £132,546 —about two-
thirds of which apparently date back to the boom days,
when things were on a flash, 25 per cent, dividend basis—
these assets probably won’t pan out any too well.
* * ir *
Denton Mills Hat Factory Go. (Melbourne):
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1897 .. £3367 10 p.c. =£2330 £1823 £1376
1898 .. 3628 10 „ „ 2330 £1298 2674
1899 .. 3156 10 „ „ 2445 711 3385
New share premiums 31 3416
1900 .. 3114 10 „ „ 2450 664 4080
1901 .. 2857 10 „ „ 2450 407 4487
1902 .. 2955 10 „ „ 2450 505 4992
1903 .. 3268 10 „ „ 2584 1045 4631
1904 .. 3117 10 „ „ 2990 127 4758
1905 .. 3208 10 „ „ 3000 208 4960
1906 .. 3363 10 „ „ 3000 363 5329
This co. was established 19 years ago under Victoria’s
protective State tariff, and it got a good footing before
G. Reid, J. Cook, and B. Smith had anything to say in
the matter of Victorian duties. Also it secui ed the as-
sistance of the Melbourne wholesale houses ; or, anyhow,
the tariff drove the wholesale houses to take an interest
in it, and that has been a great help since the duties
were tinkered with. One way and another, therefore,
but all ways starting from the one source—the old Vic-
torian tariff—this co. is about the most steadily profitable
among Australian “industrials.” Besides the amounts
shown above as written off, the co. regularly allows some-
thing out of profit for ordinary wear and tear—usually
about £5OO or £6OO a year, say about 12$ per cent, per
annum onthe book valueof machinery and plant. The least
satisfactory feature of the present balance-sheet is the
unusual amount owing by sundry debtors. In 1904 the
total was £7282, in 1905 it was £6860, now it is £10,492.
Hitherto it has been reported—“ No provision for bad
or doubtful debts is necessary.” The rapid increase of
outstanding money—probably the effect of keener com-
petition, now that the tinkered tariff has got to work-
may' mean that provision will be necessary in the future.
* • ■* *
June results of chief W.A. mines -.—Profits:
Oroya-Brown Hill, 12,5920 z., £37,800 ; Boulder, 10,9480 z.,
£25,060; Fingall, 10,GOGoz., £22,000; Kalgurli, 80020 z.,
£21,130 ; I van hoe, 10,01'20z., £21,120; Horseshoe, 13,2750 z.,
£20,180 ; Perseverance. 58250 z., £11,500 ; Associated
Northern, 35800 z., £10,950 ; Sons of Gwalia, 438'20z.,
£6890: Associated, 45890 z., £5550; South Kalgurli,
33200 z., £4490 ; Pole, 14530 z., £2140 ; Lake View Consols,
36540 z., £1660; Tower Hill, 19260 z., £1600; Hainault,
16020 z., £1500; Red Hill, 7020 z., £1030; Ida H., 9610 z.,
£980; North Feather, 10590 z., £700; Vivien, 881 oz.,
£7OO ; Ingleston Extended, 3900 z., £6BO ; Cumberland,
6030 z., £390 ; Cosmopolitan, 21C00z., £260 ; Greenmount,
3350 z., £L4O ; Craiggiemore, 4390 z., £9O ; Bellevue, 14600 z.,
£3O. Losses: East Murchison United, 15490 z., £1800;
Golden Ridge, 4840 z., £740; Princess Royal, 5190 z.,
£210; VVaihi, 7200 z., £l5O. The big mines' results show
comparatively' little change from the previous month ;
but Perseverance profits are £l5OO less, Waihi shows a
loss of £l5O against a profit of £7O, and Tower Hill’s
margin is only £l6OO against £2160. Sons of Gwalia,.
Associated, and Golden Pole show better results, but this
is due to reducing the amount spent on development.
* * * »
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, has had 55 tons
smelted for 5090 z. gold ; total, so far, 572 tons, 8G670z.
gold and 37,9600 z. silver. This last parcel came from the
oxidised ore above the 100 ft. level, and the richest of this
is now pretty well exhausted. At 300 ft. driving is still
being continued south, but nothing payable has been
met. The lode looks all right, but values are poor. The
prospectors are still hopeful of finding the continuation
of the rich shoot.
* * * *
On the recent reconstruction of Ivanhoe Junc-
tion (W.A.) a call of 3d. per share was made, and,
although very' little work has been done since, a further
call of 3d. has now been made to buy machinery. It is
asserted that there are 9000 tons of 16dwt. ore in sight
besides thousands of tons of 9dwt. grade ; but all crush-
ings pooh-pooh this. It is proposed to cut down the
shaft, and erect an up-to-date equipment; but before
any'thing further is done, the mine should be sampled and
reported upon by' someone whose opinion would be
accepted as final.
* * * *
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, has made two calls
of Is. each, payable on the last days of July and August.
Recently co. had a test crushing at the Eclipse mill ; but
the result was never made public, though it was said it
did not top sdwt. The lode is big but poor ; and before
shareholders part up 2s. on scrip quoted at 3d., they
should insist on having particulars of that test crushing.
* * * *
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie, has been issuing very
good reports from its Eclipse lease, on the north end of
the Golden Mile. Some time ago good results were got
from the oxidised zone, but the gold petered out. In
driving south from the old Grmsus Prop, shaft at 500 ft.
good values were met, and these have continued for a
long stretch. At 250 ft. south the lode is 15ft. wide,
worth, it is said, about 60s. If further development
confirms this, the mine should be one of the best on the
field. But, unfortunately, the reports as to this co.’s
properties are often exaggerated.
• * * •
One Ridgeway machine for retreating residues
has been successfully working on the Boulder (W. A.) for
months, and recently one has been installed at the
Associated. The machine will later on be a god-send to
small mines, where filter presses will not pay.
• * « •
Golden Pole, Davy hurst (W.A.), has got costs
down to 355. lOd. per ton, or about half what they were a
few months ago. This reduction has, however, been
largely brought about by neglecting development. Dur-
ing June, only £383 was spent on that work, or less than
a third of what was spent recently. The outlook is any-
thing hut promising. The upper levels are nearly worked
out, and the pay shoot at 400 ft. is dipping so Hat to the
north that it is becoming very remote from the present
main shaft. Yet a new main shaft is hardly justified.
Nat Harper, the late manager, has just visited the mine,•
but neither he nor anyone else can restore to the property
its best dayB.
# # • *
Appears to be some misunderstanding over ex-
Slorer Oarr Boyd’s new Eldorado in the remote Gosmo
ewbury Hills (W.A.). Members of the syndicate that
has sent Boyd out with a party understood that Dr. R. L.
Jack had seen the show and approved of it. Now Jack
says he didn’t. But the money is up, anyway, and the
party has gone out.
# * » *
Just before leaving Westralia for Melbourne,
Hans Irvine got a wire from Black Range stating that
a new 2oz. lode 2ift. wide had been struck at 40ft. in his
newly-acquired llavilah leases. Latest crushing for the
Black Range Mining Co. is 334 tons for 6500 z., with
another 3500 z. or so to come from cyaniding. A railway
to Black Range would give the field a great lift, and the
Moore Government has promised to have a survey' made
right off. The nearest starting point Is Mount Magnet,
78 miles away ; but busted Cue, 60 miles further distant,
is making frantic efforts to get the line started from
there. But wh.v goods and passengers should be carted
the extra distance just to prop up a worn-out mining
camp isn’t clear.
• • • *
Adelaide has fixed up the amalgamation of
Princess Royal and Central, Norseman (W.A.); the Cen-
tral gets 25,000 paid shares. Prospects are not brilliant,
but without deeper work there are practically no pros-
pects at all ; and one job of that sort is quite as much as
the two concerns can tackle.
* * • •
The B. H. North Extended has not yet given
any proof of the yarn that its ore at 175 ft. is a continua-
tion of the North’s body. The latter is still in the North
at 700 ft., and is at that point going almost vertically ;
and the miracle that puts it into the Extended at a
shallower level than that has yet to be explained. Appa-
rently the public is asked to believe that the lode isn’t
really a lode, but some sort of a wriggling worm.
• • * *
The lode in Howell section of the British Broken
Hill has jumped about a good deal in going down to 600 ft.,
but as it has got consistently wider with depth, it will be
found at 800 ft. all right. Tl’ie drill is boring at varying
angles, so that the lode’s erratic course may be mapped
out. Marsh’s section still opens up well, and stoping has
started at the 3Qoft. level. North, there is a fine body of
ore to take out, extending to the level above. Some
carbonates have been cut in the prospecting shaft on the
Junction boundary, and it may be a payable deposit.
Years ago a rich carbonate lode was followed from King
shaft (in the Junction) for some distance into British
territory in these parts, and a good deal of ore was
taken out before the Junction discovered that it was over
its boundary. This is probably why, when the Junction,
a couple of months ago, announced a discovery of car-
bonates off King shaft, the British promptly called on
the J unction to ask about the weather.
* * # *
B.H. Block 14 estimates eight months’ car-
bonate ore in sight ; but the stopes already get a bit
patchy-looking. The finding of the lode at 600 ft. is
proving a slow job.
• * * *
W. L. Baillieu, of Melbourne, in order to land
the big B. U. North-Junction North amalgamation fish
for which he has heen angling, has changed his bait. He
went up to the Hill, was shown over the North mine, and
was impressed. The North is a better mine, on present
developments, than many, even interested people, believe
it to be. And if it gets the Victoria Cross lode at 800 ft.
its ore reserves will be vastly increased. But there are
yet a couple of hundred feet to drive for that. Baillieu’s
idea is evidently to impress the Junction North people,
who, of course, can’t quite forget their broken shaft,
damaged for over 100 ft.
* • * *
The 400 ft. development at New White Leads,
Broken Hill, is not as good as represented. There is no-
thing to justify the assumption that the pipe of ore cut
was the lode from the 300 ft. level. After passing through
some country, a second pipe of ore has been met, but
there is nothing startling about it. A long distance had
to be driven before the lode was cut at 300 ft., and the
same will probably have to be done if the lode is to be
picked up at depth.
• • • •
The Globe, beyond Round Hill, has started
breaking ore. There is a fairly good lode here, and the
proposition looks the most satisfactory' of the outside
Barrier (N.S.W.) shows now being developed. But even
it can never be anything but a little thing.
• * * »
B.H. Block 10 makes but little headway with
the picking up of its broken ground in the upper levels.
At 515 ft. something in the way of a new drive is being
putin to give access to the stope there, but above that
point nobody seems to know how things are.
* i- * •»
Premier, Cobar (N.S.W.), previously introduced
as one of the likeliest of the Great Peak group, already
shows the new co. what appears to be the “ Blue ” lode
in the bottom of the old shaft, about 180 ft. deep and 30ft.
from Great Peak’s northern boundary. So far assays are
not high, but the combination of minerals and the exist-
ence of a reel sft. in the direct line of the Blue lode look
like a good barometer.
* * • »
Budgery, Hermidale (N.S.W.), now cross-
cutting at 218 ft. for a copper lode which passed out of
the shaft higher up, still attracts the speculator ; and 500
acres of mineral leases have been taken up around it.
Original shares (£l5) are now in the neighborhood of £4O,
but it depends on the crosscut whether they are worth a
lot less or a lot more.
* * •* *
Shuttleton mines (N.S.W.), adjoining Crowl
Creek on the southern boundary, appear to have caught, at
380 ft., a good deal of the sulphide body Crowl Creek should
have, but hasn’t. From 18 tons of firsts treated at Waralah
16'8 per cent, of copper was returned, giving theco., after
paying carriage and treatment, £8 16s. 6d. per ton ; and
there is £5 3s. per ton from six tons of 10 per cent, fines.
Understood that latter is an average sample of the lode in
the crosscut from the south level ; but until negotiations
are completed for sale of ore as broken this can’t be said
for certain. Somehow, it is a hard thing to get a real test
parcel sent from a young mine—a young copper mine
especially’. In any' case, however, Shuttleton looks a good
deal more solid than its neighbor.
* * * *
Mt. Boppy South (N.S.W.), always held with
the view that one day it would assert its connection with
the main ore bodies of the parent mine, again proposes an
option to the big co. Boppy South has a continuous reef
to 200 ft., certainly not high-grade but yet gold-bearing
throughout; and, seeing that the parent mine’s high-
grade was all distinctly in the sulphide zone, there is just
as distinctly no reason why the South’s values should not
also improve. An amalgamation of the Mt. Boppy’s
southern leases and the South Mt. Boppy should provide
the requirements of a new float; but without the South
property in the deal, there is nothing to tempt J. Bull—
who, of course, will have first offer, on account of his
connection with Mt. Boppy, out of which he has done very
well.
• • * *
Baker’s Creek, the Adelaide-bossed Hillgrove
(N.S.W.)show whose shareholders have stuck to it much
better than some people had hoped for, arrives at the
point when it will have to do something. Its capital is
just about exhausted, its liquid assets (including the un-
paid balance of the last call) will only pay creditors and
leave £3852 over, and last half-year’s work left the co.
£2731 to the bad, though there is some develop-
ment to show for the money—development which,
especially at the No. 16 level, is well worth follow-
ing up. There will have to be a reconstruction of
some sort; and, while that is being discussed, some-
body might mention costs of management. Bendigo’s
dazzler, New Moon, paid for management last half-year
£291 ; its New Argus, which divided 17s. per share
(14s. Bd. paid), spent £265 in that way ; Baker’s Creek,
though making its last call, spent £613, and that was
less than usual. Which helps to explain why little
Bendigo mines can pay dividends, while better mines in
other districts can’t.
* * * •
At the True Blue, Wyalong (N.S.W.), mineral
stone of good quality has been cut in the Brilliant shaft
at 1000 ft., the greatest depth yet reached on the field.
This puts the permanency of the Wyalong reef fissures
beyond question.
* m m •
Tin has heen found now on Mtilyan holding,
near Yalgogrin (N.S.W.), and a number of permits
have heen granted by the Warden. Connolly and party
are down 35ft., and have 12 tons of ore on top : the best
of it will go 60 per cent, oxide. The vein is, however,
very narrow. The find has had a favorable official report;
what it wants now is a battery.
« * * *
From the Burragorang (N.S.W.) 38$ tons of
oxidised ore sent, to Cockle Creek gave £ll Bs. sd. per
ton, after paying railway freight and smelting charges,
and 20 tons of sulphides gave £l4 9s. 3d. per ton. But
tne high vnlueof Burragorang ore has never heen ques-
tioned. ft is the cost of mining (due to the smallness of
the ore bodies) and the appalling cost of cartage to the
railway that, have thrown the large wet blanket over the
business hitherto.
* # * •
In spite of the Sulphide Corporation’s failure to
make a do 6f zinc-smelting in Australia, the newer Zinc
Corporation has imported American zinc expert Qneneau
to go into the matter, and, if bis report is not dead
against it, to select a site and put up works on a small
scale. The betting seems to be that his report will be
dead against it. until something in the shape of a sub-
stantial bonus comes along to counteract the German
bonus system, under which Australia’s riches are drawn
away at dirt prices to give employment to European
smelters.
* * * *
To settle the vast difference of opinion between
expert Palmer and manager Turley regarding the Coppa-
beila, shareholders in Melbourne have decided to call in
a Zeehan man. Chairman Gore, who has supported
Turley’s view that Coppabella is the good thing
it has been cracked up to be, suggested manager
Craze, of the Montana; and he is being sent to. But
isn’t Henry Gore connected with the Montana, and more-
or-less Craze’s boss? If so, though it might he harder to
get a man who knows more, it looks easier to get one who
is a good deal more independent; and that is what the
distracted shareholder wants.
• * * *
Bendigo’s New Moon isn’t quite the same
dazzler that it was in 1904, but it is still brighter than a
ha’penny dip. In 1903 it paid £1 16s. per share on 24,000
shares, in 1904 £2, in 1905 £1 18s. ; total for three years,
£5 145., or 1184 per cent, on the paid capital. Past half-
year the total was 145., or at the rate of 285 per cent,
per annum. The half-year’s gold was worth £30,694, and
£1959 came in for crushing for the public ; and the profit
ran to £18,037. “ There are many contingencies to be
provided for that cannot be foreseen,” the Board says,
arguing in favor of a reserve fund ; and then out of its
profit of £18,037 it drops a whole £7O into the fund to pro-
vide for these many contingencies. In 31 years the mine
has divided £153,600, and the reserve fund is still only
£3680. No doubt the Board can argue that that is £3680
more than most Bendigo cos. have ; but even a Bendigo
jury wouldn’t acquit a man who only killed two people
because somebody else had killed four. One curious
thing about Bendigo is that it has never regarded it as a
reflection upon one of its former top-notchers to have to
take to making calls. It pays calls itself just as naturally
as it turns into the Beehive ; and when there is no more
capital to call it reconstructs. Even this New Moon has
gone through three reconstructions ; and, as it has only
£440 to call up, the chances are that some day it will hive
to reconstruct again in order to reach the next make of
stone, in spite of its 1184 per cent, dividends in three
years. The system of paying out all profits, and later on
making calls and selling big blocks of forfeited shares, is
bad for the miner, because it means booms and bursts
and irregular employment; but it has made many a fat
Bendigonian fatter.
* • * *
A syndicate has been formed in Sydney, with
the heroic purpose of floating a £750,000 co. to work the
Moore-Ueskett Steel and Wrought Iron Process, talked
about in Melbourne for some considerable time, and
described in Tub Bulirtix 18 months ago. The method
is said to produce malleable iron or steel from crushed
iron ore in one continuous act, thereby improving upon
the existing methods, which necessitate an intermediate
stage of pig iron ; and the promoters of the new idea
estimate that they can “ effect a saving of not less than
25 per cent, in the cost of malleable iron or steel.” As for
conservative objections to the revolutionary process,
it is attributed to “ the natural desire of pro-
prietors to avoid the necessity of having to
discard, and write off the capital sunk in the
present enormously costly blast furnaces and converters,"
though Heaven knows where they are to he found in
Australia. This much can he said : fine steel has heen
produced by the process—it had been produced two years
ago—and a process that can do that is at least worth
looking into ; and, as was urged here long ago, the right
party to do the looking is the Australian Government. If
the manufacture of something better than Bessemer steel
can be marie a purely Australian industry, it is the duty
of the Government to relieve Private Enterprise of the
job, the more especially as the Government is by far the
biggest user of steel.
• » * *
“ Queen -street” is to bore the old Kapunda
copper mine (S.A.) to see if there is anything below
420 ft., at which point the freeholders abandoned it 25
years ago, after getting out a million pounds’ worth of
ore. Dave James, the lucky Kapunda teamster, who
happened to have a station contract on Mt. Gipps when
Broken Hill was found and made a pot out of an original
share, bought the freehold some years ago, and he and
the Clarkes, with a promise of help from 11. J. Daly’s
people, have fixed up the present co., which goes into
Brandon’s office. The point to be settled is whether the
Kapunda petered out at 420 ft. or thereabouts, or whether
the water heat the tired and largely-English co. The
new co. will spend £5OOO in 12 months in getting under
this level. If it then exercises its option £25,000 has to
be put up as workilig capital.
• • • •
Metal statistics are mostly baited hooks, be-
cause the volume of buying and selling bears no relation
to the actual quantity of metal available, and many of
the transactions are only on paper ; consequently a large
falling off in sales may mean that there has been less
gambling than usual —not that there is a shortage of the
metal. Still, though the statistics are mostly baited
hooks, there seems to be something solid about the
statement that two months ago the recorded stocks of
copper in Europe did not exceed 5200 tons, or less than a
week’s ordinary requirements.
• • * *
About the most cheerful feature of Queensland
copper up to date is the development at 270 ft. in Mt.
Mollov. So many of the old Queensland copper shows
petered out at shallow depths, or turned into something
that wasn’t copper, that a 12ft. lode of 10 per cent, ore at
270 ft., in a mine whose ore started at the grassroots,
gives a more comfortable feeling about the others. North
Queensland has lately been a steady buyer of Molloys.
Still, what North Queensland does in the matter of buy-
ing can’t be allowed to count for much. It bought Mount
Garnets. Also, lately, it pretty consistently bought into
the mysterious Dalziell tin, and yet Dalziells sag below
par.
West Cloncurry Copper, Ltd. (Q.), has begun
work on its Argvlla shows and on its Sprinir Peak leases.
The Argrylla is probably the best of the freeholds, which
had been kept locked up for 40 years. Premier Kidston
should hurry with his promised “ special legislation.”
* ■* * •
Mt. Elliott, Cloncurry (Q.), has a crosscut
advancing west of the prospecting shaft in 16 per cent,
ore. Elliott appears to be the dandy mine of the field so
far; the Hampden is bigger, but the Elliott is developing
faster. The co. has now £40,000 in hand or available,
and is exporting as much 35 per cent, ore as it can secure
transport for—which, however, isn’t much. And, when
transport is available, it is so costly that little under
25 per cent, ore is reckoned good enough to send. There
isn't a doubt about the remarkable richness of the shows
(of course, they haven’t been tried at depth yet); but it
does not look as though the market for Cloncurry stocks
can be maintained while the railway creeps out that way.
* * * * *
The distributing co-operative societies in Vic-
toria are thinking over a Co-operatiwe Wholesale Society
on the lines of the huge affair of Manchester. The Civil
Service, Bendigo, Ballarat, Werribee Farmers’, N.E.
Farmers’ and Gippsland Farmers’ societies have so far
joined in. Their membership totals 22,000. Idea is to
buy collectively direct from the producers, also to act as
those producers’ agents in selling and exporting.
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
» * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “pops” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has cpiite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, l.td., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only IGlbs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder thes& machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is SOlbs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
* * # *
The electric plant of the Federal Palace Hotel,
corner Collins and King Streets, Melbourne, furnishes a
good example of a thoroughly successful electric installa-
tion, in technical as well as in commercial respects. This
plant generates all electric current required for the hotel
lighting ; it consists of a 20 horse-power gas engine belted
to a “ Ganz ” 12 kilowatts dynamo, a “ Ganz ” switch-
board containing all the controlling and measuring instru-
ments, and a storage battery with 62 cells. The generating
machinery runs continually during the day time at its
full capacity and highest efficiency ; the surplus current
being stored into the battery ; the latter supplies all
necessary electricity required during the night; the
battery forms also a substantial reserve in case of acci-
dents. Compared with the«*revious method of working a
saving of £4OO per annum has been effected by this plant..
The contractors for this plant were The Austral Otis
Engineering Company, Ltd., corner Hanah and Kavanagh
Streets, South Melbourne, as sole agents for Ganz and
Company, Budapest, Hungary.* [3.]
* * * *
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* . * * *
Insurance News (Manchester, England), in its
issue of 15th August, 1905, wrote with reference to the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ The
premium income is now some £338,000 pet annum. The
accumulated funds stand at virtually £3,000,000, and the
reputation of the office, both for enterprise and liberality,
is practically world-wide.”*
* * * *
Since the Privy Council decision in favor of the
Card Concentrator, orders for the table have been coming
in freely ; amongst the orders may be mentioned Central
Broken Hill (17), British Broken Hill (4), Irvinebank,
Queensland (2), Magnet, Tasmania (second order), School
of Mines, Bendigo, Wallaroo and Moonta Copper, New'
Churn Gold Fields, Bendigo, North New Moon, Bendigo.
N. Guthridge, Ltd., Sole Licensees and Manufacturers.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, w'rite and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. U. B. Silburberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Montde PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fiinning, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * » *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now-
making the Hornsby-Stock port Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
• * * »
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox w-ater-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
» * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* » * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ARTISTS, Photographers, &c., are
invited to submit DESIGNS OR
IDEAS SUITABLE FOR REPRODUC-
TION AS POST CARDS to
HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David vStorer (Q. Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
<a BLUE.
Kept by .. .
ALL MERCHANTS
(Sb STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
IV
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
Aboriginalities.
“G.H.S.”: Touching “ Mallarapoona’s ”
trouble (21/6/’OG) about “out-back,” the waybacks
of Maoriland to-day are the men who are marooned
by moats of mud on the bush sections of the
North Island. When they go away from
civilisation in May or June they saj' they
are going “in,” not because it happens to be
,the centre of the island, but because it is into
the bush, or into the place where the bush
used to be when they first went into it. Also
it is into the mud—the deep, deep mud. And
when they come back to flash a bit of money
about in the summer they go “out,” even if it
means to Wellington—they come out of the mud.
The Maorilander will talk this way twenty cen-
turies hence, just for the reason that he talks of a
well-grassed country over run with cattle as the
Forty Mile Bush.
A NEW MISSILE.
FITZSTAGGERS : “Our South African trip was a
real frost. I, myself, in the leading part,
was removed to the hospital amid a shower of
eggs.”
FOOT-LIGHTZ : “ But eggs, dear boy, though
beastly uncomfortable are not dangerous.”
FITZSTAGGERS : “ Great Scott, man ! They were
ostrich eggs.”
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
A SLIGHT DIFFERENCE.
POPER : “ Why, I thought you said you wanted to see Hooltger —that he’d insulted your wife.”
PELTER : “ Yes; but I didn’t say I wanted him to sec me.”
“Darius”: Snakes are not nearly as
numerous in the bush as they were a few years
back, and are getting scarcer every year. Floods,
bushfires, and more population are the probable
causes. And perhaps the grog is better.
♦ * * *
“ Kaban " : What is the longest geographi-
cal name in use in Australia ? I rather fancy
South Australia takes the biscuit in this line, with
Oadibarrawirracanna (eight syllables, 19 letters),
the name of a small lake near the Denison Range.
Tidnacoordooninna, in the same State, makes a
good second.
* * * *
A melancholy thing is thedeserted goldfield.
The outskirts of Temora (N.S. W.) are seamed and
scarred with shafts, and any day one may see old
prospectors prowling about
staring at the alluvial-
strewn surface, looking
for an odd dwt. Along-
side them passes a stream
of waggons laden with
wheat, driven by Teutons,
unromantic men who pro-
bably eat sauer-kraut.
Further on, at Wyalong,
they still have a warden,
and a red flag, and store-
keepers who buy gold
dust. But Temora has
grown deplorably agricul-
tural. They don’t wear
red ponchos and shoot one
another in their leisure
moments now. Their
wildest recreation is count-
ing up the number of
sacks contained in the
local goods shed. In the
middle of one of the
streets there totter some
of the most dilapidated
structures imaginable. The
owners are old miners who
built there in the first
rush, and now have a
right to stay there in de-
fiance of civic authorities
so long as they keep their
miners’ rights in force,
and refrain from patching
up the huts. As soon as
the buildings become
absolutely uninhabitable
their privilege ends. The
huts are rapidly decay-
ing, and the position grows absurd. But there
they stand, a fitting symbol of the departed
glamor of gold.
* * * *
“Elmore” : “Nulla” (B. 5/7/’Ob) gives
the best description I have seen of a wombat—“ a
cross between a pig and a bear.” The wombat is
probably the least known of all our bush animals.
Scores of bushmen I have met have never seen
one. He is a good-tempered beast, but he does
not like any obstacles put in his way, so when he
comes bang up against a wire-netted fence—well,
he goes through it. They are easily tamed. A
man I know took three or four over to a Bendigo
Easter Fair and coined much money by exhibiting
them as African bears. Same man with a tent,
much beer, and a wombat, struck Yackandandah
(Vic.) Agricultural Show; sixpence a head and a
drink thrown in. He was rushed, and made 3d.
profit on each look at the wombat.
Whether climatic conditions are respon-
sible or not, the strange fact is recorded that at
the Purangi settlement, Taranaki (M.L.), until
the other day, only male children had been born
for any number of years. As far back as 12 years
ago, the entire absence of the she-baby caused so
much comment that a prize was gathered for
presentation to the first couple responsible for a
girl. Now a belated little bundle of femininity has
arrived, and her parents have collected the sweep-
stake.
* * * *
“The Moocher”: Re humping Matilda.
Once learnt a tip worth knowing for a new-chum
on the track.
Don’t try to
make-believe
you are an
old hand.
Nothing the
bushie hates
so much as
sham. Own
up if you
are green.
Anyway, let
him see that
you’re not
ashamed of
it. If you try
to pass as an
old hand, he
sees through
your fake
and distrusts
you, while he
laughs at
you. That’s
where Hope-
toun made a
great error.
He paraded
as “ a stock-
man,” “a boundary rider,” and what not, in
silk shirt, shiny leggings, buckle belt and
silver-mounted whip. He was a sham, and
the man outback scoffed at him. The ways
of the track are not always faultless; but
that one virtue alone covers many a sin. They
quietly laugh at sham and shun it, and give a
helping hand to an honest new-ehum.
Some remarks on the “ saved ” Kaffir by
a Victorian, resident in S’Africa
The Christianised Kaffir is becoming a source of danger
jo the country. He is more of a politician than a
Christian. It is a peculiar trait in the Kaffir that, as
soon as he gets any Christian teaching, he immediately
blossoms into a politician of the declamatory type. After
nearly 10 years’ experience amongst Kaffirs, 1 am re-
luctantly forced to the conclusion that a very large pro-
portion of the missionary effort has been of a negative
character. . . . The Kaffir who is possessed of the most
cunning, and who is the most covetous —ready to lie and
deceive —is invariably one who had his training at a
mission station. Old colonists will not trust them for
house servants, whilst the raw Kaffir is implicitly trusted
and seldom forfeits that trust. . . , The methods of teach-
ing are not to blame. . . . Of course, thousands of people
would be indignant at such remarks, and would quote
figures to prove what a consummate ass 1 must be.
Nevertheless, I know what lam writing about. . . . The
Kaffir question is going to be a big problem here—one
that will take a lot of solving.
“L.0.P.”: Re “The Prooshan’s” par.
(B. 28/6/’O6). I would like to tell him that I
don’t think much of his crow-scheme. I was out
shooting, the other day, accompanied by a black
dog, when I sighted a considerable lot of crow
feeding on a newly-skinned carcase amongst some
bracken. I determined to follow “The Prooshan’s”
advice, so turned round and walked backwards
till I reckoned I was within range ; then whirled
round and let bang at such crow as I could see
between the bracken. A stifled yelp rent the air
in five places, and then all was silent. While I
was walking backwards the crows had left, and
were now a mile away, and my dog had rushed
the carcase. He died with his mouth full of car-
case and a surprised expression in his eye. Since
then I always run at the crow on the frontal-
attack method, like Buller.
* * ♦ *
“ The Moocher’s” theory :
Re crow-shooting. Have read the “ Abo.’s” on it, and
reckon their various methods of lying dead, crawling
backwards, and turning hand-springs towards a crow
would only amuse him. Best way is to build a gunyah,
leave it till the crow gets to see that it is harmless, then
throw carrion about it for a few days. Then go to it in
full daylight with a gun and another man (a woman
won’t do ; crows distinguish dress). Let one man stay in
the gunyah with the gun, and t’other go whence he
came. Crows can’t count, and when one man has gone
will come down to feed on the bait. Shot dozens that
way, and would recommend it to “The Prooshan”and
co.
The Bulletin merely mentions that if the crow
can’t count two he is a beastly ignorant fowl, and
that the above device seems to require a good
deal of house-building, several days delay, some
meat, and the services of two men and a gun, and
the whole result may be one crow.
* * *
“Two Seas'”: Have noticed of late much
difference of opinion in The Bulletin about
snakes. I put this down to the tendency of the
new chum to dogmatise upon the strength of a
solitary experience. Most of the snake com-
petitors favor the theory that a dead snake
exercises an irresistible attraction over his or her
relatives. Having had only about 22 years’
experience of suake-killing, 1 hesitate to offer an
opinion on that point. I can only say that if such
is the case, every one of the hundreds of snakes I
have murdered has been an unmarried orphan.
On Pallal Creek, Bingera district (N.S.W.), I have
killed as many as six black snakes in a morning’s
stroll, and left them where they fell, but in no
instance did lever, on revisiting the corpse, find
an avenger or a mourner alongside my victim.
In this (Goulburn) district I have dealt chiefly
with the quick and lively brown snake. One was
shot whilst peeping out of a hole in the laundry
floor, and on the following day the stout washer-
lady stood with her skirts over the grave. I pre-
sume, as she wasn’t bitten, that the relatives of
the deceased mistook her for a monument, and
appreciated the compliment. By the way, I once
grabbed a black snake by the after part, as it slid
into a small hole at the root of a tree. I braced’
my feet against the tree, and hauled until I
somersaulted backwards with half a snake in my
hands. My curiosity nearly led me to grub
the tree to find out how that snake obtained its
purchase, but not wanting to be bitten by any
half-snake I refrained.
THE SWEATERS' TOPHET.
_
“Elmore : In the bad old days there
were more grog shanties than churches in N.E.
Victoria, and hundreds of men were picking up
the gold on the surface, and tragedies were almost
as common as rum. Now the men are gone, and
barges and dredges slowly nose their way over
abandoned workings. When cleaning up,
some strange relics of the past come to light in
the boxes. Gold and silver coins (mostly with
George s head on them), old belt buckles pocket-
knives’ sheath knives, and bones are found Once
I saw what looked like a human skull with a hole
th h the forehe ad, but the man at the boxes
fopked it illto the slum too quickly to allow of in-
spection. Many an old-time mysterious disap-
poarance may be explained by the handy pick-
f , • r > forphead And bv the wav what a
"°‘ c m “ ,le torMMsaa. And, oy the way, wnat a
setting for the last act of a melodrama, it would
all be ! Sunset on the dredge. The reduced hero
shovelling mud while his beautiful young wife
Adeline keeps house in their galvanised iron hut
on t j le fj at . Then the hero shovels up the skull of
fh nrovioim earl nr the lost will nr the cine or
tlie Previous earl, or tne lost will, or the clue, Or
something—you can shovel up almost anything in
melodrama—and comes into his immense pro-
perty, and casts off the dredge for ever, after
paying a dividend of 2s. 6d. a share.
BODKINS, M.L.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elijah Bodkins, M.L. A,
Elect of Asphodel,
In his peculiar wooden way
Had served his country well !
And many a tender heart would grieve
On reading day by day
The weary wail
And tearful tale
Of Bodkins, M.L.A. !
lie sat at least one night per week
For ten’ weeks every year ;
He did not very often speak—
So few wdhld stay to hear ;
For five-and-twenty solid years
He did what in him lay
With no reward
(It seems so hard !)
Beyond his paltry pay !
Had lie kept out of Parliament,
With reasonable care
He might have been (what could prevent?)
A multi-millionaire !
For Bodkins was a man of brains,
He was no common clay ;
You may surmise
There were no flies
On Bodkins, M.L.A. !
Poor Bodkins went, of course, stone-broke,
And met with dire distress,
And many a kindly word it spoke—
The sympathetic press ;
And always to the same effect—
The same old tiresome bray-
The sacrifice
Beyond all price
Of Bodkins, M.L.A. !
This is the theory, by Jove !
This is the new belief:
A mm must die stone-broke to prone
He has not been a thief!
Which is a lot of weary rot,
And I for one must say
I’m growing sick,
Completely sick—
Of Bodkins, M.L.A. !
k,s. w.
W. T. GOODGE.


WiSd
7S
WOLFE’S Schnapps
MEANS BUSINESS WHEN IT TACKLES
YOUR KIDNEY TROUBLES!
Manufacturers
Our “ROCHESTER TIME
RECORDER.” The Sydney
Morning Herald says : “Gives
an accurate . statement of
every moment spent in the
factory iOn eacli job. The men
do their own recording, al-
though they are not called
upon to write so much as a
figure.”
The Sydney Bulletin says :
“ This amazing Recorder does
the discriminating, and picks
out the fast worker from the
slow. There is practically no
operation that the Recorder
cannot do better than a clerk,
and for an invisible fraction
of the cost.”
The Sydney Daily Tele-
oraph says: “It is an auto-
matic accountant working
without salary. The opera-
mm
krs
, MllltlSltHilfflHetn;
lllMtltllf lIIUIIIIHH
i:i9iiicifii|iiti{iin
lIMIIfIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIII
simtnnnmniMimi
l«;S®*SHif
tions of the Recorder are simple in the extreme, and it effects an immense saving'.”
The Town and Country Journal says : “ It tells what a workman is doing every minute of his time all the
time. This perfected Time Recorder has only been in existence two years, and no less than 60,000 are now in
use in the large factories and workshops in England and America.”
Write us for
Particulars.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
Sole Agents in
New South Wale
23 Hunter St, Sydney
“Hassan”: “Kaban”(B. 5/7/’O6) has
unconsciously touched upon the fringe of a large
subject. The facts he alleges, and a thousand
others, go to prove that the man who sneers at
the orthodox scientific nomenclature is a double-
barrelled ass. Visitors to Tasmania will be sur-
prised to find that the Tasmanian black snake is
a dark variety of our tiger. The Tasmanian
carpet snake is venomous; ours is not. Conse-
quently you stand a fair chance of rapid exter-
mination if you rely on the popular name in Tas-
mania. There is but one remedy for such con-
fusion-use the scientific names of the beasts
when you write, or speak of them. An instance
occurs to me. Everyone in Sydney has seen, or
caught, or eaten, a blackfish. But the whaler
applies this term to Gldbicephalus mclas, the pilot
whale. In spawning time the common European
salmon is referred to under the same name ; and
in Alaska the blackfish is a mud-minnow. In the
U.S. A. the sea-bass has appropriated the name,
and in Tasmania a freshwater fish, Gadopsis mar-
moratus, is, I believe, known as the blackfish.
Our own blackfish, by the way, is described
scientifically as Incisidens simplex. In future,
when Mulga Mick or Ooonabarabran Con write
to the “ Aboriginality ” department, let them so
refer to their fauna and flora that there can be
impossible doubt of the species under discussion.
Imagine, if you please, these two waltzing Matilda
together. Suddenly Mick utters a moan of
anguish. “D it, Con,” he cries, “there’s
one o’ them Myrmecia gulosas in me pants.”
Con throws scorn on the idea, while Mick un-
dresses hurriedly. “Can’t be; mus’ b eforficata,
y’ only gets gulosa on the coast.” Then discus-
sion arises as to a camping-place. “That there
Eucalyptus propinqua looks good an’ shady,” says
Con. Mick, whom the bull-dog ant has made
irritable, tells Con to “go an’ soak yer ’ead
Don’t ye know the difference between propinqua
and punctata yet ? ” Con holds that the two are
mere varieties, and Mick sneeringly suggests that
Con and Balaam's asinus are mere varieties too.
Whereupon Con smites Mick grievously across
the orbicularis oris, and Mick counters cleverly,
reaching Con’s inferior maxillary with a left
hook. They mix it for a while, and then Mick
emerges from the dust of battle seated upon Con’s
rectus abdominis. It seems rather a pity to bring
the fierce jealousies of science into the lazy har-
mony of the sundowner’s profession. But I fear
it is the only way to get rid of those confusing
names.
* * *■ *
“Manuka: Maoriland’s forest giants are
going fast. Near me there is a river containing
an unbroken stretch of 12 miles of kauri logs
awaiting the winter deluge to send them careering
to their destination. In some of the more
northerly rivers the big annual “shift” has com-
menced, and the mill manager rejoiceth. The
industry is playing Sheol with the primordial
forest beauty.
OPTIMISTIC.
HER ESCORT: “D-don't be alarmed, Julia ; after all, it may be of the gentler sex.”
It was oyi the occasion of a sectarian fes-
tival. A large collection had gone down the Bay,
and had had a gay, wet time. There was a crush
on the pier when the steamer was loading up with
picnickers to return, and a young man who had
been experimenting with the bottled brands till
he was dead-tired staggered overboard. Then
arose a great clamor. Someone rushed Mike
Hogan, crying: “Tim’s fell in the sea! Tim’s
drowndin’ ! ” Mike ran to the side, threw off his
coat an 1 dived in. Coming up, he swam to the
person who was thrashing the surface of the
water, and then turned, swam back to the landing
stage, and climbed the steps, muttering dis-
gustedly, . If I get hold iv the mahn fwhat put
oop that joke an me 111 do him a hur-r-t, so I
will/’ “ Why, what is it what does this mean ? ”
inquired a man in anthority. “ Whoi,” replied
Mike, “it ain’t Tim Finn what’s drowndin’ at
all, it s a stranger t me. Subsequently the
drowning person was fished out with a boat-
hook.
“ Silas Snell ” : The
most previous man I have
heard of was ’Kiah Wick-
shifter, of Cradle Creek.
Kiah was a hatter, living
on a selection down the
creek, and varying his
bucolic pursuits with a
little fossicking when the
need of cash was pressing.
The hatter’s nearest neigh-
bors were the Patens, and
although Wickshifter had
been living within half-a-
mile of their house for close
upon seven years, he had
scarcely exchanged a dozen
words with its occupants.
But when Paten caught
some distressing ailment
through clearing out a well
and neglecting to wear
flannel next his skin, Kiah
suddenly became very at-
tentive. He called re-
gularly to ask after Tim
Paten and to see if
there were any little
odd jobs he could do
for Mrs. Tim, such as
cutting the wood and
beating the growing
boys. Kiah’s kind-
ness was excessive.
He brought a vege-
table marrow with
him every time he
called, and when he
killed a pig he pre-
sented Mrs. Tim
with half the blood
and some choice
fragments. He mend-
ed the fence, and
carted up water from
the creek, and gave
Mrs. Paten sage ad vice
about the bees and the
fruit trees, and was as
obliging a neighbor as
you’d meet in a life-time.
He sat with Tim too, but as
Tim was very bad and
Kiah had no conversation,
this friendly action was not highly appreciated.
Everybody wondered at Kiah Wickshifter’s con-
duct, because he had the reputation all along
Cradle Creek of being cat-mean and abominably
unsociable. It came out one Sunday, when Kiah
confronted Mrs. Tim on the front verandah.
“ Tim’s dreadful bad to day,” he said. Mrs. Tim
feared he was. “ I don’t think he’ll get better.”
Mrs. Tim wiped her eye and was afraid he
wouldn’t. Then Kiah edged nearer. “ Well,
ma’am,” he said, insinuatingly, “if he don’t I
expect you’ll be rememberin’ them marrers, ’n’
give me the hist refusal.” “Meanin’ what?”
gasped Mrs. Tim. “ Meanin’ marry me, ma’am,”
said Wickshifter. Mrs. Tim’s reply was so heated
that Kiah did not call again for a week, and then
Tim Paten was better, and threw a marrow at
him with deadly aim.
* * * *
“ Nulla ” : To “ Elmore,” who asks “ Can
anyone name a bird of prey with a single note of
what could be called song ? ” allow me to intro-
duce the Australian butcher-bird, one of the finest
natural warblers in the bush. Further, there is
something down our street called a “ Mo,” which
cackles more or less—generally less—musically
when laying odds and things.
For simple directness the'"Afghan is hard
to beat. Here is the statement of one regarding
the Lismore (N.S. W.) murder. It is like a block
of ice carved with a razor :
T . ....
, 11 u a > and Zarut Khan occupied a hut on Quig-
eysfarm. One night I went out to hunt paddymelons
and P ossums from the crop. I left Rabmtulla lying down
an d Zarut Khan in the kitchen. I was away about an
f )our and a half. When coming back I heard a noise, and
the dogs were barking. I called out in his own language,
“Who is there? ” The reply came, “I am Zarut Khan ;
come here.” On going to him I asked, “ Why are you
digging the ground now?” Zarut Khan replied, “ Can’t
you see? Have you not got eyes? I have killed Rahm-
tulla. Don’t you talk too much, or I’ll cut your head off
and bury both of you.” He ordered me to sit down and
not go away. I had matches and struck one, and saw a
head wrapped in a blanket. It was that of Rahmtulla.
And these are fellow-subjects whom we should
welcome with open arms. Vide Bruce Smith
and Co.
EARLY RISING.
BUTVHER (to applicant for job): “ I’ll give yer
Jive bob a week fer a start.”
APPLICANT : “ Will I ’ave a charnee of an early
rise, sir?”
BUTCHER : “You will. You’ll rise at four o'clock
every morning.”
Lakes Alexandrina and Albert, just inside
the mouth of the Murray, are now all fresh water,
for the first time for four years, a strong sea out-
side having banked up the bar at the mouth into
a kind of dam.
* * * *
Eden (N.S.W.) Progress Association is
moving for the legal protection of the “killers,”
at Twofold Bay. The “killer” is a species of
cetacean ( orca gladiator), and he winters at the
bay every year, and helps along the local whaling
industry. He patrols the entrance to the bay,
and yards up any whale that cruises thereabouts.
The whalers then sally forth, and take charge of
operations. While the killing is going on, the
“ killers ” sheer off, but when the whale has been
killed by the men, the “killers” arrive for their
share of the spoil, viz., the
tongue and other bits. Then
they depart, and leaves the
blubber and whale-bone to
their human allies. The alliance
has lasted for many years now,
and the whalers are alleged
to know some of their marine
chums by nicknames. The
fishermen, however, see the
matter from another view-
point ; they say that while the
“killer” is around they get
few fish, and blame the whalers’
pal for the deficit. So the
fishermen threaten to kill the
“killers.” The local Progress
Association has appealed to
the N.S.W. Fisheries Board to
protect the “ killers,” and, inci-
dentally, the whaling industry,
instancing as a parallel case
the protection by law of Maori -
land’s famous dolphin, “Pel-
orus Jack.” The Board, how-
ever, says it has no power
under the Fisheries Act.
* * *
At the Atherton show
(N.Q.) the exhibit of the
Kamerunga State nursery included coffee, cocoa,
tobacco, resins, dyes, rubbers, spices, fibres
and stock foods in many varieties. A cotton gin
has lately been erected at the nursery, and not
only will the nursery authorities deal with the
cotton-farmer’s raw product, but will find a market
for the cotton afterwards.
* * ft *
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body, and
there will be no bad after-effects. We are talking
of Wolfe’s Schnapps*
HAY-TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Through the sweetly-scented hav-tiine,
When the shatters “ vvoh” and “gee” ;
Through the night and through the day-time
Linda’s lover in his play-time
Chants his bardic minstrelsee !
Fashions verses to the dray-time—
Rumbling on persistence!
O ! the girly, golden hay-time
(Lovers’ lips and poets’ bay-time !
And the backward wooer’s pay-time !)
Ever calls and captures me !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned, unless stamps (of, any State) accompany.
Phinegan : Writing good enough, but jokes a
shade too thin. What’s a very fat joke to a country
clergyman looks rather attenuated when it has been
trucked to The Bulletin office. Hope you’ll try again...
Asp. : Thanks muchly, but of course we couldn’t print
your compliments... .J.R. : All Bulletin pictures are
either drawn in Australia or by Australians temporarily
exiled in Europe Stair: It’s probably Mr. Fitchett’s
clerical training that makes him inaccurate in that
newspaper matter.... W.M.: Has some good points, but
straggles too much... .D.H.R. : Yarn of how you sold
the pills shows a shocking innocence as to methods of
business.. Wooa : Sample of “ wit” not up to our mark..
F.E.H. : Twaddlesome and unliterary A.S.S. : Not
up ; but not quite so bad as your initials would imply.
Warrigal: Interest too feeble in both E.W.B. : We
have no use for such a trifle.... Tim I).: Stumbles too
much in the metre... .Glad H. : A lamentable stave
about a dreary subject.. . .H.C.W. : Brightly written,
but belated and much too long-.... Longun : Would suit a
woman’s paper... .E.It.S.P. : Pretty good ideas in pretty
bad verse....A.McG. : Both hopelessly ill-done....
J.C.D. : Wouldn’t dream of printing that. It is rank
sectarianism itself.... Bali T. : Doggerel of the deepest
dye... .H.A.W. : The subject gets you down and rolls on
you.... Emu: A dreary dribble of commonplaces....
Salvia: Foolishly digressive and circumlocutory....
T.O’D. : 111-directed vigor and calamitous syntax
D.K. : You have all the self-confidence of gross ignor-
ance Bert M. : “Squaring Up” is very crude in
places Glanville H. : Some poetic quality, but the
themes are trite and the treatment indifferent Ink-
waster : Hardlv that, though it’s not a brilliant effort
Nan: Too unskilful a hand J.N.G. : Far-fetched and
overdone F.S.J.: A puerile production... .S.T.: “Too
Bate ” another wail (and a poor one) about the girls we
didn’t kiss B. : Not much struck by “The Vision.”....
Cohen : Nothing useful among last batch of suggestions...
Alex. K. : Lively in spots, but elsewhere the “ vamping”
is too obvious H.P.T.: Simply unintelligible Hobo :
The difference is that, while an heir-apparent must
inherit, unless he dies, an heir-presumptive may be
barred by the birth of a more direct successor....
Pukeko : Rather crude caricature.... W. Mac : Hope-
lessly out of our line Pessimist: They don’t “fill the
bi 11.”... .Capian : Somewhat rubbishy’ Patience : Not
brightly enough treated... .Wattle-Blossom : “Situa-
tion ” very hackneyed Kotuku : No, the-e is only one
“Commonwealth” in the world. Canada calls itself a
Dominion. The last “Commonwealth” was in the
England of Cromwell’s days... .H.J.L. : Can’t allow liars
located in America to compete with local men in the
Abo. column. We believe in Protection for native liars.
.... Emu : Can’t acknowledge pars, in this column. Yours
haven’t enough kick in them.. .. Kerani: Insufficiently
stamped letter to hand Walter N. : The consumption
“cure’’you mention is no good Gidya : Rather well
done, but the idea has been too often used Mark M. :
Too insignificant Rita S. : “Plough” pretty good in
places, but perilously akin to nonsense in others
Kelpie: Don’t care for it Wane: Awkward
and ineffective Sunny Jim : Doesn’t quite
hook-on Bushy: Not very intelligible L.S.A. :
Rather weak and wordy Stirling T. : Thanks
Flaglocker: “There are not enough British seamen
offering for the merchant service.” That’s precisely it,
and there are not enough because the job is too poor a
one to attract the Boy of the Bullpup Breed. The 101,000
seamen employed in the navy don’t exhaust the possi-
bilities of the nation Elmore: We don’t want to start
Abo. discussions which will fill much space ard be of very
little interest. A pig in its natural state can swim
all right; in its super-fatted state it often can’t....
Lantana: All the arguments in favor of disfranchising
women, “ that they don’t understand politics ” and so on,
whether true or untrue, don’t affect the issue. The
principle of one adult one vote is that every re-
sponsible citizen, foolish or wise, who has to obey
the laws Should have a voice in making them
Lawyer: Doesn’t affect the point that the demand is
illegal and shouldn’t be made. The client should write
his “ threatening-proceedings ” letter himself if he doesn’t
want to pay for it D.K. : Yarn that the Chinese feed
the “ foreign devils ” on human flesh too horrible to print
in detail; and vou don’t seem to have the best authority.
However, to take the benefit of the doubt, Tiie Bulletin
will still refuse to patronise Chinese cook-shops Un-
suitable : Micawber.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. J.P. : Picture no good ; joke not much good and old
to boot F.J. : “Woodman Spare that Tree” too
wooden... .E.D. :No use as pictures and not humorous
enough for suggestions... .G.H.S. : “Would I Were a
Bird” has no points about it A.R.B. : Drawing not
bad, but it is a very poor subject Snag: A solitary
figure running is hardly enough for a picture... .Ande :
“Storm-Cloud” seems" to represent a naked kid with
absurdly short legs (Australia) and Sherlock Holmes in a
sheet and a helmet (supposed to be England), down in a
quarry on a wet day D.C. : Impossible youth talking
to unutterable barmaid... .Jack V. : One rejected ; one
under consideration C.E.J. : Inferior collection of
microbes Wing Tiy : Picture of doorway and two legs
showing declined H.W. (Queensland): Your horrid
monster isn’t horrid enough Miss B. : Dog and bottle
picture declined —after some hesitation K.A.: Picture
of gentleman unlocking door with bottle declined....
Alluradge : Very crude picture of shapeless Salvationist.
... .Fag : Declined with unobtrusive firmness A.J.H.:
Not much novelty in the suggestion N. Gine : Don’t
see the joke. That may be our fault; certainly it is your
misfortune Ethel B.: We’ve had that joke before.
The latest proposed importation from
England is a shrieking evangelist of the hell-fire
brand, to toil among the co-operative laborers on
Maoriland’s North Island main trunk line, they
being regarded (by parsondom) as a particularly
bad lot who require desperate measures. The
proposer is Bishop Wallis (himself imported at
great cost), and he told the synod, in a resigned
inflection of voice, that if they couldn’t get the
correct article in England, he supposed they
would have to use the best man they could find
within the State. And his depressed tone made
it sound as if he was saying that they would have
to do the best they could with local trash. It is
the old, old story ; prayer never produces the best
results unless the Almighty is addressed with an
Oxford bleat.


jjre *cc«s*fon we trot"
c/uc for foor
fforri politicians "to shiff^'^e-
d«t"Y °f j )roy, i£i n '?) f or '^®" 5 °ff
1 own s ”
Cyrj
T?e boor . * Irr 7 *U 0 oh7lh
styoHtecocK —'ttjV's ]_s>*)
I id of OtffMSV' live ("
Ik
° • 2
Amm s
wqgmw
VWBMsJ#.'!
l3 €r ,r;-' o \
Weil —electi ot\
Coming Oh \
Soon So \
We? II
1 Jr
wo *7ore
al>our.r!",
wr^ple,
Valedictory v'otie d f
~fe Y\K kvi^e
v A yjriter i~o Ttje
Corrtpl^lh) s tele^r^nr,
cle A M
2.37. P M- a
dis^ nC€ fcoile
go orilTsh editors >
'follorf 'ftjt
r Cook\ Aw^liX-
nm
/T~
/*>>'
/fY'
/W
/m
/J'
-.4
|HHe vr
w % !
John Bull's unsv&sidiseo
Art Nursert
Mta!N)
'/
"Once lrish |
|>tyer seTfl/e Wfjolt
fourjcil affdefiance V :
[forio defmf?
fo Ci'lof A j»r
j>olicenj2vnJ
Who couM
Sctej* wittT bz}[ Z Joy.ri
Juicy y»hroticfe4
,-lrey? ’’
Could
2yl| ifs it' Would }y\
d”i|*TC .tlWe Duilt'oj, a,
JjoHn.ford. l%tferson^
Ttn^ir/gr
4Jr
Z|oweK«
He &
m *7 /
Hot I
fluid/
ON YARRA’S STRAND.


ĥ
/ip i ajs- /(L _
COk'uC o m
-pA "RsL- 1 Cu
/R CL Gj
SNAPSHOT VIEWS OF SYDNEY, JULY. 1906.


\
The World's;:
s Dentifrice
PERSONAL ITEMS.
McGregor Dey, the small-squatter Laborite
'vho is to opposeGlyntt, in Angas (S.A.),
has publicly renounced FOreign-trade, tif which hfe
Was dnbb a prolific newspaper advocate, ahd has
bebdrne “a converged, convinced arid borifiriiifed
Protfebtiohist.”
A less hopeful note about Kingston :
Kirgston is still v'ehy feeble, arid cdniiot wdlk Without
support. He is very seldom seen itl Adelaide streets now,
? ear *.v akVays in d vehicle. It is very question-
dble Whether he will bte Well Chough to stand for Adelaide
dt the next election.
** N.” : Your correspondent is wrong in
Saying that William IV. and Queen Adelaide
Were childless. They had two wretched little
girls, who died in infancy. Queen Victoria would
\?r S - IS j on kee P' n S a sickly statuette of one at
Windsor Castle. I expect Ned has thrown it in
the coal-hole.
According to one statement the Dailey
divorce case cost £OOOO, a fearful sum to spend on
mud-throwing. The suit resulted as it was clear
from the first it would result. But. the unhappy
marriage might have been dissolved, without the
mud-bath, at a cost of £OO. And £5940 is a huge
amount to pay for a mud-bath.
Ex “Brigadier” Bruntnell isn't the first
of the Salvarmy to get into N.S.W. Assembly.
Twelve years ago, full private Turner shouldered
in the red guernsey as member for Gunnedali.
But Speaker Abbott wouldn’t let him implore the
House to chuck in another tuppence and make
the collection up to a bob, and so he moved about
alone, a sad, disappointed figure, and disappeared
at the first decent chance.
The personal column of the dailies is
mostly devoted to the worship of the Golden Calf;
even dead men get space in proportion to the
contents of the moneybags dumped down before
the Probate Judge. On July 2fi the S.M. Herald
dealt with three dead men in succession. One
left £47.650, the second £41,948, and the third
£BOO. The Her Ann gave the first a Tin. niche in
its Calf temple, the second 6Ain., and the third
half an inch.
Alfred Beit, wild-catter, of South Africa,
died leaving, it is rumored, £25,000,000. He
bequeathed some of it, to charities. That is the
way of the multi-millionaire. He spends his life
making thousands of people poor, so that he may
have a thousand times as much money as he
knows what to do with. Then he dies younger
than he should do, worn out with the struggle to
get more money than he has even time to look at,
and leaves a large sum to charity, for the relief of
paupers who would he honest, independent, self-
supporting citizens, but for him and others like
him. If the race of great accumulators lasts long
enough, they will ultimately, among them, leave
the whole globe to charity, and make all the
world a Benevolent Asylum.
“ SQUAWMAN ” WALDRON,
FROM U.S.A.
“Brother Charles,” the very human
parson who runs a High Anglican Church organisa-
tion m the back country, tells in the Bush
Brother how “the parson’s horse” is usually a
synonym for famishing equine misery, but his own
horse is differentthriftl
It is therefore with considerable pride that we an-
nounce that Brother Charles won the blue ribbon for
lady’s hack at the Dubbo Show with his bay mare
*■*.
Papist priest s horse is generally one of the best in
tneciistrict.)
Hussey Malone Chomley, ex-Chief Com-
missioner of Victorian Police, who died the other
Sts of
editor of the Melbourne Herald. George has
had a varied career. He was the son of a West
Indian planter who went to Melbourne and became
an auctioneer. He joined the cadets in his teens ;
then went to India and became one of Richardson’s
Horse, and got wounded in the foot. Became
Englishman at Calcutta; returned
to Melbourne and wrote several novels. In 73
he became editor of the Herald, with Kyrle
Bellew on the staff ; then went to the Lands Office,
under King J. J. Casey ; and back on the Herald
»*»“. I*"*. i« I-™™ *ig and shaven face,
George is unrecognisable by old chums.
“ C.G.8.”: ** Bony Fred,” quoted in Bun-
tKTiN (5/7/’O6), is not reliable. The grave of
Maoriland’s one-time Premier, Ballance, is kept
in good order, and is one any corpse might be
proud of. If Seddon’s is as well kept i 3 years
hence he will have every reason to shake hands
with his own ghost
Little Ikey Cohen, the present Holder of
the Victorian Scholarship, has statted a course of
art study at the Academie Colarossi, in Paris.
Cohen is expected to prove a brilliant successor to
Longstaff and Abbey Altson, the two first winners
(m the ’Bo’s) of the Scholarship. He has real
talent, ana—which is equally important in a young
artist—a Jewish capacity for avoiding the dam-
foolishness of a Bohemian life.
Adelaide Register has interviewed an old
lady who lives on a farm within two miles of the
G.P.O. of the S.A. capital, said farm havingsome-
how survived while suburbs have grown up all
around. The ancient spinster still milks eight or
ten cows a day ; also she can remember being
fairly bushed where the busy Bundle-street now
is. But her chief claim to distinction is that she
has never been off the farm anywhere, even across
the road, for half a century! In her girlish days
the present racecourse was thick scrub, and her
father didn’t liJce her going through it; so she got
out of the way of going into town, and doesn’t
miss town. The last time she took that perilous
journey was when she “just ran in to hear the
result of the Crimean war.”
The last will and testament of Martin
Lotighlin, of Ballarat mining memory, made a
humorous appearance at the Vic. Supreme Court
last week, and, strangely enough, the lawyers
didn’t derive much pickings from the joke, Seems
that Martin L. left a bequest of £3OO to a god-
child, one of whose front names was Martin. But
the infant had died before the will was drawn up,
whereas another god-child named Martin was
born subsequently, and is now in a position to
'mjov £3OO. The Court decided that the testator
had been thinking of the unborn god-child when
he bequeathed the legacy to the dead one. God-
fathers are entitled to some latitude.
Old Benjamin Lee, who enjoyed a golden
wedding while in the vicinity of his 89th
or noth birthday last week, was one of the princi-
pals in a Parliamentary Donnybrook of nearly 40
years'ago. He then sat in N.3.W. Assembly for
nest Maitland. On a sectarian issue between
Parkes and Archbishop Polding, MTherson, of
Central Cumberland, called Hairy Henry a
“ blackguard.” A tumult arose, in which Jack
Robertson, Dr. Lang, William Forster, James
Martin, Speaker Arnold, and other celebrities
took part, and, at its height, Benjamin Lee had
a fine row with M'Pherson. The two were sepa-
rated after a while, and for nearly a fortnight
Parliament tried to decide what to do with them.
In the end it did nothing in particular, having
lost the run of the case in a fearsome shindy
about the Walls of Derry.
Some birthdays for August : Dr. Fitz-
gerald (Melb.), GB, Dr. J. C. Vereo (Adel-
aide), 55, and Judge Murray (N.S.W.) 64, on
the Ist; Prime Minister Deakin 50, on the
3rd ; Justice O’Connor (High Court), 55 on
the 4th; Music Professor Ennis, 42 on the
sth; Rolf Boldrewood, 80, and Attorney-
General Isaacs, 51 on the 6th ; Ex-Agent-
General Grainger (S.A.), 58 on the 7th:
Poynton, M.H.R., 53, Paris Nesbit, 54, and
George Turner, 55 on the Bth ; Governor
Chelmsford (Q), 38 on the 12th ; Professor
Rennie (Adelaide), 54, and Register pro-
prietor R. K. Thomas (Adelaide), 55 on the
19th ; Hutchison, M.H.R., 47 on the 20th ;
Senator Fraser, 71, Bishop Dwyer (Mait-
land), 48, Bishop Pain (Gippsland), 65, Poet
Ogilvie. 37, and Ronald, M.H.R., 46 on the
21st; Treasurer John Forrest, 59, Purves,
K.C., 64, and politician Moore (Tas.), 83 on
the 22nd; State Geologist Brown (S. A.),
62, J. C. W illiamson, 61, and Ex-Premier
Coekburn (S.A.), 56 on the 23rd ; Glynn,
M.H.R., 51 on the 25th ; Professor Lyle
(Melb.), 46, and Chairman of Committees
Coombe (S.A.), 48 on the 26tb ; Premier
Kids ton (Q.), 57 on the 27th ; Mrs. Palmer
(Rosina Martha Hozanah Carandini di Sar-
zano), 62, and Military Commandant Ricardo,
51 on the 28th ; President Dodery (Tas.), 87
on the 30th.
Percy Hunter, the pushing pressman
who pushed himself into a N.S.W. Govern-
ment billet, lately took a party of tourists to
Kiandra under the auspices of the new
State Tourists’ office. Kiandra is 2000 ft.
higher than the proposed Federal capital at
Dalgety, and when the party walked eight
miles through about a yard of snow it said
things. Percy Hunter saw to it that his old
paper, the Telegraph, got lots of news each
flay of the doings of Mr. Percy Hunter, with
a casual reference to the tourists and a note
of admiration for Mr. P. Hunter. The
ordinary public servant, who has worked
himself up by examinations and hard graft,
stands amazed at the sight of Mr. Percy
Hunter taking all this limelight. The usual
way of the State is for the figure-head of
the Department to annex all the glare and
gas and glory, and for the subordinates to be
mentioned only when things go wrong. The
Percy Hunter method strikes the service
favorably.
On Sydney streets may be occasionally
seen a battered, weather-beaten ancient, which
same was a Royal Engineer officer and once
Acting-Governor in one of the West Indies.
King Billy, who died at La Perouse
(N.S.W ) last week, was a species of aboriginal
Joe Cook. His own class was odious to him.
Anyone wanting a scalding denunciation of the
thriftless, quarrelsome character of the blacks in
the tents about La Perouse, or in the country
for that matter, had only to start Billy on the
theme. He considered he had risen to the white
man’s level; he wore a tall hat, and when possible
put a shine on his boots, and he was fond of saying
that other blackfellows could attain equal dis-
tinction, if they properly laid themselves out for
it. But they grovelled in Socialism, as Billy held,
and had no taste for superior society, and were
without ambition to raise themselves, and so were
doomed to live and die in squalor and poverty.
Lucas’s new life of essayist Charles Lamb
quotes a pleasant little curse of Lamb’s, which
may be commended to the notice of importers’
clerks who are forced to struggle through quan-
tities of after-hours work, as “Elia” was afore-
time :
These “ merchants and their spicy drugs,” which are so
harmonious to sing of —they lime-twig up my poor soul
and body till I shall forget I ever thought myself a bit of
a genius. Confusion blast all mercantile transactions, all
traffic, exchange of commodities, intercourse between
nations, all the consequent civilisation and wealth and
annty, and links of society, and getting rid of prejudices,
and knowlege of the face of the globe—and rot the verv
iirs of the forest that look. §Q romantic alive, and die into
desks !
THE EVIL EYE.
“ I say, Mister, I’m an unlucky beggar, I am,
I thought of So-and-So, and he died, and I
thought of Blank, and he died, and I thought
of Blinker, and he died, too. Give us sixpence
and I won’t think of you."
S. Mesley, of Oineo (Vic.), is the latest
Australian who has received a foreign appoint-
ment. He will superintend mining operations in
the Congo Free State, under the Belgian Govern-
ment. While Australia is continually sending to
the old world for experts in various trades and
sciences, other countries recognise the value of
our home-grown article. The export of Austra-
lian talent is steadily growing for want of ade-
quate local encouragement.
Walter La wry Buller, K.C.M.G., who was
born at Bay of Islands (M.L.) in October, 1838,
died recently in London. He was appointed
Government interpreter at Wellington in 1855,
and edited a weekly Maori paper, Te Karere o
Poneke. Subsequently he edited the Maori
Messenger, a paper in English and Maori; and,
later still, was promoter and editor of the Maori
Intelligencer. In 1862 he was appointed resi-
dent magistrate, and, in 1865, judge of the Native
Land Court. In the same year he was present as
a volunteer at the capture of the Wereroa pah.
In 1871 he went to England as secretary to the
Agent-General. He was called to the Bar in
1874, and returned to Maoriland and practised
till 1886. Since then he has been mostly an
absentee.
“Spring ” urges a Minister to cheer up :
When N.S.W. Lands Minister Ashton starts to speak it
is as if a heavy fog had climbed over the bright horizon,
and blanketed the House in gloom. Ashton is a burly
-man, with a settled aspect of wisdom. He uses big, lum-
bering, complex sentences, the opening clauses of
which totter away off the line, and die of senile
decay in the wilderness, before the end of the
remark comes out of the tunnel. The hearers
hope and trust that the depressing manner is affected,
but they who know are aware that Ashton stands and
talks as the Architect designed. Ashton never uttered a
glad, big, inconsequent whoop of joy in all his days.
Some fond female friend should advise the depress-
ing Minister to array himself in a gaudy tie, a
startling suit, and a gorgeous vest; to wear a
white buttonhole of virtue on his breast, a pair
of large, humorous specs., and a cummerbund, &c.,
like Arthur Griffith when he’s out to stagger the feminine
world; to carry a light and airy cane ; and to take leap-
ing exercise among the flowers. The change might be
dreadful, but the world will prefer to gaze upon such a
scene rather than upon the present lone pyramid of dark,
moss-grown sorrow.
Fussy little gaud mayor Weedon, after
bossing Melbourne Town Hall for a year, would
have retired into the bottom stope of the pit of
oblivion next November but for some casual
circumstances. There were three other aspirants
for next year’s loan of the chain and ’possum
rug—Brenan, an alderman ; Hennessey, a bore;
and Burston. There was every prospect of a bitter
triangular scrum, so Brenan, Hennessey and
Burston held a caucus, and decided to save the
smoke and flame of needless battle by asking
Weedon to stay at the job for another year. The
proposition was made in the mayoral room, when
all the other councillors were present, and every-
one had to support it. Weedon nearly perished
with joy ; but he said it was so sudden, and asked
for time to think about it.. All the councillors
grinned in their beards or their hats, for they
knew that Henry was dying to jump at them and
shriek hysterically “Yes!’’ After grave considera-
tion. which lasted nearly 84 hours, the gaud
mayor consented (reluctantly) to decorate the
throne for another year.
Leaving out Thomas Waddell, who didn’t
get much of a chance. Joe Carruthers is regarded
by old Parliamentarians as the personally-weakest
Premier of the N.S.W. political roster. Farnell
was of little note, and Jennings could be pushed
about with impunity, but yet they counted with
their associates and the public. What Carruthers
thinks about anything is hardly ever mentioned
by his associates ; they all jog alone, trusting to
Parliament or the press to suggest things, and
prepared to drift with any breeze that doesn’t
blow too hard.
Melbourne preacher Judkins has, on an
average, a dozen police at each of his meetings,
and the result is that, while these are employed
ejecting people who rise to ask questions, the
suburb which J. happens to be visiting is left
without police protection, and burglars have a
merry time. Since Judkins’ crusade started,
small crime has shown a startling increase, and it
would be interesting to obtain a return showing
the number of offences committed with impunity
while Judkins is breathing heated air in the local
hall. It would also be interesting to learn who
pays for the police to act as chuckers-out for the
small man with the Dickensesque name.
“ Kotuku ” writes
The littleness of Richard John Seddon, which
it is treason to mention while the funeral
baked moats are still warm, was equal to his
greatness. In him vanity was constitu-
tional. Once upon a time, when he was
merely Minister of Public Works
, to Ballance, he refured to
travel in a special carriage
on the railways. Whereat
the porters stood round
and cheered, as reverence
forbade them do when
Governor Jervois
stepped with his accus-
tomed sang froid into
a democratic “ smok-
er.” In those days,
too, Seddon wore
Crimean shirts.
But office, as usual,
rubbed those sim-
plicities off Richard,
and by and bye the
enforced presence of
secretariesand type-
writers drove him
into the luxurious
seclusion of special
carriages. Seddon
had a passion for
being photographed.
No matter how urg-
ent his work, he
would always wave
his arms to the ac-
companying multi-
tude and range
them up behind or
beside him for the
benefit of Tom, Dick
or Harry with the
camera. It is be
Cause of his vanity
that there are so
few photographs of
Dick that are any-
thing like the man
himself. The best
are those —they are
few enough—that
were taken una-
wares. Seddon al-
ways had his eye on
the reporters, and on
more than one occa-
sion laid complaints with
editors against pressmen whom he noticed to lay down
their pencils while he was telling the democracy for the
738th time, somewhere between Whangamomona and
Putikituna, that the crimson thread of kinship, under the
glorious folds of the good old mother flag, linked the
people of Kuripapango with those of Muchly-mm-Spilsby.
He had no idea of the value of news and the uselessness
of “ flam ” about himself and about the lists of people
who signed illuminated addresses. When the Ministerial
organ appeared in the morning with about two “ Sticks”
out of 3£ columns that he had laboriously dictated, his
anger was a thing to be avoided.
A meal-time incident at Federal Parlia-
ment House : A kindly member desired to attract
the attention of his brother man, who, in this case,
was a waiter. “Brother!” he called, gently.
No response. A little louder, “ Brother ! ” The
waiter continued to gaze pensively into the past.
The next attempt was “Friend ! Friend!” The
immovable waiter looked benign as he mused on
the “tips” of yester-year. The politician made
another effort—“ Here, you ! ” Then the waiter
came.
“Top”: How easy it is to be popular!
Recently had a conversation with a retired Vic-
torian mounted constable who had been Governor’s
orderly for years. Said he : “Loch was a beast.
If I had been out with him all day in a soaking
rain, he would never ask me if I had a mouth on
me. When I got back to Government House
with Canterbury, wet day or fine day, he always
said, ‘ Take a glass before unsaddling.’ Canter-
bury was the finest Governor this country ever
had, sir.”
“Dico”: Be remark of “Philo” (B.
12/7/’O6) that Bret Harte could not be half a
Hebrew, because his mother was not a Jewess,
and the father didn’t count. This is a survival
of the Asiatic plan of making sure of the descent.
Among the savages of the South Seas, the heir-
ship of kings is always derived from the mother.
It is toq difficult to determine who was the
father. As the Spanish girl remarked, “Quien
sabe ? ”
An overhaul of one branch of the Queens-
land Railway Department is said to have revealed
over 600 separate financial skeletons, all accumu-
lated under the regime of those “ business men.”
Philp and his predecessors.
The usual joke of a N.S.W. electionis the
“dead bird ” that is going to oust Bill Lyne from
his nest. There’s always a sure thing to be run
against Bill. The importers, who have a venom-
ous hatred of him, put up the money, and a confi-
dent candidate is found, and the constituency is
canvassed, and it’s reckoned all over, barring the
Foreign-trade newspapers singing joyful songs at
Lyne’s funeral. But Bill, looking more like a
rogue elephant than ever, pricks up his trunk,
tramps around a bit, and there is a squashed can-
didate in that constituency for sure. Last week
Pumpkin Smith was mooching around Lyne’s
district, looking for the usual sure thing to run
against Bill; but if that amiable vegetable were
wise he would keep all his work for his own elec-
torate, where the Protectionist newspaper is
making things ready for a National candidate.
Of course, Pumpkin Smith isn’t going to run
against Lyne himself. The man who is to do the
long-postponed deed is said to be James Gibb, the
Freetrader who was returned for B linders (Vic.)
in 1903 on a minority vote, because four candi-
dates split the suffrages, and who doesn’t think
Flinders worth contesting again.


ANTHONY HORDERN'S SALE
FIFTE-EN ACRES of Sale Bargains in Full Bloom for
THREE WEEKS. Fail not to Reap a Harvest of Joy.
$
\ *
i ii*sS
s®
gg
•fiCSS
I'lHlfl
eii
1 1 !
1 niii I
nr
S_Wl
OTH
I ci^tav,**■:-'
-ft
' -rS
£r
-Wi
on the Historic slope of brickfield hill
■ ■ V,'
July 30tK
• • to • •
August 18th
Both Days
Inclusive.
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY-
The increase of Federal power in Aus-
tralia seems wanted in an especial manner
to keep State law tribunals to one common
letter. At present, for instance, Justice Hol-
rovd has held, and it remains the law in
his State, that Victoria is not a British pos-
session but only part of one since its inclusion in
the Commonwealth ; whereas Justice Real holds,
and that is the law in his State, that Queens-
land, though included in the Commonwealth, is
still a British possession. Several constitutional
powers possessed by a territory that is a British
’possession are denied to territories that are only
parts of a possession, and while the Judges thus
disagree, what is lawful in one part of Australia
is unlawful in another. Westralian Judges have
laid down the same law as Real.
Vic. Premier Bent has planted a heavy
foot on a farmer’s suggestion that, instead of
granting the shires £lOO,OOO a year to help them
build their roads (say at the rate of 125 miles a
year), he should borrow money involving the
payment of £lOO,OOO a year in interest (about
£2,500,000), and make 3125 miles of road in one
fell scoop. The farmer’s theory is that the State
should pay the £lOO,OOO a year interest, while the
shires provide a sinking fund of per cent.
(£37,500 a year) to reduce the principal debt. But
Bent knows Victorian shires too well to take on a
proposition like that. It is safer to lend money
to a welsher than to the men who run Shire Coun-
cils in Victoria.
A WONDERFUL ENTERTAINER!
THE GLOBE
1 CINEMATOGRAPH
PRICE—
£IB 10s.
Write for
Particulars.
\
akk
• wo “'" n
Ki
TTTTfI newest and finest instrument ever, offered at the price. The Cinematograph is a
wonderful entertainer. The Mechanism is on the Star Wheel principle, of sound con-
struction, and well finished. The Spools are 7f inches in diameter, and will hold 600 ft.
of Films. The Body is made of Russian Iron, and is large enough for any size Arc Lamp, is
mounted on a Polished Ash Base, and it slides over on metal runners to bring the Condenser
into position with the Lantern Projection Lens. The Optics are first quality, and consist of a
Cinematograph Lens and an 8-inch Lantern Lens. A Carrier is included to act as a
cut-off. The whole apparatus is sent out in a well-made cabinet, bound with iron corners,
and iron handle.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
•MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
EST? 178 2~j»
PHOENIX
Assurance Company of London
117 flTl Si., STOREY (Falmouth Chambers),
LTD.
WILLIAM M. FARMER, Maputo
THE SUREST WAY.
ħ
THE simplest, easiest, cheapest and most cleanly
way to get Good Photographs is . . .
To Taße Them
with A KODAK
Develop them in daylight, with a Kodak Developing
Machine, and print them on . . .
‘Austral’ Pearl Paper
Which is always bright, clean, fresh
and free from all defects.
KODAKS
At all Prices
from
a
A
BAKER & ROUSE
PROP.
LTD.
Sole Australian Agents for KODAK LIMITED,
and all Dealers’ Supplies ...
375 $ 377 Georg'e St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane <§2. Adelaide.


That puny piece of would-be political ad-
vertisement, tlje proposal to invite a number of
English editors to Australia, indicates the intel-
lectual poverty of those who think they can thus
advance this country’s credit. Editors worth
having are not likely to spare the time to come in
droves of 30 or 50. The best men would decline
in any case to be recipients of public hospitality,
lest they might afterwards feel a difficulty about
dealing with Australian affairs. The editors, if
any, who would accept would be of the cheap-
feed variety, and not worth the average cost per
head.
Be Your Own Beauty Doctor.
If you have a complexion that has a muddy or faded
appearance, or be troubled with blackheads, freckles and
wrinkles, or any skin blemishes whatever, you can easily
exchange for a skin without a blemish, a complexion
radiant with a transparent freshness, a clear, smooth, and
perfect skin that is so much to be admired. This is the
kind of complexion that we guarantee if you will give
Valaze a fair trial. Price 3s. 6d., or large jar 6s. (contain-
ing three times the amount), 6d. postage. Leading
chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Dr. Lykuski’s Special Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pores Cure—guaranteed to cure most
obstinate cases—2s. 6d. tin, by post 3s. Valaze Herbal
Soap, lasts six months, 2s. cake. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to cover Postage and we will forward you our latest edi-
tion of the “ New' Guide to Beauty,” a book that is full of
most valuable information concerning the skin and
health, and will prove most useful and instructive
to anyone.*
6
o
lV*
ft*
'cmMb
daw
Grt
&
4A
IM,
JWtr
Uid
wm
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
h
/eEA\?eNETTES
IlsK Are the Ideal Fabrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
. Sydney, July 31, 1906.
Mt Dear Abini.—
Opening of the new spring millinery is causing
Sydney women to buck up, as if they’d got atonic
to suit their constitutions. One of the interesting
innovations is the “ drenched ” ostrich plume. The
various madames who are showing the new modes
here are now quite used to such remarks as,
“What awfully dejected-looking feathers! Not
an atom of curl in them. Why, they must have
got a wetting!’’ The mode came about'through
a swarm of fashionables at a smart race meeting
near Paris getting drenched with rain. A lot of
cinnamon brown tulle is used in trimming against
the hair at the back. Plumes of si laded rose-
color and plumes of shaded brown and green are'
“ in.” There’s a shade of Natier blue come along
that ought to suit the multitude of women with
grey-blue eyes. It’s a beautiful soft tone, like
cornflowers seen in a mist—a clean white mist,
not a London fog, the color of a crow or a bell-
topper. The sailor shapes have huge crowns,
and the brims are covered with trimming, such
as a soft thick plait of soft radiant ribbon. Moss
is “in”—this is about the fourth thing I have
mentioned as being “in.” If you gather moss
now you’ll be smartly millinered. The straws are
mostly dyed Leghorns, Tegals, Chips, and a most
dandy one called ribbon crinoline. A model of
the Georgette hat was a big Leghorn, wide-
brimmed, with a huge faded rose on the crown
and a torrent of pale blue ribbon foaming down
the back. Big-crowned mushrooms will have a
vogue, and bleached peacocks’ tail feathers are
on one out of every six hats. Perhaps the bleach-
ing takes the ill-luck as well as the color out of
this feather. The Bateau lias a far-off likeness to
the Indian dug-out canoe from which it is named.
In a harbor city such as Sydney, it would be well
if one could paddle one’s own canoe, and so save
ferry fares, and wear the craft as a hat when on
land.
Talking of hatters. Some Sydneysiders will
remember a fashionable dressmaker, Miss Mary
Jones, who left here with Miss Eadlth Walker.
Ihe latter has set up Miss Jones as a milliner in
Bond-street, London. So a returned earth-trotter
tells me. Several Australians and Maorilanders
have entered successfully into hatty and frocky
competition with the English on the latter’s own
ground. Ihe first to do so from here were the
I hrogmorton girls, connections of the Wrench
(Richardson and Wrench) family.
Next year certain Sydney milliners and dress
creators are going to retaliate (or, let us say,
reciprocate) on Melbourne. A star-pair of dress-
builders from the Yarra banks came here a couple
of weeks ago and raked in orders for the spring
racing frocks. This week a pair of nice girls from
the same State are holding a Hat Show at a
fashionable Potts Point boarding-house. This
kind of going to and fro on the face of the earth
is something new.
An Australian, who thegiddy trill and
warble under Marchesi, in Paris, has a good deal
to say about the American woman in that centre
of frocks and pa aces, it is absolutely necessary,
she alleges, for the Australian who goes shopping,
and who hasn’t a Crcesus behind her, to proclaim
a,ll along the route that she is not American. The
Americans fling their shekels about so lavishly in
the effort to advertise that shops have special
prices for their special benefit, and everyone
, lo ,°£ s hke a P American is fleeced right and
left. Ihe American warblers, too, have a par-
ticular musical critio to write them up, both in
their own and the French press, and frankly
declare the Australian triller will never have
much show of success until she also hires
her tame critic to feed out of the paw.
■But this statement loses its avoirdupois
when one considers what a big innings Australia
is having in the singing line, and what poor
results America shows by comparison. Ameri-
cans, says the same damsel, don’t get on, as a
™ e ! with Marches!. I hey are either so imperti-
wth/ H 1 ® ol d dame that she urges them to
withdraw from the light of her countenance, or
so meek that she can t get a word out of them.
Mostly they are the former.
Li relation to some announcements to the effect
tha,t clerics object to ladies dabbling in theology,
it is worth noting that there is one
Australasia m which men seem more than satisfied
to give the lead to women. That is dog-fancying.
A hidy heads the N.B.W. Scottish Skye and
Dandy Dinmont Club. In Victoria the Prahran
Pdf b „°,T y ' aS g ,° ne , ur l der fche Presidency of a
lady, and, goinga little abroad, a lady has become
land A f m' e ? riti£ * Bulld og C’L of Maori!
land. As officials and patrons in other dog
departments women also muster strongly And
as women thus move forward in dog circles it is
noticeable that men are graduating in cat ones.
A brace of English tourist-Johnnies, who re-
cently explored the Wanganui River, where the
long moss grows, have returned to civilisation
sadly shocked at the deterioration of the noble
Maori savage. Ihey had sallied into the back-
country with a determination to see the wild
mat-garbed aborigine at all costs, and when the
ve , r Reamer dropped them at a pretty little tree-
shaded kumya , with its carved houses nnrl ito
stilt-legged patokas, their elation was as feverish
as the hues of their checked stockings. Here they
were at last in the very Heart of Maoriland. The
population came out to meet them in their glad-
dest shawls, and provided with their best dried
eeis and boiled taewa. Then the travellers ex-
pressed a desire for a song. They had heard of tho
quaint and ancient waiatas of the Maori • here
was a chance to note down the barbaric
cadences of the ex-cannibal in his native lair
Three amiable-looking, 6ft. youths wero Ui d
forward as the best singers in the camp, and the
grateful globe-trotters emptied the contents of
heir flasks into them, in order to work them up
to the proper pitch of excitement, and filled their
cigarettes’ m, cks i “ d Sre o
cigarettes. Oh, yesh,” said the trio, “we t’e
werry good sing-song ” Then the dusky warblers,
instead of bursting into a howling haka, meekly
took hold of one another’s hands and began :
“ T’ree blind-a mouse !
T’ree blind-a mouse !
See how ta-run ”
But the palefaces waited not for the rest of the
ancient Maori ditty. “They lookah werry wild,
then they go ’way,” says one of the “sing-
songers.” “ Why they go ’way when we give
them werry good noo song?”
Last week, at a big suburban drapery store,
five married women were caught in the act of
stealing articles of the market value of a few
shillings. They were duly presented at court and
fined several pounds, with the option of im-
prisonment for a term. If five pickers and
stealers were caught, how many thefts must
go undetected ! Why, the drink-habit is no-
thing to it. One large firm in Sydney catches
shoals of thieves during its Fair time.
Curiously enough, nine out of ten of the lifters
are married women. Maybe the old man’s mean-
ness or want of work is responsible; in the former
case the woman probably has had to rise up in
the night and go through his clothes for small
expenses, and a habit of surreptitiousness has
entered into her bones. Some of the marauders
showed the calm assurance of a pirate away in the
back numbers of history. One of them had a
stolen underskirt on her, and was wearing it
proudly out of the shop when the Law enfolded
her. Now, did she partially undress in the shop,
without attracting observation, and assume the
garment, or how was it done?
Miss Constance Clyde has an article in the cur-
rent number of The Woman at Home. It is
called “Some Australian Beauties,” and is illus-
trated by portraits of, amongst others, Mrs. Carty
Salmon (daughter of the Matthew Harrises), Mrs.
Julius Caro, Mrs. “Jim ” Toohey (who was Miss
Claire Oxenham), Mrs. Gilbert 'Wilson (a grand-
daughter of the late Madame Carandini), Miss
Dorothy Gore, of Campbelltown (a niece of Mrs.
Goodwin, formerly Mrs. Willie Mitchell), Miss
Minnie Hicks, of Brisbane, and Mrs. Lipmann, of
Double Bay.
The wing of the poultry craze brushes the
painters and musicians of Sydney quite hard.
And when the early morning rooster doth saluta-
tion to the glowing morn (same as in “ Henry V.”)
the artist and the musician arise and feed their
flocks. Mr. Julian Ashton has taken to fowls so
keenly that he may be said to be hen-pecked.
A correspondent writes me :
A romantic young friend, who is a shockingly bad speller,
wrote to me recently telling of a play she had seen. In
the course of the letter she remarked, “ I liked all the
kissing parts, they were such real kisses, but when I was
told the girl was a married woman, it seemed to take the
guilt off.” The dear child meant gilt. But guilt was a
good sort of blunder.
I seem to have met with an unusual rush of
healers of late—people who cure impecuniosity
and large feet and the like—and I was just think-
ing of them when a fresh young politician I know
—the man who advocates State aid to atheism—
gave me this extract from the S.M. Herald :
riHRISTIANT CATHOLIC APOSTOLIC CHURCH
IN ZION. —Queen’s Hall, JULY 29.—Juniors, 11.
At 7 ; Teaching on Divine Healing and Testimonials
by Q’d members, of Tumor, Catarrh, and Deafness,
Internal Diseases, Measles, Whitlow, Fever and Pain
in Lungs, Baby Complaint, Animals. Sydney ex-
periences: Consumption, by Evang. Wilhide ; 3brok.
ribs and 15 serious bruises, by Elder Wilhide.
And now I want to know what is meant by the
combination of “ Whitlow, baby complaint,
animals,” and who are “Evang. Wilhide ” and
“ Elder Wilhide.”
Consul for America Orlando Baker has got an
extra tag. His University has conferred on him
the degree of LL. D. ; but he’s very modest about
it and didn’t advertise the honor. Vice-Consul
Henry L. Jones of the Steel Trust returns here in
October.
A correspondent from West Wyalong tells me
that Miss Gertie Walsh, a local girl who returned
there after several years of hard vocal study, is
making concert appearances and singing so well
that the residents are proud of her.
Another naval wedding to-be. Mr. Bromley,
of the Pah’f’l (he is on the Admiral’s staff), to
Miss Guesdon, one of the prettiest of Harbor girls,
daughter of the late secretary of the Athenieum
Club. As boy and school-girl the engaged pair
met and liked one another. Ten years later they
met again, and determined never to part, except
when the bridegroom goes to get his hair cut.
In the language of journalese, “expectation
runs high ” about Miss Ella Caspers’ appearance
next Monday. The youngster is said to have an
uncommon contralto, giving promise of the Clara
Butt quality. As Clara Butt will be with us (her
husband and three children come along also),
Sydney will have a chance of testing the assertion!
Watkin Mills and llivers Allpress putin print
their opinions of the Caspers voice, and the
opinions are quite on the top note of praise.
Dimpled Dolores will be with us next Saturday.
She comes by the Sierra, but won’t warble until a
week later, so that she may have time to get the
sea-breeze out of her voice and the burden of the
ship off her mind. Franz Wells, an American
pianist, is with her.
What say you to a lizard-green handkerchief
“with a lilliputian white hemstitched bordering
and a single spray of tulips branching from one
corner half-way over the expanse of lawn.” Hurry
up and get a dozen of these. They are only from
seven to twelve guineas the dozen. Each hanky
has a different color scheme and displays a differ-
ent flower, and the flower is finely worked by
hand in plumetis stitch.
The fashionable word of depreciation to-day is
“filthy.” If you don’t like the new millinery it
is “ filthy”; so is the dress you’ve not yet worn
if you don’t care for it. Also your friend’s dinner
menu and the musical hour that followed made up
“a filthy evening” if you were disappointed in
both. I think the adjective wants to be washed,
or even boiled.
The other day a citizeness of this no mean coun-
try rang up Mrs. Bland Holt to ask her, “Is it
true that there is a dear, delightful goose playing
in ‘Flying Colors’?” Answer being “Yes,” the
citizeness said, “Well, I’ll go to see the play.
The goose lias only a walking-on part in the piece.
To see it at its best, you’ve got to watch it follow-
ing its owner about Sydney streets. It’s a gander
really, but the man calls it “Sally.” “Sally”
keeps close to its master’s heels as a rule, but once
it lost him in a shop and behaved like a distracted
creature. When it found the lost soul it spread
its wings wide, did a little fly, let out a true
gander yell as if it had just found a worm, and
nipped the man’s trouser-leg with its bill. “Sally”
is a Melbournian.
Dr. Rudolf Broda, of the Paris School of Soci-
ology, spent a few days in Sydney after doing
Maoriland. He is a gentle-mannered, dark-eyed
young scientist, much interested in the political
and social advancement of women, and as he
looks a very pattable individual, no doubt
the group of nice, smartly-frocked women
who lent him their ears in the winter
garden of the Australia, last night, were in-
terested in him. He talked of Maoriland as if it
were the Newest Utopia. Didn’t enlarge upon its
sole, flounder, and Biuff oyster, or its mountain
lakes of 60-mile area—it was on the State’s laws,
enlightenment and cultivation he spread himself.
Kine chewing clover cud couldn’t enjoy them-
selves more than the doctor did when holding
forth on these subjects.
That pretty little widow, Mrs. “Charlie”
Deane, who went hence last year to visit her
sister, Mrs. Scantlebury, in London, is studying
frock-designing and making at the English
branches of Worth’s and Paquin’s—so an Aus-
tralian Homing Pigeon has just told me. The
learner complains bitterly of the expense of her
training, which is greater than having a Voice
ploughed and harrowed by a star teacher. When
she is “ finished,” Mrs. Deane will return here and
set up as a creator of things of beauty and joys
for a season.
Same Homing Pigeon mentions that the ermine
coat of Mrs. (Dr.) Gwynne Hughes (she’s from
Sydney) was a topic with the Australians in
London. Elsie Moore was in Fogtown for a few
days, but returned to play lead in Something in
America. Elsie —despite rumors to the contrary
—is still happily unmarried. As for Carrie Moore,
there was a carriage belonging to a titled woman
waiting to take her to dinner when the Pigeon
called to see the mummer damsel. That’s nearly
as good as a decoration, isn’t it? Pigeon says she
never saw so much face-painting in Australia in a
year as she saw in London in a week. And the
new shade, that of henna, for the hair is all the
rage. Latest thing in veils is ring-spotted net,
often m cinnamon brown and cream, edged bv
little frills.
News comes of Australia’s old and esteemed
friend, pianist, raconteur and all-round good
fellow—Henri Kowalski. Paris Figauo reports a
concert given by Kowalski at the Salle Aiolian.
“Chopin,” says Fig., “interpreted by Henri
Kowalski, is a treat for the admirers of the Polish
composer and a feast for piano enthusiasts. The
programme was composed exclusively of Chopin’s
works. It was introduced by a short discourse on
‘the life and works’ of the master by M. Kowal-
ski, after which that gentleman scattered his
pearls to the enthusiastic audience.” The notice
winds up by saying, We are interpreting the
opinions of the distinguished audience which
packed the hall, in saying that the brilliant
success which attended M. Kowalski on this
occasion places him at the head of the acknow-
ledged adepts of the school of Chopin.” Most
Australians will be glad to hear of the continued
success of a man who brightened the Bohemian
side of Sydney life, and who was sadly missed
when he left to brighten other parts. In fact,
he was the last of the Bohemians—artistic Bohe-
mianism departed with him from Australia. All
the remaining artists are home at 10 o’clock every
night, and you can set your watch by them in the
morning.
Mere Man lately put his foot in it after a most
unfortunate fashion at Brisbane. It was at a
meeting of a women’s political association, and a
misguided, belltopper-wearing object on the com-
mittee set out quite gratuitously to define the
meaning of a “ lady.” “In my opinion, madam,”
he said gracefully bobbing to Mrs. Chairwoman,
“every virtuous Christian woman is a lady, no
other.” And Mrs. Chairwoman was a fascinating
Jewess.
The race for the World’s Sculling Champion-
ship, on the Parramatta River, on Saturday last,
was one of the most picturesque sights imaginable.
Ihe race itself was, of course, merely a struggle
between two men, one of whom “cracked up ’’ —I
believe that is the correct sporting expression—
about half-a-mile from home. Towns is a wonder-
fully graceful sculler; his boat glides along
without any oscillation whatever, as though
it were running in a groove beneath the water.
Stanbury’s boat rocked and swayed. In his uni-
form of red and white hoops Stanbury looked
a veritable giant, and it seemed impossible
the little man in the rival boat could have
a hope with him. But the little man seemed
more springy he just doubled himself up knees
to chin, and then, as he straightened himself out
suddenly, the boat shot through the water. When
the tootling of whistles told that they were coming,
I was in Hen and Chickens Bay, and all eyes were
strained towards where the sunlight danced on the
shimmery water by Cabarita Point. Out of the
trembling haze three great steamers, all black
against the sunlight, seemed to spring suddenly
from nowhere. The banks heaved, and burst into
tumultuous noise. Then the steamers swept away
past Abbotsford, and the noise and the shouting
went with them. All in a minute the river
was in motion. Every boat on the water
seemed to start in a mad rush for home.
Ihe last rays of the sun glowed through
the huge cloud of smoke that overhung
the river. The beautiful Bronzewing went dip-
ping past; Mr. Dibbs’yacht swept through the
ruck ; Chinnery’s great white motor boat, with
its brass funnel, rocked as though in a gale; and
a hundred other beautiful but unknown launches,
with bright flags trailing astern, went
plunging through the now turbulent water.
There were boats filled with girls only, gay
and self-possessed ; there were other skiffs
from which bibulous enthusiasts waved the bottle
of invitation hilariously ; whistles were screaming,
men shouting, boys and girls singing and laugh-
ln§> and all prows were turned citywards.
As the sunlight ceased to glow through the lower-
ing smoke-cloud there rose a sudden shout, and
past all the procession rushed Mr. Relph’s beauti-
ful green Invincible. His red flag glowed for a
moment in the twilight and sinking smoke, and
then it was gone. The race was a great event,
but for impressive and weird effect it was not in
it with that wonderful homeward rush through
the failing light amid the beauty of the Parra-
matta River, which always seems to me to have
been fashioned on the lines of the Greek Elysium.
Amateur baritone Hogue, of Sydney, has just
been engaged by Mr. J. C. Williamson for the
Repertory Co.
Dr. and Mrs. Sydney Jamieson are returning
by the Macedonia.
Concerning girls who teach for pocket-money
at low fees, a friend writes : “ I know one family
in another State. The father is an ex-civil
servant or some such, and draws a big
pension. He has two children only. Son is a
journalist drawing a good salary. Daughter
teaches music and singing at frightfully small
rates. This is demoralising to the parents of
learners, if nothing else. A girl I know, just
starting as a teacher, asked a friend to let her
teach her three girls. Friend said: “Well, I’ve
promised them to Miss B , but she is charging
12s. Gd. each a term. If you like to take them for
less you can have them ! ”
A correspondent from London :
In August the wedding will take place of Mrs. Willie
MacQuade with Mr. Herbert, secretary to Lord Bertie at
the liriush Embassy in Paris.
Patti, at her yearly concert in London, was dressed likea
girl in her first season. An elaborate, frilly, lacy muslin on
hand-painted chiffon fitted her still wonderfully juvenile
figure like a glove. Uer hair has a touch of red in
it —this is the latest in hair-coloring'; her face was
rather overdone, but then the bright, girlish manner had
to he dressed up to. Jewels and orders Hashed on her
corsage. Really she was a wonderful vision of femininity
which refuses to grow old. Albani has the same girlish
manner of skimming on to the platform. At a concert given
last year she and Mary Anderson Navarro took part, but
what a contrast ! The divine Mary was both dignified
and gracious, but the Canadian songstress startled us by
her mode of entry, advancing on tip-toe, kissing her
fingers to the audience, and afterwards making a rushing,
skittish, kitteney exit.
An influx of thousands of women may be soon expected
on Australia’s sunny shores as the result of the meeting
held on Monday at the Caxten Hall, when the “dear
home land ” was painted in most glowing colors by the
speakers. This meeting has nothing whatever todowith
the Household League, whose members have no objection
to marrying eligible partners. It’s the Bureau for the
Employment of Women that is going to send you its
surplus feminines. Special steamers will have to be
chartered to take the ladies, who are delighted to hear
that there are 280,000 more men than women in Aus-
tralia.
The marriage of Miss Evelyn Primrose, sister of Mrs.
Anderson Stuart, of Sydney, to Major Connor, R.A.M.0.,
took place lately at Southsea, in the Cold Country. The
bride is a Queenslander, and a very pretty one.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
Apropos the Government House hop. Gossips say that
the action of one aide, who is in the habit of favoring a
few of his own pals to the exclusion of the other girls,
came in for a wholesome wigging from the Governor, and
that, pursuant upon the matter, the appointment of a son
of ex- Home Secretary Foxton—J ustiu Fox Greenlaw Fox-
ton, to give him his complete style and dignity—as an
extra aide is mooted.
It was really hard lines that such a contretemps should
have overtaken U. U. Reid at his meeting in the Exhi-
bition Hail, on Monday evening last. Having literally
poured cold water over the women on Saturday,
George’s bad luck should have been exhausted. But no.
He mounted the organ box in order to let his eloquence
roll over the multitude, put his foot on an insecurely
nailed plank, and disappeared into the bowels of
the soft pipes. There were shrieks of alarm,
and one vast hurricane of laughter. Mayor Crase,
anti-Sosh Sinclair and other strong heroes dragged
the orator out of the vox huinana stop, dusted him down,
and set him once more upon the things that intervene
between his corpulence and the Hoor. But through the
remainder of the evening there was a wasteful amount of
hilarity running loose.
The weary Governor-General is wending his way down
the line. The brilliant originality of his reception at
each country town must be knocking him silly. Same
old mayor; same old mounted infantry or pedestrian
cavalry ; same old dirty, or partially clean, school chil-
dren ; same old gorsave ; same old reply, with a few
local hits picked up en route; holiday granted ; inspection
of warriors ; and a thankful escape to a station for the
same old reception next day, which looks like the same
old day over again.
Yours Affectionately,
AEKNEHI.


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis, and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simpie home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send* Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss. 6d.
“Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77Swanston St., Melbourne.*
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar 1 In times gone-by
such foolish methods were excusable; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the" only perfect skin food and complexion
beaulifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &c., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d.
and 6s. per pot.*
That Sydney daily paper has not yet
contradicted W. P. Crick’s statement that, while
he was Minister for Lands, he used frequently to
correct and alter the proofs of the leading articles
it wrote about him and his colleagues. Neither
have other papers denied other charges which he
made against them, from his place in Parliament.
Which fact enabled Premier Carruthers to get in
the unpleasant remark that the Sydney daily
press is so jealous of the honor of Parliament that
it has no time to look after its own.
1111 l
Hu r
m
M
III"'
:r. ,1»' l ? -
m
Sfc
"I
sS*£?
r*o*f*y
i'fii
iiliSli
li^iil
r T f i* r
fi|K
R 1
III! Mm
m
MM
■ 1
Mill
limn
miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiimii!iin
The. DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Of AUSIKALASU LTtfc
Melbourne. Sy*lnry. Adelaide. Bniboe, Perth.
Chmtrburch. S.Z.
MtatmaiitisMi
V
tk
Dunlop-Kdly
Rubber Tyres
improve the running ot a trap
fully too per cent.
You simply glide along—without noise
and vibration.
They double the life of your trap, and'
last for years.
Illatlrtlid Price List ob Application
TheDiiTOPTYR[C?ofAusM
gtocw 1
<£)RESS
6 H,ELD i
KLEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any garment. They
are as well known to the Modistes of Melbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris, London, or New York.
ĥ
iuum
.irucrTTfi
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 31, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Dame Northcot* flags not, neither does she flue.
The energetic Ex. doesn’t care whether energy is
an aristocratic crime or not. She just goes ahead
with her abundant enthusiasm, and hearkens to
string quartets with the same hearty appreciation
wherewith she gives ear to the monologue of the
Australian who makes pianos or produces tweeds.
The Talbottle Dame has been endeavoring to
temper the wind to the shorn public by making
various promises to appear at certain functions
and at the eleventh hour despatching per orderly
the word of sudden sickness to the anxious dais
sisterhood. Then there are long faces. Still, it’s
helpful for an Ex. to give a promise of attendance.
The extra hundred or so who are drawn thereby
are a big aid to a deserving cause. And what
is a disappointed snob more or less ?
Up till the final Melbourne hour, Grace Palotta
persisted in a strenuous programme. On Thursday
she was out and at the dentist’s when the rest of
the world had not yet hailed smiling morn. Then
on to rehearsal till midday. Afterwards an
O'Hara farewell luncheon, a benefit performance,
an afternoon shivoo, with admirers like a swarm
of bees about a sprig of honeysuckle, and, finally,
the evening show. Butthat wasn't final. Flashlight
snapshots filled in the time till midnight, when
Grace, with unimpaired cheerlulness, peeled off
her grease effects and dressed for home. Fifteen
hours of hustle, and still the Palotta fund of good
humor and vitality held out 1
Mrs. George Willoughby goes touring with her
husband, and takes a staggering wardrobe to
help the co. on the public sale of the footlights.
Mrs. Willoughby’s slenderness is accented by a
close mould of dress. Mrs. Hugh Ward remains
here with her sons. But she may make the time
profitable by the training of the local chicks’
top C —having been approached by several aspir-
ants who long to acquire the dame’s method of
song-prod uction.
Storm signals have been noted in two house-
holds where the couples are young and ought to
be absurdly happy. But idleness, luxury and an
abstinence from babies bring along apathy and
discontent. Too much good fortune is the secret of
all the misery. In almost every local case of matri-
monial misfit in moneyed circles, the reason seems
to be the wife’s idleness, vanity, and lack of real
misfortune. A crop of babies in various stages of
whooping-cough or measles would mend the con-
nubial chains and relieve the tiredness of the
empty mind. More real annoyances are wanted
to bring the foolish to the light of understanding.
A fashionable dame who took Emerson’s phrase
too literally, and “drank the nectar of the hour,”
had to be assisted out of a crowded drawing-room
recently in the afternoon. She had been watch-
ing a Bridge contest and sipping the nectar in an
absent-minded manner. Presently she rambled
in her talk, and interrupted play. As she
couldn’t be hypnotised to sleep on the spot, or
bundled under the table, some chum (it was a
feminine gathering) elbowed her carefully out.
The bulk*of the crowd were told the stylish dame
had become faint. Hostesses should really only
supply ginger-pop and coffee at Bridge parties for
either players or onlookers. Play lasts for hours,
and the absorbed sports are not conscious how
much nectar they really are sipping till someone
does a fashionable “ faint.”
A swagger committee, with Miss Winter-
Irving at its head, is fussing quite earnestly to
give young tenor Cohen a profitable farewell.
The tall, athletic youth has always affected
feminine society, and the sex retaliates now. At
the concert, a feature of the bill is to be the ap-
pearance of Miss Carmen Pinschof in the operatic
rdle that supplied her front name. She is pretty
enough and saucy enough for the part, but how
her voice is to shape is another matter.
Mr. Michael Scott has set off for a six months’
gad and a look in at the family hearth. Mean-
while his local orchard interests are to be sus-
tained.
Mrs. Harry Payne still makes a sprint through
the city in her flash dog-cart, and refuses a petrol
flier. She naturally declines to forego her top-
place as a whip. Mrs. Harry is a dashing horse-
woman, and, as a driver, stands alone in this town.
Lady Holroyd, the veteran writer of this State,
figured at the French Ball and exchanged re-
marks in the most polished Parisian possible to an
English tongue with the new Consul, who has
more fierce moustachios than face. The Judge’s
dame is a plump and hearty edition of Madame
de Maintenon. The pity is her brain wasn’t put
to the service of the politicians of this country.
She passes her snowy days (the snow is piled thick
on her summit) in brisk literary delights. Her
reading has ranged over all countries, and she has
the rare advantage of reading most authors in
their own language. The venerable wit is a
unique figure in the State, and good to look upon
even at her present snowy stage. She has vitality,
energy, and a love of life. All three have kept
her eyes young and bright and her talk middle-
aged and generous.
, The feature of Leila Doubleday’s benefit was
the number of small gardens passed up to reward
every she-tootler, not to mention the wonder-
child herself. It’s a long time since this benefit-
supporting community expressed so much flower-
enthusiasm. Little Leila had to make one or two
round trips, so to speak, after a recall, to rake in
the scented vegetables. She was a droll figure
with her long, innocent curls—the curls that hang
rather slack and loose are innocent, her white
bubbles of sleeves, her brief frock looking as un-
worldly as a pinny, and her long white infant
stockings. A small crease in them would have
seemed one of the seven deadly sins. Their tant
look was eloquent of unspotted childhood. When
Leila sat at the piano-board she took on 10 extra
years. When she scraped the fiddle she looked
as wise and loving as the best of her sex. And
all the time she was clever and sweet.
Madame Grace Ward contributed some sweet
song to the benefit bill. Her first number,
Dusaner’s “ To Seville.” was very pleasing. One
sat back rested and refreshed.
Mr. Emanuel Jacobs, a brother of Mrs. Isaacs,
cultivates to some effect the art of mimicry. He
fave samples to the Doubleday benefit bill.
I is specimens of Bland llolt'3 cockney delivery,
W. Baker’s basso-prof undo heroics, and Hugh
Ward’s glib Mexican tarradiddles brought the
house down. Altogether he gave a dozen frag-
ments, the only failure being the Palotta prattle.
In this Emanuel the mimic failed. It lacked the
sauce piquante.
A widow who consulted an elderly prophet as
to the spooks of the past and the joys of the
tuture was given the tip to lay her heart and cash
at the feet of the oracle himself. The widow was
won without effort or remonstrance. Her heart is
the prophet’s and the cash and herself are to pass
into his care as soon as her garments of joy are
stitched. A number of hard, cold, unsympathising
friends advise the widow against the step, but she
turns from them petulantly and makes eyes at
her elderly prophet like a young thing of sixteen
in the first throes of a green romance.
Talking of futurists and such. A practical,
common-sense sort of man tells the story. One
evening as he was settling down to an evening
chop, his wife bounced up from her seat, and, dart-
ing at him, threw her two plump arms round his
neck, weeping hysterically the while on his collar.
He remonstrated, and asked what the trouble
was. Hysterics were new to him, and he didn’t
relish them while his chop did an unappetising
freeze. Implored to confide her worry, she ceased
her sobs and returned pensively to her chair. But
for days that wife’s soulful demeanor baffled and
irritated that husband. Then she started accom-
panying him to the office and calling for him in
the evening. The third day this happened the
harassed worm turned and demanded reasons.
Between convulsive sobs she coiJessed that a seer
had prophesied his death within a month. “ And
you’re waiting for it ? You expect it to happen ?”
queried the doomed man in an intensely calm
voice. And, though the wife had been weeping
all over the place lest he should die, his firm inti-
mation that he wasn’t going to perish, and that
the seer was a knave, almost angered her. At
the end of the month she was so glad he hadn t
died, and so cross because her pet seer had been a
failure, that the old friendly relations have never
been quite resumed.
The hockey girls are getting in trim for the
season. They’re already missing Airs. Stuart
Balmain, who, as dashing Miss Fairbairn, charged
the hockey enemy at the head of the Dunraven
team, and very often scored in the scrimmage.
There’s one thing about hockey—only the girleens
rollick at it. Those who star have the grace still
of their school-day legs. The more seasoned old
girl dnshes for a tram or train, or after her small
brother, with as much grace as a bear or a cow.
The consciousness of clothes is upon her—has
been upon her for many seasons—and her ‘legs,
so long concealed from the world, are no use in a
hurry. They’ve settled down to a conventional
old-girl pace, and will not respond when the
occasion calls for a sprint. So hockey remains a
young game, and one has a sneaking regard for it
on that account.
Madame Janson has already got a stylish fol-
lowing. Mrs. Dunbar-Hooper—a Swedish dame
herself—is at the head of the admiring clan. At
the Janson concert there was a great spread of
chiffon. The contralto was gaily got-up in black
with a glad pink in plentiful relief. Her coiffure
was cute. It had the Regent dip, and doesn’t yet
own up to a grey hair. She smiled her songs
through. Dolores grows beautiful in song ;
Madame Janson becomes attractive. Herr Hat-
tenbach’s ’cello items were a delight, and Harold
Elvin’s strummings were helpful. A little Miss
twanged cleverly at the harp—but her dressing
and deportment didn’t help her.
It’s marvellous how children grow to adult age
away from their native soil. The Rupertswood
chick —Phyllis—now “coming out” in London, is
remembered here as a toddler. The little Bingham
girl, also remembered as a stripling with her
honey tresses floating past her ears, has in the
course of time acquired long frocks and a new
papa, and is to be launched on the crowded sea
of life this year.
C. Conway Mason, eldest son of the ex-Speaker,
is installed as associate to Justice Hodges. While
in Africa with a Victorian contingent, young
Mason was A.D.C. to Lord Methuen, and later
fell in for a particularly rosy period in the Big
Smoke, what time Horsetralians were accounted
no mean potatoes and many in a hill, lie’s a tall,
studious soldier-man, with excellent manners and
the subdued air of the philosopher.
Mrs. Henry Dobson is again circling the globe.
It is a habit of hers. Meanwhile, her Senatorial
spouse looks as cheerful as possible under the soli-
tary circumstances of his career, and attends more
muffin sprees than any other Federal member —
not excluding Willie-motor Kelly. These days
Staniforth Smith sets his bearded countenance
against the cup and the charmer that cheer, and
makes ready in his cabin for the call of the
Commonwealth hour.
Church and school circles are interested in the
engagement of Miss Mary Morris, 8.A., co-
principal of Merton Hall, to Mr. , Stephens,
described as “something in the city.” Merton
Hall became the fashion when Anglican authori-
ties decided to label it as “Church of England
Girls’ Grammar School,” much to the chagrin of
those who claimed the title for Miss Bromby’s
Ruyton. In the contest for the coveted dis-
tinction, the Morris sisters held a trump-card in
the favor of Widow Janet Clarke. The younger
Clarke girls were sent to Merton Hall, which was
thereupon rushed by scholars whose parents
wished them to “make nice friends.”
That popular Adelaide parson, who is lamenting
the sudden death (in London) of his fiancee, seems
born to bad luck. Some years back, he achieved
a preaching success in Melbourne, and so endeared
himself to his flock that, when he announced his
approaching marriage to a lady unconnected with
any of the pillars of the congregation, the fold re-
sounded with wailing and gnashing of teeth. The
shepherd and his bride sought peace in the City
of Churches, but Death soon dissolved their union.
Now, his unlucky reverence is in mourning again.
A packed Princess’s with an anxious query in its
inquiring gaze confronted R. G. Knowles on
Saturday night. The four pens of great price
were tenanted. Half of Toorak took up promi-
nent perches in stalls and circle. Garden plots
in the front heads, and ornaments in brass, silver
and gold shut out the view of the backward
stallites. What decoration the sex rips off the
shoulders and chest for theatre display is devoted
to towering thatches and quaint top appoint-
ments. The head of one dazzling stallite was
stabbed at four points with deadly Indian daggers.
In the circle the marvellous thatch of a blonde
looked like a plaited basket lowered on the
neck, and an onion-bag or net, sprinkled with
diamond dew, was stretched on the crown. Mrs.
Knowles, who aids her spouse, sported chitfons
more gorgeous than any t’other side of the foot-
lights. One was a black spangled draped
garb, giving every advantage to some seductive
curves.
The latest aspirants for the championship belt
for meanness (half each) went a-honeymooning in
a country residence lent by another couple.
Lavish stores of food and drink and a treasure of
a Mary Ann were also provided by the misguided
lending parties. Far from having any thought of
replacing the provisions consumed, the pair carried
away all they couldn’t eat, and left the larder as
bare as a grasshopper-swept paddock. Also the
numlier of fowls had diminished, and during the
few days that elapsed between the departure of
the mean ones and the return of her original
lessees the food less Mary Ann was obliged to
visit the township and buy her own fodder.
An English dan*e who falls less often than most
of her trailing sex in the frozen resort of the glad
hour (it is* place of fallen women), wears all the
contents of her jewel casket on her lengthy person
even when doing a morning glide. The enthu-
siast of these parts mostly dispenses with her
habitual pearls at the hours that follow close on
cock-crow, and doesn’t mind even if she secures
her neck-scarf with a safety-pin in lieu of a star-
brooch ; but the fashionable visitor endeavors to
look like a Marcus Stone picture, even mounted
on her skates. Novices try to glue and paste
their top-coils into place. The ordinary double
skewer is liable to make a grievous inroad into
tlie skull when the head is bumped without warn-
ing on the ice. Then the consequences suggest
the false charge brought against N icholas Nickieby
by Miss Squeers to the effect that his violence had
driven her ma’s back-comb into her head, and, if
it had gone in a very few inches further, the tor-
toise-shell might have affected the brain.
Physical culture is in fashion. One of its demon-
strators was snapped up before half of her show
was through by a moneyed medico, and the
wedded pair are now dallying on the Continent.
In the Big Smoke Mrs. Joseph Conn is making
thousands a year at the game. She is the most
beautiful and most successful of all the Australians
making a fortune in London, with the exception
of Melba and Crossley. She has 500 trained
teachers scattered through the Cold Country.
She is the fountain head. When any of the tri-
butaries weaken and lose in authority, down she
goes, and one or two lectures give the cult its old
force and influence. Mrs. Conn is aided in her
calling by a whole continent of self-assurance, a
resourceful brain, and a large dash of wit. Her
figure, her deportment, her magnetic personality,
are the wonder of old Australian friends yvho only
remembered the dame as a rather attractive Mel-
boumienue. Once a Duchess objected to Mrs.
Conn speaking of the young girls as “ the future
mothers of England’s children.” “I had my
young daughter with me. I didn’t like the refer-
ence,” objected Blue Blood. “The Mothers of
England’s children ? What should I say—the
mothers of England’s sheep? Rubbish!” And
the culturist left the aesthetic Duchess flabber-
gasted.
Talking of physical culturists. There’s another
in this Judkins centre, who is being wooed by the
wealthiest widower hereabouts. All Society
groans to see the elderly Romeo drifting into a
second union.
The latest Witch hat is on the head of the
smart. On its straight rim is some poultry trim-
ming or garden blossoms. I saw one the other
day like a tall, silk beaver lid cut down a few
inches and decorated on the upper side (this kind
of millinery is worn at a tilt) with a rooster’s tail.
And it looked the sauciest head-gear going. The
small hat is the thing. Those of the sex who are
afflicted with a limb of a nose (something far be-
yond a feature) will sorrow, for the short rim will
render the profile hideous. A shady rim is a
complexion shield and a pretty extinguisher.
Beneath it the hardest face takes on a delusive
softness. A cynic or a jilted man-milliner must
have brought the small hat into vogue.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
i LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO..
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Qout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY. -«
> kl-
\o.
f p£
GrO TO ITET.T-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS,
«
•-V-
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
281 GcorgeSt.
(ovn. Hunter St.)
Also at Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bill abolishing separate representation
of civil servants, and making them ordinary
citizens again, passed its third reading in the Vic.
Assembly unanimously. The last vestige of Ice-
berg Irvine’s work as Premier walked the plank,
every man saying it was bad. It hadn’t a friend.
“ Itan ” writes :
The Bulletin (12/7/’O6) did Queensland Labor leader
Kerr a great injustice by bracketing him with that
political Ishmaelite, Lesina, who recently declared that
after next State election “ there will be no Kidston party.”
Kerr is one of the Government’s strongest supporters,
and as chairman of the P.L.L. signed the manifesto of
last session, which declared for sweet reasonableness.
Holy Papa Brunker has a short and sour
Bill down on the N.S.W. Legislative Council
business paper. It says that every lottery, by
whatever name called, is “a common nuisance
and an unlawful game,” and therefore to lie sup-
pressed. Thus in one clause will be wiped out (if
the Bill passes) alike the art union and the church
bazaar.
Carruthers was on the right track when,
in answer to a complaint by the Owe’Sulli van, he
insisted on the right of the N.S.W. Government
to canvass for private advertisements for State
publications. The exercise of that right cuts into
newspaper profits, of course; but what special
rights have newspaper proprietors more than
shipowners, carriers, teachers, cabmen, and other
classes affected by State competition ?
Joe Cook has been drifting around again
making statements to the effect that a Federal
graduated land-tax would be an outrage because
land-taxation is reserved to the States. If the
insistent old Joe would only get down to details
and show the clause in the Australian Constitu-
tion which reserves the power of land-taxation to
the States he would save much anxiety and foolish
repetition. Also The Bulletin would give him
£lOOO for a sight of that clause.
THE CAUSE OF THE SILENCE.
Rep. Reid had a hearty reception at Charters Towers.
He addressed more than 5000 people at an open-air meet-
ing, and spoke for over two hours. The speech was
almost entirely free from interjections.
REID : “Gentlemen, the fact that you have, re-
frained from making interjections, convinces
me that you have realised the great seriousness
of what I say.”
VOICES FROM THE CROWS: “ Gam, boss, we
thought you was jokin’,”
The parochial-minded people who want a
Federal capital at the back door of Sydney, so
that that city may annex all the trade, are grow-
ing very confused in their statements. N.S.W.
Premier Oarruthers wants the capital removed
from Dalgety—situated on the only absolutely un-
failing river in the State—to a new site where,
he says, it will have the blessings of a water-supply
from the as yet unbuilt Barren Jack reservoir.
Then Lindon Biddulph, who calls out wildly for
an Australian capital in his own back-yard at
Lyndhurst, says:—
At Barren Jack it would be madness to spend people’s
money in a basin covered by leaky, treacherous limestone
bottom, with a pressure of 1300 ft. above sea level.
But Lindon Biddulph doesn’t advance the alleged
unreliability of the proposed Barren Jack reser-
voir as a reason for keeping the capital at Dalgety
alongside the clear, cool, unfailing Snowy River ;
he reckons the Federal city should be alongside
some blastiferous little tank.which he proposes to
dig out in his back-yard at Lyndhurst.
Said that Senator Drake, of Queensland,
the man of any opinions arid of every view, will
not be a candidate for the Senate again; he will
fall out of public life more cheaply as a candidate
for a Rep. seat.
The anti-Sosh crowd, looking for a
“strong’ man to oppose Labor-leader Watson at
South Sydney, proposed Pumpkin Smith ! The
humorousness of the Vegetable as a “strong”
man was too much for even P. Smith himself, and
he rose hastily to affirm that only his last breath
would cause him to basely desert the enlightened
constituency which had returned him 25 years ago.
Rupert Clarke has expressed his will-
ingness to sell to the Vic. Government a
small allotment of about 101,000 acres of Vic-
torian soil. The whole of this land is set down
in the Land Tax register as fourth-class soil of a
capital value of £1 an acre, and is taxed accord-
ingly—at least it pays tax on £98,000, which is
less than £1 an acre. But, no doubt, Rupert
expects a first-class price for it all the same, and
it will be interesting to learn what is considered
its actual value. The Closer Settlement Board is
now sitting on the offer, the baronet’s father-in-
law (Cumming) being the said Board’s chairman.
An amusing side show in connection with
the Surry Hills election was the Salvarmy that
celebrated the news of Bruntnell’s return with
godly noise. The major-general of the blood-and-
fire forces declared that God had triumphed, and
the officers, commissariat, ambulance, brass band,
and artillery of the army waved a torch and said
“Hallelujah!” Then Major Grace did a step-
dance, and cried that the devil was conquered ;
and various other officers said similar things ; and
a hymn of glory was sung. After a collection had
been taken to celebrate the glorious occasion, all
its possibilities seemed exhausted and the exalted
band departed.
“Baldy ” Davis, ex-M.L.A., was appointed
some time ago to the job of reporting on the
possibilities of the 2,000,000 acres of the awful
Pilliga (N.S.W.) scrub as a field for settlement.
After meanderinground forthreemonths, “Baldy”
reports that the scrub is so thick that mostly he
couldn’t penetrate into it; that it supports a few
rabbits, which are at present dying for want of
food ; and that he thinks it a first-class idea to
settle the people on the land there. Minister of
Lands Ashton is so pleased at the idea that he
intends to import some huge traction engines and
let them loose on the scrub, and when they have
flattened it down he will sell the land to immi-
grants, who will be quite surprised to see how
quickly the scrub grows again.
Tasmania is always thinking, as N.S.W.
used to think, of “doing something”
with its Local Government system. It
has municipalities, road boards, town
boards, drainage boards, sheep boards,
and other boards, planks, chips, and
shavings innumerable. There are great,
bloated trusts and boards that look after
three miles of metalled road and one
mile of dirt road apiece; and there are
councils which have nothing to do ex-
cept look after a lamp or two, because
their roads are in the hands of a road
board, and a cemetery board looks after
their burial place, and there is no drain-
age or water supply to look after, and
the sanitary system looks after itself.
Yet these petty local functionaries hang
on to their dignities as if someone wanted
to tear an empire from them, and for 15
years they have successfully howled
“tyrant” and “oppressor” when any
Government proposed to divide the
island into districts of reasonable size,
and to let one local body attend to every-
thing in each area.
“Lil”: Whenever I look in at an
anti-Sosh Women’s League meeting the
aspect of the clucking gathering reminds
me of the title of one of Chaucer’s poems,
“The Assembly of Fowls.” An oc-
casional fluffy young chicken is to be seen ;
but once she starts to take notice of absurd
cackle about the purity of the fowl-run
and the sanctity of the hen-roost her
fluffiness departs visibly, until, in a brief
space of time, she is hardly to be dis-
tinguished from the veriest old chook of
the Assembly. Nothing ages a woman
so fast as “ the purity of the home.”
From “ Two Seas ” :
“ The Eastern Extension Co. has no claim on Austra-
lia’s gratitude ” (B. 5/7/’O6). Quite true ; but it has a big
claim on the gratitude of sundry globe-trotting 'Stralians
who drop in at Winchester House, London, to call upon
its secretary—the genial Bill Lyne (no relation of our
Bill). Part of the jovial secretary’s duty is to keep in
touch with influential visitors—especially if they have
the M.L.A. brand, and are looking for a good time' in the
Big Smoke. Bill is the man who will see that they get it,
and often they also get their cables on the nod.
No end of a good fellow is Bill, and small wonder that,
when required, the company finds good friends on this
side of the big geographical tank.
Bent’s half-hearted motion conveying Par-
liament’s regret at the lost Iceberg’s departure
had at least one good effect—it gave Prendergast
a chance to get into Hansakd the full text of the
Berg’s original Strike Suppression Bill, the insanely
savage measure which went to the outrageous
length of providing gaol for anybody who might
help a striker’s starving wife and children. So it
will remain a mondment of what the Tory would
do if he once got a free rein, and of what a con-
summate ass a Patman becomes when he gets the
bit between his teeth.
There are now eight vacancies caused by
deaths and retirements (no re-appointments hav-
ing been made) m Maoriland Leg. Council, and
before the year is out there will, in the ordinary
course of retirements, be twelve. The num-
ber holding the somnolent billet in Maoriland
has thus been reduced to 37, and these include
nine life members who got their permanency
before the Act of 1891—Bailie, Bowen, Johnston,
M‘Lean, Miller, Ormond, Scotland, Stevens, and
Walker. What Ward (when he takes the Pre-
miership) will do in the matter isn’t known, but
there is certainly a fine opportunity to let the
Upper Mausoleum die out. The life members
are old, and will probably die or become super-
annuated in a very sudden heap one of these days,
and if no new appointments are made as the seven-
year men drop off, the end will be “no quorum.”
THE MARRIAGE TIE.
The old wife turns up at the altar and forbids the marriuye.
It looks as though the odoriferous Yic.
Butter Commission may yet worry, if it does not
overthrow, Bent. He has accepted Crown Pro-
secutor Finlayson’s opinion that no criminal
charge will lie against any of the butter-extorters,
and has informed M.L. A. George Graham, one of
the three Commission members, that he (Bent) is
going to sit still and do nothing. Graham says
that plenty of money is forthcoming to get further
legal opinions, and that, if a charge can be laid at
all, some of those extorters will presently adorn
the dock in the Criminal Court. Meanwhile, the
Age has ferretted out the fact that lawyer Croker,
who “assisted ” the Commission, charged no less
than £5259, and that Bent, instead of sending
this bill to the taxing-master to be overhauled,
hired another solicitor as arbitrator, and the bill
was to £4OOO. But, so far, nobody
knows why this second solicitor was brought into
the matter at all. The State keeps a taxing-
master to do that sort of work.
Having cordially approved of Fitzpatrick’s
fight against Socialism in Cootamundra, the
N.S.W. Farmers’ Ass, through its president, pro-
ceeded to call on the State to —
(1) Control and assist in the export of produce ;
(2) Establish a State Bank ;
(3) Open a store to deal in wire netting ;
(4) Establish agencies for handling wheat in bulk ; and
(5) Build more railways.
After which Judkins may be expected to start a
brewery and Dill Macky a store for the sale of
holy water and crucifixes.
Queensland Premier Kidston, who a little
while ago was scoffed at as “an unsuccessful
newsagent attempting to run the Treasury,”
is now universally regarded as the strongest
and straightest Premier the State has had
since Lilley’s time. In three years he has
turned a chronic deficit of half-a-million
into a surplus of nearly £200,000; has
partly solved the local unemployed
problem; has established a vigorous
land settlement policy, and is now
signing contracts for half-a-dozen new
railways. And so far he hasn’t borrowed
a penny. Kidston’s most relentless
opponents are bloated contractors who
amassed fortunes out of unproductive
Government works, rushed into by the
old Coalition gang. He is also detested
by the snobbish society ring, and by a
clique of mercantile nonentities, who
cannot believe that the ex-news-agent
and ex-ironmoulder can be other than an
impudent impostor and a fraud.
Nelson (M.L.) Lodge of Orangemen is
asking the co-operation of all other Yellow Pups
in sending a petition to Governor Plunket pro-
testing against Joseph Ward being sworn in as
Premier when the readjustment of portfolios takes
place. Ward is a Holy Roman, and if he becomes
Premier the cows will dry up, and the frozen sheep
business become dust and ashes.
Over in Westralia there was a violent
scramble to be anti-Sosh candidate for South
Fremantle. One Briggs was “ selected,” but he
had eventually to stand down in favor of A. E.
Davies, undertaker. The fact that the latter had
buried the previous member gave him a claim
that couldn’t be overlooked.
Sydney Telegraph last week found
another grievance against the Australian Govern-
ment. It seems that the paymasters of British
warships in Port Jackson, being too lazy or care-
less to provide themselves with cash, had been
paying the Boy of the Bullpup Breed with Eng-
lish postal-notes, and the fact that Sydney G.P.O.
refused to cash these led the Telegraph to say
unpleasant things about the horrors of having
Australia governed from Melbourne. On inquiry
it proved that the British Government, some time
ago, asked this country to cash British postal
notes. The Australian Postal Department replied
that it would gladly do so if Britain would cash
Australian postal-notes in return. Britain replied
that it wouldn’t, so Australia said it wouldn’t
either, and the matter ended. Therefore, when
the paymasters of British warships in Port
Jackson paid their men in British postal notes
they were simply putting off the Boy of the
Bullpup Breed with a bogus currency, and de-
served no sympathy whatever.
So far as it is possible to figure things up,
the various writs now afloat over the N.S.W.
Lands trouble represent demands for about
£lOO,OOO.
It was cab l e d last week that things were
, • • • • „■ , n „ ,
verging on a crisis in the Transvaal, that . every
Col ?T 'YI T P ’/Ti WM W ?p t,ng W ‘ n ’ ff 6
f ° d f f‘ ul " of the new Transvaal Oonstitu-
$ 10n : , t lat \ f , the Boers secu [, ed , a m ;U or > y>» the
Legislature the empire would burst and that the
COU ? try *7 the sword must not be
a f ln f con tolled by Kruger s old reactionary
who denied equal rights to all white
™ en ’ H sounds like a voice from the grave to
£- ear good old wheeze again, seeing that
Xruf f r s d ? I ! 1 l a \°[ oq,,al r] * h \ s to white men”
meant that he refused aliens a vote just as
B " ta { n does to-day Anyhow, there is a crisis,
th ? ca ge 18 sald beB ° that Kip mg
has written a poem about it. But even a Kipling
poem isn t food Or drink, and when the white
workers—not the speculators—of South Africa
compare the peace and plenty, the good wages and
abundant work of the Kruger days with the
starvation and misery of the Anglo-Chow regime,
many of them would gladly hang Kipling if doing
so cou l d bring the old Boer rule back again.
Some of them would even be willing to boil
i- „ ”
JvipJing.
HIS EXCUSE.
Speaking at Surry Hills, the other day, the Minister
for Lands declared that nothing kept him in office but
want of “a colorable excuse” for leaving it. Others have
given similar hints.
CRICK : "So, for all your talk , I’m the only one of
the whole bloomin' lot with grit enough to find
a colorable excuse! ”
The S.M. Herald published two leaders
alongside each other on July 26. One said N.S.W.
Chief Railway Commissioner Oliver should be
sacked for making £400,000 surplus out of the
railways. The other said that Joe Carruthers
was a great statesman for handing out £450,000
Oliver’s surplus and something over —as a sop to
the new Local Government bodies. So apparently
Oliver should be sacked for making Joe a great
statesman.
In cricket field or football bounds,
Sporting- with gun, or following hounds,
In swift horse-race or yachting course,
Where’er a man’s delight finds source,
One more delight keeps him aglow—
Best game of all—’tis sport to know
That Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure was sent
To be man’s best medicament.’


THE CALLAGHAN
PARTICULAR SENT
MEN. RIGHT AWAY,
&
V
I -S
‘ti-:*■■''
KM
.
.A .‘*v'* r
<*,»v
50
Post and Duty Free
TO ALL THE STATES,
INCLUDING W.A., for
23/6
IN TAN —
. 24/6
In Fine French Calf, 22/6
In Tan, 23/6
Stylish Appearance.
VERY LONG- WEAR.
AN EXACT PIT.
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS,
Through our Mail Order System, can
have a pair of these Boots sent to them,
closely examine them, FIT THEM ON.
They can exchange them, or we can refund their
money.
SEND FOR—
THE CALLAGHAN
STYLE-BOOK.
Fully Illustrated.
POSTED FREE.
WRITE
TO-DA Y
FOR
IT l
Our Mail Order Goods always go right.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Drop That Habit of Dipping!
Give it a rest. Be more up-
to-date and DIP NO MORE.
JUST THINK how much time you waste by continually dipping,
travelling back and forth from the paper on which you are
writing to the ink bottle. Did it ever strike you the amount
of energy you are throwing away in this useless action ? Consider
the distance your poor unfortunate hand has to travel when
writing. We ask you, therefore, to be more merciful to yourself.
Conserve your energy. Take it easy, and make life worth living.
Our advice is sound, and, to help you carry it out, we beg to
introduce to you our latest success in FOUNTAIN PENS. A
real BOON TO THE WEARY WRITER, and A JOY FOR
EVER. Price 10/0> Post Free.
THE EAGLE
A SELF FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN.
Press the Button - FlUed in a Flash
66
'A
UiS PAtfNt O’- JUf<l 9 m 190j
. gOs-D PtN
A wil&£m%,. P' -a
Price
1 m
WM
I . ;] ,
GUARANTEED
. ■ . ~\SS F . -: •■
' SO CO6OWG NO
V a
lW
-- ■' ■
.-
NSW. BOOKSTALL C«
476 (rcorMt, Sydney
(jLmZ
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St. r Sydney
P. & B. BUILDING PAPER
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER PAPERS.
IF YOU WANT
to build a weatherboard house and
make it snug and warm in winter and
cool in summer, P. & B. Building Paper
will enable you
TO INSULATE
your building and make it weatherproof.
P. & B. Paper is used for insulating
freezing chambers, butter factories, etc.
Made with a pure mineral.
If it is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcos Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S. FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS.
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vie.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vio.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD.
N.Z.
, Brisbane, Q.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
IN OUR ....
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL VALUE IN
Men's Sac Suits Ou (•
Made to Measure In PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Mannfacture, and In
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and COATINGS.
gPgr-Send for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
These Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-made.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
LIFE ,
(Mutual) Yor n.s.w.— 263 George Street, Sydney.
ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(6) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
Patent Tuiencent
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
ALSO,
60 Candle Power
for Less than
i One Farthing per
Hoar with Ordi-
nary Kerosene.
STAND LAMPS
Complete
from . .
18/6 each.
Bracket $ Hanging [amps
BURNER
Complete
126
Will Fit
Existing Fonts.
h
Welsbach
Incandescent
Acetylene
Gas Burners
’Brilliant Light
of 100 Candle
Power.
5/-
Complete
By using; these
Incandescent
Burners, con-
sumption of
Acetylene Gas
will be reduced
by half and your
light doubled.
Acetylene Gas
Fittings and
Lamps.
SO 9
K 0
*
- ;
■ ■ '■>/:
■ .
Hi
§1
DOES YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO:-
WELSBACH LIGHT CO
OP AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Perry Bros,, Brisbane,
J. M, Ferguson, Ltd,, Perth, W,A,
48 Victoria St*, Wellington, N*Z,
Harold Colton & Co*, Adelaide*


“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car rs
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL GO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLON lAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading - Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
The Blues.
No man or women is more sick of life than
when they have that trouble commonly called
the blues. It amounts to a disease in many cases.
That terrible feeling which makes all the world
appear gloomy, without one ray of brightness.
Even one’s best frieuds seem to have deserted
2^
/
1
'S
V
them. Every little
trouble adds fuel to tbe
down-hearted, despond-
ent being. Some fly to
drink for solace, but
strong drink can never
cure fits of melancholy.
In nine cases out of ten
this state of mind arises
from a deranged system,
in all probability from
a disordered state of the
liver, which is draining
the energy from your
system, making you
languid and irritable,
at cross purposes with
everyone you come in
contact with. You re-
quire a medicine which
will put a move into
your system, enliven your liver, stimulate your
circulation, and soothe your nerves. Take a snort
course of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which
will impart health and vigor through the medium
of a well-regulated system. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a
positive and permanent cure for biliousness,
indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples,
and blotches, and for female ailments.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING N OTIONS .
Championship of the world and £lOOO stake !
It sounds magnificent, and at the beginning the struggle
between Stanbury and Towns was worthy of the great oc-
casion. They , were to start from just beneath Ryde
bridge, and row over the historic championship course
that ends where the stained marble memorial to dead
champion Harry Searle lifts its broken column from the
waters. On the banks, on the sloping rocks, and on
hundreds of moored craft was gathered a multitude
estimated at between 80,000 and 100,000 people. The
oarsmen got away to a magnificent start at 16 minutes
past 4, and Towns, rowing the faster stroke, shot to the
front, and led by half a length till the quarter-mile.
There Stanbury jumped level, and then commenced to
draw away. The most graceful sculler in the world came
again, and once more passed the strongest champion
oarsman that ever rowed on the river. At the end of the
first three minutes Towns was leading by quarter of a
length. Then he seemed to lose the course, and steered
too far towards the bank, and Stanbury shot through and
was again leading, and, getting into the current, made all
the use of it possible. At the mile the champion was ahead
by half a length. Towns made another desperate effort,
and his boat glided steadily closer. He sent it along in a
marvellous manner, steady as a piece of machinery. Off
Putney, Towns came still faster, but Stanbury, bending
down, hurled his shell through the water with a majestic
ease that seemed invincible, and left the struggling
Towns fully two lengths behind. “It’s all over” said the
“ experts ” ; “ Towns can never get near him.” The
whistles began to sound “cock-a-doodle-doo” as they
passed Tennyson. But Towns still hustled along un-
daunted, his boat gliding with a. curiously steady motion
that was quite different from the dip of Stanbury’s prow.
He was going to fight to the bitter end. Then it was
seen that Towns was drawing closer —the lead had
dropped to about one length, and Stanbury was showing
signs of distress, while Towns came even faster. Glades-
ville wharf fled past, and Towns suddenly headed right for
Stanbury, crossed his stern and took the water, and then
with a few tremendous strokes drew right abreast. For
a moment they raced along together, and the cheering
that had died away when Towns made that tremendous
spurt suddenly broke out again. Towns drove his shell
past Stanbury, gliding slowly to the front, pulling short
quick strokes. Stanbury tried to respond, but could not,
and practically gave up rowing, while Towns gathered
pace and flew on to the winning post, which he reached
over 20 lengths in front. The time, 19min. 53sec., was
3sec. more than Stanbury occupied over the contract
when he beat Towns last year.
The race, interesting as it was, was nothing
compared to the spectacle on the river. The shores were
black with people who had arrived by the Drummo.vne
and Abbotsford trams ; thousands of cyclists were on the
roads that converged towards the winning pillar ; and
the stream of horse vehicles was like the brook that
flowed for ever. The river was almost indescribable.
It was the most perfect of lovely afternoons, floods
of sunshine, a faint breeze from the nor’-west, floating
masses of clouds that drifted across the sun occasionally.
At 2.30 the water was covered with rowing boats,
crowded with brightly-dressed women and children.
There were whole boat-loads of lovely girls, with their
sleeves tucked up, rowing perfectly. All the prows
pointed towards Abbotsford. For half an hour that end-
less procession of bright skiffs toiled past, with here and
there a motor boat throwing up the wash among them.
Then came tugs gay with bunting, and with people
squashed up against the very funnels, big cutters rowed
by men and boys in dark blue uniforms, and a few white-
winged yachts that could hardly make headway in the
trifling breeze. Long eight-oar outriggers went leaping
past, the sun shining on the perspiration on the faces of
the rowers, all rowing towards Abbotsford and Glades-
ville. Far down the river the dense cloud of smoke
told of the coming of The People in the big
ferry boats. Black with passengers, heeling over, with the
sponsons below the water, they looked hideously dan-
gerous, and their bulk sent great waves from bank to
bank, that threatened to swamp the boats loaded down to
the gunwale with humanity—largely babies. Gliding
slowly from point to point, they emptied torrents of
people (but the crowds on the decks seemed to grow no
smaller), and finally came to anchor in their appointed
places. The umpire’s boat went by, the steamers that
were to follow the race staggered up the stream towards
Ryde bridge, and disappeared in the trembling haze of
the afternoon. Then, last and most beautiful of all, came
the launches and motor yachts. They glided up and cast
anchor, for the Harbor Commission had ruled that the
course must be clear a full half-hour before the race
started, so that the water should have subsided from the
effects of the traffic.
In a few minutes traffic would be suspended.
But all the steamers seemed to have come, and the sun
burned down on a motionless river, an anchored fleet and
a waiting multitude. But of all the spectacles of that
bright afternoon the best was to come. A sudden shout,
and down past Abbotsford there appeared two sheets of
flying foam flashing in the sunlight. A streak of gleam-
ing emerald tossed between them, and behind a great red
flag streamed in a breeze of its own making. It was the
motor-boat “ Invincible”—the fastest in Australasia.
The owner, Mr. T. Relph, of Sydney Motor Exchange, de-
signed the 60h.p. four-cylinder engine, which was built by
a Balmain firm. He also designed the hull, which is a
monument of light but powerful construction, and was
built in Sydney. Later on a Bulletin man boarded the
beautiful craft, and for the first time realised what speed
travelling on water is like. Overhead was a vast cloud
of smoke. The dusk was coming down. The river was
crowded with craft of every sort hurrying citywards,
from the great steamers that towered up into the clouds
to streaking motor-boats with great flags trailing astern.
But that glorious green boat just seemed to stand still,
quivering between foam waves that curled away at the
bow, while the river, the forging steamers black with
people, the skurrying motor launches, the thousand
skiffs, filled with children, and the banks all fled, all
whirled and roared behind, till the empty Harbor
rose up out of the smoke clouds and twilight. Now
that writer knows what Heaven will be like. It will
be a place where there will be splendid great water
tracks round which the souls of the Saved will rush
triumphantly at headlong speed in motor boats of local
design and construction.
» * * *
The old gentleman who wrote in Holy Writ ad-
monished the far-seeing man not to put his trust in
princes, but had he known anything about the N.S.W.
crowds which follow' sculling, he would have also warned
his hearers against the favor of the mob. On Saturday
morning rumors were flying round Sydney that Stanbury
had sold the race. No one claimed to have seen the
money passed over, neither was any found to swear he
saw the race delivered, but it was emphatically announced
that he had sold it, just as if it were the sort of thing the
sale of which a man carefully announces through the press
with full particulars and trimmings. Last year a similar
rumor went round, and, as far as writer can remember,
there w'as never a big race of any sort yet which some
wiseacre didn’t find out to be sold. Nevertheless, Stan-
bury started a hot favorite. When his victory seemed
assured, cheers of praise reverberated down the crowded
river banks. When Towns made his great spurt and drew
level, there was a solemn hush. As Towns shot away
in front of him, men stood up in boats and cursed
horribly regardless of whose ears were being offended,
and on the banks frantic idiots rushed into the water
and howled to the man in red and white hoops to shift
his blanky self. When he failed to do so they called him
a “blanky cow!” Then they remembered the wild
rumors of the morning l , and turned away swearing never
again to bet money on anything that can talk. Stan-
bury's lack of effort once Towns had passed him was what
roused the public fury, but that is quite explained by
the information that Stanbury was suffering from muscu-
lar rheumatism. Some people who have obviously never
had the disease are laboring under the delusion that once
the champion got warm he could not be attacked by mus-
cular rheumatism. Writer has had it 31 years, and places
his hand on bis affected heart and assures all whom it
may concern that the infernal thing hits you suddenly,
like a blow from a hammer, when you least expect it.
Had the race been arranged, it is much more reasonable
to believe that Stanbury would have been pipped just on
the post instead of breaking down half a mile from the
finish.
• • * •
Saturday’s race of the ex-champion scullers of
the world on the Parramatta River will be from Abbots-
ford to Mortlake picnic grounds, a distance of 1£ miles
with the tide. The first prize is £lOO, second £4O, third
£lO. Steamer receipts and any further moneys donated
will also be distributed among" the old fellows at the dis-
cretion of the committee. There are eight competitors,
whose total ages aggregate 465 years, and their total
weight 12Jcwt. Just fancy having over half a ton of
champion rowers afloat on one river ! The oldest of the
eight is Richard Green, who has reached 70, Rush and
Laycock are both 62, Beach and Reynolds are 66, Kemp
and Pearce 54, and John McLean, the baby of the crowd,
is 51. _ Rush is the heaviest man, weighing 15 stone—in
his prime he went 12st. 81b. Green used to row at list.
91b. ; on Saturday he will be 31b. lighter. The lightest of
them is Peter Kemp, who will start at list. 41b. Seems
a pity that the public did not subscribe a large prize fund
for so notable an event.
* * » *
The latest cricket bluff comes from the ex-
players who are now busy, per medium of brothers and
sisters and cousins and aunts, circulating reports that the
cream of the suspended gentry are to be given good
appointments in Melbourne to enable them to play in the
southern capital, and the pious hope is expressed that the
N.S.W. Cricket Association will not be so foolish as to let
them go. If the Association isn’t a fool it will certainly
let them all go. The Vic. Association must uphold the
N.S.W. disqualification, and the names of the ex-players
will be just as much Mud in Melbourne as in Sydney.
Even the Melbourne Cricket Club cannot help them. It
has rejoined, or is about to rejoin, the Association, and
must obey its rules. So, apparently, the late players will
have to go further afield, and get right away to some
State that has not a reciprocity agreement with the
Associations which will comprise the Board of Control,
before they can play even first-grade cricket. For
inter-State or international matches they are like the
foolish virgins — locked out. Tub Bulletin would like to
hear the ex-players’ candid opinion of the Melbourne Club
now.
**■ • •
South Australia having eaten the whole leek by
unreservedly abandoning all conditions, has been
admitted to representation by three members on the
Australian Board of Control for Cricket. Under
these circumstances Queensland should be immediately
granted three representatives. This is quite imperative.
The only Australian States now not represented on the
Board are Tasmania and Westralia—and neither of them
is to be taken seriously as regards cricket, although
occasionally one hears of the Tassies suddenly waking up
and doing things. But it doesn’t last long, and they
softly sink to slumber once more for a season or two.
■» » * *
Paddington (Sydney) Cricket Club, faced with
the choice of kicking its dead lions or being suddenly
struck dead, promptly kicked with both feet. Now it is
haunted with a dreadful feeling that it may have kicked
in vain after all, for it is not definitely known if the
Association had completed the making up of the season’s
programme, which it swore, once closed, should not be re-
opened. N.S.W. Cricket Association executive is com-
posed of as mild-looking a crowd of men as one could
wish to meet at a Mothers’ meeting, or a Vegetarian
Society’s banquet, but there seems to be a strong man or
two concealed about the premises, or else some of those
mild-looking men have no respect for the truth in thei
appearance. r
* * * «
The efforts of the ex-players to get themselves
invited to a “ conference ” in a manner that will make it
appear to the public that N.S.W. Cricket Association is
running after them, are amusing. Instead of approaching
their own Association in a straightforward way, Trumper,
Noble, Duff and Diamond went to the Victorian
delegates to the Board of Control. And the regret-
table part is that those delegates hadn’t the sense
to tell them that they had enough to do to look
after their own business. Which they have. Keep-
ing one eye perpetually on the Melbourne Club will take
up all the time of the Victorian Association. Naturally
the N.S.W. Association is not to be fooled by such a trans-
parent dodge. All this wild anxiety to see an English
team in Australia the comingseason arises from the fact
that an English team must come here before an Aus-
tralian team goes to England. These gentry probably
don’t care much about the English team coming here—
except that it will expedite the sending of another team
to England, which m.iy possibly mean more money for
some of them. The Board should resolutely set its face
against any visit from an English team next'season.
The publication of the alleged text of the “ Play-
ers’Agreement,” which some of the ex-players declared on
their honor they had not signed, has roused a storm of
feeling. Here is the supposed agreement:—
“We, the undersigned players of the Australian States,
hereby declare that we will play against an English team
in Australia if brought out by the Melbourne Cricket
Club and the South Australian Ciicket Association, on
any of the principal grounds in South Australia, Vic-
toria, New South Wales or Queensland, or we will play
against any English team sent out under the auspices of
the Marylebone Cricket Club to the Melbourne Cricket
Club.”
If this is true South Australia was in active conspiracy
with Melbourne Club to grab the control of Australian
international cricket. Also, in the face of this, what
becomes of the ex-players’ reiterated declarations that
they had not been disloyal to their State Associations?
* * » *
When the cricket trouble is finished, the
Queensland Cricket Association intends to demand the
playing of a test match in Brisbane during the next visit
of an English team. A prominent official of that body
states that not Brisbane alone, but Gympie, Maryborough
and Gin Gin are calling aloud fora test match to be played
in the Bananaland capital. He also reckons that Queens-
land’s claims are now as good as S. Australia’s. Where is
Gin Gin, anyway? Until it, or Brisbane, or Gympie, or
Maryborough produces better cricketers than Bananaland
has turned out so far, they may roar like the bulls of
Bashan without doing the Crow-eater State out of its test
match.
* • * *
Saturday saw the Rugby competitions resumed
in Sydney, and the first round came to an end, every
club having met every other club. Instead of playing a
second round the clubs now separate into two classes,
odd numbers in the competition list becoming class A
and the even ones class B. The result of Saturday’s
scramble was to leave Glebe at the head of the list with
19 competition points, Eastern Suburbs next with 17,
South Sydney third with 16, University and Newtown 15
each, Sydney and Balmain 15 and 12 respectively. The
tail end of the procession is brought up by Western
Suburbs with 9, St. George 8, North Sydney 6, and Manly
2. So A division will be comprised of Glebe,
South Sydney, Newtown, Balmain, St. George
and Manly ; while B will consist of Eastern Suburbs,
University, Sydney, Western Suburbs and North Sydney.
The clubs forming each division will play one round, and
then the four best will put up a further struggle
till the best of one division is left alone to meet the best of
the other division, and they will play off for the premier-
ship. This is an improvement and makes for additional
excitement.
* * * *
In spite of the big counter-attraction on the
Parramatta River, over 15,000 people watched Rugby in
Sydney, Saturday last. At University Oval, Glebe beat
Newtown by 11 to eight. But for missing two compara-
tively easy shots at goal early in the game, Newtown
would have beaten the leading team and probably have
changed the course of history. The course of history is
easily changed. Glebe’s attempts to work the machine
were smothered, and only the splendid work of full-back
Hedley saved the side again and again. Newtown played
a great game, but it was up against a team with which it
could afford to throw away absolutely no points, and it
dropped six overboard in the first ten minutes of the
match. The struggle in which Sydney beat South Sydney
was very stubborn. A cheerful wrestling match in
the middle of the field between two men who
had half the ground between them and the
leather added to the gaiety of the proceedings.
Sydney won the wrestling match as well as the
game, which was swift in every sense of the word. Last
year’s premiers were eventually beaten by seven to three.
Balmain’s victory over North Sydney was the closest of
close things, scores being 12 to 11. But Balmain played
far the better game, attacking all the time, and I tting
loose passing rushes that were very pretty. Nobody
expected Western Suburbs to hold its own against the
Eastern, yet the Western forwards beat their formidable
rivals for the leather very badly in the first spell. But
right through D’Alpuget’s defence was too solid, and then
in the second half the terrible Messenger unwound him-
self and carried confusion through the Western men, till
they were beaten by nine to three. A certain amount of
mild interest was manifested in the first meeting of the
two new clubs, St. George and Manly. Mostly it was a
scramble in which several men got laid out, but St.
George scored a field goal and a try. At the last Manly
startled the heavens by letting loose a four-man pass
which eventually notched a fine goal. Before it could
repeat the proceeding the official in charge poured
atmosphere through the whistle, and the game ended
with St. George six to five.
In Melbourne Saturday’s football progressed in
pleasant weather, though a stiff, snow-laden wind didn’t
improve matters. The largest crowd, of about 20,0')0,
went down to Fitzroy to see how the locals would shape
against the at-present all-conquering Essendon. They
shaped all right at first, and at half-time had secured 22
points to 11 ; but thereafter the ’Dons came with a
rush, and, though they had no system—both sides kicked
far too high to suit the prevailing wind—they were surer
and more persistent, and when the bell rang the board
showed Essendon 38 points to ’Roy’s 30. It was a pretty
game, very fast and open. Also, no less than eight players
were temporarily disabled—in fact, most of the time one
side or other was playing a man or two short. Another big
crowd attended in the expectation of seeing St. Kilda
give Collingwood a good go—but was sadly disappointed.
The ’Woods played their system—short, low, skimming
kicks from player to player—and the result justified their
action ; ’Wood 82 points, Saints 20. That virile old
battler—“ Surprising Reversal of Form”—put in his un-
desired appearance at the Carlton-South match, and left
the erstwhile top-notchers in the mud, the result—South
84 points, Carlton 45—being simply absurd on form. As
for the Association, the dies irce has evidently arrived for
“ West,” that redoubtable eighteen sustaining its second
consecutive defeat, this time to Williamstown by 52 points
to 62. As a consequence, West now takes second place
on the list, half a game behind North and the same
amount ahead of Richmond ; Footscray and Williams-
town following at hopeful distances, the incompetent
Essendon (Assn.) team at last managed t'o score its first
victory this season by beating Brunswick, and the pro-
spect so overwhelmed the Essendons or so annoyed the
BrunsWickers that the players got “into holts during
the last quarter. The crowd, of course, swarmed over
the ground to take a hand, and all was chaos. The score
of that match seems to insinuate that either the players
were all drunk or cross-eyed—Essendon two goals 14 be-
hinds, Brunswick no goals 10 behinds. When 36 men can
kick only two goals out of 26 reasonable shots, there is
something radically wrong with their eyesight.
* * * *
Newtown is now ahead of the Sydney League’s
football competition (Australian Rules) with 22 points,
Sydney second with 20, and Balmain and Redfern away to
glory with 16 each in the third place. In Saturday’s
play Newtown, after a hard struggle, beat Redfern by 42
to 38. Both teams displayed over-eagerness. Up till
half-time the Sydney men held their own against
Y.M.C.A. very well, and then, owing to having a number
of new men in the team, condition gave out, and the
Good Young Men swarmed all over Sydney, winning by 76
to 34. Out at Birchgrove Oval East Svdnev met a splen-
did team from Balmain. Easts played for their lives, but
the combination among the Balmainers was invincible,
and a stubborn defence was worn down and trampled
underfoot to the tune of 81 to 23.
* * * *
Football in Adelaide is particularly interesting
this season. With twb-thirds of the winter gone, Nor-
wood and Port Adelaide have lost only one match each.
North Adelaide, which appeared successfully in Sydney
the other day, is a humble and inferior third.
* * « *
A Victorian junior football team, the Alex-
andras, has just achieved a record. Having been beaten
fairly and squarely by the Bend Rovers, on the 14th,
they waited till the victors were leaving the ground, and
attacked them with blue metal. Two Rovers were
rendered unconscious and one had his skull fractured.
Later on all of the Alexandras team aDpeared in court
and were individually fined £2 for riotous behavior,
with the alternative of 14 days’ imprisonment. Whether
any of these young ruffians took it out is not stated, but
it seems a regrettable matter that they didn’t all get six
months.
* * * *
The rivalry for the Chamberlain Cup among
members of the N.S.W. Pioneer Motor Cycle Club is
growing keen. The possession of this elegant utensil is
to be decided by the highest number of points scored in
six monthly races. Two of these have eventuated,
Forrest Finlay winning the first on a 2£ h.p. machine of
his own make. Witham came second on a 5 h.p. twin-
cylinder Orient. The second race went to Jarman on a
3 h.p. Jarman machine, Witham again running second
and Finlay third. Witham is now equal in points to
Finlay. It is quite possible for the trophy to be secured
by a man who has never won a race, but who has finished
consistently second and third right through the contests.
The next race takes place on the Parramatta-Kingswood
road. Quite a number of the competitors have got new
machines for the event, and more are getting them.
Finlay has doubled his horse-power, and more twin-
cylinders are coming along. So the prospects of good
racing and exciting finishes are very hopeful.
* * * *
The Cycle Race for the Championship of
Brighton-Moorabbin district, of 25 miles, was run on
Wednesday afternoon, and brought out a big field. The
newly-laid metal in several portions of the road caused
much inconvenience, and the mud was also accountable
for some slow going in many places. However, the per-
formance of the winner, Mr. Jack Critchley, in riding the
25 miles in one hour and 13 minutes, is certainly a very
meritorious one, and much surprise was expressed by the
officials at the good time over such a bad course.
Critchley rode a locally-built machine, fitted with Wal-
lace-Continental Red Road Racing Tyres, which,
by the way, are the identical pair which he has
ridden for the past 12 months, and which have brought
him home winner in many such races. The second
and third men in the race also rode the same make of
tyres, which speaks well for this particular make, more
especially as they are of the light road-racing type.*
* * * *
Already there are 143 entries for the Wallace
Continental Road Race from Bathurst to Sydney, which
will be swelled by the names of club representatives. 80
there is just a chance that the race may see a record
start. Among those already listed are six South Aus-
tralians, one Westralian, one Queenslander, four Victo-
rians, and one Maorilander. All the rest are Cornstalks.
The prize-list totals £2OO, of which the winner will re-
ceive £5O. The contest takes place under the rules of the
League of Wheelmen.
* * • «
The Bulletin learns that the syndicate which
sent Dick Arnst from Maoriland to Sydney to be trained
by George Towns, with a view to making him a world
champion sculler, is not a profit-making combination.
There is real patriotism in Maoriland, and when an ath-
letic medico said that Arnst had all the physical para-
phernalia of a boss oarsman a number of citizens put up
the money to give him a chance of qualifying for the
position. The sum subscribed is sufficient to pay Arnsta
living wage and George Towns for training him. If he
eventually pulls himself in front of all competitors, the
syndicate will consider itself well repaid with the mad
delight of seeing a Maorilander champion boat-pusher of
the world.
* * » •
J. J. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet for 1906 is
available at the same old price as usual—one shilling
The Pamphlet supplies all the facts and figures relating
to entrants for the two Cups and the A.J.C. Metropoli-
tan, likewise lists of nominations for the classic weight-
for-age races. Apart from its turf chronicles this handy
little volume is a dictionary of record performances in
every kind of sporting competition where men compete
“on their own,” and not as members of “ teams.” Con-
cerning cricket and football the Pamphlet is discreetly
silent, but in its rowing news it includes a table of the
Interstate Eight-oar results. Glancing through the 224
pages of facts and figures one becomes aware that in spite
of Carruthers, the deadly effects of American sausages,
and other things, the race is improving. Arthur B.’
Postle broke the 75yds. record by flying over it in 7 l-6sec.
at Bun bury (W.A.); he also covered 126yds. in 12sec.,
and Nigel Barker covered 200yds. in 19 9-10 sec. The im-
provement extends to our horses, too. Marvel Loch’s
nine furlongs in lmin. 52£sec., Noctuiform’s and Mania-
poto’B mile and a half in 2min. 32£sec., Abdallah’s two
mile steeple in 3inin. 54sec., and Blue Spec’s Melbourne
Cup (2 miles) in 3min. 27£sec., are all evidences of im-
provement. Presumably, the time will come when these
distances will be accomplished in Omin. Osec., upon which
J. J. Miller’s useful book will cease publication.
* * « •
Punters are bound to fancy Florin and Realm
for the big Hurdle Race at Caulfield next Saturday if
both nags get to the post in good going order. Realm is
raised 241 b. and Florin 31b. on the weights they ..carried at
Flemington. The son of Majestic won so easily that he
appears to he well treated with his much heavier burden.
Florin, meeting him on 211 b. better terms, is just as dan-
gerous on paper, for it happened that the old fellow was
in an impetuous mood at Flemington, and if he makes a
more steady beginning this time he should be capable of
a more sustained effort at the finish. Besides, the dis-
tance is nearly half-a-mile longer than it was four weeks
ago, and the extra poundage will come heavier on Realm,
likewise Rattlesnake and The Shamrock, than on Florin,
who gets less of it.
* * * *
Now that an insolvent “fielder” has actually
met his doom at Flemington, there is a flood of testimony
re previous brutalities which nearly diminished the popu-
lation. “ Welsher baiting ” has been a diversion for the
toughs who were either themselves robbed of a “ bob ” or
two, or thought they knew of “ another bloke wot had
backed the blanky winner with the defaulting bloke."
One story tells of a big, bloodthirsty “ sport ” who caught
a fugitive welsher round the neck with a long handker-
chief, twisted it until the poor wretch’s eyes started from
their sockets, and then stoushed him unmercifully whilst
he was gasping for the breath of life. And all on account
of a “ bob ”or two ! To have seen a welsher maltreated
is to know the awful importance of two-and-sixpence to
those impecunious punters for whom “democratic”
John Wren professes to supply the Pleasures of Hope.
The Gambling Evil demoralises all men and women more
or less—just according to their means. One fool commits
suicide because he has been bested for £10,000; another
commits shocking personal violence on the person who did
him for 'arf-a-quid.
* * W *
Cross-country runners George Blake, Ferguson,
Alex. Stillwell and co. provided an interesting race over
seven miles, at Heidelberg (Melb.), on Saturday last.
Blake was conceded starts up to close on„6min., his
nearest opponent being 10-mile runner-up A. J. Bult, off
20sec., and the other aforementioned ones on £min. The
first half of the race saw the peds. struggling against a
heavy gale, which was hard graft owing to the course
taking in a series of hills. On the home journey, middle-
markers A. O. Dredge, P. Oldham and J. Stillwell forged
ahead with an assisting wind. Dredge, playing the dis-
tressed last-kick game, stole a march on t’other two, and
won by 75yds. from Oldham in 48min. lOsec. Stillwell was
in third position, 15yds. away. Blake made up 14 places
on the outward journey, and Ferguson 20 ; the “ Olym-
pian ” improving at every run, secured fastest time with
41min. 22see., defeating bygone Olympian Flack’s time for
the distance by lOsec. Great things were expected of Alex.
Stillwell, winner of the “ Tens,” who was said to have run
five miles on the previous Saturday in tne fast time of
28min. 42sec. However, Stilhvell repeated his prior open-
race performance by quitting half-way. The five miles
State supremacy, at Ballarat, on the 11th, will just about
predict the winner of the long event in September.
• * * *
In South Australia recently a coursing match
was won by a dead dog. Greyhound Sirene fell dead
while pursuing a hare in competition with Marjorie, but
only fell dead after having scored sufficient points to win
the match. The hare, thank heaven, got away. It has
always been said that a live dog is better than a dead
lion, and as this dead dog was better than the living one,
presumably it was also better than the lion.


A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“What
the dustman is to the dwelling in which we live,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known
medical writer.*
About the warmest reception G. H. Reid
received during his Queensland tour was in
Ipswich, a strong Labor constituency, repre-
sented by Ryott Maughan and barrister Blair—
the Minister for Justice. George had no sooner
arrived when Ryott poured out of his newspaper
office a damning “extra,” of which the chief
stmg was this extract from an old Reid essay on
Freetrade:—
Will it not be time enough to manufacture everything
for ourselves when we can save instead of lose by the
operation ? Will it not be well to reap the advantages of
pauper labor until we are so great a nation that we can
create pauper labor of our own?
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
Greybeard Gaunson, though he is old
enough to know better, is the most daring man
in Victorian Assembly. Bent was proudly de-
scribing to the House his proposal that hotel bars
should always be visible through a window from
the street, when old Gaunson desired to know
whether, if a lady boarder had a bottle of gin in
her bedroom, she must also be visible from the
street. Then he wagged his aged chin-mat in
silent mirth.
Quinine that does not affect the head,
Laxative Bronio Quinine Tablets represent
Quinine, combined with other ingredients, in the
most acceptable and efficacious form for colds,
influenza, grip, or any catarrhal disorders. Head-
.-iche and feverish, or malarious conditions. At
all chemists, Is. 1A1.*
ĥ
Merchant Tailor
E. T. WALSH,
New Four-Guinea Suitings.
Stylish Patterns. Expert Cutting. No Factory Work.
SAMPLES AND MEASURE FORMS SENT TO ANY ADDRESS.
The Largest High-Class Tailoring Establishment in the Commonwealth.
INSPECTION INVITED.
359 GEORGE. ST., SYDNEY
The U.S.A. Improved LIQUID PISTOL
It is Not a Toy.
SILENT and SMOKELESS.
THE BEST ON THE MARKET.
Invaluable for Cyclists, Unprotected
Ladies, Night Watchmen and others.
wr
Will Stop the Most Vicious Dog (or Man)
Without Permanent Injury.
Charged with Water, Ammonia, or other liquid, and will fire
10 shots from sft. to 25ft. without re-loading. Besides its
usefulness, the greatest fun imaginable to be had with the
Liquid Pistol. CAUSES ROAIiS OF LAUGIITER.
BTRONGLY MADE OF POLISHED NICKEL. The U.S.A. IM-
PROVED LIQUID PISTOL, with Extra Metal Covering and
Improved Trigger Device. Price 3/6 post free.
ALSO IN STOCK— ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPB, 3/0 and 7/6.
A. J. SMITH & CO., Martin Chambers (only) Cor. Pitt & Moore Sts., SYDNEY.
©
C;**.-
WEAR THE WELL-KNOWN
PERFECTA” SHIRT
(Regd). For Everyday Wear it cannot be beaten.
Ready to Wear
In Oxford Materials,
5/6
Fifty Patterns to
SeleA from.
f
Note. —Send at
once for Sample
Shirt,
C//» Post
°/° Free.
ALSO . . .
The Celebrated
“CE-STUS” SHIRT
Ready to Wear
In Ceylon Materials,
51 6
(Regd.)
For Country Wear.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD. Shirtmakers,
BOURHE ST.,
MELBOURNE
¥F you wish to BUY, SELL, or HIRE
* A MOTOR LAUNCH,
A SAILING YACHT,
or MARINE MOTOR,
Call or Write for List.
MOTOR LAUNCH AGENCY,
CIRCULAR QUAY. T. 1760.
THE
ents
of the
PIPE
are many, and Its principle Is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented from entering
either mouth or pipe
bowl. Every pipe is
guaranteed.
ħ
A
“MASTA”
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tobac-
cbnists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDHEIM*
GOTTHELL & CO., Sydney, j
X OUR HATS WILL X
HIT YOUR TASTE.
IT doesn’t take tall thinking to see the bene-
fit you get from wearing our Hard and
Soft Felt Hats. Even the tired Australian
knows that money spent in his country does
his country good—helps along the general
welfare. Our hats are made in Australia by
the most skilled Australians, paid full union
wages and working under union conditions—
the raw materials are bought in Australia—
and the finished article equals any made in any
part of the world. Never mind what Foreign
Traders say—they’re interested. Try one of
our hats ; you will never wear any other. Our
bats are made of pure sterilised fur —in every
shape and style suited to Australian needs.
They are hand-made, light and durable, and
the colors guaranteed fast dyed. They cost
10/6 and 12/6, from all leading stores
throughout the Commonwealth—be sure that
our full name is stamped on the inside leather
of each hat, without which none are genuine.
Austral Hat Mills,
X MELBOURNE. X
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
“C.C.H.”: All the week I have trudged about
with the weight of a nightmare upon me. I
cannot sleep for thinking that I am not as other men.
Every paper I take up is seething with indignation over
the death of a thief at Flemington on Steeplechase Day—
one Donald M'Leod. I have done my best to seethe, too,
and I have failed—failed ignominiously. It seems to me
that this man, depending, no doubt, on his own bulk and
the assistance of a few dishonest bullies, went to Fleming-
ton with the intention of deliberately robbing the public.
The public is a big, drowsy fool usually, but occasionally
—very occasionally—it wakes up, and then something has
togo. It awoke at the time of the French Revolution,
and the aristocracy went; it awoke again on Steeplechase
Day, and M'Leod went. Much innocent blood was shed
at the Revolution. No innocent blood was shed at Flem-
ington, for M'Leod hadn’t any. A welsher isn’t much
chop, but he, at least, is plucky enough to risk the
consequence of going to gaol if he gets caught.
But a scaler —pah ! A scaler is 20 degrees lower than a
welsher, and a welsher isn’t fit to live. A few of the
illustrated papers have cartoons depicting some horrid
ogre labelled “Gambling,” standing over the prostrate
form of a man. The prostrate one isn’t labelled anything,
but, presumably, he is intended for a saint, or some other
heavenly body. It is rather amusing when these papers
conjure up such ghastly demons as being symbolical of
gambling, considering that , every week you'find in their
columns a list of horses on which they advise you to
stake your stuff. This offence might be condoned if they
mentioned the right horse now and then, but they don’t.
I can see one great evil looming out of this event if the
V.R.C., or somebody responsible, doesn’t take steps to
have_ all unregistered bookmakers debarred from
r lemington Flat. It is this : In future undesirables who
make books without the slightest intention of meeting
their liabilities will be so well guarded by the police, that
anyone so much as scowling upon one of them will be
shot in and charged with attempted murder. Thus the
scaling paternity will live and fatten over the carcase of
dead.M Leod, and beglad in its heart for the circumstance
which brings them such protection.
* * * *
Can anyone call to mind a previous year in
which so many mares have been counted among the best
chances for Caulfield and Melbourne Cups ? Lady Wal-
lace, Gladsome, Lord Ullin’B Daughter, Noreen, Bright
t e S U ?, nd Marvel Loch are a very formidable lot, and
haay Wallace, given a full allowance of weigh t-for-a<>-e
improvement, is about the most favorably handicapped
° lal j * can< fldates for the Melbourne Cup (8.13). Her
record for last season was nine wins, two seconds, and
one third, and once unplaced at a time (August) when
she was not nearly fit. v b ’
* * # #
Melbourne detectives are an amazingly simple
lot. Hill who is alleged to have been responsible for the
Blue Jacket coup, carefully let it be known that he was
skipping from Melbourne per the Medic. The ’tecs wired
to Albany (W.A.), and the force went down in haste to
arrest him—and of course he wasn’t there. Even if he
left on the Medic, he wouldn’t see the Adelaide papers of
course, and wouldn’t know he was wanted !
* * * *
Sydney Rifle Club has passed a resolution ex-
pressing surprise and regret at the repeated refusals of
the Australian Government to provide the money to take
Australian rifle teams to Bisley. But, after all, would
the sending of half-a-dozen Australians to Britain every
year do anything worth considering to advance or popu-
larise rifle shooting in Australia? It would cost a deal of
money, which could be much better utilised in providing
prizes for local shooting. Very few of the best class of
riflemen could afford to go away to Britain, unless they
became professional shootists. The big prize in the shape
of an annual trip to England would only develop a hand-
ful of crack marksmen who would be either men living-
on the art, or men of leisure. And that is not what any
country should aim at. What is wanted is a system of
prizes available in every district, for which marksmen
can compete without undue travelling expenses or loss of
time, so as to encourage young men to take up rifle prac-
tice. We don’t want to raise a few score crack marks-
men who can beat the best riflemen in the world • we
require a system which makes the great bulk of the young
men thoroughly conversant with the use of the rifle—the
modern god of battles—and able, when the time comes
to lie behind rocks and tree-stumps and shoot down a
moving enemy at such a range as will make the enemy
feel sorry he spoke.
* * * + '
Buttan Singh has wisely decided not to wrestle
Clarence Weber before November, or thereabouts. The
brown man has suddenly taken unto himself a wife and a
pub., so he couldn’t be fairly expected to wrestle with
any new difficulty just at present. His time is fully occu-
pied in attending to the beer and telling Desdemona of
the battles he has waged.
The humble weekly biff at the Olympic Club’s
arena, Melbourne, last week, was between two aspiring
lightweights, Bull Williams, a nugget with a splendidly
developed figure, and Dave Gallagher, a pensive youth
with gray patches, who fights as if he were at his devo-
tions, and accepts fat punches with an expression of
thankfulness quite touching to see. Williams made the
fighting all the way, but David met him with some ex-
cellent lefts and spirited crosses, and did not show any
evil effects from the assaults of his more passionate
foeman. Stokesbury (referee) said that Williams had
won on points when the gong boomed calling them off.
* * * *
An uneventful glove affair happened at Mel-
bourne Cyclorama on Saturday night, before a house
consisting mostly of “bob” patrons. “Bill” Casey, of
N.S.W., engaged another “ Bill ” (Palmer) for 15 rounds,
that resembled a cross between the Cumberland style of
’rastle and a street affray. The contest at no stage
attained the dignity of stoush. Casey showed no expert
knowledge of the game, and frequently charged and
clinched, and from an affectionate position endeavored to
jab in short blows which more often struck his opponent’s
arms than landed with effect. Palmer was successful
with a clean left swing, that caused t’other “Bill’’some
discomfort to his countenance. Up till half-way the go
was very monotonous, the contestants hugging and
leaning till the crowd requested them to get a move on.
Palmer scored points all along the line with an occasional
swing, and this ultimately persuaded referee Stokesbury
to declare against Casey. Prior to the alleged principal
affair, Burke defeated Courtney, after seven rounds, for
the final of the “ club’s ” ten-stone competition.
An item from the report of the N.S.W.
Farmers’ and Settlers’ Conference :
One delegate quoted the case of a farmer who, having
worked his way up to affluence, gave his three sons £lOOO
each to go and make homes for themselves. “They have
spent every penny following up ballots, and still have no
land.”
And the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Association put up
as its candidate at Cootamundra a man who
hinders settlement by occupying something like
15,000 acres of land all on his little own.
Premier Bent’s long-delayed Lifts Regu-
lation Bill makes a start in the Vic. House of Fat,
piloted by Minister Sachse. It provides that the
Chief-Inspector of Factories shall supervise the
working of these machines. No person under 16
is to work an elevator, and all attendants over
that age must be certified as competent to manipu-
late the weapon. Penalty for breach of regu-
lations, £lO or 10 days, and a further £2 or two
days for each day while the breach lasts. But it
isn’t so much a complete set of regulations that is
needed as a quantity of sleepless vigilance ; and a
£lO fine, with £2 a day for a week or two added,
will induce a lot of vigilance. Possibly if the
inspector were also fined 10s. after a breach had
lasted three days it might induce some more
vigilance.
Sing the song of the five-starred cross,
Hung low o’er Southern. Seas,
Then tell about our frightful loss
From coughs and colds and sneeze :
Again, again let voices ring
In one great, grand bravure,
To praise the magic healing king—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Recent decisions of the N.S.W. Court of
Marine Inquiry are causing the tongue of derision
to be thrust into the hairy cheek of the local mari-
time person. Its verdict in the Buninyong-Criffel
collision (which resulted in £15,000 worth of
damage) was that everybody was to blame —the
skipper of the steamer, and the ditto of the ship,
the master of the tug towing the Oriffel, and the
pilot on its deck ; and as they were all wrong the
Court decided to punish nobody-—just the same as
if they were all righfa. The owners of the veasels
have to settle their own bills of costs. It is not
long since the same Court “sent up” for six
months one of the best-known sea-dogs in the
inter-Australian trade for slightly bumping a
small coasting vessel, yet here when all hands, on
a fine night, are alleged to have thrown rules and
regulations wholesale to the devil, the Court does
nothing, though it decides that it should have
done a lot of things.
“Hexham”: Be the right of Parliament
to interfere with causes being tried by Courts of
Law. Under Anne, an elector whose vote had
been disallowed at an election brought an action
in the Queen’s Bench against the returning officer.
The House of Commons, which claimed the sole
right of dealing with such matters, flew into a
rage, cried out “Privilege,” and ordered the
court to stay proceedings. Chief Justice Holt
disregarded the order, whereupon the angry mem-
bers dispatched the Speaker, accompanied by the
Sergeant-at-arms, the Black Rod, &c., in all their
wigs, robes and paraphernalia, to summon the
Judge to answer for his conduct before the House.
But Holt ordered the First Commoner out of the
court, saying in the robust language of a period
which alluded cheerfully to sections of the human
frame seldom mentioned nowadays: “ If you do
not straightway depart I will commit you, though
you had the whole House of Commons in your
belly.” And the Commons swallowed the insult.
George Reid comes back from Queens-
land with the sad news that the yarns circulated
by George Pile and his dog and Bruce Smith and
a whole lot of Reid’s old friends about the
deterioration of the white race in the north—the
yarns on which the alleged necessity for the
Kanaka was based —have nothing in them.
This was his report to Sydney Telegraph last
Tuesday :
I feel that I now know a great deal more about Queens-
land. I had, as every man ha 3, an idea as to the great-
ness of its resources, but this visit has brought the fact
home to me in a very strong light. Then I had a sort of
idea that, as I got north, about Townsville and Cairns, I
should meet a more or less debilitated generation of the
British race ; but, instead of that, l met men who have
been living in those parts 20, 30, and 40 years, who were
in the best of health and strength. It was quite a revela-
tion to me to see the strong, active, energetic people
there after a long residence in North Queensland.
G. Reid also stated that he found Queensland
prospering very much under the rule of Labor-
Premier Kidston ; as the Telegraph put the
matter: “It is getting on well enough without
resorting to Socialistic experiments.” The Tory
press is very uncertain in its mind about Kidston.
When it hears that things are going badly in
Queensland it calls him a Socialist, and when it
hears that things are going well it says that he
isn’t a Socialist.
The antiquated Melbourne Argus emits
the following screech (27/7/’O6): —
If the telephones were in the hands of private com-
panies, subject to competition, there would be no such
menaces addressed to customers. On the contrary,
every effort would be made to popularise the system by
keeping it thorougly efficient and promising all the very
best treatment possible for the money paid.
What competition is there even when tele-
graphs and telephones are privately owned ?
One company soon swallows another. Why
isn’t there tramway competition or gas-light-
ing competition in Melbourne? And why
doesn’t the Melbourne Tramway Co. give the
“ very best treatment ” by reducing its exorbitant
fares ? It “ promises,” and that’s as far as it gets.
Observe the Argus uses the word “promises.”
Private Enterprise is great at promising,
Bill Johnson, M.H.R., broke out on last
“Grievances Night” in the Reps, against the
pernicious doctrine of “ Australia for the Austra-
lians.” Bill’s woe was that somebody proposed
that in naval and military matters Australian
experts should have a say. Bill wept over the
benches, and brought forward the superior claims
of Englishmen in England because they have had
experience of totally different conditions. Poor
old Bill argued that “ Australia for the Aus-
tralians” meant logically Australia for the
aborigines, and spouted this piffle to members
who, before they represented their country, were
supposed to have passed in the Second Reader
and to have got beyond Johnson. N.S.W., and
the House of Rep 3., and the Commonwealth in
general get too much Johnson.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report: The wool
market has shown some improvement on the weak tone
exhibited at the monthly auctions held on the 18th inat.,
and we have now disposed of upwards of 400 bales at a
marked advance on auction bids. Trade in the manu-
facturing centres continues good, the consumption
being greater than for many years past. Affairs in
Russia, however, have added a great deal of uncertainty as
to the future. Shearing is now proceeding at Canonbar
and Wilgar Downs in the West, and we have already
received the first instalment of these clips. Our London
house cabled us on the 20th inst.“ The wool sales
closed dull, and prices show a decline as compared with
last series as follows: Good merino 7J per cent., lower
sorts 10 per cent., crossbreds with fewer exceptions 5 to
10 per cent. Out of 18,000 bales available in London for
the series, 60,000 bales have been taken by the home
trade, 36,000 bales for the continent, 18,000 bales with-
drawn and unoffered, 4,000 bales for America.”*


A. SAUNDERS
THAT’S THE NAME.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MANICURE SET,
comprising: 5 pieces.
Ollier Styles.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK,
in Silk-lined Case, 7s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
UC2huil(Uii
IS
mi
Sfi
I
\S i
m
m
A. SAUXDERS.
CAR RIAGE CLOCK,
Sterling Silver mounted.
First-class Timekeeper, 15s.
Extra Quality, 20s.
SB
5*
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid English Oak INK STAND, Nickel Mounts,
Cut Glass Bottles. 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s Gd, 12s 6d, to £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver, eomprisir'
articles, 15s 6d.
Larger Size, ISs Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, • Pure Silver Plated,
Handsomely Embossed, Silk-lined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s fid, 20s, 22s 6d, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Fine White Bristles, 10s Od.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
by Mail.
Personal service in
our Mail Order
Department
enables
us to
serve you by Mail
anywhere,
as perfectly as if
you visited our
Showrooms.
All Goods sent
Post Free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted
PIN CUSHIONS,
Heart Shaped, 2s 6d.
Larger, 3s 6d.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SAFETY VESTAS BOX
HOLDER,
Richly Embossed, 7s 6d.
Cherub Design, 8s 6d.
Free to All.
No matter
where you live,
if you have a copy
of our Illustrated
Catalogue,
you can obtain the
latest goods delivered
to your own home,
at City Prices.
Write for our
Catalogue
to-day. We send
it Post Free
to any address.
A. SA'UNDHRS.
HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Solid Silver,
In Velvet-Lined Case. 15s (3d.
Other Styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Solid Silver EAU-l
DE-COLOGNE BOTTLE,
Cover and Stopper, 30s.
Larger, £2
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass
, . TOILET BOTTLES.
Richly Embossed. Solid Silver Tops, in 3
7s 6d. 8s 6d. 10s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
Self Rolling RAZOR STROP,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand-
somely Embossed, 20s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 13s 6d,
17s 6d, 255.
A. SAt >.I)KRS.
Gent.’s MILITARY HAIR BRUSH
Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles, 15s.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR PIN BOX, Solid Silver Top,
?ine Hobnail Cut Glass, Size 6in. x llin.,
10s 6d.
Other Styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile LEATHER PURSE and CARD CASE
Combined, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d. 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Mounted Head
SALTS BOTTLE, Ss fid.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAU NULLS.
Morocco Leather
CHATELAINE BAG,
Sterling Silyer Mounts
and Lock, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Morocco Leather
LETTER CASE,
Pure Silver Mounts, 12s 6d.
Without Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 15s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH,
Pure S..ver-I .ated, Real
Badger Hair, 5s 6d.
Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
Comprising 2 Richly Embossed HAIR BRUSHES and
GOMB, in Silk-lined Morocco Case, £3.
Other Styles, £4 10s, £5, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SERVIETTE CLIP,
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SUid Leather Wallet
POCKET BOOK,
Silk-lined, fitted with
every convenience, 5s 6d.
Other Styles. 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hobnail Cut Glass Head
SALTS BOTTLE,
Pure Silver Top, 10s 64
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CLOTH or HAT BRUSH,
Pine Long White Bristles. 5s 6d.
Other Styles, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
sllsi§Hl3sK
83
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver CARD CASE,
Handsomely Engraved, 15s 6d.
Without Lid, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 255, 30s.
22£
Gent.’s Gold-Mounted Amber CIGARETTE HOLDER,
in Solid Silver or Plain Cases, 12s 6d. Chased, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
CIGAR Size, 15s 6d, 17s (id, 20s.
i
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TOILET SET,
in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass TOILET BOTTLES,
Richly Embossed, Solid Silver Tops, £2 ss.
Larger, £3 10s, £4 4s.
Hi
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Leather PURSE,
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Mounts and Lock, 15s 6<L
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s t!d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent's Solid Silver SHAVING SET,
Comprising Shaving Brush, Soap Holder, and
Powder Jar, in Silk-lined Leather Case, £3.
A.SAUNDERSI
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSIVIITH, and OPTICIAN, )
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


m
A
5f
w mm.
r ■
m
'mai.w.:. y*
VV
«
m, *t
■; i .
// / . 1
s&:>, fe
swra*:? ’
Y
Sri
««i
iv. ;• $
e;;yj
i uras
S''
1 •m• «a ,41 mWi
;, ' V '•%s>%
I I -
mmmm
M' . \ i ■■'
iftL...... •• »V .
■;.:
sSsswfta
v af? Wms: W
?i«ii
! . I 5. H
■B I
IStjSi
mam
im* *f' :
• fm
■
figs
&?!fwr- !>
ill
Wie 9>eaA rein €xpredd.
Cbt 0* HlwnWH Bdn l«r M P(U Mil Btarict. •3'-
I. J. »<KH, Proprlrlor.
• j,
i*j <> +4H) 'lyjUL*,, /j* >*
* . Ar**^
./% fh /vifftKO.
CL-<jA. cr>~m*y4
JfolrvX} SXI/y
v .
q6~v«-^7
G^&-4.U*O
X
*O.
X
n..
X "‘ss s
"X
X
X
v-
'w
X
\
\
%
f.
&
/V
Ts.V'
Vi V y,
k
*/\ _ _.
y *4* 5*
y
ct/
OF Gum, -*i <yrx.dvrx. cl n,ucu~,
dcuiYi, /2 fu (frCuv'tOLfurriA
ctr-fxrr- am* cvqcldrvi &L
luajl aJL a* '-iMiyy-
co'rv ot (FruurrCL wira, ( to.
®*tyJ-/usnU. tcnr*. QjUv-V Mutn^
■fir* Y«yV^-"tK cr f"
“«x>"'*3r V — S'
-V *• '*'*'*''&* T*^'
\
4 H* .>
s.
3l
R*
V
\^3
r%
v
N
s-
■^X
Z' jj. c
k'-B.rff.O. ffact /Z*
*/ »Us*M-kJo
fc*J
/U*jt*~. *&■ -vtvyfttf-*- 6<tCs *^"7
J siL yvt'i"- • /^-
& fa~- -i-t<V. ■**“> / —'
tL.
y^vcLA**
Satisfaction AO Round.
From every quarter comes warm
appreciation of Vice-Regal Mixture- a
tobacco perfectly cool, exquisitely
sweet, and delightfully flavored.
If you are unable to obtain Vice-
Regal Mixture from your Storekeeper
or Tobacconist, send us a penny stamp
(for postage) and we will forward a
FREE SAMPLE.
In every tin of Vice-Regal Mixture
is placed an inset. On receipt of 12
insets we will forward post free to
any address
An Embossed Ash Tray
as shov/n here considerably reduced
in size.
W. D.&H. O. Wills
Sydney.
P.S.— lvet us have your opinion of
the Mixture.


CHICAGO HORRORS.
Australian Traitors.
£168,000 Value of Preserved Meats
Imported into Australia.
Enough. Poison to Decimate Half the
Population.
Australia Must Wake Up.
The Foreign Traitor is Within Her Oates.
At no time in the world’s history have people
swallowed so many drugs and poisons as during
recent years. Pill foundries flourish, and drug
stores abound in every street —while dentists,
doctors, and undertakers amass fortunes with
ease and certainty. The reason is easily found in
the two following facts :
1. There is scarcely a man, woman or child that
has not something the matter—some ailment—
some disease or defect, either mental, moral, or
physical.
2. There is scarcely a single article of food to
be found to-day which is not more or less
injurious, either through being prepared from
inferior or improper ingredients, or on account of
the use of chemical preservatives.
It has been scientifically proved that all of the
preservatives used in foods, however small the
quantity, have the effect of corroding or eating
away certain tissues of the internal organs, notably
of the kidneys, and so inducing serious disease—
in order to cure which, doctors give still other
chemicals—other drugs—thereby undoubtedly in-
ducing other diseases and derangements. Now,
as all drugs are injurious, and all chemicals
inimical to health, and as nearly all the food one
eats is also chemiealised, embalmed with preserv-
atives, &c., is it any wonder that the bulk of
mankind is diseased ?
The revelations in America anent the'Meat
Horrors, although almost too awful for belief, are
nevertheless only too true. Unfortunately, a lot
of it has been imported to Australia. It seems
incredible that meat should be imported here, and
yet it is a fact that during the past seven years no
less a sum than £1(18,000 has been paid for meat
imported into Australia, and sufficient poison
with it to account for a considerable proportion of
the prevailing impaired national health.
The folly of importing meat into Australia
must surely be patent to anyone, and ought to be
prohibited by law.
When Australia was first founded it was quite
necessary to import everything, consequently the
Importers obtained a tight grip upon the country,
and, as time went on, became still more and more
important, and in fact have, in recent years,
emerged from the chrysalis of the Importers’
Gang to be the IMPORTANT Gang, and are
making a struggle to hold that position
by every means, political and otherwise, in prder
to foist the poisonous meat and shoddy goods of
foreign countries upon Australia. Australia now
recognises this gang, not by the name of FREE
TRADERS, but by the truer title of FOREIGN
TRAITORS.
Now as to a New Method. —To remedy the
the existing national impairment, to regenerate
our people, to prevent and banish disease, Pure
Foods are a prime necessity, and not only so, but
all foods ought to be as natural as possible,
because a natural food being pure food, will pro-
duce pure blood, and pure blood will build up a
healthy body. In the treatment and cure of
chronic diseases, drugs and operations must be
avoided.
During many centuries of man’s evolutionary
environment, he has consistently looked to the
vegetable world for those remedies necessary to
cure him when ill—in other words, back to Nature.
In the leaves of the trees, and in the herbs
of the field only can be found Nature’s true
healing specifics. On this account, most especial
attention is directed to the fact that there are
innumerable cases of deeply-seated, obscure, in-
tractable, and supposed-to-be-incurable diseases,
which baffle the whole medical world, and yet
such cases are now being readily cured in a per-
manent manner by the new and right-ahead-of-
date methods of Mr. H. E. Kugelmann,
the Famous Consulting Herbal Practitioner and
Gifted Diagnostician, of 14-16 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne ; Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane. A con-
fidential consultation with him will convince any
sufferer that he completely understands the
deeply-seated causes of disease, and, what is still
of more importance, he knows how to cure it.
Mr. Kugelmann may be consulted as per list of
dates on the following page, and chronic sufferers
ought to avail themselves of the opportunity to
obtain his exceptionally skilful advice and treat-
ment. He possesses the gift of intuitive diagnosis,
and can tell patients what is the cause of their
disease, without being in any way informed by
them, and will give a straight-out opinion as to
whether the case is curable or not. If preferred,
a legal agreement is entered into for a complete
cure for a lump sum in each instance.
All consultations are charged a fee of 10s., and,
after obtaining, his diagnosis, patients can have
treatment or not, as they please. If the treat-
ment is taken the fee charged is deducted. Mr.
Kugelmann has effected hundreds and thousands
of the most remarkable cures in modern history,
and has practised for over 38 years.
By Mr. Kugelmann’s method of treatment
operations are not necessary, as Tumors, Growths,
Cysts, Gall Stones, Appendicitis, Fistula, Hip
Disease, and all internal morbid formations, are
cured and dissolved painlessly, Movable or Float-
ing Kidney, and internal displacements of every
kind are cured without resorting to the pain and
danger of operations. If unable to consult him
personally, write full description of your case,
and enclose postal note for 10s. fee, and address it
to him to his Head Office, 14-16 Queen Street,
Melbourne, on receipt of which a diagnosis will
be sent at the earliest possible moment. If fee is
not enclosed no reply will be sent.
Mr. Kugelmann has been consulting in Aus-
tralia for over 38 years, and at regular intervals
consults at his permanent offices in the different
capitals of Australia and the more important pro-
vincial towns of the various States, which enables
chronic sufferers who prefer to consult him per-
sonally, the opportunity of doing so. Schedule
of consulting dates for the next four months will
be found on next page.
It has been found that in giving evidence it is
necessary for the deponent to swear to the truth
of his assertions, such oath rendering him liable to
imprisonment if false. Now, this is exactly what
has been done by those many thousands of persons
cured by Mr. Kugelmann of every supposed-to-be-
incurable disease on earth ; they have sworn to
the truth of the statements they have made, so
that all may know that they are true.
Read the Following Sworn Certificates of
Cases Cured after all Medical Men had
Failed to Benefit Them ■
Pits Cured near Toowoomba.
Crow’s Nest, Queensland, 15/11/04.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting ilerbal Practitioner,
Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —It is now about four years since I became
afflicted with Epileptic Fits. The first seizure 1 had took
place while I was in church on Sunday morning. 1 had a
very bad attack, as I was in an unconscious state of
mind until the following morning; in fact, my friends
thought I would pass away without coming to again.
After l regained consciousness 1 was in quite a dazed
condition. The dazed feeling kept up for some time.
I then consulted a doctor in Toowoomba, and he pre-
scribed for me. 1 took his treatment regularly, but the
fits recurred seven times altogether, and after a'while the
attacks left me for some time, only to, unfortunately,
return. At this time I was strongly recommended to
consult you about my case, which 1 did the next time
you came to Toowoomba, and after you examined me
you informed me that 1 had epilepsy of fits, and that you
could cure me permanently. I therefore decided to
undergo your treatment, and as a result have received a
complete cure and genuine restoration to health. Only
recently I have gone through some trying mental expe-
riences, and yet have remained quite well. I trust this
statement may be the means of making some other
sufferers as thankful as I am, for it is truly a wonderful
blessing to be cured of such an affliction.
(Signed) ARTHUR RICHARD ASKIN.
Sworn before me, at Toowoomba, Q., this 16th No-
vember, 1904.
(Signed) ROBERT RENWICK, J.P.
Seven Tears’ Chronic Bleeding Files
Cured.
200 Dryburgh-street, North Melbourne,
Victoria, 6th June, 19f <i.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN,
Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in testifying to the
great and lasting benefit which I have received from your
skilful treatment. For several years I suffered from
Chronic Bleeding Piles, and Prolapse of the Lower Bowel,
during which time I tried all kindsof remedies known, with-
out receiving any improvement, as the malady gradually
grew worse. This so troubled and incapacitated me day and
night, that I was debarred from following any employ-
ment, either active or sedentary—in fact, I was driven to
despair of ever getting cured. While in this dilemma,
one of your circulars was put under my door, and after
perusing same I determined to get your advice. On see-
ing and consulting you, I was told at once that my malady
was curable, and that you would undertake to treat me
for a given sum. I thereupon agreed, and went under
your treatment, and strictfy carried out your in-
structions and treatment. At first I thought I
was getting worse, but after a time I gradually
got better, until I became completely cured. I will
say that during the time I was under the treatment I re-
ceived the utmost civility and attention. Thirteen years
have now elapsed since I was cured, during which time
no signs of a relapse of the complaint have appeared. It
is with many thanks to God and you as His agent 1 now
conclude, heartily wishing you every success and pros-
perity. Any persons who are desirous of having a per-
sonal interview' with me with inference to these state-
ments shall be gladly welcomed.
Yours verv sincerely,
(Signed) JOHN FEED ERICK BYNG.
I, JOHN FREDERICK BYNG, of Dryburgh-street, in
the State of Victoria, do solemnly and sincerely declare
the above written statements, signed by me, are, to the
best of my belief and knowledge, true in every particular,
and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously be-
lieving same to be true, and by virtue of an Act of Parlia-
ment of Victoria rendering persons making a false de-
claration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
(Signed) JOHN FREDERICK BYNG.
Declared at North Melbourne this 7th day of June,
1906, before me.
(Signed) J. BARWISE, J.P.
Chronic Epileptic Fits Cured.
Doctors and Drugs Failed.
Moyhu, Vic., 22nd August, 1895.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN.
Dear Sir,—l wish to place on record my testimony to
the wonderful cure by you of my distressing case of Epi-
lepsy, or Fits. I wish to let everyone .znow- about it, so
that sufferers from that complaint may know where to go
for effective treatment, as you completely cured me over
nine y ea «;^ } WALTER ALFRED FORGE.
Sworn this 22nd day of August, 1895, at Wangaratta,
before A PINK ERTON, J.P.
FOREIGN TRAITORS
o c»
HAM • t
lAPAM V
f'tocv;
OC.RMANY
i¥.-
Kg
r-V-A JAPANEit
V°‘m£ s \ soar
<*S~ VITMtiM
HIDES
i CXosi
[Ugg
**Stand back, you Foreign Traitors!
only Australian-made Goods.* 1
We buy
Six Years’ Chronic Asthma.
Toowoomba Doctors Failed.
Toowoomba, Queensland, 17th December, 1902.
Extract or Sworn Ckktikicatk.—“ I first became sen-
ously ill about six years ago with Asthma, Bronchitis,
and Catarrh. I tried four different doctors without
getting any relief. One of them ordered me to go to the
hospital. My complaint steadily grew worse, especially
the asthma, which became inveterate. I had to sit
propped up in bed night after night. I could not get
anv rest or ease, and sleep was out of the question, lne
attacks of asthma were so severe 1 was many times in
danger of smothering. I would rush out into the open
air, and would’fall down exhausted on to a chair. I lost
all appetite, and even the sight of food was repellaut.
My strength gradually left me. After every attack of
asthma 1 was in mortal dread of the next, and often I
wished I was dead. I got no rest day or night, and the
constant coughing wore me out, and the quantity of
phlegm I used to expectorate was really incredible. I
was repeatedly examined by doctors, who did me
no good whatever, with all their prescriptions and treat-
ment. Living in an inland climate, I went by doctor’s
advice to the seaside for a change, but got no better.
1 also tried all the patent medicines for asthma
that are known, with the same result. This state of
affairs continued month after month for a number of
years. On one occasion my husband called on the doctor,
and asked him what really was the matter with me. The
doctor then said he was very sorry, but that I could not
be cured, as I was in consumption, and said that the only
chance to lengthen my life would lie to take me to a dry
hot climate ; he also told my husband not to tell me, as I
would most likely fret, but when he came home I knew at
once that he was the bearer of bad news, for he looked so
distressed, and I asked him did the doctor tell him I was
in consumption, and he said “ Yes,” so the news was out.
1 then called on one of the three doctors I went to at
first, and asked him to sound me. In doing so, he was
much surprised to find that I had failed so much, and
told me my left lung was one-half decayed, and that I
was in the second stage of consumption, and ordered me
coil liver oil, and of course I got no better from that. At
this time I read of Mr. Kugelmann and his wonderful
success, so my husband said I should try him. I
said it was useless to throw away any more
money, as I would only die after all, and that surely
after four doctors had failed I could not be cured. How-
ever, I did consult him at one of his visits to Toowoomba,
and to my surprise he told me all my symptoms without
asking me anv questions, and that more correctly than I
could have told him myself, tie told me that he could
cure me if I went under his treatment at once, which I
did. After the first dose of his medicine I slept 14 or 15
hours, it was the first good sleep I had had for many
years. After six months of his treatment I began to
mend rapidly, much to the surprise of everyone, as it was
supposed that 1 could not live—that no treatment could
save me. I persevered with Mr. Kuglemann’s treatment,
and gradually improved in every way, and increased in
weight. I have increased altogether over two stone
since I took Mr. Kuglemann’s treatment. I have not had
an attack of asthma for two years, and am now com-
pletely cured of the chronic asthma, catarrh, and lung
troubles.
(Signed) (Mrs.) CATHERINE MARY RYAN.
Of the Range, Helidon, Q.
Sworn before me, at Toowoomba, Q., this 17th Decem-
ber, 1902.
(Signed) R. ROSENSTENGEL, J.P.
Eighteen Tears’ Bleeding Tumor cured
Seven Operations Failed.
Riverton, South Australia, February 19,1904.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner
Dear Sir, —I began to suffer about 13 years ago with
internal troubles. I suffered from internal hemorrhage
in a very severe form. I went to a chemist before con-
sulting any medical man, but he nearly poisoned me. I
then consulted a doctor at Riverton, who said I was
suffering from severe internal troubles. After treating
me for some time, he sent me to a private hospital, where
I was attended to by one of the leading doctors in Ade-
laide, the result of which was that my ailments did not
receive any lasting benefit. The Adelaide doctor said
that I had no internal tumor at this time. I went home
to Riverton, but kept exceedingly weak ; in fact, I kept
getting weaker, and the bleeding again came on. I then
went to Adelaide again to a celebrated doctor of that city,
who examined me and said that I had an internal growth,
and so long as a particle of it was left it would grow,
and said it must be operated on. That was 12 months
after I first became ill, and I went under no less than
three operations at this period. I left Adelaide and
went home, and was well enough for a week or two,
and then I was bad as ever. I lost enormous quantities
of blood ; in fact, the wonder was that 1 did not bleed to
death. In spite of all the treatment I had I kept getting
worse. I went under no less than four operations during
the ensuing 12 months, but the bleeding kept on inter-
mittently, draining my life away. The doctor told my
brother-in law that I would never be well, because a cure
was impossible. Altogether I underwent seven operations
at the hands of the doctors, and I became weaker after
each successive operation ; in fact, I became so weak
that I despaired of life itself, and considered nv,self
beyond the reach of all human aid. It was at this stage
that I heard of your treatment; in fact, 1 was ill in bed
when my eldest daughter drew my attention to a testi-
monial in one of your books that had come some time pre-
viously. I was much impressed with the number of re-
markable cures effected in cases that seemed worse than
my own ; therefore, as soon as I could, I consulted you in
Adelaide, and I must say l was much pleased with the
diagnosis you made of my case, which was so different
to what I had been used to, and on receiving an assur-
ance that you could effect a complete cure without
operating, f commenced your treatment, the result of
which was that I soon began to improve, and, although
the bleeding did not leave me at once, it gradually les-
sened, and after some time completely ceased. It is now
about five years ago since your treatment effected a
complete cure of my case, and as so many years have
elapsed, and I still remain in the best of health, I feel
sure that I am justified in stating that a lasting cure has
been effected, and I consider it only right, for the benefit
of humanity, that a treatment like this, which can effect
a cure of internal growths, tumors, etc., without opera-
tions, should be widely known. I am, therefore, desirous
of having these facts published amongst your numerous
testimonials.
(Signed) (Mrs.) MARY JANE MITCHELL.
Declared before me, this eighth day of March, 1904.
(Signed) FRED. NORTON, ,T.l\
Twenty-Five Year’s Chronic Epilepsy
Cured.
Doctors Failed.
Goyura, Victoria, 19th November, 1895.
Mr. H. KUGELMANN, Consulting Llerbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —For the benefit of other sufferers, I wish you
to publish a statement of my case of Epileptic Fits, suc-
cessfully cured by your llerbal Magnetic Treatment. ]
was only at the age of thirteen years when the distressing
disease made its first appearance, and 1 was a great
sufferer for over 25 years. First, when I took the fits,
they came on me like a faint, and mostly at night-time
in my sleep, and I knew nothing, nor could I feel any-
thing. 1 was quite senseless while they lasted, and after
the fit was over I used to fall into a deep sleep ; and when
1 got up in the morning I could scarcely stand, I felt so
weak and faint, and my body all strained, and a wearied
feeling all through the system. 1 felt this feeling for
two or three days before 1 got better. 1 thought it was
only weakness, and that it would wear away in time, but
1 found to my sorrow that the fits were coming oftener
and more severe. My head used to get so giddy, with
noises in my ears. 1 used to go in a melancholy state for
days, until at last I went to a medical doctor neartlolac,
where I used to live, and he told me it was weakness and
growing too fast, and that it was nothing serious,
and 1 would soon be all right. I continued his treat-
ment for some time, but 1 found it was not doing me any
good ; the fits came on all the same. Then I came into
the Wimmera district, near Rupanyup. I consulted
another medical doctor in Stawell, and he treated me for
about eighteen months, and did not do me any good
whatever I got disheartened with taking so many
medical drugs that I gave it up for a time. My health
grew worse, and I tried another medical doctor in
Murtoa. I carried out his instructions for about two
years, which did me no good. 1 took no more medicine
for a while. I did not know what to do. It was costing
me a lot of money for doctors, and I was not getting any
relief nor any satisfaction as to the cause of the fils. I
was then instructed by a friend to write to a doctor of
Hyde Park, London. 1 described my case to him, and he
sent me a box of medicine. I took this medicine for six
years ; for the first three months I thought it was doing
me a little good, as the fits were not so frequent, so I
continued the medicine, but I found in time that it
was injuring my body. I would have given it up
before, but my husband persuaded me to continue
it so long. Gave up all hope and medical aid,
and wondered if all my life was going to be
spent in such a miserable existence. I was worn
to a perfect skeleton, and so weak that my was a
burden tome. I then heard of Mr. LI. E. Kugelmann’s
great fame. I went to consult him on one of his visits to
Alurtoa, and when he sounded me he told me the whole
of my trouble, and satisfied my mind by telling me the
cause of my disease, and that he could cure me. I there
and then agreed with him, and carried out his treatment,
and with good effect. It was a happy day for me when 1
met Mr. Kugelmann. People told me that he would not
cure me ; that I was only throwing money away. But 1
soon got well, and gained strength every day, and am
altogether a different woman, and have had no fits nor
any symptoms of them ever since. It is now four years
since! have seen Mr. Kugelmann or taken any of his
remedies, so I consider rnvself perfectly cured, and I feel
under a deep debt of gratitude to him for his kindness to
me. I hope he will publish this far and wide for the bene-
fit of other poor sufferers. Trusting this will do good,
am, most gratefully,
(Signed) (Mrs.) D. McLEAN.
Read Ho-w Mr. Kugelmann cures
“Incurable” Hip Disease.
Recently Sworn at Gympie, Queensland.
Chatsworth, Gympie, Queensland, 19th March, 1906.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN, Consulting Llerbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —I would like to add my testimonial to .your
numerous and wonderful cures of chronic cases. About
four and a half years ago my little daughter, Catherine,
aged four years, began to walk lame on her right leg. I
immediately took her to a doctor at Gympie, who informed
me that it was only the result of growing pains, so I took
her home. About a month later she became worse, so I
took her to another doctor at Gympie, and he said it was
a case of hip disease, and that it was quite incurable. I
then put her in Gympie Hospital, and the doctors there
pronounced it to be a case of hip disease, and decided to
operate on her leg, which they did, making no less than
six cuts on the affected leg, thereby disfiguring the child
for life. There were no marks on the child before the opera-
tion, and no swelling, but afterwards she had sores which
discharged running matter, and complained of great pains
in her affected limb. She remained in the hospital for about
two years, during which time she became worse, until she
was nothing more than skin and bone. I was then told at
the Hospital that her case was incurable, and was advised
to send her to Brisbane to the home for incurables, which
I refused to do. Owing to the Hospital people insisting
on my removing the child, I took her home and was more
than shocked to see how her leg was cut about, and the
nasty wounds on it. I did the best I could for her for a
month or six weeks, when hearing of Mr. H. E. Kugel-
mann’s visit to Gympie, and the wonderful cures he had
effected, I decided to try the cure, and my daughter
commenced with his treatment in August, 1904. He
examined the child, and said at once that her case was
one of hip disease, and that he could effect a cure. When
the child began the treatment with Mr. 11. E. Kugelmann
she was wearing a Hospital splint and could hardly
hobble about on it with crutches, and after six weeks’
treatment she began to walk without ,her crutches and
splint, and gradually became stronger, and her general
health also greatly improved, and at the end of sixteen
months she was completely cured and has remained well
ever since, and at present is walking a mile to school and
back every day, and never complains or says she is tired.
(Signed) (Mrs.) A. M. CISLOWSKI.
I, Annie Mary Cislowski, of Chatsworth, Gympie, in the
State of Queensland, do hereby' solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have read the above particulars hereunto
attached, and written by me, and the same contain a true
and faithful account of the illness and cure of my
daughter, Catherine Elizabeth Cislowski, by Mr. H. E.
Kpgelmann, and I make this solemn declaration conscien-
tiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
Oaths Act, 1867.
Signed and declared by the above-named Declarant,at
Gympie, this nineteenth day of March, one thousand nine
hundred and six.—(Signed) (Mrs.) ANNIE MARY
CISLOWSKI.
Sworn this nineteenth day of March, one thousand nun-
hundred Aud six, before me—(Signed) JAMESj FRASER,
J.P
Chronic Locomotor Ataxia Cured.
Doctors Failed.
had a numbed feeling at base of brain, and pain and
nbed feeling down the spine and in the legs, which
•eased at sundown. The pains were at one time con-
it for three months. During that period I scarcely
it at all. I tried one doctor after another, and
dually got worse the whole time, becoming more and
re helpless. I also tried the Prince Alfred Hospital:
rood. Finally, I lost all use of my legs, and fell in the
iet, and had to be carried home, and found that I had
power in the lower part of my body or legs. A medi-
man whom we sent for at this time pronounced it use-
to treat me, as I was quite incurable. Hearing, how-
r, of a case of Paralysis which Mr. Kugelmann had
ed at Goulburn, I decided to try his treatment, and it
k three men to carry me to his consulting room from
cab. I stuck to' his treatment, and after some
nths' steady treatment began to improve, and finally
quite cured, and have been perfectly well ever since,
ing regained complete use of mv once-useless legs ana
v 6 (Signed) JOHN THOMAS,
Mulgoa, Penrith, N.S. W„ October 7,1901.
igned before me —THOMAS DAVIS, J.P.
Chronic Athma.
Four Doctors Failed.
Wangaratta, Victoria, 4th April, 1899.
I hereby testify that I have been cured of Asthma and
Bronchitis by using Mr. U. E. Kugelmann’s Herbal Medi-
cines. I suffered for a period of eight years, and con-
sulted four doctors, each one of them pronouncing'me
incurable. The cure is effectual, as I have not been
troubled for seven years. I declare the above statement
to be true. npf (Mrs.) CLARA VONARX.
Dated before me, at Wangaratta, this 4th day of April,
1599. (Signed) A. PINKERTON, J.l-


Six Tears’ Hydatid Tumor Cured.
Doctors Failed.
Evidence of Miss A. E. Answerth, of Lai Lai Street,
Ballarat East, Victoria, sworn December, 1899 :
“ I remember being ill some years ago with an internal
complaint, from which I suffered great pain. 1 consulted
two eminent medical men at Ballarat, who said that I
was suffering from Hydatid Tumor on the liver and
stomach. I suffered pains in the chest and stomach as
the result of the Hydatids. They then performed an
operation on my chest, and drew off a pint and a half of
fluid, which they showed me. I had to undergo another
operation, some time later, when they did the same thing
—took more fluid away. I did not get any better on that
account, and they told me that I would have to undergo
another operation, which I declined. I got no better,
and suffered pain continually, owing to the unsuc-
cessful operations which had been performed. I then
had no faith in operations, and had nothing done
in the way of treatment for two years. By this time
the swelling in my stomach, owing to the growth of the
tumour, was very large. Then I consulted a doctor in
Melbourne, a well-known specialist in Collins-street, who
told me that I would have to undergo an operation, and
that there was nothing else for it, because Hydatids could
not be cured without operation, and as I did not believe
in operations I did nothing at all. The tumor increased,
and got worse every day, until the swelling was as large
as a good-sized basin. I then consulted Mr. Kugelmann
about five years ago in Ballarat. After he examined
me, he told* me exactly what the trouble was, namely,
Hydatids, and that he could completely cure me by
his herbal remedies. I continued his treatment for
about nine months, and then discontinued, as 1 did
not think I was getting any better. While under
his treatment the disease appeared to be checked, and
when I left off his medicine it got worse, so I went
again, and consulted him about the matter, and decided
to go on with his treatment. After continuing his treat-
ment for a number of months, during which I gradually
got better, the Hydatid tumor was dissolved, and its
contents carried away. At this time I was very bad,
owing to the dissolving of the tumor, but by the method
advised by Mr. Kugelmann all the morbid matter was
carried safely away. It is over 12 months since Mr.
Kugelmann ieft off treating me, and I have been per-
fectly free from Hydatids ever since. During the last
month I have been examined by a medical man in Syd-
ney, who said that I was in a good state of health. I had
been suffering for five years before 1 saw Mr. Kugelmann,
and I think it is high time sufferers knew of the method
by which they can be cured from Hydatids without being
operated upon.
As it is now over six years since this most remarkable
cure was effected, and over 31b. of Hydatid mass removed,
without operating, no greater demonstration of a perfect
cure could be wished for.
Seven Tears’ Chronic Cataract of Eyes
Cured.
Eyesight Restored After Doctors Had Failed;
No Operation.
Thomas J. Lamble, Esq., Professor of Music, residing- at
63 Oanterbury-road, Albert Park, Victoria, declared on
oath, 13th December 1899: —About seven years ago l found
that my eyesight was gradually leaving me. At last I could
not read the large print of the newspapers in the leading
articles. I consulted an optician, and had glasses made
specially. In six or eight months my eyesight got so bad
that my glasses were of no use. I consulted another
optician, and he tested my sight, and found that I had
cataract in both eyes, and that 1 would go totally blind,
first in one eye and then in the other; and this was also
the verdict of a third optician. I then consulted several
well-known doctors for the eyes, all skilled oculists. They
confirmed the opticians’ opinions as to the cataract, and
said that nothing could be done but to operate, and said
that if the operation was a success I would regain my
sight, but if not, I would be blind for life. After this, I
heard of Mr. Kugelmann. I consulted him, and he tested
my sight and examined the eyes, and he agreed as to the
cataract, but said he could effect a cure without operating,
and would do it by removing the cause which produced
it, and said that lie had found out what causes cataract
to form, and explained to me fully, and in a most logical
way, the cause and cure of the whole trouble. I began
his treatment, with the result that not only have I re-
gained my sight completely and permanently, and can
now read the smallest print without glasses, but my
general health improved wonderfully.
(Signed) T. J. LAMBLE.
12 Tears of Chronic Liver Diseases and
Organic Headache. Sciatica Cured.
Doctors Failed.
Statement of Mrs. JANE KNIGHT FOSTER, 8 Perth-
street, Prahran, Victoria, December, 1890.
Over ten years ago I consulted Mr. Krugelmann, having
been ill for a number of years with chronic liver disease.
When first I took bad I consulted several doctors, and
they all said I was suffering from disease of the liver and
indigestion. I also suffered terribly with my head, being
laid up regularly one day in every week with violent
headaches, so that I could not get up, and was perfectly
helpless and almost out of my mind. The doctors gave
me medicines, which never did me any good. On one
occasion I wished to have my life insured. I went to see
one of the doctors who had been treating me, and he said
I had better go to some doctor who did not know my
case as well as he, as he would not be able to pass me.
I then came to Mr. Kugelmann, having been recom-
mended by a friend whom Mr. Kugelmann had greatly
benefited. Mr. Kugelmann sounded me, and told me I
was suffering from chronic disease of the liver, compli-
cated with indigestion and a bad condition of the blood
and eczema. I adopted his treatment, with the result
that after a while it removed the impurities from the
blood, cured the eczema completely, and generally re-
stored me to health. lam sure I would have been dead
if it had not been for Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment. Since
that time I have had his treatment at various times for
other acute ailments, such as pleurisy—an attack of which
I had recently—and sciatica, of which his treatment has
thoroughly cured me.
s y (Signed) (Mrs.) JANE FOSTER.
Lung- Disease and Hydatids cured.
Doctors Failed.
Edmington, N.S.W., 21st. December, 1896.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir. —I am sending you this statement concerning
the cure of my wife. Four years ago she was taken ill
with pains in the right shoulder and in the back of the
left lung. We had to consult a doctor, and after diag-
nosing the case, he stated it was pleurisy. She began to
cough very badly. She continued his treatment for some
time without any material benefit; in fact, I may state
that on and off for about three years she was under
legally-qualified medical treatment. All this time, I may
mention, she was getting gradually worse. The cough
was most distressing, and hemorrhage frequent. 1 also
had about this time the advice of a doctor in Parramatta.
He considered there was consumption, and after treating
her for some time he ordered her.away inland. This 1
was unable to carry out through want of means. She
took large quantities of cod liver oil and emulsion, by the
doctor’s orders, and these and the other medicines she
took did not do her the slightest good whatever. We
were nearly at our wits’ end to know what to
do, when one of your books of sworn certificates
of ’ cases you had cured came to hand. 1 immedi-
ately wrote to you, describing her symptoms as nearly
as I could, and was very pleased to find by the reply you
sent that you felt absolutely confident that you could
effect a cure in her case. I had confidence inyour ability
from the letter and book we had, although we had never
seen you, and 1 at once sent to you for a supply of your
Herbal Treatment. After my wife had taken it for about
six weeks, to our great surprise the treatment brought
away a quantity of hydatids and hydatid cysts from off
the lungs, and, lo and behold ! the whole mystery was
explained at once. After this, of course, she began to
mend rapidly, and I then brought her to see you in
Sydney on one of your visits to the Grosvenor Hotel, and
obtained further treatment from you, since which she
has got on wonderfully well, and has been completely
cured. I think it is only fair to other sufferers and
humanity in general that cases like this should be uni-
versally known, so that other sufferers may know where
to obtain the same benefit, and an absolute cure of their
diseases I am, dear sir, yours very gratefully, (Signed)
W. T. FRANKS.
Ermington, Parramatta River, N.S.W.
Taken this 21st day of December, 1896, before me.
(Signed) JAMES SPURWAY, J.P.
Cure of Chronic Rheumatism.
66 Fitzgibbon-street, Parkville, Melbourne,
25th February, 1895.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure and a deep sense of my
duty to suffering' humanity that I send you this sworn
declaration respecting the cure you effected in the case
of mv wife, for, as it is now over seven years since you
cured her, I think we may safely assume it is to be a per-
manent cure. My wife had been suffered acutely for six
or seven years before seeing you from Chronic Rheu-
matism, Severe Headaches, and Enlargement of the Liver.
The head and left knee especially were badly effected,
which caused her to be confined to her bed for days at a
time. 1 had medical advice and treatment from several
legally qualified doctors from time to time, and
some of these relieved her a little, only to be followed by
a worse attack, in consequence of which she gradually
became worse as time went on—indeed, she was beginning
to despair of ever getting better, when we were advised
to see vou, and on consulting you you at once declared
your ability to cure her. We began your treatment, and
my wife gradually improved in every way, and, after a
few months of your treatment, she completely recovered,
and has remained well, as I have stated before, for the
last seven years. —Vours gratefully,
(Signed) ARCHIBALD SKURRIE.
I, the undersigned Archibald Skurrie, make this sworn
declaration of my own free will, and do declare the con-
tents to be true and correct. —A. SKURRIE.
Sworn before me, this 25th day of February, 1895.
W. T. PETERS, J.P., for the Central Bailiwick.
Nine Years’ Chronic Heart Disease and
Nasal Catarrh Cured. Doctors I ailed.
Tungamah, Victoria, 7/11/1900.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir,—You are at liberty to publish the following
facts concerning the remarkable cure of my case by you
some 16 rears ago, as I consider a thorough cure like
mine, which has stood the test of so many years, cannot
be too widely known. I bad been a great sufferer from a
number of ailments for a very long time indeed. I tried
a lot of medicines, and kept getting worse and worse.
I suffered distressingly from difficult breathing and palpi-
tation of the heart, and great pain at the back of the
head, and between the shoulders and across the stomach.
In fact, I was full of pains, from head to foot, and could
not retain any food on the stomach. 1 dreaded
the thought of sleep, as it never afforded me
any rest or relief. My liver was badly dis-
eased, and I suffered from an internal displacement,
and also from nasal catarrh and catarrh of the bronchial
tubes. 1 had consulted several doctors previously to
communicating with you in lbB6, but none of them did
me any good whatever. In fact, one of them told me
he could do nothing for me at all, as mine was too
complicated a case, and he recommended me to go to a
skilful Melbourne doctor, as my only chance was to
go under an operation. I declined this, as I thought !
would rather die than be operated on. In this sad condi-
tion I wrote to you in Melbourne, and in your reply you
accurately told me what my disease, etc., was, and that
you could cure me. 1, therefore, began your treatment,
and very soon began to improve. You told me it would
take some time to effect a complete cure, and so I
persevered with your Herbal remedies and your dietary
instructions, and finally became quite well again, and as
strong and hearty as ever in my life before —in fact,
a new creature, thanks to you skilful treatment, for
which, as the years roll on, I am ever increasingly
thankful. —Yours, gratefully,
(Signed) (Mrs.) HANNAH KREECK.
Declared this 7th day of November, 1900, before me.—
(Signed) J. M. WARD, J.P.
Eight Years’ chronic Goitre and Tumor
cured.
Doctors Failed.
Moyhu South, Victoria, 3/8/1900.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN.
Dear Sir,—l have often thought of sending you a testi-
monial setting out the facts of the wonderful cure you
made of my case about five years ago, and I think I have
waited quite long enough now to be sure of the permanent
nature of the cure. It is about twelve years ago that I
began to notice a tumor growing in my throat, which
began to give me a good deal of uneasiness, especially so,
as I soon afterwards found I had also another tumor or
growth internally. I had medical advice and treatment
in Wangaratta ; the doctor said 1 had Goitre and Internal
Tumor. The internal tumor or growth grew larger and
larger continually, until it became of an immense size.
My health gradually broke down completely, and my
appetite left me. I was in great pain day and
night, and could find no relief or cure for my
sufferings, and my heart became extremely weak,
and my sleep indifferent; in fact, I became a com-
plete wreck of my former self. The doctors wished
to operate on me, as they thought nothing else
could be done. However, I was recommended to con-
sult you on one of your visits at Wangaratta, when I
was most pleased to find that you were able to diagnose
my complaint most accurately, without my telling y T ou
what was the matter with me, and as you assured me
you could effect a complete cure without any operation,
I gladly began your treatment, and steadily continued it
for a number of months, and I am most thankful to be
able to state that the Goitre, which before your treat-
ment had become very large, gradually became smaller
each week, and the internal tumor also was, by your
wonderful treatment, gradually dissolved. My general
health vastly improved in every way, and by a patient
continuance of your treatment I finally became quite
well again, and the Goitre and Internal Tumor both
vanished. All this happened about five years ago, so I
think it is about time I let people know about it.
(Signed) (Mis.) MARY ELLEN SMITH.
Declared at Moyhb this third day of August, 1900, be-
fore me—(Signed) AND. BYRNE, J.P., Northern Baili-
wick, Victoria.
Ten Years’ Chronic Tumor cured.
Doctors Failed.
9, Union-street, South Melbourne, 27/l/’O5.
Twenty-seven years ago 1 was thrown out of a trap in
Colac into a culvert. I was picked up, and remained
unconscious for three hours. The doctor was sent for,
and said that two ribs were broken, and that he could
do nothing for me on account of my then condition.
1 was taken home, and was in bed for three months,
being attended by the same doctor during that time,
and got so far better that 1 was able to go about. I
then went to Melbourne, and consulted another doctor.
He examined me, and seemed puzzled to know what was
wrong. 1 was wry bad, with excruciating internal pains.
The doctor wanted to operate on several occasions, and
on one occasion he brought an instrument to stick right
through me ; but this I would not allow. He thought I
had Enlargement of the Liver, and treated me for same ;
but I derived no benefit from his treatment. Twelve
months or more after the accident I found a small lump
on my right side, and 1 pointed this out to the doctor.
He examined me well, and confirmed his previous state-
ment —namely, that it was Enlargement of the Liver.
The lump gradually grew larger and larger ; the doctor
gave me plasters, liniments, and medicines without num-
ber ; but still the lump continued steadily to increase in
size, and at regular intervals 1 got acute attacks of
great pain, and used to frequently faint right off. The
doctor ascribed these attacks, which lasted for some
time, to weakness. The lump grew’ until it was about
as largfe as a man’s head, and used to throb and pain
dreadfully. I continued under this' doctor’s treatment
for nine years ; but at last I grot so bad that I went to
the Homoeopathic Hospital. The doctors examined me,
and they also said it was Enlargement of the Liver.
The medicines given me while there did me no good
whatever. Then one day I received one of Mr. Kugel-
man’s pamphlets, and there and then decided to con-
sult him, which I did, and w'ithout any hesitation he
informed me that it was a Tumor, and that he could cure
me without operating. I began his treatment, and
steadily persevered with it as directed. At first I did not
notice much of a difference, either in the size of the
Tumor or the pains 1 experienced. Indeed, at times I
was very ill, and thought I would die; but about 19
months ago the Tumor was dissolved, and broke, just as
Mr. Kugelmann said it would, and it all came away from
me. Thanks to his skilful treatment, the Tumor has
entirely disappeared, the pain has left me altogether, and
I feel perfectly cured. 1 am deeply grateful to Mr.
Kugelmann for his kindness in restoring me again to
health, after so many long years of suffering, and 1 avail
nivself of every opportunity that occurs to tell otbei suf«
ferers of his wonderful skill.
(Signed) (Mrs.) M. PRESTON.
Declared before me at South Melbourne this 31st day of
January, 1905. (Signed) H. C. JONES, J.P.
Four Year’s Chronic Deafness.
Awful Head Aloises Cured.
I suffered from deafness for over four years. I could
not detect the ticking of the clock unless pressed close to
the ear, when a faint, blurred noise would he perceptible.
I suffered from a tremendous humming, beating, or burr-
ing noise in the ears. The noise would often get louder
and louder, like an engine puffing. This went on for over
four years, and at last 1 became “ stone” deaf. I got no
relief from any treatment or medicines. At this stage I
consulted Mr. Kugelmann on one of his visits to Brisbane,
lie put me under a course of treatment which completely
cured the awful head noises, and thoroughly restored my
hearing. I can ever since hear perfectly. Anyone wish-
ing to know more about this marvellous cure of my case,
please call on me.
(Signed) THOMAS SHANAHAN.
Latrobe-terraee, Paddington, Brisbane, Q.
Sworn befare me, at Brisbane, this sixth day of Novem-
ber, 1901.
(Signed) W. J. TROUTON, J.P., chemist, Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Sixteen Tears’ Asthma.
Remarkable Cure. Doctors Failed.
I suffered from Chronic Asthma 16 years. My lungs
were choked with phlegm and slime. I tried the usual
remedies without result. I then consulted the best
doctor in Horsham, and tried his treatment for a long
time. It never did me any good. I then consulted a
well-known doctor in Creswick. I stuck to his treatment
about a year. I gradually got worse the whole time. He
said my right lung was completely gone. 1 then con-
sulted Mr. Kugelmann, at the White Hart Hotel, Hors-
ham, and was surprised to find he knew the instant he
saw me that 1 hail Asthma. So I began his treatment at
once, and by it I have been completely cured. It is now
over four years ago, and I have remained quite well ever
(Signed) JOHN B. WHITE.
Wear, Boggabri, N.S. Wales (late Jung Jung, via Hor-
sham, Vic., 4th November, 1899.
Sworn this 4th dav of November, 1899, before me.
(Signed) JAMES CARROLL, J.P.
Note.—Present address, Gunnedah, N.S.W.
MR. H. E. KUGELMANN,
CONSULTING HERBAL PRACTITIONER,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; 199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY;
77-81 Queen Street, BRISBANE; and 16-18 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE,
CONDUCTS PERSONAL CONSULTATIONS AT HIS
VARIOUS LARGE ESTABLISHMENTS AS PER
Schedule of Consulting Dates
HEREUNDER:—
MELBOURNE —At Head Office, 14-16 Queen-street —
From Friday, 27th JULY, 1906, daily, until
"Wednesday, Bth AUGUST, 1906.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—At his Permanent Branch Offices, upstairs, first
floor, City Chambers, Nos. 16 and 18 Pirie-street, near King William street,
within 2 minutes of G.P.0., on left-hand side of Pirie-street, on the following
dates, viz.:—
From Saturday, 11th AUGUST, 1906, daily, until
Friday, 17th AUGUST, 1906.
WAN GAR ATT A, Vic.— At Royal Hotel, on—
Thursday, 23rd AUGUST, 1906 ... Hours from 9.30 a.m. until 8 p.m.
Friday, 24th AUGUST, 1906 ... Hours from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
BALLARAT, Vic.— At Craig’s Royal Hotel, on—
Wednesday, 29th AUGUST, 1906 ... Hours from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. sharp
And about every 16th week thereafter.
MARYBOROUGH, Vic.— At M‘lvor Hotel, on—
Thursday, 30th AUGUST, 1906 ... Hours from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. sharp
And about every 16th week thereafter.
BENDIGO, Vic.— At City Family Hotel, on—
Friday, 31st AUGUST, 1906 Hours from 9.30 a.m. until 8 p.m.
Saturday, Ist SEPTEMBER, 1906 ... Hours from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. sharp
And about every 16th week thereafter.
New South Wales.
GOULBURN, N.S.W.— At Mandelson’s Hotel, on—
Saturday, Bth SEPTEMBER, 1906 ... Hours from 9.30 a.m. until 8 p.m.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
gYDISTEY N.S.W. —At his Permanent Branch Offices, 199 Clarence-
street, between King and Market streets, first floor, upstairs, on the following
dates : .
From Monday, 10th SEPTEMBER, 1906, daily, until Friday,
14th SEPTEMBER, 1906 ... Hours from 9.30 a.m. until 5 p.m.
And on Saturday morning, 15th SEPTEMBER, 1906
Hours from 9 a.m. until 1 p.m. sharp.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
* ttmORF TV "W At Mr. Kugelmann’s Lismore Branch Offices, in
the New Firm’s Chambers, over Nesbitt McMaster’s Store, Moles worth-street,
from— , J ..
Thursday, Ist NOVEMBER, 1906, daily, until
Monday, sth NOVEMBER, 1906.
GRAFTON, N.S.W. (Clarence River).— At Commercial Hotel, from—
Wednesday* 7th*NOVEMBER, 1906, daily, until
Friday, 9th NOVEMBER, 1906.
Queensland.
TOOWOOMBA, Q. —At the Imperial Hotel (late Long’s), from
Thursday, 11th OCTOBER, 1906, daily, until
Tuesday morning, 16th OCTOBER, 1906, until 1 p.m. sharp.
RRTVRANE O —At his Permanent Branch Offices (top floor, King,
Cribband King’s *Buildings), 77-79-81 Queen-street, opposite Town Hall,
Brisbane, from—
Friday, 19th OCTOBER, 1906, daily, until
Friday, 26th OCTOBER, 1906.
£5OOO REWARD
SSSWS S”
h
WHAT HAS BEEN CURED.
Mr KUGELMANN has successfully Cured, amongst others, the following diseases:
'—Cancer, Blindness, Cataract of the Eye, Granulation of Eyes, Ulcers on Eyes, and
other Eye Diseases, Scrofula. Scurvy, Leprosy, Hip Disease, Disease of the Bones or
Caries, Eczema, Consumption of Lungs, Consumption of lhroat, Fistula A ? th “ a *
Bronchitis, Induration of Lungs, Aneurism, Valvular Heart Disease Angina
Pectoris Enlargement of Heart, and all other Heart Diseases of every form, Enlarged Liver, Enlarged
iT.Wr, fWestwl Liver, Ulcerated Liver, Hypertrophy of the Liver, Amemia, Hysteria, Epilepsy
/ r Fits! Cholera Dyspepsia (or Indigestion) in every form known. Palsy, Paralysis, Locomotor
Ataxia Spinal Complaint, Gravel, Diabetes, and all Kidney Diseases, Baldness, Mania, Impaired
Vision’and Memory. Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Fever, Sciatica, Varicose Veins, Ulcerated Sore
t Poiive Nasal Catarrh, Polypus, Post Nasal Growth, Jaundice, Chronic Constipation, Piles,
Gallstones, Chronic Affections of the Spleen. Chronic Headaches, Chronic Biliousness, Neuralgia,
Britrht’s Disease of the Kidneys, Granular Kidney, Patty Kidney, Displacement of Kidneys, or
Floating Kidneys Stone in Kidney, Stone in Bladder, Diureses, Dropsy, Enlargement of Joints,
Cvstitis g Gastric ’Catarrh. Ulceration of the Stomach or Bowels, Catarrh of Stomach, Catarrh of
Intestines and all other Internal Ulcerations, Chronic Gastritis, Tumors of the Stomach, Tumors of
the 1 iver Cancerous Tumors, all Abnormal Growths, Internal Troubles and Displacements (without
operation’s or wearing of instruments). Appendicitis, Rupture, Nervousness, Loss of Memory Loss of
Vieor and Vitality, Mercurial and Lead Poisoning, Sunstroke. Colic, 1 ape \Aorm and all other
Worms Chronic Diarrhoea, St. Vitus’ Dance, Chorea. Insomnia or Sleeplessness, Organic Headache,
Tetanus or Lockjaw, Deafness, Noises in the Head or Ears, and all Diseases of the Nose, Ear.,
Throat, Tonsils, Tuberculosis, etc. (Signed) HERMANN EMIL KUGELMANN,
Registered Office, 14 and 16 Queen-street, Melbourne, and at 199 Clarence-street, Sydney.


- Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. £lfi to £59
CAPETOWN and NATAL " 13s to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
*or Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSOLTD.,
. Agents, 7 Bent-stre> ', Svdney.
i 1 ? I ?v?n- URNB . Agents : JOUN SANDER:.ON &CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & OO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
SON.'LTD 8 , OGr0 G re N ek!s : trelt lLLS ’ GILOHI4IST & SANM *
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund „ 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,*50,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
- ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLIOAR,
Superintendent.
national flank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.245 6 0
Reserve(inGovt. 5t0ck,£43,435) .. 48,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New' Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout; Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East, j
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
flank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
nRACTQ on Australia, New Zea-
LF llrtr I 9 land, Fiji, Great Britain
[ other places.
The flank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J " £370,000
GRANTS
and Ireland; s
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London,
icident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.’
Jkssop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALCETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... <£4,000,000
Capital Paid up J£ 1.000,000.
Reserve Fund £ 165,000.
OCE AIN
The Premier A
Head Office —96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne. ’
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
tor Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool; Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain arid Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Sbipping.
KT. ID. Xj.
(N OR D-DK UTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
Gihri^ N t GKI i S b ,°OKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
'jloraltar, London, Antwern and Bremen r.vT p^r,o
ni-ourew .steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
NEW hivm/a EVe i' Kour Weeks > via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PBINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER.
Twin Screw Steamers.
< S .V" BUrpa rS. d Seatroins; Qualities Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
F ” -5S
9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Roiralßank or Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. ... .. .. £457533 10 0
Reserve Liability ok Shareholders .’. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(In vested in Government Stock) 60,000 0 0
~ , £699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA BT., LONDON, E.C.
17 Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•MARATHON
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
H. A. Sehleman ..
Noon, Aug. 21
Noon, Aug. 31
Noon, Sept. 25
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ~ From £E2 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ĥ
PLYMOUTH and LONDON 1 via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
SUE VIC, PERSIC, RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 H 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to SO 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
OCEAWIO S.S. 00. ,A_. &c A.. LIKTE (via, SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY i'AST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
dnn FARES T 0 ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
p', s ! ERF I A ,’„ 6200 tons, sails Monday, august 13.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter , send or appvy to —
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
. CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
WINTER
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ħ
HOLIDAYS
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Baron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
h
CAPITAL ... £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.-W.
Iflont depiete 0. Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 OOLLINB STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman: R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS-
Aug. 6, Sept. 3, Oct. 1.
GRAND EXCURSION.
<£6o Including all Expenses* £6O
Acrossrthe Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by the Canadian Pacific
Railway to Glacier, Field, Laggan,
and Bauff. The C.P.R. has splen-
did Hotels at each of these places,
where all Expenses are included
in the fare above quoted.
t3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
+
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG,
WOrtDErtFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard's Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North's Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Uaymarket
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
accumulated funds exceed £soo,ooo.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British oh guard!
GEO. IX. MOORE, Manager.
GHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
™ e South British
FIRE and AIARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STfAMSHipcK
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports, *
FOR MELBOURNE, ,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS.
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Yongala, August &
S.S. Grantala (from Mel-
bourne), August 15.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Innamincka, Augist 4.
S.S. Pilbarra, August 11,
lloute to Goldfields.
aloon Passage Tickets are interchanireable after tho
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be aiowtSnid
on application at the Company’s Office. ned
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
KWh’" rE ° f 6500 l 0 8 ’ 7,'.' der Postal Contract with the
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
Mel-
Ade-
laide,
1 p. tn
Com-
Sydney,
Steamer
bourne.
mander
Noon.
1 p.m
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT
YARRA
dumbea
Aug-. 13 Aug. 16 Aug. 18
Sept. 10 Sept. 13 Sept. 16
Oct. B,Oct. 11 Out. 13
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7s'
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENOLISI'
SPOKEN ON BOARD. U
UP?" arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
m IPT1 P T for Loridon an<l ? lv e them every assistance
in landing and passitig their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
I*or further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney. ’
R- BRASH.R DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
Banking, Public Companies. Ac.
2/ie Commercial lian/citiy Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund ...
Reserve Liability
£1,000.000 0 0
1,115,1)00 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,115,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
O. J. Oohbn, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
lion. H. E. Katbr, M.L.O Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jokes, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Mosbs, M.L.O.
Hon. F. T. llumpiikry, M.L.C.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S. Cai-e, Esq.
Head Office: Georgfe Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; VV. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
VY. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors ; F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
lion. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
Fire insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
■ ■
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Rates Very Low. PaSSag6 M ° ney ’ etc '
THOMAS .M.TINLEY, Manager.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Hotels. , ■
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wil find every ouuor and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconjfield Parads
81'. HILDA.
'JJME Largest and uest-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificcut situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower lhan’icensed hotels. Gitv, i-hour
bv tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family hotel of the highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con*
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. Tloderate Tariff.


It is seriously suggested that next Federal
elections may find an Anti-Rabbit party and a
Pre-Rabbit pa: cy added to the confusion which
is more than sufficient already.
Joe Cook, on the Federal Judiciary Bill
They should select the best men for the High Court,
-respective of all other considerations. There was one
man of outstanding ability, who, he was afraid, would
have little chance of appointment.
Now, who is that genius ? Is Cook regretting
that his alleged leader can’t be put into a stiddy
job, so as to give Cook the reversion of his old
political shoes ?
“P.” writes about a subject on which this
paper had received no previous information :—
The new chapel for the “ Distinguished Order of St.
Michael and St. George,” in St. Paul’s Cathedral, London,
contains possibilities for heart-burnings among the
G.C.M. Geese of the British Empire. Tliuswise: Every
“ Knight’’—there are over 100 of the G.C.M.G. variety
alone, and 300 of the K.C.M.G. species—is entitled to a
stall in the chapel, but as there is room for only 35 seats,
some 365 “ Knights ” must go unstalled until others pass
out and make room for them. It’s a case of waiting for
Dead Men’s Stalls. Australian Chief Justice Griffith will
have a stall over which his banner will hang—what
strange device marketh ye Solitary Knight’s banner ?—
but Bigiohn Forrest, who is 42nd on the list, may have
to wait long before his bit of calico droops ponderously
in the sacred edifice.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
, 'i
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE J/ 3 EACH.
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters /
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
I’ll Try It.'
The Only Sure Moustache Producer
No matter how many preparations you have tried —just
try another—try
‘ CAPILLARINE
—the only certain Moustache grower. Sold in Aus-
tralasia for more than 20 years. It never fails.
SEND 10/6 TO-DAY.
CAP/LLARINE ! m »»
The Remit.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDKTES Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignment, of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly effic: rat EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best ad wantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers tor iree storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
is
&
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27tR OCTOBER., 1906.
First Prize, value £.500.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63.
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Oowdery, Waterloo,
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1906. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE .. 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE .. . 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE.. .. .. .. .. 6,600
LANGTON GRANGE .. 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON CHANGE 6,300
RIPPJNGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10.000
THORPE GRANGE .. .. 6,300
H AVERSE AM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First. Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Ca >e Cuyo,
Aires 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
Euenos
Africa.
A PAINT with A GUARANTEE.
We guarantee in every-instance where our Elastic Carbon Paint is
used according to directions that it will last on any surface for a
period of Fiyc Years. Should not prove as represented we will
furnish free of charge all the paint which may be required to keep
the surface in good condition for the stated length of time.
“Arco” Elastic
Carbon Paint
Weatherproof, Fireproof. Dries with a Perfect
:: Lustre. EQUAL TO ANY ENAMEL :: ::
As its name implies—it’s ELASTIC. Unaffected by EXTREME
heat or cold .... Will not PEEL or BLISTER, always ready for
use, and will not taint or discolor rainwater.
Acknowledged by ALL Paint users as the BEST Wood and Metal
Preservative known.
Serviceable for Painting
Tanks, Roofs, Pipes, Sugar Refin-
eries, Mines, Smelters, Railway
Stations, Smoke Stacks, Farming
Implements, Cyanide Vats, or any-
thing requiring the application of
:: :: :: a first-class Paint :: :: ::
Manufactured in RED, GREEN, BLUE, BROWN, and BLACK. Write for
SAMPLES and further particulars.
Manufactured Only by
The Atlantic Refining Co.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
EQUITABLE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
W. D. MOORE and HARRIS. SCARFE & CO., Fremantle.
TASMANIAN WOOLGROWERS’ AGENCY CO., Launceston.
I. S. MUNRO, Zeehan.
ĥ
ħ
For TWENTY-TWO YEARS we have been
making Paint
And in all these years we have been making but
ONE grade of Paint—and that is “ ARCO ELASTIC
CARBON PAINT”
Now, what could you expect of a Company making but
ONE GRADE of Paint in TWENTY-TWO YEARS?
PERFECTION!!
And that's EXACTLY what our Paint represents*
Hence, if you have ANYTHING paintable, from a
ROOF down to a HENCOOP, use “ ARCO ELASTIC
CARBON PAINT*”
The very best Paint that ever went under the brush*
Guaranteed for FIVE YEARS!


“Maori Mac” thinks Jones has been
under-rated :—
Stop-gap Premier Jones, of Maoriland, displayed quite
a lot of firmness over the Tregear case. It has been the
rule to look upon Bill Jones as a weak-minded, physical
wreck of a man (as a matter of fact, he is tall and straight,
and looks as if he could do his eight hours with the
hammer and saw still) for so long that a little firmness
conies as a shock. The Employers’ Ass., with foam on its
whiskers, rushed Bill Jones and shrieked in weary
Bill’s ear, “You must sack Tregear, of the Labor Bureau,
or YVE’LL BE SERIOUSLY ANNOYED.” Bill looked at
the heaving mass and told the Employers’Association
not to be a bigger fool than it was already, and casually
mentioned that he was running the country and that the
fat party had better withdraw before he—plain Bill Jones
—THREW IT OUT. Now a crowd of very angry Fatmen
is denouncing the Tory press for saying' that Bill Jones
was weak and pliable, and is calling Jones “ a disreput-
able Socialist.”
Thomas Bent’s socialistic notions are
growing. Not content now with making locomo-
tives for Victoria at Newport State workshops,
ever so much cheaper than private enterprise
can build them, Tommy wants to manufacture for
the whole of Australia. “ I told the Chief Com-
missioner long ago,” Tommy said the other day,
“ that if he liked he could make engines for any
of the other States that wanted them. I believe
Maoriland uses American engines; but if they
like to come to us, we’ll make all the engines they
want.” The Newport State workshop has wiped
out all opposition in Victoria. Private enterprise
simply can’t understand how Newport does the
work, and it never could turn out such a well-
finished article as the State produces. And now
Tommy is challenging the world to come and
make engines against his State enterprise.
Bananaland’s ancient Marine Board is to
be jettisoned, and a reconstructed body is to take
its place. For long its effeteness has been mani-
fest. The only feature that denoted a living
influence was the sure and certain way the mem-
bers gathered up the fee of £1 Is. per sitting, [f
the ages of the Boarders were added together the
total would take one almost back to Chaos. They
were great enthusiasts for meetings. Occasion-
ally they would take a day down the Bay bent on
the Department’s business. Someone would sug-
gest a matter during the trip and they would call
a meeting. A witness would be dug out of some-
where and asked a question, and the meeting
would close. Tt has been alleged that the Queens-
land Marine Board at times held seven meetings
with seven separate fees in one day, but that is a
picturesque lie. And now the old institution has
to go. Kidston, the bitter economist, has said it.
Airy badinage in Vic. Assemby during the
discussion of the Licensing Bill:—
Mr. Oaunson : I am a more sober man than the hon.
member, who used to be found drunk in the gutter.
Mr. Prrnokroast: Nobody believes you. You would
be drunk oftener if anybody would trust you.
Special Inquiry Boards and Royal Com-
missions sit on all sorts of things in Victoria, but
nobody ever hears of anything they advise being
carried out. Although the Inquiry Board
that investigated the Gembrook railway smash
really blamed the Commissioners for the disaster,
Tait and his subordinate Commissioners refused
to take the blame. The driver was disrated for
six months, and made to work as a fireman for
that period. He was also heavily fined. He was
represented by counsel all through the big in-
quiry, and afterward through the Departmental
inquiry that Tait and Co. held to prove that the
big inquiry was wrong. This let the driver in
for a big bill of costs, and Tait and Co. aren’t
going to foot that bill. Neither is Thomas Bent.
The driver has to pay up himself. That is the
way Inquiry Boards are treated in Victoria. It
is also part of the way engine-drivers are treated.
\VfILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
▼▼ BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6 j with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SI/VJS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice made
In the matter of the Trusts of an Indenture of
Settlement dated the 7th day of August 1876 and
made between Silvain Eugene Trefond and others
and In the matter of the Estate of Sarah Franklin
deceased and In the matter of the Estate of
Elizabeth Jane Trefond deceased Trefond v.
Boustead 1900 T. No. 1118 and dated the 3rd
March 1902.
It was (inter alia) ordered that the following
Enquiries should be made namely.
An Enquiry who were the persons entitled by
virtue of or according to the statutes of distribu-
tion of Intestate estates or otherwise to the
estate of the above named Elizabeth Jane Trefond
living at the time of her death and whether any
of them are since dead and if so who are their
respective legal personal representatives.
An Enquiry who was the heir at law of the said
Elizabeth Jane Trefond at the time of her death
and whether such heir at law is living or dead and
if dead who by devise descent or otherwise is
entitled to such real estate (if any) of the said
Elizabeth Jane Trefond as descended to such heir
at law.
Now the persons claiming to be such next of kin
or the legal personal representatives of such of
the said next of kin as are now dead and heir at
law as aforesaid of the said Elizabeth Jane Trefond
late of 53 St. John’s Wood Terrace Regent’s
Park in the County of Middlesex (wife of the said
Silvain Eugene Trefond) who died on. or" about
the 20th day of October 1898 at Brighton in the
County of Sussex are by their Solicitors on or be-
fore the Ist day of November 1906 to come in and
prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice
Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce at the Royal
Courts of Justice Strand London England or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said order.
Thursday the Bth day of November 1906 at 12
of the clock at noon at Room 696 in the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 25t’n day of June, 1906.
RICHD. JOHN VILLIERS.
Master
WALTER ADAM BROWN,
27 Lincoln’s Inn Fields,
London, England,
Plaintiff’s Solicitor.
Note.—*The said Elizabeth Jane Trefond was a
daughter of Jaroes Naunton late of St. John’s
Wood, London.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’i
(Regd.) I
h
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
do.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
see THc labcl on THe seevtDQt.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT.
hi muni linn iim
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT I
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke Bt., Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
MARY THERESA AXTELL (formerly
Mary Theresa Smollett), the wife of
•JOSEPH AXTELL, formerly of Carters Towers,
carpenter, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned. If the said MARY THERESA
AXTELL be dead, Five Pounds will be given for
the Certificate of her death if presented before
the thirtieth dav of September, l!IO(i.
MARYLAND & MARS LAND,
Solicitors, Charters Towers.
OODROFFE (ROBERT), left Ilorncastle,
Lincolnshire, for New Zealand, in
October, 1876 ; last heard of at Dunedin, Otago,
1877 (or children, if dead). Inquirers, Executors
of Ann Seymour (aunt), c/o ANDREW and
THOMPSON, Solicitors, Lincoln, England.
B“ROW"NETT, WILLIAM HENRY,
Englishman, aged about 52, clerk. Last
heard of in 1901 in Sydney. Please write son,
H. R. BROWNETT,
G.P.0.. Pkhth, W.A.
Public Notice.
JO COMPANY PROMOTERS, SOLICITORS, FINANCIERS,
1 &c.— An unusual opportunity offers (or promotion of
Syndicate re “ Hydropathic Establishment ” in the most
healthy all-the-year-round climates in Southern Hemi-
sphere. “MEDICO,”
GORDON & GOTCH, LAUNCESTON, TAS.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne*
T.lephon* No. IOiS. E R E R.
Mr. Skinner has a very andj
selected PLANT OK TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete m the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bail 3
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Visitors to Melbourne £l™
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes walk
from G. P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Itai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Vietoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TAItIKP for Boarders, Os. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
HANDSOME AND STYLISH
WIRE NAME BROOCHES
CHEAPEST AND best
Note the Low Price,
only 2/6
Po«t Free to any address, with any Nome or any Three Initials*
A Present any Lady will be Delighted to Receive.
'T'HESK tasteful W re Name Brooches have become so ponu-
lar that our Wire Artist has imported from America ihe
very latest and best plant and mater ala. and can thus Produce
much more Styltsb and Substantial Brooches and Pins
then have h'therm he* n offered n Australia an?’ at greatly
reduced prices. GENUINE GOLD-FILLED WIRE is us*d
and the De igns are very graceful and attractive. 'lhe
Pr ces. you will notice, are about half the rates usually
charged. Fine Round Wre, only 2s. 6d.; Heavy Tw.st.ed
Wire, 4s. 6d. ; if mounted on P** ri Tablet, 2s. add tional ;
Heart or Bell Pendant, Is. 6d. additional ; Novel Initia Hat
Pin, 2s. «>d. The prices include postage. Money returned if
not satisfactory. Send Postal Not* Bof any State.
Please mention this paper when ordering.
The Union Mfg. A Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Rheumatism,
SEND Postal Note (7s. 6d.) for RHEUMATIC
RING. Will cure Rheumatism and insure
wearer against further attack.
RHEUMATIC RING CO.,
246 a George Street, Stone?.
u
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
Catalogues and full particulars from—
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
Oi Visitors To the Oud Country:
Gloucester Ffoaji, Sou.rl\Kervsmg'.orx. Loridor\, 5.W.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON \
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
zpyAi-
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
Do You Have Razor Trouble?
IF you have trouble with your razor—if you simply can’t ge°
*_ an easy shave—if your face is sore and tender from shaving
—just TRY THE PLUM RAZOR and your troubles will stop.
A FEW EXTRAS.
The Pldm Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIQ & AITKEN
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Amusements.
® AL tj MELBOURNE.
Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
AUGUST 9, 11, 14, and 16.
MDLLE. DOLORES,
Tho Great Prlma Donna.
BRISBANE-AUGUST 23 and 26.
MELBOURNE—SEPTEMBER 1.
65., 45., 2s.
QUEEN’S HAL L, SY D nTV.
EVERY EVENING,
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
And Their Great . . .
Thaumaturgic Picture Display.
. PRICES —3s., 25., Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee J. C. WILLIAiISON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’B
Interesting and Entertaining Naval Melodrama
WITH FLYING COLORS.
Written by Messrs. Seymour Kicks and Fred. G. Latham.
SATURDAY NEXT—IN LONDON TOWN.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
MARKET HIPPODROME, BYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY,
tar* PRICES—6d. and Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, BYDNEY.
■■ Under the Direction of J. O. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
MR. WILLIAM COLLIER and Company in THE
DICTATOR.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 4th.
TITTELL BRUNE, supported by an exceptional oast,
in
DOROTHY VERNON.
Box Plan at Paling’s. IW PRICES AS USUAL.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mu, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Success of VASCO, the Mad Musician.
ALEXANDRA and BERTIE.
Great Success of BRINN, Sensational Juggler and Cannon
Manipulator, in “ PASTIMES ON A BATTLESHIP.”
Enormous Success of LITTLE CLIFF.
Great Success of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, sup-
ported by Messrs. GEORGE BENTLEY and H. HALL, in
a new Sketch—“ THE LADY BURGLAR."
Comedy, “ PHOTOGRAPHED OR MARRIED.”
MAUD FANING, Miss OLIVE LENTON, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
THE IBSONS, Musical Entertainers.
PHILLIPS BROS., Vocal Duo.
RALEIGH and MAY, Slack Wire Juggling Act.
SEYMOUR and DUPRE, Comedy Artists.
TED KALMAN, End Man.
NELLIE KiLBURN, Soubrette Artiste.
OARLETON and.SUTTON, Knockabout Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is
ILIEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, Aug. 2, and FRIDAY, Aug. 3—Last Two
Performances, DANGEROUS WOMEN.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 4th,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in the Adelphi success—
HONOR THY FATHER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
*■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING—SEATING CAPACITY TAXED TO
THE UTMOST.
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including
MR. ROBERT WALDRON and MISS JANE HUMPHREY,
—in—
THE SQUAW MAN.
A Melo-Comedy Drama in Four Acts.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FROM THE LAND OF FUN.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 2,
FRIDAY, AUGUST 3,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 4,
THREE NIGHTS ONLY.
R. G. KNOWLES,
Prince of ilerriment.
Box Plan Allan’s, Menzies’, and Grand.
No. 4.
No. 4. NEW
Albert’s American Annual
CONTAINING—
-10 numbers of Latest Songs, Piano Pieces, Lancers and
Cakewalks. (£1 worth of the Best Music for 1/2)
I’M TRYING SO HARO.
BARNEY.
YOUR DAD CAVE HIS LIFE.
MY YOKOHAMA LADY.
UNDER THE ANHEUSER BUSH.
DOWN IN THE DEPTHB.
WOULD YOU CARE? Waltz.
SAILOR CAP, March.
HAPPY HITS, Lancers.
CEORCIA RACTIME, Waltz.
With full Words and Music, all bound together in
one volume, and with a beautiful cover. Will be
sent to any address in Australasia post free for 1/2.
ALBERT & S3N, King-st., Sydney.
Owners of the “ BOOMERANG ” Mouth Organ. Pub-
lishers of American Music, Wholesale and Retail
Distributors of Edison’s Phonographs and Records.
Catalogues of Music and Musical Instruments, Phon-
graphs and Records posted free for the asking.
“ BOOMERANG,” SONGSTER No. 4, containing 60
Songs (words), Complete Guide to HYPNOTISM,
Comical Recitations, Funny Sayings, etc. Price 7d.
the lot, post free.
Medical.
MEDICAL MAN living in the most healthy
loc'" y in the Commonwealth prepared to
receive rest Patient —Trained Nurse, etc.
SECRETARY,
SWANSEA, TASMANIA.


"In ono of the last of these international
epileptic fits... the English, with much dysentery
and Dad poetry, conquered the South African
goers, at a loss of £3000 per head.—H. G.
ffKUS.
“ Janor ”: The Commerce Act is good
sn d necessary legislation, but after all it is only
tinkering at the big hole into which so many
millions of Australia’s money drops. We wanted
the right tariff first to make the hole smaller. The
other day I was strolling along the wharves. I
saw a perspiring gang of lumpers dragging cow-
product (butter) on to a ship to send it at great
expense right across the world to a market where
it realises less than it does here. Passed on, and
found another perspiring gang of lumpers dragging
cow-product (condensed milk) off a ship, by which
it had been brought at great expense half across
the world. It made me so howling mad that I
nearly bought a Sydney Telegraph, but didn’t.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Oorner LITTLE COLLINS & ELIZABETH BTB.,
MELBOURNE.
A S it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
A to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Brice £3 16 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £6
3 llammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
best quality barrels; choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge to
kill at 100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price £0 8
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine
and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £6.
Sale Price £2 15
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price,
225. fid. Sale Price £0 13
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
0 0
0 0
Price
.. £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
w
x
ĥ
sv
.V
\ &
&
n;
>v
&
5 Ar
fv
£
<o
5/
Sr
SS
S?
vV
«
*
RThe,
LCOCK
MLE
THE
IVRCH
>E •
Billiard
Tables.
/ /
ħ
psnh
VV
Gives
Permanent
Polish,
Preserves and
Cleans the
Leather.
Sold by all Store-
keepers and Boot
and Shoe Shops.
Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, anti
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency ol Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to—
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
9*-LIVE ACENTS WANTED IN .VARIOUS STATES.
LEMON
WHISKY
An ideal beverage.
A drink that has long been wanted.
A scientifically prepared Stimulant.
For Temperate People, not Teetotalers.
A food. A medicine. A luxury.
Simple, Pure, Wholesome.
Recommended by High Medical Authorities.
It is Absolutely Pure.
It is welcomed everywhere.
The safest of all drinks.
Good for the Feeble or the Strong.
The best drink for Athletes.
Exhilarating and sustaining.
A fascinating luxury with
Important Medicinal qualities.
Sold at all Up-to-date Hotels
Throughout the Commonwealth.
II
.ft®
mim.
William fiEMiNO# equitable b?«,ceorcest.sydtiev.
cjlicjw (2) JSatutmuu vatu
skt/tfifud v-imtafflut feriuf
fuwe combfu/tu u/u to uawt'
iritnudt tor-economy 'yjatu ■
factum.. sn/ 1
mfumtt %cw „
FUSSELL’S
FULL CREAM
CONDENSED
MILK
IS THE
CREAM OF MILKS i
BURNS, PHILP & GOLTD., Solb Agbnts. I
o ex
mm
m
FACTS ABOUT THE
EUCRASY Treatment
THE CELEBRATED CURE FOR THE
unooK
TOBACCO andtHe
DRUC HABIT.
If you are addicted to Drinking, Smoking, or the use of Drugs, in any form,
and you now suffer the consequences, you must not delay in availing
yourself of the EUCRASY TREATMENT for the following reasonsl
Because
The Eucrasy Cure has
been successfully used
for over 30 years
throughout the world,
and 10 years in Aus-
tralia.
Because
About one million
patients have already
been cured, over 10
thousand of whom
were in Australia.
Because
Several thousands of
Australian Testimonials
are on file in our offices.
Many are from Clergy-
men' and prominent
public men.
Because
Physicians, Clergy-
men, Politicians, the
Press and Business
men of high standing
endorse the Eucrasy
Treatment.
Because
The Cure is positive
and permanent. It is
agreeable to take, no
injections or painful
operations of any
kind.
Because
Each patient treats
himself, at his own
home without incon-
venience or loss to his
daily vocation.
Because
People addicted to
drinking, without re-
alising their own
follies, can be cured
secretly, even against
their will, and without
their knowledge.
Because
Our specially prepared
remedy, in powder
form, is tasteless and
odorless, and can be
administered in food
without the patient’s
knowledge.
Because
The effect of the
treatment on the
nerves is marvellous.
The Encrasy is a life-
saver. There are no
bad after-effects.
Because
The craving for alco-
hol is entirely stopped
in a few days, and a
permanent cure is ef-
fected in from one to
two weeks.
All cases are treated
Confidentially and with
absolute privacy.
Letters and packages
are forwarded in plain
envelopes, sealed from
observation.
For further informa-
tion, call or address
the
EUCRASY COY.,
62 Hun:er=st., Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, Mgr.
HOW TO GROW TALL
A Startling Discovery that will Revoln-
lutionlse the Physical Condition
of Mankind.
Why remain Short and Stunted
when you may Learn Free the
Secret of How to Grow Tall ?
No natter How Short Yon Are or What
Your Age, You Can Increase
Your Height.
No new discovery has attracted more attention
in the scientific world than that made by K. Leo
Minges, of Brighton, N.Y. Mr, Mihges is to
short men and women what the great wizard,
Edison, is to electricity. He has gathered more
information relative to bone, muscle and sinew
than any one else in existence. Making people
grow tall has been a hobby with Mr. Minges for
years, and the results he has accomplished are
startling to a high degree. By his method every
man or woman not over 50 years of age can be
made to grow from two to five inches in height,
and any one older than that may increase his
height perceptibly. His method has the endorse-
ment of leading physicians, and several prominent
educational institutions have adopted it for the
better physical development of their pupils.
If you would like to increase your height you
should read the book which tells how this re-
markable discovery was made and reveals to you
the secrets how to grow tall. It is free. You are not
asked to spend a single cent, and if you desire it
we will send you the statements of hundreds wbo
have grown from two to five inches in height by
following this method. The results are quickly
accomplished. Many have grown as much as
three inches in two months. There is no incon-
venience, no drugs or medicines, no operation.
Merely the application of a scientific principle m
a perfectly hygienic and harmless way. Your
most intimate friends need pot know what you
are doing. All communications will be sent m
plain envelopes. The book, “How to Grow
Tall,” contains illustrations that will interest and
instruct anyone. One thousand of these books
will be given away absolutely free, postage pre-
paid, while the present edition lasts. If you want
to grow tall, write to-day, in strictest confidence,
for a free copy. Address TThe Cartilage Co.,
l)ept. 52E., Brighton, N. i ., U.ti.A.
R.U.DEAF?
The “EAROSCOPE” home treatment
for deafness and all aural complications is
the greatest dicovery in medical science.
Thousands have been cured, why not you ?
No Drugs, and no electricity but the simple
cure of nature, endorsed by the most em-
inent physicians. Full particulars FREE.
CALL OR WRITE
The “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt-st. Sydney.
RHEUMATISM.
gout
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly Cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/14 and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
h
ĥ
UMda
ulferers from Deafness or He*,.. Arises
desiring a complete and permanent 6ure
should write to '»he L. It. VERNON (O.
• 0 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.


A GRAMOPHONIC MESSAGE!
U Does time ever hang heavily on your hands?
2* Are you at a loss for something to amuse and interest
you?
3* Are there times when your social evenings seem to
drag as if there were something necessary to
liven up your guests?
4. Would you like the opportunity of hearing all the
greatest singers, hands, operas and operettas?
5* Are you fond of good wholesome music, good senti-
mental songs and good comic songs of the day ?
6. Have you a desire that your children should improve
their musical education by hearing the world's
best vocal and instrumental artists?
If you can answer YES to any single one or to all of the above
questions, we talce pleasure in prescribing for you the following :
it'
Ifr fVT- r'».
'<--A ; ; : Mh; t j
vj*. r ,
\ - -
rU.jA ■
j j W. ,! >
£
m
m- jm
r n%
&
m
"
r*
nj>.
\Vs\ .
V*!
< •
r
■Maia-tJ"'
V :-
*. .
.7*3
:
oawpa^w**
♦
. •
__
ONE GRAMOPHONE
WITH
GRAMOPHONE RECORDS
IN LIBERAL
QUANTITIES.
This Trade Mark appears on
every Gramophone and
Gramophone Record.
TAKE NO OTHER.
TRADE
MARK
WE GUARANTEE IMMEDIATE RELIEF.
Full Particulars from THE GRAMOPHONE AGENT IN YOUR DISTRICT,
or upon application to ♦ . ♦ ♦
E>>e GRAMOPHONE CO., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
ħ
ACID AILMENTS ERADICATED.
h
THE BRITISH
MEDICAL JOURNAL
SAYS :
“It is gentle, efferves-
cent, and is a very
efficient and agreeable
aperient.”
THe Real Value
of Elimination.
If you are suffering from physical ills, ask yourself if
it is not your own fault. Nearly all of us at times eat
and drink more than-is necessary, and a corrective then
becomes indispensable. Sometimes we take too little
exercise, and dwell on the worries and small-annoyances
of life. This sort of living upsets the digestive organs and
starts a train of ailments, all of which conduce to make
life miserable. Our advice to the ailing is to get good
health, to be cheerful, calm, and contented. To do this
you must get rid of the surplus uric acid, you must
neutralise the acidity of the stomach—you must flush the
kidneys and clear the bowels. This is the secret of
happiness, and it can only be perfectly accomplished by
means of a health-draught of Kutnow’s Powder.
An Important Letter on
Uric Acid.
“ Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels
and kidneys. A dessertspoonful in a tumbler of water taken
immediately on rising in the morning cleanses the bowels, acts
as a diluent, and flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory
way. Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no better
eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children and Hygjene,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and College of Physicians & Surgeons).
Extract from the
Medical Journal.
“Regardless of diet, rich and poor suffer alike from
tlie accumulation of uric acid, which sometimes occurs with-
out any apparent failure in health; but more often are
the kidneys and bladder affected, and the digestive
organs impaired~; _ herice'excessive uric acid is frequently
responsible for heartburn, flatulence, and liver trouble.
Lithia has been tried and found useless, for when taken
by the mouth it chemically combines with the phosphates
in its progress through the stomach and there forms
insoluble compounds. The best remedy we know possess-
ing a solvent action and eliminative properties is Kutnow’s
Powder, which is largely used by the Medical Profession,
and has always given the highest satisfaction wherever it
has been tried.”— October, 1904.
How to Detect Fraudulent Imitations.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently cause
irreparable injury. The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is
strongly recommended by all leading phj sicians for the stomach, liver,
kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which you can
obtain at all conscientious chemists throughout the world. Examine
the package (shown in the reduced illustration) and see that it bears
the fac-simile signature “ S. Kutnow and Co., Ed.,” and the registered
trade mark, “Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap.” You will then
avoid imitations, and know
How to secure Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNGW’S POWDER ELIMINATES URIC ACID
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW (St, CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
—‘ — - ■ re—i2j.


Would Scratch and Tear the Flesh
Unless Hands Were Tied—Wasted
to a Skeleton—Grew Worse Under
Doctors—Skin Now Clear,
WOULD HAVE DIED
BUT FOR CUTICURA
“My little son, when about a year
and a half old, began to have sores
come out on his face. I had a phy-
7P71
sician treat him,
but the sores grew
worse. Then they
began to come on
his arms, then on
other parts of his
body, and then one
came on his chest,
'worse than the
others. Then I call-
ed another physi-
cian. Still he grew worse. At the end
of about a year and a half of suffering
he grew so bad I had to tie his hands
in cloths at night to keep him from
scratching the sores and tearing the flesh.
“lie got to be a mere skeleton, and
was hardly able to walk. My Aunt
advised me to try Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. So great was her faith in
them that she gave me a small piece of
Soap to try and a little of the Oint-
ment. I took it home without any
faith, but to please her I tried it, and
it seemed to dry up the sores a little.
“I sent to the drug store and got a
cake of the Soap and a box of the
Ointment and followed the directions,
and at the end of about two months
the sores were all well. He has
never had any sores of any kind since.
“He is now strong and healthy,
and I can say that only for the
Cuticura Remedies my precious child
would have died from those terrible
sores. I used only one cake of Soap
and about three boxes of Ointment.
Mrs. Egbert Sheldon, Woodville, Conn.,
April 22, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, X. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, TJ. S. A.
US-Mailed Free, “ All About the Skin, Scalp and Hair.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
A FREE GIFT SALE
1
1
as?
7/6
For one month,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
5.000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes, l.ij in-
ches long, 7/6
Post Free.
GIVEN
AWAY.
Post Free - one Feather
Pom Pom Riven Free to everyone ordering
this month- Catalogue Free. Write
to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
UL-'-lSli
mmm
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing-.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Every hung.
Australian User? now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VABLEY BEOS.,
312-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you liave System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Solk Australian Agknt
Clean White
Teeth
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
It is made for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel.' That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local (. '.lemists and Stores.
Mada by F. C. CALYEhT & Co., Manchester,
England.
95,000
“T:?£ WAYBACK SERIES
t!3 3, RSD HARRY, 1/-
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
indigestion
Ancemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
All of these complaints are caused by the presence in the body of urinary and biliary pojsons, due
to ineffective action of the kidneys and liver. A realisation of the work performed by these vital
organs enables us to understand why, when they fail, we necessarily sutler.
THE KIDNEYS.
By a process akin to filtering, the kidneys remove the excess of water from the blood in the form
of urine. The kidneys of the average man filter and extract about three pints of urine every cla y- in
this quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grams in weight of uric acid
and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly < an c,unce Now "
these are solid matter, which, when the kidneys are working healthily, is dissolved in unne and leaves
the body in complete solution. When the kidneys fail, a proportion of the solid n -er
the blood, and. becoming actively poisonous, produces the various disorders due t .f ’
such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Backache, feciat ca. Gravel, Stone and Bladder
Troubles. Sick Headache and Anaemia are also generally attributable to the same cause.
THE LIVER.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is closely related. It is almost impossible f°rthe
kidneys to be affected and for the liver to remain healthy, and vice versa. In the liver various
substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made from the
blood daily. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stoics it up so
as to be able to supply it again to the blood as the latter requires enrichment. Ihe liver changes uric
acid? which is insoluaW into urea, which is completely soluble, and the
blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When th ® li y®T “
diseased, the blood becomes laden with biliary and urinary poisons to such an extent that it is not in
a condition to take up nutriment from the food we eat, red corpuscles are no longer formed, and it is
these red corpuscles which nourish the nerves. In other words the blood is vitiated and starved, and
we are bound to suffer in consequence. Indigestion, Biliousness, Neuralgia, Anaemia, Sick
Headache, and Blood Disorders are but Nature’s signs that the liver is not doing its duty.
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research, directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warners
Safe Cure At the outset of the investigation it was realised that it was necessary to find a curative
agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these two organa beingso
intimately associated in removing the waste products of the body. Warner s Safe Cure possesses the
desired property in its fullest degree. It acts beneficially alike upon the kidneys and the liver
restoring them to their original activity, and enabling them to rid the body, by natural means, of all
urinary and biliary poisons. This is the reason why there is no necessity for anyone to suffer from
Rheumatism, Gout, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica, Persistent Beadsche, Neuralgia,
Gravel Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Indigestion, or Torpid Liver,
provided Warner’s Safe Cure is taken as directed. Even Bright’s Disease yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A Simple Test to make is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a
covered glass, and let it stand until the next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a brick-dust hire
sediment, if particles float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are unhealthy, and
no time must be lost in taking Warner’s Safe Cure, or Bright’s D. sease, Diabetes, or some less
serious but more painful manifestation of their inactivity will result. lAJ
f
• //•
The Inky Way.
W. D. 0. Denovan, dead at the age of 76, Bendigo
pioneer and early goldfields’ journalist, was born in Scot-
land and reached Bendigo in 1852. He took a leading
part in the 1 ‘ Ribbon agitation ” against the heavy digging
license 'fees; and later in the Chinese restriction move-
ment. When the Ballarat trouble broke out in 1854
Henry Holyoake, brother of George Jacob, was sent up
to rouse the Bendigo miners, and Denovan led a delega-
tion from them as far as Creswick, where he learnt the
upshot of the Eureka fizzle and turned back. Having
acted as Bendigo correspondent of he Ballarat Times,
he was brought down to take charge of the paper
when its fiery editor, little Seekamp (he whom
Lola Montes once horsewhipped) was arrested for his
seditious articles, published prior to the riot. Seekamp
having been convicted and released on his own recog-
nisances, Denovan left the Times and started the Ballarat
Nation, which failed to fill a long-felt want. Its pro-
prietor subsequently joined the staff of the Ballarat Star.
Back in Bendigo again in 1861, he was returned to Parlia-
ment for the Sandhurst Boroughs, but the expense
attached to the position of M.L.A. caused him to resign.
For several years after that he edited the Bendigo Even-
-INO News. Then he put in a spell of 13 years as town
clerk of the Bed Dust City, and Juished up a varied
career on the local stock exchange.
* * » •
From a sordid cash view-point the Maori Record,
started a year ago to uplift the natives, tone up their
morals and all that sort of thing, has been disappointing.
However, the last issue says the paper will continue to
publish, although the editor and the rest of the staff, in-
cluding the office boy, are going without wages. It then
adds that the whole staff consists of the editor, who is
also the office boy.
• . * * ■ ■ ,V * , . t
Adelaide Critic has passed from the hands of ex-Minis-
ter Josh. Vardon into those of Conrad Constantine Eitel,
who succeeded C. J. Dennis (now of the Gadfly) as editor.
Eitel was formerly a reporter on the Advertiser, and
still does Hansard work for that paper.
• • * *
Adelaide Gadfly asserts that its destinies are con-
trolled by an Anglican, a Roman Catholic, a Methodist
and an Athust, and of these the Atheist is the most
religious. * *
Adelaide Register and Advertiser, which differ in
i politics, but slavishly imitate each- other in everything
else, have an agreement to the effect that, before making
any new departure, the one mqst give the other notice of
its intention. Recently both the weekly adjuncts of
these dailies—the Observer and Chronicle—were running
I hen notes. The Observer (of the Register office) came
to the conclusion, after a tremendous amount of thought,
that its remarks on the rooster and his habits would
go better in jthe Journal (of the Register office),
and found that before the feathers could be shifted, the
Advertiser, the Express, and the Chronicle (which are
all one and the same Langdon Bony thon) would have to
be given 30 days’ notice, to decide whether they would
chase the rooster and the hen from the columns of the
Chronicle to those of the Express.
♦ * * »
There is a ; journal published in the Land of the Canned
Man called Talent, the Monthly Magazine of tub Lyceum.
The meaning of this unassuming title is merely that it is
the organ of lecturers, reciters, and preachers. From the
advertisements it appears that, although the average
mummer is not conspicuous for hiding his light under a
pot, the preacher can give him- points and a licking.
This is how some of these gifted beings designate them-
selves: “Rev. A. A. Willits, D.D., LL.D., The Apostle of
Sunshine”; “Frank W. Gunsaulus, World’s Greatest
Preacher Rev. Sam. P. Jones, The Greatest Evan-
gelist ” ; “ Dr. Taffy, The Taffy Man ”; “ Charles D. Kel-
fogo- The Bird Man ” ; and “ Colonel George W. Bain,
Silver-tongued Orator.” From this last it is cheering to
learn that Amurrica is not yet denuded of silver-tongued
colonels. Another parson, S. H. Donahoe, “ Delivers the
goods to churches, chautauquas, and lecture courses.” But
the cock-o’-the-walk is a Dr. Grant. He modestly confesses
himself “a preacher, an orator, and a magnet”; “his
style is one of easy grace, with constantly changing
poses”; “ his voice ranges from the soft tinkle of silver
bells to’the terrified tones of Dantes Inferno ” ; and “ he
has a peculiar grey eye that looks directly at you, a little
beyond and almost through you—yet, withal, its pene-
trating power tells of a kind heart, intensity of feeling,
and honesty.” It is not to be wondered at that “he
always preaches to packed churches.” After all, preach-
ing being as much a business as shoemaking, although
not showing the same tangible results, this is all very
right and proper and dignified.
* « * *
“ The Gravedigger ” : I can sympathise with “ Kappa ”
(8., 28/6/’O6), having also been in Cow City. It was
my misfortune to occupy the position of editor—beg par-
don, reporter ; the proprietor called himself editor, but
his editorial duties consisted of setting type and mani-
pulating the scissors on the rival news-sheet of the Queen
Cow City of the Northern Rivers. I arrived at the shed,
which did duty as the newspaper office, at 9 a.m. on a
certain Monday—had never been in the district before,
and was a recent arrival from Canada—and was at once
requested to write a leader on the sanitary arrangements
of the town, and “ just jot down a few pars about So-and-
So,” etc. Having accomplished the task more or less
satisfactorily, I was then sent on the “ rounds.” Stock
agents and produce merchants had to be interviewed;
then the “ dazzling halls of Justice” were visited, and a
note taken of the drunks and what became of them.
Proof-reading and other duties occupied my time until
6.30 p.m. Then I attended the council meeting at 7.30
four column report, as the boss was Mayor of the town,
and his eloquence had to appear verbatim. Altogether
the fortnight I spent in Cow City was an exciting time,
and I took mv departure southwards a sadder and inkier
man. Down the street it was customary for the heaven-
born boss of a proprietor to hold forth on the merits of
‘Mv leader.” although/,lt was well known that he could
not write two sentences in intelligible English. The re-
muneration I received was £2 per week, and to secure
this it was necessary to follow the boss round town
on the Saturday, when, if I was lucky, I got the
salary in instalments; and if unlucky I didn’t get it.
But there is a champion mean newspaper-man m Maori-
land who offered me 40s. weekly to take sole charge of
his daily paper. The duties he described as light, but
thev included being sole reporter, editor, proof-reader,
bookkeeper, and manager. The boss was a member of
Parliament, and consequently away in Wellington for a
considerable period of each year. I declined the offer
v ith a (ertP.’n amour.t of firn ness.
THE BARDS WHO BITE YOUR LUG
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I love to hear my country’s moods
Translated into living song,
And walk with awe where multitudes
Of sweet Australian bingers throng.
But late suspicion comes to me —
Not cannibal nor prowling Thug
Is half so dangerous as he,
The bard who bites your lug !
He comes in many shapes, his guise
Ascetic is or amorous ;
His mood is sometimes old and wise,
And sometimes young and frivolous.
If you’re a reverent denizen,
A simple, mute, admiring mug,
You feel a thrill ecstatic when
The poet bites your lug.
How oft the suave, beguiling voice
Has praised “ that little thing ” of mine !
How sweet the cadences : “ How choice —
How musical that second line ! ”
But well I. knew the tones of guile
Were but the operator’s drug
To liall the sense to stupor while
The poet bit my lug.
Ear-marked are half Australia’s sons
With teeth of poets blithe or dree,
And wise is he who reads and runs
To dodge the child of poesy.
“ Beware this animal, it bites ! ”
Should be upon the forehead dug
Of that fine soul who rhymes and writes,
The bard who bites your lug.
VIC.
EDYSON.


A Life Problem
Hurry, keen concentration,
Hard, nervous Brain work,
Either in Woman or Man,
Does no harm — or
Does Terrible Injury.
It all depends on FOOD
and the mental condition.
If you find yourself growing weak, or that
stomach or any other trouble is setting in,
it’s a sure sign you are using up more gray matter
than the food replaces.
How correct it ?
Change your diet! Quit coffee entirely.
Breakfast on a little Fruit,
A dish of GRAPE-NUTS and Cream,
A Soft-boiled Egg, Toast, and
A Cup of POSTUM.
There you are, nourished and happy until
lunoh time, and sure you have the food that the
life, forces use to fully rebuild the waste in gray
matter in nerves and brain.
“ There’s a Reason.” Prove it, YOU.
Grape-Nuts.
THIS IS A SNAP?
DELAY sending- for one of these excellent
Watches, in. Gun Metal or Nickel Silver Cases.
Every Watch Guaranteed First-class Timekeepers.
Two years’
with every
For a pood,
Timekeepei
cannot
12/6 •
/
4?
>
vr-
Guarantee
Watch.
serviceable
this Watch
be beaten.
Sent Post Paid to any address in Australia on receipt
i of 12/6.
THE UTILITY SUPPLY CO-
-36 Post Offloe Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VY.
The World's Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all cne World
For over 50 Years
GDtainable '
from all Tobacconists.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any ■ part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U SA.
ĥ
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name (V
ħ
You Are Tired
Of being drugged and dosed and have goae the
rounds of so-called Specialists, humbugs and
quacks and had your ailment aggravated, consult
the Physicians and Surgeons of
™ Dr. Langston Institute.
We Cure and Cure to Stay Cured all
NERVE, BLOOD & SKIN DISEASES.
The success of our Electro-Medical Treatment is
vouched for by thousands of grateful testi-
monials. The following speaks for itself: —
Dear Doctor, — " Mortal,” Goroke.
I wish to let you know that since taking
your treatment I am an entirely different
man. Previously I was one of the most
miserable men living. Now work seems no
trouble to me at all, and my sleep healthy
and refreshing. I hope that you may live
long to do your good work.
Sincerely yours, C. J. FLACK.
FREE FOR THE ASKING.
Our Latest Medical Work, MENS SANA IN
OORPORE .SANO— a Comprehensive Treatise on
All Diseases. 128 Papes ( Illustrated ). Written to
be understood. Points out the way to a Perman-
ent Cure. It tells what you want to know and
what you ouirht to know. POSTED FREE to all
sufferers. WRITE TO-DAY. •
THE DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE.
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Purr. Fkks Moderate.
When writing mention this paper.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
h
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy ior Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill health
known as “run-down " rr “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest' remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness
Holloway's Ointment aflords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
v &J- ■ .O’
t# v .*
❖
&
#•
ĥ
WILL ANDRADE »DOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with overso
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hardcovers, im-
proved. Donklly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s!
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting’
and Papering, 1/3. Georgette, Is; post, Is 3d
The Cuckold, Is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all de-
grees, Is. Cycle Building and Repairing
new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d. De!
cameron of Boccaccio, Heitameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is Sd. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is.
NOVELTIES
7/*
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
Picture Frame Making,
Is 3d. Poultry Keeping,
Is. Dream Book, Is.
Every Man fits Own
Builder, Is and U 3d.
Confessions of a Mel-
bourne Barmaid, illus., Ls
3d. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, illus., ls 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring
Entertainment, Is 3d.
How to Bet and Gamble,
Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields,
Factories ' and Work-
shops, is 3d. God and
My Neighbor, 9d, p. ls.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Rea! Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
f.L NCARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is; posted 1/3.
Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with
Cards, 18. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d!
Midwives’ Handhook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, Is3d. New Thicks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer
Is. Photography, Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d’
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, Ifts post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, lg. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Or.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOR YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any Stan will do.
Free Catalogues.
508 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE.
MELBA ACCORDEONS
ħ
Produce the
most .
delightful
mutie.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3. or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street. Melbourne.
OUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee la given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
*
r . 9
No. I—Gunruetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunnietal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4- lOs.
No. 3—Gunnietal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing' Watches made.
Bent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
BalsamAniseed'
COUGHS
k For/ COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
> Safe for Children.
TRADE£
MARK
anise&°
Chemists & Stores. Be sure
get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
o® R* CORO'S
t ssEW cE of ~ F e-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Slaves
TO
DRINK
TOBACCO and DRUG HABIT,
Permanently cured at their own homes with
“ ANALEPTIC*’ Treatment, Endorsed by the Pro-
fession, Clergy and all Temperance Societies. Can
be given secretly if necessary. Full particulars
absolutely FREE and confidential in plain, sealed
envelopes. Call or write at once.
The “ANALEPTIC” CO.,
po Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Cohen, with the blaze of prophecy in his
eye, has told S.A. Assembly that, after the next
general election, there will be very little Labor
party left. But probably events will show Cohen
to be a worse prophet than legislator, if such a
a j 1 1? - 18 P oBB^l ®- Cohen was top of the poll in
Adelaide (which returns four members) in 1902.
Jn 1905 he had crawled down to third place. In
1908 he will probably crawl right off the list.
British flunkeyism got a congenial opportunity
to exhibit itself when Lady Mary Hamilton was
married to the Marquis of Graham last month.
The crowd outside the church had read about
Lady Mary in a thousand grovelsome newspaper
paragraphs. As the only child of the late Duke
of Hamilton she inherited the Island of Arran
and any amount of other property, and her mar-
riage with the noble heir to the duchy of Mont-
rose represents a lovely union of Scottish family
possessions. So the admiring populace mobbed
dear Lady Mary’s carriage, “but the bride re-
mained perfectly self-possessed throughout, say-
mg ‘They don’t mean any harm,’” whereat the
joyful leaders of the demonstration shouted
“ Three cheers for Lady Mary!” and the crowd
cheered accordingly. They were enthusing over
the thought that here was a young woman who
actually owned all the earth of an island which has
an area of IGS SQL ~e miles. The ground is very
rocky, as a rule, ’t doesn’t yield nearly as
much rental value as the British “democracy”
could wish for the young landlady, but such as it
is it all belongs to Lady Mary. Hence those
cheers.


Dyspepsia
and all Affections of the
Stomach, the Liver
and Kidneys,
HEADACHES
and Nervous Weakness,
■which usually comes
from Stomach Ills,
* * * *
INSOMNIA
and Palpitation of the
Heart,
CONSTIPATION
ARE ALL QUICKLY
CURED BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
Nothing keeps a man or a woman
down like indigestion or Liver
trouble, and nothing lifts them up
so quickly and surely as a course
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup. ->
WILL iURE YOU.
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to make, a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
1
4ar
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL I
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making 1 hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 58 ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6; Postage 9d extra,
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
Pure Grape EY.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKINC MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking’ Machine
reproduces Song’s, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present. £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
1111111 l
P®
£lOO
a. WeeK
Givers
Away
Free
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Od. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted. _
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Cd. History of the Rod .(Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d gnd Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
For the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is (id. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Trjcks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
;0s (id. Mysteries Coust'of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
S 3
i
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 40jg Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang oe
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6cl.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. YVannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I<P~ Established SO Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s Cd. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees; 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.' G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is, Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bf.t and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, niy price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos-and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hpund, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6jl posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d, WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap BooK Depot*—
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
h
ANTI.
BILIOUS
ĥ
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.’’— Dr, G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
m FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY, Invaluable to every Mother of a-family,
The Illustrated Medical News
says '“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Berber’s Food has
bv its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own. ,:
ħ
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED,
BENDER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EVERYWHERE,
Benger’S Fo Dhas attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the com
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and pf Medi-
cal men who know its value,’-
An English Judge recently explained to a
witness the difference between presumptive and
circumstantial evidence. “ When,” he said,
“you see a nmn coming out of a public-house,
that is presumptive evidence that he has had a
drink, but when yon see a man coming out of a
public-house wiping his mouth on the back of his
hand, that is strong circumstantial evidence that
he has had a drink.”
“ .Robert Hap ” in the Domain :
On a recent Sunday I walked through Sydney Domain
and saw lots of people. A crowd was gathered round a
wild-looking man, who stood on a fruit-case, and flapped
a red flag with mystic signs that looked like triangles
struck by lightning. The man talked a lot about “ the
masses,” and “our cause,” and tyrants, and guns, and
upheavals, and revolutions, and milk-and-water policies.
Two men in blue clothes came up and asked the spouter
to cease and bear his flag hence. But the speaker
remonstrated some, and talked about liberty', and wanted
to know if they wanted him to sing hymns. They' said
they didn’t. After a while, the man picked up his
“ props ” and moved off reluctantly, followed by half his
audience. He left the fruit-case at a Dago’s stall and
went and sat on his flag in the shade of the cathedral and
smoked. I asked a man why the orator had been blotted
out, and I was told that he was “a fanatic” and “an
extremist.” Then I wanted to know what he called the
men who go about elegantly clothed in German cloth,
and who wear belltoppers and semi-circular waistcoats.
I meant the men who see more virtue in the nigger than
in the white ; the men who would have everything made
in any country but their own, and who can see no good
in the land which provides them with an easy means of
living. The man said he didn’t know, and took my
matches and went off to hear the phrenologist reading
bumps, near the gymnasium fence. I don’t know either,
but I’m wondering why no one looks tor “ fanaticism ”
behind a monument of fat, or for “ extreme views ” under
a belltopper.
“ Kodak ” : The enthusiasm of the novice.
Attended one of the recent fights at the Cyclo-
ruma (Melb.). The big event, as usual, was pre-
ceded by several heats of a novice tournament, in
one of which a gentleman with weird, wing-like
movements and an amiable expression played a
game second-fiddle to a tall youth with some
science and rib expression worth mentioning. The
amiable one’s fighting attitude was something
between a rooster on the brink of an early-morning
war cry, and an eagle about to swoop on a small
worm from the top of the Alps, but there was no
doubt about his pluck or his good temper. He
took blow after blow and smiled sweetly—or as
sweetly as a gentleman can be expected to smile
after he has received 15 consecutive biffs on the
mouth, 30 bashes on the nose, and 49 clouts on
the ear. Time after time he stood helpless and
gasping, but still smiling; while his opponent,
gasping and almost helpless, swiped wildly at the
air and tried to hit him into the Hereafter. Finally,
they fell exhausted on each other’s neck, where
they clung, and breathed over each other’s shoul-
der, in a way that admitted of no contradiction.
The referee awarded the bout to the gentleman
who had swiped the longest. The loser, battered
and bruised, staggered over to the winner, shook
him gratefully by the hand, and crawled out of
the ring. As he passed on the way to the dress-
ing-room he remarked : “ Well, I don’t care —l
(jot in for nothin<j! ”
Apropos ancient pubs. On the Parra-
matta-road, Camperdown, Sydney, stands the
“Governor Bourke,” erected during that poten-
tate’s term of office, and hearing his name down to
the present day. Most of the old house stands,
but it has a new front, to “ comply with the Act.”
“ Society makes Vice by refusing to pay
Virtue decently.”—George Bernard Shaw.


VICTORIA C
Collins StSwansfonS 1 :? Melbourne,
WEST. AUSTRALIA
395 & 397 Hay St Perth j
QUEENSLAND j
Queen ft Edward S* Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
146 ft 145 Queen St. Auckland
Ift3 LambtorvQuay.Wellington.
236ft235 HighS*; Christchurch.!
Prtnces ft DowlingS* Dunedhr.
h
tORNEB.CEOBCF st sydh^L
If it's from
Stewart Dawson's]
its good. T
Write the l!
store nee rest
you.
o
o
n
v
k
m
I
7
I’HE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “ it's an Honest
Watch.’’ It tells you the correet time always-=you neyar find it mis-
lead you. If you want just such a Watch wo can recommend for your
perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest Watches, pri:es for which range
from 14/6 to £7O. We will be pleased to post a copy to any who will
make the request. We mention on this page dependable Watches, any
of whiclj we wiil send free and safe by post, together with our written
guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
The Presentation Watch ,
s : D. & Co.'s Gentlemens Gold Keyless Half Chronometers
are the verj' best make, highest possible finish throughout. Finest
S;Plate movement. Chronometer Balance, adjusted to keep correct
time in all climates. Brequet Spring to counteract shocks caused
by jurrjping, riding, &c. Jewelled in the finest rubies, perfect key-
less action, Damp and Dust Proof, 18-ct. Gold Heavy Oases, suitable
for merchants, bankers, and professional gentlemen generally. These
Watches are unsurpassed as timekeepers, or in elegance of design,
quality, and excellence of
manufacture. Warranted
for 10 years. Price
Price with Double Hunting
Oases, £27 10s.
The ‘'Derby"
Double Chronograph.
n
—;
Our “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an instantaneous record
in minutes, seconds, and fifths of seconds of any racing event. The
chronograph works, act quite apart from and do not interfere with
the time-keeping of the watch in any way. It has perfect start,
stop, and fly-back action. The movement is f-plate and jewelled in
rubies, is fitted with '
Breq'uet spring and
with fine compensating
balance, with 18ct. Solid
Gold Case and Crystal
frontpiece.
Price, with hunting
cases, £22. In silver,
£6 10s. Open face, £7
10s., hunting.
*7"
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach,
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance. The
movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring, and compensation balance. The
winding is keyless, and the cases are of the Hunting style,
made of Hall-Marked Solid
Silver. We guarantee and
sell this Watch for
We supply this Watch
in two Higher Grades, £4
10s. and £fi 10s.
o
The “ Premier ”
Watch .
This is the highest quality of Silver Watch made. The
movement is the celebrated English Lever, and is finished
by hand. It has all the improvements which go towards
the making of a high grade watch, and it will be as good
after 20 years’ wear as it was when new. The Hunting
case is a 2Aoz. solid, hall-marked Silver one, thus ensuring
durability. Fully jewelled,
brequot hair spring, com-
pensation balance, ad-
justed. The price is
*
&
A Special Dust
Protected Watch.
and one that has met with general approval, is the “Excel-
sior. ’ This is an old favorite of ours, hut lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, f-plate movement. Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance, and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases, A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it, to-
gether with our
warranty, for
V, MAKERS PRICE VS
0
The Lady’s
Gold Filled.
.The ideal Watch for a Lady, Ladylike in size, and in
the exquisitely decorated genuine Gold-filled Case. Key
less, qf course, and fitted with a real good quality Elgin
Lever movement. A watch of beauty, a watch of satisfac-
tiorj, and guaranteed to outwear two or three cheap all-
gold watches, Price only
Price with 25 years’ guarantee,
14ct. Gold-Filled Cases, 45.
ĥ
A Three-Quarter
Plate English
Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full-plate Watch. The balance-wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance,
English Lever Watch,
with guarantee, for
ħ
The Famous
“Nonpareil”
Lady’s GoU Watch ,
These Magnificent 18 : ct. Gold KEYLESS “NON-
PAREIL” WATCHES are truly a specialty amongst
specialties, much recommended to ladies who desire a
unique, compact, and elegant inexpensive gold watch. The
entire Watch is most exquisitely finished, fine full jewelled
movement, 18-ct. Gold Strong Cases, perfect keyless action,
convenient and reliable. '• ; '! ■ “ '
Hunting Cases.
Price, with open
face, £6 10s.
h
ĥ
The Steel Lever .
We can recommend this watch for Country wear, the
Steel Cases being so strong and fit so closely that dust can-
not penetrate. The movement is al5 Jewelled one, Key-
less, f Plate, with exposed winding wheels. We find them
to he most excellent timekeepers, and they have a large
and ever increasing Sale in all our 8 different Establish-
ments throughout Australasia.
Price only
Price with Crystal
Open Face, 255.
jjupl
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc.,
is on the same system as
the men’s size. We will
post one free with guar-
antee on receipt of
ħ
h
The Old Reliable
Key wind English Lever .
This is the good old reliable English Hunting Silver
Keywind Capped and Jewelled Lever Watch. We have
sold this make of watch throughout the civilised world
during the past 31 years, and we can truthfully say they
have given genera] satisfaction. The movement is a gilt
and jewelled one, and is fitted with compensation balance
and a dust excluding cap. The case is a substantial one of
Hall marked silver. The
price,
Price, with three pairs
extra jewels, £4 10s,
Open face, 18ot, gold,
£lO.
©
An Ideal
Lady's Watch
is °ur 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
loot. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring,
it is a High-Grade Watch in every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
With 14ct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £lO 10s.; with lOct.
Gold Hunting Cases, £8 10s.
JK
Special Gold
Waltham.
i , 'V' r , , a nothing can be more suitable than the
14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Waltham Lever Watch. It is
handsome in appearance and not at all bulky—is a depend-
able timekeeper. The works are g plate to allow the
balance wheel to be out of danger, below the level of the
top plate. It has 15 Jewels, Compensating Balance and
JJrequet Spring.
Price
Price, with Best
Movement and
18ct. Cases, £2l ;
1
•**>
Get a Gold
Watch now
I)otf t put, it off until possession skives you no pleasure; buy
it now when you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. \\ e can supply a 14et. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for fiye and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this excep-
tional one, with
full easy and move-
ment guarantee,
for ;
Special Circular
on application.
(ft
»A
P


Beware of That Cold
PEPS are the New “ Breathing-Cure ” for Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, or Influenza.
A neglected cold may turn to influenza, pneumonia, bronchitis, or con-
sumption. More deaths are the indirect result of cold and chill than of
anything else. Watch for the first sign of a cold —“running ”at the nose,
that “ made-up” sensation, those pains across the temple, that sneezing and
painful coughing, soreness of the throat, feverishness, hoarseness, and
heaviness about the eyes.
All or any of these symptoms should be the signal for a dose of Peps, which, by reason of their
unique composition, can be taken at any hour, in any quantity, at any age, and by either sex ?
without the disturbing effects produced by opium cough mixtures and bad-tasting lozenges. I eps
cure a cold by destroying the germs that give rise to it. These germs flourish in all towns and
places where people are bunched together, as in theatres, restaurants, and over-heated rooms, lhey
And favorable lodgement in the mouths and throats of those people who are run-down, debilitated
by illness, over-fatigued and worried, or who are easily affected by sudden changes in the tem-
perature, and do not take the right precautions against chill on a wintry night.
Simply place a little Pep on the tongue, and let it dissolve in the stimulated
secretions of the mouth. The healing and antiseptic fumes of the pine at once
impregnate the linings of the mouth, and are carried over the diseased surfaces
with every breath, the noxious germs are utterly destroyed, and new health and
disease-resisting power is imparted to the delicate tissues.
Peps will combat the very worst cold in young people, as well as old, and
avert all those many serious complications that generally threaten. In what-
ever way a cold or chill has affected you—in the head, chest, or back —Peps afford
the treatment which is the safest, surest, and the most thorough, because it aims
at the root-cause of catarrh, and kills the cold-germs themselves.
h
ĥ
A Unique Household fledicine.
Peps are the latest and best family medicine for coughs, colds,
chill, influenza, lung-weakness, bronchitis, and difficult, heavy
breathing, wheezing, pains and tightness of the chest, tonsilitis,
asthma, consumption’s hacking cough, hay fever, running at the
nose, croup, children’s colds, whooping cough, sore or relaxed
throat, huskiness, and loss of voice. They are invaluable to
clergymen, teachers, lawyers, singers, and public speakers. In
cases of pleurisy, pneumonia, indigestion, flatulence, and forking
and throat diseases, due to dust and odours of one’s employment,
Peps are of great service. Of all chemists, price 1/6 per box, or
direct from the Peps Pastille Co., 39 Pitt St., Sydney.
FREE
TEST.
You may convince
yourself tha t Peps is a
sure cure for Coughs
and Colds by sending
this Coupon to the
PUPS PASTILLE
CO., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney, when a Free
Sample will be sent
by return mail.
Bulletin, Aug. 2/’O6.
Business, Hobbery, etc.
A matter of great imnnrhnep to onr mtivp
fact that the London firm possessed a vineyard at Mount
ophir(Vic.) was generally unsuspected. Everybody in Mel-
bourne had heard of Burgoyue in connection with bur-
gundy, but not one in a thousand had noted what the
Chancellor of the Exchequer stated in the House of Com-
mons some six years ago. An inquiry was made re
Australia’s export of grape juice to the dear old Mother-
land, the Motherland being just then very fond of her—
haw!—colonies, on account of the Boer War. The
Chancellor said: “I find that Messrs. Burgoyne intro-
duced Australian wine to the British public, and have
annually during 28 years paid more duty on such
wines than all the rest of the trade put” together.”
Annual payments have risen higher and higher since
then. Burgoyne and Co. are now able to prove
by Government figures that they paid duty during 1905
upon one-twenty-eighth of the entire imports of all wines
(retained for local consumption) into the United Kingdom,
" ;h ‘f “ ea "* aC - on I t . bofcfcle ? f 7 ne f “. ever y
eight consumed is Burgoyne s Australian, and that
Tmtara, Ophir and
t j,L . n hed t f hlS e^ raordinary reCOrd ’
difer W linfe whe " we ?? n ;
l.nnli.H fhi wiL P ken ln the countr y that
SV PP . . ‘ > # _
„„„ . , * , . ’ .
1° S’ , lde ? of , Placing their wine
dTibVt!'? cal P roducfc ln the and of
was more than 4 vears Bui F untll
herf Rmrmafr 3 , rL ir if Vi, A f m' 6 ago Ml ’ - Cu ,. th '
i° . famll y. ««?«•' vasa fine
property wasted as regards Australian wine trade in Aus-
tralia. Why not reveal Burgoyne’s brands to the public
who have, or should have, patriotic reasons for fully
appreciating their worth, and thus improve the local
demand for good liquor by putting it into competition
with the common or wine-shop stuff that lias done so
much to prejudice Australian connoisseurs against their
native wines? The result of this questiotfis the busi-
ness lately started in William-street, Melbourne, where
the offices are imposing and the up-to'-date cellars inspire
a thoughtful explorer with feelings too deep for utter-
ance.
• • • • • •
Mount Ophir, where the Burgoyne vineyard yields its
quota to the firm’s output, is the centre of the largest
vine-growing district of Australia, and the Mount Ophir
winery, which crushed the grapes of 45 vineyards last
year, has been enlarged, so as to deal with the produce of
fully 100 growers (large and small) when the next picking
time conies round. Thirty or more fermenting tanks
each of 2000 gallons capacity', are included in the Bur-
goyne plant. It is ‘ out' of the question that a
small grower can convert his grapes into first-
class wine. He cannot afford the cost of scien-
tific wine-making appliances, with the essential
provision for cleanliness—the cleanliness that makes for
godliness in liquor. To be well done, the thing must
be done on a big scale, and much labor must be
devoted to keeping the winery free from the faintest
suggestion of dirt. You may read about the enthusiastic
little vineyardist who makes a small quantity of beautiful
wine on the premises. You don’t find him in real
life. The little vineyardist may he as excellent as
his grapes, but his home-made wine is a bad one
to meet on a thirsty day. It is the ambition
of Mr. Burgoyne to introduce in due course
distinctive Australian names for local wines in
Fithers f of h the r industrv es a™! •1? rly
hanpv generic name * of vid-nrnni Angfiiiqn a
fortheclassofwine which LZt u h
or neart to tne average^ Austi alian.
“ rvif l » . T • i. j ~ . ~
UP. . 1 am beginning to wonder if it isn t
necessary to carry a gun. A mysterious-looking young
man knocked at my front door about a week ago. AY lieu
I opened it he murmured, “ It’s all right. It’s all right-
Won’t trouble you. It’s only a specialty for ladies.”
And with that he made off at a rapid trot. He has
called several times since, and each time has gone
through exactly the same performance. I have told him
arce , ,f a man °P®" S - the d ,° or - and lf ri. i° l ro morrow •
h /, m d ° esn *“
* s a ! and canters off down the street I «oudd
be relieved to know whether he wa prospective burglar,
or a re P hca ®* fche „ delle f New Yor > * . f Lu " at ' c ’
or an exceptionally timid canvasser, or What. Suielj
not vvflat. * * >
“ Melb.” ; There is still m existence a reprint
of an interesting old engraving. It is the arrival of the
first gold from the Victorian diggings, Ballarat, at the
Treasury, that pale blue stone edifice up by the present
Mint. The gold came in three drays, each with six
horses. The picture shows the clerks crowded at all the
Treasury windows. Most of them resigned next day and
were off to the diggings,
* * *
i oo ] cs very muc h as if some pastoralists want
to get rid of the rabbit-trapper rather than the rabbit,
xhe other d a Wagga (N.S.YV.) squatter told the
Pastures Board Convention that rabbits which had died
from scab, tuberculosis, hydatids and cancer were being
sold in N.S. Wales for human consumption. In reply Dr.
Brown, Vic. Agricultural Department pathologist, says
that cancer and tuberculosis do not occur in rabbits at
all ; and that scab does not occur in human subjects,
vvhile the hvdati d of the rabbit becomes the tapeworm of
the dog, anil is incommunicable to man. If the trapper
can be discouraged or abolished, the hungry squatter will
have a lot more cheap unemployed labor to exploit; and
thafc nlav account for all these diseases he is supplying
-1.,.
rabtm \ tn. . * *
,<-»*• „ rnl , r o
Melb. : I he demise of teawers, the banker,
rips up the whole Victorian history in that line. It began
with Foreign, that is to say English, institutions, till the
Union and Australasia, and naturally too, the N.S.W.
came for a cut and carve at the juicy joint, well-basted
with the gravy of Squattage. Then arose the Melb. ui-
stitutions, such as the Victoria, Colonial, and National,
Sawers begain in ’65. Halcyon era, save that vexatious
continuation of litigation had set in, with squatters, mer-
chants, and mining cos., especially' with the pastoral
interest. The banks played with fire too much, and
special establishments, with leaders like E. M. Young and
M’Bain, sprang up to take the dangerous business. In
Sawers replaced E. S. Parkes as Supennten-
dent of the Australasia. Parkes lost both legs
in Speight’s champion Windsor railway accident,
So Sawers came in for his £2OOO a_ year. It was a hot
time. Never before had Melbourne financial institutions
been thoroughly tested in the crucible all round. There
"’as the mushroom financing of the building societies,
which pretty well all went by the board, with the uncon-
sciously sarcastic name of “ Permanent ” sticking to a
number. Little fish devoured first, while the larger
chuckled ; but at last the very whales were in trouble,
I' l f B^B ensued the cruel pinch. State Treasurer Carter,
under “ Beef ” Patterson, took the clumsy step of order-
ing five days hank holidays, to which most of the banks
joyfully assented. Those that took no holiday, but faced
the racket, emerged head and shoulders above competi-
tion. No doubt other men were equally able with Sawers
!l t this juncture, but lie was, ever after, the typical pilot
"’bo weathered the storm. A reconstructed bank is like
a mended plate, or a woman with a repaired Past,
* * * *
Rcthti inquiry proceeding in England as to the re-
lative merits of whisky made from the “pot still ” and that
made by the “ patent still.” One expert witness declared
Steffi?
began to show signs of pulling round, and was given some
tea, wtiich it took very pleasantly, and behaved quite well.
There were no after-effects, and the monkey was happy,
The other 1110n key, when given some of the patent-still
whisky, got drunk and went mad. He went fly ing about
the place, and ultimately collapsed.” The pot-still
whisky, in short, made the one benevolently drunk, and
the patent-still whisky made the other mad drunk. Three
weeks afterward the witness changed the experiment,
and the monkey which had been peacefully tight on malt
got violent and uproarious with the patent-still spirit.
“O’Fipp’s” butcher has a grievance: “I see
by the paper,” said the butcher, “ a man named Wells
has been Writing a book about a place called Utopia,
where there ain’t any cats or dogs. Wish my shop was in
Utopia ’stead of Australia. It’s bad enough when dog B
come and sniff round a carcase or get away with a joint,
but the people who come in for dog’s meat and cat’s meat
are enough to make a saint sick. Here lam paying 3Jd.
a pound for mutton all round—bones and all—wholesale,
and yet people have the cheek to ask for dog’s meat free,
or else they buy a penn’orth, and expect two or
three pounds weight for their penny. But, bless
you, half the time it ain’t for any dog. They
make it up into French dishes for themselves—
rag-outs, and on-trays, and so on. You know' the style
of thing—they get it out of Home Twaddle or the Duke’s
Own Journal : ‘ How to Keep House for Twelve Persons
on £4O a year.’ When they have their cat’s meat, or
dog’s meat, they get a penn’orth of bones for soup, and
a penn’orth of herbs to go with them at the green-
grocer’s. Then they ask friends to spend the evening, and
think themselves Lord and Lady Muck with their three-
penn’orth of musky cookery. Blank them and their
penn’orths 1 It’s not as if they had no money to spend ;
the people with money are worst. If I had my way, I’d
do away with cats and dogs. Surely they’d have to get a
decent bit of meat without that excuse. I dunno,
though,” he continued, reflectively, “I suppose they’d
ask for a mutton bone for the horse then.”
* * * *
“ J.A.C.” : The quantity of schnapper consumed
in Sydney is remarkable. I had some, fried, the other
day, at: the w’ell-known establishment of Kakosicthus-
pulos. It was a good-sized fish, and had a backbone as
big as that of a small whale. I often wonder what be-
comes of the tons upon tons of kingflsh exported weekly
from Wollongong to Sydney. One never sees kingflsh on
a bill-of-fare. Nobody seems to care for it; everybody
eats schnapper.
K * * *
Outer London is now in the throes of a land
boom. “ Desirable villa sites ” have advanced in value 500
per cent, during the past five years, and outlying pad-
docks are being cut up into the pocket-handkerchief
allotments that were wont to gladden the heart of the
Melbourne ground shark of 20 years ago.
• * * »
Britain’s P.M.G. has committed what looks
very like a job in granting a monopoly of the country’s
wireless telegraph business to the Marconi companies.
Under the agreement signed by the P.M.G. no other
company, working a probably improved system of tele-
graphy, will be able to cut into the Marconi trade. No
limit is placed upon the charges which the monopoly can
make to the public, but it is agreed that the rates for the
Government shall be never more than half the ordinary
rates. The biggest shipowners are presumably share-
holders in the privileged concern which is empowered to
levy an additional rate, or tax, upon all ship-and-shore
messages interchanged by means of. any rival wireless
telegraph system. Marconi’s discovery, as worked by the
companies, is going to prove a great blessing to the fat
capitalist.
“Demos”: When are we Australians going to
be equal to the Frenchman, German, Yank, or Swiss, and
make our own watches ? Australians have no reason- to
be proud of the cheap trash they carry. Time was when
a man bought a watch which lasted over a generation,
simply because he had no option but to buy a good one ;
but now it is no uncommon thing to find a well-to-do
person with a heavy gold albert and a trumpery 17s. 6d.
turnip on the end of it. They are the plague of watch-
repairers’ lives, and possess as many complaints as George
Keid has tricks. They give a lot of trouble and no satis-
faction to the trade, because the price of repairing must
be low to harmonise with the article. It is about time
the duty on such foreign rubbish was made prohibitive,
and a big bonus offered to the maker of the first 1000
Australian watches, made wholly from Australian metals.
“T. O’Fipp”: A fisherman’s salesman recently
asked me to join him in a suburban fish-ahd-chips business.
He explained that the trade is very simple, and produces
a tidy income if you pick on the right sort of suburb.
Of course, it’s no good going to “ smart ” localities,
where the inhabitants don’t take fistfuls of
hot, greasy fish home, unless they are very
drunk. All the fish you need is a good stock of
barracouta. As a rule customers simply ask for “ fried
fish.” They get ’couta. Others, posing as epicures, name
their particular fancy. They also get ’couta, which, with
a slight difference in preparation, passes for anything,
from schnapper to bream, and is frequently praised as
trevally. In the fried-fish line, as in in others, faith works
wonders. A while back it used to be easy for vendors of
cooked fish to get “ gummy ” sharks for little more than
nothing, but of late there has been a slight rise in the
market, owing to the rush of boarding-house and re-
staurant keepers. The tail end of the gummies is served
out as whiting, and the other portion is worked up into
the mysterious “fish balls” which disappear so rapidly
at a boarding-house breakfast.
* * ■* *
“P.M.” : What’s the matter with this country,
anyway? Went to my tobacconist, the other day, and
asked for a certain brand of tobacco. Shopman looked
blank and said he’d never heard of it. Then he was
struck with an illuminating idea and suggested that it
must be “ colonial made.” I didn’t deny it. “W e never
keep ‘ colonial ’ goods,” he remarked with an air of con-
scious rectitude. Asked him why not. He said they
couldn’t manufacture tobacco in “ the Colonies.” Again
pressed him for a reason, but he didn’t have any theories
on the subject—just knew that they couldn’t and let it
go at that. I let him go at that also, and shifted my
trade to a less exclusive smoke provider. Passed along
the street to my grocer’s shop (the proprietor moves in
our most exclusive society, and would be struck with
paralysis of the comme il faut if he heard his food
emporium called a “shop”) and asked for a pound of
sweets. Servile menial gushed with “ Yessir, best
imported, one and six a pound.” Checked his ardor
with the inquiry, “Why imported?” He adopted an
air as of one imparting elementary instruction to
the weak of intellect. “There’s no comparison, sir; the
colonial are no good at all.” Asked him if they kept
them, and extracted the information that they kept them
in a tone that implied that they didn’t sell them. “We have
them, sir, IOJd. a pound, but they are nothinglike the im-
ported.” (Hesaid “ imported ” as if he were saying “God.”)
Put the same old query to him but he didn’t know, and
cared less. Just the same old axiom, “ They can’t make
sweets in ‘ the colonies.’ 1 staggered him by demanding
21b. of “colonial.” Tried them myself, but couldn’t
detect any difference, and the girl I gave them to never
knew that I had palmed off “colonial ” rubbish on her.
* * * *
“T. O’Fipp”; I have the misfortune to live
next door to a lady who is a spiritual medium. She is
also a palmist and a teller of fortunes by cards and
crystals, and she keeps boarders. Her husband advertises
“ developing classes,” so I suppose he is a bit of a medium
too —or else a photographer. Formerly he was a peri-
patetic phrenologist, and his wife tried pretty well every-
thing, from dressmaking to teaching step-dancing, before
she found that there was a silver mine in future-gazing.
That the mine does exist! have proof in the number of
fools—both male and female—who mistake my house for'
Mrs. St. Plug’s, and want to have their fortunes told.
One of these days I will probably yield to the temptation
to gather in their half-crowns with the aid of an imagina-
tive lady friend. Mrs. St. Plug’s advertisement used to de-
scribe her as Madame Le Ghoul, but when the police started
to prosecute various “Madames” for fortune-telling,
there was a sudden change in her name and her adver-
tised specialties. Still, though unadvertised, the fact of
her telling fortunes in any manner preferred by customers
is well-known even in distant suburbs, and one hears
wide-eyed girls in trams and trains assuring one another
that “ she does tell true.” As for the spiritualistic part
of the business, obvious representatives of every type of
fool in the universe flock to Mrs. St. Plug’s for “ trance
sittings.” They also frequently mistake the door, and on
Sundays I have to direct quite a host of dupes to the
house where “Mrs. St. Plug’s circle” is being held. Then
I am driven out of house and home by the lugubrious
hymns they chant to coax the spooks out. The medium-
istic lady frequently holds “flower services.” Visitors
are expected to bring and leave bouquets, for “ the spirits
love flowers ’’—and Mrs. St. Plug’s sister is a florist.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
ROSEHILL CUP, Rosehill, N.S.W., September 15 50,000 at 5 2 each.
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., October 1 100,000 at 5/2 each.
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Victoria, October 20 ••• ••• ••• ••• 100,003 at 5 2 each,
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6 ... ••• 100,000 each 5/2 and 10/4.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each fOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
be 2d. on each
to carry on the
any PARCELS
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COCJCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, itc. bears on the
Government Stamp tlie name of
the Inventor
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine Ishould
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should s.ay Chlokodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
isgi
» f
§
Tbe BRUNSWICK
Household
ICE MACHINE
is, as its name implies, a machine that has been brought
down to the small capacity required for a private house.
In short, where hitherto it has been impossible for the
private house or the large boarding-house to get a
machine that is not “miles too big,” the BRUNSWICK
has solved the difficulty, and will provide you with as
small a quantity as 2001 b. of refrigeration and 101 b. of
actual ice. This is a boon to those in the Country and
Bush who have perhaps power—the}’ only want 1-horse
power for the smallest size of machine—and can drive a small refrigerator. A small scheme of cold storage is
the greatest luxury it is possible to have, and we invite inquiries from squatters and others before the hot
weather comes in. Tell us what you want to do, and we will give you the fullest information as to how to dojt.f
BUZkCOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, &c., &c.
DRUG HABIT
lIAYE YOU FAILEr THROUGH
ħ
.DON’T DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABI
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for fond will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
llavenfiho> pe, W.A.. S 3 9 04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected u cme. I have no desire Jur drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very i,.ea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
Tne Dr. Langston Institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Beanie's Bronchitis Cure.
thce famous remedy for
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE . WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain- or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. /
33:ES"W\A.:Ft:E2 OF COUGHS Z
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULR.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
/
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man', and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and-he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. CUrrie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River —three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and traveled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. llearrie._ Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure. —Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland. -
BRONCHITIS.,
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr.' W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living in this township for the last 20 years. One-of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if they
knew the wonderful effect of this medipine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once ,
and can’t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREM ELLEN,
“Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states :—“ lam
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there ,is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has' been repeatedly
working for and singing thf praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, wrhich has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us alvyays to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF' THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearrie. Dear Sir,—l had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for.the past twelve months, then used the remaining hall
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years.
\ou are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY-
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duly bound to express
my gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use'this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Accept, my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to" try your
Bronchitis Cure. j¥fter three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it, as
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
w.
branch
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG,
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562
VICTORIA


k
R .'1 O
CURES.
CUTS
SPRAINS
BRUISES
RHEUMATISM
V
xV
O
c
c
v
v
i
m
yo
4
S
T
F*.-
influenza,
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Chill-on-the-Liver,
Weak Chests.
For
Weak Backs,
Aching Kidneys,
Asthma, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.
A Remedy of over 50 years' standing. Prescribed by Physicians and sold by Chemists in every part of the
civilized world. Guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium, or any poison whatever.
ALLCOCK’S— The Original and only Genuine Porous Plaster.
Ballad of a Bruiser.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY flarin’ bars an’ bettin’ shops I prowls
erlong me w’y
To tout or chew some bookie’s lug each
blessed night an’ d’y ;
Gorblime, liker John, I’m stuck each blessed d’y
an’ night
Down Bourke, wot pugs an’ spielers call ther
Grite ’Orstalian Bight.
No more I sprawls on lounges’ plush, within ther
dens of vice,
To booze, and spin the thick-uns, and ter shike
ther ivree dice.
Ther gong ’as banged, me wipe’s gorn up, I’m
beat an’ broke an’ boozed,
There ain’t no points in bruisin’ w’en yer pl’y the
bloke wot’s bruised.
A nd—ids two-up, pubs an’ ponies, it’s ther devil of
'cr time /
”E lives on stikes an' porter w'en 'e’s flush 'an in 'is
pr ime ;
Wen flush an' in 'is prime, ther pug, 'e blues ’is
'ealth an’ gold,
But—it's 'ot meat pies an’ corfee iv’en 'e’s oivter form
an’ old.
I’ve stood up ter ther best ov ’em, I beat some
slasliin’ pugs.
But I’ve got slops an’ Sheol too from extra
special mugs.
Yer find yer skill’s soon gorn astray agen a ’itter
’ard
AVot time yer slither o’er the floor all battered,
dazed and scarred.
I’ve fought fer oof, I’ve fought fer spite, an’, w’en
me luck went wrong,
I’ve gorn ter sleep (fer ’arf a quid) ter’elp ther
rent along.
I’ve fought ter owt ther bailiff, an’ I’ve fought fer
fun an’ fime,
An’, when ’e’s got a missus, cripes, a bruiser must
be gime.
And—it’s quick arf. clean an’ fancy strokes, don’t
bother ’bout ther power,
Just flash'em in an’ come aginc w'en boxin' fer a
shower ;
W’en boxin’ fer a shower, yer does a cikewalk on
ther floor,
But — it’s jabs an’ 'ooks an’ staggers w’en two blokes
is out fer gore.
Now, I’m sick ov swelled-up faces, dorg-sick ov
glarin’ gas;
Ther tarts don’t call me “ Pursey,” fer I ain’t got
no more brass.
I’ll start a shootin’-galleree up Eastern Market
w'y,
Dr run some pie-and-corfee stall, or steer a
brewer’s dr’y.
Once, w’en I cike-walked champions, I ’ad me
flarin’ fling;
And ’ow ther tarts, dead sweet on me, all bar-
racked round ther ring!
But outed clean be beer an’ fat, I toss ther towel
ter fite,
Until I dons ther mittens in some brighter, golden
site.
And — it’s pritty spar an’ fancy strokes, you’ve only
’arf an ’our ;
Then mike it quick an’ lively w'en you’re boxing fer
a shower ;
But on ther job, it’s 'ittirf’ard, an’ jabs an’ ’ooks
galore,
It’s broken jors an’ blessed 'ell w’en blokes is out fer
gore.
VKS.
LOUIS ESSON.
’Enry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE reached our new home early on
Monday morning, and by ten o’clock
the man next door had established
himself as a family friend.
“If there’s anything I can do to ’elp you,
ladies,” he said, genially, “ you’ll find me a willin’
worker. ’Enry Thomson’s me name, an’ nothin’
to pay.”
We thanked him, but declined his assistance,
u,nd be sat for the rest of the morning on his back
doorstep, watching the smoke-wreath upcurling
from his pipe, his mind apparently untroubled by
things of earth. His wife was washing—for other
people —and a crowd of shabby children assisted
her in the earning of their daily bread.
’Enry called on us next morning before break-
fast.
“ If there’s anythin’ as I can do, ladies ”
“Nothing,” we assured him, firmly.
“Well, I’ll send yer in a marrer and a couple of
pumpkins, an’ if there’s anythin’ you want doin’
just call for ’Enry Thomson. Neighbors, I always
says, should ’elp each other.”
The marrow and pumpkins did not arrive, but
’Enry Thomson afforded the neighborhood much
■entertainment during the morning. By 11 o’clock
he had cut two clothes-lines and overturned the
tubs. Eater, the family fled in all directions,
sundry pots and pans shot with celerity from the
kitchen door, and an axe reduced two chairs to
kindlings.
“Said I never cut no firewood, did yer?”
shouted the author of the disturbance. “Well,
there’s firewood for yer. ’Ow much more d’ye
want ? ”
Peace was restored only by the intervention of
the preacher from round the corner, and ’Enry
discussed the situation over the fence in the after-
noon.
“ Always on the nag,” he asserted, indicating
his wife, who was wearily replacing the washing
in the tubs, “never gives me no peace. I'm a
man as likes a ’appy ’ome. No, miss, it’s not
partly my fault. It’s ’ers. And,” he concluded,
“ she orter be thankful. Them clothes might ’ave
been a darn sight dirtier.”
We next saw Henry one afternoon when we
were looking for the entrance gates of the
Domain. He nodded affably, and said in answer
to our query, “ The Domain ! I’ll show yer the
way. Not five minutes’ walk from ’ere. I’m a
bit untidy, but I know ladies like you won’t mind
that.’
’Enry whistled cheerfully as we walked along,
and greeted his many acquaintances with appro-
priate remarks.
“My Sunday best,” he observed audibly to a
fish-seller, and winked in our direction. A par-
ticular friend was cleaning out a sand-filled drain.
“WhatO, Bill,” said ’Enry, genially, “ stirrin’
up the mikerobes.
“Wouldn’t ’urt you to be stirrin’ up something
yourself,” retorted Bill, not at all impressed by
’Enry’s friendliness. _
“Look ’ere, Bill,” said ’Enry, pausing. “’Ere’s
a riddle for yer. ’Ow do yer know the end of the
world’s coinin’ after this ’ere Jappernese war?
One of me own, this is.”
“ Bekus it never come before, I s’pose,” returned
Bill, grumpily. _ >
’Enry looked disappointed. “’E’s cute, Bill
is,” he confided to us as we went on. “It ’ard to
catch ’im.”
Presently the large white gates came in view,
and Katharine paused suddenly.
“We won’t need to trouble you any further,
thank you. Thank you so much for your trouble.”
“ Not at all, miss,” said ’Enry. “No trouble ;
not a bit. And I’m thinking I’ll go with you.
I’m only loafin’ about, and a walk won’t do me no
’arm.”
We held mute consultation, and remembered
an engagement elsewhere.
“Right you are,” said ’Enry; “women is
always changin’ their minds. Which way are yer
goin’, Miss?”
It ended in our taking the car, and paying Id.
each to go where we did not want to.
For several days after this ’Enry manifested no
neighborly interest in us. We surmised he had
gone away to work, but a conversation overheard
above an equinoctial gale enlightened us.
“ ’Ave yer seen ’Enry ?” called ’Enry’s wife.
“No,” came the answer from three doors up.
“’E ’asn’t been ’ome for three days,” moaned
Mrs. ’Enry.
“’E must be took up,” was the comforting
reply borne back on the gale.
We ourselves came upon ’Enry that evening,
when sheltering from the rain in a side street.
He was sitting with his feet in the gutter, in
about six inches of water, singing the “ Wearin’ o’
the Green.” Katharine, who had once been a
member of the “Mission to Streets and Lanes,”
remonstrated with him.
“Why don’t you go home?” she asked,
severely.
“Why don’t ’ome come to me?” responded
’Enry, indignantly. “ ’Ere I’ve been sittin’ till
I’m wore out —nearly drownded, too —a-clingin’
to this ’ere rock, an’ ’igh seas breakin’ oyer me.
An’ every ’ouse in the road ’as been goin’ past
’cept mine, runnin’ as ’ard as they can. So I’ll just
’old on ’ere till me own comes along.”
That he reached home eventually we heard
next day. Mrs. Thomson informed her friend
across the intervening yards that “’Enry was
’ome an’ was goin’ on shockin’. ’E’d chopped up
the sewin’ machine an’ the ’all-stand, an’ not one
of the family ’ad slep’ a wink that night.”
As a result of our several experiences, ’Enry was
now known in our family as “that awful man,”
and his overtures at neighborliness were firmly
rejected. He was specially anxious to assist in
the gardening, and entreated Katharine over
palings, “Let me ’ave that spade now, miss.
That’s no work for you, miss. You’ll ’urt yerself
and ’ave apperplexy in yer ’ead ”
“ No, thank you,” replied Katharine. “ I don’t
dislike digging.”
“I love it, miss,” returned ’Enry fervently.
“I’m ’appiest when I’m doin’ it.”
“ Then why not dig up your own garden ?” sug-
gested Katharine, mildly. “Charity, you know,
begins at home.”
“So it does, miss,” agreed ’Enry, “but what’s
to ’urt it finishin’ up next door ? ”
“ That’s what I says to ’im, miss,” chimed in
’Enry’s wife, who had joined him at the fence.
“Isays, ‘’Enry, the garden’s a mass o’ weeds.
Dig it up, ’Enry,’ I says. ‘ Make it fit ter be
seen.’ ”
“Gimme a spade,” shouted’Enry. “I’ll dig
it up. I’ll make them bloomin’ plants fly.”
The upheaval lasted fully half an hour. ’Enry’s
wife cried quietly on the doorstep, and the
children wailed in chorus as their chief source of
revenue became a scene of devastation.
Katharine, as the instigator of ’Enry’s industry,
bought uprooted cabbages from the shabby
children at a penny apiece. ’Enry’s afternoon’s
work cost her exactly 3s. 6d.
“You really ought to do something,” she said
to ’Enry’s wife, her indignation increased by the
sight of the huge pile of cabbages of which she
was owner. “ You really are entitled to a separa-
tion. And things couldn’t be much worse.”
“What can I do, miss?” was the hopeless
query. “ An’ me with six o’ them to feed. When
’Enry’s sober ’e’s a real good ’usband, an’ as kind
as can be, miss.”
“ But he’s so seldom sober,” objected Katharine.
“But when ’e is we’re that ’appy ! Me an’ ’im
goes out in the car every evenin’, an’ the children
’as their boots on every day. ’E’s pertickler ’bout
the children, ’Enry is.”
That night ’Enry was discovered racing round
the square with a rusty pistol, and his oft-repeated
remark that it wouldn’t be ’is fault if there
wasn’t somebody dead in the mornin’ had the
effect of bringing the sleepy policeman from
obscurity to act as night-watchman in our locality.
“This settles it. We move at once,” said
Katharine, firmly.
But after all it was ’Enry who moved.
At eight next morning he took the carving-knife
and called on the Stipendiary Magistrate round
the corner. The S.M. was strolling round the
garden, and readily gave ’Enry permission to use
the grindstone in his yard. ’Enry sharpened the
carving knife with much care, and was fastidious
over the keenness of the edge.
“And when you’ve done that, my man,” said
the S.M., who was looking on with interest,
“you can come round again—l’ve a job for you
here.”
“Right you are, mister,” said’Enry, “but I’ll
ask yer to excuse me fer ’arf a minute. I’m goin’
’ome now to cut me wife’s throat, but I’ll be back
as quick as I can. And,” he added, suddenly,
“if you’re a-standin’ there when I come, with yer
mouth wide open an’ yer eyes a-jumpin’ out of
yer ’ead, I’ll bring the axe along.”
The S.M. backed hurriedly, and agitatedly
called to his wife to ring up the police station.
“ Don’t be skeered, mister,” said ’Enry.
“You’ve a good ’arf-hour to live.”
Ten minutes later two stalwart policemen
escorted ’Enry to a cab, and he was whirled
away, the carving-knife being retained as a
witness.
It was two days later when the wan face of
’Enry’s wife again appeared at the palings.
“ ’Ave you ’eard about ’Enry ? ” she asked sob-
bingly. “’E’s took away. It’ll just kill’im.
’Enry can’t bear strangers round ’im. Thank
you, miss, you’re very kind, but me ’eart’s quite
broke.”
She stumbled back to the house, and above her
hopeless sobbing we heard again, “Pore feller;
pore feller. Me pore ’Enry.”.
IREKA.
The Liquor Question.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O’TOOLE’S views on the drink ques-
tion are stated periodically to Mrs.
O’Toole, any time between midnight and
three a.m.
Standing at the foot of the stairs, with his boots
in one hand, and a crayfish in the other, he is
wont to declaim —
“Dhrunkenness, Mis. o*Tjole—dhrunkenness,
is simply an’ solely a question av capacity ! Now,
luk at me f’r instance. Phat am I? ”
“ You’re dhrunk ! ”
“Correct quite correct! In a man’r av
sphakin’, I am dhrunk —that is, dhrunk to a cer-
tain degree. So a-are you ! ”
“Phat?”
“ Whiniver you take a glass av wine wid Mrs.
Casey. Because, I’ll tell ye why! Wan av th’
saints —I disremimber his blessed name f’r tli’
minit —he says, says he Wait a minit now !
Phat the divil is ut ”
“ You’re dhrunk 1 ”
“ Yis—that’s ut! ‘ You’re dhrunk,’ says he, ‘if
ye take but th’ slightest dhrop. There can be
no liquor taken without a correspondin’ amount
av in-intoxication. You are also dhrunk’ —he
says—‘whin, wilfully or through neglect, y’
grossly exsayd y’r natcheral cap-capacity. Then,’
says he, ‘if a mahn be con-constructed f’r ten
whiskies, let him have ten an’ be contint, but ’ —
an’ mind y’ this is most imporrtant!—‘but if it be
th’ manifest wish av Providence that another
mahn have no more than eight an’ remain dacent,
in God’s name let him have those eight dhrinks
an’—an’ pay f’r thim ! D’ye follow me ? ”
“ I’ll follow you wid th’ poker in a minit.
You're dhrunk I ”
“Mary, ’tis a disthressin’ habit ye’ve got inter
lately av sayin’ iverything at laste three times.
I’ve been mainin’ t’ spake t’ y’ about ut! Now,
phat’s th’ use av gom’ back like that an’ —an’
hammerin’ away repeatin’ a statement the truth
of which has been admitted ? How is this dis-dis-
cussion t’ procade if ye kape runnin’ ronn’ in
rings—so t’ spake? Don’t y’ know th’ rule av de-
bate that says, ‘ Whin an assertion or an alligator
is made ”
“ Phat a-are you talkin’ about ?”
“ Hould on an’ I’ll tell y’ ! Whin an assertion
or an alligator ”
“ I didn’t know they had thim ! ”
“ Well, they do! Whin an alligator is made an’
is either admitted or dishpised ”
‘ ‘ Dishpised ! ”
“Mary, did I say ‘dishpised’?”
“You did!”
“Well, y’ might have known I meant 1 dish-
proved’ ! Whin an alligator is made, an’ is either
de-mented or dish-pised, th’ debate shall thin pro-
cade, each gintlemin— gintlemin, mind y’ ! Who-
iver framed the rule had sinse enough t’ know it
was no use maltin' talkin’ rules f’r wimmen— 4 Each
gintlemin havin’ his sayan’ houldin’ his whisht
alternate, accordin’ t’ th’ lions laid down.’ D’ye
mind me, now ? ”
“ A-are you or a-are you not goin’t’bed this
blessed night ? ”
“ Well, now we come t’ th’ pint! ”
“ Phat is th’ pint ? ”
“ I am! Now, I may as well inform y’ I’m wan
av th’ most artistic an’ scientific dhrinkers ye iver
seen ! ”
“ Indade !”
“ Yis, indade ! I’ve often thought, Mary, that
me hear-rt is like to a har-rp, an’ whisky—joo-
diciously applied—th’ minstrel’s hand that tightens
th’ sthrings, lavin’ thim ray-sponsive t’ th’
slightest touch.”
“ Michael! If ye don’t come t’ bed now, I’ll
blow out th’ candle an’ lave y’t’ crawl up in th’
dark ! ”
“Wan minit!” O’Toole stands on the last
step and holds the crayfish impressively aloft.
• ‘ Can y’ tell me whither it was Omar-r Kic-yam
or Shakspeare that said, ‘’Twere better that a
mahn should go out an’ chop wood than that he
should waste his logic on a womanl’ Can ye tell
me”
“No — I can’t!”
“ Well,” mutters O’Toole, as he grips the ban-
nisters and prepares to climb, “I’ve no doubt it
was wan of thim two. Now sthop talkin’ an’
hould up th’ light so’s I can see where I’m goin’,
can’t ye ! ”
KODAK.


THERE’S NO PEACE
FOR THE KIDNEY SUFFERER
With the back always aching ; work impossible; no rest at night;
afraid to bend; standing erect causes a sharp, stab-like pain, that almost
takes away your breath, and leaves you weak, nervous, and despairing;
or suffering the tortures of rheumatism, or gravel, or urinary trouble —
there's no peace for the Kidney sufferer. But there is a safe, lasting cure
—Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They bring the health and peace of
mind that only the man who is free from kidney trouble can appreciate.
Bead the case given below of this Sydney man, aged 74, who has
been cured of serious kidney disease by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They brought peace and health to him—they will do the same for you.
An Erskineville Man —Cared to Stay Cured.
Mr. John Loaney, 20Swanson-street, Erskineville, this city, states :—“I wish to give you particulars of my
experience with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I owe these pills a debt of gratitude, for they have cured me of
very serious kidney disease. My trouble started three years ago, when I first had to lay up. I had terrible pain in
the back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were thick, and contained sedimentary matter. I also had
fits of giddiness, and every day I would have a violent headache. For three years I spent an average of two weeks
out of every three in bed. I had medical advice and treatment. Ten leading Sydney physicians treated me in the
three years of my illness. Their bills totalled £lBO. The general idea was that I suffered with stone in the kidneys.
I was constantly advised to undergo an operation. At last a Specialist put me under the X Rays. He found no
foreign substance in the kidneys; but a dark veil enveloped the right kidney, showing pronounced disease. He
told me an operation would not benefit me.
“I then gave up all hope of recovery, and fully expected to die soon. My friends were of the same
opinion. My lawyer was brought home, and made out my will. I was held up to sign it. Not long after
this, I was advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. The man who urged me to give this remedy a trial
had been cured by it, and had the utmost faith in its healing properties. He told me that he had been unable
to get about at all, and one box had cured him, and for good. One could not but be convinced that he was
in thorough earnest, so I sent for a supply. I used nine boxes, and was cured. This was seven months ago.
I felt no good effects till I was using the third box, and after that my recovery was gradual. I have not
needed to take the pills since, and am still in the best of health.
“My case is the more marvellous in that lam an aged man. lam seventy-four. The medicine I took
before I used Doan’s Pills would stock a chemist’s shop. I might mention that the operation which had been
suggested was to cost £6O. My cure by Doan s Pills cost me less than 30s. If I had used these pills when I
first got ill I would be considerably over £2OO richer to-day. My recovery is well known, and may be authenti-
cated by many, but, if anybody would like to see me personally, I will be pleased to see them.”
Bor sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Poster-McClellan Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.
“Every Picture
Tells a Story "
J
Ml
\j
a
1
-
_(6£ll
t/
(IA
/
V
V/
W l J
'''III
\ '
■cs
/
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Black Maria.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SAT in Black Maria, and four men sat with
me;
They bore upon their features the brand of
misery !
Their eyes were dull and hopeless—that strange,
sad air they had
Of creatures who acknowledge the fact that they
are bad.
What time we trotted forward, the State's unwill-
ing guests,
The chins of all were sunken upon their flattened
breasts.
And there was brooding sorrow within that shut-
tered car
Which bore us forth to Justice at Law’s spike-
garnished bar !
“Good brothers, why be cheerless ?” the present
writer said ;
“Be not bowed down with trouble—a better
day’s ahead ! ”
Their hopeless eyes were lifted, they mutely stared
at me
While I expounded to them my rough philosophy.
“What though in Black Maria we chance this
day to sit ?
Let us have strength and courage—let’s show the
proper grit!
The deeds we did were trifles —why should we
snivel now ? ”
One brother answered, sadly : “ Dunno—l stole a
cow ! ”
Again his chin sank forward upon his joyless
breast;
Poor putty-hearted mortal, found base by trouble’s
test!
But lo ! In bitter accents another rider spoke ;
Said he : “ Are you a parson, or some Salvarmy
bloke ? ”
“Nor one nor yet the other,” I answered unto
him;
“ A plain, unvarnished sinner am I in every limb.
But though in Black Maria, my spirits still keep
up ”
“ Rye-buck ! ” said he; and mentioned his fancy
for the Cup.
’Twas strange how sport affected the other gloomy
pair ;
One joined the cheerful faction, one wept in sheer
despair.
I spake unto the weepist. “Why should you
mourn ? ” I said ;
He sobbed in bitter sorrow, “I wish that I were
dead ! ”
“Why so?” I asked in pity—the tears ran down
his face;
“Because,” he answered sadly, “because of this
disgrace. ”
“ What have you done ? ” I queried ; his woe was
evident.
He sobbed and clutched his whiskers, “Church-
funds embezzlement! ”
“Bear up, then, like a Christian,” I strongly
counselled him;
But still his chest kept heaving, and still his eyes
were dim.
The cow-thief, too, xvas sobbing, clutched by the
same remorse ;
The other pair were talking of Cricket and of
Horse.
“’Twas ever thus,” I muttered, “the optimists
prevail;
For here be five who travel within a four-wheeled
gaol,
Yet three withal are cheerful, and only two are
sad—
There is a world in little in this go-cart of the
Bad ! ”
I sat in “Black Maria,” and four men sat with
me ;
Two bore yet on their faces the brand of misery !
Their eyes were dull and hopeless—that strange,
sad air they had
Of creatures who acknowledge the fact that they
are bad.
What time we trotted forward, the State’s un-
willing guests,
The chins of three were lifted from off their hope-
ful breasts.
And there were mingled feelings within that
shuttered car,
Which bore us five to Justice at Law’s spike-
garnished bar!
vie.
GRANT HRRVEY
A “Push” Lochinvar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I OT-TEL-On ! Any empty bot-tels
[ | or old i-urn ! Bot-tel-oh ! Whoa ! ”
Stopping was the one thing the pony
did with alacrity. He sat back in the breeching
at the end of a narrow, squalid street of Miller’s
Point, and the voice of Bill Smith, bottle-accumu-
lator and scrap-iron merchant, rang out above the
screech of ungreased lorry-wheels and the din of
street traffic.
A knot of slatternly women and urchins had
gathered some little distance down the street.
“ Wot’s up?” asked Bill Smith of a passing
wharf-lumper. “Scrap?”
“No; weddin’.”
Bill Smith chewed his cigarette reflectively for
a moment.
“ Weddin’,” he soliloquised. “ If it’s finished,
there’ll be some empties. Git up.”
The pony stopped again on the edge of the
crowd. On the step of an open door stood a red-
headed youngster of about ten, whose face had
recently been washed, and who exhibited other
unusual signs of a special occasion.
“Wot-o! Bill!” cried the youngster, with a
yell of delight.
“ ’Strewth !” said Bill Smith, and clambeied
down from the cart. His cigarette, which w r as
not alight, he took from his mouth and placed
behind his ear, being economical in small things.
Then he entered by the open door and stepped
into a room arranged for some festivity. Among
the people there his eye quickly found a girl
arrayed in bridal costume.
“ Bill ! ” she cried, and made as though she
would go to him. Her father blocked the way.
“Now, then, what brings you ’ere?” he de-
manded, aggressively.
Bill Smith assumed an attitude of careless ease,
his hands in his trouser pockets.
“I was just passin’,” he said, “and hearin’
there was a weddin’ on, thought there might be
some empties. So I looked in.”
He spoke to the man, but his eyes were still on
the girl.
“ Well, you see what it is. Nell’s going to be
married to the man I want her to, see? We
shifted over to the Point here to get rid of
you, and how you found us I dunno. But it
ain’t no good; I told you before I’d take damn
fine care you didn’t get her. Now, then, did you
come here lookin’ for a row, or what ?”
Bill Smith’s gaze had been transferred to a big,
surly-looking man, the bridegroom-elect. After
he had looked him up and down, and had been
looked up and down in return, he said :
“I always likes to make myself agreeable, and
I don’t see anybody here as I would be backward
in accommodating supposin’ I was asked.”
The bridegroom started from his seat, but was
pulled back by a female relative.
“ Well, have a drink and clear out,” said the
girl’s father. “ And don’t show any ill-will; you
can’t get the girl.
“ I didn’t come togged up fer a weddin’,” said
Bill. His coat was in the cart; his shirt sleeves
were rolled to his elbows; his old felt hat was
still on his head.
“ What is it —beer or whisky ? ”
“ It’s whisky,” said Bill.
“ Pour out your own poison, then.”
The bride had been sitting slightly forward all
this time, one hand resting on the table on which
the wedding breakfast was set. Either by design
or accident, Bill Smith, in reaching for the whisky
bottle, placed his hand on hers for a moment.
Taking a liberal quantity of whisky, he held his
glass in front of him, and said :
“It’s a good time fer a weddin’, this, so near
Christmas, but I s’pose the parson will be here in
a minute, and I can’t stay fer the splicin’. Makin’
speeches ain’t my dart, but here goes for a bit of
chin. Me and Nell used to be cobbers, and I was
goin’ to marry her, but her father says * Come off,’
and then runs away here and hides her. That’s
how long ago? A few months, anyhow.”
Here lie emptied liis glass, and drew tlie bade
of his hand across his lips. Then he went on :
“ He lammed her once, her father did ; and t
nearly bashed the head off ’im for it. That’ll do,
now,” he added, quickly, as the girl’s father made-
a motion forward. “You be quiet; I don’t want
to paste you again.”
“I may as well have another drink,” he said,
again reaching across the table, and again letting
his hand rest for a moment on the girl’s. “ That
one was for myself ; this one will be to drink her
health. Well, here’s hoping she will be happy
with the man she’s goin’ to marry. In fact, I
know she will.”
Somebody said “Hear, hear.” A frightened
expression came on the girl’s face.
“ I know she will. ’Cause why ? ’Cause I know
her. She’s obedient. Not long ago she would
have done anything I told her to. And, what's
more,l don’t believe she’s quite forgotten me yet.
If I was to say to her, just for fun, ‘Go and sit
over there near the door,’ I believe she’d doit.”
Almost before they realised that she had
moved, so quickly was it done, the girl had risen
and re-seated herself near the door.
“ What the blazes are you doin’ ? ” growled her
father.
“An’l do believe,” said Bill Smith, keeping
his eye on the now suspicious parent, “that if I
was to tell her, ‘when I calls out, “cut” yon
nick out quick and jump inter the cart,’ she’d do-
it like a bird.”
“ Here,” interrupted her father, “ you drink up
and clear out. We’ve had enough of this damn
foolery.”
“I’ll go in a minute,” said Bill. “Don’t get
narked. I’ve got a couple of quid in my kick,
and 1 might take it into my head to do somethin’
with it. Now, I’m goin’ to show you all a little
trick afore I go. You see this bit of line here?”
He drew a bit of rope from his pocket and
exhibited it. The big, surly-looking bridegroom,
who had been shifting uneasily in his chair, rose
and stood beside his prospective father-in-law.
“Well, that’s one thing,” said Bill Smith,
rolling the cord up loosely in his hand. “And
here’s another.”
He took a couple of steps near the two men.
Then, with a jump he was on them. The bulky
bridegroom, with a quick intuition, made a grab
at the enemy. But Bill Smith was somewhat of
a professional. There was a dexterous movement
of his foot, a wind-scattering thump in the region
of the short ribs, and the two men were sprawling
on the floor.
“Cut and run, Nell.”
The girl dartccT through the door like a flash.
Bill Smith was out in an instant, and, before the
men inside had scrambled to their feet, he had
banged the door, whipped one end of the cord on
to the handle, and made the other end fast to the
knob of another door on the other side of the
narrow hall. Then he ran out to his cart, into
which the girl had already climbed. The next
moment, amid the cheers of the little crowd out-
side, the pony was leaving things behind at a gait
that surprised itself.
“ It’s lucky I’ve got a few quid in my kick,”
said Bill, leaning forward and letting the pony
discover how the butt end of the whip felt.
“Oh, Bill, you’re a bosker,” cried the girl,
holding on to her Lochinvar with one hand and
the side of the rocking bottle cart with the other.
“My oath ! We’ll get hitched up at one of
them marriage shops.” *
And “ hitched-up” they were within the hour.
HUNT COLEMAN.


This is the strong and convincing testimonial of a
lady residing palmain, N. S. W., whose portrait
is also given.
“Some time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out I
wouldbecomesoill Iwouldliave
to go into a neighbor’s house
until I was fit to walk again. I
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
things lasted for months.
K
//
‘‘ At last I remembered your advertisements in the
papers, so determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
still another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.”
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. There are many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you get
AYER'S Sarsaparilla
and then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by DB. J. O. AYER & 00., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
NAME
ADDRESS ■
If you wish to receive a copy of the BOOK Mentioned in this advertisement, write your name
and address i» the space above, tear off this corner, and mail to
THE DR. MCLAUGHLIN CO.
Se,e address at foot of ad
" 1,1,^
- _
——*** *«-gggy To.nTr 1 - 1
i
TO MEN WHO
WANT STRENGTH!
THIS is a message to Men. To men who would like _ tojeeUike
men, to look like men, and act like men. This is to men
lack courage, whose nerves are shaken, whose brains, are
muddled, ideas confused, sleep restless, confidence gone j whose spin ,
are low and easily depressed ; who arebackward-hesitatinguriahe. o
venture because they are afraid of failure; who want somebody to
decide for them ; who are weak, puny, restless It is
part of all of these symptoms, and want new life, new force, ne 0 •
We offer it all to you in our Wonderful
*
d
r:
m
IMS
dr. mclaughun s electric belt
It cures men so that they stay cured. It will cure you, if you give it
a trial. Guaranteed in every case undertaken. It cures permanently
and absolutely. It pumps a warm soothing current of new nerve life
into your body for hours at a time, while you sleep; AND WILL
CURE ANY CASE THAT EXISTS of Broken-down Nerves, Weak
Back, Varicocele, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Stomach, or Bladder Troubles,
Constipation, Indigestion, Insomnia, General Debility, and all
Weakness of Men or Women.
11l
r. O. G. HAGEN, of OURRAWARRA, via VVAGGA WAGGA, N.S.W., writes
«I am dad to tell you that since using your Belt as you directedl have had no
trouble whatever with my back, and feel strong and vigorous in every way. I con-
sider it the one remedy for Weak Back and Nervous Troubles. Whenever I see a man
suffering from a bad back I say to him: ‘Go and get one of Dr. McLaughlin’s
Electric Belts.’ ”
h
HSPGET OUR FREE BOOS.
Sign your name to the Coupon at the top of this advt. Post it to us and we will
send vou our Free Book which will show you how to live all your years a Man. Send
the Coupon to-day. We will send the book by return post under cover and postage
prepaid. We will make you a written diagnosia FREE of Charge.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co S oow j%Z& st ’
90 William St., Perth, W.A. WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
How A
are f
you ■
Everyone is familiar with this expression. It is heard the wide world
over. Every language has its equivalent for “How are you?" Good
health is the one great universal wish and desire. The most eminent
experts say that four-fifths of all sickness comes directly from
indigestion* or a torpid condition of the liver and bowels.
]Beecham% ZPMti
cure four-fifths of all diseases by removing the cause. They tone you
up and dispel the impurities which cause sluggishness and heaviness—
Natures warnings of disorder. BEECH AMIS PILLS keep pec. ■!:
cheerful and make life sunny. They are the greatest known medicine
for uiving strength to the stomach* correcting the digestion and
regulating the liver, kidneys, and bowels, in fact they are an
unfailing remedy to
Keep You Fit.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price l/l*i (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
POPULAR PRICED RINGS.
Gentlemen’s Signet Bing,
Slot. Gold, 21s ; 15ct., 30s ;
18et., 455.
Gen tlemen’s Ri n g,- set with
an Australian Ruby, 9et.,
255; 15ct., 32s 6d ; IBct..
47s 6d.
■ass* s
lSet. Gold, set with 12
Diamonds and Brubies or
Kanidiires. £6.
“ The Store where Quality
Counts ” prides itself on
its Ring Values.
We buy the jewels in big parcels for
Spot Cash, whenever the market is
favorable.
Every Ring we offer is made right in
our own workshops. That is why we
can guarantee not only the quality of
gold used, but the setting of the stones.
You will pay at lehst a third more for
Rings of this grade at any other store.
Every Ring is sold on the definite
understanding that if it is not exactly
as represented you can return it,, and
we will refund your money.
Ask for our Ring Size-Card—Post
Eree on request.
18ct. Gold, set with 2
Diamonds and 3 Rubies or
Sapphires, 455.
18ct. Gold, set wirti 0
Diamonds and 3 Opals,
Rubies or Sapphires, 955.
rSc-t. Gold, set with 4
Pearls and 3 Rubies or
Sapphires, 255.
ANGUS & COOTE,
George St. IS“*2JSS:
SYDNEY.
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
REE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUllEby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
Dlt. RABONSKI, showing: sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
Q'YIDIISrEnr.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street.’ Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be.. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address: HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
JSTTES. 80‘d by all Chemists.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
Gentleman having tried to vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free oS charge, to any-
“"Address* 6 ! MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, whioh
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
EAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter ot
Ihow long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
m=! MA.RTI]\r, M.D., Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He. is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of Hen and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called ln=
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
men
AND
"OMEN
SULTING PRACTICE In the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made Ms
judgment infallible on Pri=
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has under.aken.
Free to All
A 50-pao-e speciinen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN°; Contains 34 Illustration sand Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6; or, if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
This magnificent medical work contains 602 pases Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


TO
Tennis Players and Clubs*
Slazenger’s Covered 1908
Championship Tennis Balls
14s. per dozen.
Postage in N.S.W. Is. extra.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
PrSce 6d.
Posted Bd.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool send to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
HARDY’S
ĥ
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
ħ
h
The above cut- illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 18!b=. Operated b'y/eom«re.sHed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS: Uf a I | CMDRICBC 506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
«** LcmrnicnE| And at 64 pitt st., Sydney.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
5
I il 111
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., l*
60 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bbvan and Edwards Prop!., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
■Bi PILLS HH
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of alt Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
rtTTifr-Rn-i'j trr
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
- STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S, Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
SolcT
by
all first-
class stores
in Austra
No. SI76A 2-BLADE
“PA MPA,”
Cocoa Handle
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle •
116
- 2b
- - 2/6
X
V
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
s SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
WET
KNIVES
are the
JOH w N* BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
The Victor in All
Recent Slime Saving
Competitions.
SIMPLE. DURABLE.
CAPACITY—I 2 Tons in 24 Hours.
POWER REQUIRED—f-Horse.
—.—_
Adjustable Dressing
Surface to suit ail
Ore Gravities.
-
. *wmm
.
.
. . .
rv
The Manager, Bombay
Syndicate Ltd., Coster-
field, Victoria, says:
“ The Sperry Siimer is
a great success with our
Slimes. It saves splendid
concentrates, 63per cent,
antimony and 2oz. gold
per ton. ”
The Sperry Slimer.
Sole Licensees
and
Manufacturers s
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne
