

The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1392.]
[Thursday, October 18, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
SIXTY YEARS'
REPUTATION .
R. Gro watkikts & 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS AMD GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HCOBART.
fiadlegs Orient fjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St, Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., *1 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AGENTS
for . ..
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
SIMPLE
ECONOMICAL
DURABLE
For General Farm Purposes, Grinding 1 Feed, Ptunping Water, Chaff Cntting, &c.
Send for Illustrated Lists and Particulars.
m
A-'*
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS SAFES
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
EDIS
IWAK
ioo--,
16.-A
‘■~v
V v
3ft
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
EH a SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
ad ,
d
u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
ASK
FOR
0
PAL
UNRIVALLLED ZN QUALITY-
SIMPLEX
The World's Best Oil Engine.
r iiiiiMiiiiii nr mr ii imu plants supplied.
In
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
oiqnojx jo Aj.iom o,m
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Ail Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue B.
E. COULSON
116 a’Beckett Street,
Melbourne
A. HARRIS CO.
T 56, 158, 160 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Wholesale Buyers & Country Storekeepers write Tor Catalogues and Special Sale Prices. t
Importers of Crockery, E.P. Ware,
Watches, Jewellery, Fancy Goods,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c., &c.
(Wholesale and Retail).
Gigantic Bankrupt Stock Sale
NOW ON. SEE DAILY PAPERS.
H ELI DON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GrOLX»I3MT CO.,


THE RED PAGE.
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
ME Sydney claims ; yet there is virtue
in Melbourne. Save at intervals, I
cannot admit its rivalry in charm.
That may be due to a personal obli-
quity : I like to be close to people and
things. Large rooms to work in, wide
streets to walk in, vast spaoes to gaze over—
however initially attractive or admirable—
presently weary me, by-and-by worry me.
The preference is not portentous enough to
be called agoraphobia, yet I own it, and a
man should dleave to Iris own. After
all, it is a physical sentiment, the senti-
ment of a child who cuddles close : for
the mind is another kingdom, and may
preserve the infinite distances. Preserva-
tion of a moderate distance is obligatory—
from trams, for example. Tram-wheels
grind the nerves harshly, and grind them
exceedingly small. Yet on the seventh
storey those very trams supply a carminative
for the flatulence of Silence : they are the
comrade the cricket on the hearth,
the cheerful hn-lan-lone of evening bells :
and comfprt one subconsciously with the
presence of the city close, yet apart. The
ideal is not expressed accurately as solitude
in a crowd. It should be solitude and a
crowd.
J*
By the analogy' of London I would elevate
a taste to the rank of a judgment. The
Londoner’s devotion to his city is proverbial,
and is intelligible to a devotee of Sydney.
Despite the murk and squalor London is
homely, friendly I speak of the ancient,
central city, not of the bleaker outskirts :
Fleet-street and its purlieus will serve to
guide a memory. Necessarily, I suppose,
all the lanes ridiculous to a civic reformer
will be improved by degrees out of existence,
and I shall regret them : -they are so human,
so sociable. The houses lean over and
talk to you, as in older Sydney ; and
they are close enough to talk without
raising their voices, they are close enough to
whisper. In Melbourne they are withdrawn
so far that they must shout if they are to be
heard at all; and I dislike being shouted
after : it is an intrusion upon one’s honour-
able privacy. Nor can I concede a compen-
sating dignity to Melbourne streets. Collins
is not yet tall enough for its width. There
is a certain satisfaction in gazing down its
ample avenue, but one rises superior to that
satisfaction. Collins-street becomes a sub-
ject of criticism, and criticism should be
confined t» politics and the magazines. For
people you live with, cities you live in, it is
an irritating companion.
And the whole of essential Melbourne is
like Collins-street: it invites criticism, and it
does not permanently justify the invitation.
It does not seem Lome a city at ease and
assured, and in its unrest there is an element
of worry : its ti .ms are too close. Sydney’s
restfulness is apt to become a torpid com-
placency, as of a cat in the sun ; but you do
not think about that any more than the cat
does : you bask and lap bliss—or, with an
audience, purr as I. In falling archi-
tecturally beneafcii criticism, Sydney rises
ideally beyond it: “Mistress, I only love.”
It is a city in shirt-sleeves, while Melbourne
is coated; but the pattern of Melbourne’s
coat lacks reserve, and anyway, you cannot
work in your coat. Some people d@, but
those are the people you don’t like.
There are some things in Melbourne that
are not in Sydney : I have never seen in
Sydney three phonographs blaring before
one shop on Saturday night, while on
the other side of the street seventeen
husbands and fathers guard seventeen in-
fants in seventeen prams, and await the
shopping wives and mothers. These things
exist in Melbourne, for I counted the
prams while the phonographs counted them-
selves ; and, philosophically speaking, I sup-
pose there is no reason why they should not
continue to exist—in Melbourne. I have
heard a phonograph in Sydney—probably a
Melbourne man brought it over—but it
withered away in a night, unable to endure
its disharmony with Sydney’s peace. I
shall be told* there are other phonographs in
the suburbs, but anything may happen in
the suburbs. Very likely there are prams in
the suburbs; but on Saturday night in
Sydney the father carries the infant. There
is no intrinsic merit in that, and he must find
it rather tiresome, though I suspect it is only
the first infant that is so carried, and pos-
sibly not without his protest. Nor is there
any intrinsic demerit in prams : a pram is a
colourless object. It appears to be used in-
differently by either sex, which proves it
lacking in character. You can only say that
Melbourne’s custom differs from Sydney’s,
and prefer Sydney’s.
The Saturday-night girls in Sydney differ
also from those m Melbourne. Here again
Melbourne may plead the legal defence of
“use and wont,” and the defence is valid.
Thus I do not presume to complain, and if I
comment it is only in order to praise the
Sydney girls. The Melbourne girls are very
thick ; they have a kind of clotted appear-
ance. It is not an unattractive appearance;
particularly when viewed edgeways or at an
angle ; but there is a good deal of it. The
Saturday-night girls in Sydney have not that
appearance ; their blushing honours seem
somehow thinner upon them. I admit that it
is impossible to be too much of a good thing ;
but to a prejudiced Sydney eye, the Sydney
girl is just enough. The Melbourne girl is
more. And the Melbourne girl des not hop
away as quickly as the Sydney girl. I do not
say that she cannot, but only that she does
not. This item, upon a superficial view,
may seem in favour of the Melbourne girl;
but not when you reflect that the Sydney
girl necessarily hops back more quickly. In
a general summary of excellences, I suppose
the Sydney girl has no advantage. Yet,
after all, she is the Sydney girl : you cannot
deny that.
J*
A Melbourne politician said to me: “How
is it you send so many unkindly people over
bo us 1 We can get along with the Queens-
landers, with the Westralians; but we find
it difficult to get along with Sydney
men. They seem so much inclined
to snarling and sneering.” I explained
that in Sydney the liver grows larger,
the nerves become tauter, the brain
works at a greater expense of the body.
Melbourne is kindly because it is healthy.
Sydney is not unhealthy, but it is un-
easy if you do not take it aright. It
is an earthly Paradise whicli varies the
text by demanding that Adam shall earn
his bread with the sweat of his brow,
even while he remains within the gates. At
the small expense of a daily quart of per-
spiration one may live a higher life than Mel-
bourne’s till the age of 148, and die in an
apoplexy of sunshine and blue balm.
To make a representative anthology of Aus-
tralian verse is no easy task. On the urgency of
a characteristic letter from Brunton Stephens, the
, present writer commenced it as long ago as 1898,
and has devoted occasional spare time to it ever
since : with the result that he reached the top of
a mountain of labour and found—in response to
possibly indiscreet advertisement —new peaks to
scale, fresh Alps to climb.
Yet the task in one way is easier to-day than
when it was too hurriedly attempted by Douglas
Sladen. In the last ten years a good deal has been
done towards establishing a canon of local criti-
cism. With the lapse of time we have learned
to place many writers in perspective, and the
comparative merit of well-known examples of
Australian verse has been settled by strife and
attrition of opinion. Were Sladen to commence
again, he would not need to risk disaster at diffi-
cult fences, for he could find in many places the
summary and elucidation to give his judgment a
lead.
On the other hand, and particularly in The
Bulletin, the crop of new verse with a claim to
consideration has reached so luxuriant a growth,
that the labour of culling golden ears has been
increased immensely. And a very considerable
portion of that crop flourishes by the wa vside--
or, dropping metaphor, a great deal of excellent
verse has never reached the convenient category
of “ book form,” and must be sought here and
therein the files of a magazine or a newspaper.
Mr. Bertram Stevens, who edits a new An-
thology of Australian Verse just printed in Glas-
gow, is to l>e thanked for the careful pains
which he has devoted to his useful and interesting
little volume. He has been unwearied in pursuit
of biographical details ; and the recital of facts in
his introduction and notes—despite occasional
blunders of date or scope (the last edition of
Kendall was published in 1903, not 1904 ; Lawson,
Quinn and others should have been indicated as
writers of prose, as A. Cambridge and E. Turner
are indicated ; &c.) —is for the greater part fresh
and valuable.
It is not altogether by Mr. Stevens’ fault that
his collection is partial and unrepresentative. The
existence of a similar and concurrent scheme, with
prior claims, debarred him from full access to
possible material; and people who look for many
well-known names will find them conspicuous by
absence, while the examples attached to other
names are so unworthy that they give no idea of
the writers’ talents. This reason, however, does
not account for the exclusion of Maorilanders
such as W. P. Reeves and half-a-dozen more, or
Australians such as E. G. Murphy and a score
more. There is room for complaint, also, against
Mr. Stevens’ method of printing mutilated pieces
without a clue to his omissions. Yet there
remains a substantial body of writing, some of
which—like M. H. Foott’s —has been gathered
from volumes now comparatively rare ; and in
this way also .the collection is welcome.
In an Australian sense, it is misrepresentative
—an anthology of the second-best. The antho-
logist, of course, must display his own taste ; and
Mr. Stevens’ taste is rather English than Austra-
lian. He seems to prefer sentiment to passion, and
effeminacy to virility. With much that is of real
merit he includes much that has nothing beyond
nice manners to recommend it —neat, feeble, and
ladylike stuff of the kind that is usually denomi-
nated “ album verses.” So, to an Australian eye,
his collection seems pallid and meagre, lacking
in the rude, hearty virtue of the country it pur-
ports to embody.
«
Notes by a Nomad, “an olla-podrida ” by W.
A. Horn (Melb., Melville and Mullen) is a little
book of gossip about a lot of things in Australia
and Maoriland, with a chapter or two for Egypt.
The author prints his own verses, makes his own
liberal illustrations, and helps us to pass an hour
agreeably. There are a few things in the book to
disagree with, but the general view is honest and
hearty.
THE [?]AND OF HILTS
A Short History of the Scottish £*s**“"£*.
Isles, by W. G. Mackenzie, with 18 illustrations
and a map, is published by Alex. GardnerfPaisley ,
ss. net). It is a compendium fully crammed, in
the hotchpotch of Scottish racial mixture, where
Celts, and Scots, and Norse, and Piets, and earlier
aborigines have merged, it nas always to be
remembered that the Highlanders and Low anders
are men apart. Their differences, says Mackenzie,
have been produced not only by environment, but
by racial inheritance, though in recent centuries
the distinction has become less marked. Yet en-
vironment is important also. “It is easy to
believe that the character of the Highlander
has lieen moulded not inappreciably by the rugged
beauty of his surroundings. He has received
deep and lasting impressions from the mist-
crowned mountains, towering grimly over wild or
verdure-clad glens;” from the river in spate, from
the angry sea, and from the lonely moorland.
These impressions have been accompanied by a pro-
found sense of the mystery of Nature in its varied mani-
festations ; and this sense has produced, in turn, an
attitude of reverence for the Unseen and awe for the
Incomprehensible, together with a true feeling for the
poetic, all of which have been transmitted in the High-
lands from generation to generation. They have been
accompanied, too, by an attachment to home and kin-
dred unparalleled, perhaps, in any other part of the
Kingdom, and manifested by a susceptibility to nostalgia
which is sometimes quite remarkable. Along with the
mental and spiritual attitude induced by the physical
feattires of the country, hardiness, strength,, agility, and
a contempt for danger were bred in the bones of the
inhabitants, by reason of the necessity which existed for
the exercise of those qualities in a sterile though
beautiful land.
In the seventh and eighth centuries, under the
influence of Columba, the Highlands came
to be recognised as the centre of culture
and the home of art in the British
Isles. Then the Norsemen swept over the
land, and in the eleventh century were rulers of
the whole of Northern Scotland. Just .when the
kilts became Highland garb it is impossible to
trace ; but a Norse king was persuaded to experi-
ment with them about 1100, and he introduced
the garb to Norway, where it was worn for a cen-
tury afterwards. “ The hardy Norseman,” says
Mackenzie, with a trace of satire, “ who survived
the use of the dress in a Hebridean winter, only
to fall, in 1103, on the coast of Ireland, a victim to
his freebooting propensities, is known in Norse
history as ‘ Magnus Bareleg,’ in allusion to his
daring sartorial experiment.”
The Norsemen were not finally expelled till
1266.
The Norse occupation left its permanent mark upon
the islands, and, in a lesser degree, upon the Northern
am' Western Highlands. Evidences of the Norsemen’s
presence remain to this day. In the Hebrides, as well os
in the Orkneys and ghetlands, Norse place-names are'ih
overwhelming preponderance. The Norse type of
physiognomy is conspicuous ; Norse customs are found
grafted on the insular life ; and to no inconsiderable
extent, Norse traits have modified the Celtic character in
the whole Hebridean group, particularly in the outer
section. Traces of Scandinavian occupation are dis-
coverable along the whole of the north-west and north-
east seaboard ; while the Orcadians and Shetlanders of
the present day are more Norse than Scottish in every-
thing except their language. It cannot be questioned
that the Norse element has proved a source of strength
to the Highland character.
Jt
The essential characteristics of the High-
landers, however, seem to he what are commonly
called Celtic. Mackenzie refers to their “ defec-
tive tenacity,” and describes their distinctive
military qualities as “impetuosity lacking in
discipline, and valour lacking in endurance.” But
they were always lively, and until about 1500
Scotland was one of the most ebullient places of
residence in the world. In those earlier days the
Highlanders despised Lovvlanders and English
equally. “ Lowland Scots and Englishmen were
to them simply Sasyunnaich (English : speakers),
alike alien in speech, raee, and customs.”
For a long time there was strife between the
Highlanders and the Scottish kingdom. Occa-
sionally the strife grew so bitter that even Eng-
lishmen seemed preferable to the Scots.
In 1545, the Council of the Isles, consisting of seventeen
Highland chiefs (not one of whom was able to sign his
name), delegated two commissioners to jenter into nego-
tiations Ibr the transfer of their allegiance to England.
Donald Dubh bound himself to assist Lennox with eight
thousand men against the “ auld enemies ” of himself and
his ancestors, declaring that he entered the service of
England willingly, disclaiming all allegiance to Scotland,
J*
Then came the time when the sword gave place
to the pen, and honest robbery to dishonest trade.
The big clans, backed with legal authority, swal-
lowed the little ones ; and Mackenzie says that
“the process of aggrandisement by which the
great Highland families rose to eminence is an
interesting study in ethics.” It was the Low-
landers, however, in whom the trading virtues
were paramount. The Highlanders were usually
poor and proud.
The pride and poverty of the Maeneills were in later
years a byword among their fellows. Tradition says that
in ancient times it was customary for a herald to sound a
horn from the battlements.of the chief’s castle, and pro-
claim aloud in Gaelic : “ Hear, oh ye people, and listen,
oh ye nations. The great Maeneill of Barr having finished
his meal, the princes of the earth may dine ! ”
Early in the seventeenth century the ascendancy
of Scotland was finally settled by the trapping of
the last outlaws in the Hebrides.
In July, 1609, Bishop Knox met in lona nearly all the
principal men in the Hebrides, and, with their consent,
drew up a series of statutes which form a landmark in
Highland history.
These statutes, nine in number, dealt with a variety of
matters which may be briefly summarised as follows
(1) The maintenance, of the clergy and churches. (2)
The establishment of inns. (3) A reduction in the num-
ber of idlers, attached to the chiefs’ households or other-
wise. (4) The punishment of sorners (Fr. sijourner). (5)
The drinking habits of the Islesmen. (6) Education. (7)
The prohibition of fire-arms. (8) The discouragement of
bards. (9) Enactments for enforcing obedience to pre-
ceding Acts.
“It will be seen,” adds Mackenzie, “that the
observance of this agreement involved a recon-
struction of the whole religious, social, and
economic fabric of the Hebrides. The statutes
placed a finger on the weak spots in that struc-
ture.” And he makes no reservation in regard
to clause 8.
**
From the seventeenth century the history of
the Highlands tends to become more and more a
part of the general history of Britain. Less under
the obligation of crowding his pages with detail,
Mackenzie gives a readable account of the process.
His pages describing the common life in the
Highlands to-day are especially well-written, and
many people in Australia will take interest in his
book.
= «.
Dol., hanging heavily on Time’s forelock, asks
for the title of “ some book dealing with the question of
secession from the Ccmm on wealth.” You have to be up
bright and early at the debating-society nowadays....
A. 0.0. : The practice of two-nouns-to-a-singular-verb
isn't justified because named hendiades. It’s safer to
keep little men on the grammatical path.
CGRRKNC[?]S
There is no denying that “ Steele Rudd is the
real thing and writes the real A tistralia. His new
book. Back at Our Selection , just published m
Brisbane, is as full of ' crude, honest,
homely, vigorous vitality as were the
earlier books; and his bpshman’s faculty of
humourous observation is as attractive as ever.
There is very little studied art about “Steele
Rudd,” and few literary graces ; but his charac-
ters are the actual men and women of his selection
life, and their ways of thought and speech, then-
foibles and virthus of character, are set down
with vivid reality.
Old Dad is still to the fore in this book, but
he soon drops out of polities, and much of thespace
is devoted to Dave and Dave’s wife. There are
more women in the front of the stage, and they
have more to do, and they do it just like women
from a man’s point of view. The characters
are broadly viewed, but the breadth rarely
goes as far as caricature, and there is no
diminution of the cheerful spirit of fun.
that has made “ Our Selection ” a household word
in the Bush. Considering that this is his fourth
book on the subject,” Steele Rudd’s” spontaneity
and variety are remarkable. Everywhere in the
Bush at least, Lack at Our Selection is sure of a
welcome.
The volume is printed in the manner of the
earlier books, and illustrated by Ruth Simpson,
Ruby Lindsay,.and Ashton Murphy. Some of the
illustrations are technically shocking, and some of
the details are rather rough-; but errors and short-
comings seem somehow to swing with the spirit of'
the whole performance, as if young Australia were
flinging things around from sheer gladness of
heart in a reckless and original manner of its own.
J*
J. H. Hager professes to give N. Y. Bookman
the “ circulation ”of some French authors. Rent
and labour being cheap in Paris, the cost of pro-
ducing a book is low: nevertheless, a French
edition is usually only 500 copies. Advertising is
dear, hence a book’s sale depends greatly on the
personal influence of author and publisher.
Georges Ohnet is always the most popular French,
romancer : he may sell 200,000 copies of a book.
Anatole France, who derided him, can sell only
from 15,000 to 30,000 sales in France, as-
elsewhere, bearing little relation to literary
merit. Hager credits Rostand’s Cyrano with.
280,000, and L'Aiglon with 250,000 copies. Paul
Adam and Mirbeau are given an average sale of
50,000 to 60,000; Bourget, 20,000 to 30,000;
Hervieu, 20,000 to 25,000 ; others, under 20,000.
“Gyp ” and Mareelle Tinayre are the most popu-
lar female writers, with sales about 20,000; others,
under 10,000.
G. C. Lodge, in Scribner’s, has a good example
of the Amer. scholastic verse;'much'indebted and
consciously admirable. Markham’s oppressive
“Man with the Hoe” is the type of So much
sad moral stodge that academic Pharisees
manufacture into little masterpieces of the
second-hand and second-rate. It is not bad
because it is moral, but it is vulgar because its
phylactery is worn ostentatiously. That pained
attitude of interrogating an unsatisfactory uni-
verse always seems to fit a literary little Jack
Horner, putting in his pen and pulling out a
poem with ‘‘ What a good boy am II"
W, H. Flood, in the Athenaeum , probably has
surprised many people by pointing out that the
famous song of “The Widow Malone” was not.
written by Lever. Flood has a copy of the song
as printed in 1809, when Lever was in his third
year; the author’s name being given as Daniel
O’Mara, a Dublin playwright.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. issues an Australian
edition of Not Understood and Other Poems , by-
Thomas Bracken, recently published in Maori-
land.
J*
Reynolds’s reports an address on “ the liberty of
the Press ” by Thos. Thompson, editor of Essex
County Chronicle , that has more than a little Aus-
tralian application :
The journalist carried his purse, if not his life, in his
hand every day. He dared net write a telling, effective,
independent paragraph, however good his cause might
be. He risked everything he possessed if he ventured to
expose a common swindler for the benefit of the public.
Many papers had suffered simply for performing a duty
they owed to the country in frying to save the people
from ther worst class of company-promoting rascals and
others of that ilk. Newspaper men were entitled to a
freer life than they possessed, and they ought not to be
walking about half their days with bits of blue paper
next to their hearts.
There were certain men hanging on the skirts of the
legal profession whose consciences, if they were existent
at all, were wonderfully elastic. They had people to
examine the papers to see if the slightest mistake had
been made, they had touts to wait upon the people who
were supposed to be affected, and they brought bogus
actions for libel in that way. The plaintiff probably was
a person without character, as he was also usually with-
out money.
The consequence was that a paper did not fight him ;
it paid 10i., 20f., or 301. rather than be bothered with an
action at law, extending perhaps over twelve months,
where there was no chance of recovering the costs in the
case of a successful defence. That state of things was a
comple e disgrace to a country which called itself free,
and showed that “ the Liberty of the Press ” was simply
a phrase and nothing more.
A.G.S.
THIS WEEK’S NEW BOOKS.
Maxwell, The Guarded Flame, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Stoker, Yoga Methods, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Ebbard, Dyspepsia and Costiveness, 3s, post 4d.
How to Do More Business, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Anthology of Australian Verse, cloth, gilt top, 2s fid,
leather, gilt top, 3s fid, post 4d.
Stead, Fishes of Australia, illus., ss, post fid.
Thresh and Porter, Preservatives in Food and Food
Examination, 16s, postage Is.
Ohnet, The Path of Glory, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Crotch, Telegraph Secondary Cell Installation, 3s, p. 4d.
Zeda, Electric Bells, Indicators, &c., 2s 6d, post 4d.
Hyatt, The Pocket Thackeray, 2s 6d, post 4d.
Ingalls, Notes on Metallurgical Mill Construction, 10s 6d,
post Bd.
Souter, The Australian Golfer, 10s 6d, post Bd.
Jude, Theory of the Steam Turbine, 18s, post Bd.
■Carpenter, Days with Walt Whitman, 6s, post 6d.
& CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 1/6-
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
A—The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, . BUMETs THOL
TTT.7UBE9 ” do not interfere with digestion. Un
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food.


Soiac3L Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading- Sydney Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS. The Leading Sports Depot.
CRICKET.
MEN’S BATS
Postage on Bat, Is., N.S.W.; Is. Bd., Inter-State.
ss.
BUSSEYS
CLAPSHAW’S 6s, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d, 15s.
F. H. AYRES’ All Cane 13s, 16s.
E. H. AYRES’ DOUBLE RUBBER HANDLE STAMPED
“CAN’T BE BEAT” SPECIAL SELECTED ... 18s 6d.
F. H. AYRES’ International ... ... ... ...20s, 245, 295.
10s 6d. 15s 6d, 18s 6d. 20s, 22s 6d.
COBBETT’S
WISDEN’S ... ...
WARSOP’S
SYKE’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
BARTLETT’S ...
DARK’S
NICOLL’S
HEARN’S
STUART SURRTDGE
GUNN & MOORE’S
SPECIAL VALUE BATS
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d. 17s Gd
12s 6d, 16s, 18s 6d 20s, 255.
8s 6d, 14s 6d, 21s, 255.
8s 3d, 8s 6d, 11s 6d, 14s.
18s, 19s, 19s Cd.
12s 6d, 15s, 18s, 19s 6d.
... 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 245.
... 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 225.
14s 6d, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
... 13s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
21s, 255, 275.
12s 6d
MEN’S STUMPS
Postage on one set Stumps, 25., N.S.W. ; 3s. Bd., Inter-State.
PLAIN BLACKWOOD ...2s set.
SUPERIOR ASH
ASH, Brass Tops, Steel Shod ...
ASH, Revolving Tops, Steel Shod
HICKORY, Brass Tops, Steel Shod
... 3s, 3s 9d set.
5s 9d, 7s 9d, 8s 6d set.
... 10s 6d set.
16s 6d set.
MEN’S LEGr GUARDS
Strong White Twill ... ... ...4s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Continuous Straps ...6s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Vent., Continuous Straps.. 8s 6d pair.
Tan Leather, Skeleton, Continuous Straps
10s 6d pair.
Best Quality Gojd Cape...l2s Cd, 13s 6d, 16s 6d pair.
Postage on 1 pair Pads, Is, N.S.W. ; 1/8, Inter-State.
BATTING GLOVES
Featherweight ... ... ... 4s 6d pair.
Chamois, Tubular Rubber...ss 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d pair.
Surry Shields ... ... ... ... 4s each.
Postage on one pair Gloves, 4d pair.
.
Leather Balls
(s£oz.)
“ M.S.” Special Gut Sewn,
4s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each.
Specially suited for Matting
Wickets.
DUKE’S ... 5s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each
SPECIAL SIX SEAM PRACTICE
BALLS-
Is, Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d. extra.
Cricket Bags
Strong Canvas, Double Ended (leather), 14s 6d each.
Postage Is. 9d., N.S.W. ; 3s. 2d., Inter-Stace.
Men’s Gauntlets
Tan or Drab Ventilated ... ... 5s pair
Gold Cape, Ventilated ... ... 6s 6d, 8s 6d pair
White Kid, Ventilated ... ... ••• 7s Cd pair
Buff Chamois, Rubber Palm ... 7s Cd pair
Gold Cape, Rubber Palm ... 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d pair
All England Special ... ... ... Us pair
The “Lilley” ... ... ... ... 14s pair
Postage on pair, 4d.
Cricket Hets
Complete S. Tarred, 18 x 6ft. ... 13a fid each
42 x 6ft. ... 27s fid each
42 x Bft. ... 35s each
Cricket Mats
Full Size Double Wickets, in two pieces, 6ft.
wide, green color—
£3 10s, £4, £5.
80/s’ Bats
Size —1
Solid Handle, Plain ... ... 9d.
Solid Handle, Polished ... ... Is.
Half Cane Handle
All Cane Handle
All Cane Handle, Selected
Postage on one Bat, Is.,
N.S.W. ; Is. Bd. Interstate.
Boys’ Cricket Balls
Leather, Six Seam, la., Is. 6d. each.
Composition, 3d., Gd., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., Is. Bd.,
2s. 3d. each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d.
Boys’ Gauntlets
Chamois or Tan, Ventilated, 3s. 6d. pair.
Gold Cape, Ventilated. 6s. 6d, pair.
Postage on one pair Gauntlets, 4d.
Scoring Books
1 Pocket Size (Postage 3d.), 6d., Is. each.
2 Full Size (Postage 3d.), Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d.
each.
Bat Handle Covers
1 Plain Rubber (Postage Id.), Is., Is. 3d.,
Is. 6d. each.
2 Pure Black Para Rubber, Is. 3d., Is. 9d. each.
3 Red Rubber (Fancy Patterns), Is. 6d. each.
4 Red Rubber (to Bind on Handle), Cafferay’s
Patent, Is. 9d. each.
Boys’ Leg Guards
Strong Canvas, continuous Straps, 4s. 6d. pair.
Tan Leather ~ ~ 55., 6s. 6d. ~
Postage on one pair Guards, Is., N.S.W.;
Is. Bd., Interstate.
Boys’ Stumps
Polished, with Bails, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., 25.,
2s. 6d. set.
Postage on first three sets, 9d., N.S.W.; Is. 2d.,
Interstate ; on last three sets, Is. 3d.,
N.S.W. ; 2s. 2d., Interstate,
Cricket Sundries
1 Ash Bails (Set of Four), (Post. 2d.), 9d. set.
2 Lignum Bails (Set of Four), Post 2d.) Is. 6d.
set
3 Rubber Bails (Post. 4d.), 2s. 6d. set.
4 Steel Shoes for Stumps (Post. 4d.), Is. 3d. set.
5 Bat Binding Twine (Post 2d.), Is. Gd., 2s. 6d.
ball.
6 Boot Spikes, on Card (Post Id.), Is. card.
7 Boot Screw Nails, on Card (Post Id.), 6d.
card.
8 Wicket Regulator (Horn and Parr’s), 2s. 6d.
each.
9 Bat Oil, specially prepared (Post. Is. extra),
lOd. bottle.
10 Book on Cricket (Post. Id.), 6d. each.
Illustrated Fishing- Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
GUNS and RIFLES.
itflfirt&fc
The “Bullscye” Rifle, 22
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington actios
stock, open sights, weight about 3Jlb.
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
Calibre,
, walnut
The Celebrated
“MAINE
RIFLE
: TfTf=r^fr
m
"THE MAINE"
/P/f/e
<£h&u//ng G/ f/O Apsrt.
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Bluea Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges*
Wmirhf. 9.41 h °
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2Jlb
Postage : N.S. W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 291b.
v . Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d. .
N.s\y. °s n 6df I^rsk N te W 2fgd e1 .’ 22 CaIibre ; RF - 20in - bar rel, weight SJlb. Postage-
13s 6d
18s 6d
16s Od
Winchester
1904
Model*
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
• , Model, for 22' short or long rim fire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
of *>• °-r all 37Jin., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
v ' ' vei = flt about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d «/i _
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State). 24S
Stevens’
Little
Kragr.
w S X e on®’ S , S- “ Li * tl « Kra S>” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel
barrel, 20m. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard peen
sight, with V sight if required 6d extra, length over aJI 36m
weight about 3£lb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S. VV. ;2s 8d Inter-State).
round
21s
'&£24!f
■ -■
fln
eyVs
Stevens’ “Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
3s 2 2d*Inter State) 1 * ° PeQ fr ° nfc sighfcs * weight 4 i lb * (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W.;
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight onen
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d S . ’ P "
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.B. B. L,
Gun
S 3
mm
m
; S&k
MICK BIMMONS
I-ESTOSM, DALY CO. S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d :
Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W.,2s9d; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
SNOIAIIAIIS
MOllrtl
THE GLOBE
D ’n’* w 12 i )r (^i au °. e ’ to P lever > fcwisfc barrels, extension rib, rebounding* locks,left choke, patent -
v. & h,. tore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postag-e, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2. 40S
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
:
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding: Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side ' lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; os 2d Inter-State
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MU3T ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


m
sa
fgHnicalf^l
Experiences
Genera!
1 * Diseases
by the
FR.tti.MANt WALLACE.
'JidmHrfail * SurjiulUthtt
CONSULTING STAFF
DISEASES OF MEN .
We make a Speciality of Diseases of Men, as this book
will tell you. We cure Rupture, Varicocele, Prostatic
Gland Ailments, Cystitis, Contagious Blood Disorders,
Lost Strength in Men, or Weakness, and other wasting
diseases. ...
We have several expert Specialists who are paid high
salaries in order to treat you. Come personally if you
can ; if you cannot call, write fully the nature and
symptoms of your ailment; a quick and certain cure is
always possible by our perfect Correspondence System.
A man may be treated in his own house by this method
as well as if he visited the Specialists personally. We
make no charge for friendly talks. Read our testimonies.
They prove our skill and honesty, and guarantee our
reliability in intricate medical cases.
After all the evidence contained in this book, can you
doubt our ability to cure you ? Find out all about us, if
you have the slightest doubt, we will give you any proof
of the efficacy of our wonderful healing treatment.
CORRESPONDENCE. —All letters sent to the Insti-
tute are replied to promptly, and supervised by Dr.
WALLACE, L.R.C.S., E., L.R.C.P., E„ L.M., our
Physician-in-Chief, who is registered by Medical Boards
of Australian States and England. He is an Expert in
the treatment of Men’s Serious Disorders, and one of a
Staff of Specialists always at the Institute.
(Mention this paper when writing.)
THIS BOOK CONTAINS 750 PAGES, 31 CHAPTERS,
150 MEDICAL ILLUSTRATIONS, 150 RECIPES.
A.ND WOMEN. You don’t meet an offer like this every day. Your chance to re-
ceive, free of any charge whatever, a 750 page Medical Work, beautifully illustrated, full to the covers
of useful information is remote. But you have it to-day, or for 14 days after this advertisement is
published. It is a genuine Medical Work; no “have” or “take-down.” It is known throughout
the Commonwealth as a Standard Medical Volume for its honest treatment of medical affairs, with which all
persons should be familiar; for its helpfulness in human life, its entertaining articles, which are of considerable
importance to men and women residing in remote country parts, far from medical aid. Its abundant wealth of
medical literature provides a common bond of interest, and a never-failing source of instruction and information
for all family circles. Thousands of well-known men and women throughout the Commonwealth have written
for this book, and are still writing. Its illustrations afford a keen insight into the study of anatomy,
physiology, and pathology. It is given away FREE, in the interests of education and suffering humanity.
Why 1 Because the Specialists of
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute
are the only Specialists practising in Australia, with a world-wide reputation and the largest Australian practice,
that can afford to GIVE AWAY FREE such a genuine Health Adviser. Their’s is the only Medical
tute in Australia that employs Four Legally-Qualified Specialists,
Sinci Experts in the cure of MEN’S SPECIFIC DISORDERS, all of whom may be consulted
FREE upon all matters of serious import to a Man. This book instructs men concerning the wonderful Electro-
Medical methods of the Freeman and Wallace Specialists, how so many remarkable cures are made, and how
men may be treated in their own homes, and be cured as well as if they personally visited the Specialists in
person. Write for this book, whether in the country or not; you cannot afford to be without it.
EVERY NEW SUBSCRIBER who sends in the Coupon
opposite will receive this book Post Free by return mail, or, if
the applications are extensive, within a few days at least. Bear
in mind, this is no advertising pamphlet; it is no “ HAVE ” ;
it is a book that has cost the Specialists of the Institute
thousands of pounds for compilation and publication. An
edition of twenty-five thousand volumes is at present in the
press. Every line of it has been supervised by eminent King’s
Counsel, and it has been granted transmission by the Federal
Post-offices of Australia, New Zealand, and Tasmania, as a
clean medical work. Although it is considered “clean” in a
medical sense, yet the Public are here informed that the
Diseases from which men suffer are by no means neglected by
the Institute. Fill in your name and address plainly in this
Coupon, and write to us. By return mail your volume will be
sent you ABSOLUTELY FREE.
The
P, And at MELBOURNE.
Name, Mr., Mrs., or Miss...
Address...
This Great Medical Treatise contains these chapters
This accurately-recorded list of 31 chapters and
the subjects dealt with therein will give the reader
an insight into the value of this book. Each
chapter is anatomically illustrated, there being no
fewer than 150 Medical Subjects ; and 30 full-page
Medical Plates are interspersed throughout the
work. They refer to medical subjects and to
various Branches and Departments of thelnstitute.
They are of the hightest standard of excellence.
In addition to these chapters, showing the subjects
treated, there are articles upon Snakebite, Sun-
stroke, Gunshot Wounds, Poison and Antidotes,
Insomnia, Treatment of Burns and Scalds, Rescue
of Apparently Drowned, Fevers, Epilepsy, Care
of Children, Electric Bathing for Cure
of Nerve Diseases, Poisoned Wounds,
with an included list of 50 valuable
Medical Recipes and a Vocabulary of
one thousand Medical Terms. The
chapter on “ Anatomy ” in this work
alone comprises 43 pages. Do not
miss your chance. Send it at once.
You would not throw away an Ounce
of Gold, neither should you discard
the Pearls of Wisdom. Knowledge
is always a weighty argument.
LIST OF 31 CHAPTERS,
CHAPTER 1... Anatomy.
CHAP. II Heart Diseases.
CHAP. 11l Lung Affections.
CHAP. IV Brain Diseases.
CHAP. V Spine Disorders.
CHAP. VI Biadder Diseases.
CHAP. VII Liver Diseases.
CHAP. V 111... Nerve Affections.
CHAP. IX Stomach Diseases.
CHAP. X Kidney Diseases.
CHAP. XI Fevers.
CHAP. XII Abscess.
CHAP. X 111... Ear Diseases.
CHAP. XIV ... Alcoholism.
CHAP. XV Varicose Veins.
CHAP. XVI... Skin Diseases.
CHAP. XVII Wounds.
CHAP. XVIII Digestion.
CHAP. XIX On Sleep.
CHAP. XX Exercise.
CHAP. XXI Old Age.
CHAP. XXII Marriage.
CHAP. XXIII The Microscope.
CHAP. XXIV Rupture.
CHAP. XXV Fractures.
CHAP. XXVI False Delays.
CHAP. XXV11.... Quackery.
CHAP. XXVIII.. Blood Diseases.
CHAP. XXIX Cancer.
CHAP. XXX General Diseases.
CHAP. XXXI Electricity and
Medicine.
Each Chapter is illustrated with Excellent Plates
pertaining to the Medical Subjects
to which they relate.
There is no Time like the Present. Write TO-DAY.
DEPARTMENT of WOMEN in charge of DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D.. Registered
by MEDICAL BOARDS of Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand.
NEARLY EVERY JOURNAL IN AUSTRALIA. HAS COMMENTED
FAVORABLY ON THIS BOOK.
THE
n
ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney, «■* -ox*-"-
Howard Freeman, Director
Dr. Wallace, Pliysician-in-Chief
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Diseases of Women
Dr. F. Bell, Lecturer to the Institutes.
Also A LARGE STAFF OF EXPERTS.


“I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
lifer’s
'Cherry federal
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE
CURSE
OF
DRINK
TOBACCO AND DRUG HABIT.
permanently cured at patient’s own home, volun-
tarily or secretly. Sure, safe, and effective. Recom-
mended by the Medical Profession, Clergy, and
Temperance Societies. No detention from daily
routine work. Write or call for full particulars,
given FREE and Strictly Confidential, or mailed in
plain sealed envelope, post paid. 2
The “ANALEPTIC ” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S. W.
THE LAST OF SIX
(Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Price 6d. Post Free.
Many a mother knows
quite well the
Banger
of feeding her baby by
hand. Yet she is obliged to do it.
but the danger need not be so great
after all. Thoughtful modern mothers
make up for the deficiencies of artificial
food by giving Scott’s Emulsion of cod
liver oil and hypophosphites of lime
and soda. The mineral properties con-
tained in this well-tried food-medicine
are just those which wise nature herself
provides in the
Milk
of the mother’s breast.
Consequently, babies fed on Scott’s
Emulsion grow straight, strong bones,
covered with fine, healthy flesh.
Then the mother is spared the agony of
seeing her darling fade and wither,
as so many do, from rickets, the
scourge of babies.
Penneger Street, Broadford, Victoria,
October 12, 1904. “My son, Samuel
John, aged nine years suffered severely
from rickets. At last I gave Scott’s
Emulsion and from the first bottle he
began to improve. In a little while he
was able to run about and play, which
be was quite unable to do previously. He
bas gained considerably in weight and is
quite well again.” (Mrs.) Jane Hamilton.
s ' K 9erkdion
to which the original
Scott process of manufacture has been
Always gtt the Emul-
sion with this mark -the
tfifihraan— the mark of
tbo "Scott” process!
brought makes Scott’s
Emulsion by far the
safest and surest emul-
sion for rickets.
Begin in time by send-
ing to-day for a free
trial bottle (enclosing
4d. for postage and
mentioning this pa-
per). Scott Si Bowne,
Etd., 483 Kent Street,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Spring “Pome.”
Last night there came upon the breeze a rich and
rare perfume
That told of creepered trellises and wattle dells in
bloom,
Of buttercups and daisies nodding gaily in the
grass—
As though to give a welcome to the lovers as they
pass.
It floated, memory-laden, till the truth was
sweetly plain
That love, and kiss, and blossom-time had come
to earth again.
It told of past years’ strollings, through the dreamy
afternoons,
By pathways, primrose-bordered, close beside the
deep lagoons ;
Of moonlit walks together (and how many walks
we had
When Heaven up above us seemed a planet
promenade);
Of world-old vows and kisses when the night was
lone and late,
And a pair of happy lovers were caressing at the
gate !
But we parted in the winter, and now, mated in
the spring,
The little birds are chirping “ Why this foolish
quarrelling ?
Why don’t you wed and settle down and leave
your hearts at rest ? ”
What fools are we—it seems to me the little birds
know best!
But now she’s got another chap, and I another girl
As though to show the ebb and flow of Love’s
amazing whirl !
And Time goes rolling past us leaving nothirg
much behind
Save here and there some little thing to prove
that we were blind ;
Some little tokens scattered in the shadow and
the sheen
To emphasise the spectres of the joys that might
have been.
So we live, and love, and wander on a vague un-
charted quest—
Yes, after all, it seems to me the little birds know
best!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
A Woman’s Vision.
The weary round of the day was done ;
Between the rising and setting sun
She had swept and dusted and baked and brewed,
She had cooked three meals, had knitted and
sewed.
The “ Mother’s Circle” had claimed its hour,
She had talked at length on “ A Woman’s Dower,”
She had read a paper, “A Plea for Praise.”
And prosed abstrusely on “Length of Days.”
’Twas done and over ; she sat alone,
With just ten minutes to call her own,;
The house was still and the fire burned low.
“There is nothing,” she whispered, “to do or
know.
I’ll fold my hands and I’ll shut my eyes
And leave the world to the strong and wise;
To what Fate orders I’ll bow my head
If rest may only be mine,” she said.
Scarce had she uttered this plea, when, lo !
Tall of stature she seemed to grow,
Faith re-kindled, its joy and grace
Touched into beauty her form and face.
She felt the grasp of a friendly hand,
A voice said : “ Welcome to Leisure Land ! ”
And there beside her a Presence stood,
The shining shape of the Ever Good.
“ We heard your voice through the wastes of
Space,”
The Phantom spoke, “in this heavenly place.
We willed you here where the pure and blest
Through endless aeons know naught but rest.
You breathe and are nourished on richest fare,
You are borne at will on the balmy air ;
Your garments, white as the spotless snow,
No change of fashion shall ever know.
Here naught shall vex you with vain regret;
No cares, no follies you’d fain forget,
No aims, no efforts, no useless strife,
Nor aught that troubled your earthly life.
The day eternal with quenchless light
Shall know no shadow nor lowering night;
No storm shall gather, no tempest beat
Where flowers unfading breathe odors sweet.”
The ages passed as the hours—in sleep—
In calm unbroken, unchanged and deep.
She felt no sorrow, she knew no pain,
Nor hope, nor longing, nor strivings vain.
But her sated spirit was roused at last,
And yearned for the trials outworn and past,
The mortal worries she once had known,
The peace and portion that were her own.
“ Oh, my beloved, to hear you speak,”
She sighed. “If only * The coffee’s weak,
The steak is tough, and the bread, I see,
Is not so good as it used to be.’
I will not murmur whate’er befall,
Nor go complaining at Duty’s call;
I’ll be contented and shirk no task,
Nor ever again for a respite ask.
How could I dream that a life like this,
Dull and leaden, were perfect bliss ?
Oh, for the world, and to be alive ! ”
She woke rejoiced, and—the clock struck five.
N.S.W.
E. MANNERS.
dr\
irish
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
r
REET-T
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED
OUR FAMOUS
BIG BLOCK SUITS,
Made to Measure. In
All-Wool Tweeds
401-
and Pure Indigo
Serges.
TROUSERS ONLY, 12s. Gd.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE COMMONWEALTH
pagr- SEND FOR PATTERNS.
•'THE 810
BLOCK,”
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE
SPECIAL VALUE,
BLACK, CREAM, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
From the Farms of Africa.
Length, 9 inches.
3 for 6/-
(Six Shillings).
*
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for
■vice the money in any other house.
Send Money Order payable to John Miller.
6$
OSTRICH
PLUMES.
BLACK, WHITE,
CREAM,
NATURAL, or
BLACK Tipped with
WHITE.
Length, 15 inches.
7/0
Post
Free.
The Best Feathers for the price in Australia.
Send a trial order to-day. Illustrated
Price List Post Free.
ILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pm STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Comer of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
This writer seems to start in a serious and accu-
rate spirit and then tail off into frivolity :
One of the most amusing side-issues in connection with
the Gambling Bill now before Vic. Legislature is the howl
of complaint which has gone up from those connected with
the suburban pony-meetings. There are hundreds of these
ridiculous meetings, scarcely a day in the week being free
from them ; and the new law, by cutting them down to
16 days per course for the year, will just about burst
them all up. And, of course, this would be the best
thing that could happen, and would in itself justify the
Bill. Even under the “ new management,” these meet-
ings are mostly patronised by sharpers, spielers
and fly-flats, all “ on the make,” and it is a case of dog
eating dog all round. But the “owners, trainers, and
jockeys, and others interested,” held a meeting, a few
days ago, and poured out a flood of complaint about their
“ means of livelihood ” being taken away from them.
The cabbies who drag the bloated patrons of the courses
to and fro, the. corn-stores which supply the mokes with
feed, the blacksmith who shoes the neddy when she isn’t
after it, and all the rest, were invited to' attend a huge
demonstration against the Bill. No notice, however, was
given to the employers whose tills suffer from the pecula-
tion of the tribe of office-boys and clerks that waste their
own (and their bosses’) bobs in trying to find the winner
amongst a crowd of stiffs. This meeting, however, was
only one of several. A meeting of the supporters of
private totes is to follow. There will be a parade in con-
nection with this one, and in the lead there is to be a
banner with “A Tote in Everybody’s own Yard” in-
scribed on it. Another meeting will advocate “ the
sacred right to live without working,” which the Gam-
bling Bill makes a serious attack upon. When these
meetings are over, there is to be a big “ rally” by the
magsmen, three-card men, thimble-and-pea operators,
and confidence men, who will be vitally affected should
the disastrous measure become law. In the rush of all
the above deserving citizens, the claims of the tick-
tackers, the tip-sellers, and the bustlers, whose sole
living is “ the meetings,” have so far been overlooked;
but no doubt they will come along with an indignation
meeting later on. If they don’t get justice I will begin
to have a suspicion that the country isn’t as free as the
poets say it is, and that there is something in Tom Mann’s
chains and shackles, after all.
“Hamer” : The West Coast of Maoriland
staggers with the weight of the aristocratic
people who are unsettled there. The first lordling
I met was a tall man with a red nose, who wore a
sack, coal-heaver fashion, to keep off the rain
that is always falling in Westland. He was
correspondent for some M.L. journals (so a dirty
card informed me), and the younger son of the
Duke of Somewhere (so he told me himself).
When he had found out that I was one of the
Hamers of Mud-upon-Hopberry, he permitted me
to shout him a drink; but I believe he would
have permitted me to shout him a drink in any
case. After that he introduced me to various
noble people in the vicinity, all very proud of
their connections, and all very thirsty. I got so
used to meeting the younger brothers of titles on
the West Coast that I took it for granted that
every stranger I met bore a Burke’s Beerage
name. All these amiable persons informed me
that they had been exiled on account of their
spirit. The spirit was nearly always whisky.
“E.H.W.” : I don’t know whether your
readers have any idea of the extraordinary vitality
of the blowfly. Recently, in a survey camp up
north of Auckland (M.L.), we were nearly anni-
hilated by this pest. Returning from work one
evening we discovered a whole cloud of them
buzzing furiously inside a partially-filled sugar-
tin. We first filled the tin with water, and, when
we thought they were all drowned, made an
excavation in the hot embers of the camp fire, and
threw the lot in, covering them up. Forgot all
about them after this, until one of us happened
to rake the charcoal up about half-an-hour later.
Quite a number of the flies struggled through the
burning ashes and flew off, still buzzing.
By
Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty the
Kino and
Koyal Family.
IP YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR "
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
It is Replacing All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LIHITED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
H
the high-class WASHING MATERIAL
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO EEND
On Security o-f Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Propert es, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pas oral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury ''ills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. It. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teeee, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Curas While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
MB DISTBESSUB COUGHS IN Y6OE6 MB OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Vapo-Cresolene complete 7-6 $ Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6$ 4 oz., 2-3$ 2 oz. 5 1-3.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY. LTD.
1
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOUR PENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
l.td.
SYDNE Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN,
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFBTITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewea’y, SITDNBir.
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom-
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINS STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,'50
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
L'RMSTON GRANGE 5,000
I.ANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10.000
HLSTREE GRANGE 6,000
KOYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON ORANGE 6,31)0
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,330
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, .Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, applv at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
i-> p ;l |] .Mail, s.w., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cujo, Buenos
Aires. 440 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Oifiee: 140 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Nature’s Owu Food
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh MilK
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steah.
TRY
w
6^
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
U-M.C. NEW GLU
S jv*! V' - v**
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
J
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— ’See Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT MIX' Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON. ENG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
M,
There's SECURITY In
BARTER'S
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
S FURRED TONGUE.
}
' INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dos*. Small Price.
tv, TOUCH the LIVER
Be Sure they are


The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and Evening
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co.. Manchester, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Xovelti.es
Madame Panza,
Box 913 1 G.P.O. m SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
ij?§
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOlJT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars tree. Address —
J AS. CR A I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne
tir
Many of the
COMMONWEALTH'S
sturdy sons and daughters owe their
good health and splendid physique to the
strength-giving - and nourishing properties ci
CADBURY’S
“ ELV COCOA.
A pure liquid food which gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system,
and which cm be absorbed with litr e
digestive effort. Invaluable for young
and old at all times and seasons.
“ The Standard of highest
purity.” —The Lancet .
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious AfEections.
DINNEfORDS
MAGNESIA
mammmmm
The Physician’s '
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
SORE
SINGLETOM'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EVES, BLIGHT, AUD
RESTCRES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLED,
(Nj EVER FAI LG.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book :
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
■&A *
b
0
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England
Agents Ellsoti Bros., Sydney; FcTjon, Grimwa.de & Co., Melbourne
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgerts.
■oo^^gooo.
; m j i l l
.1 1 i.
\
d%
01
GET BACK YOUR VIGOUR!
ry\D it ever occur to you that Nature intended that you shoulc
be of full normal vigor ? Of course you have lost it, that h
probably your own fault, but it is also your own fault if you do no !
recover it. Suppose you lost a horse, a cow, or your watch, and then
was a strong possibility of your being able to regain your property, woult
you not make the effort ? Indeed you would ! Is not your health wort!
as much to you as any of your personal effects ? And will you not makt
the effort necessary to recover it ?
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
is made for sufferers who are making a real effort to regain their health. It is a
natural remedy. . . You are weak and run down ; your organs have not
sufficient nerve life to enable them to carry on their functions. The nerve life is
animal electricity, and you cannot recover until you regain it. Our Belt gives it to you ! It
rejuvenates the nerves and tissues, vitalizes the circulation, and cures all sufferers from General
Debility, Nervousness, Weakness —the consequence of any contracted disease which affects the
tract of the kidneys and bladder, Lost Vigor, Kidney and Stomach Troubles, Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak Back, Insomnia, Indigestion and Constipation.
Cures are the Real Proof. . . . Read these grateful letters.
Do not fail to
get and read
our grand . .
HEALTH
BOOK !
See COUPON
below.
Debilitated Nerves.
37 Dyer-street, Perth, W.A.
The Dr. McLaugiilix Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have been wearing your High-
Grade Electric Belt for the last two months, and
I am pleased to say that I have received very
great benefit from its use. I will be pleased to
recommend it to anyone suffering from Nervous
Troubles, as I have done for some years past.
Yours truly,
ANNIE ROBSON.
1-5-6
William-street, Singleton, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—For years I suffered with a bad
back, and though I tried many doctors, both here
and at Sydney, they all failed to give me any
permanent relief. At last I got your Belt, and
in a few weeks found great relief, so I persevered
until I was thoroughly cured. Before this I was
so bad that I could not straighten up. I consider
that your Belt is the only rational cure for com-
plaints such as mine.
Yours sincerely, W. TRUNDLE.
Consultation Free.
Book
Every Sufferer should
read our Grand Health
Book. It tells you what
you want to know about
your complaint, and how
we cured the other fellow
who had the same trouble.
Fill in the attached Coupon and post
it to us to-day. We will send you the Book hv return mail. It is pro-
fusely illustrated, and gives the prices of our different Belts.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
Call and consult our Specialist. He will advhe you, free of charge,
and will give you a free test of the Belt. Ko fees of any kind.
Hours—9 a.m. to 6. Open Wednesday and Saturday evenings.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON,
The dr. McLaughlin co„
100 W. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me your Free Book as advertised.
(Name)
(Address)
Bui,. iB/10/ V O6.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
ihesenseof taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S ME Dl CATO If Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, Ea Grippe, etc!
Price,complete with 4 mouths’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 22i>-231 Colims-st., Melbourne.
*
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. For FREE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EIICRASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
ASK, FOf\
JISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
AND REFUSE
[ SUBSTITUTESJ
TEN OATS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.iO to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or i lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
acked and Delivered Free
o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
all makes,
good a* new,
Second-Hand Cycles
£1 to £2ml(t
Great factory clearance
EAR 4 a CYCLE
sale at ha'f factory price*.
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan'edineach district. Large profits easily ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our »i>ec-o ~ff'er, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, sewing Machines, Phonographs, ire., hoi t price*.
MEAD CYCLE COo Dep\ bsu
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AMD CHICAGO.
L
DEAFNESS
“The Electricon.”
A miniature T>erlco
f<»r the EAR—invis-
ible, eas’ly adjusted,
a’d entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousand sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
anil head no ses.
There are but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Writ© for booklet
and testimonials.
THE
L. R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, P. imary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mcuth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
Is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen a'd
?.°\*o es s of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade. ' “
E Y^ yy J ard «.u f A he “ Louls ’’Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
fE anl ij e ? I I a I? e sP e H e< i L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies^
THE “ BRUNSWICK" |GE MACHINE
m
WR
may be classed as a small HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR.
It’s capacity varies from 10 tons of ice to lOlbs., and it
is in its smallest size that its remarkable convenience
for small households is apparent.
Hotels, boarding: houses, butchers, and restaurants
have hitherto had to be contented with an Ice Box and a
few blocks of ice—a wasteful and expensive proceeding;.
With the BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE you have a port-
able cold storage sufficient to keep sweet and sound all
your perishable stock, and, in the smallest size, give you
101 b. of ice per day for actual use as ice as well as
refrigeration—equal to 2001bs. of ice. The whole thing
is run by a little J-horse power motor, and the cost is
very moderate.
THE BRUNSWICK HOUSEHOLD ICE MACHINE
solves for ever the question of cold storage
on a small private scale. Send for Oircular
and further particulars.
BU2ACOTT & CO., Ltd., s .°'° *<><•"<«■ 7& 9 Market St., Sydney.
BOORS. PLAYS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS,
CA TALOGUES
FREE.
ADRIAN <fc CO
(late WILL ANDRADE),
508 George Street, SYDNEY.
■1
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL f
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting: the growth, and giving - lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling - off, try it; if it is thin, try r it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5a ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair gro.v on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURAL/NE
for Kestorinp Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/0; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Col/ins St., Melbourne
Alarming Increase in. Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
\ v, '-.ic'i possesses all the elements that go to rroduce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
"I have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop*
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly."
I/-, 2/6 6-4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
Edwards' "Harlene”
r A —956? 96
Vva High Holborn,
London, w.c.
BEST SHEFfIIU>
S£AW «%tc«
4*o
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES.
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
m
(M:
IS
n
[ffii prnifijj
Refuse
Imitations
Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above,
OSBORNE, GARRETT St Co., London, England.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
'A*
>iai
«*
in
ini
mm i-M
£ixo
;1 ff
if
m
fii
HOTEL
METROFOLE
Opposite Union Club and Twi Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay,
TARIFj: , from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manageb.
ms
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JR WELLER
in the Colonies.
ft Certificate Given With Each Watch.
\6 a9 l 'Sag "
w — l // S* <M\ ->—
l» a ' V\ *992 }r a *3
Nr
ROTHEtHAnS
LONDON
S 3
Estab*
1750.
t
RUBEROID IS SYNONYMOUS
WITH DURABILITY.
If you want your Roof
to last as long as your
house, use
RUBEROID
the kind with the word
RUBEROID stamped
every 4ft. of the roll.
E. Rich & Co., Ltd
Sydney & Brisbane
'■oss
J
m
■l
m
(Some Firms Selling
RUBE.RQID.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Saxton & Binns, Ltd.
John Mclntosh & Sons
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
W. Cary & Sons
Anthony Hordern & Sons
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd.
Grace Bros.
Marcus Clark, Ltd.
J. W. Eaton, Ltd.
Fredk. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle
F. Braund & Co., Armidale
J. F. Utl & Co., Glen Innes
T. J. Treloar & Co., Tamworth
Fred. R. Hall, Cooiamon
E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Bourke & Brewarrina


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1392.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1006.
Phiob 6n.
SECESH.
In Westralia some persons of no account are running what they call a secession movement.
Commonwealth: “ What’s the trouble ? ”
N.S.W. Carruthers: “I’m howlin'because he’s howlin’. He ain’t got no right to howl. This is my howl. He’s been an’ took my grievance. Boo-hoo!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ A ustrttlin /or thr. A ustr<ithtns,"
Printed and Published by*William Maclkoi), of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you, every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
t' l l>e addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would, oblige the paper
(and, to an extent., themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscript ions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the. Editor,
but, to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not. be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not, exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But. no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot, repei’ve attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sendipg MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not, responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Aina tours in ltlaole and While.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
any picture which has to be 're-drawn—wiU be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such, artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson <fe Co., 28 Riebeck Street; Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Breiver and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Long.
Shanghai .—Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
XMAS NUMBER*
We are now booking
Agents* Orders.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1906.
THE SECOND AUSTRALIAN PARLIA-
MENT.
The second Australian Parliament now ended
invites a retrospective glance at its record.
In a sense, it was but a continuation of the first,
and came into existence hampered by the same
party problems as had stood in the way of the
initial National Government. The electors having
seen—and doubtless, as regards many of them, de-
plored—the evils arisingfrom the existence of three
parties of practically equal strength—two of them
with very much the same ends in view, the third
combining all the forces of retrogression and dis-
content (theanti-Federalists, the anti-Australians,
and many other antic sections) —deliberately left
the settlement of the difficulty to Parliament itself.
From the elections of 1903 parties came back
very much the same as before. The voters looked
upon the natural development of events as a
gradual drifting together of the Protectionists
under Deakin and the Laborites under Watson.
The dead Parliament had seen Barton and
Watson standing together on most questions.
Deakin came closer to the ideal of radical Pro-
tection which Watson affirmed than Barton had
done. What more easy than for them to agree
on some platform of mutual concessions and
together advance Australia? That was the
expression of the people’s opinion. The details,
not unreasonably, were left to the two leaders to
settle. Australians wanted Deakin ; they also
wanted Watson. Anti-Australians were unani-
mous in wanting Reid. The interpretation of
the verdict was easy—a Deakin-Watson alliance
holding the Government benches, with Reid in
Opposition.
* * * *
What a pitiful tangle of events prevented this,
Australians generally—or, at any rate, Bulletin
readers—are aware of. After the 1903 elections
Dkakin and Watson were both willing for an
alliance. A satisfactory working basis might
easily have been arranged, but a point in the
Arbitration Bill, then before Parliament, stood in
the way. Watson wished to include State railway
servants in the scope of the Bill. Deakin had
committed himself, whilst a member of the
Barton Government, to the opposite view.
Against this tiny rock split the hopes of a coali-
tion which would have given Australia a stable
and progressive Government, and which still
remains as the only possible Democratic combina-
tion. Deakin formed a Cabinet which only half
represented the popular verdict, and Watson
stood as his supporter until the fateful clause of
the Arbitration Bill, on which they disagreed,
came for discussion. Then Dkakin went out of
office. The action of Reid at this crisis was
characteristic. He had, by this time, abandoned
all hope of attaining to office on a Foreign-trade or
any other anti-Australian issue, and had decided
to trust to chance and intrigue for office. His
Tory supporters he kept to his side by represent-
ing that, even if he dared not be a reactionary, he
at least was preferable to either of the progres-
sive leaders. The Democratic sections of Parlia-
ment he angled after by protesting his innocence
of any desire to interfere with Protection or a
White Australia, and, naturally, he secured some
support among the office-hungry. The arbitra-
tion crisis gave him a chance. He dared not vote
with Watson; that would have alienated his
Tory supporters. But some members of his
party were more favorably circumstanced.
They could safely vote on -Watson’s side,
and, by arrangement with their leader, did so
in sufficient numbers to ensure Deakin’s defeat.
It was as cynical and unscrupulous a bit of “party
politics” as a legislature has eyer seen, for some
of the Riiin-ites who voted with Watson did not
even pretend to believe that he was right. Hap-
pily, Reid was deprived of the prize for which lie
had striven so shamelessly. Deakin, correctly
enough, advised the Governor-General to send for
Watson, and Reid was still left gnashing his
teeth in Opposition.
* * * *
The chance then presented itself of a happy
settlement of all difficulties. Watson was in
power with a mandate from Parliament to shape,
according to his own ideas, the Arbitration Bill
as regards the inclusion of State railway
servants within the range of its benefits. But
he had, on general policy, no better chance
of carrying on without Deakin’s support
than Deakin had had without his. The
obvious way forward was for Watson to
carry on as best he could until the Arbitration
Bill was out of the way, and then for the Dicakin-
Watson alliance to be effected. But Reid,
recovering rapidly from the dismay which the
formation of a Watson Government had caused
him, frustrated that union. His success in doing
so was at once the most extraordinary of political
developments and the most remarkable of his
personal achievements. Every circumstance
pointed to a Deakin-Watson alliance as the only
possible and natural basis of a stable Administra-
tion. The two leaders had a mutual admiration of
one another’s good qualities. They recognised the
practical identity of their aims for the advance-
ment of Australia. They equally understood
that the Reid party represented nothing
but unworthy personal ambitions, disappointed
vanities, political negations and hostility to
the very existence of the Federation. Yet
Reid was able to seduce Deakin away from
his fidelity to the Australian cause and to
win him over to his camp. The misunderstand-
ings, the personal vanities, and the play of cross-
purposes which made this result possible cannot
yet be told of fully, nor the base trick by which
Deakin was finally trapped into what was a
desertion of the national cause. But the final
result was that Reid won to office, included in
his Cabinet those from Deakin’s side who had
always been most anxious to cut Deakin’s throat,
and for a few days of Parliamentary session and
many months of recess he was half Prime Minister
—-M'Lean, an old Victorian Tory of the cattle
persuasion, being the other half.
* * * *
That deplorable development might have put
Australia back for a quarter of a century bad
Reid possessed any capacity for statesmanship to
match his ability at sordid intrigue, or had the
Labor party—Freetraders and Protectionists —not
shown a steadfastness of purpose and a political
wisdom most admirable when compared with the
vacillating counsels and shifting decisions of the
other wing of the Progressive party. But Reid
in office was as foolish a blunderer as Reid in
Opposition had been a crafcy schemer; and the
Labor party refused absolutely to abate one jot
from its attitude of steady hostility. Reid was
content to do nothing to displease that party ;
indeed, prepared to do much to gratify it. His
appeals to the Freetrade Laborites were piteous.
But the Labor party stood firm, and when a
repentant Deakin was ready to admit that he had
made a ghastly mistake in putting Reid in power,
he found Watson’s party, to the last man and the
latest recruit, ready to vote with him to wipe off
the stain. Reid’s dismissal from office was as
contemptuous as his accession had been con-
temptible.
* * * *
But again the natural and healthy development
from the situation was frustrated. Deakin should
have gone back to office with Watson as his
coadjutor, and the two together led a Cabinet
chosen from both parties. Probably, if the
Labor party had been willing, that would
have happened. An unwillingness on its
jiart is easy to explain. Deakin had just
come from the Reid camp, and was expected
to justify himself by his works before there was
talk of a definite union. But, short of actually
sharing the responsibilities of Government, the
Labor party has done all that could be demanded
of it in supporting Deakin during this, his second
term of office. He has been enabled in one session
to carry through a programme which almost equals
in usefulness the whole work of the first Parlia-
ment and the first two sessions of the second
Parliament put together. There have been,
naturally, slight incidents of disagreement; but,
considering all the circumstances, the Labor party
has given a magnificently patriotic support to
a Government in the emoluments of which
it has had no share, and with the per-
sonnel of which it is not in full accord.
Deakin himself would probably be the
first to endorse the judgment that, on the
-whole, the honors of the Parliament rest with
Watson. In Opposition he was scrupulously fair,
honest and above-board. As Prime Minister he
was able, dignified, and possessed of a fine sense
of responsibility. As the unavowed but none the
less real ally of Deakin, he has carried himself
in a delicate position with tact, honesty and
discretion.
* * * *
As for the future, there is little room to doubt
that the third Parliament will repeat the condi-
tions of the first and the second. The Bulletin
believes and hopes that the Reid party will be
reduced in strength. But there is no reason to
hope that it will meet with the destruction it
deserves. There will always be a party oi dis-
content in the Commonwealth. The provinciahsts
who fought Federation still muster strong. Ihe
readjustment of national life must, in the ordinary
course of things, gall many withers. There is
ever a section of the people which, by its narrow-
mindedness and folly, invites the attention of the
demagogue and follows him, whatever his cry be.
Australia must resign itself to seeing Reid return
with, at any rate, a considerable following. The
two other parties will probably come back
again of nearly equal strength, and again will
have to face the problem of union on terms which
will satisfy the followers of both. In a new Par-
liament, with the experience of the old to draw
upon, the solution of the problem should be more
easy. The expiring Parliament has done much
to clear the way. Freetrade, as an Australian
policy, is dead ; Protection is accepted on all
sides. Reid has been shown to be impossible as
a national leader, and stands exposed as an office-
seeker on any terms and on any platform. The
Deakin and Watson parties have been proved to
be so strongly allied by a community of aims, of
friendships and of hatreds as to cohere naturally
and irresistibly. The electors will not settle the
problem of the three parties in December. But
the Parliament which they elect will probably
have a mandate from the nation to effect that pur-
pose —the message of 1903 more clearly repeated.
A PLOT IN THE COAL AND SHIPPING
BUSINESS.
The Newcastle coal-mine owners have fixed up a
“vend,” which is the now way of spelling com-
bine, ring, or commercial conspiracy. To some
extent, they deserve the public’s sympathy. The
Australian Foreign-trade, importing crowd has
had such a mania for dragging manufactured
goods from the far ends of the earth, and insisting
that Australia should be content with growing
wheat and minding cows and sheep, that there is
only a wretched market for coal in Australia.
There is so much easily-got coal in N.S. Wales,
not to mention other States, that the use of it in
manufactures is clearly enough indicated as the
natural industry of the country ; but Reid, Cook
and Co. have persisted in telling Australia to
go to the cow and the sheep, and Australia
could go to the cow and the sheep just as
well if it didn’t have an ounce of coal.
Having, then, no local outlet to speak of
for its coal, Australia has had to struggle for
foreign markets. That is to say, it has had to cart
the bulky mineral great distances, and pay large
sums for freight, and then lay the product down
to compete with other product mined, in many
cases, close at hand and by labor paid at much
lower rates than the Australian miner commands.
It is practically impossible for the Australian
mine-owner to enter into a conspiracy with the
foreign mine-owner not to sell coal at less than a
given price; for such a conspiracy would have to
be almost world-wide. So, in the end, when he
sells coal for foreign use he has to take what he
can get, which is a fraction below what the
foreign owner who works his men the longest
hours for the poorest pay is prepared to sell for ;
and to make up the bulk of his profits he enters
with £he other Australian mine-owners into a con-
spiracy to squeeze the Australian public. That
is the “ vend.”
* * * *
The mine-owners saw that their only practicable
way of maintaining a fictitious price was to limit
the output of coal. To bring that about was a
tough job ; and it has taken the best part of the
current year to do it. But it was done at last—
within certain limits. It might have been done
altogether, and without any limits at all, only
something, as usual, went wrong in connection
with the division of the spoil. With not
enough industries to use up all the coal
that could reasonably be turned out, and with
not enough Protection to allow even the
industries, that there are to pay as much as
should be paid for coal, it became necessary
to allot an output to each mine-owning con-
spirator. Now, if all the conspirators had
been measured up with one rule, all
might have gone well. But there are mine-
owners who have not been quite such enthusiastic
participators in previous small conspiracies as the
general body could have wished. There is, for
instance, a shipping ring, or plot, or whatever it
is called ; and the shipowner and the coal-mine
owner are so much alike that one couldn’t swear
to any difference at all between them. Every time
this shipping conspiracy looks at the difference
between the profits from the northern trade and
those from the south and west, it is sad or angry
or both ; and when the shipowner is sad and
angry, some coal-mine owner is pretty certain to
be sad and angry too. The whole difference
between the northern trade and the southern—
taking Sydney as the datum point—is that the
free air of that competition which is alleged by
these very people, in their ordinary Fatman
capacity, to be the breath and life of business,
blows through the southern and western trade,
while the northern trade is wholly in the hands of
the ring. Not only do the deep-sea vessels carry
cargo from Sydney to Melbourne, Adelaide and
\V estralia, but two ■ or three others, not in the
ring, or plot, or conspiracy, or whatever it is, have
gone into the business ; and certain inter-State car-
riage, for which 14s. used to be got, is now being
done for ss.—to the enormous advantage of,
among others, the shareholders in Broken Hill
mines and the Broken Hill miners. These ship-
owners outside the conspiracy could not have got a
footing if they had been refused coal supplies;
and the owners who did not refuse them coal have
therefore been traitors to the great and glorious
principle of Plot and Squeeze. And it is alleged,
on what looks like very solid grounds, that, in
the allotment of output under the proposed vend
agreement, these traitors were “dealt with.” At
any rate, the Wallsend, the most important of
them—the concern which supplies Scott Fell
and Co., the improper people who made a contract
at unheard-of prices for the sale of 150,000
tons of coal to the Broken Hill mines—drew out
of the negotiations.
• * * *
Probably, however, this particular co. would
have withdrawn in any case. For, not satisfied
with drawing up an agreement to limit the out-
put, the conspirators drew up another, binding
themselves under heavy penalties, money being
actually put up, to supply only four inter-State ship-
ping concerns with coal. Those four are in the
shipping ring. Apart altogether from the Common
Law on the subject—a law under which Australian
working-men unionists have frequently been im-
prisoned for long terms, on charges of conspiracy
in restraint of trade —there is the Commonwealth
Anti-Trust law on this subject. Apparently
recognising that they were skating on the
threshold of gaol, it is stated that this agree-
ment has not been signed ; it is merely under-
stood that the conspirators shall behonorably
and morally bound ” —with the forfeiture of the
deposit in the background, in case their honor
and morals shouldn’t be equal to the strain. This
idea of dodging the law by putting nothing in
writing, or of not signing a document, is so child-
ish that it seems almost incredible ; yet evidently
these gentlemen do think that an agreement is
nothing, and that some black scratches on paper
are everything. Well, there are schools with wigs
and spiked bars attached to teach them better.
* * * *
Meantime, in order to get themselves deeper
into one bog, while trying to get them-
selves out of another, the conspirators must
proceed to knock out those who have refused
to come into the plot and buttress up the
shipping ring. Indeed, unless they are pre-
pared to knock out those non-conspirators, the
conspiracy itself must fizzle out. It is no use
agreeing to starve a man out if you permit some-
body else to feed him. The method relied upon
to prevent this failure of the plot is simple. The
fixed standard price for next year for No. 1 coal is
10s. ;.but the customers of the mine or mines out-
side the conspiracy are to be supplied at whatever
lower price is necessary to attract their business
away from the non-conspiring mines, and the
mine-owners in the plot will put up a fund to
make up the loss to the mines supplying the
coal. That is to say, if a mine sells coal at
Gs. to a customer of a non-conspiring mine, in
order to draw his trade away, and thus ruin or
injure the mine that won’t join in the conspiracy,
the lost 4s. per ton will lie made up to that seller
out of the funds of the conspiracy. This is very
interesting. Under the circumstances any coal-
user who goes direct to any member of the
conspiracy for coal will have to pay 10s. If
he goes to a man who isn’t in the conspiracy,
the conspirators will chase him with an offer
of, perhaps, 7s. per ton. After all, there seems
to be a hole in the plot; and the man or the
company that was going to be starved out will,
for a time at least, be put into a better posi-
tion than ever to compete with the ring. But
the final question is whether the mine-ownet
who isn’t in the conspiracy will get tired of having
his customers seduced from him like that; and
the ship-owner and the other coal-user who isn’t
in the ring will have to consider what will happen
to him if the mine-owner who is now out of the
plot should get tired and go in. It is the case of
the Lithgow Association over again. That con-
cern, having got the trade into its own hands,
squeezed the State, through the railways ; and,
when a competitor appeared, so that it might go
on squeezing, it put in special low rates for coal
at those places where the competitor could supply
the article. It was mainly for trying to prevent
the State being caught in this plot that Chief
Railway Commissioner Oliver was put aside.
There is no shadow of doubt, however, that
Oliver was right. The safety of the railways lay
in maintaining suppliers outside the combine.
And what Oliver tried to do then it is up to the
public to do now. If they want themselves
handed over bodily to a monopoly—to a double
monopoly, in fact—they will play the conspirators’
game; and that game just now is to seduce the
customers from the owners who are not in the
conspiracy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Railway Problem.
The S.M. Herald still bustles along in a feebly
violent sort of way with its campaign for prevent-
ing any Australian being manager of the N.S.W.
railways. At present, and for many years past,
an Australian has been Chief Commissioner, and
the results have been excellent in most respects.
The lines are paying as they never paid before ;
the freight charges are lower than they ever were
before; the standard of comfort steadily im-
proves ; and, in the way of accidents, N.S.W. has
a very good record indeed. But, as already men-
tioned, Chief Commissioner Oliver is an Aus-
tralian, and, in the Herald’s old and diseased
imagination, that fact is fatal. The Herald is
usually a grave and serious publication, but it
becomes dashing and when there
is a chance of pushing an Australian out of his
job to make room for a foreigner, and it
demands with pathetic earnestness that N.S.W.
should take chances, and get some young
man from abroad to bring his fresh and
giddy intellect to bear on £50,000,000 worth
of splendid property, and see if he can’t tinker
it into the scrap-heap. The Herald’s cry
for a young man from abroad almost invariably
winds up with an illustration drawn from the ex-
perience of Victoria with its imported Canadian
Railway Commissioner, the hard-smoking Tait,
and it mixes Tait up curiously with a demand for
reduced goods rates, and always implies that
Tait represents, in its best form, that splendid
American genius which leads to cheap freights,
while Oliver represents dear freights and old
Australian Conservatism. Meanwhile, the Age,
which goes into particulars instead of plunging
about in a sea of loose generalities, keeps publish-
ing complaints like this re the Victorian railways
under the imported management which fills the
Herald with such reverence :
In 1901 there were 3,382,000 tons of goods and live stock
carried on our lines, at a charge of £1,712,000 to the
public. In 1906 the corresponding figures were 3,676,000
tons, at a charge of £2,001,000. That is to say that the
public payment for each ton of goods sent by rail in 1901
was 10s. 1 id. , and in 1906 it was 10s. 10Jd.. . . Among those
having business dealings with the Railway Department it
is quite well known that there has been a rise in freights
since 1901. The figures just given show that, on the
average, this rise is about 9d. in 10s.
Then the Age starts to draw odious comparisons
between Australian management in N.S.W. and
imported American management in Victoria :
Total Charges per Ton per Mile.
Victoria. N.S.W.
Firewood 1.12 d. 0.97 d.
Wheat, grain and flour .. Id. 0.62 d.
Wool 2.86 d. 2.21 d.
Hay, straw and chaff .. .. 1.46 d. 0.56 d.
Here there is unmistakable evidence that the New South
Wales railways are treating the producer much better
than the Victorian are.... If we turn from the main lines
of produce to the total volume of goods traffic On the two
railway systems, we find that the average cnarge per ton
per mile, loading and unloading included, in New South
Wales was 1.32 d. last year. The Victorian report does
not enable this important figure to be given definitely,
but on the basis of the figures supplied to the special
committee in 1901 it can be estimated at nearly 1.7 d.
Here, then, is a contrast in which the Victorian railways
do not appear to be achieving- satisfactory results for
their customers. Even if we exclude the New South
Wales coal traffic, we find that the New South Wales lines
carry all other goods at an average of about 1.4 d. per ton
per mile, and our Victorian charge is 21 per cent, in
excess of this.
And since these figures were published, N.S.W.
has made another big reduction in its charges to
what the Herald always calls “ the producer.”
Then, on top of this, there is a staggering in-
crease in the number of accidents on the Vic-
torian lines, which now manage to kill about
times, and to inj ure about eight times, as many


people as the N.S.W. railways do. The Vic-
torian lines certainlv show a handsome profit (trie
SAL Herald commends the imported manage-
ment for it), but so do the N.S.W. lines (the b.M.
Herald denounces the Australian management
for it), but it seems that the N.S.W. surplus was
made by reducing charges, and the Victorian one
by increasing them, and that the Herald s state-
ments about the extra cheapness of yictorian
rates under foreign management are plain lying,
done in a reckless desire to push an Australian
out of his job at any cost. As a side issue of the
subject, Earp, M.L.C. (of N.S.W.), who recently
returned from America, gave some views to the
Sydney Telegraph -
Take, for instance, as an illustration the journey by the
Overland Limited from Chicago to San Francisco. The
track is so inferior that the jolting and rocking of the
train reminds me of the pitching and rolling on board a
steamer. .. Again, in regard to safety. Three serious
accidents, with loss of life, occurred during my short
stay in America, and I had my reasons for doubting the
effectiveness of the block system. Whilst travelling-
towards San Francisco I was one night standing on the
observation car, when I noticed a very bright light a mile
or two behind us ; and as it so continued for a quarter of
an hour, I concluded it was a train following us. Now, we
were travelling at 50 miles an hour, and it struck me as
very strange that another train should be following at such
a speed. I spoke to the brakeman. He replied: “Oh,
that’s the so-and-so train ; I will stop her for 20 minutes,”
and he lit a kind of a torch, which he threw on the line,
and we saw no more of the train. My doubts about the
effectiveness of the block system on the States’ railways
appear to be justified, as I notice the U.S. Government has
just appointed a commission to inquire into the block
system, as practised on the railways. So far as safety is
concerned, we have nothing to learn from America —on
the contrary, that country has much to learn from us.
Cheapness of construction of tracks and rolling stock,
especially locomotives, which require large sums to be
spent in repairs, appears to me very noticeable.
The S.M. Herald, with its yearning to import
any kind of unknown foreigner from any old
country, no matter how bad that country’s record
may be in the way of railway accidents and rail-
way muddle, seems to have got the loan of Premier
Carruthers’ ear, and between them they will
probably do something that will make N.S.W.
feel very sorry for itself. Neither of them seems
to know how to let well alone.
♦
The Conference of Gigantic State Intellects.
Those large, vigorous, intelligent State politicians
who met together in Melbourne to put everything
right, and show the belated statesmen of the
Commonwealth Exactly How It Should Be Done,
were rather a disappointment after all. Most of
them had complained a great deal at different
times, in a large, superior way, about the failure
of the Australian Government to evolve a satis-
factory scheme for the transfer and consolidation
of the debts, and its neglect to find some method
that would please everybody for dealing with the
surplus when the Braddon clause expires. So
the towering local intellects got together to show
Just How It Should Be Done, and the towering
local intellects dispersed again. They didn’t
agree about a single new idea, and though
they carried a few resolutions regarding small
financial side issues, there was, in every
case, some violent dissenter or dissenters.
They left behind them not a single sug-
gestion of their own that the Australian Govern-
ment can adopt without at least one State
rising to say that it is wronged and outraged and
robbed ; and as the purpose of the meeting was to
show Precisely How To Do It without that kind of
unpleasant friction, the towering local intellects
were of very little assistance after all. The final
proceedings were of a very humble character.
The conference decided (with Westralia dissent-
ing violently in the background) that it couldn’t
do better than accept Australian Treasurer
Forrest’s proposals as the basis of a settlement.
Forrest isn’t reckoned a very brilliant Treasurer,
and he has often been informed of the fact, and
when the conference of huge local intellects could
do no better than accept his ideas —this after
meeting together to show the Commonwealth
Definitely How It Ought To Be Done—it almost
begins to look as if a lot of the grumbling and
the assumption of lofty attitudes about alleged
Federal inefficiency were quite uncalled for. The
conference also decided that there should be
another conference later on to finally arrange all
details. That simply meant that the meeting of
overwhelming local intellects had failed, and that
it put the matter off. Almost anybody can fail
and put the matter off.
The 12| per cent. Protective Freetrader.
I am in favor of a 12J per cent, duty on iron and steel
in order to develop the iron industry.— Hawthorne,
Freetrade and Anti-Sosh candidate for the iron-pro-
ducing constituency of Lithgow (N.S. W.).
Hawthorne, he of the above observation, is a
virulent theoretical Foreign-trader of long-
standing. He was Foreign-trade Whip in
N.S.W. State Parliament, and wore the usual
superior and pitying aspect of the Foreign-trade
person, who is always so sorry for the ignorance
of everybody who thinks for himself instead of
taking Cobden for granted. His present attitude
is just the usual Foreign-trade attitude, and if the
illogicalness of it seems to brand him as a political
hypocrite, or a political liar, or a good deal of a
political ass, these things are too ordinary to be
surprising. Probably Hawthorne doesn’t intend
to be any of the matters enumerated, but he
learned the Freetrade shibboleths in his infancy,
and he repeats them parrot-wise, and never
thinks for himself, except when sudden and
dreadful anxiety about his own constituents
absolutely drives him to thought. Then he
becomes an enthusiastic Protectionist for his own
constituents or prospective constituents. He still
says that Protection is bad all round, so he is in
the curious position of a man who grabs at the
badness with both hands. He alleges that indus-
tries founded on Protection are rotten and un-
stable, and it seems that he wants an unstable
industry, and won’t be happy till he gets it. He
alleges that Freetrade does good to the people,
and, if he believes that, it follows that he doesn’t
want good done to his own constituents —he wants
them damaged. The man who demands Protec-
tion for the industry of his own constituency and
Freetrade elsewhere is a public enemy of great
braying capacity. If he believes that Freetrade
is good, then he is deliberately and maliciously
trying to ruin and demoralise the electorate that
trusts him to do his best in its interests. If he
believes that Protection is good, then he is coldly
and malignantly seeking to undermine and im-
poverish the country outside his own electorate.
Also, he is either telling a silly falsehood when he
says that Freetrade is good in the case of other
people, or he is telling a foolish untruth when he
says Protection is good for his own friends.
His appeal to a little group of people,
when he tells them that he will try to secure for
them, the blessings of Protection, while remaining
in a general way a Freetrader, is an appeal to the
basest and most hog-like instincts of the human
mind. It is an appeal addressed not merely to
human selfishness, hut to that cold streak of
malignity in the human mind that is worse than
selfishness. In effect, it reads like this :
I propose to buy your votes hy sacrificing my alleged
Freetrade convictions. I ask you to secure the blessings
of Protection for yourselves, and damn everybody else.
It won’t do you any good to damn everybody else, but I
ask you to do it all the same. If Protection raises
prices and is bad for the consumer, as I have
often asserted, then our attitude is—We don’t care
whether prices are raised to other people or not, so
long as our industry profits, but we won’t pay increased
prices to help anybody else’s industry ; we only propose
to receive increased prices. But if Protection is good all
round, then we propose to deny its benefits to people in
other industries than our own, out of sheer meanness and
wickedness. Either way we are a hog.
That is the exact attitude of the alleged Free-
trader who favors Protection for his own industry
or his constituency’s industry. There are many
such Freetraders, and they are all ridiculous as
well as revolting. When one of them stands
against an all-round Protectionist, the electors
have the alternative of voting for a man who
advocates Protection because he believes in it, or
a man who advocates it and says he doesn’t
believe in it. They can choose between the man
who supports Protection because he is convinced
it is good for the country, or for the tottering
anomaly who has either been a liar all his
life in saying that Freetrade is good as a
general thing, or is a liar now in say-
ing that Protection is good in one par-
ticular instance. He can’t help being some-
thing of a liar one way or the other. Also, he
can’t help being, one way or the other, a person
who is deliberately setting out to do a gross
and monstrous injury—whether it is to the
one industry that he means to protect, or to
the many that he doesn’t propose to protect, the
injury must be there somewhere. No constitu-
ency that is even threatened with patriotism
or common sense will have any truck with the
Freetrader who offers it the bribe of Protection
for its own little enterprise because Protection is
good for little enterprises and all connected with
them ; and yet insults it by asking it not to worry
about any other enterprises, but just to let the
rest of the country go to the devil.
Defence.
Prime Minister Dkakin has yet to declare the
future policy of his Government in regard to
Defence. That he will, presumably, do when he
first addresses the electors of Ballarat. Meanwhile
a very good forecast of all that he should not say
was lately provided by Defence Minister Play-
ford, speaking to the Senate :
As to the small-arms factory, he had obtained in-
formation that the cost would be £60,000 for machinery
alone. It would turn out 16,000 rifles annually. There
would be 480 men employed. The maximum number of
rifles required would be supplied in two years. What
would have to be done then? Would the men be all
turned off ?. .. It seemed to him better to have at the be-
ginning a factory for making rifle barrels. That would
cost £6BOO, and could turn out 100 rifle barrels a week.
The staff would be 38. If the thing started in some
modest way like that the}' might establish the nucleus of
an arsenal.
Such weak, timorous paltering with the Defence
question almost deserves to be indicted as treason.
It is a matter of reasonable probability that
within the next 10 years Australia will have to
face attack, unless the nature of our defences is
such as to make the enemy clearly see that inva-
sion would be the most desperate of forlorn hopes.
For Australia to continue as it is now, practically
unarmed and unorganised, is to run risks such as
no civilised country has ever run before without
meeting stern punishment. The continent should
have 250,000 trained riflemen and at least
500,000 rifles. It has barely 25,000 soldiers,
for whom there is no certain supply and
practically no stock of rifles. And Defence
Minister Playfobd, when met by a demand
for reform, objects that £OO,OOO is too much
to spend on a rifle factory, and puts forward the
theory that a factory producing 16,000 rifles
annually would supply all our needs in two years!
His idea is, apparently, to make 32,000 rifles —
about enough to see an army of 8000 or 10,000
men through a short campaign—and then sit
down and watch them wear out or become obso-
lete. He seems to think rifles are immortal. If
this senile suggestion represents the Defence
policy of the Ministry—and it is put forward by
the Defence Minister, who ought to speak with
authority—the sooner Australia sees the last of that
Ministry the better for the national safety. But—
so curious istheorganisationof the Affable Cabinet
—it is not necessary to conclude, because Defence
Minister Playfokd declares it, that the Govern-
ment has such foolish and utterly incompetent
ideas. There is no evidence at all that the'
Minister for Defence may not have been running
loose, or tottering on his own hook, or something
like that. The Prime Minister should clear up
the doubt at the earliest possible moment. The
“ nucleus ” of an arsenal never saved any country.
A Government that is not prepared to spend
£60,000 on a rifle factory, as a first step to the
guarding of Australia against attack, invites
destruction. It makes its own destruction the
alternative to the destruction of Australia.
♦
The Party Which Refuses to Defend
Australia.
i
When, through misfortune or stupid government,
a country becomes involved in war, victory does
not necessarily abide with the nation which
possesses the windiest orators. In times of bitter
conflict one case of ammunition is better than a
train-load of adjectives. When a peaceful country
is goaded into warfare it is compelled to shoot.
And the oftener and the more accurately it ex-
plodes its gun the more holes it will make
in its aggressor. But the quantity of the
peaceful country’s shooting depend upon the
amount and description of artillery and ammuni-
tion which it keeps in stock. If its gun is scanty,
and likewise inferior, the peaceful country—be its
cause ever so good—stands a risk of making a meal
for the large and violent nation whose armory is
crammed with the latest and most deadly weapons.
International intervention, in the present state of
the world, is a poor stick to lean upon. If non-com-
batants interfere at all, it is usually to secure a
share of the plunder. Countries which are wise,
no matter how peaceful their policy, accordingly
keep a keen eye upon affairs of defence. They
not only see to it that ships are built and arsenals
are filled with warlike stores ; but they also pro-
vide for the construction of fresh ships and stores
—in case of an unexpected disaster. As modern
battleships are almost entirely built of steel, they
take care that blast furnaces and steel-mills are
set up. If a country contains all the material
necessary for the manufacture of ships and cannon,
and yet refuses to make proper provision for
defence, that country deserves any sort of fate
which may overtake it. Nations are like in-
dividuals. They have their periods of oppor-
tunity, and if they do not make good use thereof,
they must bear the cost. Therefore, any pity
which may be excited by the spectacle of a
nation fooling away its opportunities, as Australia
is now fooling them, is simply wasted. Not pity,
but censure would be more to the purpose. And,
as nothing happens without a cause, it follows
that there must be some prime reason for the
criminal ineptitude thus far displayed by Aus-
tralians in matters of defence. Under latter-day
systems, such matters are properly divorced from
the ambitions of mere kings and queens, and are
entrusted to the delegates of the people. Parlia-
ment is empowered to raise money, and to build
ships, and to establish arsenals, and to take any
other steps which a far-seeing policy may pro-
nounce imperative. If Parliament fails in its
trust, and omits to set the naval and military
affairs of the State in order, then Parliament
is a traitor, and deserves to be gibbetted.
But the Commonwealth Parliament, at any rate,
is what the people make it. Its franchise is such
that here at least the people must take the whole
responsibility for the failure of Parliament. To
deplore the defencelessness of the country, and
then to vote for men whose policy is to keep
Australia defenceless, is simple madness. The
country cannot be adequately defended without
iron and steel works—that may be accepted at
once as positive and absolute. Those, then, who
vote for a party that will not pledge itself to
establish iron and steel works —a party that is
content to import iron and steel—vote for the
continued defencelessness of Australia. They
vote not only for the Freetrade party, but also
for the Free-raid party —the party that will allow
this country to continue exposed to the marauder.
The two cannot be dissociated ; and before an
election, and not after it, is the time for the
country to make up its mind to that effect.
♦
“Puritan” England.
“A. 8.”: I’m an Australian Nationalist and an
Anti-Imperialist with the best of them, but I grow
tired of people who regard England as the home
of the Non-conformist conscience and the origin of
all thesocial gimletism that Australia now endures.
Judkins in London would be smilingly regarded
as the bore he is. Compare Melbourne with
London on a Sunday. In Melbourne all the pubs,
are supposed to be shut. In London they are all
open. The cafes have string bands playing, and
thousands of people sitting round listening. In
Melbourne, Sunday trains, other than church
trains, are an innovation, and pious Premier Bent
is making an attempt to stop them. In England
they are flying all over the country. In Mel-
bourne, the Public Library and Art Gallery were
opened only last year, after 20 years of agita-
tion. In England such places have been open
since the memory of the present generation,
and it would make Judkins throw handsprings
to see the male statues of the British Museum
innocent of the fig leaves with which Australia has
invested the same figures. The stage and the
music hall, in spite of all that has been said about
the Puritanism of the London County Council,
would send the Melbourne Council of Churches
off its pannikin. Never does Australia see cos-
tumes so decollete or hear songs so warm as those
which meet the Londoner everywhere. The
Modern Milo has been showing (that is the
correct word) as the Venus of Velasquez at the
London Pavilion, without protest, for three
months. Would she have lasted two nights
at Melbourne Opera House ? Premier Bent
would have gone to see “ the disgusting spectacle”
and then had it shut down. Boxing is a national
pastime with material far inferior to that of Aus-
tralia, and is the sport of bishops. Here Parlia-
ment has a Bill before it to make it criminal for
two men to spar with pillows. Mixed bathing is
the rule all round the British coast, and in Scot-
land the lads and the lasses bathe in the altogether
a few yards apart. Around Melbourne there is no
mixed bathing, except at points miles away from
Melbourne When J. C. Williamson took over
Hegarty’s baths at St. Kilda for the coming
summer he intended to convert them into a mixed
establishment, but, fearful that a word from
Judkins might spoil the business, has since de-
cided to take no risks. No, there is no Puritanism
about good oM England. Puritanism died with
the Restoration. Give me Australia to live in
every time, but if Judkins has his way, I’m off to
buy a single ticket for the Fog.
♦
A Mine in Korea.
The Monkey’s playful ways stand out in connec-
tion with a new mining law, just adopted for the
benefit of the Korean and himself—himself parti-
cularly. Having fought for the open door in
Korea, he keeps it open—and digs a pit just
inside. Under this new law anybody may take
up mining lands on payment of rent and a royalty
of 1 per cent, of the gross value of the product.
But “as regards applications received on the
same date, permission to mine shall be given to
the applicant whom the Minister may consider to
be most worthy.” So a foreign co. sends engineers
to Korea, prospects, prepares plans, and finally
applies for a mining area. Then, taking the hint,
some Jap nominee lodges an application bearing
the same date—it is wonderful how easy it
is to back-date a document—and the Jap
Minister awards the claim to whom “he
may consider the most worthy.” He seems
to have a habit of always thinking the Jap
applicant most worthy. It is wonderful how
worthy the Jap seems to be. “ You are very
welcome,” says the Monkey. “ You may do any
business you like. Only, having settled your
plans, before you close any deal, you must tell us
all about it. Then, if one of us wants to do the
business and make the profit, we will let the one
do it whom we ' consider most worthy.’ ” It is
such a delightful little scheme for getting chest-
nuts pulled out of the fire. And the Monkey
doesn’t stop there. Supposing the foreigner, in
the absence of competition, gets the mine he has
spent thousands in finding, the Minister may
revoke the permission “when it is discovered that
it was obtained by mistake,” or “ when mining
operations are considered injurious in the public
interest.” And whenever an influential Jap, or
Jap syndicate, or the Jap Government wants the
mine, one of these things is liable to be discovered
—or perhaps both of them. Yes, the door is quite
open in Korea. And so is the pit inside the door.
They are both characteristic of the Monkey.
The High Court.
Ip as suitable men for appointment to the High
Court could have been found outside the ranks of
the Progressive party, Isaacs and Higgins would
almost certainly not now be Judges. The Prime
Minister refused a place on the Bench himself
(and it is a pity that he did so, for Alfred Dicakin
would have made a good Judge, and he makes
a dreadfully Affable politician), and had it
been possible to avoid it he would probably
have given neither Isaacs nor Higgins a chance
to refuse. The departure from politics of these
two stalwart Democrats is a grievous loss, and-
one which it is safe to assume would have been
avoided if possible. But circumstances com-
pelled. It is not the fault of Alfred Deakin or
his Cabinet that the two branches of the Pro-
gressive party —the Protectionists and the Labor-
ites—practically monopolise the high intelligence
of the Commonwealth. An effort was made to
secure for the High Court Chief Justice Way, of
S.A., a Judge altogether outside the sphere of
Federal politics, but Way declined to sacrifice
his ease and comfort in Adelaide. The two
most obviously suitable men were th( n
appointed. To Isaacs, certainly, and possibly to
Higgins, acceptance of judicial office under the
Commonwealth means financial sacrifice. But
they have accepted, and whilst politically Australia
makes a great loss, the Bench makes a great gain.
Justice Isaacs stands in the first rank of acute law-
yers. Justice Higgins, as a leader of the Equity
Bar, brings to the court a special knowledge which
it lacked before. Both have gifts of character
which fit then! to be just and firm Judges. Both,
too, are, in their habits of mind, strongly demo-
cratic ; and the complexion of the Bench before
was rather conservative. The High Court has
already done good work in laying the foundations
of Australian Federal law. With its strength-
ened personnel, it will be able to carry on that
work with even more reliance in the public
confidence.
A Canting Community.
Victoria is at present given over to the apostles
of Cant. The small Judkins, the heavy
and stupid Worrall, the loud-voiced Wood-
ful, the ranting Cornishman Tregear, to-
gether with the parsons of other Protestant
denominations, have been shrieking to the public
and to the electors till public men (and particu-
larly members of Parliament) have become afraid
to express their honest opinion of the canting
humbug which is being screeched. Premier Bent
surrendered to Cant long ago, and framed
laws regarding betting and drinking, which
assume that the yell of the noisy churches
is to have power over the actions of the whole
community. Sensible parsons in the Presbyterian
and Anglican churches, whose private opinion is
that Judkins is an unmitigated little platform
poser and that Worrall is a violent-tongued
dunderhead, have no longer the pluck to stand
out of the tumultuous, hysterical, squealing rush,
and they rave in a way which makes their hard-
headed old friends sick. The union of the
Churches has come to be a union of Cant. There
was never anything worse in the Puritan days of
Nehemiah Praise-God Jones or Habakkuk
Seeking-for-Grace Smith. In every pulpit there
is Cant. Members of Parliament, who play poker
in railway carriages, rise in their places and spout
Cant. The newspaper columns are full of Cant.
Ninety persons in every hundred are on the side
of Reason against the canting few, but in print or
in public, Cant triumphs. Victoria was startled
the other day because a carnival committee
in Castlemaine said it would permit bet-
ting at its sports. The ninety persons
approved, but not nine of theminety would have
dared to take the same action. In the name of
decency, let some of Victoria’s public men stand
up and challenge Cant, and prick the bubble.
Life is becoming a hideous canting burden in Vic-
toria.
♦
“ Hexham ” : If the Italian immigrants whom it
is proposed to import to Westralia can be kept in
the agricultural furrow, as guaranteed, the thing
will be a miracle. The River Plate republics
swarm with hawkers of this nationality—nobody
else has a show. First, on foot with a pack or a
box of mock jewellery ; next, on four legs with a
led horse, whose panniers are stuffed with
draperies ; then, in a tent-waggon ; and, presto,
the following year, Giovanni opens an almacen
in the “ pueblo.” In S. America, eight or nine
years is the average time for the pedlar cater-
pillar to develop into the merchant butterfly.
Here, six or seven years ought to be enough.
True, the Piedmontese and Lombards, from whom
The Priests.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back to the dawn of history, in the Night of
forgotten years,
They rose from amongst the people to prey on the
people’s fears.
On the bended neck of the lowly they fastened
and clamped their yoke,
And ages have passed, but the gird holds fast, and
never a thong hath broke.
The backward path of the years is strewn with a
tangle of out-worn myth,
It is dotted with dogmas of cranky creeds that
craft has juggled with ;
But it matters no whit what weary god yields
claim to the bending skies,
Full sure from the ash of his perished cult, new-
born shall the craft arise
To trade as they traded in elder times (and all
to their worldly gain),
On fears sown deep in the human soul of Death
and its after pain ;
They have nourished the seeds of a souring strife,
and hearts, that else were caught .
Together in bond of kinship fond, o’er a tenet of
faith have fought.
More hearts have broken and more hearts bled,
through the guile of the priestly clan,
Than political war has accounted for since ever
the world began.
They have hallowed unholy things for gain—for
gain they have cursed the true ;
In the name of their Lord they have bared the
sword, and have struck when it paid them to.
Lagging an age behind their age, and the wisdom
that marked its time,
They have dragged on the skirts of advancing
Thought, whatever their day or clime.
They claim known truths as the only truths it is
fit that our minds shall know,
And they say of the paths wherein they tread—
“ Herein it is meet you go;
Or, failing, take care for your soul’s welfare ! It
is ours, as we choose, to blight
Your immortal soul, or to save it whole, in your
own or your God’s despite ! ”
And ever their business sense forbade them hold
small things in scorn,
They lay a claim to the widow’s mite and a tithe
of the people’s corn.
Back of the dawn of history in the Night of
forgotten years,
They rose from amongst the people to prey on the
people’s fears;
And their woven spell has served them well, and
evil it is to break,
For the Priest fights hard in his keen regard for
the Gold and the Power at stake.
MAOIULAND.
SINC. S. CLARK.


the immigrants are to be picked, are more inclined
to agriculture than the Neapolitans and Cala-
brians, but the temptation to desert a toilsome
and a slow road to competence for an easy and
swift path to a “ fortunecita ” will be hard to
resist, even for the Northerners. Not only is the
bulk of the small retail trade of the River Plate,
including fruit selling, wholly in Italian hands,
but the bricklaying and building trades generally,
with the exception of some carpentering, have
been entirely annexed by them.
-+
A letter from Maoriland :
Premier Joseph Ward has pledged himself and Maori-
land to a career of “ sound finance.” Joseph remarked,
in his first Financial Statement, that he would follow the
same policy of progress as his late great chief. Skddon,
but had hardly got the spot of “sound finance” ink off
his pen, before he threatened M.L. with another million
loan with which to shove that progress along. The
Maori Islands have got into the habit of thinking like a
continent, and of spending money borrowed from Bull
with a complacent cheerfulness that indicates the Maori-
lander’s belief that his islands have only got to stay
where they are to grow to the size of several Northern
Territories. M.L. has less than 900,000 people, and these
people owe the Good Old Uncle Land £02,191,040, which
is £2,279,040 more than they owed last year. Optimist
Ward declares, among other things, that he intends to
establish sinking-funds with the object of repaying Bull
the money borrowed to prosecute the Maori war, and for
other commercial purposes The news probably sent a
severe shock through the Islands from Cape Maria Van
Diemen to the Bluff, for M.L. lias never, in the history of
its wild career of dissipation, looked upon borrowed
money as other than money honestly earned. There were
sinking-funds, to be sure, but Seddon’s prevailing
weakness lay in the belief that sinking-funds re-
presented cash available for wild bursts of Govern-
ment building and for quaint streaks of curly railways.
Joseph Ward proposes, while still following the progres-
sive policy of Skddon, to establish sinking funds for the
payment of a pile of bills, the bottom ones of which were
dog-eared in 1870, and are yellow now. M.L. doesn’t
know why its Government land-valuers expand their
views of land-values every year with dreary regularity, or
why the said \aluers accept the highest private estimate
of a seller’s land, and base their district values on that
estimate. Ward’s predecessors knew, and Ward knows,
that an equitable land-values estimate would bring Bull
round with his tail in the air roaring for his
money. Consequently, the cow lands of Taranaki are
considered reasonably cheap at £4O an acre, and building
sites in Wellington are considered not dear at £25 a foot.
The dizzy loan boom does its share to keep up these
alleged values, and the new loan will presumably be
another prop under them. Meanwhile, the big, dizzy
surplus comes along every year, but somehow the surplus
doesn’t diminish the loans worth a cent—in fact, it some-
times looks as if the bigger the dizzy surplus the bigger
the loan.
Here are some records of convictions of Chinese
on the Rand—no account is taken of the numerous
cases where the criminals were not traced :
December, 1905 : 4 of murder; 81, assaults ; 10, “ public
violence ”; 2, damage to property ; 28, housebreaking :
22, theft.
January, 1906: 52 of assault and theft; 10, house-
breaking ; 18, theft.
February, 1906 : 4of murder ; 66, assault; 16, theft;
8, housebreaking.
March, 1906 : 67 of assault; 16, damage to property ;
31, theft ; 9, housebreaking.
April, 1906 : 11 of murder ; 6, attempted murder ; 2,
homicide ; 79, assault; 4, damage to property ; 31, theft;
49, housebreaking.
May, 1906: 6of murder; 52, assault; 21, house-
breaking.
There are less than 50,000 Chinese on the Rand,
so we get these remarkable results : If the white
people of Australia were as criminal as Bruce
Smith’s “peaceful, hard-working Asiatics” the
convictions for murder in Australia would be
about 2500 annually (say seven per day, in-
cluding Sundays), 600 for attempted murder;
200 for homicide ; 39,700 for assault, 12,600 for
housebreaking, and 11,800 for theft. These are
matters of serious crime only, and do not deal
with petty thefts, disorderly conduct, and the
like. If all crime in Australia was on the Chinese
scale the convictions in Australia would average
about 850,000 per annum, being eight times what
they are now. That is Bruce Smith’s “splendid
worker” —the sort of man that Bruce Smith
wants to introduce to Australia ! As a murderer
he seems splendid enough, but he surely can’t
have much time for work, with all that theft,
assault, riot, burglary and butchery to attend to.
♦
“Bloodthirsty” writes:—ln the recent Dr.
Sheridan malpractice trial at Adelaide, Justice
Gordon told the jury:—
Strictly in law the offence was murder. But if they
should be of opinion that accused, as a reasonable man,
could not have expected death to result, they might find
a verdict of manslaughter.
This may be good law, but if it is, it only stresses
the aphorism that the law is a quadruped with
tall ears. It goes without saying that any doctor
who operates to bring about abortion doesn’t
expect the woman’s death —if he did, he wouldn’t
operate, unless he was a mad doctor. He knows
that death is possible, but he trusts to his skill,
and the woman’s recuperative powers, and luck,
to pull things through. But there is one death that
he does expect and deliberately causes—the death
of the unborn child. The killing of the unborn
child is murder, unless in exceptional, justifiable
cases, and the man who does the killing for the
sake of a few pounds is, to put it bluntly, a hired
assassin. If, in the effort to do that killing, he
destroys also the unborn child’s mother—
even though her destruction surprises him
as a reasonable man—he is a double mur-
derer. No country which wants popula-
tion as Australia does can afford to re-
gard double murderers as merely persons
who have committed manslaughter owing to
“ hard luck.”
The Anglican Synod, sitting in Melbourne,
suddenly ceased its duties in pursuit of holiness,
and, putting on an air of great alarm, carried.the
following resolution with some violence :
That while the synod deprecate the discussion of
questions of Imperial or local politics as a part of its pro-
ceedings, yet it considers that the circumstances of the
time are such that it is fitting that, as representing the
Anglican communion in the diocese of Melbourne, this
house should renew emphatically the assurance of its
devoted loyalty to the person and throne of His Majesty
King Edward the Seventh, and to the empire over which
it has pleased God to cause him to reign.
The only justification for this loyal emotion was
offered by Dr. Deeper, who said in a vague way
that “unhappily there were disloyal tendencies
at work.” Plainly, however, the resolution is
only the old familiar “stale fish,” served in a new
sauce. The election campaign is on us, and, of
course, “disloyal tendencies” go with democratic
politics and un-British and ungodly efforts to
exclude our “ feller ” nigger. The church is Tory
and pro-nigger, and any little fiction that will help
on the cause must be regarded as something in the
nature of good works.
♦
In the matter of barracking for Closer Settlement,
the Age has an amazing capacity for missing the
substance and grasping the shadow. It lately
showed that 70,000 acres alongside Bendigo had
been gradually acquired by one man, and this
area was now running sheep, blocking settlement,
and heaping up unearned increment through in-
crease of population around it. So the Age
demanded that Bent should buy this property for
Closer Settlement. All this land was sold by
the State in the seventies for £1 an acre on 20
years’ terms, and was bought by the present
owner at £2 and £3 per acre. To-day it is worth
£5 an acre. It has never been applied to the pur-
pose for which the State sold it, at a cheap rate,
and on such terms as to make the price almost
nominal; and, if it were bought by the State, cut
up, and sold, there would only be the same trouble
over again. By purchase or foreclosure the farms
would drift into one man’s hands, and again there
would be a big estate, only this time the country
would probably have to resume it at £lO an acre
instead of £5. No process of cutting up land for
settlement is of any value without a law that will
keep it cut up. A graduated land-tax, or a
statute like that proposed by Joseph Ward in
Maoriland to rigidly limit the area which one
man can hold, is essential. If David Syme of the
Age would sell his big estate and put the money
in Government securities, then he might take up
an attitude on this matter that would add £5OOO a
year to the value of his paper. But the old man
is bogged by his great landed possessions, and the
Age misses its chance.
♦
About the cheek of State politicians:—
The State politicians, sitting in conference in Mel-
bourne, made a proposition regarding the return of
income from the Commonwealth to the States, which
contained a vast amount of cold, frigid cheek. The Con-
stitution was adopted with a Braddon clause which pro-
vided that, for ten years up to and including 1910, the
Commonwealth should return to the States three-fourths
of the Customs and Excise revenue. After 1910, the
Federal Parliament is left to do as i t pleases. The clause
was howled at vigorously as a “Blot,” but the electors
accepted it. Now it is'proclaimed by the tinpot, local
politician to be a cherished State right. Treasurer John
Forrest has proposed to the States an arrangement which
will give them for another ten years practically the same
income as they have hitherto been receiving. Forrest’s
suggests is that the Commonwealth, between 1910 and
1920, should pay annually to each State a sum equal to
its average receipts under the Braddon clause between
1906 and 1910, with the further generous concession that,
if Customs and Excise revenue jumps between 1910 and
1920, three-fourths of the net receipts in excess of the
average shall be divided among the States according to
population. The States, so Forrest proposes, will get
the average three-fourths whatever happens, and will run
no risk from a Customs or Excise slump in consequence of
u..expected adversity. Also, they may get more; if
everything prospers the States will reap the benefit. But
this did not satisfy the amazing impudence of the local
politicians. They claimed, first, that the average should
be based on the revenues between 1901 and 1910
(a minor point), but further, they demanded that this
concession should be continued after 1920 until the Con-
stitution is altered. Of course that meant that they
wanted the Constitution altered now—it would be
necessary to alter the Constitution now in order to insert
the proviso that it must be altered again sometime after
1920 before the Braddon clause could be abolished. This
proposal, if adopted, would enable the consolidation of
the State debts to be indefinitely postponed, and would
prevent any definite cleaning-up of the financial muddle
for at least 14 years. Generous treatment doesn’t seem
to be good for the State frightsmen. One possible effect
of their effrontery may be that the Federal Parliament
will advise them to go to Gehenna, and will proceed to
settle the financial question, in 1910, on just whatever
terms it pleases. There are slight signs that State
politicians contemplate the anti-Commonwealth squeal
as a settled electioneering policy. In that case, they will
fall into a dark and silent gulf, for the Commonwealth
holds the best end of the stick every time. It has the
greater power, and it has the more democratic suffrage
behind it.
♦
Perth Chamber of Commerce groaned horribly
at its annual meeting over the woes of Westralia
under Federation. Said the President—
There is no doubt that Westralia made a most un-
fortunate mistake in not taking the line of Maoriland,
and standing out of the Federation. There is not the
slightest trace of the Federal spirit towards this State,
nor can I trace a single benefit we have derived.
In fact, all that had happened was that
we have given away the control of our country, and in
return our business people are exploited for the benefit
of eastern merchants and manufacturers.
From the Perth Chamber of Commerce this talk
of exploitation is interesting. Take the first ten
names on its published list of members. One is a
foreign co., exploiting the Westralian forests;
THE BRUTE.
HER : “ You never find me taking a night off because it’s mg birthday
HIM: “ You—a night I Great Scott I you take a year off.”
another a Victorian chemist; two are eastern
banks; five are eastern merchants and manu-
facturers. To the tenth The Bulletin gives
the benefit of a doubt. An analysis of
the other tens would most likely give the
same results. So “ eastern merchants and
manufacturers,” having arrived in Westralia
in great numbers to “exploit” the country, and
having formed themselves into a Chamber in order
to do it more effectively, the Chamber takes an
early opportunity of cursing Federation on a false
charge of doing what the Chamber is doing itself
with both hands.
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “A Sailor’s Knot.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Squaw Man.”
Criterion “The Fatal Wedding.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Edison’s Popular Pictures.
Town Hall Dolores.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Little Stranger.”
Her Majesty's “The Shop Girl.”
Theatre Royal “Fun on the Bristol.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Alexandra Avenue With’s Circus.
Fitzgerald’s Building.. Bostock and Wombwell’s Circus.
♦ :
“A Sailor’s Knot,” revived at Sydney-
Royal, by Bland Holt, on Saturday, is something
off the beat of the average melodrama. Its story
is robust, and not so hackneyed as usual. The
setting —in naval life, about the time of Trafalgar
—gives the opportunity for good scenic and cos-
tume effects; and there is a chance for some stirring
declarations, notably the appeal of Jack Westward
(Walter Baker) to the press-ganged sailors to fight
“for their King and country.” The men have been
captured at a wedding—bridegroom, best man,
and all —and rushed on one of the hulking timber
walls of old England, and their enthusiasm for
the war then being waged on a foundation of cat,
weevily biscuit arid decayed beef can be judged
by the necessity for thus stimulating their patriot-
ism by stirring allusions to George the Lunatic.
They are inclined to blow King George the
Lunatic and his navy, especially as the bridegroom
reckons he has been impressed because the
lieutenant of the ship, Jack Westward, wants to
press his girl. But the point about the girl is
cleared up, eloquence prevails, and the men go
out cheering to the fight. Then follow some
tableaux which are not nearly as successful as
most of the scenic effects at this theatre.
* * * *
“ A Sailor’s Knot ” gives a chance to some
of the Bland Holtians to get out of ruts. Norman
is not a villain but a naval captain, and a very
impressive captain, too. Walter Baker has still
to be a hero, and Miss Ross a heroine with a
changeable habit of matrimonial mind. Charles
Brown becomes villain-in-chief, and Arthur
Styan has a good “character” part in Andre
Delaunay. Mr. and Mrs. Bland Holt have charge
of the comedy department, and get much of the
loud laugh that shows that the mind of the house
is vacant of care, and has forgotten the overdue
rent and the little trouble with the next door
neighbor on the subject of defective fences.
* * sfc *
“The Squaw Man” is still at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), and so firmly fixed that it
looks as though it might have to be grubbed out
or blown away with dynamite. The mummer
who isn’t a star, but knows he [she] could be
(every mummer knows that he [she] could be if
he [she] were given the chance), ought to feel
grateful to the “ Squaw ” piece, and joyful over
its success; for undoubtedly its strong point is,
not so much what Charles Waldron and Miss Ola
Humphrey do, as what half-a-dozen others do
when they are put into the middle of the stage at
odd times—big Bill, Cash Hawkins, the sheriff,
and the old Indian chief in particular.
*# * *
“The Fatal Wedding” is as fatally
attractive as ever at Sydney Criterion. It is like
the “high-roller gent” with the oiled, black
ringlets and the bold, brown eye and the sft.
llin. of brassy physique : to a certain type of
feminine its attractions never fade.
** * *
Mdlle. Dolores, with her smile and her
song, gives three farewell Sydney recitals on the
25th, 27th, and 30th Oct. It is stated that these
will positively be the last opportunities of hearing
the delightful little lady. She leaves Sydney for
Maorilandand Europe, under non-stop conditions,
as if she were a motor reliability race.
** * *
The Chronophone, at the Tivoli, merely
suggests possibilities. All that has been done so
far in wedding the talking machine and the pic-
ture machine is to regulate and harmonise the
speed at which talk and picture are reeled off;
but though the singer opens his mouth at the right
time, even the most credulous couldn’t get himself
to believe that there was any connection between
the orifice and the noise that is supposed to come
out of it. Nothing in the bill is better than
Cassie Walmer’s “impersonations”; this little
born coon’s way of singing coon songs “in the
English style” and “in the American style” is as
clever as the sketch of how the little German girl
jodels. And then, when the audience wants more,
and she can’t give any more because she has
pumped herself out in an amazing feat of endur-
ance in a coon dance, she spoils the recollection
with a little bit of vulgarity. Next Saturday,
when the now tremendously long programme will
see several changes, Sydney gets the first of the
well-recommended Tate sketches.
** * *
“ Edison’s pictures ” still unroll at Sydney
Lyceum and give glimpses of the gentle Yankee
at work and play. \\ hen at play he seems to be
generally hazing a nigger—not exactly roasting
him; that is more than play : it is solid sport with
excursion trains to the scene and advertisements
in the papers—but smoking him out of his hut and
generally treating him with schoolboy brutality.
There are some lessons for a White Australia at
the Lyceum just now.
m * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the second
week of “The Belle of New York” revival was
inaugurated last Saturday with a monster gather-
ing, which burst into applause on the slightest pro-
vocation, and went away wondering why
so bright a show should have to die in the
early pride of its prosperity. Talking of the flow
of melody and the feast of girl in this senti-
mental extravaganza, The Bulletin forgot to
say a kind word for Kenneth Mugg—M-u-double-
g, Mugg — the blighted low comedian, who has been
proposing anew for the hand of Mr. Snifkins’
daughter every time she got divorced. Lissant
makes a large success in his little part. He takes
it seriously, and the people who suffer from
tender feelings in “ The Belle of New York ” are
evidently meant to be taken seriously. Fifi,, the
candid candy damsel, is quite a tearful subject.
Blinky Bill has an emotional moment when he re-
assures Mamie that she is his goodest gel and ttie
Polite Lunatic wants to sprinkle the blood of two
Bronsons on his misplaced affections. As for the
heroine and her sudden young man, their love is
animated with the purest spirit of melodrama,
and their pleasant unselfishness is almost worthy
of Walter Baker and Miss Frances Ross. “The
Shop Girl” takes the floor on Saturday week.
She intended to arrive this week, but was post-
poned owing to the violent public demand for
more “ Belle.”
** * *
Madame Arral’s re-appearance at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, last Saturday, failed to attract
another great crowd, such as was drawn by the
novelty of her operatic recitals, a few weeks ago.
All the same, Madame had a good-sized audience
in all parts of the house, and her voice was more
in harmony with the impressive tone of the advt.
than it had been on previous occasions. Satur-
day’s programme was not the best of the series.
Sometimes the prima-donna was warbling (a series
of airs from “Lakme” kept her busy for a con-
siderable stretch of time), and sometimes the
orchestra offered compensation for her absence,
but there were many other times when the
curtain came down and silence reigned. Two
intervals of nearly 20 minutes apiece, together
with sundry long pauses to permit of the lady
changing her outfit, are more than a moderately-
musical citizen expects when he goes out to enjoy
himself. And why this ceremonious dressing of
the part for only one song ? The gorgeously
dramatic costume is not always a success, and it is
certain that the songstress would sing as fluently
in a long-tailed gown. The last of four recitals
falls due to-morrow (Friday) night, after which
Madame Arral goes to Adelaide.
* * * *-
“ The Shaughraun, ” revived at Melbourne
Princess’s the other week by an unattractive co.,
can never more get the patronage of those who
remember the elder Boucicault’s visit to Australia.
It was in “ The Shaughraun ” that the clever old
author-actor opened his tour at Melbourne Royal.
He brought with him his son, young “Dion,” his
witching little daughter, Nina, and Miss Agnes
Thomas, who played Claire Ffolliot. Among the
supporters provided by the “Firm” were
Titheradge, Herbert Flemming, Bill Leake and
other people, all of them good in their places.
Every subsequent production was doomed to
suffer from traditional comparison. When “The
Shaughraun ” is on the boards there’s no arguing
with the aged Jeremiahs who have ceased to go
to the theatre because there are “no actors now-
adays.”
* * *
On Saturday something new in farcical
comedy will be introduced to Australia at the
Princess’s. “ The Little Stranger ”is announced
as a liigh-class joke in three shrieks, the
shrieks radiating from a short-frocked comedian
of tender years. A new co., imported and other-
wise, will support the small boy, and the populace
of Melbourne is confidently expected to support
the management.
** * *
Now that Widdy O’Brien is an Australian
institution of over 20 years’ standing, her ad-
mirers grow more exacting re the racy relict’s
support. It’s a rare woman who, at 40, flaunts
with success the muslins she wore at 18, and now-
adays Sheridan’s O’Brien-sauce is hard put to it
to flavor the stew too long served up under the
misleading name, “Fun on the Bristol.” The
title should be altered to “Widdy O’Brien,”
seeing that the scant supply of glee noticeable on
the s.s. Bristol emanates from the Widow, though
her brightest moments occurred on land in her
own drawing-room. On Saturday night, at Melb.
Royal, the O’Brien kept things going at the
start, but from the time she went to sea
her spirits flagged. She boarded the Bristol in
a subdued frame of mind, and seemed to struggle
wearily through the time-worn business. Never-
theless, a big audience welcomed its Bridget with
joy and laughed loyally at all her ancient jests.
Of the story, one must admit that all its familiar
absurdities have lost, along with their vanished
novelty, their only claim to indulgence. Still
they maunder on as of yore. Captain Cranbury
jerks himself distressingly during conversation,
and retires to rest in a low-comedy bed, wherein
a handkerchief does the duty of a sheet. The
colored help’s black baby is, as formerly, wrong-
fully accredited to Nora O’Brien, an old-
young thing, in kittenish skirts. Bashful
Tommy Cranbury is, as usual, ordered by his
noisy progenitor to wed a maiden mature enough
in appearance to be the jacketed Tommy’s aunt.
None of the mal-de-mer jests has been pensioned
off, and the black steward with his “dollar” witti-
cisms is still in active business. Even when these
banalities were new, they were unworthy of
association with a stage masterpiece like Sheri-
dan’s “Widow,” who, failing an appropriate
setting, would have scored on a lone hand.
Variety business is turned on lavishly to swell the
attractions of Sheridan’s entertainment, and on
the first night a Scawtch impersonation met with
special favor.
** * *
The newest item in the bill at Melbourne
Opera House last Saturday was the announce-
ment that Tate’s Comedy Co. would pack up the
fragile motor car and the fishing punts, and leave
for Sydney this week. Their vacant place will be
filled by somebody or other—probably other.
And if the space were left vacant the rest of the
programme would leave “little to be desired ” for
the present. The Alaskas and the Cabiacs are a
couple of excellent acrobatic “turns,” and the
main body of the co. is fairly strong in sundry
respects.
** * *
Leslie Harris, the man who follows on the
lines of Melb. B. Spurr, and looks a worthy suc-
cessor, even in the fierce light of comparison, is
coming back to the Athenaeum Hall on Saturday
250
TO
OUTSIDE'WRAPPERS
FROM
4>
. DELICIOUS
(Chocolates,
CAILLER’S. p.o box 136
SYDNEY


to sing and talk and “ comedy sketch ” as before.
Melbourne took kindly to Harris in the first
instance, and with the assistance of Miss Kosma
Buckmann, a soprano from Maoriland, he should
hold his owd at the Hall in Collins-street during
the festive weeks of Gambling Evil. Allan
Hamilton is in charge of the show.
* * *- *
Also the spring season of Circus is at hand.
Wirth Bros, are returning with new white tents
and a reckless display of colored lights to establish
themselves for a time at their former pitch in
Alexandra Avenue. This time the Menagerie
appertaining to the Circus is abnormally strong
in elephants, and those cumbrous beasts of burden
are to figure hugely in an alleged representation
of the Durbar at Delhi. The Durbar brings all
the Wirthian resources into action, and a promin-
ent figure in the proceedings will be a bogus
Prince of Wales, formerly the Jookoyork. His
Royal Highness—at the Circus —is a personage of
uncertain size and stateliness. He varies a lot.
Rumor states that on one special occasion he was
impersonated by George Wirth, who wore a brown
beard and a formal manner in which condescension
struggled with a serene hauteur.
** * *
At Fitzgerald’s building the horseless
variety circus of Bostock and Wombell will
happen in competition with the adjacent Wirths
on Saturday night. B. and W. are likewise
bringing a tent for the accommodation of many
lions and tigers and other savage, outspoken
animals. Melbourne, in fact, is booked for the
most roaring and carnivorous-smelling Cup time
it lias ever known, and its appetite for menagerie
will be somewhat glutted.
** # *
Something of a boom in swimming exhi-
bitions is expected in Melbourne this summer as
the result of J. 0. Williamson and Co. having
taken over the baths at St. Kilda (which used to
be Heggarty’s) with a view to creating an Ocean
Paradise, or a Palace of Natation, or something—
a rival attraction to the coming “Dreamland ” at
the far end of the tram track. Swimming car-
nivals will eventuate presently, and the male idols
of the hour will be bare-legged professors of the
wettest of all arts. The success of the Sydney
men in England and the exploits of Annette Keller-
mann “on the continong” are supposed to have
excited a new Australian interest in human water-
fowl. On this supposition, Billington is being
imported for the season, and Phil Stuart, who
still hankers after shillings taken at the door,
seems to be interested in the spec. An ex-show-
man is never content to remain altogether ex.
Stuart has taken another pub, directly opposite
to Melbourne Waxworks, where he was manager
for poor old Kreitrnayer in days of yore. Now
that he is only a public entertainer in the liquid
sense of the word he often gazes thoughtfully
across the road as though wishing he could have
the Chamber of Horrors for an anteroom to his
back bar. They say that a man can’t enjoy the
companionship of waxwork figures for many years
without getting to love them.
#* * *
Both Adelaide theatres are now in the
firm grip of melodrama, at reasonable prices ; in
fact, eighteenpence, judiciously expended, will
buy admission to both shows. The Anderson co.,
at the Royal, evidently thought it a pity to waste
the locomotive which figured so largely in “The
Midnight Mail,” so it put up “East Lynne,”
making the railway smash a special feature. It
is now playing “Through the Divorce Court,”
which the management, with gloomy satire, calls
a “beautiful domestic play.” Brandon Crerner,
at the Tivoli, is also under suspicion of irony.
His attraction for the week has been widely
billed as “ Wilful Murder; first time in
Adelaide.” (And at the criminal court
sitting at the same time, two men and one
woman have been on trial for their lives for three
separate homicides.) B. Cremer himself is no
tragedian; in the “ murder ” play he kept for
himself the fat part of a person who was called
Nobby Nibbles, and behaved as such. Nobody
ever heard of either a hero or a villain called
Nibbles.
It is proposed to mark the retirement
from office of Mayor Taylor, of Sydney, by some
presentation. His term has been noteworthy in
the sense that it marks the beginning of a serious
attempt at the improvement of Sydney. A
meeting will be held at the Australia Hotel at
4 p.m. to-day to consider the proposal.
The coroner who investigated the death of
George Grohn—which death was alleged, at a
recent criminal libel trial, to have been caused by
John Norton—returned an open verdict. Medical
examination of the long-deceased corpse showed
that the skull had not been fractured, and that,
to a great extent, discounted the story told by
Morris that Norton had hit Grohn on the head
with a bottle, whereupon the German person
pegged out. The coroner remarked that Morris’
uncorroborated story could not be accepted, as,
even supposing it were true, it put him in the
position of being an accessory to the alleged crime.
The tale of the attendance roll for the
House of Representatives during the recent
session ought to make Australia take itself on one
side and ask itself sternly what it is paying some
of its Foreign-trade members for. Premier
Deakin, and several other Protectionist and
Labor Reps., attended 70 sittings each, and many
who didn't score that number weren’t far behind.
As usual, it was the Foreign-trade gang that did
most shirking of its graft. Some attendances :
Bruce Smith 21. Conroy 20, G. H. Reid 12, Gibb
(who wants Lyne’s seat) 21, Pumpkin Smith 8.
The Midland Railway Co. of Western Aus-
tralia, Ltd., having disposed of the farms contained in
their first sub-division, announce on page 34 this issue
the sale of the second sub-division of 80,000 acres on
the 16th November. Full particulars of the property,
which is situated in the far-famed Berkshire Valley, will
be found in the advt., and illustrated plans and all in-
formation may be had on application to the company,
or the auctioneer, James Gardiner, Howard-street,
Perth, W.A.*
The high speed of racing motor cars would not
be obtainable, but for the tyres fitted in the cars being
of the very best. It is significant that Wagner, on his
100 h.p. “ Darracq,” uses Continental Tyres. On a
bieycle, racing speeds are aided by specially constructed
light racing tyres, such as the Continental 00. manufac-
ture in Melbourne. They only weigh seven ounces, and
all those who have tried them say they are worth their
weight in gold.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
Sydney police intercepted a showman trying to enter
the OricketGround on the occasion of the last School
Carnival, with the body of a two-headed baby in a bottle
of spirits. The disgusting- object was for exhibition at
sixpence, or so, a time. With much good sense, the
police blocked the objectionable show.
“ SAHARET” described in Europe as “ the
Australian Dancer" Her identity is some-
thing of a mystery.
R.S.S. writes: If the author of “The Log of the Sea
Waif ” had kept in mind the proverb, “ A still tongue
shows a wise head,” before embarking on the Omrah at
Fremantle (when he knew he could not be answered) he
would not have made the “ unkind statement ” about the
management of his Australian tour (B. 4/10/’O6). Doubt-
less the trip could have been extended by accepting en-
gagements for other places; but the speculators who had
so engaged him would have lost money, and I have suffi-
cient self-respect left to decline offers that would probably
saddle the guarantors with a deficit. The fact is, Frank
T. Bullen was a striking instance of the wisdom of the
veteran Major Pond’s advice to keep your celebrity locked
up. The South Sea whaler was a good platform man ;
but off the platform he was “ a fellow of no mark nor
likelihood.” When people by going to a hotel can have a
drink and a chat with a celebrity for a shilling, they are
not so eager to pay one, two, or three shillings to hear
him at night without any liquid refreshment. Jovial
spirits tci' me the companion of “ Christ at Sea ” was
capital company in the small hours. Very likely ; but I
don’t bring out people from England because they can
set the table in a roar. Most of my celebrities from R.
A. Proctor, the greatest intellect of them all, downwards,
magnified their office ; the last of them was simply Jack
Ashore. Still, Bullen had some good points ; one of them
was the recognition of good qualities in others. As I
write I have before me a copy of his last book, “Sea
Spray,” which he gave me. It is inscribed, “To my
friend, R. S. Smythe, whom the longer I know the more
I like." No, Bullen is not a bad sort, after all.
In the revived “ Belle of New York ” at Melbourne Her
Majesty’s, Hetty Green’s name took the place of that of
deceased Russell Sage as the wealthy American who
would “ fall down dead ” if obliged to pay the salary of
the be-diamonded “Queen of Kammic Appera,” as the
original “ Belle ” co. called it. Mrs. Green, like Sage,
Rockefeller, and most other millionaires, is intensely re-
ligious, and asserts that she “ goes about her work in the
fear of the Lord, and the good Lord has blessed her and
made her successful.” This is all very impressive till one
finds out that Hetty sternly enforces the conditions of
the mortgages from which her millions are largely piled
up, and is one of the most remorseless sellers-up of impe-
cunious Christians on all the earth.
Bendigo, the place that grew Amy Castles and other
star-light prima-donnas, has added to its list of successes
Gertrude Alger. Miss Alger exhibits a white and shapely
wrist over a fiddle, and the results are satisfactory, quite
apart from the elegance of the producer thereof. She
went Bullwards, on the wings of a benefit concert, and
with the moral support of Heermann, who heard her play
in Melbourne. Now that she is in Bullopolis, she is
being starred as the girl from Bendigo. The name of the
city of quartz is becoming quite well known in piano,
fiddle, and song circle.
“ 0.K.” : Of all the shows that have had successful revi-
vals in this countrj’, “The Belle of New York ” is probably
the only one which got a contemptuous reception on its
first nights. Produced at Melb. Princess’s in 1899 with a
newly arrived co. (mostly American), the bizarre strange-
ness of characters and incidents at the outset of “The
Belle” moved the amphitheatre to ridicule. The Portu-
guese twins seemed a preposterous pair of mummers, the
sudden inrush of “Conspirators Three” set the audience
wondering what other sort of wild foolishness the piece
had in store for them, and when the Polite Lunatic came
sidling on, the gods simply roared with amazement. The
Lunatic broke them up. He was too absurd on the face
of him to be accepted as a reasonable joke. So they
“guyed” him. “The Belle of New York” was fully a
week old before its catchy music and humorous medley
of characters began to win a favorable verdict from che
general public. But those Portuguese twins have never
been more than tolerated. They still look like a topical
skit, the key to which remains in America.
“ Tasma.” writes : “ Tas.” (4/10/’O6) curses the present
reign of the “ infant prodigy,” which, since Meynell and
Gunn’s atrocious creation, permeates everything in the
show line, from a shearing-hop to a city Town Hall
Sunday “ Sacred and Classical ” concert. I would remind
him that the horror has come to stay, so warn him to be-
come reconciled. Fell in myself last Sunday at the Town
Hall when Little Somebody or Baby Something tooted on
a toy cornet (?) “ The Howl-ie City.” There was nothing
to particularly recommend Baby Something to the
thunderous favor she received, but the applause was all
there. I read of a new play coming out, in which the
principal is a kiddie. Hobart has just organised a
“Juvenile Brass Band ” —“ all performers are under 15,”
the ad. runs. Instead of damning the show —as it should
—this announcement just rakes in the shekels. Last but
not least we have the recent “ La Poup6e ” in Melbourne,
run by kids, and the “Squaw(k)” infant at Her Majesty’s.
Pansy Montague now stands almost on a level with
royalty, seeing that the last available Daily Mail (Sept. 7)
contains this news: “During one of her poses at the
Pavilion Theatre last night, La Milo was'suddenly over-
come with faintness, and had to stop her performance.”
Also, Pansy had another attack of faintness, and was
paragraphed when she fell off her pedestal on to the floor.
The papers could do no more than that for the king when
the bird dropped on his head.
Amy Sherwin is reported to have said to an interviewer
at Fremantle last week —“ It is 18 years since I last
appeared in Australia. I am almost ashamed to think I
have remained away so long.” The ex-Tasmanian song-
stress, if she made that statement, was thinking of a
time when she ventured a season of English opera, which
was in 1888. Eight years later she returned to Australia
and gave concerts, with Barton M'Guckin, the worn-out
Irish tenor, as her co-attraction. Poor M’Guckin’s voice
soon went all to pieces, and he left the co. Madame in
the meantime had sent to England for Henry Stockwell,
a Maoriland-Australian tenor who committed the in-
discretion of going to the Cold Country to make his
fortune. Stockwell accepted the invitation, and took
M'Guokin’s place for the remainder of the short tour.
A Judkins has broken into a violent rash of pious abuse
of the Australian Milo in London. He is the Rev. C.
Copeland Smith, and his moral anguish is deafening. He
accuses the handsome Montague of lowering the moral
tone of London, which is rather a large order for one
Pansy blossom. La Milo tells a Sunday Chronicle inter-
viewer that the overflow of the Rev. Smith’s emotions is ■
“just silly,” and she goes on with touching ingenu-
ousness: “The beauty of the human body is a
thing to glory in. I feel that by doing what I
can to display it I am helping to raise the public
taste.” The result of the wild disputation was a
tremendous rush of parsons and spiritual teachers to
the dress circle of the Pavilion ; night after night the
place was black with the “cloth,” andJiterally festooned
with the patriarchal whiskers of holy men, all anxious to
satisfy themselves that. La Milo’s turn was as immodest
as Copeland Smith had represented it. A curious feature
of the outburst is found in the doleful complaint of the
management that the parsons all wanted to get in on the
nod. That is so like the parsons. They even bucked at
the idea: of the manager sending around the plate.
“ E.F.”: I’ve heard Dolores sing many songs, on not less
than thirty different occasions during the past 10 years,
but I never heard her in such fine form as when she gave
her farewell matinee recital at Melbourne Town Hall, two
or three Saturdays ago. Her voice was perhaps a little
more smooth, round, and sweet than ever before, and
the art of the vocalist seemed better than her previous
best. All singers have their great days, and others that
are comparatively “ off,” and, as luck would have it, the
voice didn’t always rise to the most crowded occasions in
Melbourne. The end of the Melba boom was the begin-
ning of the Dolores boom, but it happened that when the
placid little artist made her first appearance in Melbourne,
after the departure of the guinea “ star,” she didn’t sing
nearly as brilliantly to the packed audience as she had
often sung before when the Town Hall was but half-full.
Some people who have heard her only once or twice are
quite honest in their assertions that the Dolores voice is
merely an ordinary one extraordinarily well cultivated.
Had they heard her at other times, they would know
that Nature gave her a fine vocal organ to work upon—
not a wonderful property like Melba’s, but one which is
nevertheless stronger and of finer quality than the
average professional soprano can boast. The popularity
of this delightful singer was built upon a good sound
foundation.
Australia’s Pansy Montague (the Modern Milo) is thus
boomed in an American “ yaller ” journal:—“ Probably
the greatest object of attraction and curiosity in England
just now is Miss Milo, the Modern Venus. Nobody knows
who Miss Milo is. She has preserved her incognito in
spite of the most determined efforts to find it out. Every
night she drives to the theatre in a closed automobile,
steps out, completes her performance, and leaves imme-
diately afterwards. No one has been able to make her
acquaintance, although the gilded youth of London and
many members of the House of Lords have been striving
for the honor. She is very modest, and is evidently a
gentlewoman. It is credibly reported that she is the
daughter of a well-known nobleman in reduced circum-
stances, although it has also been stated that she is the
daughter of a deceased bishop. The preparation with
which Miss Milo covers her face and figure is a puzzle to
everybody. It has been scrutinised by hundreds of
thousands of eyes, with the finest opera glasses obtain-
able, but no one has been able to discover its nature.”
Pansy, of Melbourne, as “ the daughter of a deceased
bishop,” and also as the heiress of a reduced nobleman
with nothing to leave her, gets a fine advt., which ought
to be good for business w'hen she goes to the U.S. A
nobleman has to be reduced almost to nothing before he
ceases to be a business property in Uncle Sam-land.
MAKE LIGHT OF IT.
There is a growing tendency to dwell on the defects of
our social life.—ARC[?]S.
THINMAN : “ I’m hunyry.”
F ATMAN: “ Ah — cr—[?] won't dwell an that.”
“Melb.”: Ristori, just deceased, debuted here in
“ Medea,” an Italian translation of Legouve’s French
tragedy, written for Rachel, but refused by her. It was
a terrible blow to Rachel when Ristori made such a hit
with it in Paris. Theodore Martin deals with Rachel in a
just-issued volume of essays. He mentions Ristori as far
inferior to Rachel, who had the sacred fire of genius,
whereas Ristori only had superb personal advant-
ages and perfect technique. Ristori’s first stage
appearance was as a baby, like Edmund Kean,
who was carried on by Kemble as Rolla, in “Pizarro.”
Ultimately Kean dethroned Kemble. Ristori was
supported in Australia by four actors who had held lead-
ing positions in Italy: Majeroni, Glech, Piazzi, and her
brother, Cesare Ristori. Majeroni, with his then beauti-
ful voice, revived the traditions of Brooke. Yet he was
said not to equal his elder brother in Italy. Our familiar
Giorgio and Mario Majeroni both vividly recall their
father in appearance. The greatest dramatic perform-
ance ever known in Italy was of Felice Orsini’s “Fran-
cesca di Rimini,” for the Dante Centenary. Ris-
tori was the heroine, supported by Salvirii, Rossi,
and the elder Majeroni. Orsini was guillotined for
the attempt on the life of Napoleon 111. with an
infernal machine, the circumstances being almost exactly
similar to an escape of the great Napoleon and Josephine,
and of the King and Queen of Spain this year. Ristori
was rather too much pass6e in Australia. She looked
squab and washer-womanly in “ Medea.” Queen
Elizabeth and Mary Stuart showed her off better.
How splendid was her Judith, with the temptation
of Holofernes, the pure woman simulating passion.
For the benefit of church-going people, stricter
then than now, she gave a performance of her
great character, Marie Antoinette, in the Town Hall,
an astonishing piece of stage management, with the
scenery and crowds on such a shallow' stage. That funny
Mayor, Gatehouse, had the job of presenting her with a
crown of gold. He stuck it on her head all awry, and
the crown looked drunk. Gatehouse is never mentioned
w'ithout a reminiscence of the immortal incident of his
riding home to Toorak (then an obscure suburb) on a
saveloy machine at one in the morning. Ristori’s auto-
biography is a very pleasing, modest, and intelligent
book. She acted Lady Macbeth, in English, throughout
England, supported by William Itignoldas Macbeth.
Thomas Bent still keeps his clay land and
his brick-making plant at Thornbury. This en-
ables him to retain his grip on the throat of the
Brick Combine. Bricks have jumped several
shillings a thousand in Melbourne, but Tommy
pays the old price on behalf of the State. He
threatens, if the brick-fiends raise the price on
him, to at once start the State works.
A good Anti-Sosh elector turned up to
vote for Bayles of the beautiful feet at Toorak
last week, and found that he was not on the roll,
whereat lie sat down and dashed off half a
column of powerful remarks on the electoral
office, and the fatted public servant, and the
horrible Socialistic system which left elections in
the hands of the State instead of entrusting them
to private enterprise. Anti-Sosh Melbourne began
to see things on the publication of the letter, and by
12 o’clock Flinders-lane looked like Warsaw in the
d.t.’s. Then, next day, came along a quiet little
paragraph, explaining that the infuriated elector’s
house wasn’t in Toorak at all, but on the opposite
side of the street that divided that electorate
from Hawthorn. He was simply such a dull and
wooden-headed specimen of Private Enterprise
that he didn’t know which electorate he was in.
Now he is sorry he spoke, and all the Very Best
People are cutting him- because he doesn’t live in
Toorak.
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.-If
anything can “ minister unto a mind diseased ” it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “cleanse
the stuff’d bosom of the perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of therapeutics,
being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
The most interesting lady among the large
batch who put in their spare time watching the
dragging of Albert Park lagoon for further instal-
ments of “the mystery,” has just been brought
into the light. She is a robust dame from Port
Melbourne, and she has been most regular in her
attendance. An inquisitive journalist got after
her, the other day, and she offered a satisfactory
explanation. “ Yeh see, mister, me ’usband’s bin
gone missin’ these three months ; ’n’ I ain’t ’eard
er word about ’im all that time, ’n’ ez Bill was er
fair-’aired bloke, I’ve ’ad me suspicions roused be
this ’ere tragedy, ’n’ I’ve thought it me dooty
t’ ’ang round ’ere in case Bill should turn
up.” It is hoped that Bill, if still living, will be
recalled to his post by the touching picture of his
grass-widow waiting on the banks of the lagoon
for her husband to turn up.
THE ANCIENT HEBREW COON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Bulletin, —I am sorry to be forced to the painful
conclusion that the person responsible for the popular
English version of the Song of Solomon did not know his
business. Consider this extract from his meagre render-
ing:—“Return, return, O Shulamite ; return, return,
that we may look upon thee.” And then ponder the use
an imaginative writer of coon songs, careless of
anachronisms and similar trifles, could have made of such
material:—
Dere’s a yaller girl from Shulam what has capchered dis
yere coon—
Her name it is Ab-i-shag ;
So dis Solomon’s a solemn man beneaf de solemn moon,
For ma heart’s in her carpet bag ;
Dere’s not a crease in dat valise she’s cartin’ round about,
For, doan’ yer see, my mi-ighty affecshuns plump it out,
But I can’t part with ma big heart, so dat is why I shout
From eb-e-ry hill and crag :
Abby—ma tart from Shulam—
You am—ma fluffy ewe-lamb,
Sweeter dan de swec' .s’ date or lumps o’ Turk’sh de-
li-ight!
Oh, if—Ah could but, meet you
Ah’m suah—sh’d almost eat you !
Come back, ma Shulamite !
Oh, Ah’ve had enough ob Hittite girls an’ Ammonites an’
such
Who stand in ma Abby’s light;
An’ Moabites an’ Edomites Ah never want to touch
Dey’re pallin’ upon ma sight;
An’ when de gay Zidonians to make me smile aspired,
Ah simply said, “ Oh, bag yer head ! Yo’ niggahs make
me tired !
Ob all de girls ma yaller pearl’s de one dat’s most desired—
Abby', ma Shulamite ! ”
Abby—ma Turkey lolly—
Come back—an’ soothe your Solly t
Ah’ve a lubbly crowd ob wives, but, risin’ in ma mi-ight,
From all—de seben hundred,
Ah’d pret-ty T quick get sundered
If you’d come back, ma Shula-lula-mite !
vio.
N. M. LALLET.
in
M| L|>
TTTTi
U
William Tieming# equitable B° r ', ceorcest.syd/iev.
(3) tfandnuuj vou,
Ju/i/md Y-mdaH&d/ for uJ
fuWC OOTflb fot/fy u/i/b> uaw/'
Utomafo forecmorm/ yMtu -
faction. hi/1
m-kand%cu/> ... „
jmt Vruty jfrfa,
A Great Run on KOLA-CUi
■
KOI~A
cue
~r\
KOLA CUP strengthen?-
the S TOMA ctt and makes
* KEW BLOOD Zr
A Most ...
Wholesome
and Popular
DrinK!
*
Let your first drink each
day be-. - —^
l\ola«Cup
A MOST WHOLESOME
FOUNDATION.


SOCIETY
WHEN CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES.
“ I should think your husband was about the tallest man in Sydney."
“ If you heard me asking him for money you'd think he was the shortest man on earth."
“ J.A.C.” : Be the mysterious wreck dis-
covered on the sea-bottom near Queenseliff
(Vic.)—the wreck with a crop of seaweed 50ft.
high growing on it—Mr. John Kelly, once well-
known as an opera singer, informs me that it
must be that of the clipper ship Ontario, on
which he, together with his father, mother, and
the rest of the family, was a passenger 53 years
ago, he being then 19 years and four months short
of the age of discretion. The Ontario was in part
chartered by Kelly’s father. It sailed from Rio
de Janeiro for Melbourne, and was wrecked near
what is now Queenseliff, while entering Port
Phillip Heads, in December, ’53. It had been
the intention of father Kelly to proceed to the
diggings and open stores there, and to that end he
had with him a considerable quantity of material,
and much liquor, all of which was lost. The
wreck was due to the obfuscation of the skipper,
who had been on a solid drunk during the whole
passage, and the crew and some of the passengers
were also drunk. [But the vessel in question is
said to have been burnt, not drunk.—Ed. B.j
A Melbourne policeman, specially engaged
at a fee of nine “bob” for the night, has given
the Force one more lesson in how not to doit.
The other Saturday, the keys of a news-agency
shop in Collins-street were stolen, and the boss
prudently hired a constable to keep watch on the
premises at night, lest the key-stealer should
attempt a burglary. The shop was a trap with
the vigilant myrmidon of the law as the imple-
ment of capture. The thieves came along in all
their innocence. One of them was heard (by the
constable within) instructing his mates to keep
“ nit ” at the corner whilst he let himself into the
shop with the front door key. Here was the
chance for the man in ambush to earn his fee of
9s. by hiding himself from observation until the
mouse was in the trap, secure his prey, and then
have a crafty go for the “ nits ” outside. But the
lad had hardly got into the shop when he
saw a helmet gleaming like a danger-signal,
whereupon he turned and fled, pursued by
the man-in-waiting. The constable threw aside
his helmet as a useless encumbrance now that it
had served to scare the person he was paid to
catch, hut even in his bareheaded state he was too
slow for the other fellow, who got away comfort-
ably. Meanwhile the lively “nits,” doing a bolt for
safety, were stopped by another policeman. They
stated that they were “ running for the train after
seeing a mate home,” which was very near the
truth, no doubt. They got out of their tight place.
The next Melbourne shopkeeper who has reason
to expect a burglary will probably arrange to do
his own thief-catching instead of appealing to the
Force that has proved itself so much worse than
useless where Wren’s tote is concerned. The
policemen of Melbourne rarely catch anything ex-
cept the influenza.
# * V *
Dr. Sheridan’s slaying of Mrs. Ray, in
Adelaide, was technically, and in law, the same
offence as another Dr Sheridan’s slaying of a
young woman in Sydney, some years ago. Just ice
Simpson passed the deat h sentence in the Sydney
case, but intimated that it was not likely to he
carried out. Although the N.S.W. law authorises
death for the offence, in no case before Sheridan’s
was the penalty enforced. The Executive, how-
ever, stood firm, partly, it was considered, because
of the gruesome methods Sheridan had adopted
in his anxiety to get rid of the body, and partly
because of his former had character- he had
had a previous hint in the shape of a long
term of gaol, and about an acre of gaol
should he a broad enough hint for any. man.
There was little logic, however, in growing
excited over his gruesome attempts to get rid
of the body ; nothing—not the throwing of
the remains into Albert Park lagoon —could be
more gruesome than burial and slow corruption,
even if it is burial and slow corruption in West-
minster Abbey, and the Executive would have
quite approved of burial. Anyhow the N.S.W.
law suspended Dr. Sheridan, of Sydney, though
if there had been an Appeal Court he would pro-
bably have only struck a maximum of 10 years,
like Dr. Sheridan, of Adelaide.
“J.L.C.”: The other night I went to
church, and, as nearly as I can remember, this is
what I heard :
“ Deah friends, let us consider these great evils in
ower communitay—these great evils that are undermin-
ing- ower communitay—ower young com muni tay—yes,
ower young communitay of Australia!).”
Dead silence for 80 seconds ; parson stares at congrega-
tion with fixed and glassy stare.
“ You ask, deah friends, what are these evils in ower
communitay—ower young communitay—you ask what
are these evils. (Intensely) I will tell you.”
Long pause.
“ There are three evils.”
“Firstlay—that great evil, the drink evil—we are a
communitay of drunkards.”
Dramatic gesture and impressive pause.
“ Secondlay—that great evil, the gambling evil—we
are a communitay of gamblers.”
Theatrical silence for 23 seconds.
“ Thirdlay—that great curse of immoralitay—we are an
immoral communitay. (Heatedly) I say we are an im-
moral communitay.”
Alas! I could bear no more. Bursting into
tears, I staggered outside and caught the tram
to Coogee, where I had to meet a girl.
EDUCATIONAL.
Professor of Polite Literature AND HIGH ART: “Now, young gentlemen, can any of you
give me a good definition of Genius?"
Beloved Disciple : “ Genius, sir, is an unlimited capacity for taking — er—what belongs to others."
The N.S.W. First Offenders Act bobs up
in strange places. Donald Roderick (Sinclair,
whose marriage with Miss Wolinski was the
Hebrew sensation of a couple of years ago, pleaded
guilty, at Sydney Quarter Sessions, last week, to
a charge of bigamy, he having married again in
1905, and the Judge suspended sentence under
the First Offenders Act. Seeing that a man can
hardly commit bigamy more than once—it becomes
polygamy after that, or else insanity—the plea
leads curiously. Bigamy is something like parri-
cide ; you can’t make a fixed habit of it. Nor,
for that matter, can you become a chronic suicide.
‘ ‘ The Stoker ” : The people here (W. A.) have
had their faith in Bill Cooke, the astronomer, and
his seismograph rudely shaken. A few days ago lie
came out with the startling announcement that
his machine had registered an appalling earth-
quake, to which, so it was generally reported, the
San Francisco disturbance was a mere circum-
stance. The rumor was current that the pendu-
lum had swung back with great violence, striking
Cooke so hard on the jaw as to compel him to
t ike his full ten seconds on the Observatory floor.
He quickly recovered, and telephoned to the
newspaper offices to get their scare type ready,
for he expected cables any minute giving details
of the destruction of half the globe. He then drew
himself up to his full height in the limelight, and
awaited results. But, alas ! not a ripple seems to
have disturbed the earth’s surface, and the only
explanation is that a beetle got into the instru-
ment and had a swing on the pendulum.
One of the quaintest features of the Albert
Park (Vic.) corpse-dredging business is the inven-
tion of irrelevant tales by disinterested parties,
mostly in short skirts. One damsel stated how, on
being engaged as housemaid at an Albert Park
dwelling, she was given a latchkey and told to
come and let herself in the next evening and start
work. She duly arrived and entered, leaving a
small brother outside ; but she was so horrified on
hearing a struggle and groans as soon as she
reached the first room that she gathered up the
brother and fled home. The detectives, who got
this horror second-hand, tried for some days to
trace the fearsome yarn to its source, but had to
give it best without finding the young damsel, the
small brother, the mysterious house, or anything.
To anyone who knows the underground history of
Melbourne and Sydney, the marvel is that the
output of Australian printed fiction is so poor.
■* * * *
A witness who recentlyfailedtoansweracall
to Melbourne County Courthad acertain amount of
bad luck. According to a letter he sent in, his
horse’s four shoes came off while driving up a
steep hill. Then the wheels turned inside out.
Next the horse lay down and declined to get up.
The animal, in addition to lameness, got the
strangles. And while he was wondering what he
ought to do with a lame horse with strangles, the
baby was bitten by a black snake. Apparently
nothing happened to the cow, the dog, or the
missus ; nevertheless, he got the Court’s sym-
pathy, and was excused. Evidently the Court
felt it wasn’t safe to have a man like that on the
premises.
In Sydney, last week, a man who repre-
sented himself as about the most guileless publican
on earth charged a foreigner with basely deceiving
him to the extent of 50s. and sundries. He said
that the stranger did the following sins :
(1) Used his parlor for the purpose of watching
imaginary criminals through the window.
(2) Told him he was getting £3OOO a year from the
N.S.W. Government as a detective, and had been offered
a renewal of his job at £5OOO a year, but had declined.
(3) Showed the publican a chain with a whistle at the
end of it as a proof of his bona fides.
(4) Showed him another whistle as further proof.
(5) Told a hen and cow narrative to the effect that he
had to capture a lady and take her away in a cab ; that
he had then to come back and capture another lady and
take her away in a cab ; and that his mate had to capture
a third lady and take her away in a cab.
(6) Had a brandy ; shouted whisky for a cabman ; abo
had a drink with a woman, for which he apparently
didn’t pay.
(7) Pervaded the place generally.
(S) Borrowed 50s.
And after all that the case'fell through.
CHEERFUL.
DOCTOR: “Now, don't worry , whatever you do.
A man with heart-disease can't afford to worry,
A void all company of any kind, drink nothing
whatsoever, and on no account touch meat
or vegetables. By-the-bye, I won't be able to
call again till Wednesday, as I have to attend
the funerals of three patients."
Even the Victorian “ honorarium ” throws
sarcasm at the inquisitive females who crowd the
police courts whenever a “‘shocking” case is to
come on. Prahran’s mayor lately ordered
all children out of court, and then beamed
pleasantly at the females, and said that those who
were not ladies might remain. There were nearly
a score present, of whom all but four flounced out,
and said “The wretch !”
THE WILD COLONIAL BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At last week’s meeting-of the Prahran (Melb.) Council,
Councillor Naylor said nowhere in the world was van-
dalism carried on to the extent that it was by children in
the Commonwealth. The reason was, that the teach is
did not instil into the minds of children respect for other
people’s property.
Councillor Dobson remarked that benefit would accrue
if the teachers would impress on the minds of children to
respect other people’s property. —News Item.
There’s a brand-new tale for election time—
The yarn is fresh from the loom,
And the sad Six Hatters will downward climb
And the Marriage Tie make room.
A horrible dirge will be set to a chant that’s keyed away
down in D,
And a voice of fear will strike the ear of the Holder of
Propertee.
Our babies scoff at the Bumble tribe;
They gird at a waistcoat white.
It is part of their plot to jeer and gib.;
At the new-made civic knight.
They sneer, with the hand spread fanwise out from the
nose, at the M.L.0.,
And, though so young, they expose the tongue at the
mention of Propertee.
They have planned campaigns to destroy the shops
And ravage the country-side,
Till the Backbone fears for his standing crops,
And the Fat Man for his hide.
They are hand-in-glove with the Socialists, and their
leader, a fiend of three,
Will litter “ The Lane ” with heaps of slain as a challenge
to Propertee.
Look well to your platform, Fanners' League !
•Stand up to your guns, Reform !
For this is more than a mere intrigue—
They will carry your forts by storm.
You must lock your ranks and oppose a front to these
kids incendiaree,
Lest your name be Mud when they wade through blood
to get at your Propertee !
vie.
KETTI[?]RUM
Furred vSßins
Rabbit iSßins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGN/lENTS TO—
HILL CLARK ® CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY »
DO YOU Take Photos?
52
Then, doubtless, you are one of many others who
nave found that making’ Prints from your negatives is
rather a prolonged job. You are at business all day,
and prefer to take an Outing on Saturday, thus Print-
ing is deferred.
HAVE YOU TRIED
GASLIGHT
PAPER ?
Whilst Verv Beautiful Results are obtained with the Utmost Simplicity, any Quantity
of Prints can be made in the evening. All that is necessary is to place a piece o
ARTLYTE paper on the Negative in the Printing Frame, hold it for a few seconds before a gas jet or lamp,
take it out, and immerse it in a simple chemical solution, and the result is an Exquisite Photograph,
superior to what would be produced on any other paper.
IN PACKETS- REGULAR SIZES. POPULAR PRICES.
PRINCIPAL DISTRIBUTORS —
HARRINGTON & Co.
386 GEORGE ST.
NEAR
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY,
93 Queen-st., Brisbane


The Gtick and Bath and Willis and HoS-
kitia and M’Nair larid eases are. still hung.tip on a
n ail. some Where about Sydney. They turned up
in the courts last week, or 18 months ago, or some
tuuc like that, blit the accused Weren't ready, and
the only result was the usual “ barney ” in which
Chick talked most of the time, and Charles Bath
let his drooping Walrus moustache dangle round,
and said nothing, Then matters Were post-
poned till yesterday, or 1908, or- -well, it doesn’t
seem to matter ini uoh when, Public interest is
gradually dying a very dead sort of death in the
Matter, and, if the Crick-Bath-Willis-Hoskins-
M’Nair business dropped altogether, half the
pdpiilatioU Wouldn’t notice its absence;
* * * i
A feeeiit Argus “London Letter *’ Opened
Spiritedly : *’ It ig strange hOw fortune plays ihto
the hands bf Kitig Edward, GircuhistanCfeS ate
Continually permitting hiin to display that kindly
taCt stud consideration which have made him the
hero of two nations.” Tlieh the happy ahd loyal
journalist goes Oh Merrily to explain how Lady
Uarrtpbeli-Bahhernian’s death just happened in
the Hick Of tittle and the right place to enable
Edward VII. tq make a big hit with sympathy
and Condolence arid “ magnificent Wreaths bf Coses
and lilies.” His Majesty also Walked behind the
Coffin to the Station. The impression conveyed is
that Lady Campbell-Bannerman obligingly died
to give her beloved sovereign all Opportunity of
coming out strong with his royal virtues.
THE TERRORS OF THE LAW.
Geelong (Vic.) has a Chinese prisoner on hand who
positively refuses to he released. Other Chinamen are
now trying’ to get into the gaol, which has a high reputa-
tion for comfort.
Pie Wee (insinuatingly): “ Goo’ molnin, Missa
Pleeceman. Me chopee up wood, dig garden,
you give me one week longa lock-up.”
A death notice from a N.S.W. country
paper concluded with this verse
A loving brother—a brother dear—
A faithful friend while he was here.
We cannot forget him, we loved him too dearly
For his memory to fade from our lives like a dream ;
The lips need not speak when the heart mourns sincerely,
And thoughts often dwell where they seldom are seen.
We fain would have kept and shrank from the stroke ;
But link after link of the chain must be broke.
With sorrow we w'atched his last lingering breath.
He lay like a lily so lovely in death.
And the deceased lily was a Chinese ! Asia picks
up the white man’s vices quickly. Memorial
poetry is one of the worst vices of the white.
* * * *
Mr. 11. D. Hanlon, the well-known
chemist, Wellington, N.Z., writesl have
sold many grosses <pf Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
during the past six years, and have never had a
customer speak disparagingly of the result; but,
to the contrary, they all sing its praises long and
loud. I always like to recommend Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy to my customers, because I know
it is really good, and contains no poison of any
nature, thus making it a safe remedy to have in
the home medicine chest.”*
Bhoken Hiil still sticks to the curiouS
Custom of slanging its personal enemy by adver-
tisement in thb papers, and telling hter that if she
dbeS it again the advertiser will take drink; or
proceedings, or the necessary steps, or something,
Two recent samples follow i—
"V'OTICE.-—lf Mrs, J, Timmins, Piper-lane, South
Broken Hill, does not stop making remarks
about myself, family, and F. Lekoviteh, proceedings
Will be taken without further notice,
W. J, Donlox, Piper-street, South Broken Hill.
Then the reply
TN reply to the notice appearing in the Barrier
Miner, dated 24th inst,, signed “ \V, J, Donlon,”
I may state that I have made no remarks that I am
afraid of, and the threat will hot alter my Opinion ;
and I may say that of nly neighbors generally, as such
gossip appears to be public property, As to the
party, F. Lekoviteh (a foreigner, T presume), I do not
know Him personally, blit, all the same, I have no
time fdr fdreignerS at any time about my place. In
Conclusion, you are at liberty to take any action you
CliooSe, Sira, J. Timmins,
Piper street, Sout i Broken Hill.
On the whole, Mrs, Timttliils scores, There is
something magnificent about her Manlier of
Stating that she has no tiiiie for F. Lekoviteh,
* * 4 *
80 hie tilne ago ah order Was issued by the
N.S,W. Tramways Department that conductors
alld other employees. When travelling to and from
their work, were to make way for passengers
Should the Compartment in Which they were
Seated become inconveniently full. The other
day, an eX-tramway official now a private
paying citizen—entered a smoking compart-
ment Which Was badly crowded, Observ-
ing tihe of the Commissioners seated in the
Corner and taking Up a lot of room, he politely
requested the great Inah to Make way for him,
one of the sovereign public, alid quoted the Com-
missioners’ own rule tor the autocrat’s edification.
The only reply was an angry threat to call the
police,
* * * *
“G. Elburg”: After reading “Adelaide’s”
eulogy on the by-la Ws of our holy city (B. 21/9/’0(>),
I Walked dowii King William-street to make
Observations I counted 3,870,-204 places where
Adelaide had spat On the pavement oil one side of
tile street alone. Then I aeCosted Cottstable
O’Moses alid drew his atteiitioh to the sin, and
asked Why the law Wasn’t enforced, or, if it was.
What Premier Pr.Ce had done with the 3,870,204
fines, Constable O’MoSes spat to the value Of £lO
and looked at tne With an inquiring eye. t
dropped the subject and asked him where I could
find a decent and handy place-tote, and he
courteously supplied the information, The holy
citizens make beautiful by-laws, Whichare Violently
enforced for one consecutive day. Then they be-
come by-words.
* * * *
“Wang”: I have been noticing the
varieties of dead-beat. There is the ordinary
wreck, who Creeps up behind you on soundless
feet, as you are admiring yourself in a shop
window, and
siys in a gut-
t iral Whisper,
“ Fur Gold’s
sake, mister,
gimme a tray
an’ save me
life.”Hedoesn’t
seem much of
an acquisition
to the popula-
tion, and you
hurry away. A
little further on
you are button-
lioled by an un-
kempt indivi-
dual, who with
a grandiloquent
wave of his
aim, lifts his
lettered cady,
and confidenti-
ally informs you
that he was
once a gentle-
man. You es-
cape, and bump
against the man
who can’t find
work, and has a
wife and four-
teen kids to
keep. The other
night I was
s aunteringdown
George - street
with a friend,
when a fallen
tower planted
himself about
five yards in
front of us, and
held uphis hand
like a police-
man stopping
the traffic. The
traffic stopped.
Then, in a hail-
fellow-well-met
voice, he opened,
‘ ‘ Ha! j ust the boys
I’ve been looking for.
Ha ! naughty boys, gay lads, going the pace, eh ? ”
I had a bad shilling, a couple of half-pennies and
a bunch of keys, and felt about as gay as a coffin.
But I had to keep up appearances, so I laughed
knowingly:and jingled the keys. “I am going to
make an unusual request from one gentleman to
another,” remarked the foundered object. He
leered again as one of the night patrol rustled
past. “ But you understand me, boys.” We did,
and did a bolt for liberty, our keys making a
jingle like a flying Rockefeller as we hurried down
the street, and blending pleasantly with the
curses of the derelict who ran unpublishably in
our wake.
* * ■* *
Advt. from S.M. Herald (6/10/’O6) :
■pESP. Prot. Woman, assist home duties, 12s. mth.,
-I v cott., facing sea, fare paid, 170 Beattie-st.,
R ozelle.
To be a respectable Protestant woman facing the
sea for 12s. a month, and her fare paid to Bal-
main ! It is almost as bad as Australia Facing
the Dawn.
• * » *
During Federal Session of Parliament just
closed little was accomplished with much difficulty;
whereas if the flow of wisdom had been quickened
by D.C.L. Whisky much more would have been
achieved with greater ease. Where the spirit of
fellowship with progress is inspired by D.C.L.
silly obstruction is dissolved by good sense and
good temper. The politician who lubricates his
mental capacity with an occasional drop of
D.C.L. can never be an unwise obstructionist.*
The difference between the Jew and the"
Christian as a business man (and as a card-player)
often lies in the average superiority of the Jew
as a mfental arithmetician. When a Hebrew baby
is born the great grey grandfather spirit of the
tribe of Abraham comes to the
bedside and Whispers loudly in
the infant’s ear that money
doubles itself at 5 per cent/
compound interest in 15
years. Young Moses never
forgets this, and before he
is seven years old he can
remember by heart half the
logarithm table.
the heavenly tote ,
(What we dreamed we saw on the racecourse.)
“ Put a shilling in the plate and yet a chance of
eternal happiness.”
Private Enterprise runs the Ballarat
(Vic.) trams, and there has been continual trouble
with the employees. Electric traction is so cheap
in itself that Private Enterprise always seems to
reckon that the men who work the electrics ought
to be very cheap also. Ballarat was given pennj r
sections at first; but later on fares were- doubled,
every penny section being enthusiastically turned
by Private Enterprise into a twopenny one. But
the penny employee did not become a twopenny
one by any means. The men endured their
almost invisible wages in the penny days, but
now that Private Enterprise is raking in double
fares, they think that they ought to be allowed to
live. They ask for only lOd. an hour, and should
see that they get it.
“Philo” ; Be The' Bulletin’s remarks
aHefit proselytism. The eonvert to Judaism is
everywhere unpopular, and nowhere more so than
in Australia Until recently there was no one in
Sydney invested with the necessary authority to
admit proselytes ; in fact, there
was no one entitled to the name
of Rabbi- The only genuine
Rabbi in Australia was Dr.
Abrahams, of Melbourne, and
any Sydney matters requiring
rabbi-ment had to be referred
to the Beth Din (House of
Judgment or Rabbinical Court)
there, or to London. The
possession of the rabbinical
degree entitles its owner to
form a Beth Din, of which he
is the head, for the purpose
of adjudicating on important
questions concerning Judaism.
About 12 months ago, Sydney
Jewry pulled itself together
and imported the real thing
for itself, and now it can
throw out its collective stum-
mick with pride at possessing
a Beth Din of its very own.
When Rabbi Cohen arrived
there was a great rush of
applications for admission to
Judaism ; but prospective
converts must be able to
convince the Rabbi that
their object in seeking ad-
mission to the Chosen rac e
is to gratify purely reli-
gious sentiments, and not
for reasons in any way
connected with worldly
gain. Only one of the lot
was able to do this suc-
cessfully, And, when this
fact was announced at a
meeting in Sydney, there
was great rejoicing among
the Children of Israel,
* *
“ Dul ” writes
“L. 0.” (B. 6/9/OG) says lie has fust-
seen the Woman with the Hoe-
Twenty years ago, while travelling
near Freeling (S. A.) I saw the Woman"
With the Hod assisting the Woman with
the Trowel to build themselves a stone farm-
house. “L-C/s” woman was old; both my
Women wetc young, frauleins in fact, and their
occupation gave no surprise to m.v fellow-traveller,
who swore he had seen two old fraus harnessed to the
plough down Gtitneracha way.
Another bathroom tragedy in Sydney
reminds of the danger of the gas bath-heater.
With a little careless manipulation the bath'
heater develops into a high explosive of deadly
force —something suitable to be thrown at a Grand
Duke in Warsaw, But that is only one of its
dangers. If the heater is not properly ventilated,
and the bath-room, as is often the ease, also lacks
ventilation, choke-damp is formed by the com-
bustion of the gas. A whiff of it causes the
bather to faint, and then, whilst prone on the
floor, death is a matter of a few seconds, for the
deadly choke-damp, by reason of its specific
gravity, sinks to the floor level as it is formed.
The girl who was overcome by the fumes while
drying herself, and dropped with her towel in her
hand, simply fell into a dense stratum of poison
and died. She would have had a better chance
if she had dropped into the same depth of water,
and her case wouldn't have been much worse if
she had dropped into 2ft. of strychnine.
“ S.” : It always makes me mad to see a
little Australian done up in kid gloves, and I am
frequently mad, the sight being very common
now-a-times. ' I’m not exactly Nebuchadnezzar,
but I can remember the time when you rarely saw
a grown Australian in gloves, but it seems to me
that now every second fool-mother is discontented
with her lot unless she can afford to crowd little
Willie’s hands into tight, hard, skin mits, ancf
make a helpless boy-martyr of him. It’s all pari
of the ghastly mummery of respectability, because’
the gloves are no use to the boy, and cripple his
hands so that he’d be little worse off without
fingers of any kind. Gloves on children are a
cruelty and crass folly. A youngster’s fingers
learn by use and effort. The hand that is encased
in kid gloves for any considerable time is
badly handicapped in the race for dexterity, and
this is an age in which manual dexterity is of vast
importance. A big prestidigitateur, explaining
how touch and suppleness were developed in his
hand, said to me: “I would as soon think of
putting a mask over my boy’s eyes as putting
gloves on his hands. Expertness in sleight-of-
hand never comes to a man who wore gloves
regularly as a kiddie.”
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
BAH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Deakin (to Mr, J. CoOk)— Bah ! (Disorder). — F’rdrrt
House of Representatives Report.
A sharp retort Of scornful sort,
tike “ Bish ! ’’ ahd “ fiobh ! i!
Is just the thihg that folk should fling
toward that crew;
Obstructionists who wave their fists,
And squeal “ Aha ! ’*
Should be suppressed with gibe and jest,
And shouts of “ Bah ! ”
With “Tush ! ” and “ Bosh ! *’ we ought to squash
Their raving yell J
“Be d——d to yoU !*’ and “ Dicken ! ,J too,
f Would do as well,
Ih Deakin’s praise we’d gladly raise
The loud “ Hurrah ! ”
If only lie would readier be
iii saying “ Bah ! ’’
High iii the Air, with effort rate.
We’d Chuck otir hats,
if he came out with insult stout.
And Hollered “ Rats ! ! ’
His words polite may sound all right.
But better far
Were“ Bunkum !” 11 800 !”“Haha ! *’ and ‘ iioo! ’’
Conjoined with “ Bah I ”
Vie.
A. Y.
COALS OF FIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M. Biard D’Aunet. 12 years Consul-General for France
in Australia, has, on his return to France, written a long
article in the Revue des Deux Mondes on “Societie eu
Australie,” in the course of which, it is alleged, he
declares his inability to say anything of Australian litera-
ture “ because, during his 12 years’ residence in Sydney>
he ivas never able to find any ! ”
Now does our country’s Countenance
Show sadness and distress?
Do poets all in anger glan. e
At this unkindliness?
Do poetasters look askance
And wicked thoughts express?
No poetry ? And no romance?
What gall and bitterness !
Yet do not call it ignorance,
Though it may seem no less !
The man admires us more, perchance,
Than he will fain confess !
Let us not curse at this mischance,
But rather let us bless !
Vive Biard D’Aunet ! Vive la France !
Toujours la piolitesse!
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
A SPLENDID BOOT for 16/6
THIS 16s. 6d. boot is selling' freely. It’s a boot of great wearing
qualities—full of summer comfort—made of box calf and cal-
culated to give the longest wear and the maximum amount of all
round satisfaction. It is a combination of attractiveness and pure
comfort. Has medium round toe, whole golosh, and not too stout
a sole.
FILL IN THIS COUPON and MAIL TO US.
I enclose 16s. 6d., and 9d. extra for postage,
in for one pair of your 16s. 6d. boots,
conditionally, that you will exchange the
boots or return the money if not suitable.
My size is
NAME
ADDRESS.
16/6
9d. EXTRA,
POST FREE,
Men’s & Boys’ Outfitters,
PEAPES & CO., Ltd
+ *309-311 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY


The WILD CAL COLUMN
Two years ago the open market rate for money
in London was 2J per cent. ; 12 months ago it was 3J per
cent. ; now, on a rise in the Bank of England rate, it has
gone to 4$ per cent. So great has been the drain upon
the Bank of England, mostly for America, that its coin
and bullidh has been sweated from £37,051,000 to
£29,119,000 in two years ; and Consols have got down to
S6§. It is a blue outlook for Australian States that have
loans falling due ; and it might easily amount to a
desperate situation if, most fortunately, Australia had
not itself ha 1 a run of three extra-good seasons. The
latter circumstance not only temporarily puts up Aus-
tralia’s credit with Bull, but in some measure makes
Australia independent of him for the time being. Aus-
tralia is, therefore, likely to get one advantage out of the
unusual dearness of money in England: Treasurers who
are forced to soon face the 1.0. U. will be almost driven to
borrow in Australia for the purpose of paying off part, at
least, of the foreign debt.
• • •
In the .matter of its public debt, S. Australia
is now p.n . easy lirst. having out-distanced Queensland,
which for many vears had, per head, the Greatest Debt
on Earth. Ttfe drift into trouble in S. Australia has
been appalling.. In eight years, and without having any-
thing of consequence to show for it, it has added within
a few pence of £lO per head to its burden. The trouble
looks all the greater, and, as a matter of fact, it is all the
greater, because the population has stagnated. In 1898
it was 350,176 ; at June 30th, 1906, it was 379,881, an
increase of only 29,705 in eight years ; whereas the popu-
lation of Queensland, in spite of its troubles, has risen
from 471,510 in 1898 to 528,048 in Dec., 1905 —an increase
of 85 p.c. in the case of S. Australia, and of 11'9 p.c. in
Queensland. , The progress of the debt in the two States
is shown hereunder :
Queensland. S. Australia.
' ■ *
Total Debt. Per Head. Tooal Debt. Per Head.
1900.. £34,3491414 £6B 210 £26,156,180 £73 2 5
1901.. 36,850,314 73 1 2 26,423,805 73 3 6
1902.. 39,338’,427 76 5 1 27,272,645 74 18 5
1903.. 41,031;247 78 16 3 27,828,370 76 410
1904.. 41,775,297 79 511 28,547,995 78 10 10
1905.. 41,764,467 79 011 28,727,895 78 1 1
1906.. 41,764,467 78 13 1 30,038,485 79 12 8
And as S. Australia is still borrowing, while Queensland is
raising no new loans, and has raised none for the past
three and a Half years, the gap between them promises to
go on widening'.
Of the S. Australian public debt of £30,038,485,
only £21,224,187, apart from about £1,000,000 spent on
telegraph lines, and handed over to the Common-
wealth, is in undertakings which, by any stretch
of language, can be called reproductive, and still
less of it is in works which are both reproductive and
permanent. Included is £1,066,500 which S. Australia
has paid for improvements on pastoral leases thrown
back on to the State, and another £211,594 for perishable
Jetties and lighthouses, etc. On the whole £21,224,187,
the.net return last year was at the rate of £3 10s. 2d. per
cent., while the earnings on the entire debt gave only
£2 9s. 7d. per; bent. This was in a year when the rail-
ways (representing £13,610,620 of the debt) returned
£4 6s. per cent:, ,as against £2 19s. 7d. per cent, in 1902.
To' make the .-debt pay all the interest which it
costs, assuming that the railways, etc., earn as
much as they did in the past year, S. Australia
would have to provide out of revenue approximately
£10,000,000 for the repayment of debt. The undertakings
in which it has sunk Cohen’s money are only capabl , in
an extra good season, of paying interest on the balance
of about £20,(M0,000. And, as many of those under-
takings are not ..permanent, when that £10,000,000 has
been provided, ahother £2,000,000 at least would have to
be found out of taxation to write down values so as to
cover wear and tear.
Though S. Australia has this appalling per-
centage of unproductive debt already, every addition to
it is adding a trifle more to the load ; in other words, taxa-
tion has to be piled on in order to pay the interest bill
which the loan undertakings won’t pay for themselves.
Take the growth of taxation during the period covered
by the table above :
1900 .. £2 9 0 per head | 1904 .. £2 16 6 per head
1901 .. 212 9 „ 1905 .. 219 5
1902 .. 212 2 „ 1906 .. 215 6 „
1903 .. 219 0 „ I
Meantime, to eke out the taxation, and to try to dis-
guise the fact that the more the State borrows the more
it has to tax, the public lands are being sold: The area
got rid of during the same period has each year been as
follows
1899 .. 4,941 acres 1903 .. 27,716 acres
1900 .. 11,080 „ 1904 .. 27,452 „
1901 .. 11,920 „ 1905 .. 53,816 „
1902 .. 19,832 „ 1906 .. 82,881 „
But this, while it disguises the drift of things for the
moment, only hurries on the final smash ; because every
land sale tends to reduce the permanent land revenue
from rents.
Altogether it is a gloomy situation, and all the
gloomier because S. Australia views it with dull in-
difference. It'doesn’t seem to have a notion that, on
population, it-has the greatest debt on earth. It doesn’t
seem to have a suspicion that, of its total debt, only two-
thirds is in reproductive works, and still less in perma-
nent works. It goes on borrowing regardless of the fact
that the more it borrows the bigger becomes its burden
of unproductive debt, and the heavier the taxation it
must inevitably pay to make up the deficiency. Nearly
one-half of its railway revenue depends upon a mining
field, which must be some day no more than a
number of useless holes in the earth ; yet it writes
nothing off the value of its railway lines, nor makes any
preparation to pay off the loans sunk in them. It has a
poor little sinking fund, it is true—J per cent., which it
established 10 years ago. But it has maintained that
sinking fund, which now totals £595,320, by piling up
deficits amounting to £319,237, as against surpluses of
£78,771—a net deficit in these 10 years of £240,466. As in
four years before that the net deficit was £287,607, the
sinking fund is a screaming farce. Yet S. Australia
takfes it quite seriously, and seems to have the idea that
it is doing very well. Within the next 10 years it has no
less-than £11,941,425 of debt falling due ; and it is so
full of this idea that it is doing very well that it has no
room for any suspicion fiat Cohen won’t renew the bill.
It is beginning to be doubtful whether S. Australia would
know what to do with such a suspicion even if it found it.
* • * •
The Agricultural Bank of Queensland, the
newest of the Australian State land-mortgage banks:—
Loss Net Profit
Before Interest Available
Paying Paid to for De.
June, Interest. State. Reserves, ficit.
1903 .. £289. 3 per cent. = £47 £336
Profit.
1904 .. 501 3 „ „ „ 417 £B4 252
1905 .. 826 3 „ „ „ 773 53 199
Re-
serves.
1906 .. 2,476 3 „ „ „ 2,031 445 246
Working under an amended Act, which allows of ad-
vances to pay off private Cohens, the bank has made
much greater progress during the past year. As this
shows better: —
Advances Expenses
Out- Advances Working p.c. of
standing. Repaid. Expenses. Advances.
1903 .. £6,253 £557 £8 18 2
1904 .. 20,370 £650 550 214 0
1905 .. 38,417 311 687 115 9
1906 .. 94,268 3,229 1,043 1 2 0
This expense rate is, however, exclusive of expenses of
valuation, which, for some reason, are not charged to
profit and loss. For the past year the cost of valuation
was £917 ; adding that in, the expense rate was £2 Is. 7d.
per cent. Other Australasian State Land Banks include
valuation expenses, and for purposes of comparison and
check, it is desirable that they should all work on the
same basis. Naturally the expenses for the present are
high; possibly in Queensland, where settlement is
scattered, they will be high for a long time yet. In
Westralia, when the advances were at the level now
reached by Queensland, the expenses were £1 10s. Bd. per
cent., as against Queensland's £2 Is. 7d. per cent. If,
however, Queensland can avoid losses, it needn’t worry
about 2d. in the expense rate. The State is rather inclined
to periods of exaltation with regard to its agriculture;
the State Bank trustees have a difficult job to give the
contemplated assistance and at the same time dodge
losses. Already “in seven cases properties have come
into the hands of the trustees. It is not thought probable
that there will be much loss on them.” In the present
profit and loss account £26 is written off on account of
advances and £l3 on account of interest. Considering
Queensland’s present affluent condition, that isn’t too
cheerful.
■» • « •
The Australian Alliance Assurance Co.
(Melbourne), which has at various times added £76,000 of
profits to the original paid capital of £50,000 (in the follow-
ing table the rate of dividend is calculated on the £50,000
actually' subscribed): —
Capital
Dividends on Written and Ite-
Aug., Profits. £50,000 Capital. Off. serves.
1896 ..£19,865 30 per cent. = £15,000 £10,654 £265,651
1897 .. 11,850 30 „ „ „ 15,000 14,790 247,711
Loss.
1898 .. 14,974 15 „ „ „ 7,500 439 224,798
£9236 Life Branch Surplus added to Reserves 234,034
Profits.
1899.. 18,044 25 per cent. = 12,500 14,182 225,396
1900 .. 14,779 25 „ „ „ 12,500 6,581 221,094
1901 .. 12,634 25 „ „ „ 12,500 997 220,231
1902 .. 13,593 25 12,500 46 221,278
1903 .. 7,415 25 12,500 216,193
1904 .. 17,415 25 „ „ ~ 12,500 1,225 219,883
1905 .. 10,094 10 „ „ ~ 5,000 920 224,657
£55,521, cost of Litigation over Life Branch, .
written off .. .. 169,136
1906 .. 15,328 10 „ „ „ 5,000 179,464
The results of the litigation between members of the
Life branch of this co. and the directors, over the ques-
tion of the division of surpluses, are shown in the present
accounts. Vic. Chief Justice Madden’s judgment against
the directors would have run into £113,082 and costs.
But the plaintiffs were mostly old, and not very en-
thusiastic, and the prospects of litigation were inter-
minable, so the business was compromised, and the co.
agreed to pay £50,000. This, with costs, accounts for the
£56,521 written off reserves. Altogether, the co. has
come out of the matter very cheaply. Profits from cur-
rent business have been well maintained. For many
years the co. paid excessive dividends, and, putting too
little aside for the protection of fire and marine policy-
holders, naturally made much less progress than other
less greedy or less short-sighted and impatient cos. There
seems a chance now of that foolish policy being changed ;
anyway, more than two-thirds of the past year’s profits
are laid by—the co.’s best record for as many years as
figures are available for. And the experiences otherwise
have been satisfactory :
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1890 .. £41,779 £25,754 £11,907 01’7 p.c. 28’6 p.c.
1895 .. 36,913 24,571 13,142 66‘6 „ 35‘0 „
1900 .. 48,574 25,744 13,228 53'1 ~ 27’3 „
1905 .. 54,659 33,383 16,921 61-1 „ 31’0 „
1900 .. 55,854 29,847 17,683 53'4 „ 317 „
Marine losses have been at about the usual rate (65'9 per
cent, of premiums, as against 68’5 percent, in 1905), but
the losses by fire got down to 42 - 8 per cent. Like most
Australian cos., the Australian Alliance has made some
sort of a dash to get the increased guarantee and acoident
business offering. In that connection a doubt arises as
to whether an amount of £659, shown as carried forward
in the guarantee and accident account, ought to be in-
cluded as profit (it has been included above); it may
possibl.v be a reserve against unexpired accident risks.
Apart from that item, 17’3 per cent, of the premiums in
this branch have been paid in claims, and expenses have
absorbed 44’3 per cent.
It is many years since the Australian Alliance
gave up writing new life business ; it is now merely wait-
ing for existing policies to become claims, and in that
matter the past 10 years’ history is shown hereunder -
Interest, Assurance
Premiums. &c. Claims. Expenses. Fund.
1897 ..£21,029 £10,717 £23,111 £4177 £284,786
1898 .. 17,921 10,965 27,100 4158 282,414
£9236 written off 273,178
1899 .. 16,957 10,794 24,044 3731 273,154
1900 .. 14,900 9,448 33,568 3761 260,173
1901 .. 14,340 10,416 31,237 3914 249.778
1902 .. 25,625 10,340 25,531 2743 257^469
1903 .. 11,555 10,170 38,701 3205 237,288
1904 .. 10,265 9,503 29,080 2849 225,127
1905 .. 9,010 9,046 30,517 2852 209,814
1906 .. 8,292 8,201 24,002 2292 200,013
But to this Life Assurance Fund there is payable on 28th
November £42,ooo—already taken out of the reserves of
the Ordinary branch, and shown as in suspense. As for
the investments, the published balance-sheet does not
distinguish between the assets of one branch and
another. Of the total assets of £436,285, the co.
has lent £208,889 on mortgage. Excluding what
are probably non-interest-bearing items (agents’ balances,
&c.), the return on the total assets averages about 3J
p.c. ; and as only about £5OOO is in Government stopk, it
seems pretty certain that there are many over-valued
securities in the list. Judging by the interest credited
to the life assurance account, the worst of the over-
valued securities belong, not to that account, but to the
co.
* * * *
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Asso-
ciation op Australia (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1897 .. £653 Nil £203 £390 £6665
1898 .. 374 Nil 228 146 6811
1899 .. 1283 1£ per cent. =£375 943 6776
1900 .. 1801 21 „ „ „ 750 1051 7827
1901 .. 1887 2£ ~ „ „ 750 1137 8964
1902 .. 1864 2£ „ „ „ 750 376 738 9702
1903 .. 1940 2f „ „ „ 825 2040 8777
1904 .. 2009 3 „ „ „ 900 9357 529
1905 .. 2198 3£ „ „ ~1050 1148 1677
1906 .. 2250 4i „ „ „ 1275 975 2652
This co. has had so much writing down to do that; there
is always an uneasy feeling as to whether it has got to the
bottom. Apparently, however, when the new manager
took charge, he had a preliminary cleaning-up ; and the
incoming manager who has the chance of a cleaningiup
and doesn’t make it thorough hasn’t finished his educa-
tion. Years ago, when there was no need to hide the
mess the co. got into over foolish advances to bene-
ficiaries, etc., it showed its commissions and interest-
earnings separately. The mess having been cleaned up,
and the co. having need now to restore confidence in its
investments, and to satisfy the public that its paid
capital is intact and its reserves the real thing, it ought
to revert to the old system, instead of lumping all the
earnings together. A sound trustee co. can’t give the
public too much information about itself ; it has to
inspire enough confidence to get itself trusted by a man
when he is dead and can’t revoke, and that "sort of
confidence takes some inspiring. The old. stupid,
conservative notion was that the more a co. held
its tongue and buttoned itself up and looked like an owl
the wiser it would be supposed to be, and the more to be
trusted. But trustee cos. which were run on the owl
principle had to write off so much for losses after the
boom that the public now prefers to trust a co. which
lets the public see inside, and judge for itself whether
the appearance of great wisdom and sobriety and sound-
ness is warranted. The trustee cos. that are making the
most progress are, therefore, those that don’t any longer
trade under the sign of the Owl; and the public is invited
to look for the sign, and shy off. The Perpetual of Aus-
tralia isn’t yet quite resolved whether to take the old
sign down or not. Its profits last year were at the rate
of £7 2s. 7d. per cent, on capital and reserves ; and, for a
trustee co., that is very moderate. If it took down the
s;gnof the o>vl it might reasonably look for an earl} 10
percent, return. „
The Permanent Trustee Co. of N.S. Wales:—
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves ' se'?'e„s-
-1806 .. £1034 4 per cent. =£looo £34 ±.830
icq? 5 ~ 1250 i,zo2
isos" 2249 5 1250 909 2,251
i«»:: lio 7 5 1250 1557 3,sos
1900 .. 1700 5 „ „ 1250 400 4,-58
1901 .. 2074 6 „ „ 1000 5<4 4,832
1909 2302 6 «« »» 1500 802 5,b34
1903 3939 8 2000 1939 7,573
S 82:: 4226 I ;; 2000 2226 9,799
1905.. 6724 10 ~ „ 2500 4224 14,023
1906.. 5171 10 „ „ 2500 26<1 16,694
This co. announces that it does not take credit for corpus
commissions earned but not received, which leaves the
stated earnings of the co. much less open to suspicion
than those of some trustee cos. On the other hand, it
persistently lumps together its earnings from commissions
and investments ; so, in the absence of any statement as
to the character of those investments, and in the absence
of any means of checking their earnings, the reser\ es have
to be taken wholly on trust. The business is, as hereto-
fore, remarkably profitable, however, showing a return
on capital and reserves at the rate of ±l3 ss. Id. per
cent. ; and, under the circumstances, the reserves will
probably be taken for granted. There is a still further
increase in business, as shown by the value of the estates
in hand :
1899 .. £1,230,958 1903 .. £2,279,609
1900 .. 1,350,258 1904 .. 2,438,105
1901 .. 1,365,337 1905 .. 2,533,515
1902 .. 1,552,419 1906 .. 2,562,879
The last line isn’t much of an increase ; but that may
possibly be due to larger realisations and completion of
trusts. The expenses of management are still low,
though more than they were ; they amounted for the
year to 3s. 2d. per cent.'of the capital value of estates in
hand. In the Perpetual (Sydney), the expenses amounted
last year to 3s. lOd. per cent, of trust estates. Both
figures are unusually moderate, and could only be pos-
sible with a large turnover. That part of the public,
however, which has a few sticks to leave, and which
wisely hands them over to a trustee co., in case they
should get scorched if it took them with it, isn’t much
interested in sooling trustee cos. on to a low expense-rate
competition. What the public is more interested inis
efficient service, and that generally has to be paid for.
The Permanent Trustee Co., by the way, came
none too well out of a correspondence which it lately
didn’t have with the Auditor-General. Under its Act
(the usual Trustee Oo.’s private Act) it is provided that
all beneficiary moneys unclaimed for five years shall be
paid into the Treasury, and particulars are to be given of
the estate of which any unclaimed sum forms part. But,
though there is a House whose particular job it is to
“ prevent slipshod legislation,” everybody quite forgot to
put in a provisioh whereby it could be ascertained
whether the co. had any such money in hand ; and the
Auditor-General, when he has written to ask about it,
has always been met with stony silence. The last official
remark on the subject came from the Crown Solicitor :
“ If, after further communication, the co. makes no re-
sponse, it might be advisable to consider whether or not
some new legislative provision might not be asked for
that will provide a more efficient means of obtaining the
information desired.”
* • • •
The Langridgk Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne): —
Added Nominal
Written to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1897 £2254 Nil £BB2 £1372 £27,988
1898 2472 Nil 2472 30,460
1899 2768 2 p.c.= £1682 545 541 31,001
1900 2918 U „ „ 2024 283 611 31,612
1901 3149 3 „ „ 2382 1924 30,455
1902 3962 31 „ „ 2703 2729 28,985
1903 3981 3J „ „ 2605 853 463 29,448
1904 4225 4 „ „ 3042 1378 29,253
1905 4335 4 „ „ 3012 5401 25,175
1906 4404 4 „ ~ 2966 2514 24,099
Of the reserves £14,834 is a contingent fund, which is
beingsteadilv drawn upon (theamountsdrawnbeingshown
as written off) to make up the difference between the
book value and the realisation value of securities sold.
These foreclosed properties stood in the books last year at
£54,245 ; this year they stand at £48,188, or £6257 less.
Apparently, however, there have been some fresh fore-
closures during the year to bring the properties in hand
up to the total mentioned. During the past two years,
according to figures in the directors’ report, but not
traceable in the accounts, properties have realised £9241.
Add the amounts written off (£7915), and £17,156 appears
to have been their book value. That is, the properties
realised just under 54 p.c. of book values. Probably the
later foreclosures would pan out better than that ; but if
that is the real average value of the lot, the properties in
hand are worth about £26,000, and would have to be
written down by about £22,000, which wouldn’t leave
much of the reserves intact. Whether this is any-
where near the mark or not, it is certain pretty severe
writing-down is called for, as on the average value
of these securities in the past year the gross
return was 5| p.c., and the net return, after
paying rates, insurances, and repairs, 2f per cent. A
steadily-expanding amount of profitable new business is,
however, being done almost exclusively with undivided
profits and the proceeds of sales (the deposits amount to
only £12,502, as against £12,166 in 1905); expenses are
kept moderate ; and generally the outlook is, for a build-
ing society, fairly bright. The only distinct smudge on
the record is the maintenance of fictitious values for pro-
perties, though even there it is set out every time that
the assets have not been written down to'cover depreci-
ation. On capital the year’s profits showed £5 18s. per
cent., which means that reserves are getting £1 18s. per
cent of profits.
* * * *
The Newcastle and County Mutual Build-
ing, Land and Investment Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.):—
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1897 .. Nil. £4336
1898 .. £939 2£ per cent. = £639 £lO5O 3586
£2501 Forfeited Capital added to Reserves .. 6087
1889 .. 1599 24 per cent. = 641 1123 5922
1900 .. 1502 4 „ „ „ 1024 631 5769
1901 .. 1439 5 „ „ „ 1281 1209 4718
1902 .. 1710 5 „ „ „ 1281 708 4439
1903 .. 1543 5 „ „ „ 1281 790 3911
1904 .. 1784 5 „ „ „ 1281 139 4275
1905 .. 1578 5 „ ~ „ 1281 126 4446
1906 .. 1598 6 „ „ „ 1537 390 4117
This co., which has reached its 21st year, had a tem-
pestuous childhood, and the balance-sheet of 1897 showed
5312 shares forfeited out of 30,884 issued. On the other
side £8434 had been put aside to meet depreciation of
property. This special reserve has been gradually written
off, as re-valuations have been made, and especially as old
properties (and probably some new ones) have been
realised, till now it stands at £2268. Meantime a debit
balance at profit and loss of £4097 in 1897 has been turned
into a credit balance of £IS49, after paying the dividends
for the past and previous years. This latter change has,
however, been partly brought about by the disposal of
£2501 of forfeited capital, which was passed through the
profit and loss account, under a rather remarkable sys-
tem of book-keeping which prevailed in the office. The
progress made in some other respects is shown here-
under : .
1897. 1900. 1905. 1906.
Advances .. £12,033 £20,099 £31,033 £28,149
Properties (fore-
closures, &c.).. 26,787 23,030 16,502 16,080
Deposits .. .. 1,844 4,234 11,404 12,743
Other liabilities.. 4,741 6,504 4,803 238
The increase of advances, the reduction of property
(mostly foreclosures), and the recent paying off of the
overdraft are satisfactory features. Thei reduction in
the property item is to some extent due to the fact that,
although most of the amounts shown as written off have
gone to make up the difference between book and reali-
sation values, considerable amounts have been written
off values on the reappraisement of assets. Ten years ago
the balances and properties showed a return of ±3 ss. 4d.
per cent. ; in 1900 it had reached just 4 per cent. ; last
year it was £6 6s. per cent. Altogether a very good
recovery is thus shown by the co., though that did not
warrant it in putting up the dividend for the past year to
a figure which, with the allowance for depreciation, made
a call of £329 upon the reserves —especially as it is doubt-
ful whether a considerable part of those reserves have
still anything more than a paper existence.
»'* * *
The Excelsior Land, Investment, and Build-
ing Co. and Bank :
Interest
Business Loss on Total PaidtoDe- De-
July, Profit. Property. Loss. positors. ficit.
1897 .. £3,833 £10,240 £6,407 Nil £32,932
1898 .. 449 2£p.c. 32,483
Loss. #
1899 .. 1,939 1,939 2£ „ 34,422
1900 .. 1,987 65,208 67,195 2£ „ 101,617
1901 .. 342 342 2£ „ 101,959
Profit. Profit.
1902 .. 30 30 2£ „ 101,929
Loss. Loss.
1903 .. 82 82 2i „ 102,011
Profit. Profit.
1904 .. 58 58 2J „ 101,953
1905 .. 214 214 2£ „ 101,739
1906 .. 465 465 2£ „ 101,274
This profit includes profit on land sold—£lBoB for the past
year. Revenue apart from that was £1251, against which
there were expenses running to £2087, besides commis-
sion and legal expenses (£201), the latter probably in-
curred in connection with the sales. Land, buildings,
plant, and stock stand at £39,305; they returned
gross £7B9—just about 2 per cent. Still, a profit
is being made on recent realisations, though heavy
expenses more than mop it up. Since 1890 £lO,OOO of
mortgages and £34,575 of deposits have been paid off ;
total £44,575. To do that advances and mortgages have
been reduced by £16,143, and land, etc., by £30,439,
while cash balances have been increased by £2284 ; net
total, £44,298. So it has taken £44,298 of property to pay
off £44,575 of debt. There still remain £32,058 of
deposits and £6OOO of mortgage, or a total of £38,058, to
be paid ; and to pay it there are £6513 of advances, £2284
cash, and £39,305 of land, buildings, etc.—the land,
buildings, etc., that are yielding 2 per cent, gross.
Nothing seems to be gained by prolonging the expensive
agony. Many depositors have already “cut it” by
taking properties in exchange, and the sooner the rest of
them do the same the sooner a totally unnecessary drain
upon them for expenses will be stopped.
* # * *
Westralian gold output:—
1905 1906 Shrinkage.
September only 163,2970 z. 134,0200 z. 29,2770 z.
Nine months .. 1,469,353,, 1,345,653 ~ 123,700,,
The shrinkage appears likely to continue.
* * « •
The Kalgurli (W.A.) continues to open out
well, and, on merits, is one of the best mining invest-
ments in the State. The estimated net profit in sight,
after deducting all charges, including income-tax and
div. duty, but not depreciation, works out at 1525. 6d.
per share ; and, so far as one can judge, the life of the
mine will be a long one. 00. is now earning a monthly
profit of £21,500, which leaves a big margin, after paying
the 7s. 6d. quarterly div.
* * • •
Boulder Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, next div.,
payable on Oct. 26, is Od. per share only, or £35,000,
against Is. paid six months ago. Yet the profits for
August were alleged to be £15,080, and for July £19,330.
The fact, as mentioned here more than once, is that the
figures are totally misleading, as only stoping and treat-
ment are charged for. These two items total 175.6 d. per ton.
If development, “general,” realisation, upkeep, head-office
exes., and div.-tax were included, as is done in the case
of, say, the Ivanhoe, the profit for August would be re-
duced from 19s. to 11s. 6d. per ton, or £9lOO. Even this
allows nothing for depreciation, or British income-tax.
Apart from this, the Perseverance’s two lowest levels are
looking very poor, and, since Burrowe replaced Klug in
the management, the output has been forced. Like its
neighbor, the Lake View Consols, co. is moving towards
Queer-street, and, as there are 1,400,000 shares issued, or
four times as many as in Lake View, the chances are
that there will be a further depreciation in the scrip.
• • • *
Bay ley’s, Coolgardie (W.A.), has got rid of all
tributors, and the co. is again working the leases. Of
three parties only one got anything. A reef 3ft. to
4ft. wide was cut at a depth of 70ft., and 576 tons of stone
yielded 14760 z. This reef is situated about 200 ft. west of
and parallel to the original Bayley’s Reward reef. The
tributors were all working on the north leases, right
away from the co.’s own workings. There is a very long
stretch of practically virgin country extending right
north to Lindsay’s Consols, and it seems absurd for the
co. to cancel the tributes, seeing that it is not too flush
of cash, and was getting this ground tested free of cost.
* * • *
Sandstone Development, Black Range (W.A.),
has been floated. Co. is in 250,000 shares of ss. each, of
which vendors get 120,500 fully paids, and £4OOO in cash,
while 29,500 shares are held in reserve. About 70,000
shares have been applied for. Calls are due as follows:
Is. on application, Is. each on October 1, January 1, April
1, and July 1. This property consists of 256 acres, chiefly
the deep-level blocks of the Oroya Black Range, but it
also has an outcrop of its own in the northern leases.
The property is a very fair mining venture, and as a rail-
way to the field is projected, facilities for cheap mining
may shortly be given. At present the district is 100
miles from the railway, and very inaccessible.
* * * *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), shows no
tendency to improve at the thirteenth level. The north
drive has been extended 350 ft., and for the full distance
the lode is unpayable. In the bottom of the winze from
the twelfth level the ore was better when first cut, but,
in driving south, it has gradually become poorer as it
approaches the drives from the shaft. The latest esti-
mate of ore reserves is only 677,500 tons, worth 455. 9d.
per ton, as against 753,000 tons, worth 555. 6d. per ton on
January 1. The monthly returns are to be reduced to
£35,000, which means that the ore to be treated is worth
about 325. per ton only. It seems absurd to estimate the
grade of ore at 455. 9d., and then say that the results
will only pan out at 325. The falling-off in grade will
reduce profits to about £12,000 per month, which means
that the quarterly div. will have to be reduced to 2s. 6d.
With the poor outlook in the bottom levels, and this
decline in the div., Fingall scrip cannot be regarded as
good holding.
• * * •
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), lately taken Qver
by the Princess Royal Central on the latter’s absorption
by the Princess Royal, is a pretty good property, as far as
one can judge now. There are two underlay shafts on the
leases down to 150 ft.. connected at that depth. In all
400 ft. of driving has been done at this level; the work
has exposed a reef Bft. wide, worth 60s. per ton. The shaft
is being taken down another 80ft., and at that point
further opening-up will be done. The lease is at present
under six months option, and it will certainly be acquired
if the next level proves as good as the 150 ft.
* * * »
The Red Hill (W.A.) is looking very poor in
the bottom levels, and, unless a marked improvement
soon occurs, the mine will be closed down. The co. has a
second string to its bow in the Sons of Erin North,
Higginsville, between Coolgardie and Norseman—a recent
find. But the latter will never make a big mine, as the
reef is too small. A lot of work is being done around
Red Hill, so holders may yet be rewarded for their
patience, without the help of the Northei/i Irishman.
* * » *
Black Range Co. (W.A.) continues to distribute
regular divs. of £1687 10s. monthly, and should soon do
better, as the old rattletrap battery, once on the
Hainault, is being replaced bv an up-to-date 20-head
mill bought from the defunct Frazer’s South Extended.
Reef has been opened up at 100 ft. and 200 ft., and has
given very consistent results so far. The co. used to be
in 6750 shares, but was recently split into 80,000, of which
original holders got 67,500, and 12,600 are in reserve.
* * * «,
Lead has touched £2O per ton, by far the
highest price reached since Australia began to take much
interest in the substance. In 1872 it was up to £2O 3s.
The eastern States had not then developed any lead
mines, but Westralia began to send away a little* heavy-
galena from Northampton as stiffening for wool cargoes.
In the early part of the last century as much as £35 15s.
was recorded ; that was in 1806; and from that on to
1825, £25 was frequently topped. When Australia began
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY
Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrasher*, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c 7
BRUNTON’S BCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &0.
ARTHUR L£PLASTRIjER, Managing Director.


to turn out lead in quantity 22 years ago, from £ll to £l3
was reckoned a fair figure ; and for the first 15 years,
down to 1898, the best quotation was £l5 10s., and the
worst £9. In 1900, £l7 17s. 6d. was reached, which was
Broken Hill’s best prior to the present boom. How
long the price is going to last nobody knows. The
longer a man lives in the lead business, the
less certain he gets about the future. All he knows is
that the higher the price mounts, the lower, as a rule, it
presently plunges- And when it starts to plunge, there
are no half-measures about it. In 1900 it went to £l7 17s.
6d. ; before 1901 was out, it saw £ll. The man who
figures up the value of his lead-mine on a boom-price
hasn’t, therefore, long to wait, as a rule, to see his figures
floating in the soup.
Zinc moves in sympathy with lead, and, putting
on nearly £1 in a week, has got to £2B 2s. 6d. Still, it
has been higher than that —it was higher in 1899, and
again last year—which suggests that the talk of a big
production from such a comparatively new source as
Broken Hill has had its effect, and that under normal
conditions a lower level than has hitherto been regarded
as normal will prevail. During the previous lead boom
(1899-1900) spelter got up to £2Blos. ; when lead fell down
(mm £l7 17s. 6d. to £ll, spelter fell to £l6. During the
silver boom (1890), which also affected lead, spelter got up
to £2S 10s. ; by the time silver had got down to 2s. 3id.
(and lead to £9), spelter had fallen to £l4 15s. If the
Zinc Corporation can’t see any decent profit ahead with
the metal at its present price, what sort of a hope has it
got if the market turns tail upon it ?
» * * *
From a Broken Hill man : “ The Zinc Corpora-
tion has just about found out enough to show that it paid
too much for its whistle. With feverish haste the im-
ported ‘zinc expert,’ and those who still consent to
work under him, are trying the last resources in metal
recovery, and with but indifferent success. The Zinc
Corporation is slowly and painfully realising that few
processes give payable returns; and do what they will,
its people don’t seem to be able to produce a concentrate
which will ensure the Corporation a decent profit on its
excessive capital. Block 10 tailings, purchased for 6s. 6d.
l' er ton, are worth about 23 per cent, zipc, while the
South mine dump, secured for 3s. 6d. a ton, averages
about 15 per cent. These tailings have to be conveyed
by rail to the Corporation’s works, and what with labor
on the dump, wear and tear on material, railage, &c., the
cost will amount to at least Is. 3d. per ton of tailings.
The cost of treatment may begotdown tolOs.perton, but
it will probably be more. Multiply these by :it will
take 3£ tons of tailings to make one of concentrates. Total
£ll7s. 6d. It may take even more than tons, in which
case the figures will be more. Returning charges will
tot up to £5 per ton. That is a total of £6 17s. 6d. Add
6s. 6d., multiplied by 3£ for cost of Block 10 tailings ; total,
£ ‘ 19s - per ton of product. Twist figures as the co.’s
officers will, they can’t allow for losses, and see a sure
profit after paying that.”
* * * *
Ihe average Broken Hill wage-getter,' skilled
or unskilled, is an independent person. The older
managers know his little ways, and play their cards
accordingly. But Bewick, Moreing and Co. haven’t been
long enough on the Barrier to understand the “ Jack’s as
good as his master” principle; and so things happen.
Recent events at the Zinc Corporation’s works read,
like a chapter from Exodus. Things have come to
that pass now that in Broken Hill of a morn-
ing, before one asks u'hether the Czar has 'been
assassinated, one inquires whether any more Zinc
Corporation officials have retired. An unchronicled
item of the exodus is the dismissal of a shift-boss at the
Potter plant, on the British. This was a mere trifle in
itself. But what sent the cold shivers down the unbend-
able spine of the management was that the whole shift
except two followed the discarded boss out of the plant;
and when the mill superintendent turned up that night,
he was confronted by two utterly insufficient men. The
plant had therefore to remain idle till next day.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop. div. of 2s. (id. per share,
which means £120,000, following close on the North’s 2s.
6d., might have excited the market, only, at almost the
same moment, came word that the Bank of England dis-
count rate had gone up to an unusual 5 per cent., which
means dear money in London ; and the Bull market for
practically all Australian stocks sagged. The B.H. Prop,
div. is paid quarterly ; if 2s. 6d. could be paid reg'ularly
(that, is when lead drops to £lO or so as well as while it
is nearly £2O), the return on present market price would
be .'ll£ per cent, per annum. As the B.H. Prop, is only a
mine, after all, redemption of capital must be allowed for
outof that return. Under the circumstances, ahalf-crown
isn’t anything specially alluring.
* * * *
The Junction, Broken Hill, is losing a capable
and conscientious manager in C. H. Beaumont. Since
February last , the mine has been in difficulties sufficient
to break the heart of any manager, and the Board in
Adelaide has added to those difficulties in many ways.
The burning-awa.v of the timbers by the recent fire
allowed the ground in the vicinity to come down, and at
one-point of the fire-area a solid mass of half-smelted ore
and charred timber blocks a crosscut and drive near
M‘lntyre’s shaft. From the 400 ft. to the 450 ft. level
MTntyre’s shaft resembles a number of bent and
twisted pieces of wood and iron hung in a narrow
chimney. On all sides gangways have had to be
opened up through the broken ground, levels cleaned up,
and the ricketty old mine propped and stayed like a wind-
blown shanty. All this is slow work, and until it is
finished and the shaft sunk to the next level, the Junc-
tion has only two places from which to tear out ore.
Through the vyhole of the harassing period of fire and
flood only one member of the Board visited the mine. He
arrived in the morning, and returned to Adelaide the
same night. He didn’t even go below. Yet on the
strength of the colossal ignorance thus acquired, the
Board interferes with the manager, and “directs the
policy.” To the heart-breaking job of “managing”,
J. H. Stockdale now succeeds Beaumont.
* * * *
Apropos the coming advance in pay on the
Barrier, shaftmen in the Junction North, Broken Hill
are already getting 12s. a shift instead of 10s.—to en-
courage them to belt into the dangerous work of taking
the kinks out of the shaft.
* * * *
Harden Co: disserves a vote of thanks from that
of N.S.W.. which dabbles in gold-mining. Mostly
the business has been run on guesswork and round
numbers. Anything like sampling the mines has
been almost unheard of ; and itemising costs has
been practically unknown. The Harden was started
by a couple of young Sydney engineering graduates who
had good experience in Westralia, and brought over some
Westralian gold and the best of Westralian methods to
put into a N.S. Wales mine. They had the luck to strike
a show which, though in an old district that had been
scratched about for 30 years, has turned out a good deal
better than it promised. It is quite possible, however,
-i rnethods would have resulted in just the same
old failure. The co.’s reports are now the best issued by
S'W N.S.W. gold-mining business ; they give the share-
holder and the public so much information that they
knock out 50 per cent, of the gambling eleni ent in mining
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), the boom of just 12.
months ago, has been driven to make its first call. Cer-
tainly it had only £2OOO to start with.
* * * *
It must have been gall and wormwood to the
members of the coal and shipping cor.bine to notice that,
the day after the agreement was made known, stock in
the Newcastle Wallsend Co., the one big concern outside
the “ vend,” jumped 7s. fid.
* * ■» *
Vic. Premier Bent looks coldly and suspiciously
upon the Newcastle coal “vend.” For some years Vic.
had an idea that it was being fleeced in the matter of its
railway coal supplies ; last time, when contracts were
mentioned, Bent announced that, if prices were not
reasonable, the State would put on its own colliers. The
agreement not to supply any inter-State ships except
those of the Adelaide, Howard Smith, MTUvraith-
McEaeharn, and Huddart-Parker lines spoils any little
scheme of that sort; wherefore Premier Bent is natu-
rally annoyed.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) is in travail, and a band of
crape is not needed on the arm of Launceston folk to
show that they are pretty hard hit over the share-
collapse. Co. not long since reached the £2,000,000 mark
in the dividend list. The “plucky investor,” as usual,
seemed to think that this meant that another £2-,000,000
of profits was ahead, so shares went up to above
£5O. Fortnight in, and fortnight out, the public
was told that the ground was low-grade, so
it cannot blame manager Kayser for not hint-
ing that things were hardly altogether O.K. Still,
the public, as a rule, wants to have the handwriting
as big as a street poster. So it comes as a shock to
be told that the average of 100 tons per month
of tin concentrates may have to drop to about
60 tons. Even then Kayser does not seem too
sanguine that that yield will be kept up. There
was, certainly, no very definite statement in the half-
yearly report to lead to the belief that hard times were
ahead. This is where cause for complain may lie. All
the same, it did not require a magnifying glass to see
that all w>s not right when the directors, months
back, started to look about for another mine.
What brought about the collapse was the sudden failure
of No. 3 bench. The worst feature is that the deep
ground has been prospecting poorly, both in the workings
and where the diamond drill has been at work. Directors
say they may visit the mine shortly. If they don’t go
soon, shareholders will change the “may” into “must.”
More than that, as they have a big reserve, they ought to
cast about a little more vigorously for a new property to
make up the present-day shortcomings of the old.
* * * »
The profits of Mount L.yell (Tas.) this past half-
year will pan out at about £300,000.
■*■*!*'*
Ballarat (Vic.) quartz-mming is a very dim star
these times. Here are the district’s July-September
quarter returns Stone crushed, 49,953 tons ; yield,
13,5050 z. ; average per ton, sdwt. 7gr. In the previous
quarter 41,988 tons g'ave 11,928J0z., average sfdwt. Divs.
were apportioned : Victoria United, £lOOO ; First Chance,
£5OO ; Llanberris No. 1, £6OO ; Llanberris, £lOO ; total,
£2200. In the previous quarter £6OOO was divided. So
little faith have Ballarat folk in their own mines that they
were but miserable contributors to the South Star re-
vival. Hence, should any glory result from that work, no
halo ought to swim about their brows.
* + * •
The tender solicitude displayed by some
Ballarat folk for Bent over the resumption of South Star
crushing is funny indeed. Because Bent advanced £5OOO
to sink the co.’s shaft from 2500 ft. to 3000 ft., the credit of
getting gold at 1100 ft. belongs to him ! Bent must have
chuckled when he got the Ballarat congratulations, for
he sees in the telegram a nail on which to hang M’Grath
if he again opens his mouth re the Mines Department.
Of course, the Age came out with fat cross-heads
about the yield, for even the word Mesopotamia is not
more inspiring than is the Plateau or the royalty bone to
the Age folk. Nothing has been said about the Central
Plateau ; still, the fact remains that the credit for the
present return belongs to that show, because of its having
proved the shoot of stone to the South Star boundary.
No telescope was needed, therefore, to see that some
gold would be got in the South Star lease
when once that co. was able, to reach the reef.
The Star, like most of the Plateau shows, wanted better
prospecting in the old days when Palace Hotel Wilson
ran it. It was his luck to show where the gold was not.
W. H. Sewell is on a different tack, for he has the advan-
tage of Wilson’s pioneering. If he cannot now hit the
gold, the show is not worth much. As it is, the public
knows that the Bank of Victoria and the State advances
to the claim mean the absorption of a lot of profits before
dividends can come, so itr waits to see if the shoot is of
any size before taking shares from those who hold them.
■»•***
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has made a first effort
worthy of its classical namesake ; 5900 z. from 480 tons,
and 140 oz. in the mineral, is a respectable total. The 10-
head battery ran for 15 days, so that the duty was 3.2
tons per day, which is beyond average work in the
Ballarat division. Some figures given show the stone that
has been proved on three sides. At No. 3 level the shoot
of gold was followed for 300 ft., average size 3ft. ;
at the 220 ft. level the shoot is 250 ft., average size 31ft. ’
with the reef unproved to the surface. This does "not
count in the spurry ground. If the stone mills up
to the average obtained, there is nothing much
better showing in the State. But will it? There is
always this flavor of doubt about Ballarat “goes,”
and Daylesford reefs have not maintained their rich-
ness at depth. Shareholders can work out future
profits for themselves, as about £5OO per fortnight will
cover exes. Directors evidently think they are on a good
wicket, as another 10-head is to he added to the battery.
The next, flutter will be when the crosscut reaches the
lode at 380 ft. There is no great distance to go; so over-
sold “ birds ” are already wondering whether they are to
be plucked again, or are to be left with a few feathers to
fly with.
* * * *
For September Charters Towers (Q.) mines gave
22,478 tons for' 12,843qz. . mill gold, worth £42,126.
Smelters and returns froih other sources brought the
total value to £79,234 for the month. This shows an in-
crease in the output compared with the previous month,
but the value per ton has not been maintained. The
cyanide works contributed £15,458 from 20,942 tons
treated. The works have, nowadays; only the residues
to treat as they come from the mills. In August 21,563
tons were crushed, and 23,716 tons cvanided. For that
surplus in the tonnage of residues they drew upon the
accumulations stacked on the drying grounds.
* * * *
There is nothing certain about Charters Towers
mines at present, excepting the calls. Dividends may
grow less, but calls keep up. So far this year the field
has mopped ap £99,590 in calls. Last month was respon-
sible for £8842. Dividends for the month u-ere £12,500,
the only distribution being a quarterly Is. from the Bril-
liant Extended ; total for the field for nine months,
£131,952. Brilliant Central has failed to hold its own in
the dividend list by a long way. Last year by this time
the co. had paid £20,000, against £7500 for the first three
quarters of 1906. Brilliant St. George is another slumper
—£36,000 for nine months last year; £lO,BOO this year.
Brilliant Block, Queen Cross, Queen Central, Ruby, and
Ruby United, all dividend-payers last year, have, so far,
not put in an appearance.
* * • *
Brilliant Extended heads the list as a producer
of stone at Charters Towers; last month 4600 tons were
crushed for 14420 z. Next comes Mills’ with 3843 tons for
13540 z. ; Block and Wyndham, 2140 tons for 7550 z. •
Kelly’s, 1088 tons, 5600 z. ; Queen Cross, 1558 tons,’
12740 z. ; Brilliant Central, 1460 tons, 8530 z.; Alexandra’
822 tons for 10290 z.; St. George, 1563 tons for 7340 z. •
Marshall’s, 430 tons for 2630 z.; Phoebe, 254 tons for 1550 z. •
Victory (Clark’s shaft), 135 tons for 1270 z. ; Victory, 211
tons for 1660 z. ; Mystery, 39 tons for 6oz. ; Dav Dawn
P.C., 412 tons for 4720 z.
* * * *
Marshall’s Queen, Charters Towers (Q.), does
not improve with age, which is a way mines have. For
the last six months it has just been paying its way. A while
ago it was not even doing that. In all 2200 tons of stone
was swept up and sent to the battery for 16830 z. ; with
residues this was worth £8250, equal to £3 15s. per ton
This would have been very nice if expenses had not
swallowed £6369, leaving £lBBl to play with after six
months’ toil. The directors report says that they were
“ pleased to be able to pay a sixpenny dividend, amount-
ing to £2400, out of the profits.” When the board is
clever enough to pay £2400 in divs. out of a profit of
£lBBl, the marvel is to find an overdraft of £407 on the
balance-sheet.
When a mine lobs on its feet after.a severe fall,
as Kelly’s Queen did at Charters Towers, the next
remarkable thing- as a rule is the amount of valuable
prospecting work it does for the adjoining properties. At
least so the other mines say. Every level or winze that
Kelly’s are working in, is, according to the other fellow,
dipping straight into the heart of this other fellow’s lease.
In six months Kelly’s turned out 3137 tons, worth £18,746,
an average of £5 19s. 6d. per ton. This high average will
not be maintained throughout this term. In March of
this year 1077 tons returned £10,143, equal to, roughly,
£9 Bs. 7d. per ton, while last month 1088 tons gave only
£3312. It’s a serious drop from £9 to £3 a ton in six
months, and would have caused a heated discussion in
almost any other mining town except Charters Towers.
Expenditure ran to £8989, while' receipts total £18,831.
Two dividends of fid. each were paid, which w'ith the tax
took £7560. Office expenses sucked up £352 in six
months, and the mine still retains a grip on £9OOO.
* * * *
A ‘ ‘ report on the principal copper properties
at Cloncurry (N.Q.),” by W. P. Rutherford, of the Tharsis
Copper Co., “and Mr. Kitchener, brother of Lord
Kitchener,” is being scattered round —mostly in London,
where it was printed. “ Mr. Kitchener, brother of Lord
Kitchener,” apparently didn’t write any of the - report;
and why his name .was dragged into the argument isn’t
obvious. Also, it isn’t obvious why the report is being
scattered now. It was written, anyhow, in July, 1904,
and a good deal has happened in two and a quarter years.
Rutherford’s opinion of the Duchess was that “very
little work will prove it to be a surface aggregation
and generally-—“lt is from rich pockets that all the
ore is being mined. A large number of claims, examined
show that they cut out at or about the water level 50
or 60ft. below the surface.” By way of preface, somebody
unknown asks—“ What did Willcocks” (he spells him
“Wilcox”) “pay for those mines? Were they not
abandoned blocks, condemned by an English engineer?”
That should nave settled it. No mine has any right to
be a mine after it has been “condemned by an English
engineer.”
Apparently the “ biggest wolfram deposit
known ” that John Moffat was said to have his eye on
is the Mt. Carbine (N.Q.); anyway, he, or his Irvinebank
Co., has secured a two-thirds interest in it, and only paid
a very few hundreds to get in. Queensland Govt.
Geologist Dunstan is credited with the opinion that there
is a true lode here, which may go down to almost any
depth ; and the claim is within 45 miles of rail at
Mareeba.
* * * *
The down-South public is being tempted now
into North Queensland tin concerns. The Endeavor and
Leslie Co. has just been rushed off in Sydney and Mel-
bourne—“in 1000 shares of £l2 10s. each, of which the
promoters receive 430,” it is announced in the daily
papers. Not a word of the fact that the promoters also
take the bulk of the subscribed capital. The public
should not touch this thing unless after personal in-
quiries ; those that Tub Bulletin have made give unsatis-
factory results.
* * * *
Tin shows in North Queensland are having a
burst of prosperity. But the future of the industry
depends on a reduction in costs for carting and milling.
Avsyage value per ton of ore is about £3 ; with tin at
£l2O the same class of ore would be worth about £2,
which, und'-r present conditions, would leave very little
profit margin. Lass o’ Gowrie, Stannary Hills, is a bright
spot—77 tons for a return worth over £2OOO.
* « • »
There is joy in Coen (N.Q.), away up north of
Cooktown. The Great Northern struck a rich leader,
which expanded into 6ft. of good stone, from which 400
tons yielded 35dwt. per ton, and another 500 ton crush-
ing cleaned-up for 1400 oz. This has led to a ss. dividend,
biiss, and refreshments.
* * •* *
Keats, of Tolhurst, Gumming and Keats, the
Chillagoe Co.’s brokers goes to England to get J. Bull to
finance the Chillagoe-Georgetow.n (Q.), line, for which
engineer Frew is making a check survey.
* ♦ * »
Last month’s output of the Yulean, Irvine-
bank (Q.), was worth £5BBO, from 1150 tons of tin stone.
A 3d. dividend takes £3300, so there is £2580 to pay ex-
penses and cover depreciation, and the hope of more than
3d. a month looks vain. Atone point where driven into
the lode is barren of tin ; but there is nothing to get
alarmed over in that. The enormous ore-pipe at the
Vulcan gets poorer at its outer extremity, and richer
towards the centre.
* * « *
The present returning charges at the Cockle
Creek (N.S.W.) smelter run to £3 15s. per ton. The
Mungana (Q.) co. made a supposed profit of £21,609 from
9052 tons of lead ore and 2596 tons of copper ore. The
total value of this at average prices for lead, copper, and
silver was about £50,000. If 17s. 6d. is charged for mining
ss. for railway freight, and £1 17s. for profit, there is "a
total of £2 19s. 6d., which leaves only £1 ss. 6d. to cover
Chillasroe returning charges. The more you look at it,
the more something seems to be wrong with that state-
ment of Mungana’s profit.
* * * *
Options of the Taranaki (M.L.) oil springs have
been offered to the Rockefeller crowd. There is another
American oil expert just now at Roma (Q.), where
there are signs of oil beds. He told the local
people that the Australian oil market was very
limited, and that there would be no chance of fio-ht-
ing the Trust abroad. But he suggested, in face of this
opinion, that directly the oil was tapped at Roma the
syndicate should sell out to him ! The Standard Oil
Trust has gobbled up all the Canadian refineries. It is a
mighty gobbler.
* * * *
A recent Bulletin par. giving G-. R. Gilfillan’s
thoughtful comments upon the mining possibilities of
Burma, produced a hasty prospectus of the Tassy
O’Connor Burma Prospecting and Mining Co., to be
formed for the purpose of sending Tasman O’Connor to
carry on gold mining and prospecting operations in
British Burma. As Mr. Gilfillan’s name appears in large
type at the outset of this unauthorised reprint from The
Bulletin, he wants to make it known that he is in no way
connected with the proposed spec.
♦ * * »
A. 8.8. : The basis of flotation doesn’t give the
Montana co. a hope... .D.M. : Proffered terms seem good
enough to accept... .R.R. : Watch the ordinary columns
H.J.C. : Last balance-sheet noticed July 19. A pru-
dently-managed and remarkably-prosperous concern
whose profits have doubled in less than five years • but
there are two doubts—(l) The state of Perth when the
cream has been skimmed off the mines ; and (2) will
a city go on paying such a price for its lighting as
to show a return of over 20 p.c. on capital?
i o V ',I SO J! : [nfonn(d that care is to be taken to see that
N.b. W. Government assays give more satisfaction. Anv-
thing under 2dwt. is returned as “ a trace.” ... WW R •
(1) They disagree about that as about most thine-V
(2) No. (.3) No. Dr. Jack is to report on O.K. ; report
should be available in about a month S.T. (Orano-e) •
Sorry can’t give any assayer the certificate asked for"
Trefoil : Don’t know whether you would lose more money
in B.H. Block 14 at present price or South Blocks. Both
flagrantly over-valued.
* * # „
Metallurgist Dyson struggles bravely with the
Northern Territories Smelting Co., at Yam Creek and
has turned out matte -worth about £30,000 net Much
ore is developed, but it is ziney and low grade. Dyson is
too good a man to be wasted on such a show.
* * » ,
The general manager writes that the Bendigo
Farmers and Fruitgrowers’ Co-op. Society isn’t connected
with the Co-op. Distribution Society, except that the
latter is a shareholder in the other’s jam factory.
Some of the prospectors who spend their time
pottering about outside shows near Broken Hill recall
the persistent but misguided hen that undertakes to
hatch something out of a china egg. Even if there is a
phenomenal metal market, it takes a long time to develon
a silver-lead mine, especially when there isn’t a silver-
lead mine there to develop. The country all round
Broken Hill is mineralised, and a hole put down in anv
likely-looking spot will reveal ore of some sort. But the
man who cries “Eureka” with a convincing ring in his
voice must have something more than patches of car-
bonates and tiny veins of galena to pay a dividend with
Yet that is all the majority have to offer; and still
there are “ floats.”
* * * *
“S.R.”: It is a well-known fact that a ring of
buyers has been bleeding the wolfram miners for years
An outsider has come along recently and paid the leiriti-
mate price of £lOO a ton, and the ring howls. It should
be possible for the wolfram miners to form a co-operative
co. to deal with shipments of wolfram ore. It is an easy
matter to get into direct communication with the con-
sumers. The pity of it is that Australia should possess
no manufacturing- industries for the consumption of its
own wolfram.
S>6e Best Tobacco
the world can
produce. £?
6d.
per
ounce.
3 STRENGTHS—
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.
/
o
JO
4?
/
r2oz. Tins 1/*
4oz. Tins 2/-
Boz. Tins 3/9
Sold Loose only by
A. A. MARKS,
/37G George St.
310 George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
Another factor in reducing, the mining costs,
ffPeciallv in large mines, is the general use of the “ Little
Wonder Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill, and other N.S.W. Mines, also
Westrahan Mines, use them extensively. The managers
favor these drills fo.r their great strength and simplicity,
having only one working part; also for economy in air
consumption, as they require only about 25 feet of free
air per minute. In tome, of the hardest lodes at the
Barrier, “ Wonder” Drills bore over ljin. per minute, and
in softer country as much as sin. and 6in. per minute.
Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney,
have descriptive catalogues for those interested.*
The Charlotte Plains Consolidated G. M.
Co s new Havillah Shaft has just installed a high
lift pump to make all necessary provision against
any increase in the volume of water now that they
are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This instal-
lation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
hit turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71'5 per cent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each with unqualified success.* [a]
Adams Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
percent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
103 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * #
Melbourne Punch, wrote on Ist June, 1905,
as follows with regard to the last annual report of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ The
report shows a very considerable expansion in the new
business written, which totals £876,857 as against
£779,900 in the previous twelve months, evidence of the
grown ng popularity of the society. There has been a very
gratifying expansion in the society’s operations.”*
* * * *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Oobar Stock Exchange.*
* » *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar.*
* * * *
Budgert.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field.
* » * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. , It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be Used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and . Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * •
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
*• * * * °
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee ■is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, w'rite and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbbrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteOo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagb-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiorit y
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipeshave lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering- and pipe works’
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts
and every disermtion of cast or wrought iron work.* ’
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo A
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * »
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are: Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street"
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents everv-
where.* J
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers This
order has been followed by the great firm of minim*-
engineers Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economv in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
suiered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
Sydney* ThlB COmpany stock boilera at “ Haymarket,”
• * •
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, foi the latest informa-
lon on the field.*
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained
Colhson and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Diventors y “" Pl ' aCtiCe ’ Write *>r


ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Nym.” : Re the fuss made about the
stocking of inland streams with Cold Country
Baby camel on its mother’s back, photographed
some years ago at White Cliffs (N.S.W.). It is
not an unusual sight. The calf is frequently
born while its mother is travelling with the team,
and spends its early days superciliously viewing
the saltbush scenery from the old woman’s back,
both parties apparently quite content.
fish. Can’t anything be done for our native fish,
now struggling against total extermination by
dredge, sludge, netting, night-lining, and poison-
ing ? The summer freshets carry the poisons from
the adjacent mines down the long, stagnant water-
courses, and do terrible destruction.
* * * *
When so many patent medicines contain
opium and other harmful drugs, it is a relief to
know of one that is free, and that “ one ” is
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This fact makes
it not only the best, but also the safest to use.*
“ D. H. Rob ” lodges his complaint:—
Re “Jimmie Pannikin” (B. 27 9/’O6). I have never
journeyed on the Goulburn-Crookwell (N.S.W.) line, or
the Parkes CondoboUn one, but if the trains there are
less fast than the one on the Moree-Inverell railway, it is
a brave man that travels by them. To get to Inverell
you leave Sydney at 7.20 p.m. and do 353 miles to Narra-
bri by 8 o’clock next morning. Then begins the joy. At
Narrabri, as many cars as possible are taken off, and the
passengers are crowded into the remnant; and about
half-a-mile of goods-waggons are put on. An engine of
2J-flea-power is coupled to the procession and off you go,
across 60 miles of dreary, black-soil plain to Moree, at
the staggering gait of about 17 miles an hour. After re-
pairing a ruined constitution at Moree, you get into a
still worse train, if that be possible, at 12.30 p.m. and
make a move (it is just a move and nothing more) on the
final stage. The 96 miles between Moree and Inverell
take 7J hours to accomplish. The line is as straight as
a whirlwind and is unfenced all the way from Narrabri.
The tooting of the 2£-flea-power engine is like the blast
of Gabriel’s trumpet, and the passengers join with the
engine-driver in some splendid droving feats. It is
annoying, after doing a clear run for 50yds., to have to
stop and all hands get out to help the driver wipe a sheep
or two off the wheels while the engine stands by blowing
off smoke and professing to be in a hurry. The one thing
I admire is the ingenuity of the department in making
the Moree-Inverell train worse than the Narrabri-Moree
one, because when you see the Narrabri-Moree train you
would naturally say that no train could be worse, unless
it were a wheelbarrow or a coffee-stall.
* * # •
“Nulla” : The Goulburn-Crookwell train,
which averages about 14 miles per hour, is a
rather reposeful caravan, as a recent correspon-
dent alleged, but the greatest knock-out of a
train in Australia, barring some on privately-
owned lines, is the Adelaide - Port Adelaide
suburban, where the fireman stands on the front
shaking a lunch-bell as a warning against the
practice of sleeping on the track.
* • * *
“Walfre”: “Jimmie Pannikin’s” slow
trains (B. 27/9/’00) are fliers when compared to
the Tam worth - Manilla mail. This express
carves out 30 miles in the record time of 2 hours
45 minutes—about 11 miles an hour. That is
when it runs to schedule time, which is not as
often as it might be. The engine carries a head-
lamp like a young searchlight, and a whistle that
knocks a huge hole in the atmosphere every time
it goes off. With these it scares the growing
wheat, sleeping cows, and other wild animals off
the line. It is reported that one morning a
farmer who was reaping his wheat raced the train
for three-quarters of a mile on his harvester,
drawn by four horses, and beat it by two lengths.
* * * *
The continued wet weather in the back
country has materially altered the conditions of
transit. The shearer or station express, who tore
and scurried over the plains on his faithful bike,
has disappeared. Occasionally you meet a shearer
pushing his wheel, with swag and lewt. of mud
attached, laboriously towards the nearest railway
station, and using language that recalls the old-
time bullock-driver in his most tremendous cuss
moments. Sometimes a sulky ventures out, but
generally with two horse 3 driven tandem. The
station buggy has been brought greatly into re-
quisition, four horses being used to drag it through
that flat slough of despondency, the wet plains.
Writer saw one going out yesterday, and, though
four good horses pulled it, they didn’t travel fast
enough to stop a navvy from running behind and
“pinching” a demijohn of beer, which was
foolishly exposed to view. Of course, a squatter
wouldn’t look at a navvy, still it would have paid
him to keep his eye on that one. Grass is
luxuriant, and crowfoot, salt bush and trefoil
abound.
* * * <
Mr. J. J. Fletcher, M.A., B.Sc., recently
told N.S.W. Naturalists’ Club some interesting
things about that perishing Australian—the emu.
The name is derived from the Portuguese ema or
emea, meaning a crane or large bird, and was
applied both to the cassowary, of Ceram Island,
and to the rhea, of South America. Captain
French’s narrative of the expedition to Botany
Bay (published 1789) mentions that the officers of
the fleet reckoned the Australian bird belonged
to the cassowary or ostrich class, and so called it
an emu. The first emu about which anything
definite is known was shot in March 1788. British
ornithologist Dr. Latham, to whom the skin was
sent, also classed the bird as a cassowary, and it
figured in “ Phillip’s Voyage ” (1789) as the New
Holland cassowary. Gov. Phillip, however,
thought it differed from the ostrich, or emu.
In 1816 French ornithologist Vieillot separated
the emu from the cassowary, and proposed a new
genus, to be called dromceus. Sydney aborigines
called the emu the dinnawang, maracry, marryang,
or maroang. The Carpentarian aborigines recog-
nise two species of the bird —one nocturnal, the
other diurnal in habit.
* * * *
“Yarrum”: Some time ago, a porpoise
10ft. long was stranded on the beach near Red
Head (N.S.W.). A Dudley genius conceived the
idea of getting a cheap pair of boots —“ The real
Jamaica,” he said. It took
him and another man 48
hours to strip the beast; and
he spent 265. 9d. over the
tanning process, with the
result that he had to abandon
his scheme and bury the
thing very deep. Then a
couple of stray pigs got to the
carcase, and fattened on it
in a short time. They died.
The entrails—all that was
left—were found by an old
woman’s ducks, and they
went the way of the pork.
Later on, a local savant ex-
plained to me that the por-
poise was a species of toad,
and that one would poison
creation, if it would go
round. It is nothing short
of a calamity to have a por-
poise washed ashore near a
pig and poultry farm, and
there should be a law to pre-
vent it if people are going on the land.
CAUTIOUS.
THE REV SCOTTIE : “Do ye trust the Almighty, McDougal ?”
MCDOUGAL: " Aye, mon— often.”
“Kulpara” : Found myself let in for
“drinks for the crowd ” very simply, a few years
ago. Camped at an artesian bore, and the water
from it had a temperature of 146°. We filled our
quart-pots from the bore, with the exception of
the “know-all,” who filled his from the water-
bag, and then made a wager with me that his pot
would boil as quickly as mine or any of the others.
Of course, thought I had a soft thing on, as my
water was more than
half-boiled, so took him
up at once. The quarts
were arranged along-
side the fire and given
a fair go, and my pot
had not been “bub-
bling-up” more than
two seconds when his
followed suit. Can
any reader explain
why the cold water
boils as quickly as
the hot artesian ?
Have tried it
dozens of times
since.
OLD AND WISE.
DINGO PUP (smarting from bullocky’s whip, to
leader of pack): “Sirel When should a
smart young man go for those kangaroos who
drive bullocks with their tails in their hands l ’
L EADER OF THE PAUK: “ When they are dead,
my son !”
“Periwinkle” : Re The Bulletin’s blast
of scorn (20/9/’O6) at the Worrality wave respon-
sible for the abandoning of a Weight-Guessing
Competition at a recent rural show. The sooner
these guessing swindles are abolished the better.
Here in Noahville we’ve had the same catch-
penny worked at three local gatherings—St. Pat’s
Sports, a Progress Bean-raking Shivoo, and a
Charity Carnival. The fact that the man who
dressed the sheep (whose dead weight was to be
guessed) proved victorious in every instance, and
that the said sheep were lent (alive) for the
swindle by the winner’s boss, has created warm
appreciation for the Worrality wave m this direc-
tion. Guessing the number of seeds in a pumpkin
at Agricultural Shows is another phase of busi-
ness morality that makes men sniff, especially
when the man who counts the seeds carries off the
£l6 16s. sewing machine! These are no fairy
tales.
‘ ‘ Coolibah ” : Re “ Agricola’s ” remarks
on aggressiveness of magpies (B. 27/9/’O6). A pair
of bitter mags that established spring quarters on
an ironbark tree, overlooking the main road from
Emu Creek to Toowoomba (Q.), some time back,
had a casualty list to their credit worthy of a
Yankee football team. A local resident, who left
his buggy and horses while he closed a gate, sub-
sequently walked many miles, collecting pieces of
wood and iron, to find two much-injured nags
hung on a wire fence. A week later, a drayman
had a similar experience, with the result that one
of his horses had to be shot. Each time it was
mag chewing the horse that started the stampede.
After numerous minor casualties, such as the dis-
embowelling of school kids, cyclists, and other un-
important persons, the local farmers’ association
held a meeting to consider the matter, and got its
gun. Old Dad mag was disposed of in short order,
and the Ma mag soon followed. They are now
presumably in Paradise stampeding the angels.
* * * +
Blue Bush Lake, known also as the Great
Inland Lake, in the Northern Territory, is said to
be in wet seasons from 20 to 70 miles wide, and
200 to 250 miles long, with rolling waves on it as
high as on the ocean. It is fed by the Buchanan,
Playford, Creswell, Cobbe, Eva Downs,
Broad, Turkey, and other streams. In
flood time it overflows into Newcastle
Creek, which, after a course of 100
miles, empties into Lake Woods—
west of the Overland Telegraph
line. A peculiarity of Blue Bush
Lake is that, when strong winds
prevail, the water recedes two or
three miles from one shore and en-
croaches on the opposite side —a cir-
cumstance that has astonished a
good many travellers. Drovers affirm
that the country around the lake is among
the best in Australia for sheep.
“Slab”: Re “Gip” (B. 27/9/’O6) con-
cerning lyre birds. At Drouin, Gippsland, a
resident had a tame one that used to strut about
the farmyard and its environs in a lordly fashion.
He wasn’t pigeon-toed, like “Gip’s,” but was blind
in his left eye, and when he took up his position
in front of a stranger and gazed at him sideways
with the solitary optic, he looked like Dickens’
Grandfather Smallweed when he called for the
money. He could copy almost everything, in.
eluding a fried egg in the distance, but his strong
point lay in his imitation of a person sawing or
chopping wood. One day I found a city visitor
wandering in the bush with an inquiring expres-
sion on his countenance. He had been fishing ;
also his watch had stopped, and hearing Jack
giving a beautiful imitation of a tree —or rather
of a person sawing one —he had set out to ask the
sawyer the time. When I found him he had
described circles for an hour. One of Jack’s great
joys was to gather the hens together by crying
“ chook, chook,” and then watch their blank ex-
pressions when they found nothing but a bare
yard and a dog-kennel. His lack of tail-feathers
arose through the leading hen expressing its
opinion of the fraud. He died at a great age,
giving a beautiful rendering of a tombstone m his
last moments.
* * • *
Editor Kapunda Herald, Kapunda, S.A.,
had the following appear in his paper regarding
the well-known Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
“ For the benefit of those addicted to coughs and
colds, as well as for that of those who get them occa-
sionally, the writer has pleasure in testifying to
the great value of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
in such cases. He has used it in his family with
gratifying results, and can confidently recommend
it. Whilst its beneficial effects are pr.uounced
and rapid, it does not appear to derange the
stomach as some medicines used for similar ail-
ments do. For croupy colds in children it is a
splendid medicine, and for adult complaints it is
equally good.”*
LOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'The pretty, painted bird he chased
Had led him deep into the waste :
Down fairy dells, with flutterings
Of gaudy, gold-and-crimson wings ;
A wallaby, with deep-brown eyes,
Had led him further up the rise ;
A grunting, sleepy bear in turn
Had drawn him through a stretch of fern.
At last the small explorer found
The wilderness closed all around.
Trees everywhere, and long sword grass,
And thorns that would not let him pass.
Lost! Not a vestige of a track
To lead his errant footsteps back.
He cried ; he called with sudden fear,
No welcome answer reached his ear.
Along the dense side of a hill
He struggled bravely, calling still.
With growing dread his eyes were wide,
And oft his shrill bush-call he cried.
As the slow daylight faded out
And darkness closed him round about,
The wearied child fell down and wept,
And, sobbing fitfully, he slept.
Out of grand aisles and copses dim,
Eyes, in the night-time, looked at him.
The mopoke called, the bats flew by,
The white moon flooded earth and sky.
At length the cold, grey dawn crept on ;
High overhead the tree-tops shone.
The laughing jackass shouted out
His greeting loud to all about.
The magpie answered —loud and long
He wound his tuneful bugle-song.
With strong and independent wing,
They passed that helpless human thing—
That hurrying, hungry, weary child,
The weakest creature in the wild.
Still on his arduous way he made ;
Further again from human aid.
The labyrinthine bush no more
Its tiny captive shall restore.
He heard the lonely bittern grieve
As a cold frost came down at eve.
Belated bell-birds rang for him
A requiem in the copses dim.
And the white moon from lucent skies
Shone in his cold, unseeing eyes.
Where thick-starred clematis doth cling ;
Where the russet whip-birds sing ;
Where the yellow robin nests,
And the linnets plume their crests ;
Where the velvet mosses hide
Native violets lilac-eyed;
Under fronds that swing and dance
In a wild luxuriance,
Under scented umbrages
Of sassafras and wattle trees
It lies, a skeleton so slim ;
The bush has wholly taken him.
A baby skeleton it lies
Hid in kind leaves from prying eyes.
Green vines have wrapped it round, and hold
A coverlet of wattle gold.
About the place the wild bee sups,
And pale tecomas drop their cups,
And gaily painted butterflies
Hunt in the stillness where it lies.
And the grey owl above him sings
A dirge of dead, forgotten things.
VIC.
A. B. C.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
POSTCARDS.
A RTISTS, PHOTOGRAPHERS, &c., are invited to
submit Designs or ideas suitable for Reproduc-
tion as Post Cards to HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
Local Postcards—Every storekeeper should stock
postcards of his own locality. Write for samples and
prices. A splendid line for Christmas.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Reach's Waverley Brewery, Agents.


“Paul Cupid”: In reply to “Cocky”
(B. 27/9/’O6), who extols the man of his class as a
generous, considerate employer, and one that
pays from ss. to Bs. a day, and states that 95
per cent, of workers are worthless, I most
respectfully beg to state that the percentage of
worthless workers is nicely balanced by the per-
centage of cheap cookies. There is, here and
there, a conscientious cocky, just as there may be
a here-and-there land agent that deserves to get
bail; but it is in both cases a far distance from
here to there. The average cocky would no more
think of giving a man Bs. a day than he would of
sending potatoes to market without putting the
big ones on top. He usually pays from Bs. to 15s.
a week. For anyone who has no personal experi-
ence, a glance at the inquiries for “A good farm
hand, able to milk, plough, mow,” &c., at any of
the city labor agencies will satisfy him that it is
so. For this munificent screw the employee is
expected to bounce out of bed at 4 a.m. when the
cocky shouts at him, and extract the lacteal fluid
from 15 or 20 scraggy, smellsome cows, then bolt
his breakfast, and repair to the farm with the
plough, and curse the clods and stumps and the
cocky till after sundown, when he will again
crouch under the cows for a couple of hours. And
the most heartbreaking thing to the pious
employee who wishes to observe the Sabbath (all
employees desire to observe the Sabbath), is that
his theological meditations must be made on the
milking block, or from the top of a load of
HIS LOSS.
This legislation of Wade’s is agin the poor every
time. Blirm[?], I ain’t been able to find a decent
bumper since they shifted those fat bookies
orf Pitt-street.
“loosun” for the cows. If the cocky were only
satisfied with six days’ work a week, he would
never have won the reputation he bears, but he
mostly wants seven days and a good lump of each
night as well. The only time he will pay by the
day is when labor is scarce and his crop is “ fall-
ing off the head,” and if he doesn’t make his men
do three days’work in two, it isn’t through lack
of bucolic diplomacy and bustle. If “ Cocky ”
would only state definitely just where the Bs. a
day is being given for farm graft, he’d have no
reason to complain of the number or worth of
applicants for a job.
IN FORM.
THE KI D: "Ere, mind who Yor shovin’ — see! I’m jightin’ well jest now.”
Justice is a happy-go-lucky affair in some
of the far inlands. Recently, in the town of
Furthest-out, two men were arrested for forgery ;
they had tried to pass a bad imitation of the sig-
nature of a storekeeper. They spent some time
in the lock-up, doing odd jobs for the policeman
by day, and chained up
at night the place
could be kicked down
by an able-bodied
malefactor, hence the
chains. One Friday
a J. P. blew that way,
and decided to give
the case a hearing on
Saturday, by which
time another J.P.
was expected to ar-
all fours, or
otherwise. On Satur-
day the two J.’sP.
were both too drunk
to even adjourn the
case, so it adjourned
itself. On Sunday
the trooper took des-
perate measures to
keep the embodi-
ments of the law off
the beer, and on
Monday they sat on
as much Bench as
the place could raise,
and held their heads
in their hands and
groaned. They said
thickly : “ Projooce
the prisoners ! ” The
policeman produced
them, and then
opened the safe to
get the forged
cheque. It wasn’t
there. Then it oc-
curred to him that
his habit of hanging
up his coat with the
safe-key in the
pocket was a foolish
and disorderly habit,
and his jaw dropped.
He looked at the Bench. The
Bench was asleep. Silently he collared a prisoner
in each brawny hand, led them out, and started
them with a running kick on the road towards the
coast. Then he brought out his own bottle of
spirits and put it, with two glasses, before the
court to serve as a peace-offering when the Bench
woke up. Next day the Bench had nothing
about it save a vague recollection and an even
worse head than before, and when told it had dis-
charged the prisoners it was afraid to ask the
grounds of its decision.
* * « *
The harmless, though commercially valu-
able, koala is on the road to extinction in Banana-
land. Last year 340,000 skins were sold at
Brisbane, and, allowing for sales in other markets,
probably 500,000 of the poor old beast were
slaughtered in the State. The destruction has
been so great that already some districts are
bearless, and a kindly, interesting brute has
ceased to look down from the gum trees at the
passing population.
“Coolibah” : “Nulla” (B. 27/9/’O6) is
correct in stating that merely cutting prickly pear
is useless. A piece of leaf no bigger than the
coin usually deposited in the collection-plate, or
an immature flower-bud, if thrown on a rock, a
housetop, a fence-post, a gallows—anywhere, in
fact, will send forth leaves and make a vigorous
growth. But “ Nulla ” is wrong re the impossi-
bility of burning the pest. Having had a long
experience as a Bathurst burr engineer and prickly
pear expert, I claim to have some knowledge as
to the most certain and expeditious modes of
eradication. There is only one certain method.
It is not particularly expeditious. Draw together
several good, big logs, pack smaller timber
between, grub out the pear by the roots, pack it
closely on top of the timber, and start the
fire. A ton of wood used in this way will
account for about 20 tons of pear. The fire
smoulders along feebly under the depressing in-
fluence of many gallons of pear fluid, but it does
its work. Half-scorched leaves must be carefully
collected and placed in the warmest possible posi-
tion, or they will give birth to a fresh crop of
trouble and profanity. Observations made of
pear grown during the drought, and experi-
ments with certain flourishing specimens which
have been for years hanging on a wire fence, have
confirmed m v opinion that the pear absorbs its
substance, about 80 per cent, of which is water,
from the atmosphere. Can anyone calculate
what effect Queensland’s 4,000,000 acre crop,
averaging, say, 20 tons per acre, and drawing
four-fifths of its weight as moisture from the
atmosphere, has on the climate of the area
affected ?
* * * *
“Janor”: .Remarkable the number of
“Abo” writers who have been chased by snakes.
Why chased, anyhow? The admission implies
prudence bordering on cowardice, a terrified scoot,
and a victorious reptile. The man in the bush
(or the woman either) does not give the snake a
run for his money, but wipes him out. Failing a
handy stick or gibber, he nips off his belt or one
of his boots and smites the deadly chaser on the
head, or if he has not time for that he simply
treads heavily on the varmint with both feet,
deflates its tyre, spills all its petrol, and other-
wise disables its gait. These remarks do not apply
to the Circular Quay bushman or the lonely hatter
of George-street.
* * * *
“ Agricola ” : “ Quidam ” (B. 6/9/'O6) errs
in giving the waggon-building championship of
the Commonwealth to Longreach (Q.). That
honor went, years ago, to St. Mary’s (N.S.W.).
This little Western-line town recently sent to
Dubbo a wool-waggon, 23ft. 9in. long by 9ft.
wide—carrying capacity 21 tons. Another, sent
to Wellington, is 21ft. long by Bft. 9in. But
“ Bennett’s Baby ” takes the prize, for it is built
to carry 35 tons, on wheels 7ft. in diameter, with
tyres by ; other dimensions in propor-
tion. But the plucky St. Alary’s builder, who
uses iron-bark and other Australian timber in all
his best work, finds it almost impossible to com-
pete with the 17.5. exporters, who dump their
waggons here in parts, ready for fitting together,
at almost invisible prices. They acknowledge
selling here at a loss, in order to freeze out the
local builders.
THE SIPPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Boss, wide-stepping like a fatted beast,
Strides beaming down to breakfast, tongue to lip ;
His blushing gills out-red the rosy east,
His heart is thumping warm with “ just a nip.”
And, as the good brown chops come into view,
As cookie’s wife displays her pantry-stock,
The Boss goes out with “ Wait a jiff or two,”
He says, “ I’ll just go up, an’—wind the clock.”
And later, fed, he fusses forth to drive,
But steps back, muttering to Bill the groom,
As frothy-jawed the skittish nags arrive,
“ I’ve left my—er—my pipe up in my room.”
To lunch at twelve o’clock he bustles in,
And, flippant, calls the English One a goat,
Did then trots, chuckling, drink-wards with a grin—
“ I want—hup !—want t’ go an’ change me coat.”
So to the evening wears the quick day down ;
Cards and tobacco reign where dishes stood ;
But soon the Boss slopes outside with a frown —
“ I think a... bresh o’ fresh air’d ... do me good.”
He comes in later, drops odd jacks about,
And, finally, with hot hands at his head,
Yawns wide, and splutters, wandering, drowsy, out:
“ I shink ish time you young shaps wen’t’ bed ! ”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HESTE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
S.R.: (1) There are no “British regulars” in Aus-
tralia. The “ permanent men ” mentioned are Australian
soldiers ; (2) a petrol car doesn’t necessarily smell; (3)
industrial alcohol has just been practically freed fromtaxa-
tion in Australia... .G.F.S. : Not a very promising lot. We
rarely reprint verse, and don’t agree with the Judge who
held the police ought not to haunt a well-known tote
with suppressive intentions, “as it is against the liberty
of the subject.” Tun Bulletin doesn’t believe in the
liberty of the subject to break the laws... .D.S.M. :So
old a yarn that it has drifted as an incident into melo-
drama. But the trick for seeing the cards, whilst useful
enough at poker, wouldn’t be much good at Bridge; a good
Bridge player very early in the game knows where practi-
cally every card is without having to resort to cheating....
Sirocco : “ Doubt ” is the song of a very unsatisfactory
kind of kiss.... /Eneas : One accepted. The other two
tottering in the balance.... Breco: Declined (with a
vague feeling that perhaps it shouldn’t have been de-
clined). ... J.J.W. : Freetrade consists in giving local pro-
ductions no advantage over foreign ones (if a Customs
duty is levied on imports for revenue purposes there
should be an equal exc.se duty levied on local products),
and in putting local and foreign products on exactly the
same level in the matter of railway freights, wharfage
and harbor duties, postal charges—in fact, in every way.
No country ever went the whole hog in Freetrade....
Krys W. : Some of the suggestions we know to be
old. That makes us suspect they may all be 01d....
Skitopo : Humorous, but untenable in public print
Lantana: The “rheumatism potato” hardens because
the heat of the body dries up its moisture. It would
harden just as surely if the patient hadn’t rheumatism.
The sufferer may get some comfort out of wearing the
potato, or anything else he has faith in ; it certainly does
no harm unlessjlie sits on it... .Silver Fern : The obvious
exaggerations in your opening statements threw a cloud
of suspicion on all your facts and figures. For instance :
“ The imported British officer is an excrescence, a popin-
jay parading at Government House functions, where he
becomes a hero among silly society women, until he is
horse-whipped by some indignant father, or until the
rank-and-file expose his incompetence by parading the
str ets with putrid rations. During his term, he invari-
ably succeeds in discarding thousands of pounds’ worth
of uniform, because the facings or the braid are not to
his liking.” Do you want us to believe that every
British officer imported into M.L. has been either
horse-whipped or been faced by a mutiny ?
C.O.C. : The same proof that we have of the existence of
Julius Caisar. The incident was freely reported in books
on the war.... J.A.D. : George Washington and his tree
are both dead.... Beau Buck: Wrong. Some of the
most energetic men we know are Queenslanders....
Veritas: Not of sufficient interest....Gi and G.: You
may have a genuine scandal to tell of, but the way you
write makes it impossible to sort out the facts from the
wild and woolly comment.... Brad (and other corres-
pondents): Don’t want a goat-smell controversy
Cymrn : Hardly enough interest J.C. : Not in our line
at a 11.... J.G. : Amused at allusion to “that prince of
Fat Men, the proprietor of the Sydney Bulletin, whose
income exceeds £25,000 per annum.” Unfortunately, it
isn’t true ; for one thing, The Bulletin is not owned by
one man... .Quixote : Tiie Bulletin doesn’t believe in
begging his blood-stained money from Andrew Car-
negie for anything—church, library, or hospital
M.L. : That verse was reprinted not in Steele Rudd’s, but
Steal Fitchett’s magazine R. Mac. : Well versified, but
strained in sentiment, and rather fantastic in diction....
Achilles B. : Pretty well done, but a bit too strong for
print... .Nixie : Has more bad points than good
T.G. : Long way below the mark F.S.B. : Reasonably
good in its way, but it isn’t our way.... J.E.L.: Savors of
reality, but is weak in form.... Cam : Not quite strong
enough to carry off the deadly triteness of moonlight as
a poetic theme... .Unknown: “Cupid” has a good
finishing point with a weak lead-up. The other is undis-
tinguished doggerel... .Cam : “Town Light” holds a
good idea, but the treatment lacks point and spirit
R.H. (Tas.): Incoherent ravings in defective verse
Rambler : Too essayish and didactic.. .Doris H. : A pro-
mising piece of work John V.: Reasonably good, but
out of our line.... J. Madrid : “ Wherein is the workman-
ship defective?” Well, you can’t spell (21 mistakes in
the first 23 lines) ; you know nothing whatever of punc-
tuation ; your syntax is faulty, and your style is entirely
devoid of artistic and dramatic effect D.H.M.: Your
descriptive touch lacks deftness and vividity... .Shifter :
Mildly meritorious only Oliver H.: Too trifling for
print Billy Coote : Faintly funny 0n1y.... A.A.S. :
Both far below publication level W.G.S. : No
novelty or force in it.._ .Benoni: Excusable on ac-
count of your youth John M.: Rather flat and
feeble Dirty Mac: Not crisp or racy enough....
Ylenod : Stiffly and unnaturally treated ; and the situ-
ation is as familiar as corns Dapto : Subject has possi-
bilities ; but your treatment isn’t bright enough V. :
No imagination. A drug habit explained in the dry
manner of a law report Ted : In short, there was a dead
snake in the tank—W.C.S. : The tale of the rabbit-eating
sheep is dragged out too long. It wants to be condensed
or tinned C.C. :It is, as you say, the Bovril of your
remarks... .Engineer : Nothing fresh. It’s the American
“Bad Boy’s Diary” rehashed W.R. : “Riddle of the
Universe ” rather stiff.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.C.D. : “ Rival Sports” marvellously out of drawing.
....P.A.D.: May serve as suggestion N.G.W.: Four
desperately bad drawings, one obscene joke, one joke that
is suggestive of coarseness, wo wooden jokes... .Bert S. :
“ Dook ” hardly up to mark Jim C. : Picture of dirty
nude person in water rather unwholesome... .Herb. B.:
Too crude.. ..P.A.D. : Idea hardly funny enough.
By Appointment to
H.M. The King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
SALT
A pinch or Salt gives flavour, but a pinch of CEREJ3OS Salt gives Strength
and Health as well, because it contains the bran phosphates which make
the difference between White Bread and Whole Meal Bread.
Agents—Harrison &• At (wood, Sydney.
The peculiar properties of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy have been thoroughly tested
during the past few epidemics of Influenza, and
when it was taken in time we have not heard of
a single case of pneumonia.*
“ Snag ” : Some queer names of local
identities at White Cliffs (N.S.W.): —“Screwy,”
“Irish,” “Snakes,” “Circus Dick,” “Micky the
Priest,” “Ginger Sam,” “Smiler,” “Wonna-
minta Joe,” “Oats,” “ The Coon,” “Micky-on-
his-own” (so called from his objection to a mate),
“Buckets,” “Jimmy the Whisperer,” “Broncho
Joe” (who rode a wild bullock in Wilcannia),
“Wheelbarrow Tommy” (who, when travelling,
carts his belongings on the homely vehicle),
“Kerosene-tin Jimmy” (who works his claim
single-handed, using kerosene-tins for buckets,
and hauling them with a grappling-iron), and
“ Satan.”
A REVELATION.
OENT.’S SOLID CASE, 18ct.
GOLD
« Fx. & R.” LEVER WATCH.
Is a J-Plate Lever.
Is Jewelled in 15 holes.
Has a Ruby Roller Jewel.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
It is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
for two years (breakages excepted) without
charge.
It will stand Hard Riding' and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
These Watches go to within a minute a
mouth.
Gent.’s 18ct. Gold J-Hunter, 15 years guarantee, £l2 12s.
Plain Figures
Cash.
■> FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,"
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St


A committee of “distinguished Sydney ladies and gentlemans (their
own description) proposes to celebrate Trafalgar Day by giving a aeries of
■historical living tableaux." For some Items of the programme, Hop.
(quite unsolicited) supplies illustrations.
—SIdNING MAGNA CHARTA.
QUEEN BOADICEA AND ANCIENT BRITISH ART.
x
V\
' v
K
K-
v;
V
THE DEATH OF NELSON
THE SIQHTING OF
THE ARMADA AND
S A7o/?jC- ”■
7 °
THE HISTORIC QAME OF BOWLS.
THE DUCHESS OF SUTHERLAND’S
BALL ON THE EVE OF WATERLOO.
One of the “distinguished,” but fat,
ladies of the committee will pose as the
Duchess of Sutherland, while her husband will make a
more or less Iron Duke.
“ The sound of revelry by night ” will be supplied
by Sydney’s leading artists.
QUEEN ELIZABETH RECEIVING
THE ADMIRALS AFTER THE
ARMADA VICTORY.
“ Will you take anything after
your walk?” says she.
GREAT EMPIRE BUILDERS.-PAST AND PRESENT.
APPROPRIATE MILITARY AND NAVAL *
DISPLAYS.
“This feature of the programme would be a
great success,” says one of the ladles of the com-
mittee, “ only, you see, we haln’t got no navy.”
“HOP’S” VISION OF EMPIRE.


Rfiv Cktr/ens f Profes' —*
" He wonldVT liKe "to tf>ih\
%e-j vtere "ft^ey
“fo creaife ngvfr f> yfy o*7 behalf'
oj:
" Jje IhJMi'A'rce Vciefiej -
Vfl)icb JjKovi de for irje we*l< c
%: would T?c
tv foiled if-'itjkir
S^curi Were reduced
lh vajue I>y
LM Tai<
pohi" you Know \
friend Vll7cn y o u see
him % E>»l| ?
Ybf C b
•wouldn't"’ 'Pay |sore »
widow $c Would /er
y|
"OUR r
In replying to a vote of thanks, Mr. Reid
thanked Mr. Dan Barry, who had engaged
'the hall, for allowing him the use of It for
an hour. They had now seen one world-
wide wonder to-night, and he advised them
,to stay and see the other,
Y\:
G*liW
’ \\fe Could S^vt"
joy rijle ’bvrels ,ei/
'to '{'ofno
Co^^onwe^H^ - * •
|jlm»ste r ►|ce|
!h &po4.nt&+ner*t~ to'flyc Pacific
Islands
Vd'tid *»s+■"
iici, *s tCV>*-K^>
(on 4 " That" be is
to > ok |S
tr)2\y> k'wjfe if”
"Very Irttle
lhler€S X~ C.enlrey
in 'ftie S'fa'fe
ronfereyjce."
[ ' A s«
PL/el^to
£*j>l*i 7
Avy
Her.'— Pfow
yo« ev'er looK irje 5h
'fv<? ? r
Ift E>enis
Bill A
t>6l|Mil7P cv>
U hi
K\tj4 op yellow.
over’i't'.
( fhK«?<Jer^^+)
BENT AND OTHERWISE.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
What a tipster is lost in “ Dr.” Sheridan,
of Adelaide. “I’ll get 10 years for this!” he
groaned as he cleared out of his house, after an
interview with a patient who died on his hands.
And he did—exactly.
One Labor ex-M.L.A. keeps himself, and
his family, in good condition by wielding a pick
and shovel on a Sydney suburban road. Another
member, who helped Owe’Sullivan to get authority
to build the new Sydney railway station, has been
helping to paint it.
Lately died, at Brisbane, aged 71, H. W.
Radford, who for forty years was a Queensland
Parliamentary official. From 1862 till 1881 he was
Clerk Assistant of the Legislative Assembly, and
from 1881 till 1902 Clerk of Parliaments. He was
son of a surgeon of the 62nd Regiment.
Page, M.H.R., lately defined himself as
“a Freetrader who believes in supporting local
industries.” Each new local industry is as
another nail driven into the coffin of Page’s fiscal
belief, and when he ceases to be a practical
supporter of any foreign industry he’ll find himself
a strong Protectionist who believes in Freetrade.
E. W. Owe’Sullivan was presented with
a large cash testimonial in Sydney, last week.
The fact that he needed it is proof of the honesty
of his administration. Except for his public bor-
rowing habit, and his craving for big, useless, un-
paid-for statues, O’Sullivan is a good type— a
sturdy democrat and a generous, big-hearted
man.
The new R.C. Bishop of Port Augusta,
Father John Norton, is a native of Victoria. He
was educated at St. Keiran’s College, Kilkenny,
Ireland, and arrived in South Australia about 20
years ago. The R.C.’s differ much from the
Anglicans in the selection of their bishops, the
rule being to appoint local men whenever possible
rather than to import the individual whose head
inhabits the mitre.
The first “free emigrant” vessel, which
arrived in Port Jackson in 1831, brought with it
Mrs. Margaret M. Mullins, who died at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) on Monday, Oct. 8, at the presumed age
of 100 years. She leaves a daughter who is 72.
There has been considerable mortality among
alleged centenarians of late, and each time the
local paper has remarked that the decease
“severed one of the links that bound us to the
past.”
MARION (or WILLIE) EDWARDS , the lady
in male attire. She (he) has been horse-
owner, trainer, and many other things, like-
wise she (he) married a widoio, and was
lately arrested at Brisbane on a charge of
house-breaking in Melbourne. The picture
shows her (him) as she (he) appeared at
Brisbane police-court.
Ex-Governor Brassey, who fell off every-
thing, including the ground, in Victoria during
his gubernatorial period, is keeping it up. He
lately fell off a motor-car in Sutherlandshire, and
damaged his features. The car jumped downhill,
and caught in the top of a tree. Brassey didn’t
stop in the tree, but fell the rest of the way.
Fortunately, he has fallen off in weight lately, so
Scotland escaped serious injury when he hit it.
A N.S.W. backblocks storekeeper wrote
lately to an advertising quack saying that he ex-
pected soon to be made a J.P., and inquiring
what the quack would give him for permission to
use his photograph, name, and title over any
testimonial he (the quack) would like to draw out.
“ I don’t expect as much as a Minister of the
Crown, but it must be substantial, as my title
carries great influence here,” said the prospective
J.P.
WITHIN REASONABLE LIMITS.
For some time the States have watched with growing anxiety the poaching proclivities of the
Commonwealth cow.— Argus.
Probate was lately granted in Melbourne
to a deceased Godbehere. Seems a strange
designation to find in a Probate Court, anyway—
the court whose business it is to wrestle with
Mammon.
A family named Curr occupies Carawobbity
sheep station in the Forbes-Parkes (N.S.W.) dis-
trict. The previous owners were the Cowards,
who bought it from a man named Craven, and he
used to asseverate that he got it from a family
named Fear. The natives of the district call the
place the scared station.
Mr ; George Plaistowe Unwin, of the
postal service, who has just retired after 45
years’ graft, is a son of the old-time solicitor, 1.
W. Unwin, who practised in Sydney away back in
the thirties ; the old man was one of the founders
of the Sugar Company, whose works at Canterbury
are now a bacon factory, and he was also one of
the early directors of the A.M.P. Society. Mr.
Unwin’s second name, Plaistowe, is connected
somehow with a Newcastle solicitor of that name,
who also flourished in the thirties.
Another old draper passed out last week
—Robert Hicks, who for 40 years traded in
Melbourne as Moubray, Lusb and Co., Moubray,
Rowan and Hicks, and Hicks. Atkinson and
Sons. The old man was 67 years of age. He
came out here while a child, and started -with
Moubray, Lush and Co. in 1853. He worked his
way up through a sea of adverse chiffons to a
partnership,.and finally became the senior mem-
ber of the firm. He was buried up to his eyes in
business,, and kept clear of all sorts of politics.
An Australian pioneer decided that it was
a fair thing recently, and died at the age of 105.
Mrs. Christina Schammer was born in Prussia,
and came to Adelaide in 1853. She lived at
Gawler (S. A.) for some years, and then moved to
Hamilton (Vic.), where she was burned out by a
bush fire. In 1873 she settled at Frances (S.A.),
where she finished her long career. She leaves a
son aged 72; a daughter aged 76 ; eight grand-
children, eldest 53 ; 41 great-grandchildren, eldest
2S; and five great-great-grandchildren, eldest
nine.
Premier Bent, of Victoria, will be glad to
hear that his fame has penetrated even to Chicago.
Pugilist O’Brien has been reading of him. “ I see
you have a man named Bent out there, who’s
described as a hard-hitter,” says Mr. O’Brien.
“He seems to be a high-roller. Is he in the heavy-
weight division ?” As Bent weighs some 20 stone
he probably is in the heavy-weight division, and,
if he were in the habit of rolling, he would be as
high a roller as any in the business —say 4ft. from
the ground to the roof of his vest.
“F.” ; Apropos John Pascoe Fawknerand
his homely wife (B. 11/10/ 06). She was a large
coarse woman, with but one eye, and after Fawk-
ner’s death she married J. J. Walsh, a Colling-
wood politician, who got called to the Bar, but
scarcely ever (if ever) held a brief—at least not in
my time. If Walsh married for money he was
out of it, for Johnny Fawkner died poor. He had
barely enough to live upon, yet, as he had no
family, his wants were few. Plis amusement in
his latter years was the Collingwood Police Court,
of the Bench of which he was Chairman.
“T.D.,” from London :
When in Sydnev, artist George Lambert used to be the
most dapper of'all local brush-wielders, alw-ays 'scru-
pulously shaved and dressed, and nice and curly about
his sun-kissed locks. These times, in London, he is by a
long wav the most “ artistic’’-looking of the ’Stralian
crowd. He wears a long, straggly beard, big negligO tie,
ulster down to the heels, and a huge soft hat that would
have made the jovial Bohemians of Murger’s masterpiece
sick with envy. The best-dressed Australian artist in
London is sculptor Mackennal, and after him Longstaff.
The worst-dressed is—well, there are several competitors,
who haven’t the compensating thought that they look
“ artistic.”
Bob Sievier-Sutton’s “Life ” saw the light
on 29th August last, and, to some extent,
“snuffed out” Chesterton’s “Dickens,” which
appeared on same day. Glasgow News says of
it: —
It is a breezy, readable volume—frank, direct, bluff—
like its talented author Mr. Sievier fought in the
Kaffir war of 1878 ; was wrecked on Robben Island, where
the lepers’ colony is ; found himself standing on the
dread shore with £7O in gold, a pair of trousers, and a
helmet with a brass spike ; back in London, he went on
the stage at 355. a week, and acted leading parts in plays
by Shakspeare and Sheridan. Full details are given of
his racing career, and naturally there is much regarding
the famous Sceptre and the equally famous case—Sievier
v. Duke.
Mahon, M.P., who reckons that the dis-
coverer of a cancer cure would do more for
humanity than all the poets that ever were, is an
extraordinary sort of Irishman. A cold, severe-
looking man, he is nowadays as formal and
matter-of-fact as a grammarian, and would as soon
think of hurling a bomb at his audience as a quip
or a bit of rhetoric. Yet the rather gloomy
realist of to-day had his enthusiasms once, and is
reputed to have known the inside of Kilmainham
on account of his strenuous advocacy of Home
Rule. It has been incorrectly stated that Mahon
owns a Westralian newspaper. He sold his inte-
rest in the Kalgoorlie Sun years ago. He belongs
to the small band of Freetrade Laborists.
A Melbourne gentleman named “Coon”
King was in a hustling mood last week, but found
the old grey world keeping up with him, in spite
of all its alleged tiredness. Released from Pent-
ridge gaol on Tuesday, after doing 18 months for
burglary, he annexed a watch at a Judkins meet-
ing on the following Sunday, was arrested on
Monday, remanded and bailed out on Tuesday,
got married on Thursday, and passed back to
Pentridge for 12 months on Friday. And by way
of a side-issue, a sordid policeman broke up the
wedding feast by running in the best man and a
friend.
Frank Higgle, President of the Phila-
delphia (U.S.A.) Trust Co., who suicided after
putting his trust funds into wild cats, was a man
after Judkins’ own heart:—
He was the treasurer of the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church, and dozens of funds connected
with synods, boards, committees, mission societies,
and even Sunday school savings banks. He was a sup-
porter also of innumerable religious and philanthropic
movements, and incidentally treasurer to them all. He
refused to read a Sunday newspaper or ride in a tram-
way-car on the Sabbath. On every occasion he preached
the most rigid code of morality, by which, to all
appearances, he lived. He took every opportunity to
deplore the gambling spirit.
And he stole some millions.
Whafc the daily-paperite fondly calls a
“link with the past” is the grave of Thomas
Devlin in the old West Melbourne Cemetery.
Devlin was a native of London, and died at Mel-
bourne in 1842, at the
age of 93. This means
that Devlin, when a
lad, probably joined, in
the general maffick
following the news of
the taking of Quebec,
before historians had
thought out that won-
derful yarn about
Wolfe and Gray’s
’‘Elegy.” Also, that
he was able to criticise
Clive as a contempor-
ary and listen to the
good anti-Socialists of
the day protesting
against the alteration
of the calendar and the
abolition of witch-
burning. Devlin may
have seen Johnson and
Boswell in Fleet-street,
and he had been long
grown up when Cook
returned from the
South Seas with the
news of a new conti-
nent. The American
War of Independence
must have been a matter of current news,
and he probably read about the Fall of the Bas-
tille, just as we read of the Russian troubles to-
day. Devlin was already an old man when London
was in the hands of the bucks, and his hair was,
presumably, thin at the top when Trafalgar and
Waterloo were fought.
Bishop Stanton, of Newcastle, whose estate
pans out at £9855, was known as the Larrikin
Bishop in his North Queensland days. He saved
little in Queensland, his unconventional ways
setting the few wealthy people of that quarter
somewhat against patronising his plate. A
former Bishop of Newcastle, Dr. Tyrrell, left
£250,000, much of it in flocks, herds, and lands.
He bequeathed most of it to the Church, but the
money melted before the Synod got hold of it.
It was thought that the Newcastle bishopric
would be the richest prize in the Anglican Church,
till floods, fires, and bad speculations devoured
the Tyrrell capital.
One Sydney commercial magnate is a
strong upholder of the principle of thrift.
It is told of him that he once observed
his office-boy putting a twopenny stamp on a
letter which just exceeded the penny limit. The
great man pointed out that a fragment of type-
writer ribbon was adhering to the typed envelope,
and said that was the cause of the missive being
over-weight. Then he sacked the boy for gross
extravagance. The Bulletin only remembers
one case to equal this —that of the Queensland
money magnate who was found drying a letter in
the sun outside Brisbane Post Office. The docu-
ment was the smallest fraction over-weight, but
he hoped that when the moisture evaporated off
the flap and the stamp it would just crowd
through.
Thus the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Mrs. Elizabeth Cartwright died recently at Bexley, near
Sydney, aged 90 years (she was born in 1817, in Governor
Macquarie’s time). Her father was Captain Arnold Fisk,
master of the American brig Favorite, 158 tons, carrying
four guns, and a crew of 23 men, which came into Sydney
Harbor in August, 1811, and afterwards traded between
Sj'dney and the Derwent. Her mother was a daughter of
Captain Eber Bunker, of the ship Frederick, after whom
Bunker Hill, on the Sydney Rocks, was named. The
owners of the Favorite were Garnham Blaxeell and Co.,
and of the Frederick, William Wilson and Co. Captain
Bunker is said to have arrived in Sydney in 1793 ; we find
him, in 1801, in charge of the Albion, taking a cargo of
oil to England. Captain Bunker brought his family to
Sydney in the early years of last century, and took up
his residence at the junction of Hunter and Pitt streets,
on the edge of the Tank Stream. In the old Sandhills
Cemetery was an ancient stone to the widow of Captain
“ Hunt ” Bunker and Captain “ Fink,” which suggests
that the old tombstone-printers worked pretty much at
random, and left their spelling to Providence.
A man from Maoriland :
Monomaniac Lionel Terry, who deliberately shot a
Chinaman at Wellington (M.L.) in order to attract public
attention to the race problem, broke out of Sunnyside
(Christchurch) lunatic asylum after he had been there a
year. He was the most trusted man in the institution,
and was regarded as perfectly sane except on the pigtail
question. The manner of his escape is shrouded in mys-
tery, and on his capture three days afterwards he
declined to give any information on the subject. He had
had tea at the asylum, the institution being bolted and
barred. Half-an-hour later he was missed, and every
do r and window was still secure. Terry admits he had
assistance, but says none of the staff was concerned.
Hunger drove him to a wayside village, which he entered
openly, and there he was recognised. A man of his strik-
ing personality (he stands 6ft. 3in., and stalks along
in military style, and he wore the asylum uniform)
couldn’t well escape unless he had friends who would
keep him indefinitely. It took three or four men to over-
power Terry, who was seized while waiting in the
smoking-room of the local pub for some good Samaritan,
charmed by his talk, to ask him in to dinner. He de-
clared, in explanation afterwards, that he abhorred the
asylum and the pestilential practices of some of the
gibbering idiots confined there, and would much prefer a
gaol, where the inhabitants are, at least, persons of
some intelligence. They may be wicked, but they don’t
gibber.
James Willing, early father of the bill-
sticking business in London, died only the other
week, aged 89. When Willing mixed his first pot
of paste and began to stick bills, the advertising
spaces were as free as air, and he merely con-
tracted to put out a certain amount of paper in a
given time. Working night and day he got a lot
of business, and then he advertised himself
on every available wall and hoarding in London
as the king of bill-stickers. A value for spaces
had been created, and Willing leased them ; and
from a personal bill-sticker he grew to be a great
firm of advertising agents, and stuck bills as a
bloated capitalist. The tireless wielder of the
paste-pot had to fight hard for supremacy in his
young days. Battles raged at every hoarding,
and every man’s bill was likely to have two or
three other bills pasted over it ere the next day
dawned. But Willing devoted his profits to
the hire of more labor, and his men were supplied
with taller ladders than the rival stickers, and
they could fight better, and as the result of their
well organised attacks upon hoardings and dead
walls, the bills of Willing were so often on top
that the enemy spiked his paste-pot and fled in
disorder. In fact, the enemy went broke as a
rule, being unable to collect payment for pasting
bills where they were inevitably overlaid by the
posters of the great monopolist.
TOO MUCH GOOD ADVICE.
ANTI-SIN: “ Don't drink !”
ABTI-SOSH: “ Don't ’dp yourself to mustard !"
“X.” writes:—
To be High Court Judges—lsaacs and Higgins. Aus-
tralia is by now pretty well acquainted with Isaacs, the
militant, unwearied, and tenacious little Hebrew. He
ha* the most active brain in the Australian Parlia-
ment. Higgins is a different stamp of man—he
i* methodical, ruminative, and dogged. His favorite
answer to interruptions or interjections is “Just
so.” In Parliament nobody can lead him away
from his line of argument. To a contradiction he replies
“ Just so,” and arrives at the point in dispute 15 minutes
later. In argument in the High Court, where he will
soon sit beside Samuel Griffith, he stops respectfully to
hear that restless-brained Chief Justice tilt a lance
at his line of reasoning. “Just so,” says Higgins,
and goes placidly ahead with his elaborations.
Higgins is a North of Ireland man, but went
through a Melbourne University course, winning his
way chiefly by scholarships, for his father was a
very moderately affluent parson. Probably he began all
his answers in examination papers with the words “Just
so.” He had a penniless time when first admitted to the
Bar—his first year yielded him only £l3. He remarked
“ Just so,” and stewed up his law reports, and indexed his
boo -s of reference. In his second year he made £1 a
week ;in his third, he was a prosperous barrister. He
married a daughter of one of the schoolmaster family of
Morrisons—she belongs to the Geelong branch. He has
an engineer-brother as bald-headed, as long-nosed, and as
solemn as himself, and a sister (now married) who dabbles
in literature. Higgins is an academic poetry lover—
knows Browning by heart, and has recently published a
scholastico-philosophie paper on that poet’s works. In
politics, he has been a shining example of consistent
democracy. “Just so” Higgins will make a solid
judge, but he and Isaacs are a bitter loss to the Australian
Parliament.
1
e
The eWorld's DenjjMm


For Fashion O. Comfort In Cadies’ .
Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices
Afford the People no end of
Profit and Pleasure.
tf/N
No. 2—Glaoe Kid Twin
Bar Shoes, Pump
Soles, Patent Leather
Toe Caps,
Ws 6d.
No. B—Glace8 —Glace Kid Two Bar
Shoe, Fancy Steel
Buckle, Hall Heels,
13s 6c/.
Through their economising acftion small incomes become respectable stipends,
and big incomes increase apace. Xbe goodness and virtue of ANTHONY
HORDERN'S Famous Low Prices are testified to every day by tens of thousands
through the Post and at the Counters of the Biggest Store in Australia—THE
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, on the Historic Slope of Briclxfield Hill, SYDNEY.
’mat
No. 18— Fancy Cross Bar
Beaded Shoes, Satin
Lined, very effective,
12s 6d
Send for Spring and Summer
FASHION PORTFOLIO,
Post Free Anywhere.
JNo. 21—Glace Kid
Oxford Shoes,
Patent Leather
Facings, very dainty.
11s 6d
Boots and shoes
Ko. 22—Patent Calf Leather
Walking Shoes, Louis
XV. Heels, very smart,
Xo. 17—Patent Leather Kid Derby
Shoes, Ctiban Heels, _
the Latest Style Sm IQ
Anthony Hordern (Si Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
PALACE EMPORIUM
SYDNEY
r
X
XZi
2S-
m
me
l/'V
JO
P
,J.vN
o»
«pec\M-
M
AV
V'
I
UOUt»
FO
mVVVv//f
*»0
%
"jJvkTfcf! Bortt
Ishow ih&t we need T
K 5
1/ Better 6 &Lot Older. 1


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Octobek 16, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
These are halcyon days around Sydney, just
long enough not to be too short, just warm and
scented enough to suggest a breath of Paradise,
and sufficiently golden to make me feel affluent
and possessed of small change. For myself, I
hate the changing seasons. I would like to be
able to put a plug in the weather when the right
kind of weather comes round, and keep it there.
I don’t want it to change any more now. When
early summer arrives, the revolving wheel of
Time is mere waste of axle-grease.
A trousseau is a useful thing to take on board
ship, with your deck-chairs and rugs. You never
know how soon you may want it. An Eng-
lish girl and her wedding outfit, both intended
for a young man in Queensland (at least she was),
quite lately came to Australia in care of the cap-
tain of the vessel on which she travelled. On the
way out she married the captain, who is nearly
old enough to be her grandfather. The jilted
lover boarded the vessel on arrival, and was told
by a steward or a deck-sweep or somebody, that
the Miss he was expecting was now a Missus. He
didn’t say or do anything rash—but just left by
way of the gangway instead of going over the
hand-rail. Another kind of man would have
uttered a loud cry, then seized the faithless
captain and gone overboard with him, taking the
anchor along for sinking purposes. A man I
know has calculated that there are over 1400
captains at the bottom of the sea through marry-
ing girls whom they had promised to convey safely
across the ocean and deliver to the other fellows.
There ought to be more.
Our late visitor, actor Douglas Gerrard, of the
Ancient Greek profile and modern French corsets,
is one of the shareholders in the North Budgery
mine—which has now climbed up to the roof of
things at the stock exchange, and has become so
valuable that you have to pay for the privilege of
looking at a man whose first cousin nearly bought
into the show, but didn’t. Gerrard was blowing
about on a neighboring (Cobar) station when the
Budgery was being swaddled into shape—with
pickaxes—and he purchased an interest in the
bantling just to show his love for the country.
Not always is love so swiftly rewarded.
There is an opening in Sydney for some wealthy
man who desires to leave his money to a good
object. The Child Study Association has been
doing excellent work at the Whitfield Institute,
in Pitt-street, but it finds that, owing to lack of
money, it can only scratch at the fringe of the
subject. _ Dr. Alan Carroll, who is the brain of
the association, has supplied an enormous amount
of skilful treatment free of charge, and for the
love of the kiddies ; but, unfortunately, his noble
work has been, to a large extent, thrown away,
because parents have not the means to feed the
little patients as they require, and the associa-
tion’s funds are not equal to thedemand. The
doctor relies upon diet for the greater number
of his cures of children, and lie has done
some almost miraculous things. He has
made the deaf child to hear, the dumb
to speak, the Cripple to leap and run,
and the dullard . bright and intelligent. At
present the association spends a lot of money
on pure milk, which it supplies to mothers who
have delicate babies and are not able to purchase
milk themselves. Dr. Carroll has made a special
study of children, and lias accumulated a huge
fund of valuable information. Being advanced in
years, he is anxious to impart his knowledge to
younger men, so that the work may be continued.
The chief need of the association at present is a
laboratory furnished with instruments for measur-
ing and recording all nervous, currents of the
various parts of the child’s body. Something like
37 per cent, of children are born with defects
which might be remedied if the sordid cash pro-
blem were got over. Is there not one rich man
in Australia who loves children ?
Miss Marie Narelle and her chromatic tenor
open at Sydney Town Hall next Saturday.
Afterwards she goes to Maoriland for the opening
of the Exhibition.
Mr. Henry L. Jones, who used to vice-consul
for America, and engineer things for himself and
others in Sydney, will not return here. He has
secured a large, spacious job in London.
Dr. Watson, who recently married Miss Muriel
Marks, will take the niche at Orange of the V.O.
man, Dr. Howse, while the latter is visiting dear
old Inkland.
Gerard Kean, the phenomenal Victorian tenor,
reports himself from Queensland as doing busi-
ness to match his voice. He gives a farewell
concert in Sydney soon. If he has been making a
mule of himself by singing soprano all over the
North, the amount of voice he’ll take away with
him will squeeze into a small compass.
Young Lilian Irvine, with raven hair, dark
eyes, and a bright, intelligent face, daringly gave
a concert in the Centenary Hall last Wednesday.
She sang well, with a sweet, light soprano. The
audience was absolutely surprised at her artistic
singing of a very meritorious ballad with a very
commonplace name, “ Hush, My Little One.”
Later, Sullivan’s “My Dearest Heart” was com-
pletely satisfactory. The musical setting of the
young star consisted of Henry Weir, the debon-
nair tenor, F. Mowat Carter, and Bessie Beattie,
a sparkling, clever pianiste.
Organist Lemaire, and “ Hannibal ” Southwell,
of Paling’s, leave for Thursday Island on Sunday.
Former will give a recital there, but the latter
goes in the hope that he won’t hear for a month
anything more musical than the blowing of a
conch or the sound of a league-long roller thun-
dering on the beach.
The cables about the Kaiser being infuriated
suggest to me what a great idea it would be,
when a really sudden and violent monarch is
infuriated, for him to let.his subjects in at 2s. 6d.
a head to heap him swear, the proceeds to go to
charity. In this case I should think he must have
sworn enough to build a hospital. Count Herbert
Bismarck, whose rudeness figures largely in the
Hohenlohe revelations, is something between a
pup and a cub ; also, he has been described as a
very elevated bounder, but at present the Kaiser
seems to be bounding at least 2ft. higher than
Herbert’s best efforts. Herbert Bismarck is one
of the numerous persons of whom a story is told
of some incivility done at a railway station. The
person to whom it was done was also numerous,
a OU u usuall 7 he was an Italian diplomatist.
Anyhow, he remonstrated, and the other man, by
way of showing that he had a right to be rude,
explained gruffly that he was H. Bismarck. “It
is an insufficient apology,” said the other in the
tone of one who floats a greasy substance on the
troubled. waters, “but it is quite sufficient
explanation.”
A mashed contributor sends me a scream about
a dimpled girl he saw on the Block. I don’t pur-
pose to advertise his passion and her dimples; the
note that arrested me in mid-scream was that in
which he told how “ the frumps would turn and
glare” at his girl. Now, why “glare”? Per-
haps the frumps turned to look, as he did, in ad-
miration. It seems to be a recognised thing for
men and women to believe that women who look
interestedly at other women, especially at bettei’-
looking, better-dressed women, do so in aspirit of
envy, malice, and all cussedness, or, at least, in a
disagreeably critical spirit. Speaking for myself
—over one thing in the shape of women’s head-
gear do I wax enthusiastic, and that’s the sun-
bonnet. A white lawn or muslin sunbonnet
trimmed with fine narrow lace and worn on an
Australian summer day by an Australian summer
girl deserves to have some good verses written to
it, to say nothing of the face it shades. Well, the
other day, in a Mosman tram, I saw the bonnet of
my dreams on an adult, a quite adult, head. She
had grey eyes and black lashes, and I reckoned
site knew she looked prettier inside that soft
white cave thing than she would in any hat. She
caught my interested glance, and her eyes took on
a hostile, challenging air. I began to read, but
presently I wondered if the “ flap ” of the bonnet
reached the shoulder, so 1 sneaked another look,
because I intended to get one as like it as possi-
ble. Grey Eyes was ready for me with a “ Ah-a,
you cat /” expression, and, turning to her com-
panion, she said, with ostentatious distinctness,
“ I suppose you’re ashamed to be seen with me ?”
[lt’s a calamitous thing to have a lot of self-
consciousness Secreted about your person.]
The accusation of “Cat!” which she threw at
me was so obvious, that I was half-inclined to
stop the car, say “ Miaou ! ” very clearly, and step
out.
At a recent “ quotation tea ” a High School girl
said “she knew a certain line was from Gray’s
1 Elegy,’ but she couldn’t remember who wrote it.”
A correspondent sends me that information, the
while he shakes the pepper of his contempt over
the girl and her kind. One of her “ kind ”at the
samp “tea” had never heard of Victor Daley.
But “she knew considerable about cricket and the
nice places on the Harbor, and she wasted her
time shockingly.” But is she wasting her time
when she’s on the look-out for a mate ? That is
her quarry—not poetry. And she’ll select a man
who doesn’t know anything, more about Gray or
Daley than she does, and they’ll live.happily ever
after.
Concerning clever women and the stupid
“popular” error that they are plain of feature
and eccentric in dress : At a vice-regal garden
party, given within the last year, appeared a
lady, short-haired and dressed in an unbecoming
frock and an eruption of glaring ribbons. A
Pointer woman, after vainly trying to discover
the stranger’s identity, said,’ “'Well, I’m sure It’s
awful enough looking to be very clever.” Person
to whom she said this had a mind to tell her that
she looked beautiful enough to be an imbecile,
and well enough dressed to be a dangerous luna-
tic. But she refrained, for one mustn’t be
logical at a garden party; besides, all the
Pointers think that they are The People,
and wisdom will die with them. In my
humble opinion (and on second thoughts it isn’t
humble) a pretty, smartly-frocked woman is, eight
times out of ten, a clever woman, and a more than
average order of intellect goes with a more than
usual share of physical beauty. Queens of Salons
and of Society have been, as a rule, handsome.
But sometimes the more than averagely endowed
female’s intellect doesn’t carry with it much taste,
and so fails to make the best of the good points of
the body that is so obliging as to carry it around.
Another item to the credit balance of the Good
Looker: She is rarely nasty to other women.
The pretty woman is almost invariably
a pretty - mannered one. Perhaps often she
is so from no higher motive than because
she desires to keep up her reputation for
good looks. Besides, she thinks, “I must
have ways to match my face and figure. If Ido
the prickly pear act all the women will deny me
the possession of looks, and then I may as well
have none.” As someone has remarked—“To
care for people on account of their attractive
appearance only is like frequenting a home where
you like the fagade rather than the hostess.”
Vera Isley, the 16-year old Queenslander, who
was selected out of some thousands of public
school children to sing at the Jersey celebration
last December, has been “passed” by Dolores as
a Voice worth training for the lyric stage.
Mention of the Jerseys reminds that the Lady
is helping her youngest daughter (Sydneysiders
will remember this damsel as “Beatrice,”) to
rejoice over the arrival of a son and heir. Lady
Beatrice married some two years ago a peer person
entitled Dunsany, who shoots straight and has
written a novel.
Admiral Fawkes is so afraid of losing sight of
his big heap of scrap iron, the Pah’f’l,, and of the
two lesser scrap-heaps, the Pyramus and En-
counter, that he didn’t visit the three days’
fete in aid of the Lady Mayoress’ fund for
the Thirlmere Home for Consumptive Women.
Fete was held at the Allen Taylors’ place
in Darlinghurst, and out of sight of the scrap-
iron tubs o’ battle. Everyone knows that if a
whale bumped the Pah’f’l (it ought to be called
the Pah’less) the tub o’ battle would immediately
go to pieces. But it was a very catfishy act of his
Excellency, the Chief Prawn on the Beach, to
rush out invitations for a Garden Party after
he and his admiraless had received invites
for the same day from the Mayor and
Mayoress to attend their party to aid a
great and popular charity. The Mayoral pair
have frequently entertained the Admiralty House
clique, when the winning thing was said, and the
wine drunk, and the winged creature eaten. As
Society is one vast aggregate snob, the Fawkes
action probably kept away a section of people
who would have trailed to help the charity in the
wake of the Admiralty if the Admiralty had only
left its wake on the premises.
A group of aldermen and their wives, who sat
in the seats of the mighty at a Mayoral dinner,
last month, and who hurry along to Mayoral
receptions, were amongst those who stopped
away from Mrs. Taylor’s charitable function with
great enthusiasm. And a large number of women
who did come to “ help ” a charity that hopes to
provide the first home for consumptive women in
N.S.W. should have stayed away, for they stole
their afternoon tea. “Stole” is plain English.
These ladies, on getting their tickets after tea,
chose another exit than that at which the cashier
was seated. The Mayoress must have thought
that some women might have sprung a little
farther from the monkey while they were about
their Darwinism. To steal the price of a cup of
tea from a consumptive should end all compe-
tition as to the mean woman prize.
A meeting was held, the other day, at St. Mar-
garet’s Hospital, to organise a theatre entertain-
ment, which will be given by Mr. Blandford
Wright with his new comedy, “The Dear Doctor,”
at the Palace on October 31st, in aid of the funds
of that deserving institution. Dr. W. Edward
Warren was elected president; Mrs. E. W. O’Sul-
livan, vice-president; Mrs. J. S. T. M'Gowen,
lion, treasurer; and Mrs. Robert Farrell, hon.
secretary.
Miss Mabel Want, step-daughter of the late
Mr. Jack Want, was married last week with full
naval honors to one of the Admiral’s secs. Pel-
ham-Kentis the bridegroom’s name, and he has
eyes startlingly big and black. Bride’s sister
Norali made all the lovely lace on the bridal gown,
and a friend, Miss Curtiss (one of the legal family
of that name), made the cake, and the fact that
the piece of Polar-like bridal indigestion was
built square seemed to the guests a cross between
a delightful surprise and the breaking of a com-
mandment. •
By a private letter received to-day I learn that
Charles Danby, husband of Alexia Bassian, is
dead. He had undergone operations for growths
on tongue and jaw, and his plucky little wife was
a devoted nurse.
“Miss Rose Musgrove ” writes a girl just ar-
rived in London, “is having a rustling time with
people wanting to provide amusements and enter-
tainments for her. Also,, Draycott is, amongst
others, nearly a fixture on her mat.
Misses Alice Norton and Ethel Stephens open
a show of their pictures at Bull’s Chambers,
14 Moore-st., on the 18th. Admission free. You
can get out free, too, unless you are tempted into
buying a picture. Also, there is a lift.
Continental bathing at Cronulla Beach this
summer is going to challenge the Cup as a spec-
tacle of interest. It’s going to take Johnnydom
by the neck-band, and hold him till the long wash
of Australasian seas souses him, or a girl in one of
the new bathing costumes catches him and keeps
him as permanent provider of bathing and other
costumes. Hear the Undines and Water Lilies
describe some of the frocks in which they’ll leave
foot prints on the sands of summer. One is a
pale grey shiny lustre, sailor collar, pale blue
trimmings and silk cap, and pale grey shoes and
stockings. Another, bright scarlet with white
silk facings and cap, scarier stockings and shoes.
Its enough to make a shark come on the land 1 I
would like to make a wager, any number of wagers
(gambling to be done in sea shells), that these
bathing gowns will never get a wetting unless
their wearers are caught in the rain.
One of the best, if not the very best, of the
horsewomen in Australia, Mrs. Forsyth, of New-
castle, has been doing the races in very smart
tailor-mades and very high collars. She and Mrs.
Essie Jenyns Wood divide whatever swagger
there is in Newcastle.
An ex-French Consul-General of ours, M.
Biard D’Aunet, has written in Le Revue des
Deux Mondes an article on Australian Society.
On the whole, he is flattering. But he doesn’t
think much of the Australian girl as a conversa-
tionalist, or as a Buffer for that matter. But, then,
the Australian girl couldn’t be bothered with Biard
D’Aunet’s talk. He had lost a large number of
teeth, and, judging by the unusual indistinctness
of his speech, his palate must have mot with
a fatal accident. The Australian Society girl
became as an eel when the French Consul-General
hove in sight. Another curious suggestion he makes
to account for the Australian passion for music :
we cultivate it as an alternative for conversation.
Might as well say that the fluff talkers of his
race cultivate conversation because the alterna-
native would be singing and playing. It will be
remembered that D’Aunet married the widow of
the late Justice Innes, a regular Society woman.
His previous matrimonial tie to a French lady was
dissolved to allow of the marriage.
Two smartest and wittiest speakers at the
Alliance Francaise soiree last week were Madame
Poignon, a short, dark, lively Parisienne social
agitator, and Consul-General Pinard. The hand-
some Degen pair were present, and a contingent
of the W. P. Mannings, and Dr. Danysz, and
pianiste Leverrier.
A mining king in a shabby suit came to Sydney
to look for a house for his family. Agents judged
his means by his clothes, and persisted in showing
him four-hundred-pound humpies. He used to
look at them meekly and say nuffin. One day,
returning from the house-hunt, he pointed to a
mansion he’d like. “It chances to be on the
market,” said the amused agent. “Its price is
£40,000,” “ I’ll take it,” said the meek man.
And he did, paying cash.
All the tin-goddesses of the National Council of
Women have been crowding the lift of the Metro-
pole to see Mrs. Ramsay Macdonald, wife of an
English Labor member. She is a medium-sized
lady, with blue eyes, fairish hair, and a head
crammed with knowledge on social, economic
and industrial questions. Also, she delivers her
knowledge in first-class, well-syntaxed style. The
Macdonalds leave for Maoriland to-morrow.
Arthur Galton, whose brother Howard is now
visiting Australia, has settled down quietly in his
Church of England curacy at Windermere, Eng-
land. When he lived in Sydney, as private
secretary to his uncle, Governor Huff, only a few
knew that he had previously been a priest of the
R.C. creed. When a student at Oxford he ’verted
to R.C.-ism, and “ took orders,” but found the cult
did not agree with him, and moved out. It was
while wondering what to do next that he accepted
his uncle’s offer of a billet. He dropped uncle after
a while, and passed over to George Dibbs, who
put him on to write Australian history from
records. Reid, coming into office, quashed the
engagement, and Mr. Galton returned to Eng-
land. Those who knew him intimately were not
surprised when he again took to the church. Mr.
Galton had the church habit and countenance,
and the church voice, and was in most things
churchy.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
Lord and Lady Chelmsford, with their children,
governess, and Miss Du Cane, were up at the Metropoli-
tan Fire Brigade on Friday, when a programme of “ turn-
outs,” “night-alarms,” “surprise-calls,” and the like,
was smartly carried out for their benefit. A slight diver-
sion was caused by the new motor, which, contrary to
its usual jibbing practices, took a drunken dive
out of the building, and after lurching dizzily
among the agile spectators, made a dash at a
funeral which at that moment turned into the
street. Only a smart piece of driving prevented the
deceased being grievously interrupted in his arrange-
ments. The plucky dive by a member of the brigade
from the top of the parapet into the patent life-saver was
thrilling, but the taste of allowing such unnecessary risk
for spectacular display is questionable.
People in Brisbane are becoming used to the piactical,
common-sense utterances of the Governor’s wife. Al-
though brief in her remarks from platform or chair she
generally gets home with a sensible suggestion. At the
fire-station, for instance, she remarked upon the pluck of
the man who dived into the net, but suggested that very
few women on a four-storey building would be likely to
trust themselves to its efficiency. “ I should think,” she
remarked, “ that the canvas shoots used in parts of Eng-
land would be of great assistance to timid persons.
Could not a light line be attached by which they could
be hauled up to the highest storey by throwing the line
over part of the building ?” And, come to think of it,
why not ?
Two more engagements are whispered here. One is
between a high dignitary of the Church and the pretty
daughter of a well-gilt grazier. The other is between a
lately-gazetted military man and a station girl known for
her uncommon first name.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKNEHI.
*°v
v #4*
tfta/icA/
The Quest for Beauty is woman’s one eternal
pilgrimage. And it is surprising how many meet their
Mecca through the virtues of that dainty Russian Skin
Pood, Valaze. The charm of a clear, radiant complexion
comes to all with the use of this excellent preparation.
Valaze conjures away in the shortest while all such facial
blemishes as Wrinkles, Orowsfeet, Sallowness, Freckles,
Tan, and Pimples. It will not harm the most sensitive
skin, being- compounded from rare balsamic herbs that
grow only on the slopes of the Carpathian Moun-
tains, and prepared under the direction of Dr.
Lykuski, one of the foremost Skin and Complexion
Specialists in Europe. Costing only 3s. 6d. and 6s.
a jar, it has the further virtue of being inexpensive.
Guaranteed not to encourage the growth of hair. When
used in conjunction with Valaze Herbal Soap the fullest
benefits are ensured. Posted, of course 6d. must be
added. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure is another
toilet requisite that supplies a want of Australian women.
It will remove the most obstinate cases of this distressing
complaint; 2s. 6d. tin, posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap,
compounded from almonds and rare herbs, greatly assists
the beautifying action of Valaze, feeds as well as cleanses ;
2s. cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair Killer, a sure and
speedy remover of superfluous hairs, destroys the roots ;
55., postage 3d. “ New Guide to Beauty ” —a little
brochure on the care of the skin and complexion, revised
to include the latest European beauty achievements.
Posted free for 3d. in stamps, or free with the purchase
of any Valaze preparation. All these Valaze toilet articles
obtainable from leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne, and
158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Dymock's Circulating Library.
The best writers produce their new books at this period
of the year. “ Coniston,” by Winston Churchill, “The
Treasure of Heaven,” by Marie Corelli, Hocking’s new
book “ The Man Who Rose Again,” and a great number of
novels by American writers have already arrived. Large
quantities of every book of any importance are always
added to the above up-to-date library, so that subscribers
get the hooks they request immediately upon application.
A special rate, £2 12s. 6d. per year, or £1 11s. 6d. per half-
year for eight volumes at a time, is quoted to country
members, while the city rates are, for one book and a
magazine at a time, 21s. per year and 12s. 6d. per half-
year, for two books and two magazines at a time, £2 2s.
per year and 255. per half-year. Exchanges are made as
often as required, and subscriptions may start at any
date. Proportionate prices for shorter periods. Writeor
call for catalogues and further particulars at Dymock’s
Book Arcade and Circulating Library, 428 George-street,
Sydney.*
An Easy, Pieasant Cure.
When one thinks of a medicine something of disagree-
able taste is generally brought to mind. There is no
reason why you should take unpleasant remedies for
indigestion, however, for there is nothing as satisfactory,
or so certain a cure for indigestion, as Senior’s Digestive
Dinner Tablets, and they are as pleasant to take as a
sweet. They make it possible for you to eat and digest
your food without subsequent suffering. You can eat
what you like and enjoy the eating and receive the full
benefit of the food by taking Senior’s Digestive Dinner
Tablets after each meal, or when you think you require
them. They give tone to theniuscular lining of the stomach,
supply elements needed to proper digestion, and overcome
fermentation, sour stomach, and constipation. They
quickly cure the most obstinate eases in indigestion, and
give immediate relief, in cases of heartburn, colic, acid-
rising-in-throat, and flatulence. They don’t purge, but
simply remove the cause of the trouble. They are pleasant
to take and afford you a world of comfort while they are
curing you. Is. and 2s. 6d. per box, or Is. 2d. and 2s. 9d.
post free from Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street,
Sydney.*
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
Dress R^briss
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. -
markTHE varnished board


MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 16, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie.—
Governor Talbottle and his dame special-trained
to Bendigo last week, and the fashionable element
of that city has been more or less worried ever
since. The Excellencies were expected to arrive
on Wednesday morning, but instead they turned
up on Tuesday night and slept in the train. Then
the papers in the morning said they were staying
at the Hotel Shamrock, and the world of fashion
puton its very best bonnet and careered violently to
the hotel to say “Good morning.” It found that the
Exes, were at the railway station, and it tripped over
its skirt and trod on its friend’s best corn in its
hurry to get there. A large special vehicle was
ordered to carry society back to town in the wake
of the vice-regal party ;• but the craft didn’t turn
up for half-an-hour, and .everybody had to wait.
At last the vehicle came, but the driver disap-
peared, and there was another wait. Another
driver was procured, and a procession formed.
The Talbottles drove off with the Mayor and
Mayoress in a carriage, and the rest of the pro-
cession was urged to all possible speed in pursuit,
but the horses jibbed, and the vice-regal party
vanished in a cloud of dust in the distance. When
society did get started, after much walloping of
its horses, there was a break-down, and at last it
had to pursue its disconsolate way back into town
in trams and cabs and on foot. By this time the
Talbottles had disappeared over the rim of the
horizon in another cloud of dust, and all arrange-
ments had gone to pieces. Everybody is talking
of how much better things will be arranged next
time they visit Bendigo.
The feminine world is in a fever of fittings-on.
The stout, difficult customers arrive late and scant
of breath for the tape-measure appointment, and
the slim, spry variety of early worm slithers in
punctually, and uses up the golden hour that the
fat woman had ear-marked as her own. Then
the plump demand an explanation, and a
Madame with an angry air, a flying inch-tape
ribbon, and excessive dignity, reproaches the
tardy heavy-weight, and, after telling her that
patience is a virtue, returns to the figure in hand
and continues operations. It’s an entertainment
to be in the fitting-on quarters before a race
meeting—to see the Fat and the Cream of the
land fight for first place, and to observe the presi-
ding Grace sweep in and out of sight—the omni-
potent power of the period. The haughtiest
trailer of Toorak is humble in the presence of
Madame. She stands correction, suffers pinching,
tugging of girth-straps, and cold slabs of criticism
as meekly as a marble image. She dare not groan,
or sigh, or protest. She endures contempt and
derision about her figure. The presiding genius
is a fearful personage at any time, but most awe-
some in the days of high pressure before a carnival.
The hat-builder is even more autocratic than
the dress-cutter. She has briefer interviews, sees
a bigger procession of customers in a day, and is
just as stingy over her time. Ten pounds a week
is the wage of a first-class thatch-trimmer, and a
commission into the bargain. I know one of the
haughty and oppressive hat tribe who insults the
purchasers vilely, and is consequently held by
them in high esteem. “You haven’t a single hat
to suit me,” I overheard an intrepid customer
remark, one day, to this autocrat. “No,” replied
Madame, in a tone with a cutting edge on that
would leave the atmosphere with blue wales,
“there certainly isn’t a hat in my department
made for a head like yours, Mrs. Blank.” Then
Mrs. B. looked like a thunder-cloud for a brief
moment. But the purple faded out of her coun-
tenance, the claret hue of rage died down, and a
pale, ashamed, humiliated female begged Madame,
with a sob in the supplication, to produce some-
thing that would suit. “You’re really a brute,”
went on Mrs. Blank, with a pathetic, feeble, little
smile, “but I daren’t trust myself abroad in any
hat but of your build.” And Madame, mollified,
deigned coldly to discover something of fabulous
price that would do. This is gospel truth.
There’s a sudden inrush of returned gadders
from abroad, though it is the pose of the vulgar
rich from Australia who revolve in London that
Australia is “an unbearably dull, profitless hole
for the moneyed.” Someone wrote to me, only
the other day, from the Cold Country : “ Aus-
tralia’s all right for the little grub. The butterfly
has her place in the garden cities of Europe.
Everywhere we Australians find each other glad
of getting a run for our money in the brilliant
centres of teeming life. When I have spent all
my capital, I shall be glad to crawl back home (?)
to die or make some more money.” I eschew
polities as a rule, but I can’t help hoping that the
Commonwealth will devise a net of some sort to
catch such fine butterflies and take some of the
burnish off their wings.
MissEvaßobertson, one of the returned gadders,
is lying low on the weather bow for the time.
She will rise in all her chiffon glory during the
November carnival. The time is not ripe yet for
a display. A wise flutterer does not waste effects
—she studies the psychological hour for her
arrivals and departures. The Dowager of Clieve-
den gave a lot of thought to this branch of her
social training.
A Mary Anne story hot off the hob. The other
day, the peace of a suburban establishment was
broken up by the maid of the mop giving notice,
after serving well and faithfully for years.
The mistress went into hysterics, and the head of
the house into the kitchen to demand at intimate
quarters the reason. Mary Anne up and spoke
her mind. She was getting no male attentions
paid her in the house. Himself, she said, reproach-
fully, was for ever at his office or out at card-
parties. The two sons of the house failed to
regard her as anything approaching a weddable
She, and the men visitors had eyes only for
the one ewe lamb of the establishment. A
“place” that yielded no agitations to the heart
was no use to her, so she was for skipping away
to a seaside resort, in the hope of “going off”
this summer. An increase in the weekly wage
didn’t prove alluring, and as the head of the
house wasn’t prepared to offer himself or one of
the sons as hostage, the piqued young person
decamped. Every domestic help now asks,
“ What prospects ? ” and the registry marms say
candidly, “No men.” “ Then no Mary Anne.”
Which reminds me of a story of a satisfied Mary
Anne. Yes, she admitted the work was hard.
But the place had its compensations. “Master’s
hobby was making love to the servants.”
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Butler head a large fluffy
contingent sailing for Maoriland next month.
Christchurch calls a legion of the idle to the
Exhibition, and Mr. Burly Butler is a Vic. Com-
missioner thereof. Even David Syme leaves the
Age pen for a lunar month to pay his serious
respects to that Exhibition. By the way, the
long Carlylean David had a birthday a week or
two ago, when the whole clan burst into felicita-
tions, and the small grand-folk shook their coral
rattles in honor of the veteran’s seventy-ninth
anniversary. A wonderful man is the grim,
spiritualised David. Taking no food to speak of,
he satisfies the cravings of his inmost soul by a
gluttonous devotion to work.
Mr. Norman Bayles adds the grace and frill of
his presence to the Bent Parliament. The new
Tooraketty representative has a swagger like a
spirited gander, but is much quicker in his move-
ments than that impressive domestic bird. He
grows in his Toorak garden a special brand of
cornflowers. His blue buttonhole is as character-
istic of his stylish presence as flowing whiskers
are of Ho-jolly Jenkins.
Mrs. Isaacs is gathering in a shoal of congratu-
lations on her husband’s elevation to the Bench.
The stately dame is of the type that can ac-
curately appraise the felicitations. She has wit
and discernment, and can separate the chaff from
the grain better than most other fashionables.
From the political clique Mrs. Isaacs will be
missed. She was a watchful Galleryite, though
her indolent posing and sidelong glance rarely
gave a clue to the sharp intelligence that whetted
its edge. As a judge’s wife Mrs. Isaacs will have
less exercise for her tact and diplomacy.
A dentist and an expert in gems were the two
favorite escorts of Dolores when here. If one was
not on the spot t’other was. But long ago the
same pair of Savage Club cavaliers were just as
much in evidence. Nothing transpired. Dolores
merely smiled that sweet, inscrutable, pleasant,
baffling smile of hers, and passed out of ken. The
pair of he-adorers put by a memory of an elusive
sunbeam, and ruefully resume the forceps and the
magnifying glass of their respective vocations. It
may be that the tooth is dragged out a shade more
thoughtfully, and that there is a shadow on the
brow that bends over the gem, but that is all.
The two vice-regal dames are booked to look in
on the needlework exhibits of the most superior
Penelope Association of this State on Tuesday.
The show is an annual occurrence, and is engi-
neered by the dames of Toorak. To be a con-
noisseur of lace these days is to be of the elect.
The Sylvester Brownes’ fine Heyington man-
sion is in the market. The Dyce-Murphys held
the lease for a year, but they have put their
household effects under the hammer and them-
selves at the Grand, preparatory to taking a
passage for the land which echoes to the manly
tread of Edward VII. The whole family packs
up its kit for a long, long gad. There’s a second
daughter just out of the hands of the governess,
and she is to be launched on the social tide by her
handsome mother in Mayfair.
The auctioneer has received instructions to put
up and knock down the household gods of the
Brodribbs, whose East Melbourne home was open
and sparkling frequently for the last year or two.
The Brodribbs represent one of the few Merino
clans that own talent as well as sheep. The three
or four daughters are cracks with the needle, good
French patterers, musical experts, and jolly
sports. They setoff for a long stretch of globe-
trotting—their fragile mamma in charge.
Mrs. Willie Drummond was “at home" at
Toorak, the other day. The Cream, which was
quite largely represented, disported in its spring
raiment, the day being golden. The bunchy little
hostess herself was in a milky confection of glace,
with a cob-web over-all, scissored with exquisite
skill. (There must be great art about a lace over-
dress, or the thing mostly looks a costly rag.) I
didn’t notice anybody keeping up “the cream”
figure of speech by parading in a dun-cow tailor-
made or a crushed strawberry silk.
A young widower has a complaint. He asks
with a rather tired and cynical air of sorrow why
the sex invariably blends- coquetries with its
sympathy ? When he first wore the cypress or the
willow, or the prune-tree, or whatever is drooping
and dark, he actually shunned all the young
things of his acquaintance because of their mal
apropos haste to make eyes at him—him that
flaunted the black hat-band of fresh sorrow.
“You have had a great grief,” would murmur a
fair and expressive She, endeavoring in the face
of woe to impart fascination to the gentle tones
and pierce the wounded heart with a fresh Cupid
dart. “ Some of them did not refer in actual
words to my loss, but they looked things, and
made me more disgusted than ever.” It’s but too
true. A widower who wears a mourning band on
his boxer and a look of despair in his eye is a
tempting victim. The sex can’t resist “shooting
eyes ” at him.
A gilt-edged siren who “is given in the dull
catalogue of common things ” hereabouts, makes
such dazzling preparations for the Cup frolic, and
amasses such gorgeous haberdashery effects, that
the haughty Society dame suddenly takes a spasm
of disgust at the whole business. The siren and she,
in their divers ways, prepare just the same sort of
“kill’’effect, and the spotless Madame blushes
vermilion in her conscience, if not in her carefully-
massaged face-scape, at the wickedness that lies
in the planning of fascinating clothes. A lady of
religious views and as above temptation as the
moon is above the tallest earth (when it isn’t
below it) has really no right to spend a small for-
tune making herself unwittingly (?) temptatious
in the eyes of men and envious to the thought of
her own skirted sex. With the siren in question
the dress motif is the strongest passion of life,
and she confessedly (her dress-builder passes this
confidence on) gets more thrills out of an ex-
quisite creation and scheme of frills than out of
all the flattery and love of man.
The demand for stunning white frocks exceeds
the supply. I find that two types of femininity
affect the chaste hue. The lambkin selects white
because it is clean and sweet and not striking.
The seasoned charmer, with several pasts and the
hope ot a future or two and a keen interest in pre-
sents, pounces on the snowy garment because it
looks innocent. There’s a sly naivetd about her
wearing the white. You will see the experienced
killer trip out in her brief, snowy chiffons, look-
ing as fresh (to the casual eye) as an apple-blossom
petal. But to the cynical male her innocent rig
is so pretentious as to be funny. He smiles. And
she, behind the mask of her heart, smiles in exactly
the same way.
A delightful Hawthorn charmer, who was so
seriously ill a while ago that officious gossip
actually wrote her down as already dead, re-
covered, and ran round assuring her friends
blithely that she was alive and kicking. To
further celebrate her recovery she gives a polka-
party this month, which is felicitously labelled
her resurrection hop.
An Ice Carnival is to be th a finale of the skating
season. It is fixed for Cup week.
Mrs. Harcourt Beattie and her King Charles
spaniel welcomed “Harky” back to this city a
few days ago. The star-mummer looks well and
fit, and says it is holy gospel truth that Sweet
Nell Stewart has struck a big thing in dollar-land.
Her throat operation is a recent development
according to the Beattie account.
At Her Majesty’s there has been a sprightly
chorus chick in the part of Mamie Clancy for the
past week, owing to the collapse from ’flue of the
ethereal Tilly Woodlock. The fresh angel is Miss
Grace Rees —one of the most fetching of all the
small fry that cluster round the outer edges of
the Silk Team. The emergency Mamie is spry,
cheeky, and abounding with restless gaiety. One
naturally falls a-morahsing over these satisfactory
substitutes. They all go to prove how indis-
pensable we are not. It is a world of “under-
studies,” waiting to step into somebody else’s
shoes and dance for joy.
The local feminines have been gaping in at a
big Coll ins-street East show window, where a
marvellous lace confection, designed for the Cup,
is the star exhibit. It belongs to Miss Florence
Young. The chiffon firm begged for the glory of
showing it for a few days before it passed into the
hands of its owner. Miss Young gave permission,
and the local She is green with covetousness. ■
The best hot-season models of frills and chiffon
schemes are on show at “ The Belle of New
York,” where an opulent and dazzling drove of
girl has a simultaneous change into fresh raiment
three times during “ The Belle’s ” snappy career.
Each change is a revelation in the fashions of the
coming racing season. It’s an altogether fetching
chorus these days.
A wind-blown procession of guests passed up to
the Princess foyer, the other gusty afternoon, to
shake the small paw of Madame Blanche Arral.
The whimsical little star was surrounded by
posies and baskets of roses presented by her
Froggy friends. It is a nation that most
often puts its compliments and greetings in
decorative form. Madame mingled her broken
English and sparkling French in funny little
fragments of welcome. The guests scarcely
noticed. It was enough that the star glimmered
in festive chiffons of mauve and milk-white of the
Frenchiest description, and that her head-gear
was elegant and gay with Paradise plumage.
Madame off the stage is a smilesome, mischievous
and bird-like little personage. Husband Bassett
hovered about to help on the smile of Madame
when it looked like drooping.
A nursery of exotics found its way over the
footlights to Madame Arral at Saturday’s revival
sing-song. Encore gems and smiles and blown
kisses rewarded an excited audience. The star’s
dress-hit was a snowy, silver-spangled creation,
trained, flounced, and fitting the Arral figure as
the creaseless skin of a Jonathan apple.
A crop of postscript winter showers destroyed
the spectacle of Guineas day. Also, red-nose
winds were on the blow, and no fair strutter was
given half a chance of shining. From the feminine
point of view the day was of the pig variety. Old
dresses were worn, and a Terrace shoal of flut-
tered never looked less inspiring. There wasn’t
a pretty feminine face in the whole miserable
scene. The Y.R. pens yawned with vacancy.
Mrs. Vallange and Aide Lukin (a regular devil of
a fellah) sort of held up the Stonington end of the
stick.
The prorogation of the Australian Parliament
was reminiscent of nothing so much as a waxworks
show. The G. G., almost hidden by his big
cocked hat with the feathers in it, sat on the edge
of Baker’s big chair in the Senate chamber, and
read, at the rate of about 70 words a minute, a
long speech that began with a remark about the
weather. Round him in red uniforms, blue uni-
forms, and black uniforms stood a handful
of gilded ornaments. Baker at one end of
the table, Holder at the other, stood like
statues adorned with lace like a woman’s Cup
frock. Senator Playford’s big hand disappeared
lower and lower as the G.-G. read on until he
seemed to have fallen asleep. Senator Dawson
grinned behind his moustache like an amused cat.
Keating looked pretty. Out of doors the only ex-
citement was the outbreak of band in the streets.
Two rival field and Naval Brigade contingents,
furnished with much brass and blow, interrupted
the tram-system for a brief while, and brought a
drove of small boys and loungers to the Parlia-
ment steps.
A romance comes from Codville. The scion of
a verra longheaded Scotch family fell in love
with an adjacent station manager’s beautiful
daughter. Robbie courted on the sly, popped the
question, and was accepted. Dad promptly ob-
jected, and the marriage idea was dropped. The
lass issued a writ against the laggard lover and
recovered substantial damages. This was three
months agone. Two months later Robbie (who
shouldn’t have been allowed to travel alone) was
journeying per rail, when he met the jilted one.
Then bygones were bygones, and she promised
again to become his bride a month later. And
she did, and probably the damages came in very
handy for the honeymoon.
Mummer Lindsay, who gave a good account of
himself in the last Musgrove season at the Princess,
is back in these parts after the break-up of the
“ Sweet Nell ” season in America. He is the most
fantastic ex-officah (English Guardsman, bai Jove !)
this town has viewed for many seasons. He
swaggers, has a waist, and glories in an exaggerated
Bond-street cut of clothes and wears a rigorous
“ haw ” expression. He doesn’t say “haw,” but
he looks it. The local girl adores the Lindsay
type. Presently she’ll see him back on the stage
in “ The Little Stranger.”
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Of all the preparations for improving the com-
plexion that have been introduced to Australia, nothing
has approached that ideal Skin Food, Patti’s Beauty
Cream, for purity, daintiness, and efficacy in harmlessly
and rapidly clearing the skin of Wrinkles, Pimples,
Freckles, Blackheads, Sunburn, Roughness, and all Skin
Blemishes, leaving the complexion smooth, clear, fresh,
healthy, youthful and transparent after a few applica-
tions ; in fact, chemists speak of it as the standard of
excellence in toilet preparations. We do not advertise
hysterically about half-a-dozen preparations. We simply
state a few indisputable facts about one, and its users
prove these facts and spread glowing reports of its virtues,
so that to-day it has a greater sale than any other toilet
preparation. Moreover, it is not necessary to keep on
using Patti’s Beauty Oream for months. We positively
guarantee to give you a clear, healthy, velvety com-
plexion if you use one pot of Patti’s Beauty Cream faith-
fully according to directions. Its curative and anti-
septic properties have brought it into great favor, also
with gentlemen after shaving ; and Burns, Cuts, Scalds,
Bruises, etc., are healed almost instantaneously by apply-
ing a small quantity of Patti’s Beauty Cream. Price
3s. 6d. and 6s. per pot, of all Chemist and Stores through-
out Australia and Hew Zealand.
Next session it is to be hoped the Austra-
lian Government will introduce a reasonable pro-
portion of its Bills in the Senate, and give that
body no excuse for getting in a rage and a flurry
later on. In the early part of the 1906 session
the Senators had little to do except count their
own feet, and yawn and adjourn, while the last
week or two found them rejecting Bills recklessly,
sitting late, perspiring bitterly, angry, bustled,
unreasonable and disordered about the hair.
Even Neild’s moustache went somewhat to pieces
amid the general mismanagement.
scram’
s*
For Outdoor Costumes, a Perfect stockinet.
Anatomically Made*
Full Sizes.
u
KLEINERTS.
ft
COR
V\
o/m
w W|
■ 'i ■■ ■'.
: r
for (sr&ce
<oCle§2vnce of <3K&pe,
dSeduty- of De/*!<gr\.
I®
‘."lke Hi‘jjke/1
Acl\ieve**e*\l
jrv Coriet
M jKrvufisclure
HERES A
NICE
CUP OF TEA
I
m
m
IPTONS
Teas
ALL GROCERS
Duncan Preston (SI Co
Sole Representatives for Australasia,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


POLITICAL
POINTS
A Bill containing but one clause has
appeared in the M.L. House of Beps. It aims at
the suppression of that unspeakable fraud, the
Maori tohunga. The calling together of large
bodies of niggers for prophecy, drink, healing,
divination and needless consumption of pig, will
be peremptorily stopped, and new prophets will
be fined £lO for the first shriek of prophecy.
As T. C. Carey, Federal Labor candidate
for Corangamite (Vic.), well puts it, “the Labor
party believes in the purity of the home plus
bread and butter.” Anti-Sosh spouters about
“ home purity ” don’t trouble themselves regard-
ing the provision of bread and butter for the
worker. The man who is brought to starvation
by the enforcement of their other political
doctrines is evidently supposed to chew an occa-
sional chunk of purity.
STILL HOMELESS.
Still no definite action has been taken towards estab-
lishing the Fsderal Capital.
PROVINCIALISM : “ But what are you worrying
for, Miss? Ain’t you got good enough
lodgings ? ”
COMMONWEALTII: "Oh, yes, but there's no getting
away from you.”
The Freetrader is a blind bat. He is
squealing in England and along the cables be-
cause some Germans have bought a Welsh coal-
mine. If the German bought coal in Wales at a
few shillings a ton and shipped it for use in
German factories, run by German workmen, and
then swamped Britain with the manufactured
product, England wouldn’t raise a squeal. But
when he buys a coal-mine, instead of coal, the
welkin or some other old object rings with the
shriek of horror.
DISINTERESTED ADVICE.
The Deakin party is impossible.'— Reid, at. Warrnambool.
RED: “ Don't you 'ave nothin' to do with im, lady ! Eain't neither heligible nor respectable!"
The gold dredgers of Otago (M.L.) want
statutory preference to unionists, and they got
a man who was handy with the pen to draft a
petition to Parliament. The concluding sentence
went this way :
Trusting witli the simple confidence of childhood our
humble petition will meet with the full, ungrudged favor
of your honorable House, and in sincerity, gratitude and
duty your memory will be cherished while there is a
glistening peak of old Maoriland above the billows of the
blue Pacific.
When any business is being done in the
Commonwealth Houses the agitation of the Argus
becomes distressing, and its concern for the tor-
tured M.11.R. and the over-wrought Senator
would move dead elephants. When the two
Houses were busy finishing up the work of the
session the Conservative daily press was ready to
weep for the mental and physical stress to which
politicians were subjected. “ Never before were
members subjected to so severe and unfair a strain
as they are enduring now,” cried the Argus. The
sympathetic paper spoke of “wearied and som-
nolent members,” and “physical exhaustion and
nervous strain,” with tears in its type. What
actually hurt the Argus was the agony of
beholding some democratic work being done, and
considering the shocking possibility of more being
accomplished. If there is any doubt on this point,
consider the airy and cheerful comments of the
“ great daily ” when the Opposition was keeping
the House in a ferment all night, stonewalling
desperately to prevent any public business being
attended to.
Quite recently, England grew tired of the
position of rubbish heap to Europe, and passed
the “ Aliens Act,” under
which foreigners who
are unable to show that
they are possessed of £5
each Are refused admis-
sion to the country. At
first the Italian rejects
were very numerous, but
after a while they
dropped marvellously.
Occasionally a penniless
Italian came ashore,
could only produce 2d.,
and was sent on board
again, only to come
ashore a second time next
day, armed with suffi-
cient funds to get him
through. Yet the Italian
colony seemed as beg-
gared as ever. Investiga-
tion proved that a society
called the “Sons of
Pompey,” or something,
now lends indigent
Italians the necessary
£5, then meets them as
they come out of the
Immigrants’ Office, and
recovers it with a half-
crown or so interest.
The Briton is considering
how best to block this new movement on the part
of Cicero.
The Tory party in the Senate, by its
almost unanimous vote to extend the privileges
accorded to the married Kanaka equally to the
Kanaka who is leading an immoral life with some
woman that he isn’t married to, has done so
much damage to the gag about the purity of the
’ome that the good old wheeze has had to go into
dry dock for repairs.
The Monkey is also suffering from returned
contingents. In London Daily Mail of Aug. 29
appeared a cable from Kobe, announcing in-
structions to troops and reservists to maintain the
dignity of the army, and set an example to the
nation by thrift and industry. The message con-
tinued :
These instructions are probably prompted by the recent
outbreak of violent crimes, in several cases committed by
old soldiers, in which many police have been killed or
wounded. Armed burglars and other malefactors are
very prevalent. On Saturday two gangs of laborers
fought with daggers and revolvers near Osaka, terrorising
their village. Juvenile crime is also increasing.
Don’t trifle with a cough or cold. Little
colds grow into big ones, and the big ones cause
the trouble, so arrest the cold at the beginning
by taking Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It not
only cures, and cures quickly, but leaves the
system in a healthy condition.*
The present pious Government in N.S.W.
has decided to open the Jenolan Caves for public
inspection on Sundays. The decision is a wise
one, as for week-end trippers Sunday is the only
possible day on which to see the Caves; but
Joseph’s Government has been so steady an advo-
cate of a Gloomy Sabbath that it comes as a sur-
prise.
The first sign of weakness shown by new
Premier Ward, of Maoriland, is the postpone-
ment till next session of his splendid measure for
the prevention of large estates. One reason
assigned is that members should have time to ex-
plain the Bill to their constituents, which seems
thin ; there are many newspapers in Maoriland.
and probably the constituents already know all
about it. Another reason is that the House wants
to shut up early so that it can go to Christchurch
and see the Exhibition. The Exhibition would
surely keep. Ward, by the way, sent a lot of
statuary from Rome for the Exhibition. So far
as the unpacking has gone, it is all smashed.
The Senate, in the last days of the session,
did a piece of childish contankerousness that was
very little to its credit. It was found at the last
moment that the proposed preference to British
shipping clashed so badly with some foolish
treaties that Britain has made with foreign
countries, that the Bill containing it is certain to
be disallowed. Nevertheless, the Senate refused
to strike the clause out, and when as an alternative
a Bill was presented to repeal the clause it refused
to even consider it. It did this on the motion of
Clemons, the virulent Freetrader from Tasmania,
who was wholly opposed to the preference clause,
and apparently urged its retention out of a petty
desire to be disagreeable. Clemons is a marvel at
being disagreeable in a small way.
The Senate had its first opportunity of
expressing its opinion on the “sanctity of the
marriage tie” the other night. The Pacific
Island Laborers Bill exempts from deportation
“ any islander who, being married to a native of
some other island than his own, cannot be de-
ported without risk to himself or his family.” An
amendment was moved to insert after “married
to” the words “or cohabiting with.” Those
Tory champions of the “pewrity of the’ome”
and “the sanctity of the marriage tie,” Gould,
Pulsford, and Walker, of N.S.W., saw in the
amendment a chance to strike another blow
against the White Australia policy, and fairly
tumbled over each other in their haste to legally
recognise the nigger’s harlot. When it was a
question of keeping some more cheap colored
labor in the country, their troubles about the
marriage tie !
The Tories of S.A. Uppish House charge
the franchise reformers with deliberately wasting
the country’s time by dissolving the Assembly.
The Price Government is fixing the date of the
elections as early as possible, and in order to
facilitate the re-assembling of Parliament, it asked
the House to wipe out the polling places at Borro-
loola and Anthony’s Lagoon, two practically un-
inhabited outposts in the wiids of the Territory.
At the last election these cities returned 21 votes
between them, and since then there has been a
further exodus of population. Anthony’s Lagoon
has dried up, and even the resident policeman has
departed from the district. The ballot boxes
would have to be dragged hundreds of miles
to Port Darwin, one by protracted camel,
and one by a specially chartered vessel, at
a cost of at least £4oo—a fearful price
to pay for half-a-dozen bits of paper with
crosses against the name of Solomon, and the
meeting of Parliament would be hung up until
the explorers arrived. As it is already assumed
that the mailman from Anthony’s Lagoon has
perished, the same thing might happen again,
and boxes might not arrive until thousands of
pounds had been spent in search and rescue
parties, and many weary months might be wasted.
The Uppish House, with a full knowledge of the
facts, deliberately reversed the Lower House vote
to drop Borroloola and Anthony’s Lagoon, and
still the fat Councillors rave about the waste of
time and money which they say is perpetrated by
the Liberal party.
A N.S.W. Parliamentary item of last
week: —
The Local Government Extension Bill was considered
in Committee. Mr. Carruthers indicated a disposition to
drop the clauses relating to Greater Sydney and Greater
Newcastle, in order not to jeopardise the main provisions
of the measure.
Which is just like Joseph. He would drop a
whole measure in order to facilitate the passing of
the “Whereas,” and when he has dropped every-
thing to facilitate something there is nothing left
worth facilitating.
The mournful Butler couldn’t form a Min-
istry in S. Aus., so Price has got a dissolution, and
is now busy preparing to ask the country whether
the person who lives in a £l5-a-year house should
have a Legislative Council vote, or whether the
necessary “stake” amounts to as much as £l6
10s. The Fat crowd is fond of beaming upon the
blasphemous parson who says that “the Social-
istic Labor party ’’ would shut the Messiah out of
Australia because He couldn’t pass the education
test. But the same Fat. crowd doesn’t see any
harm in a franchise which would bar Him out of
the Legislative Council polling booth, unless He
worked a miracle to acquire sordid property.
Dear Bulletin.- — On Oct. 11 you printed
a picturesque yarn of an alleged speech-competi-
tion to decide the Labor selection for Bourke.
There wasn’t any, and I didn’t throw my clothes
to the wolf who wanted to stop my talk. The
only South-street competition in politics to-day is
that at Balaclava, where four anti-Sosh candidates
for selection have been speaking their little piece
for three weeks, and not one is selected yet. I
was in North Queensland at the time of selection;
and, finally, the Australasian dreamed the yarn
after a pork supper.— Y ours, It an dolt Ji Bedford.
Out of three proposed amendments of the
Australian Constitution, only one will be sub-
mitted to referendum, and that is the one of no
importance—authorising the next Parliament to
hang on three months longer than usual. The
most urgent amendment of all—that giving the
Commonwealth power to take over all State debts
instead of only those existing in 1901—was lost
owing to the laziness of some Senators who collect
payment for work they don’t attend to. A
measure for the amendment of the Constitution
requires to be carried on its third reading by an
absolute majority—that is to say, it requires 19
affirmative votes in the Senate. There were 18
votes for the Bill, three against it, and 15
absentees. For want of one more vote the result
of weeks of labor was lost, and a most urgent
matter is hung up for another year.
PARTIAL ECLIPSE IN THE ANTI-SOSR
FIRMAMENT.
Britain seems to be getting into hot water
with “ the colonies ” all around. Natal has just
bucked to establish the sacred and inalienable
right of every white to hang his own nigger.
Canada is protesting vigorously against any settle-
ment of issues with the Yankee in which Canadian
interests are not represented. Newfoundland
almost talks secesh, because of Britain’s agreement
with Uncle Sam about the cod fisheries. In fact,
just now Australia is the only cheerful and loyal
“colony ” of any size—wading in as it does with a
voluntary preference to British goods.
Recently Sydney wharf laborers, in order
to provide themselves with a living wage, decided
that the numbers in their union ought to be
limited ; in other words, that they should try to
make the work go round so as, to give them all
decent pay. And the S.M. Herald was nearly
apoplectic with horror. Now the Newcastle
mine-owners have decided that, in order to make
the coal demand go round, they should restrict
the output —also that they should supply only
four shipping cos., so as to make the shipping
business go round and give something more than
decent pay. But the S.M. Herald hasn’t been
threatened with even one fit of apoplexy this
time. To the Herald it seems to make a lot of
difference whether a man owns a ship or merely
humps cargo out of it.
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Commercial Enterprise has made rapid strides
within the memory of the present generation. It is not
long ago that during times of sickness or when appetite
flagged and ordinary foods were not relished the sufferer
had to be his own caterer. Beef-tea, the mainstay of the
sick room, had to he prepared at home and with very poor
results as a rule. Now, however, this one-time luxury is
obtainable from every grocer or chemist in the form of
Bovril, with the important advantage that Bovril com-
prises the whole of the valuable properties of beef both
stimulating and nourishing, whereas beef-tea, even in its
best form, possesses no nutritive value as has been pointed
out repeatedly by members of the medical profession.
Bovril is particularly useful as a grastic tonic and is
relished and easily assimilated when appetite flags, but it
is also much in vogue in many quarters for the enrich-
ment of soups and other made dishes to which it gives an
appetising flavor as well as increased nutritive value.*
A NOISE CORNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Noises that were long imprisoned raise their lusty throats
and bawl;
Sound neglected many clients when the “ stonewall ” used
it all ;
Drays now rattle, engines whistle, maggie chirrups in
her nest;
And the kids begin to bellow since our Kelly’s gone to
rest.
Now suburban maidens warble, and now prattle creek
and brook,
Everywhere there’s noise and clatter, but there’s no more
Joseph Cook.
Like an orchestra that hurtles, Earth resounds with song
and dance,
For when Pumpkin knocked off talking other noises got
a chance.
Dingoes howl and bookies yabber, jackasses the earth
infest,
And the brass band howls in chorus now that Wilks has
gone to rest.
Oh I the ancient Yarra gurgles, chuters chute, and
ringers ring;
Rant and rage the bellow-dramas, and the birds begin to
sing;
Merchants grumble, sheep are bleating, panting parsons
parse with glee,
All the tones of Nature mingle in their wonted harmony.
Bull pups bark and fountains tinkle, big steam rollers
rumble round,
For our Cook has left off talking, and the corner’s bust
in Sound.
Lo ! it rises in its rapture till it spreads o’er every clime,
And with wings of pianolas it’s careering overtime,
All the spheres disgorge their music, and the waves tune
up with zest —
Aye, Sound sprints o’er much more landscape now that
Joe has gone to rest 1
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON .
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
Ptft
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagci), Ltd.
FORP’TGN stamp importers,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Steipe
Mattalasse and other Unshkinkable Shiets
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS—
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS;
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.)-
Also at Melbourne.


Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING'S.
We stock
only the
Best
Makes,
Italian and American. The
prices of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
*
Palmg'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
26
Roniscti
Pianos.
Sole Agents—
Paling’s.
These
fine Pianos
commend
themselves
to the art-
istic buyer
New Models.
New Designs.
New Scales.
Price consis-
tent with grade.
Old Pianos taken
in exchange.
Catalogues Free.
Sole Agents
Paling’s
338 George St.
Sydney
61
Banjos
at
Paling‘3
We hold
the largest
stock of
Banjos
in Australia.
Best American make at
very low prices.
All Strings and Fittings
stocked.
Catalogues are yours
for the asking.
Paling'*s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY,
Australia for Australians
AND SO SAY ALL OF US!
These sentiments we like to cultivate, and why not ? We have in Australia as capable men in every
walk or' life as can be found in any part of the world. Take, for instance, our literary profession,
and we ask, is not the list given here one that any country should be proud of? Read this list care-
fully through and let us know if you can beat the works mentioned. Bear in mind, these are Aus-
tralian Books, by Australian Authors, Illustrated by Australian Artists, and Printed in Australia.
NOT UNDERSTOOD, and other Poems.
By Thomas Bracken. 1s 9 cl, post free.
The late Mel. B. Spurr, the gifted and genial enter-
tainer, speaking of these poems classed “ Not
Understood ” among his most successful recitations.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
By Steele Bunn. 3s 6 cl ; postage, sd.
£5OO was paid for the rights of this book, and the
sales have proved that the expenditure was justified.
The cream of the author’s undeniable humor finds
expression in these pages, and the reader simply
must laugh. The country reader will find many of
his own experiences mirrored here, while to the town-
bred man the book will be an education in things
“ out back.”. Good old Dad, after his struggle on the
selection, comes out on top, and is elected to Parlia-
ment with startling results. It is a pleasure to meet
him again.
IN THE. ROARING FIFTIES.
By Edward Dyson. 2s 4d, post free.
Mr. Dyson, in writing of this stirring period of life
on the Victorian Goldfields, fully maintains his
reputation as one of our foremost Australian authors.
The work is full of dramatic incident, there being not
one dull page from beginning to end. The descrip-
tion of the historical Eureka Stockade is finely told,
being graphic and interesting. The love element in
the book is all that could be desired.
STEVE BROWS BUNYIP,
And other Stories. By Arthur John Barry. 2s 6d ;
postage, 6d.
This is a New Edition of an Old Favorite that has
been out of print for some time. The fact that the
once famous stories have been republished in response
to numerous enquiries speaks volumes for their merit.
Everybody used to say “ Have you read ‘ The Book
Canvasser at Barracaboo? and if you haven’t, let
us advise you to. Then you'll want to pass it on to
your best friend. But, lest you should think this is
just a bit of publisher’s puff, take a look at the Press
notice below I —it ought to convince you.
The Sydney Bulletin says :
So many “ Australian ” stories are just now seeing
the light that it is a real pleasure to welcome a
collection of tales by an author who know’s what he is
writing about. Barry’s stories are by sea and land,
and, if there is a difference, we incline to the sea
tales. They are fully equal in picturesque detail to
anything of Clark Russell’s, without the somewhat
ostentatious vulgarity which so often disfigures that
author’s works. Moreover, Barry’s bushmen and
diggers are not cowboys or Californians masquerading
in Australian dress, but such Australian types as are
to be found. All the others are racy and interesting.
We are also in a position to assure the reader that
there are neither convicts nor bushrangers in these
stories. We quote the best two verses out of
Kipling’s introductory poem :
The good wdfe’s sons come home again
With little into their hands,
But the lear o’ men that ha’ dealt wi* men,
In the new and naked lands.
But the faith o’ men that have proven men
By more than willing breath,
And the eyes o’ men that ha’ read wi’ men,
In the open books of death.
HOW McDOUGALL TOPPED
THE SCORE.
By Thomas E. Spencer. 3s 6d ; postage, Ed
“ McDougall ” is but one of the many good things
to be found herein, for the hook abounds in excellent
recitations and humorous readings that are warranted
to “ bring down the house ” at socials or private
parties. An evening spent in the company of Mrs.
McSweeny, Schneider Strauss, and Peter O’Mulligan
would make the proverbial cat laugh. Although hut
recently published, the book is already in its third
thousand and going strong. It will pay you to buy
a copy.
ON THE FRINGE OF THE
NEVER NEVER.
By H. K. Bloxham. 2s 6d; postage, 4d
A plain, unvarnished tale of the back blocks during
the early forties. A tale whose characters live and
move in such a way as to bring conviction to the
reader. And the secret of it all is that the principals
in the story did actually enact the parts allotted to
them, for most of them are well-known to many an
old resident. But life in those days was not wanting
in its dash of daring, and accordingly we have an
exciting race for land, a scrimmage with the blacks,
and a “ Bail-up ” by a noted bushranger, who in turn
is out-witted and captured by the heroine. Send a
copy up to the pater at the old homestead—he’ll
enjoy it and thank you for remembering him.
SEAFARER*.
By Chas. D. Websdale. 2s ; p., Sd ; and 1s ; p., 3d
Most old sailors have the knack of spinning yarns
that smell o’ the sea, but few of them come up to the
“Seafarers’” standard. Our Members of Parliament
who wish to encourage the formation of an Australian
Navy should present their boy friends with a copy of
“ Seafarers,” and we venture to say that nine out of
every ten of the youthful readers would decide to go
to sea, especially if they could be guaranteed such
wonderful luck as befell the hero in this yarn. But
although we can’t all afford to go to sea, we can at
least afford the modest sum asked for this book.
THREE YEAR* WITH
THUNDERBOLT.
Edited by Ambrose Pratt. 2s ; p., sd; and 1s ; p., 3d
Bushranging stories, like far-off fields, are ever
green, and when the bushranger has a noted person-
ality and is not a mere robber, there is an added
charm attached to the tale. Such is the character of
the book now before us. The kind of book one had
better not start late in the evening, for it compels you
to read to a finish, and may be conducive to iate
hours. A good moral tone permeates the book, and
raises it above the usual bushranging literature.
THE COLOURED CONQUEST.
By Rata. 1s ; postage, 2d.
THE JAPAN OF TO-DAY.
By Helen Jerome. 1s ; postage, 2d
LITTLE PITCHER.
By Elsie Lin acre. 6d ; postage, 2d
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
UP-TO-DATE
PUBLISHERS, BOOKSELLERS
STATIONERS, &c.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
AND ALL BRANCHES.
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
“I give you 4 KOOMAH
SPA'! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
, mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
I
%
j 'v v 'V
\~Jh
ii
ER
v Pp O!H
MAtj
y\ WATER)
FLAT SPRINGS
jr;
fLANDS
RNE t S
0/
5/7\C


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Solution ran away from her field in the Caulfield
Stakes, last Saturday, quite as easily as a Wakeful or a
Gladsome of old would have done in the same race, but
the performance threw no light on the mare’s preten-
sions to stay two miles and capture the Melbourne Cup.
The statement that Solution was not “ even extended, 1 ’
because she didn’t need to quicken her pace in
a final effort, is probably an absurd assumption.
The same orthodox expression was applied to
the runaway victories of fifty free gallopers be-
fore Solution appeared on the scene, yet most
of those others were afterwards found incapable
of going faster than when they were said to “ canter ” in.
To this scribe it seemed that Solution on Saturday was
generously doing her very best without any urging from
the jockey. If she be a little faster than some previous
champions that have had a 12-furlong limit to their
excellence, she is all the less likely to possess the rare,
exceptional stamina of a Wakeful. She may—if she
starts—pull off the Caulfield Cup with a 9.5 burden,
but lifer way of clearing out from the field and
keeping the lead for a mile or more is an indirect sug-
gestion that two miles will be too far for Solution. She
is certainly in wonderful condition just now. The
9.-furlong gallop in the Stakes troubled her not at all,
and she nad more admirers after the race than before it,
when her “pretty” appearance was less remarked than
her habit of favoring her off hind leg as she stands at
ease. If there is a weakness in that leg, the new owner
of Solution—who appears to be John Wren, represented by
his apostle, “ Paddy” Reynolds—took a big risk in paying
4000 guineas for her before she ran in the Caulfield Stakes.
Although the rich Debutant Stakes is not always a
trustworthy guide to “ form ” in the coming 2-year-old
events, the running on Saturday struck one as being a
strong tip for the Maribyrnong Plate. There was nothing
“ in ” the race save the placed horses—Tangaroa, Scobie
and A 1 Caaba. Tangaroa won so easily that his 101 b.
penalty will not kill his chance of taking the cake for
juveniles at Flemington a fortnight hence, but there are
greater possibilities of improvement in Scobie, a fine colt
that carried a lot of superfluous beef in the Debutant
Stakes.
* • * *
Boora , by winning the Caulfield Guineas in
good sty ! and good time, has put himself among the
possibles or the V.R.C. Derby and the Cups, and on
paper th . son of Grafton and Melena is more dangerous
for the big events than his half-brother, lolaire, who won
the Toorak Handicap with something in hand. Of the
three-year-olds engaged in the Caulfield Cup the most
promising are Poseidon, Booran, and Ellis, but the history
of the race gives little encouragement to backers of young
stuff. They have won only four times in 20 years,
and as for the top weights, it is notable that no horse
except Paris has carried more than 12.8 to the front in a
Caulfield Cup. A seasoned animal, kindly handicapped,
is always the safest—or least unsafe—of tips for this
rough-and-tumble race. This year, when the candidates
from other States have not had much chance to get
measured against the local fancies, the Cup betting is
likely to take surprising turns before the outside public
will know what to expect and what not to expect. And
perhaps the utterly unexpected will happen after all.
One thing certain at time of writing is that Solu-
tion, if she starts, will be a warm favorite ; apart
from the flying mare from Maoriland there is nothing
that looks specially attractive in the following lot—Solu-
tion, Poseidon, Booran, Ellis, Mira, Little Toy, Demas,
and either Lachland or Wandur. Picking three from the
crowd, th'is scribe takes Demas, Mira, and Little Toy in
that order. Of all the old and frequent performers Demas
is the best handicapped. His weight (8.5) is 61b. less than
he carried home in the Williamstown Cup last year, and
he is thought to be an improved gee-gee at the present
moment. Mira, on the other hand, is a 6-year-old mare,
thrown in among the bottom weights, and only lately
suspected of being a “ good thing.”
* * * *
Collarit’s absurdly bad start for the Guineas
was not more unsatisfactory than the colt’s feeble display
at the tail end of the field. He seemed to lose ground
after'beginning bis stern chase, and the layers of odds-on
never saw anything to justify the favorite’s market price.
An inquiry by the stewards brought them to the conclu-
sion that “ the occurrence was purely accidental,” but
they made no comment on the fact that a similar acci-
dent couldn’t possibly have occurred under the old flag
system of starting. If the “ gate ” makes a fiasco
possible in a field of four, why' not instruct the
starter to dispense with the gate in all cases
where there is no room for it to be more
effective than the flag? Under the old system
the starter would have ordered the Caulfield
Guineas quartette to “come back’’ when Collarit got
left at the post. Very little delay can be caused by false
starts where only four horses are concerned. They must
soon get away on fairly even terms. The accident of a
horse whipping round at the critical moment would not
be accepted as accidental if it happened three or four
times, therefore it wouldn’t be designedly' brought about
by the jockey. With the gate in operation it is enough
for a horse to whip round once only to get left at the
post, whereupon the stewards, in practically questioning
the honesty of the jockey, gave him thfe right to com-
plain that he was denied a chance to put his honesty
beyond question. The gate, where the flag would be
preferable, is an injustice to all parties.
* * * *
Sydney bookmakers are shedding a large, fat
tear about their double-event books. By' a merciful dis-
pensation of the Attorney-General, the operation of the
new Gaming Act was put off until after the A.J.C. meet-
ing, but now it has gone the bookies profess great concern
over clients who have taken doubles, and have one leg in.
It is impossible for these people to hedge in the betting
shops now, and the Sydney bookies want an exemption
fixed up until after the Melbourne Oup meeting, so that
distracted clients may “layoff.” Attorney-GeneralWade
has met this modest request with a glacial ey'e.
* * * X
The Curse that rested on Adelaide’s occasional
race meetings seems to have been removed. The S.A.
Jockey Club got off its two-days Derby meeting, after
several postponements, in perfect weather —though the
course was under water again the next night. When the
floods had subsided, and Noah had again come out of the
Ark, the Hunt Club meeting was heralded by about the
gloomiest weather-forecast on the local record ; but the
storm passed away harmlessly, and left another fine after-
noon. Support, however, as reflected by the totalisator tak-
ings, steadily dwindles. It is certain that the bookmakers
don’t get more than they used to ; and the sly-tote-shops
have been very nearly raided to death. So local sports-
men jeer at the noisy crowd of sky-shifters who talk of
betting as “ a fast spreading evil.”
* * * *
An occasional contributor, who has, in his time,
been identified with Sunday-school work, writes :
“ There is no doubt whatever about horse-racing being
demoralising. I have tried it. Yea ! On Metropolitan
Monday I forsook the paths of industry, and arraying
myself in my best Panama, went out to watch how people
really do enjoy themselves at these ungodly gatherings.
The first thing that impressed me was the veiled hostility
between the bookmakers and the punters. I never saw
any breach of the peace, but the hostility was obvious.
Looking- round, I found only two Jewish bagmen. The
others were mostly tall, vigorous specimens of the Anglo-
Australian, and under middle age. After watching a
couple of races, I found that I was getting demoralised.
I had been told a ‘ cert.’ for the Metropolitan, and before
I knew what I was doing, I found myself taking five bobs’
worth. I watched that race with a fearful interest. My
horse lost, and I offered up a brief prayer of thank-
fulness that he had. I really do not know what
I would have done had I got £8 10s. for my
ss. I am sure, had he won, it would have brought
on a. state of nervous excitement which would have led
to sin. Then came the steeplechase. All around women
and men were saying that they hoped there would be no
accidents, and their tones told plainly that they were
hoping for something sensational in the shape of a
buster. I was shocked to find out that I had become a
gambler. At the first hurdles a horse toppled over, and
threw his rider far. I felt a thrill of disappointment
when I saw both horse and rider rise unhurt. There
were other spills, but being harmless I failed to thrill.
At the last obstruction, however, Dingo turned an
awful, glorious, splendid, delightful somersault. I sprang
up and roared hoarsely with the crowd. Surely either
man or horse must be killed. Then a woman started to
cry. ‘They’re carrying the jockey away !’she sobbed. I
wanted to whoop. The horses rushed on ; I was not in-
terested. The cheers of the crowd told that the race was
over. I never even turned to see what had won. The
numbers went up; X took no notice. Was his neck
broken ; that was what I wanted to know, and if it
wasn’t, why wasn’t it? Then I looked at the clock. It
had taken me just 2i hours to fall from the pinnacle at-
tained by a life of righteousness to the level of a beast,
and to the level at which I enjoyed being a beast, and
wouldn’t have left off being a beast on any account.”
* * * *
A Bulletin man lias gathered some idea of what
it is like to be in a torpedo boat. Last Saturday, when
great waves were rolling across Port Jackson, and the
racing craft were being swamped all over the
harbor, he went for a spin in Australia’s champion
motor boat, the Invincible. Mr. Relph drove his
boat through the surging water at 19 miles an
hour. Clouds of spray flew into the air from
the knife-like prow, and fell yards behind the boat.
Some of it . fell on the stern-sheets, but not much.
Of all the sensations there is nothing to equal a
mad rush through hissing waves. Although only an open
boat with a canvas screen over the engine, she rode the
waves like a duck, and the rock and swing in the billows
produced a sort of intoxication. Arrived at Manly, the
boat competed in a handicap, in which the Landseer,
a. very slow boat with an enormous handicap, finished
first, but having exceeded her 10 per cent, allowance of
registered speed, could not claim the prize. The
Invincible finished next, with the Baby de Dion, driven
by Mr. Whatmore, third. The race was hampered owing
to the starter and timekeeper not being present; an ac-
cident to the launch they were travelling in prevente
them arriving in time, so the race will be re-run.
Saturday brought a westerly gale howling and
raging across the Sydney Harbor, and the waves in Parra-
matta River were abnormally high. So the afternoon
was full of disaster and-swamped boats. Sydney Sailing
Club held its opening race, but of 19 craft entered seven
were withdrawn. Of these, two got damaged on their
way to the starting line, and another capsized just as it
arrived there. Almost immediately after the start an
extra gust caught the Alert, and filled it up. Off Steele
Point there was more trouble, Desdemona turning right
over, and Scot and Arawa filling. Then Vision and Merlin
had to retire. The winning boat, Orescent, rushed through
the water at terrific speed, showing occasional glimpses
of half the length of its keel. In the mad rush to keep
up with the Orescent, eight of the starters were swamped,
blown over, or damaged, so that they had to retire.
Donnelly plugged grimly along in pursuit, but never had
a hope of catching the leader, and finished second, with
Australian third.
* * * *
Up the Parramatta River the Sydney Rowing
Club made great efforts to carry out its regatta, but the
proceedings degenerated into a chapter of accidents,
which were comical enough for the onlookers, but mighty
discouraging to the actors. The club’s own four were to
have gone up the river in a launch, but the launch’s
anchor fouled off the boatshed, and the crew started to
row up the stream against raging waves and whistling
wind. Fortunately they managed to get into shallow
water before the craft swamped. The racing started an
hour and 20 minutes late. The attempt to row off the
Trial Fours ended in disaster, two crews swamping, and
the others bumping and fouling so that it was necessary
to re-row the race. Then the Senior Fours were let go,
the contestants being Sydney, Leichhardt and University
crews. Both the latter dropped out, and the Sydney
crew finished alone, but expressed itself as dissatisfied
with the result, whereupon the whole regatta was post-
poned till the coming Saturday.
* X # *
One of the dangers of the motor boat cropped
up in Port Jackson on Saturday. A journalist had a
number of friends out in his launch, and while making
the craft spray-proof slipped overboard, and was quickly
left far astern. When he struggled to the surface the
first thought that struck him was that there was no one
on the boat that could manage it. Fortunately one of the
passengers knew enough to stop the engine, but that,
was all he did know. The skipper-engineer had to swim
to the boat, for it couldn’t come to him. There are pos-
sibilities about a motor-boat when the only man who
understands the engine goes overboard.
* * . * ■*
Maorilanders are confident that they have a
world-beater in their newly-discovered sculler Webb, who
is to race Stanbury on the Wanganui River for £2OO
aside. George Towns is to build him a boat for the race,
but so far there is no word of him getting the loan of the
champion’s electric belt, which seems very foolish on
Webb’s part. If the new man can down Stanbury very
badly, he will be seen in Sydney shortly afterwards look-
ing for the hair of whomsoever wins the Towns-Durnan
fixture. Durnan, Hanlon’s nephew, is supposed to have
left Vancouver Friday last, but as he did not cable his
departure it is still a matter of some doubt. It is pro-
posed to give him a right royal welcome, and parade our
ex-champions before him, and generally shake him up
when he arrives.
*.* * *
Saturday saw the commencement of Melbourne
pennant cricket, on sloppy grounds and bumpy wickets,
to strictly moderate attendances. The Association’s
scheme of district cricket was got under weigh, but at
present the public at any rate hardly seems to know
“where it are.” There are 11 clubs in the first grade—
East, South, North, Hawksburn, Collingwood, Fitzroy,
Saints, Richmond, University, Essendon, and Carlton—
thebigM.O.C. standing out and playing the team with
the bye in each round; and on paper Hawksburn and
East seem the strongest combinations. Nobody did
anything unusual, nor did any batsman get near
the century—Pi nnick, of East Melbourne second
eleven, in the second grade, being top scorer for the day,
with 82. As far as general interest was concerned,
last year’s experience was repeated, a fair crowd turning
up to watch the discussion between the Junior top-
notchers, Northern District, and East Brunswick. By far
the biggest “ audience ” of the day tramped down to the
Friendly Society Gardens, to witness last year’s Ladies’
Cricket Premiers, Coldstream, start their battle with the
exrrunners-up, Emo C.C. The cricket of these damsels is
the same comic caper as of yore, but, judging by appear-
ances, there seems to be more “ gate ” in ic just now than
in the serious variety. Possibly the public rushes it as a
corrective to the seriousness of the football finals, just as
it swarms to comic opera after a long course of melo-
drama.
The first round of Sydney First Grade cricket
ended on Saturday afternoon. North a
three-point win, and Waverley, Gordon, Burwood, Central
Cumberland and Paddington won on their first m ' lin S s -
The afternoon produced only one century, 106, made by
Cranney, of Central Cumberland, against Redfern. Ihe
bowling was better. Macartney, of Gordon, took six of
Glebe’s for 43; Johnson, of North Sydney, bagged five
Sydney wickets at a cost of 52, and in the second innings.
Hopkins broke things up wifh seven wickets for 22 runs.
Dowd, of Paddington, took two of Balmain s for 12. Ana
this in spite of a howling westerly that made shooting-
very erratic. #
J. R. M. Mackay, commonly known as “Sunny
Jim,” is understood to be going to S’Africa about the end
of November. So, after all, in spite of the blunders of the
Melbourne Club and its allies, he will probably figure in
international cricket the coming season, and play for
Africa against England.
Burwood Club is in a bad way. First of all
Adelaide filched its bowler, O’Connor, and now Jew’burg
takes “ Sunny Jim ” Mackay to play among the Chinese
compounds of the Rand.
Someone has been stigmatising the Dunlop
YVarrnainbool-Melbourne road race as a “professional”
event, and the Dunlop Co., with a tremor of indignation
in its voice, rises to repudiate the allegation with scorn.
Incidentally it supplies some interesting information of
the class of men who engage in the great race. The first
prize is £3O, but the struggle for that £3O is nothing
compared to that put up for the certificates and time
medallions. In the recent race a mud-bespattered object
was discovered bending over a badly smashed machine.
“ Why don’t you take the train?” “Train be Mowed—
I’m out for a certificate ! ” he snorted, getting on the
machine to ride the 70 odd miles into Melbourne, with a.
lump of wood for a handle-bar. And yet he had a return
ticket tied up in the corner of his neckerchief. Three of
the Maorilanders who came over paid their own expenses,
which, for bare giving and fares, totalled £l5 apiece, and
when loss of time is taken into account, it is certain that
there was no profit for them in £3O. A Westralian who
took part in the race would have been out of pocket even
had he won the first prize, which he didn’t. Watson,
the Queensland representative, was £lO out over the
trip. He broke his chain 10 miles out of Winchelsea, and
instead of training it he trotted into Winchelsea, effected
repairs, and then, mounting once more, bullocked like
fury to capture the time medallion. As the Dunlop 00.
remarks, there is nothing of the professional spirit about
that sort of thing.
... *
A proposal to shift the Austral Wheel race
meeting, back to the M.O. ground was met with a
refusal to permit the erection of an American board track
around the Oval. The M.O.G. committee was willing to
let the bikists toil around on the shaven grass—dry-
slippery or wet-slippery, as of yore ; but for reasons not
at all obvious they wouldn't sanction the platform
scheme. And now the members of the M. 0.0. want to
know what the committee means by it.
* . * .
O. S. Rolls, about whose safety during the
recent balloon race from Paris to England, there were
grave fears, eventually fell from the clouds in safety.
Rolls is a man of parts and a mighty athlete, and is
recognised as one of the three foremost motorists of
England. His father, Baron Llangattock, is the first of
the barons of that name, being created in 1892. Rolls,
the aeronaut, is identical with the winner of the Tourist
Motor Trophy, recently run off in the Isle of Man. He has
made his mark as a cyclist, footballer, aeronaut, motorist,
engineer and business man. In conjunction with a man
named Rcyce he designed a new make of motor-car, and
about two years ago founded an engineering firm to put
it ou the market. To-day it is recognised as one of the
foremost makes in the world, and has broken several
world records. Rolls is one of the men who have set to
work to solve the problem of the heavier-than-air aerostat
problem in order to circumvent Germany, the Imperial
Government of which is spending a lot of money on the
attempt to solve the same question.
w * Hr *
In consequence* of Wagner’s victory in the
Darracq at Long Island (U.S.A.) the Vanderbilt Oup goes
to Prance, and the next race for it must be held in that
country. In future the contests must be held in the
countries represented by the winners. The U.S.A. m kers
went to enormous expense to keep the Oup in America,
some of them buying up the services of all the crack
drivers available to prevent the foreigners getting the use
of their services. Which was darned bad sport, even if it
was good patriotism. But the big European makers keep
their crack drivers on permanent salaries, and Yankee
gold was powerless. France has won the Vanderbilt Cup
both the years it has been in existence.
* * ■* *
The Dunlop Non-stop Reliability Test will take
place over 1000 miles of Victorian roads next month.
The recent Scottish reliability test seems to have been on
the same lines and over similar roads—the big landlords
of North Britain apparently declining to tax themselves
to make decent thoroughfares. Twelve of the competi-
tors stopped through troubles with carburetters, result-
ing in total loss of 143 minutes, and due to dirty tanks
and badly-strained petrol. The stops from faulty ignition
were 32, which, in the majority of cases, meant changing
plugs, and 79 competitors lost 438 minutes on the 671
miles run from this cause. Tyre troubles cost 885
minutes, of which 93 minutes were lost by one car alone.
A significant feature was that 13 cars fitted with Dunlops
came through without any tyre troubles at all. But, all
told, only 9hr. 40min. were lost by all the competitors in
a total distance of 50,000 miles over lamentable mountain
roads, under stringent non-stop conditions.
*•' » *
The threatened long-distance bike-match be-
tween T. Larcombe and R. W. Morgan, of N.S.W. and
Victoria respectively, appears to have been largely a
matter of skite. After much bluster and talk of putting
up “ a century,” the thing seems to have suddenly fallen
down dead. They started off scratch together in the
Warrnambool race, and apparently worked very hard
with their mouths as well as their feet. This sort of thing
wants severe discouragement. There is enough eloquence
in Australia already without the bike sport becoming a
talk to a finish.
* * * *
As everybody expected, Maoriland flew off the
handle over the success of the local riders in the Warr-
nambool-Melbourne Road Race. Christchurch Press and
Lyttelton Times threw politics over for once and spread
themselves about the race in their leading columns. The}'
take everything very seriously in Maoriland. In Aus-
tralia they take nothing seriously enough.
* * * *
The men who run the Australian game of
football have ideas and imagination. If the game does
not eventually drive Rugby clean out of the field, it will
not be because of the lack of good management. The
latest proposal is to supplement the usual competitions
by one between the States. The premier teams of the
six States and Maoriland will playoff a competition to
decide which club is the Australasian premier. This is
thinking on a continental scale, and the idea is a fine
large one, that deserves all the success it gets. It will
mean considerable expense, but no doubt the keen
interest taken in such a struggle will more than make it
good. Large ideas pay if they are attractive.
* * * •
The alacrity with which the alleged betting
shops, two-up schools and totes put up the shutters, and
sold their furniture on the arrival of the Anti-Gambling
Act was, to say the least, dubious. There is more than a
suspicion that they simply sold their furniture to each
other, that the two-up schools are still in full blast, and
that some of the totes are still operating, while it is well-
known that any person who is known can get all the odds
he requires.
» * « *
The ancient and honorable establishment of
Mick Simmons, whose headquarters are in the Hay-
market, Sydney, and branches everywhere, has issued 120
pages of reading of vast interest to fishermen. Having
caught the intending fisherman it dilates on the glory
and joy of the game, and tells him how to acquire the
rudiments of the finny art. From that it leads him
through various stages in which he is taught the pecu-
liarities of each denizen of the water, where to look for
it, and what to do when he has found it. Everything
that a man may require to haul a fish out of the water is
catalogued, with the price opposite in plain figures. It
is wonderful what a lot of tools a man can use to haul a
fish out of the water. The writer developed a style of
fishing of his own in Maoriland. He used to lie down
under the shade of a tree on the river bank, with a bottle
of the right stuff, a supply of cigars and a blow-fly
shield, and watch Otanomomo (a Maori maid) dive into
the water and toss the fish out on the bank. Mick Sim-
mons doesn’t stock that fishing apparatus—or, if he does,
the catalogue doesn’t mention her.
* * * *
Memmott, before leaving Melbourne for Maori-
land, played some exhibition billiards with Arthur Tricks,
the Vic. amateur champion, and Vockler, the racing
tipster. Tricks, receiving SOO in 1500, won bv 173 points,
although his highest breaks were insignificant in com-
parison with Memmott’s. He played the more consistent
game at the outset, and never slackened sufficiently for
the scratch man to catch him. Vockler had a start of
.500 in 1000, but was beaten by nearly 100 points. In his
games of pyramids with both men, Memmott failed to
show any “ champion ” superiority. Their tactics were
as clever as his, and they made the “pots” with equal
precision. Conceding two balls in each case, Memmott
played three games with Tricks and nine with Vockler,
and the amateurs won eight out of 12 between them. It
looked as though they could have held their own
with the pro. on level terms. Something like ex-
cellence in pyramid and pool play is attainable
by any of the high-grade amateur billiardists.
When John Roberts was a young man he ranked
as the champion at pyramids. There was a billiard-room
in Cornhill where stockbrokers and other members of the
non-working class played expensive pool every after-
noon—£3 to go in and £1 a “life.” This hot game was
open to all-comers. They barred nobody. Champion
Roberts could drop in and take a ball if he cared to, but
he rarely took his chance of winning or losing a few quids
at that school of pool.
• * * *
“Squidge”: That Philadelphia Jack O’Brien
did not send to John Wren that beautiful fake telegram
about Australia’s objectionable legislation seems to be
more or less proved by the receipt in Melbourne of a
letter from Dick Stevens, formerly of Melb. Argus, but
now of ’Frisco. Stevens met O’Brien in ’Frisco, and the
dudish punching-man was then on his way to catch the
Sierra for Australia. But while in the earthquake city
he received from the Los Angeles Club an offer of entic-
ing terms for a match with Tommy Burns. He accepted,
threw' Wren overboard, and stayed in the States. Later
on, it appears, other easy and profitable offers came his
way, also he heard a good deal about Squires’ damaging
capacity, and he stayed away some more. Wren’s
announcement that O’Brien had retired in disgust owing
to socialistic legislation was possibly made in the hope
that it would postpone the passage of the Anti-Boxing
Bill through Bent’s Parliament. With the Bill shelved
for this session, John would have all the long recess in
■which to put his stable in order, and there would always
be the chance of Judkins fading right out of public notice
in the interval.
•***■*
The many smashes of wooden rims and single-
tube tyres in road races led the Dunlop Rubber Co. to
prohibit their use in the numerous contests it promoted.
The trouble was that no single-tube tyre then on the
market could absorb the vibration, and the strain was
thrown on a rim never intended to stand it. The Dunlop
Rubber Co. has now turned out a single tube road-racing
tyre, rubber-covered, and of weight and strength sufficient
to effectually absorb shocks that would reach the rim
through any path-racing tyre. The tyre has the advan-
tage of being repairable in the same manner as the
Dunlop Path Racer, and ,a further advantage is the
impossibility of it blowing out, as the fabric is not lapped,
but made in one continuous piece.*
* * * *
The tragedy at Blenheim (M.L.), in which nine
persons lost their lives by the foundering of a motor
launch, reminds of a danger which is very great in N.S. W.
The law which provides that all steamboats plying for
hire must be provided with life-saving apparatus, does
not, apparently, apply to oil-propelled craft, nor is there
any legislation which provides for their surveillance. The
modern oil launch swarms not only on Port Jackson, but
elsewhere about N.S.W. You ‘can cruise all day in
Broken Bay, the Hawltesbury, and other places, miles
away from assistance, in an open motor boat, driven by
a man who is the judge of his own qualifications, and on
hardly any of them is there a pretence of providing life-
saving gear. And the capsized motor floats like a ton
of rock.
* * ♦ *
Sam Berger, the coming Yankee pug, who
fought champion O’Brien to a standstill in six rounds
recently, is a 22-year-old Hebrew of French parentage.
Berger was heavyweight amateur champion of California
before he dropped his status to take on O’Brien, and
reversed the usual procedure of American pugs by being
an actor before he was a boxer. Berger completely
outdoes O’Brien in gentility. The New York World, in
a recent description, says he might be mistaken for a
University student, only he seems to be better educated.
Albert Goldie, the Australian newspaper man, who left
Australia with Janet Waldorf’s contoured the States in
the same co. as Berger two years ago. The prospective
champion was then studying Shakspeare, which he knew
almost by heart, and the dream of his life was to plav
Hamlet.
(Continued on page hi.)
"MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
Biliousness and Indigestion.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills taken at
the First Indication will save much
Suffering.
Biliousness and indigestion are most distressing
complaints, and nothing tends to make the victim
more irritable or weaken the whole system than
constant recurring attacks. Much suffering would
be averted by keeping a bottle of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills at hand, and at the first indi-
cation to take one or two. Read what Mrs. Alice
Bowden, of 349 Balmain Road, Leichhardt,
Sydney, says:—“For some years Dr Morse’s
Indian Root Pills have been our family medicine.
A.t one time I was frequently attacked with
biliousness and indigestion, and could find nothing
to give me relief. Now upon the first indication
of any of the symptoms I take a couple of these
pills, which at once put me all right, and correct
my system. lam always putting in a good word
for Dr. Morse’s Pills, which, I am sure, are the
best remedy for general complaints, and I always
keep a bottle in the house.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a safe, sure, and reliable remedy,
and will prevent many of the ailments so common
if taken occasionally to keep the system in a
healthy condition. They are purely vegetable,
and will be found a perfect medicine for every
member of the household. They are a positive
and permanent cure for biliousness, indigestion,
constipation, headaches, sallow complexion, liver
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils, blotches,
and for female ailments.*
IF YOU WISH TO BUY, SELL, OR HIRE
A MOTOR LAUNCH,
A MOTOR CAR,
Or HARINE ENGINE,
Call or ivrite for List and. Booklet.
THE MOTOR LAUNCH & CAR SALE AGENCY, LTD.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY. TeL 1760.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCU, Brewer by Appointment
to Hi§ Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILI & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


Lord Kitchener.
Sir Henry Irving
P *
m
m
£
wr
m
Sir Edmund Barton.
TESTIMONIALS s
Loud Kitohkner writes: “He much
enjoys Marsuma Cigars.”
Sir Henry Trvinc, writes : “They are
of very fine quality.”
Sir Edmund Barton considers quality
excellent.
SOLE AGENTS*
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOTHERCILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
MR. DAN REDD AN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic.
Mr. DUNCAN McLEAN, Creymouth, N.Z.
Messrs. AULD & SONS, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & CO., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. P. A. 0. BYRNE, Launceston, Tas.
R. W. SWAN, Adelaide.
Cycling* Road Race.
In the great Dunlop Road Race, Warrnambool to
Melbourne, D. D. Rilev was the winner. His
SXith MIRACULUM.
And in spite of a puncture in his front tyre,
picked up somewhere about Geelong-, he won'.
COPY. READ THIS.
Melbourne, 2flth September, 1906.
MIRAOULUM COY.
Dear Sirs,—With the greatest of pleasure, I write
giving you my opinion of MIRAOULUM, as I owe my
win in the great Warrnambool to Melbourne Road
Race last Saturday to that compound, having ridden
from Geelong to Melbourne with a pin right through
my front tyre, which is still in it, and the tyre, With-
out having a pump near, is as hard as it was when
I left Warrnambool. I feel perfectly satisfied that
MIRACULUM does not effect the resiliency of the
tyres, and, from this experience, I can assure you
that I will never be without it in my tyres.—l remain
your faithfully, (Signed) D. D. RILEY.
MIRACULUM does not effect the resiliency of
the tyres. It does NOT perish or impair the rubber
m any way. Users of Miraculum are satisfied on this
point, and we guarantee all inner tubes sold by us if
charged with Miraculum. Need we say more ? If you
cannot get Miraculum from your dealer, write
Miraculum Corporation Ltd.,
395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
N.S. W. Court of Marine Inquiry has again
had before it the grievance of vessels trading
between Sydney and Newcastle against the sea-
going tugs. This case—the matter of the Tun-
curry and Advance collision—was easily decided ;
practically there was no defence. The Tuncurry,
a coasting passenger boat with about 20 people on
board, left Sydney bound north at 11 p.rn. About
an hour later the tug Advance left for Newcastle,
and rushing along at full speed overtook the pas-
senger ship, and, but for a hasty turn of the latter’s
wheel, would have sunk it instantly. It was
alleged that the Advance was, at the moment,
in charge of a raw youth, who could ex-
plain nothing. As the Tuncurry’s lights
were burning brightly, the only inference
was that all on the tug were asleep except the raw
youth. Usual finding—no one to blame. The
towing industry between Sydney and Newcastle,
generally understood to be highly profitable, is in
the hands of two wealthy firms; and time and
again ponderous authorities have warned these
firms of the grave danger in running their high-
speed powerful tugs between the two busy ports
without at least two certificated officers on board.
Some night there will be a tragedy off the coast,
and the Government, which merely gives warn-
ings, and lets things slide, will have to shoulder a
heavy responsibility.
[COPYRIGHT.]
“STARVING FOR MUSIC
“No Time to Practice.”
These words, quoted from a letter of a correspon-
dent, express the condition existing to-day in thou-
sands of Australian homes. Can you picture to your-
self what real lasting pleasure is brought into such
homes when there is added a PIANOLA, the standard
Piano-player of the World ?
The Metrostyle is the most important development of the piano-player since
the Pianola itself was first produced. It is an invention which means so much
to the world of music, that the enthusiasm it evokes is apt to be mistaken for
exaggeration.
Briefly, the Metrostyle is a contrivance by which the person, with no musical
tiaining whatever, is enabled to reuder a composition with the artistic finish
of a vituoso. Any person who aims to keep abreast of the times, owes it to
himself to hear and understand something of this wonderful invention, which
is destined to have a most important far-reaching influence.
When it is realised that with a half-hour’s practice
the METROSTYLE PIANOLA can be played by ab-
solutely everyone, even though they may not know
one note of music, the tremendous value to the
music-lover is apparent.
We want to send (free of cost) an interesting book about this instrument to
every person who loves music, and would like to have more good music in the
home. Ask for Catalogue N.
HENRY fl. BIRGE & CO.,
Warerooms, 357 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches at 185 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE; 311 QUEEN ST
BRISBANE; and 38 KINO WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE.
The genuine Pianola is sold in Australia by the above only, and by Nicholson- & Co
Perth, Fremantle, and Kalgcorlie, W.A. '*
RUGELMANN’vS
4*
&
'I
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE & 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
“Jimmy” Graham makes no concealment
of the grounds on which he is appealing to the
electors of South Sydney against J. 0. Watson.
His opening speech :
He had had the honor of serving the district in the
Municipal Council and in the Parliament of the State for
many years. In the council he had tried to do his best,
not only for the district, but for the city as a whole. He
also referred to his services in connection with the train-
ing of skilled nurses, and in connection with hospitals,
the Benevolent Asylum, and the City Mission.
Watson is a statesman of not alone Australian
but European reputation—a man whose name is
known in every civilised capital of the world, and
little Jimmy Pill appeals against him, not on the
ground that he is an Australian statesmen, or even
aN.S.W. statesman, but because of his services
in training Sairey Gamps ! And the Sydney
daily papers solemnly support this petty paro-
ehialist!
That alow-going old gentleman, Defence
Minister Playford, announces that the Common-
wealth will shortly start an apology for a rifle-
barrel factory. It is to cost £O3OO, exclusive of
land and buildings, and is to employ 38 men, and
to turn out 100 barrels a week—enough to supply
the current demand of the forces for fresh barrels,
provided the forces aren’t increased above their
present humble dimensions. Development into
something bigger (how much bigger Playford
doesn’t state) is promised “eventually” (“ eventu-
ally” is very vague). Playford says that there
isn’t enough business to justify the establishment
of a complete small-arms factory, making 16,000
rifles a year, employing 484 men, and costing
£60,000 for plant. But if more men were armed
with rifles, as they ought to be, that factory
would be kept at work all right.
DUNLOP ROAD RAGE
m
\
\r
WARRNAMBOOL
TO
MELBOURNE
A Big
Tyre
Victory
Look at
this Result
and then
Think!
Ist.— D. RILEY (Vic.) on DUNLOP TYRES.
2nd.—A. BIRCH (N.Z.) on DUNLOP TYRES.
3rd—A. HUMM (N.Z.) on DUNLOP TYRES.
4th. —L. DAY (Vic.) on DUNLOP TYRES.
sth.— W. A. KING (Vic.) on DUNLOP TYRES.
Fastest Time and Australasian Road Championship for 1906
was also Won by H. MEHRTENS (N.Z.) on “ DUNLOPS.”
The Result points to one conclusion, viz. :
That Dunlop Tyres are still Supreme ffor Speed
and Reliability on Australian Roads.
These Famous Tyres have no equal for QUALITY, FINISH and HARD-
WEARING CAPABILITIES, and should be ridden by EVERY AUSTRALIAN
CYCLIST WHO DESIRES TYRE SATISFACTION.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF Aust. Ltd., All States and N.Z,


HIGHEST
QUALITY !
LOWEST
PRICES !
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open face Keyless
Watches, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s. Our
“Nurses’ ” Watch, 255.
DISTANCE IS NO DRAWBACK!
OUR MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT
makes it easy to shop from any dis-
tance. We can serve you in any part
of Australasia, just as well as in our
Showrooms. The most inexperienced
buyer can deal with us in perfect
safety.
SEND FOR OUR NEW
CATALOGUE
and select tlie design that suits you.
Sent post free anywhere, and it s well
worth having. A compact 304-page
Catalogue, replete with all the latest
designs and helpful suggestions.
Solid Gold Alberts,
£B, £8 10s, £lO,
A. SAUNDERS.
Single or Double, £3, £3 10s, £s, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6; 15ct. Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s,
£l2 10s; Solid Silver, 7s od, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s; Gold Filled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s,
22s 6d. 255. 30s.
COMPARISON
INVITED.
QUALITY
PRICE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless Watches, “15s,
30s, 40s, 50s; Solid Gold, £3,
£3 10s, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2 Heart and Floral
Spray Brooch,
12s Gd.
A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold.
Envelope Charm,
12s <»d.
Any Name
Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bracelet, Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 15s.
15ct. Gold, £5 ss; All Diamonds, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Bog Oak Charm,
Is.
Connemara
Marble, 2s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Heart,
13s 6d.
With Gold Bell, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Brooch,
Amethyst Centre,
8s Cd.
With Chain and Bell, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Spray Brooch, set
Pearls, Rubies, or bapphires,
2205.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Brooch, set
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires,
22s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold S Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Opal,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pill. Ciiu-iir,
and N.Z. Greenstone
Charm,
Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar Brooch, set Pearls and
Rubies or Sapphires,
Sis.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure
Double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Dinna
Forget” Charm,
lOs.
Smaller, 7s 6d.
%
/
X
mi
SOLID
SILVER,
£5 10s.
SOLID
GOLD,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Flyback Chronograph
Lever, registering 1-5 seconds, full jewelled, compen-
sation balance, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s; Solid Gold, extra heavy, £l5, £l7 10s, £2O,
£25, £27 10s, £3O, £35, £4O. Guaranteed 4,5, nd
6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone Bar Brooch,
9ct. Gold Mounts.
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. GoJd Seal
Pendant, Bloodstone
or Sardonyx,
10s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires,
£l2 10s.
Similar, £8 10s.
£lO, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin,
' Chain, and
Wishbone Charm,
7s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d.
m
mgsMlm
mmmmm
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval Band Bracelet, richly chased, with
Safety Chain,
255.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
\ * /
lON
ttCOI
BEOK&S SI BXDKIZ ,
Hi
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, reliable, Knockabout Watches-, fc
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30&; O m
* Guard, 99 15s; “Railway, ” 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell Links,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, pure double-
cut Diamond,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
and N. Z.
Greenstone Cross,
10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval
Links,
255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set
Fine White Pearls,
£3 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Pearls
and Rubies or
Sapphires,
20s.
9ct. Gold
Chain,
A. SAUNDERS.
Half-chased Bamboo Bracelet, with Safety
£3 ss; Smaller, £2 15s; Plain, 255, 30s,
355, 40s. 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Pearls and
Turquoise set
Charm,
17s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Bracelet, pure Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires,
£4 10s.
3 Diamonds, £5.
%itll
-
S
~4
m
■
■
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Levers, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 ins, £4, £5; Patent Gold Cases, £4 4s,
£5 ss, £6 6s; Solid Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
Sydney’s Leading: J eweller, \
Silversmith, and O ptician, i
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite New
Railway Station
SYDNEY.


SPRING, 1906.
A Specimen Illustration from Our NEW BOOR of
SPRING FASHIONS Post Free to Any Address.
-
• ~
9>S
iS
n
m
>5
• •
vJR
m
62
No
m
&
&
1
St
&
Wo. 63.
m;
*> ‘ - ■ ■■
mi.
No. 61.
mm,-
«*€
W-
IS
£3sS
S# 1
m
tl
A
■
«r
¥
<S
No. 65
L
n.
$
€>
m.
V
Wo. 66.
Wc. 64i
No. G 1 A .PRETTY HAT, trimmed with a quantity of hyacinths, arranged with ostrich
feathers in white or mauve. Price on application.
No. 62 A CHARMING FRENCH SAILOR, with crown encircled with pink roses
and marguerites and foliage, with either peacock feathers or ospreys arranged for
the side. Price, 55 s. •
No. 63 White Manilla, or Leghorn, or Chip HAT, with ostrich feathers. Price on
application.
No. 64 A Most Becoming SAILOR. HAT, in the new leader pink straw, with wreath of
roses and foliage, soft ribbons under the brim. This charming hat may be
procured for 25s 6d. J
No. 65 is an exquisite Three-cornered HAT, in leghorn, chip, or crinoline straw, simply
trimmed with upstanding bunches of roses and foliage. Price, 48s 6d.
No. 66—Smart little HAT of nutmeg or yedda straw, with wreath of margeurites and forget-me-
nots ; this hat may be finished under the brim with flowers or ribbon tulle,
-trice, oBs Odi
m ordering any or the Model* illustrated above. It Is only necessary to guote the number.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LTD.,
:e dtred
ELBOURNE


>1 <s
/
i
M"'
? -- • X*
m
'
H».v j.'- /pT
(,(,
SO DO I!
?>
JACK: “I SJ10KE CAPSTAN.”
BILL: “SO DO I. WJ YOU CAN’T BEAT IT!”


The latest yellow pupism in Queensland is
the demand of the Boiling Water crowd that the
{2th of July be declared a public holiday !
'Somebody recently wrote to Melbourne
Argus, explaining that the real friends of Aus-
tralian industry are the purchasers of foreign
who wears locally-made clothing supports the
local factories ; the man who buys imported articles sup-
niriVthe miner the farmer, the grazier, all the indus-
tries that produce for the E and on the
nrosperitv of which our local manufacturers depend. If
anyone doubts this let him cypher the matter out, and
he will find that our imports are the payment we receive
for our exports.
This sort of writer is quite unable to realise that
the man who buys locally-made tweeds gives quite
as good support to the local miner, farmer, grazier,
&C as the man who buys imported rags, and he
supports the local tweed-maker as well. The man
who makes tweed at Parramatta or Geelong is
just as good a customer to the farmer, &c., as the
one at Bradford—in fact, he is a better one, for he
eats Australian produce exclusively, while the
Bradford one only eats a little Australian stuff.
And the farmers, &c., do better by exporting
their produce to a manufacturing population at
Bathurst or Ballarat or Ipswich than to one at
Huddersfield, for they save sea-freight. But the
Freetrade person’s yearning to drag something on
to a ship, and to haul something off a ship, is
quite incurable.
“Squidge,” from Melbourne :
Melbourne tramway octopus is a wily beast. For a
long time past, although all lines north of the Yarra
could be travelled on with twopenny tickets, fares of 3d.
were required on those lines south of the River Drain, to
Toorak, Prahran, and St. Kilda. Some members of the
Melb. City Council live on those lines—and they started
to agitate for twopenny tickets. The octopus waved its
numerous arms, and did a big think. It found that most
of the agitating councillors lived within a mile-and-a-half
of the city, so it rose politely, with its belltopper in its
tentacle, and instituted a twopenny section, covering
the journeys made by those councillors. There is another
twopenny section beyond that ( so a passenger can either
do the old threepenny journey in two instalments for 4d. or
in one instalment for the same old 3d. But the councillors
who iive half-way have saved Id., and they are satisfied—
in fact, they spent half an hour praising the magnanimity
of the octopus, because it had voluntarily reduced fares,
and deprecating any legislative interference with such a
liberal public benefactor. Bent, too, seems to have had
dust thrown in his eyes by this move of the octopus, or
else his ear has been privately chewed. Anyhow, he
announced that he was pleased with the action of the
tramway shark, and did not intend to go on with his Bill
to amend the fares.
“ WHY CAN'T HE GROW A DECORATIVE
ONE LIKE ME ?”
Although Mr. Watson is a good man and a popular one
apart from his politics—he is lacking in backbone.—D.T.
Premier Bent has found his “golden-
haired girl” out. “The land-owners,” he says,
“think they have got the Government on toast ;
and prices are going up.” Well, Premier Bent
isn’t the first one who has found a golden-haired
darling expensive. A sober brown darling pro-
bably wouldn’t cost half the money, and might
cook the chbps much better. Bent made the mis-
take of thinking that his Closer Settlement Bill
was meant for ornament, whereas what was really
required was something useful.
In one of the largest of Queensland shear-
ing camps this season was a very popular rouse-
about named Bob Smith. He could hardly speak
a sentence in English, had a fearful German
accent, and wore gold-rimmed glasses and a
scholastic appearance ; but he was absolutely free
of any taint of “boiled dog.” He was a beggar
for work, and round the camp fire at night was
the life and soul of the evening. The “chaps”
used to insist on him singing, and although Bob
declared he had never warbled in his life before,
he rolled forth German student songs with a fear-
ful guttural fervor, and the chaps hummed what
seemed to be the chorus. They wanted him to
join the Union, but Robert had a curious objec-
tion to signing anything; he squared matters by
undertaking to pass his cheque, unbroken, over to
the Union funds when the camp cut out. “Bob
.Smith ” is Dr. Robert Schachner, of Heidelberg
University, who is out here collecting infor-
mation as to the tendencies of Australian
Socialistic legislation. Incidentally, he is
also collecting material on which to write
of the religious, artistic; literary, and dramatic
conditions of the continent. The doctor says the
Queensland shearers are the finest body of men he
has yet met, and that they are far ahead of the
working men of any European nation, physically,
intellectually, and morally. Of our town workers
he has not anything like so good an opinion; he
bases it on practical experience gained while
working some weeks in a factory. He says he has
the poorest expectations of our intellectual
development, for in the churches they talk tripe,
in the theatres they play tripe, and in the libraries
they supply tripe literature. The lack of public
lectures of an educational nature struck him as
amazing. Of our poets, he pronounces Daley
the best by far, and declares that the recently-
dead genius stands far away from the others, and
bears considerable resemblance to his beloved
Heine. Next to Daley he places Roderic Quinn.
For the Federal elections, read “ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
frice 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
rust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.
“Two Seas ” : Re the “saved Kaffir” (B. 2/8/’O6).
The same remarks apply with greater significance
to the “saved ” Hindu. The Indian Government
is careful to impress upon the natives that there
is a great gulf fixed between the Asiatics and
their white conqueror. On the railways, a white
man may have to travel third-class on account of
his poverty, but no natives are permitted to travel
with him. In ignorance, I once got into a
carriage with some natives, but I was at once told
by an official to get into a third-class European
compartment. Native policemen may arrest
their countrymen, but are not allowed to lay
hands even upon a drunken white sailor. There
is a reason for all this. Once let the “niggers”
lose their wholesome respect for the white
man, and it’s good-bye to “our empire in
the East.” Anglo-Indians looked upon the
visit of the Indian contingent to Aus-
tralia as a criminal blunder. The spectacle
of our larrikin class, of both sexes, acting
familiarly with the niggers horrified them. They
knew that the men would spread themselves upon
their experiences here when they returned. In
the native bazaars it would be whispered : “ Out-
side of this country we have met the brothers of
our great Sahibs. They are naught. We have
even handled their women.” The missionaries in
India cause a lot of trouble, and do absolutely no
good. Their alleged converts are despised by all
creeds, and no one but the missionaries them-
selves will employ “ rice Christians.” They make
good servants as heathens or Mahommedans, but,
once converted, you can’t trust them with any-
thing that isn’t anchored as fast as a mooring-
buoy.
Charles Edward Russell, in September
Everybody’s Magazine, describing the class he
met on his way to Australia :
.Sometimes on these steamers the speakers were return-
ing and wealthy Australians, and I was amazed to note
how often and with what strange zest they joined in the
attacks on th ir country. I have never met men that
seemed to have so little pride in the place of their birth.
. . . “ The Labor party has driven away capital, paralysed
industry, destroyed incentive,” and so on down the dark
catalogue of hideous crime. . . . “ 1 should find in Sydney a
powerful and growing movement for secession ; even
Premier Carruthers is in favor of it.”
That was before he got here. After he arrived :
In Australia what is called the Labor Party is the ad-
vance wing of the army that is trying to better conditions.
I came to this conclusion from unavoidable evidence, and
in despite of every adverse preconception. . . . And the
means by which nearly all the English-speaking world
has been led to believe that the Labor party has ruined
Australia? ... It is the Useful Art of Distorting the Issue.
For there is no ruin in Australia —not a vestige of it. . . .
The Labor party has not excluded all Immigration, nor
any desirable part thereof. ... It has enacted nothing
and sought for nothing that has not been made law in
the United. States, or Maoriland, or in both. . . . Finally,
strange as it may seem, however much the Labor party
may influence legislation, it is not in control of any
branch of the Australian National Government. . . . The
real crime of the Labor party in Australia is that it has
persistently agitated against certain evils created by cer-
tain Vested Interests.
“S.R.”: Bananaland politics are still
disturbed. Apart from Premier Kidston’s
precarious health, there are evidences of
Cabinet disintegration. Butterman Denham
plainly showed the bitterness of his dis-
appointment when the leadership passed to
Laborite Kidston. Tolmie, the Toowoomba
journalist, expected the portfolio which went
to Tom O’Sullivan, and has not ceased to
agitate through the columns of his paper for a
Cabinet reconstruction. The Labor extremists—
Lesina, Hardacre, and one or two others —are
keeping up a guerilla warfare, all the more harass-
ing because it comes from men sitting on the
Ministerial benches. Where it will end it’s hard
to say, but it is a sorry thing that a Coalition
which has done such splendid work should be
forced to fall back on the Philp gang for support,
as it has had to do more than once of late.
Two recent cablegrams
The Prussian Government has notified 19,000 alien
colliers in the Rhenish provinces that"they must leave the
country by Dec. 20th. This step has Been authorised on
the ground that the presence of such large numbers of
aliens is undesirable on general principles. Including the
wives and families of the colliers, no fewer than 50,000
persons are affected by the Government’s order. The
aliens are chiefly Austrians and Italians.
In June last 1000 alien cigarette makers, with their
dependents, numbering in all 3000 persons, were ordered
to leave Germany within a fortnight. The reason given
was that the authorities feared that the aliens would
undersell their German competitors in the trade.
It would be interesting to know if there is any
anti-Sosh party in Prussia to protest against this
“interference with the liberty of the subject.”
The attention of our own Tory press and politi-
cians may be drawn to the two reasons given for
the expulsion of the aliens ; also to the fact that
the aliens are not kanakas or negroes, but men
and women just as white as the Germans.
Away up on the Pilbarra (W.A.) goldfields
an ex-postal official receives and distributes the
mails, and generally acts as postmaster. After
giving his services gratuitously for five or six
months it dawned on the Department that the
work was worth something, and the Deputy Post-
master-General of the Great Sandy State for-
warded the following letter :
In order to bring all persons undertaking the receipt
and delivery of correspondence within the category of
employees of the Department and thus ensure some sense
of responsibility, I am to inform you that you are
appointed to the position of mail receiver with remunera-
tion at the rate of £1 per annum, which amount will be
advanced to you in the shape of postage stamps, thus
affording you the means of providing a supply of postage
stamps for public use without having to purchase them
out of your own funds.
The stupendous munificence of the Postal Depart-
ment staggered the whole mining camp. A pro-
posal to burn the D.P.M.G. in effigy and spend
the pound in drinks was unanimously carried.
Good words from the last report of Major-
General Finn (late Australian Military Inspector-
General) :
That the Commonwealth should be solely dependent on
a private company for the supply of its small arms ammu-
nition, as is the case at present, is undesirable ; and the
establishment of a Government ammunition factory, with
works of such a comprehensive character as to manu-
facture, not only sufficient cartridges for all requirements,
but all the component parts thereof, cannot be too
strongly recommended. The works should also embrace
facilities for the manufacture of all shells and projectiles
required ; these have now to be imported long distances
oversea. The establishment of a small-arm factory within
the Commonwealth should be considered without further
delay. It is an essential to the adequate defence of any
country, especially of one situated so far from the great
manufacturing centres as Australia is. The country can
provide in abundance the requisite iron, coal and other
metals, timber, etc. ; and not only would the existence of
such works in the Commonwealth greatly increase its
power of defence, but would afford employment for a
large portion of the population.
From the S.M. Herald (The Bulletin
is inclined to reprint it every week): —
We are frequently reminded how the Boers held their
position against the whole strength of the British army,
because they had the prudence to make provision before-
hand. Our best provision is to use the stores of coal and
iron at our disposal to make our own arms arid am-
munition instead of importing them.
wm
m
w*
'’•Ml
M**;:
i!SISU*
ms
**
v ■ • *■ ,-3»
as
SM " -•
I?*®,/
4H|I
»SI
m
imm
E. ®. A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada, United States of America, and Europe.
Brisbane.
GRENFELL STREET 34> QUEEN STREET RTPITTSmUT. EAGLE STREET.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, (Sic.,
forwarded to any address on application.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
CUP
DERBY DAY—Nov* 3*
OAKS DAY-Nov. 8*
CUP DAY—Nov. 6.
STEEPLECHASE DAY-Nov. 10.
WEEK
LARGE ENTRIES.
#-
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
(217)
“ Svea”
Cream
Separator
No Better
Separator
Ever
Made. . .
Complete
Stocks
of . . .
Repairs
Carried
in . . .
Each
State
This Adv. is Worth
£2-0-0
to You. XeXa
Cut it out. and post It to
us with your order for a 44
gallon "Svea ’’ Separator,
and your cheque for £2m
We will ship the Separ-
ator. and send you back a
receipt for also p/ns
for £3-13-0 each, due re-
spectively in 4, 8. 12 and 16
months from date of ship-
ment of the Separator.
These p/ns you are to
execute and return to us
promptly, thus completing
settlement for the Sep-
arator.
By this means you se-
cure for £l7 a first-class
Separator (always sold for
£l9), and get remarkably
easy terms besides.
We place the Separator
on board trucks or steamer
free of charge at any of the below mentioned cities, and
send an expert to start it for you free of cost.
We are prepared to supply other sizes of Separators on
similar terms. Write us for full particulars and names and
addresses of satisfied buyers.
Each Separator is fully warranted, and in such a manner
as to insure you the prompt return of your money and p/ns
if the Separator does not do good work.
We reserve the right to decline any order.
THIS SPECIAL OFFER ONLY APPLIES TO ORDERS
RECEIVED PRIOR TO NOV. 15th. 1906.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Launceston
and Christchurch.
Agents throughout Australasia*


At 'Cup’ Festivities, DRINK BURGOYNE’S WINES
saitrrßsuaii;
i
,fU
“liscnrtj
ltOlV»:Rs|i
iK>iv^i>/<1(1
i
j
Kntiv
’&
r/p,
oc
SPICIAILY SELECXmWMr
7
woubmdAo
JfeltLßOtißNE
zmm
HOCK..
CHASLLT.
CLARET.
BUROVMDY.
PORT.
SHERRY.
MUTCA.T.
_ MADEIRA.
Imported
HOCKJ 4
MOXELLES.
PORTO' 4
SHERRIES.
MADEIRAS
& CROWN
MALMOEY.
CHAMPAGNES.
£ O UVET-LAD'UM£J r
SAJOMUR.
GOLD-LION
C OCKTAJU!
GRAND MARNIER
LIQUEURS.
HIRANO NATURAL
JAPANESE
SPARKLING
I MINERAL
WATER.
TL.e
_ "UveTWo iMvc j&rrm§3ecif confide
JKe svti e A ckenuyl iksl uvjvlrice
Lffei le&dicn. McU jrvio Gold Ir&Mmvk
I ofien Woivder WLllvAiiverj I>vy
Give nail so preciou? &5 Ike Goods Ikey sell
P.B. Burgoyne fiiC-' L‘-
GROWERS
Offices and Cellars :
130-132 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
And PURVEYORS OF WINE
TO HIS MAJESTY
KINO EDWARD VII.
Vineyards s
MOUNT OPHIR, RUTHERGLEN,
VICTORIA.
Telephone No. 4124
Please Book your Orders now for "Cup” Season.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS * CO.
Brisbane Agents: WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of jjistralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,280,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,480,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.,
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of, Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock . .3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
Ail New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnmiO Queens-
land. Agenls throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and I,lie East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. .1.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas. j
Millie, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager,—W. V. RALSTON.
fhe golonial (Qutual gife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLIiXIS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £80,193,326.
Amount's paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||eiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. •.. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... ,£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund / ... £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle. •
QUEENSLAND —Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.,
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale 01, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
3XT. JO. X_a.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
♦PRINZ SICISMUMD, 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
SANDAKAN, 1800 tons .. .. 22nd NOVEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and {) Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &e.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,615 10 0
Reserve, Liability ok Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve Fund(lh vested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 30th OCTOBER,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC and
PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l4 14 0 to £23 2 - J
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 1 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 o
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A />i Mention.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and,
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and. Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
(3 CE AWIC S.S. CJo. -A-. & A.. LIWE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
, arid Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S SONOMA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, NOVEMBER S, at 1 p.m.
Some people think that “HOMEWARD THROUGH AMERICA” is an expensive way.
Enquire Tor Tares etc., etc., and learn Tacts beTore booking elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
> HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
-
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3NT.S."W
|ontdepieteo.st|.Co.,[t<l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coilins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jkssop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Oct. 29, Nov. 26, Dec. 24.
• i ;
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
Thence by Rail
to
Any Part of
Canada or United States .
THE MOST INTERESTING ROUTE
to
EUROPE.
S3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. ISt
4,
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG,
WONDERFUL VALUE.
X
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard' of the North’s. Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT .. .
held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
i*r- SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS .
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
Sblpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 19.
S.S. Yongala (from
Sydney), Oct. 31
BRISBANE. I
MACK AY,
TOWNSVILLE, ’
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Wollowra, October 20.
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 27.
nest aml Cheapest ttoate to Gold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
hist Fort of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
trench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE fREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui South UJales.
Estahli.su IOD 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1.450,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors . . .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,450,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MaclvkLlar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Horn James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
London Office—Old Brood Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woild.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wi find every omior and convenience at—•
MBS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconifield Parade
SI. HILDA.
r I'HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by cram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day ; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Miss Wills,
%
Union Club,
CHARLOTTE STREET,
Premier Boarding' Establishment; heart of city;
lawn, large garden, cool rooms, good cuisine.


Bananaland’s Tories are fighting every
stage of measure to provide that in
connection with ail new railway lines the benefited
area must make good any loss. Kidston’s atti-
tude is that Queensland is not going to further
add to loan indebtedness on the old plan, and
the Tories must either accept the Guarantee Bill
or go without the railways. If the interest on the
cost of a new line is guaranteed by the area to be
benefited, it is said the Government will once
more hold out the public hat to Cohen. The
Bulletin hopes profoundly that it will not be so.
Queensland has just got out of the position of
being the most indebted country (per head) on
earth. To resume drinking now at the old pub.
—just when increasing prosperity makes sobrietv
easier—would be calamitous.
Amusements.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING—
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
after 3 years’ absence, in
FUN ON THE BRISTOL.
JOHN- F. SHERIDAN as WIDOW O’BRIEN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
BOSTOCK & WOMRWELL’S
NOVEL CIRCUS & fIENAGERIE.
THE PIONEERS OF CIRCUS ENTERTAINMENT.
Opening', SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20,
CAULFIELD CUP NIGHT, at
FITZGERALD’S CIRCUS BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE GREATEST SHOW TRAVELLING THE GLOBE.
Every Item a Star Performance.
THE MENAGERIE
Absolutely the Finest Peregrinating the Universe.
Prices —3s, 2s. and Is. Reserved Seats at Allan’s,
Menzies’, and The Grand, 4s. Boxes to hold 4,20 s.
Look out for the Blind Hypnotic Drive 1
ALEC. VERNE, Agent.
Business Announcements.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT ' SKINS
this .Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to — JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament).
THE 19th ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
of the Members will be held in the Roval Exchange, on
MONDAY. 22nd OCTOBER, 1906, at noon.
BUSINESS:
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th September,
1906.
To Elect one Director in place of W. C. Goddard, Esq.,
who retires (tinder Clause 77' of the Articles of As-
sociation), and who offers himself for re-election.
To Elect two Auditors in place of Messrs. W. Clarke and
F. Phillips, who retire, but are eligible for and seek
re-election.
To consider any other business of which due notice shall
have been given, in accordance with the Articles of
Association. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O’Connell-street, Sydney, 9th October, 1906.
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS A L^T T
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
Tkl. 4552.
Henry Skinner,
Olaremlon-st., SoutK Melbourne!
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
WEAREVER
ALUMINUM
Cooking Utensils,
The Celebrated
WEAR-EVER Brand.
Silvery, Bright, Clean. Do
not Rust nor Chip. Not
liable to burn the food.
Practically Everlasting-.
Wholesale and Retail from Sole Australian Agents,
NEW YORK IMPORT CO., Block Place, Melbourne;
20 Barrack-st., Sydney; 34 King William-st., and
150 Rundle-st., Adelaide; MULLER & WILSON, 98
Elizabeth-st., Brisbane, and Leading Stores.
Rolled Gold Wire
Name or Initial Back Combs
TT is scarcely necessary to tell ladies about the immense
* popularity of our Name and Initial Back Combs. Our
Wire Artists kept busy with Name Brooches, Initial Rings,
Pins and Bracelets, but the orders forthcse Back Combs come
pouring in. Only ss. with any single name or up to three
initials Try one and have your money back if you are not
7» r ectly satisfied. Obta na le only from
Tin Onion ttSfg. &. Aqency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
TOWN HALL,
SYDNEY.
MATINEE—
THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 25th
Centenary Hall
SATURDAY /
EVENING,
OCTOBER 27th.
TOWN HALL.
TUESDAY,
EVENING,
OCTOBER 30th.
Final Appearances.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
DOLORES
The Famous
SOPRANO.
PRICES—Ss, 4s, 3s, and 2s.
Box Plan at Paliner’s.
HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
The Greatest Array of “ Living Pictures" ever
seen in Sydney.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales, “ The White Rose.”
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction of Messrs. CLYDE MEYNELL
and JOHN GUNN.
EIGHTH WEEK of the FAMOUS MUSICAL DRAMA,
THE FATAL WEDDING.
And the GREAT CHILDREN’S SCENE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27th—THE RAKE’S WIFE.
PRICES—POPULAR. Plan, Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDiMEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
Pronounced Triumph of CHARLES WALDRON, OLA
HUMPHREY and Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Now Dramatic
Company in Milton Royle’s Melo-comedy Drama—
THE SQUAW MAN.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Th eat re royal, sydn e y.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
BLAND HOLT’S Picturesque Nautical and Spectacular
Drama,
A SAILOR’S KNOT.
Produced in honor of the Anniversary of the BATTLE
OF TRAFALGAR.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
|^| OW TOURING NEW SOUTH VVALicS,
THE FAMOUS
“ ALL BLACKS,”
ALL ONE FAMILY OF EXTRAORDINARY MUSICAL
ABILITY,
who have just concluded a triumphal tour of New
Zealand and the South Seas.
ALL ARTISTS, ALL TALENTED, ALL CLEVER.
tT v oli theatre, sTd ne y.
1 Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, the Talking, Singing
and Musical Moving Picture Machine.
DUNCAN and GODFREY, in their original Coster
Romance, “ME AND ’ER.”
AGUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumpers.
Miss CASSIE WALMER, Contralto Eccentnque and
Dancer, in her Latest Impersonations.
CASSELLI and JAMES, England’s leading Banjoists.
THE MUSICAL IBSENS. MR. HARRY BEDFORD.
OPERA HOUSE, Ivi ELBOU R N E.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving Picture Machine.
THE ALASKAS, Comedy Acrobatic Artists.
LES CABIACS, French Acrobats.
LARRY LEWIS, Quaint Comedian.
FLORRIE HENDERSON and her Performing Dogs and
Monkeys.
Plan at Allan’s. &M' PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, OCT. 18, & FRIDAY, OCT. 19, Last TWO
Performances of THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 20,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Finest and Best of Musical Comedy Triumphs,
THE SHOP GIRL.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays
BLANCHE ARRAL
OPENING,
THEATRE ROYAL, ADELAIDE,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31st.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20,
MEYNELL, GUNN and VARNA’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY, under the direction of ALLAN
HAMILTON.
First production in Australia of
THE LITTLE STRANGER.
A Farcical Comedy in Three Acts, by Michael Morton.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Athenaeum ha l 17~ Melbourne.
Sole Direction of ALLAN HAMILTON.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20.
Return to Melbourne, for a Short Farewell Season, of
LESLIE HARRIS,
The BRILLIANT ENGLISH SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
in an Entirely New Repertoire of Musical Monologues!
Sketches and Stories.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
PRICES —3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ELBOUHNE.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
ANNUAL VISIT of the CHILDREN’S
GREATEST LIVING OBJECT COLLEGE.
EVERYTHING NEW EACH SEASON.
OPENING IN
NEW BNOW-WHITE TENTS-ALEXANDRA AVENUE.
SATURDAY, OCT. 20.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
Professions, Etc.,
The Treasury, New South Wales,
10th October, 1906.
Applications required by the Government of
New South Wales for the Cliief Commissioner-
ship for Railways and Tramways, and the
Assistant Comrnissionership of Railways, and
the Assistant Comrnissionership of Tramways,
created by the “Railway Commissioners Ap-
pointment Act, 1906.”
Applications are invited up to 19th
November, 1906, from persons fit and quali-
fied for, and desirous of obtaining, the following
positions under the Government of the State of
New South Wales, created by the “ Railway Com-
missioners Appointment Act, 1906,” viz.:—
Chief Commissioner for Railways and
Tramways ; salary, £3OOO per annum.
Assistant Commissioner of Railways ;
salary, not exceeding £l5OO per annum.
Assistant Commissioner of Tramways ;
salary, not exceeding £l5OO per annum.
The appointment in each case will be for a
period of seven (7) years, and the Chief Com-
missioner will have supreme authority in the
management of both railways and tramways.
The duties devolving upon the Commissioners are
indicated in the “Government Railways Act,
1901,” and the “ Railway Commissioners Appoint-
ment Act, 1906,” previously mentioned —copies of
both of which may be obtained from the Govern-
ment Printer, Sydney, on-application.
Applicants should state age, qualifications, and
experience, and also particulars of positions pre-
viously held, and furnish copies of testimonials.
Applications should be addressed to —
“The Colonial Treasurer and Minister of
Railways, The Treasury, Sydney,”
and be endorsed “Application for Chief Com-
missionership for Railways and Tramways,” or
“Assistant Comrnissionership of Railways,” or
“Assistant Comrnissionership of Tramways,” as
the case may be. No personal application will be
entertained.
J. H. CARRUTHERS,
Colonial Treasurer and Minister of Railways
2a3. for the State of New South Wales.
For Sale.
Unlocking the Land.
the midland railway company of
WESTERN AUSTRALIA LIMITED
are continuing- the unlocking of their Great Concession of
2,500,000 acres
of Splendid
Agricultural & Grazing Lands
and announce their
SECOND GREAT SALE
OF
80,000 ACRES OF MAGNIFICENT AGRI-
CULTURAL AND GRAZING LANDS IN
THE FAR-FAMED BERKSHIRE VALLEY,
UNEQUALLED FOR FERTILITY IN THE
STATE.
Subdivided into 120 Farms
from 250 to 1000 acres
will be held in
THE QUEEN’S HALL,
PERTH, W.A.
on
FRIDAY, November 16th
at 2.30 p.xn.
by
JAMES GARDINER, AUCTIONEER.
THE FARMS
are Situated only from 106 to 120 Miles from Perth,
and only l| to 12 Miles from the Coomber-
dale and Moora Railway Stations.
Magnificent Agricultural and
Grazing Land,
Average Yields for the Surrounding Districts:
20f Bushels Wheat; 30|cwt. hay.
And the PASTURE LAND is justly famed for
its FATTENING QUALITIES.
Splendidly Watered by the Moore River.
Permanent Pools, Wells at Shallow Depths,
and Dams that Hold like a Bottle.
RAINFALL: For 20 years 19& to 22 Inches.
DROUGHTS ARE UNKNOWN.
£1,500,000 worth of what can be produced
on this Property Imported into the
State Last Year.
LIGHTLY TIMBERED, AND CLEARING NOT
EXPENSIVE.
SPLENDID MARKETS FOR ALL FARM PRODUCTS.
Upsets , Upsets.
7IS to 45/, at which price,
if no higher bid, they will be sold.
Terms . Terms.
Magnificently Easy.
Ten per cent, deposit, and the balance by
Fifteen Equal Annual Payments by Promis-
sory Notes, bearing interest at the rate of
£4 per centum per annum, with the right to
pay the whole or any one of the promissory
notes at any time, with an allowance of
interest at the rate charged, or the Pur-
chaser can pay cash.
Possession the day after sale.
Upon payment of the whole of the purchase money
the Western Australian Government will issue to the
purchaser a title for the land bought.
TO THOSE DESIROUS OF INSPECTING.
If outside the State, send a letter or wire, stating by
what steamer you will arrive, to the Company’s office,
293 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A. when you will be
met.
YOU PAY YOUR OWN RAILWAY FARE, WHICH
IS REFUNDED SHOULD YOU PURCHASE.
Horses and traps are provided free of charge to enable
the closest inspection to be made.
If within the State, wire or write either to the
Company’s Office, 293 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.,
or the Auctioneer, JAMES GARDINER, HALESBURY
CHAMBERS, HOWARD ST., PERTH.
Missing Friends.
'\\J ANTED. Whereabouts of A. STEWART.
t * who left Hopetoun, August 4th, went to
Echuca, and supposed to have crossed to N.S.
Wales, shearing. Wire address to
HUGH CAMERON, Terang, Vic.
SHIPLEY. Wanted, the address of Miss
Mabel Shipley, who left England, together
with parents, about 1890. Former address—
Welford-road, Leicester, England. Enquirer—
Harry L. Bramwell,
“ The Woodlands,”
Blaina, Eng.
Other papers please copy.
Business Announcements.
Phonograph Song Book.
PHDND
SUNG
BOOK
ONE SHILLING
THIS
IS
abso-
lutely
the
Best
Book
ever
issued.
It contains the complete words of over 70 of the
very latest and most popular songs sung into the
phonograph by leading artists. This is the book
which gives all Harry Lauder’s famed humorous
specialities; new and popular ballads by Irving
Gillette; the wonderful coon successes of Arthur
Collins; also the favourite items of Miss Marie
Narelle, Byron G. Harlan, Harry McDonough, and a
host of others. A giant collection of coon songs,
inarch songs, comic songs, pathetic, &c., &c. This
is the biggest value that has ever been offered to you.
We will forward it, post free, upon receipt of fourteen
penny stamps. Don’t forget the name “ The Phono-
graph Song Book.” Send for it at once.
ALLAN & CO.
276-278 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
VE
IS
Fred Russell
On Ventriloquism.
TYTITH the aid of FRED RUSSELL’S CUIDE TO
VENTRILOQUISM, you can learn how to throw
your voice where you like. It is a practical guide
by a practical man. It gives clear and reliable
directions how to mimic various instruments, dogs,
birds, hens, ducks, etc., how to throw the voice to a
distance, how to control the muscles of the face, how
to work the ventriloquial figures. It explains how
you can imitate a chop frying, sawing wood, opening
a sodawater bottle, etc. It is full of funny experi-
ences, smart gags, witty sayings, dialogues, etc.
It also contains Mr. Russell’s best ventriloquial
sketches.
Send to-day for this book “Fred Russell on
Ventriloquism.”
Price Is., posted Is. 2d.
ALLAN & CO.,
276-278 Collins St., Melbourne.
EM SONG BOOK.
Cs 600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War,Patriotic, Comic, Coon,
Nigger, Sacred, Pathetic, and Loye Songs of England,
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, ere.
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. Most marvellous collection ever bound together
between the covers of one book Price only 2/6, posted 2/10
I f stamps only are enclosed add Ba. extra List of Sonera for stamn
A. J 0 SMITH & Co, Martin Chambers, 6 Moore-st., Sydney
STAMP YOUR
clothing
ONLY
16,
POST
FREE.
How do you mark your Linen ?
Using an old-fashioned pen and blotting and smudging
everything you mark? Or perhaps you’re not marking
them at all. Be up to date. Use this outfit —a RUBBER
STAMP, with NAME in any style of type ; bottle of IN-
DELIBLE MARKING INK (warranted), and SELF-INK-
ING PAD. This most useful Outfit sent anywhere, on
receipt of only One Shilling and Sixpence.
Three Complete Outfits for 4s. 6d.
Or, if you would like the stamp very fancy—something
nice and elaborate— send Is. 6d. extra, and we will
make you a beautiful stamp, with elaborate bordering,
just as you see in the two pretty stamps we show under
neath.
r-o-" —® -«
ROBERT T. McDOWELL. u :
l —«-«—s=f^‘
ss|| &£. f|S^
*’ £MSSV- o
Or, perhaps you would like to see a catalogue of designs
to select from. We’ve just issued a revised catalogue,
and are waiting for your address to mail you a copy, free
of charge.
A. J. SMITH &i CO.,
MARTIN CHAMBERS, 6 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.


P. H. Sullivan, M.L.A. for Darlington
(N.S. W.), announces his intention of retiring from
the Assembly because he can’t live up to the new
Holy Joe*standard. He says he is a plain citizen
who drinks and smokes, and, when the occasion
seems to call for it, swears, and he finds the
public halo a misfit.
Dr. Ross, ex-M.L.A., the medico from
Molong (N.S.W.), is furious. A sane Customs law
orders that every parcel posted from abroad must
be opened in the presence of an official, otherwise
smuggling by post could not be stopped. Lately
someone from Scotland posted the old gentleman
some heather in bloom, and his feelings were out-
raged at the idea of a feckless beastie of a
Government clerk watching him open his parcel.
So he indignantly held the Commonwealth up to
scorn, and denounced Federation as a failure in
half a column to the papers, and wound up in this
rather mixed fashion :
The iniquitous laws that are attempted to be foisted on
to the shoulders of taxpayers of late years will bring' us
sooner or later into notice, disgust, and contempt in the
eyes of foreign nations, if it does not end in some serious
reprisals or worse calamities with other Powers, like what
happened when America became free and declared her in-
dependence.
Lor!
E. R. Abigail, who has a tremendous
police court practice in Sydney, caught a Tartar
on a recent appeal to the High Court in the
Murray Prior money-lending case. Justice
Walker, in the original hearing, found on all
counts against the crowd with which Abigail was
concerned, but with some extenuating circum-
stances re Abigail himself. The High Court
heard the appeal, and confirmed all the findings
of Justice Walker except one. And that one
was the extenuating circumstances relating to
E. R. Abigail.
The Parliamentary machine nearly broke
down in Vic. Assembly, the other night.
M.L.A. Watt had referred to the “ game ” of the
Labor party in opposing the Gambling Bill, and
was told to withdraw the offensive word. He
declined, and finally was “named by the Chair-
man, who then called on Premier Bent to “do
something. ’ But Bent said he didn’t consider
“ game ’ was offensive, and wouldn’t do anything.
At this stage, the awfulness of the situation
dawned upon Watt. He had been “named,” and
nothing was going to happen, and a hoary Parlia-
mentary institution, only to be mentioned with
awe, was in danger of staggering into the nearest
wastepaper-basket, or drain, or coal-scuttle.
Therefore Watt decided to “ do something” him-
self—much as a condemned criminal whom nobody
will hang might decide to save the majesty of the
law by voluntary suspension. So he apologised
all round; and the Parliamentary machine creaked
out a sigh of relief, and moved on.
In an incidental sort of way, some Lasca r
seamen gave White Australia an advertisement
on the Maori land coast, the other day. The
barque Lutterworth, plodding its way from
Lyttelton to Kaipara, was blown on a lee shore
and was in dire distress when the 5000-ton British-
India liner, Umballa, came in sight and stood by
all night. When morning came, the nigger-
manned vessel signalled that it could render no
assistance, and steamed away. Then came the
700-ton Union Co.’s Penguin, manned by white
Australians. It promptly launched a boat and
rescued the Lutterworth's men iu an off-hand
manner as if it were all in the day’s work.
Brisbane Worker reckons that it shows
“ a back-yard habit of mind ” for The Bulletin
to consider Australia always first. Well, it looks
to this paper more of a front-garden habit of
mind. It is the people who regard Australia —
the country they live in—as the tail-end of things
who have the back-gate and ash-barrel habit of
mind. They practically live in their own hen-
house.
“Jones,’’from New England (N.S.W.)
Had Edmund Longtail (or is it'Lonsdale?) here on the
/th and Bth. On the 7t.h he held forth at the Wesleyan
Bethel, and on the 3th at Eraser’s Hall. The entertain-
ment at the hall was about as lively as an opera composed
of equal parts of Smith’s “ Wealth of Nations,” and
Hervey’s “ Meditations Amongst the Tombs,” with a
screaming farce built on tjje lines of “ Hell open for
Christians.” The usual apli-Sosh, or, more strictly speak).
ing, antediluvian arguments were trotted out, and some of
Longtail’s supporters put up to ask supposedly antagonistic
questions, jvhich the astute Longtail easily answeredj
they having been made for the occasion. There were
probably thirty present, principally composed of the
pious, or bilious, push, and a mining potentate or two,
and their bitter halves. Thus did this eminent anti-
Australian work both worlds in his election campaign.
But, however, his funeral’s to-morrow.
The clause in N.S.W. Gaming Act, pro-
hibiting the publication of horse-odds, has brought
down trouble and calamity on the head of Attor-
ney General Wade. Immediately N.S.W. papers
stopped publishing the odds, Victorian papers
with the obnoxious news began to pour over the
border. Now Wade has delivered an ultimatum
to the Melbourne papers re the pains and penal-
ties to which the proprietors are liable if, through
their means, the accursed thing crawls on to his
pure and unblotted territory. But Wade’s writ
doesn’t run as far as Melbourne, though, no
doubt, if lie could capture David Syrne north of
the Murray, he might do things. And though ex-
traneous papers sent into N.S.W7 as railway
parcels may he within Wade’s jurisdiction, papers
sent in by post are not, which is another difficulty.
It looks as if Wade might yet he driven to Sun-
day drinking by the worry of the position, and
Sunday drinking is illegal unless Wade carries
home the beer on Saturday night.
The Melbourne Cup Meeting is again approach-
ing and promises to be one of the most magmificent
spectacles ever seen at Elemington. The prosperous
seasons have brought forward new owners, and all racing
business is booming. Entries will be very large. The
recent floods, as in the case of the Nile, have covered the
ground with fertilising matter that a rich sward may be
expected that will make the course look like a velvet
lawn. Preparations are being made for an immense
crowd.*
A Free Medical —ln this week’s issue will
he found the full-page advt. of the Freeman and Wallace
Staff of Specialists, who announce the giving away free of
postage the firm’s well-knnvn Medical work “Clinical
Experiences,” 750 pages of instructive medical matter 31
chapters on general diseases. 160 medical illustrations,
100 general articles upon medical matters, also 150 valu-
able recipes for home use, and a medical vocabulary of
1000 medical terms relevant to the hook. In addition
there are articles upon,burns and scalds, sunstroke* heat
apoplexy, restoring apparently drowned, insomnia
rupture, fits, gunshot wounds, snake bite, fevers, and
treatment, etc., etc. Inclusion of articles will prove
a valuable hook to country people residing far from
medical aid.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd., have received
the following cable from their London House, under
yesterday’s date:—-“The first series of wool sales have
been fixed to commence on 15th Jamiarv, 1907, limited to ;
180,000 bales new arrivals. The second series 12th
March, limit 150,000 bales : the third series, 30th April •
fourth series, 9th July : fifth seri s, 24th September "
sixth series, 20th November. The question of limit for
the last four series to be fixed later on.”*
CONTINENTAL TYRES
lima i
'fa Cz s
a
■j
\ v" ;
"1.,
K\'//
■ V 'v
VV 4
SK.
j'tc- --: V-.-W* Ssj
.
‘X.
sr:*
£3;
S; -j
: • -
:A
MM I
SfM
-m
wMmm3SM
raNBHSiy
11
<M§sSJI
Make the
■
Witii/Jk-
t:
mm
* IM 'r
ytd
No. 4 in Catalogue.
The Gibson Shirt
With Wide Tucks.
In White Lawn, 2/11.
In Printed Cambric, 2/11 & 3/6.
In Striped and Checked
Zephyr, 4/9.
In Cream Jap Silk, 6/11.
In Black or Colored Jap
Silk, 7/6.
In Checked Jap Silk, 12/6.
TIE EXTRA.
Country Customers
will please add
Postage when
Remitting.
New Illustrated
Catalogue is now
ready, and will
be postedon
application.
REUBEN BRANCH,
HYDE PARK CORNER,
oxford street,
GARMENT .SPECIALIST.
DIRECT FROM MAKER
... TO WEARER . . .
THESE MODELS ARE SELECTED FROM
THE FINEST FASHION CENTRES IN
THE WORLD.
ill
No. 5 in Catalogue.
Dressy Shirt Blouse
With Wide Tdcks and French Beading,
Trimmed Embroidery.
In India Linen or Fancy Muslins, 4/6.
In Cream Voile, 6/9.
In Cream Jap Silk, 9/6.
In Colored or Black Jap Silk, 10/6.
DEPARTMENTS.
Blouses
Skirts
Costumes
Dust Coats
Children’s
Frccks
Millinery
Underclothing
Corsets
Infants’ Goods
Dress Goods
Laces
Fancy
Department.
No. 16 in Catalogue.
An Entirely New Blouse
In Cream Jap Silk, 13/6.
In Colored or Black Jap Silk, 14/6.
■
■n
-
K
f PW
:
No. 17 in Catalogue.
Very Choice Blouse
'Jh*Cream .Tap Silk, 9/11.
In Colored or Black .Tap
Silk, 10/9.
In Check .Tap Silk, 13/9.
In Colored Louisirie, 15/9.
In Black Louisine, 1(5/9.
SIZES in STOCK
131, 14,
14i, 15.


“ The Chiel ” writes about the imported
official:—
Your par. re Major Disney (B. 20/9/’O6) recalls an inci-
dent in the career ot one of his staff. In 1884, Major
Ernest Frederick Rhodes, brother of Cecil Rhodes, of
S’Africa, was brought to Victoria as instructor in engi-
neering. He was good at his work when he did any—but
that was seldom. He preferred shooting, racing, or any
form of sport, and these important matters necessitated
his frequent absences from Melbourne—in fact, he was
half his time on leave. Early in his third year (he
was engaged for three years at £6OO per annum)
he applied fov four months’ more leave, ostensibly
to visit England on urgent private business. This
was granted, and he disappeared. About the
time when he was due back the Minister, poor
old “ Dismal Jimmy” Lorimer, received two cablegrams,
one from the Major and the other from big brother Cecil,
dated Capetown, and asking for another month’s leave.
It then began to dawn upon the Dismal one that these
leave applications were becoming a bit frequent, and
investigation revealed that Melbourne had hardly
seen Rhodes except on pay days. The Dismal and
incensed Jimmy was so angry, in a mild way, that he
stopped Rhodes’ pay for the extra month. But Rhodes
had just made a pile in diamonds in S’Africa, and didn’t
really care if Dismal James stopped the pay of the
Universe.
A Mag'nificent Panama
POST
FREE
15/6
Maybe you think you can’t buy a
Magnificent Panama for 15/G, but—
YOU come and look at these. If
you can’t come, just write for one,
enclosing the 15/6, and, if you are
not absolutely satisfied in every way,
please ask for your money back.
We bought these in South America,
where the Genuine Native Panamas
come from.
Y>-
W)
THE MURPOCN PANAMA
REAL PANAMA. Very Fine Piail
3in. to 4in. Brims. AH Sixes
If you don’t like it when you get it, send it hack and say, “Please return money.
MURDOCH'S in ParK st - SYDNEY
“ Where the Good Hats are.”
PRICE 10/6, Post Free Anywhere In the World.
A CLOSE SHAVE!
“ Once over, please, niv face
______ won’t stand being shaved
close—much as I would like it.” Said that pretty often to
your hairdresser, haven’t you ?
PLUM RAZORS
are so keen and sharp, and so well set that you can shave
yourself as close and often as you like without fear of a sore
and tender face. Plenty of good soap and hot water and a
PLUM RAZOR, and your shaving troubles are at an end.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6. Razoleo Lightning Sharpener,
Gd. Cake Universal Shaving Soap, Gd. Single Razor in
Leather Case, 10/G. Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-. Single
Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-. Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.,
SYDNEY.
THE FIRST SUBDIVISIONAL
SALE (3,000 acres) of ...
The Section includes 75 Choice
Dairy and Agricultural Farms
from 105 to 381 acres.
The Norman by Estate
( 20,000 acre s)
Faaslfern Railway, 46 miles from Brisbane, Queensland
SATURDAY, 17th November next.
Will take place at
HARRISVILLE
At 2 p.m. on ...
PARTICULAR ADVANTAGES
The Cressbrook Dairy Co.’s Milk Factory (1| miles
away) pays sd. per gallon for milk.
Rainfall —36G6 inches; average for 18 years.
Close to Market and Railway Station (1-mile).
Settlers can visit Brisbane and return same day.
No Survey Fees or residential conditions.
Very light clearing, good fencing material and
grand soil.
Nearly all Lucerne Land— Ridges and flats alike.
Liberal options, no floods, level roads. Splendidly
watered by Warrill and Warroolaba Creeks.
The Nornianby Estate is famous for its rich
pastures and largelucerne fattening paddocks
and has been used for many years past as a
“Topping” Run for fat stock travelling to
Brisbane markets.
TERMS:
Onc;-third Cash ; One-third in 3
years; One-third in 6 years,
at 5 per cent.
Plans and Particulars from
Isles, Love & Co.,
Auctioneers,
BRISBANE.
N.B.—Conveyance meets train every morning.
AND
HAKE
FUNsMONEY
Would you like to exert a strange and magic power over others ? Do you
desire to possess an accomplishment by which you can make both fun and
money? If so, you should become a Hypnotist. You can now master inis
wonderful, mysterious and fascinating science free of all cost at your own
home. By a few hours* study you can learn all about the secrets, methods,
uses and wonders of the hypnotic trance. You can surprise and mystify all
your friends by placing any one you wish under this weird and magic spell,
and compel them to see, think, feel, and act precisely as you wish. You
can sway the minds of others, perform the most wonderful and astounding-
feats, and create fun and amusement for hours at a time. You can do a
thousand amazing things that other people cannot do, and make yourself famous in a weeks time. If
you want to make money , you can do so by giving entertainments, curing disease, or teaching the art to
others. These are three sure and easy ways to win a fortune. Why he poor? Why work for others,
when you can master this money-making profession so easily ? Investigate now. It costs nothing to nna
out all about it. Professor Barraden, the world-renowned Hypnotist has issued a large and elegant
FREE BOOK, entitled, “A Key to the Mysteries of Hypnotism,” and anvbodv can get a copy ot it
merely for the asking. It is the most beautiful, interesting and valuable hook ever published, it
contains beautiful pictures and is a marvel of elegance and splendor. Best of all, this charming book tells
you just how to become a hypnotist. Every secret and mystery is here explained in the simp esc
language. You are also shown how you may heal the sick, relieve pain, cure had habits, give sleep to the
restless and comfort to the sorrowing. And for yourself, as this free Book shows, you can win promotion,
social and business standing, increase of trade, the influence, friendship or love you most desire, and, in.
short, all that is needed to make you rich, esteemed and happy as long as life lasts. This book also treats
fullv on Personal Magnetism, Magnetic Healing and kindered subjects, and how to cure yourseij of
any pain, ache or disease. In spite of its great value and precious contents, this hook is free to yon.
Simply write and it will be sent by next mail. Don’t send any money, but send your name ana
address TO-DAY.
Professor
!. H. BARRADEN, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MAKE YOUR OWN AERATED WATERS
At a Cost of Cess than
FOURPENCE PER. DOZEN
"WITH
U/>e AUSTRAL S'
AERATED WATER MACHINES.
Prices from £lB and upwards -
Write for Catalogues and Particulars to
ECKERSLEY (El SONS,
214 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
THE ACOORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Potary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £ 1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aocordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, etc., 2to Queen St., Brisbane
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments.
The Trade Supplied.
Incandsscent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle. Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUCCY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. PF~Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
A RECORD.
AULDANA WINES
In competition
against all. . .
Australia at. .
1904 CHAMPION CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP-SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
I
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH: ANGEL PLACE, PITT BT.
<< A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletins ” Office.
DEAFNESS can be Cured
WE don’t ask you to accept
our bare statement of
thisfact. We merely request
an opportunity of proving:
that the ACOUSTICON and
MASSACON instruments do
all that we claim for them as
an artificial aid to hearing',
and a cure for deafness. If we
fail to give you irrefutable
evidence of the cures these
scientific instruments have
effected, it will have cost you
nothing. If we prove that the
MASSACON & ACOUSTICON
are invaluable in eases of
deafness, you will be glad this
opportunity came to your
notice. Write for Booklet B.
Consultations and tests free.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS LTD.,
Equitable Buildings,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
KALODERMA-SOAP * KALOPERMA-JELLY * KA LOPE RM A-POWDER
•V *
KALODERWA F! WOLFF &SOHN
zhcb ;J(f S'-Hulzf.
Korlsruhi
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
OF all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
Sole Agents:
LOHMANN & CO.,
Melbourne (Q. Sydney.


In South Aus, the franchise for the Com-
monwealth Parliament and that for the State
Assembly are identical. Yet Commonwealth
and State still laboriously collect and issue separate
rolls.
A few years ago a man blew into the
presence of the then Minister for Lands in
Tasmania with a request for some concession,
which, being a perfectly reasonable one, was
granted off-hand. As the applicant blew out
again he remarked : “If you look on the mantel-
piece you will see something.” The Minister did
—a neat little pile of gold. As he wasn’t that
sort of Minister, a large, stolid policeman followed
the visitor and clapped him into the lock-up. In
this unromantic fashion, a common, Tasmanian
“slop” nipped in the bud a “great natural
industry.”
Bruce Smith, who is an excellent amateur
vocalist, proposes, it is alleged on decayed
authority, to brighten his electoral campaign with
baritone selections. Certainly B. Smith’s electoral
campaign requires brightening.
Of the N.S.W. Federal contingent (seven
members) to the Convention which sat in Sydney,
March, 1891, not one is now in political life.
Barton and M'Mdlan alone survive. Parkes,
•J. P. Abbott, Dibbs, W. H. Suttor, and Jennings
are all gone.
Among the inmates of Gla4esville
Asylum, is a onetime prominent bookie,
who went broke over Carbine’s Cup. He
still lays imaginary odds, and sometimes takes
fast running exercise as an imaginary welsher
doing an imaginary “ welsh.”
BOVRIL
is the Cook’s best friend.
An appetising and nutritious soup
is quickly made by the use of
Bovril and it renders Curries and
all made dishes palatable and
strengthening.
V 13
*
PATENT TWENCENT
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hour with Ordinary Kerosene* V?
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
EACH.
. ALSO .
Bracket & Hanging Lamps.
DOES your LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS ?
IF NOT, WRITE TO
WELSBACH LIGHT C?
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
230 FLINDERS LANE,, “^- BOURNE 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. PERRY BROS BRISBANE
HAROLD COLTON & CO., ADELAIDE. J. M. FERGUSON, LTD., PERTH wl’ ANE
The
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Biiakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
& KING ST » SYDNEY
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON Sm TIUWORVUTnm' Telephone 2138.
h" n We t 0 be . WOrn 0,1 a " occasions. TOUPKTS,raiNGES^IIM^nET
‘ ‘ «T Iwr^PifSJwpr n, “ de up/
Personal^At tendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can he used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
E/ectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
miTiiTiiT!
WeeK
Given
Away
Free
“I'll Try It.
fl BIG MOUSTACHE PROPOSITION.
Would you like a big Moustache ? Then grow one by using
CAPILLARINE
The Australian . . .
Moustache Producer.
It covers “ downy ” lips with a beautiful coating: of strong-,
wavy, thick hair —and wastes no time about it either.
We will post a OAR of CAPILLARINE to any address n _i
(in Plain Paper Packet) for the sum of *US DQi
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Result.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works :
Birmingham, England
These; series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. Tfrey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Food Authority
A Famous English Physician (who requests
that his name be withheld from publication)
says of
Grape-Nuts
“In cases of slow digestion, lacK of stomach
tone, and debility, this food is invaluable«”
NOW FOR THE REASON:
The great bulk of human food is starch in some form—bread, pastry, potatoes,
rice, cereals (such as oats), wheat, rye, barley, etc.
This class of food supplies “ energy ” if it be properly digested, but there’s
the rub. Starch and sugar in food are digested by the liver and intestines. When
these organs are overworked or become weak, then the food is not entirely digested
and lies in the warm moisture of the stomach until it decays, producing gas, and
therefore disturbance and incipient disease of the liver and intestines and frequently
appendicitis.
To meet this trouble Grape-Nuts food was invented. In it, the starch part of
wheat and barley is transformed by long soaking, warmth, and time, into sugar-
just the same method as the body employs in digestion. Hence when one eats
Grape-Nuts, he eats a pre-digested food, ready for immediate digestion and
assimilation, supplying the body witn the need food elements in a soluble and
delicious form.
THE LONDON “LANCET” SAYS :
“ The features worthy of note in our analysis are the excellent proportion of proteid, mineral
matters, and soluble carbohydrates percent. The mineral matter was rich in phosphoric acid.
‘ drape-Nuts ’is described as a brain and nerve food, whatever that may mean. Our analysis, at
any rate, shows that it is a nutritive of a high order, since it contains the constituents of a
complete food in very satisfactory and rich proportion and in an easily assimilable state.”
The food is naturally pre-digested by heat, moisture and time. The diastase
is thus produced and the transformation of starch into sugar accomplished.
A perfect food for persons with weak intestinal digestion and who need, but
cannot fully digest ordinary bread and starchy food.
For athletes, brain-workers, or the weakest babe.
(For infants, pour hot water over three or four teaspoonfuls of the food. Use that water with a trifle of the
food dissolved in it.)
“THERE’S A REASON”
Dr. Fed Himself
Found The Food That Saved His
Life.
A good old family physician with a life time
experience in saving people finally, found himself
sick unto death.
Medicines failed and but let him tell his
own story. “ For the first time in my life of 61
years I am impelled to publicly testify to the
value of a largely ad vertised article, and I certainly
would not pen these lines except that, what seems
to me a direct act of Providence, saved my life
and I am impressed that it is a bounded duty to
make it known.
“ For three years I kept failing with stomach
and liver disorders until I was reduced 70 lbs.
from my normal weight. When I got too low to
treat myself, three of my associate physicians
advised me to ‘put my house in order’ for I
would be quickly going the way of all mankind.
Just about that time I was put on a diet of
Grape-Nuts predigested food. Curiously enough
it quickly began to build me up, appetite returned
and in 15 days 1 gained 6 lbs. That started my
return to : health and really saved my life.
■‘A physician is naturally prejudiced against
writing such a letter but in this case I am willing
to declare it from the housetops that the multi-
plied thousands who are now suffering as I did can
find relief and health as easily and promptly by
Grape-Nuts. If they only knew what to do.
Sincerely and Fraternally yours.” Name of this
prominent physician furnished by Postum Co.,
Battle Creek, Mich.
Look in pkgs. for a copy of the famous little
book, “ The Road to Wellville.”
AT YOUR BIDDING.
TRAUH ’■nr MABI<
<Sj>vtOYU,
AT your bidding the EDISON PHONOGRAPH will
tell the funniest stories, sing the latest songs,
or play the finest operatic selections.
24 NEW RECORDS Are
Issued Every
There’s a complete and varied programme in every
list and our Record Catalogue Lists.
THOUSANDS OF OTHERS.
If you have no Phonograph, you should
learn the entertaining qualities of Edison
Gold-Moulded Records. We will send you
on application our booklet, “Home Enter-
tainments with the Edison _ Phonograph,” our
new list of Gbld-Moulded Records and a letter
oMntroductipn to our nearest dealer entitling
you to hear any ot our thousands of Records
FREE. now, before you forget it.
National Phonograph Company of Australia, Ltd
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Leads for a
and
Wholesome
Pure
Drink*
KEEP THE NAME
BEFORE YOU
FRANZ JOSEF.


THIS MENS
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia.
FOR
7(6
7(6
X
/ %
r ’-
s*l
hJ
TrUIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
1 couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
To Let
The newly erected premises known as
ADAMS* BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting- of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high.
GROUND FLOOR
Three divisions, 57 x2Bft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 59ft. 6in. x 29ft.
FIRST FLOOR-
Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft.,
61 x 28ft. ,
SECOND FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 36ft., 170 x 28ft.
THIRD FLOOR-
Two divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturing purposes, or for cool storage.
A Very Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars oil application to
H. NICKOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
\VHLL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6 ; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
M Britisb=flustralasian
1 BROAD BTREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing: Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
Business, Robbery, etc.
In the name of the Profit, Pigs ! A recent
shipment of N.S.W. pork realised 6£d. per lb. in London.
A large bacon-curer in Ireland reported on a trial ship-
ment very hopefully. “ If,” he wrote, “you can produce
pigs of the kind sent, there is a fortune in the business,
because there is no fat on them. There are no pigs raised
here of such a class —with so much lean for the weight.
The samples will easily beat the best Canadian.’’ And
pork stands freezing better than either beef or mutton.
* * • •
The Queensland pineapple canning industry is,
thanks to the Federal tariff, becoming established on a
firm footing. Prior to Federation, Australia, annually
imported, chiefly from Singapore where the growing and
canning of the fruit are carried on by cheap coolie labor,
40,000 cases each containing 2 dozen 21b. tins. Now, the
Singapore article is practically unknown in Australia.
Last season Queensland’s seven canning establishments,
employing 800 white hands, turned out nearly 60,000 21b.
tins.
* * * *
“Oliver” (from Westralia): Just hiked out to
the latest alluvial rush at Black Range. On Wednesday
we heard a rumor. On Thursday the rush began. On
Sunday over 300 men were on the spot. On Monday seven
sly grog shanties were dotted among the claims —all kept
by ladies, to wit, Kangaroo Kate, Mulga Queen, Straight
Dinkuni, Alice-Where-Art-Thou, Mignon, Highland Mary,
ana Big Kitty. This, is fact. There was a whisper
“ Police.” Mignon bolted to a miner’s tent with a case of
“ Scotch ”to mind till, the troopers left. Went back an
hour later and found ten drunk prospectors and a litter of
dead marines. Then Mignon flew off the handle.
* # * *
“Snag”: Re “painting” opal (8., 13/9/’O6).
The trick consists of covering cracksor flaws in the stones
with a mixture of white lead, “ adhesive,” and the earth
with which the gems in the rough state are coated,
except where chipped. Opal is sold “on the blind,” and
the buyer is not allowed to chip the opal to test it unless
by consent of the seller. The composition obscures the
defects in the opal, while the lead increases its weight—
which means a good deal with stuff worth from Is. to £7O
or £BO per oz. Opal-gougers “chip up” their opal before
selling, and occasionally a stone “chips” well on one
side and shows inferior stuff on the other. The composi-
tion is used to cover up the poor side. The game is
alleged to be worked by buyers with defective stones to
get rid of; they utilise this method of unloading on their
rivals.
• • • •
Mr. Edward Jamtzski, of Pymble, Sydney, has
invented a meat-preserving process, which, if only half as
good as it claims to be, should mean tons of money to its
exploiters. It is “ a universal process for the preservation
of animal products,” and it will, it is claimed, abolish the
freezing chamber and cold storage as we know them now.
To freeze meat costs £3 to £3 10s. per ton ; under the
Janitzki process, it is asserted, meat treated at a cost of
from Bs. to 10s. per ton will be fresh and sweet, with all
its flavor preserved, at the end of 70 days. The cost of an
ordinary freezing plant to do certain work maybe up. to
£20,000 ; the Janitzski plant to do the same work will, it is
claimed, only cost £5OOO. The process is simplicity itself.
The carcases are put into a hermetically-sealed chamber,
which is then charged with oxygen gas up to a certain
pressure, the meat remaining under treatment for from
six to eight hours, according to hulk, after which it
may be taken out and shipped as bulk cargo. “We have
kept meat so treated 104 and 110 days. We sent some
meat to Maoriland on July 20 last. On Sept. 5 it was
examined and found to be all we claimed for it. It was
put into a box, and nailed down, ar.d sent on board the
steamer as ordinary cargo,” saj those associated with the
inventor. The rights of the process for Maoriland and
Argentina have already been disposed of. The promoters
see a vision of boundless wealth in the application of the
process to the rabbit trade, as a portable plant to treat
rabbits could be made for £7O, and once bunny is treated
he is done with and can be shipped as ordinary cargo.
• * • •
The average woman should be prohibited by
Act of Parliament from carrying a watch. When she has
one, the first thing she does is to have a cunning little
pocket made for it in some part of her dress where she
can never find it without the assistance of a bloodhound.
Then she forgets all about it till she is going to bed, and
as she jerks off her attire it flies out and brings up with a
shock against the opposite wall. She picks it up and
shakes it violently to set it going again, and then she
puts it under her pillow and forgets all about it in the
morning, so that the chances are it gets into the wash
and turns up soaked. It is recovered and hung out
to dry, and she proceeds to wind it, only if it is
an old-fashioned watch she has a fiendish capacity for
putting the key in the wrong hole, and when she has
turned the hands back about eight hours she puts the
thing in her pocket quite contentedly. After that she
never looks at it till the day after to-morrow, and is quite
surprised to notice that it is stopped. Then she shoves
the key in the other hole and tries to wind it backwards,
and next she finds out her mistake and winds it forwards
at a furious rate, till it brings up with a crash. She
carries it for a week after that without looking at it once,
till one day she suddenly puts her faith in it v'hen she
wants to catch a train, and is left. Then she leaves it
hanging up in her other dress in the wardrobe for two
months, and some time or other when she is out it dawns
upon her, all at once, that she hasn’t got it in her pocket,
whereupon she puts an advertisement in the paper
stating that the person who took it had better return it
at once, as he is known. As he doesn’t return it, she
forgets all about it till next year, when she is taking the
old dress to pieces and it falls heavily upon the floor,
when she picks it up hurriedly, puts the hands back six
hours and a half, winds it backwards and forwards, and
finally takes it back to the watchmaker, and wants him
to change it because it won’t go. And if he doesn’t
change it, she tells all her friends that that watchmaker
isn’t any good.
THE DREAM OF McHAGGIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McHaggis was a person wise ;
An import merchant who
Embraced his opportunities,
As most importers do.
A champion he of foreign trade,
Like others of his school,
Who thought Australia only made
For growing wheat and wool.
The harvesters which he’d import
At thirty pounds apiece
Were of the new elastic sort
Whose values soon increase !
For, when he got them safe ashore,
Surprising as it sounds,
He’d lose by selling them, he swore,
At less than sixty pounds !
McHaggis had a dream one night,
A very horrid dream,
And one that filled his soul with fright
And made him long to scream.
He dreamt a statesman ruled the land,
A man of graver kind,
A statesman of high courage and
Napoleonic mind.
That statesman asked the Parliament
To say Mac, at the most,
Must sell his goods at ten per cent.
Above the import cost;
Or else the goods in question would
At once be confiscate,
And that the cute McHaggis should
Deal fairly with the State !
McHaggis woke ! The jarring chord
He could not straight perceive ;
And then he murmured : “ Praise the Lord,
1 still have power to thieve !"
Oh, gentle reader, do not scoff
At this wild theme I’ve found,
For there are any number of
McHaggises around 1
N.S.W.
W. T. G OODGE.
m
*
t*'
r.»
•••*
M «
Children’s ailments nearly always arise from a
derangement of the stomach and bowels. A
gentle laxative is needed ; not a troublesome
purgative. California Syrup of Figs, 11 Nature’s
pleasant laxative,” gently and comfortingly
relieves and cleanses the system and strengthens
the organs acted upon. It is so agreeable in
flavour and natural in action that a child accepts
it eagerly. It is an ideal household remedy,
as truly beneficial to adults as to children.
“ NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.*’
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
MULGRAVE CENTRAL MILL CO., LTD.,
CAIRNS, QUEENSLAND.
WANTED— RELIABLE CANE CUTTERS, FOR CUTTING CANE, UP TO THE
END OF DECEMBER.
The following table will show the average weekly earnings of 13 gangs now working for the
above company for 7 weeks.
The above makes no allowance for lost time by individual members of gangs, but is an average,
based on the assumption that the whole gang of ten worked full time. If only the actual number of
days worked was considered, the individual earnings would be proportionately greater.
S. W. DAVIDS, General Manager.
9NOS s>NlNs>nn 3< “
.
JSUOIE^
m,
mMM
NOTE.
Owing to the Federal Government imposing
an extra 10 per cent, duty on Phonographs,
the prices of machines are increased to that
extent, making Gems, £2 155.; Standards,
£5 10s.; Homes, £8 ss. Should the Par-
liament not pass the Bill the extra 10 per
cent, will be returned in full to our customers.
Records are not advanced in price at present.
IS heard to the best advantage on the Edison
Phonograph. It will make you laugh
“till you’re tired,” and you’ll want to hear
it next day.
The greatest singers and the most famous brass
bands are to be obtained on Edison Records—
no such talent can be heard on any other make
of record.
TaKe NO imitations—g'o
straight for EDISON &
Phonographs &. Records
THE EDISON GEM PHONOGRAPH,
COMPLETE FOR £2 lOs.
THE EDISON STANDARD PHONOGRAPH,
COMPLETE FOR £5.
THE EDISON HOME PHONOGRAPH,
COMPLETE FOR £7 10s.
RECORDS— Is, Is 3d, 1s 6d, & 1s 9d each.
Lists of New Records and Catalogues FREE.
OSBORN &JERDAN, Ltd.
"MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonograph and Records,
393 George Street, SYDNEY
Facing ROYAL HOTEL,
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limits
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE FOR N.S.W.
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 00 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as resu It of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent low
Disablement : (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £ 6 per week for Temporary Total Disablemen..
(6) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £0 per week for incapacitation '
■naniiiaii Hic oo =.. o For full particulars and conditions i;all or t mte for Prospectus, V. H. BASTEK. Kes. -*«• .


Russian Premier Stolypin proposes to find
23,000,000 acres of land in European Russia on
which the peasants may farm, and be their own
laudlor Is. In the Altai highlands in Siberia an-
other 53,000,000 acres are to be sold to emigrants at
a merely nominal price. All this with a view of
winning the small agriculturists over from the
revolutionaries. Stolypin knows a lot more than
our Gibb and Bruce Smith. Their idea for
making the agricultural classes peaceful and
friendly is to prevent them getting little farms—
to keep the big estates together and tell the
would-be settler to be happy and damned.
“Wang” pens a complaint from a cheap
suburb:—
What queer ideas some people have of decorating their
homes ! I lately found myself in a cottage in a towzled
suburb, having been deputed by a grasping landlord to
inquire into the demands of an irate tenant re leaky
roofs, &c. The cottage was a dismal-looking place with
two cypress trees growing in the front. I was shown into
the front room by a small, sour-visaged girl with her hair
in curl-papers, and was requested to wait a few minutes
while mother finished washing the dishes, or the twins. M y
eyes roved round the apartment. On the mantelpiece,
occupying the place of honor, was a tiny artificial human
skeleton under a glass cover. In front of the fireplace
was a paper Chinese screen, on which two fearsome-look-
ing creatures, supposed to be dragons, glared at each
other. Above the mantelpiece was a large picture in a
gilt frame. I found it to be a colored supplement from
an English illustrated magazine. It was called “ The
Old Squire.” On trestles rested a coffin. At
one end of the dead-box sat an old lady in a
lace cap, who, at first, I took to be Queen Victoria ;
and standing all around the coffin were a number of
hobbledehoyswearing the vacant expressions and smock
frocks of England. I couldn’t see the old squire. I
suppose he was in the coffin. From gazing at this
cheerful subject I cast my eyes on one of the walls, to be
met with the portrait of a funeral. On the opposite wall
was a set of memorial verses in a gilt frame. In one
corner lurked a severe-looking harmonium. Presently
mother came in. She was a tall, dark, solemn-looking
party. She escorted me through the house. Her bed-
room was decorated with illuminated texts—“ God bless
our home,” and such-like. In the kitchen I was con-
fronted with a portrait of a grave with a big tombstone
on it. It was also furnished with two infants, a small,
coid fire, a large cold cat, and a very naked cockatoo,
which urged me to “ scratch cocky’s comb.” As I left
the sour-visaged little girl smote the harmonium with an
arm of bone, and opened her curl-papered head, and sang
“ Hp from the grave he rose.”
‘ ‘ Roma ” gives some Machiavellian advice
to school teachers in Victoria re “Nature
Study” :
A word of advice to teachers who wish to be good pals
with the Inspector, and to have it recorded against their
names, that they have caught the spirit of the pro-
gramme.
Be sure your tadpoles, frogs, yabbies, bulhvinkles, and
mosquitoes are happy.
Under no circumstances allow them to sleep during the
Inspector’s visit. If the reptiles seem at all drowsy shake
them up on the quiet. Keep them plunging.
Lastly, have the kids so trained that Billy Jones will
request permission to leave the room during the In-
spectors visit, and will return brimming over with
excitement, and with a crippled bull-ant or "leech. Hold
an inquest on the reptile. Be sure you discovergenuine
cause of death. Next classified roll you will find yourself
a link higher on the chain that leads to glory in the Vic-
torian Education Department.
“U.”: As one who takes a steady in-
terest in Cervantes’ battered hero, I rise to object
to a Melbourne paper calling hollow-sounding
and mysterious Judkins “the new Don Quixote.”
The admirable Spaniard did not vend a snips
magazine as a chief feature of his reform cam-
paign. No, Judkins is not Quixotic, and, thank
Heaven, there was nothing Juddy about good old
Quixote.
The world is familiar with the story of the
gift by Rhodes to Rudyard Kipling of the Wool-
pack, a cottage on the Groote Schuur Estate,
Capetown. It now transpires that the Rhodes
trustees are not so certain about the gift as Kip-
ling is. Kipling and Rhodes were the only parties
present, and Rhodes was an absent-minded
beggar. He forgot to transfer the property by
deed, and the land now stands in the name of the
trustees, and Kipling is without any title beyond
his voluble assertion. Kipling is crying bitterly
for the property, and Rhodes’ trustees don’t cast
any doubt on his statements, or anything like that,
but they don’t see their way to part with anything
on the Jingo poet’s bare word. If Kipling won’t
let go, the world may yet see a bard hanging on
to the doorpost with both hands, while the
trustees try to drag him off by the feet. Then
Kipling’s opinion of Rhodes will slump.
Bent promises another attempt in Victoria
to secure land for the small settler. He will ask
the owners of 1,000,000 acres in the Western
District to sell, and if they refuse, will submit
resolutions to both Houses of Parliament, com-
pelling* a sale. Put it is a roundabout sort of way
to do, in an unsatisfactory, partial fashion, what a
graduated land-tax would do quickly, effectively
and completely, *
ifYouWantTheßest
Ask for a
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrutob & Co. on each Bottle.
ms
in
(^raphophones
Make Happy Homes.
GENUINE
COLUMBIA
MAKE
Price, 15/- Complete.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH Co.
GEN’L.,
25 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
..THE..
PELMAN-FOSTER
MEMORY COURSE
converts a treacherous memory into a reliable one.
Gives the mind control and mental poise. An easv
Simple, and scientific method of training-. Original
and of absorbing interest. Requires but a few minutes
each day and richly repays the time invested. No
matter what your life-work, the PELM AN-FOSTER
System will make you more successful.
SLIPS of MEMORY
Often mean the Sacrifice of Success.
Happiness—and Even Life itself.
Knowledge is power ; but, without a good memory
how much time and energy must be expended to
obtain even a limited amount; then, if we cannot
recall facts when needed, to what practical use can
we put the knowledge we possess? Master your
MIND, COMPEL IT TO RESPOND INSTANTLY, ACCURATELY
AND CLEARLY.
.. Our new booklet, “Memory, and How to Improve
if> will be sent to you, Post Free, on application to
The Secretary, The Pelman School of Memory
Training-, y
Box 402 G.P.0., Melbourne.
London: 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.O.
Paris: 109 Avenue De Neuilly.
South Africa: 42 Lynn Buildings, Durban.
America : 901 Whitehall Building, New York
Germany : Prannerstr, 13 Munich.
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
Telephone
3227.
Learn to SwSm j*
BY ONE
TRIAL.
Price, 1/6 &J2/6. Great Sport in the Water.
A person weighing from 50 to 2501 b. can float on them
without an effort. Inquire of anyone who has used
Ayvad s VI ater-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first day you are in the water. For those who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal. Easily adjusted. Take no more room than a
pocket handkerchief. Sold through all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &c. Australian
agents, A. Moreau & 00., 82a Pit,t-st., Svdney, N.S.YV.
Sole manufacturers, Ayvad Manuf’g. Co.,'Hoboken, N..J.
InOte— Educational Dept., London County Council, classi-
fied Water-Wings with books, &c., as necessary school
supply.
Missing- Friends.
JOHN DEMPSTER MILLER, Ship’s
Steward, last heard of in 1886, in Brisbane.
Communicate with JOSEPH ELLERY,
IRVINEBANK, N. QUEENSLAND.
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 60 en-
gravings, new 1900 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
oe Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Poe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNkigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and THE Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
Nature asit" Tf GHNIGAIj TEIIM >S, and shows up Human
Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
whdch they feeU deh^ Ur • ° th ® n 'i n . ds of youn B‘ and oM?but about
are devoted n?°.nsultl. nsultIn 8' their physician. Chapters
riao-e which makes“enable interesting subjects concerning mar-
S bothl U ? pe , nor?uide t 0 the of men and
anticipates a * Ufc of “arnage. No man or woman who
hide's tsense earwdWd ? r ®j. a nd wishes to enjoy married life in its
in its covers’ Thf^ d o°n^ nSe wlth the information embraced
ANY address for"sMnshllungs'and 1 ' t 0
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c„ with full directions
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How TO Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
?s F »r^T^ TOR : E ™ llv Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Cabinl{ 'J' m '\eeus Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
Sc™ V Y T, Ah T i? AIN I If °. is. Elements of Social
&c ence 3s Cd. On Our New Selection, 6s (id.
is 93 C ° AIPLAINBS > Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Hannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
„ Powi!l!S 0P Superb Manhood, ss.
i cf i , OCCA « ;,0 > Heptameron, and many
NVr n r l a o r® 6d ,f- ach > losted - Bride of the First
i i. G w- !’vr sd ‘ Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Litii in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my pr.ces with others and
save your cash, pp- Established 20 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Sta<-e Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid!
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy is.
Iractical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage’, 8d
feECRET History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams i s
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Prkemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, Sd
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances
2S. INGERSOLL S WORKS, Sd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s Cd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post Iree. G. W
06 t> RT op London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
ls 3d ‘ Nervousness and
Irs Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, ls 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Cd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-’
plete) Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Pa°n c
Posted, ls 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
J"Jje Xarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirably
preparation.”
Zhs British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
t AGED.
Benofr s fooD is sold in Tins
by ChrmHr, &c. every wl ere.


VICTORIA
Collins
- WEST
ins & Swanston S'* Melbourne^ 1
ST. AUSTRALIA /jfl
L
Hay St Perm
QUEENSLAND
Queen & Edward Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
M 63-143 Queen St.
18-3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 8-233 H ighS*,
Princes & DowlingS* DunediirjtS?3
AH Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
/fits
from
Stewar
Dawsons
ITS
good.
Write the l!
store nee rest
you.
?co
S6e STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of ** glaring' misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
No. GC752— Pearl Set
Oct. Gold and Enamel
Pendant, 30s.
No. 11221— 9 ct. Gold
Locket., 30s.
No. G 9445 —15efc. Gold
Nautical Brooch, £2.
No. GG7s4—Pearl Set
Gold and Enamel
Pendant, 30s.
m
No. H222—Gent’s Oct.
Gold Locket, 30s.
No. Go7s!)—Oct. Gold,
Pearl and Enamel
Pendant, 2?s. Od.
No. 05787—15 ct. Gold
and Diamond Locket,
£6 10s.
No. G 9451 —15ot Gold Nautical Brooch,
£1 12s. 0(1.
No. G9977—Pearl Set Music Brooch,
225. 6d.
No. G9394—Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold
Spray Brooch, £3 10s.
No. G9S7l—
Silver
having- Brush,
10s. 6d.
Gold-Mounted Amber Cigarette Holders, in Case,
11s. Cd. and 12s. Od. ; Cigar Holders, 11s. (id.,
13s. 6d., 14s. (id., 225. Gd.
No. G 9870—
Solid Silver
Shaving Brush,
14s. 6d.
No. G9976—Pearl, Ruby and Sapphire
Set 9ct. Gold Brooch, 17s. 6d.
No. G 9721 —9cfc. Gold Music Brooch,
15s. 6d.
No. G 8256 —Pearl and Amethyst Bangle, 9ct. Gold,
£2 15s.
No. G 9393 —Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold
Spray Brooch, £3 3s.
No. G 8492 —Carved Green-
stone and Dot. Gold
No. G4725.—0ct. Hall-
Marked Gold Medal,
17s 6d.
Silver-Plated Sugar and Cream Frame,
China Dishes, 12s Gd.
No. G944B—Fine Pearl Set and 15ct. Gold
Brooch, £4.
FIDDLE
OLD ENGLISH.
A 1 Quality Silver-Plate on Nickel.
Either Pattern Spoons and Forks, Table Size, 355. per dozen,
ii » ~ ~ ~ Dessert Size, 255. per dozen.
~ „ Tea Spoons, 15s per dozen.
No. G9443—Finely Designed Golf Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £2 15s.
No. G9444—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Golf
Brooch, £3.
No. llC7—Gent’s Best Quality Travelling- Case, 2Sa
with Extra Itazor, 30s.
tat
No. Hls9—Lady’s Pearl Handle and Best Sheffield Steel Pen Knife, 3s
Men’s Medium Size ditto, 6s Gd.
So. E7l6B—Cut Glass and Silver-Plated
Butter Dish, 14s 6d.
No. G2222—China and Silver
Plated Tea Pot Stand, 14s Gd.
GlOS—“ Love’s Awakening ” Silver-Mounted
Comb, 10s Od.
: m
Solid Silver Soap Dish and Shading Brush,
in Case, 30s.
No. G 4525 —9ct. Gold Knife Charm.
3s.
No. GBB44—Silver-plated Bamboo
Gong, 21s.
No. E 7469 —The Wicker Sugar, with
Sifter, Silver-Plated, 14s 6d.
No. G6SGo—Out Glass and Silver-Plated Full
Size Butter Dish, 18s Cd.
No. G9450—15ct. Gold “ Nautical ’’ Brooch,
£2 ss.
No. G7C77—Case of Two Solid Silver Butter
Knives, 27s 6d ; Jam Spoons or Jam and
Butter, if preferred, 27s Gd.
aH
No. F 773 Knife Rests, 8s 6d pair -
No. G42B2—Silver-Plated and Fancy Cream Glass
Butter Dish, 11s Gd.


At latest advices old Bob Fitzsimmons was
racing up and down Yankeeland, vainly looking for
someone on whom to exercise his art. He is quite pre-
pared to take on O’Brien again, or Berger, who came so
near to laying O’Brien out, or anyone else who fancies
himself. So far, no one has responded, and the freckled
freak is still on his farm in New Jersey with an undamaged
countenance.
* * * *
The N.Y. Police Gazette is not at all friendly
to O’Brien over the way he slipped up manager John
\V ren, of Melbourne. According to the Gazette, it is not
Haekensohmidt that O’Brien is to meet. The little affair
with Berger, at Philadelphia, shook O’Brien’s confidence
in himself badly, and, when inquiries were made, Squires
appeared to be a very tough proposition. In the mean-
time, manager Jimmy Lowes, of Newcastle, England
came over to the States, and offered O’B. better terms to
go to England and fight three soft marks. Then O’B. sent
his wire, and covered his dishonorable breach of agree-
ment by slandering Australia.
* * * .
Some time ago, a Bulletin reader inquired if
John L. Sullivan was ever champion heavy-weight of the
world. The same question has cropped up in the U.S.A.,
and the New York Police Gazette, which reckons it
knows something, declares that Jonel was not cham-
pion He never won an international battle. He never
fought Jem Smith, champion of England ; he refused to
meet Peter Jackson, of Australi i, and he also refused to
meet I rank Slavin. Against Charles Mitchell, in France
he could do no better than make a draw. All of which
seems fairly conclusive.
Just now there is a slump in bruisin" in
Sydney. The National Sporting Club is closed for
alterations and improvements which will, when finished,
make it the finest boxing hall in Australasia. In the
meantime the followers of bruise are understood to
spend their spare time over at North Sydney, watching
cock-fighting. °
* * * *
Stipendiary Pa Smithers decided, at Sydney
Central Police Court, that the men charged with cock-
fighting at North Sydney were not guilty. It seems it
was cock-boxing, not fighting, the birds being fitted with
boxing gloves, or pads, on their spurs, which had been
cut off square to fit the gloves. The point was that, as
there were no steel spurs used, and even the natural
spurs of the birds were rendered harmless by means of the
pads, it was not fighting, and was devoid of cruelty. Oock-
boxmg is not likely to draw large crowds. Cockfighters
like to see Wood, if all that is written about them is true.
There are in existence some Js.P. who have
humanity and horse-sense. At Fielding (M.L.), two of
them— I Trewin and Burne—heard a case brought by the
S.P.O.A. against O. Tucker, of Wanganui, for ill-treating
a pigeon by shooting it at a recent pigeon match. The
case was regarded by both sides as a test one, and the
bird-butcher was defended by a lawyer who started out to
aigue that shooting cramped birds from traps was not
cruelty. In between, he fired what he believed to be |
sarcasm at the Society which laid the charge. Then he
went back to argue that the pigeons really enjoyed the '
fun. He did not offer to demonstrate that it was an
enjoyable experience by letting anyone shoot him under
the coat-tail. After careful consideration the bench
blew aside the heavily-funny lawyer and came down on
G. tucker, of Wanganui, with aline of £5 Is., and £l 18s.
costs, on the ground that the infliction of pain was un-
necessary, and the object for which it was inflicted
unreasonable. It is said that an appeal will be made, but
if Tucker, of Wanganui, has any regard for his reputation
be will let the matter go. It isn’t nice for a respectable
man to pose as a champion of the right to mutilate birds.
feeems that the weights of the Harvard and
Cambridge crews must have totted up pretty equally
w,ien they brought off their match on the Thames last
month. But, whereas the Englishmen “dressed” their
boat on the old system, with lighter stuff at either end
and the bulkiest bits of beef in the middle the
Yanks were a fairly even-weighted lot, bar one big fellow
who stroked on the bow side. The comparison is inter-
esting. On August 28th these were the weights
Cambridge. Harvard.
st. lbs. st. lbs.
Bow .. 11 4 Bow .. 12 8
No. 2 .. 12 1£ No. 2 .. 12 0
„ 3 .. 12 3J 3 .. 12 1
.. i •• 13 10 „ 4 .. 12 6
»> 5 .. 14 0 „ 5 .. 12 7
» 6 .. 12 6 „ 6 .. 12 94
.. ,7 •• 12 10J „ 7 .. 13 4
Stroke .. 11 5 Stroke .. 12 0
The Cambridge pair in the centre were nearly three
stone heavier than the corresponding men in the other
boat, whilst the gross weight of their bow and stroke
was list, lighter. Seeing that Cambridge won the race
all the way, it is up to the Yanks to show cause and
reason for their unsuccessful plan of loading. They made
an attractive show in their practice spins. One of the
Thames professional scullers summed them up favorably
“ They are extremely neat, one of the prettiest crews I
have seen. They slide longer than Cambridge but
scarcely get the full benefit of their slide, as they ‘ knife’
their blades into the water. If they chopped in more
like Cambridge, they would get a better hold of the
water at the beginning, and make more use of their lev
drive.” But this throws no light on the question of
weight-distribution, which is seemingly as important now
as it was in the old days of fixed seats. (By the way the
heaviest of the Harvard men who went to England’ was
G. G. Glass, who stood 6ft. 4in., and weighed "l 3 8 He
was unable to row.)
• * * *
A fine sporting incident blows from Arias
(Argentina). There were races on Independence Dav
and Mario Oliva was one of the riders. Mario had heart
disease, and died in the saddle half-way through the
race. But he had been a splendid horseman while alive
and he kept in the saddle when lie was dead till his horse
had passed the familiar winning post ahead of all com-
petitors, and then it stopped by instinct. If the horse
nad continued running indefinitely Mario Oliva might
have sat in the saddle till he decomposed, but when the
animal stopped it also turned to look at its deceased
rider, and that dislodged him. Therefore, Mario Oliva
fell off. No one can say he didn’t die in harness
•** * ■
They combine sport and business in a most
artful manner in Amurka. A small town called Goldfield
in the State of Nevada, decided that it would advertise
the richness of its mines by giving a record purse fora
fight between two champions. The record “ban ” U p to
then was $40,000, for which Bob Fitzsimmons and James
Hall fought at New Orleans. So Goldfield said it would
make it $45,000. However, it failed to make good •
830,000 was the most it could raise, and the town con-
templated suicide. Then it learned that New Orleans
“went dog” and never paid Fitzsimmons his share
of the purse, so it proudly announced that it would
give its £6OOO and pay it as an honorable placer
town should. The fight was to be to a finish if
t lasted all d y. Joe Cans, a colored fighter and li<’ht-
weight champion, met Battling Nelson for the purse
After 42 vicious rounds had been contested, Nelson hit
Hans in the groin ; down went the coon howling with
pain (or business acumen) and the referee gave him the
fight and £6OOO on a foul. The affair showed a profit of
the same amount, which, it is said, will be used to pro-
mote more record purse fights. n the meantime the
eye of the U.S.A. is turned on Goldfield, Nevada, and its
mines are beimr talked about—which is what Goldfield
Nevada, wanted. ’
* * * *
Among strange Victorian customs is that of
having football clubs “ connected ” with churches. They
mostly play in little tinpot competitions, but still they
think a good deal of '-hemselves. When the pious teams
travel, they sing hymns and say grace before meals
But, with all this, tile sinful taint of human nature has
not altogether fled. In Brunswick a church football
association met recently to discuss a protest made by the
Christian Kickers against some similar association of
pursuers nf the blown leather. Proceedings were merely
wordy at first, but in time members of the association
outside, hearing rumors that the decision was likelv to go
against the side they barracked for, began to cast large
quantities of stones and mud through the window’s
Then a Son of Piety smote an Independent Daniel on the
nose, and a Child of Grace planted his foot on the chest
of a Follower of the Saints, and with that there started a
willing scrum and schism, which lasted till the hall-
keeper, to save what was left of the furniture, came alone
and turned the lights out. The Meek and Mild doctrine
( fails badly when it comes to a disputed goal in football
Little Girl’s Obstinate Case of
Eczema Instantaneous Relief
By Cuticura— Little Boy’s Hands
and Arms Also Were a Mass
of Torturing Sores Grateful
Mother Says;
"CUTICURA REMEDIES
A HOUSEHOLD STANDBY”
“In reply to your letter I write you
my experience, and you are privileged
to use it as you see fit. Last year,
after having my little girl treated by a
very prominent physician for an obsti-
nate case of eczema, I resorted to the
Cuticura Remedies, and was so well
pleased with the almost instantaneous
relief afforded that we discarded the
physician’s prescription and relied en-
tirely on the Cuticura Soap, Cuticura
Ointment, and Cuticura Pills. When
we commenced with the Cuticura Rem-
edies her feet and limbs were covered
with running sores. In about six weeks
we had her completely well, and there
has been no recurrence of the trouble.
“In July of this year a little boy in
our family poisoned his hands and arms
with poison oak, and in twenty-four
hours his hands and arms were a mass
of torturing sores. We used only the
Cuticura Remedies, washing his hands
and arms with the Cuticura Soap, and
anointed them with the Cuticura Oint-
ment, and then gave him the Cuticura
Resolvent. In about three weeks his
hands and arms healed up; so we have
lots of cause for feeling grateful for the
Cuticura Remedies. We find that the
Cuticura Remedies are a valuable
household standby, living as we do
twelve miles from a doctor, and where
it costs from twenty to twenty-five dol-
lars to come up on the mountain.
Respectfully, Mrs. Lizzie Vincent
Thomas, Fairmount, Walden’s Ridge,
Tenn., Oct. 13, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R.Towns* Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for everj
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate'Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug Sc Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
BQpMailed Free, “The Great Skin Book.’*
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W#
The officifi] investigations into the reported increase
of the percentage of the Deaf, are well described in
the “ Eakoscopk Review.” It also explains fully the
wonderful construction of t.he inner ear, the dangers
and causes of Deafness and Head-noises, and how
they can be cured at your own home, without
niedicine nor electricity. Write or call for same ;it
is absolutely FREE. 2A
The “ EARGBCOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Up-to-date Cilice Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
STEMS for Correspond-
ence.
STEMS for Ledtrers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
f °r Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
for all Records.
* for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-agencirs :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M. P. Building-, Perth
Of course you have Svstem
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
I UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE” j
silling Typewriter, j
JOHN SARDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
SOUS MTRAI.IAK AGENT WABASH SYSTEMS.
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat ot %
burning sun, and to remove the
effects of perspiration.
CALVERT'S
Prickly.heat Soap
js specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
Pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
RODS
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 stamps.
Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Edw. NORTON.
95,000 “THE WAYBACK SERIES.
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
MOTHER
SYRUP
Indigestion means
torturing pain, intense
weariness, wretched days
and wakeful nights. It
means starved blood,
starved muscles, a starved
body and a starved brain ;
in short, it means shattered
health and a broken con-
stitution unless you root
it out without delay.
Mother Seigcl’s Syrup has
no rival as a remedy for
indigestion. Its reputation
is based on thirty-five
years’ success in curing
Indigestion, Biliousness,
and all disorders of the
stomach,liver and kidneys
GIVES
STRENGTH
TO THE
WEAK,
ENERGY
TO THE
LANGUID,
COMFORT
TO THE
DYSPEPTIC,
AND
“For five years I suffer-
ed from Indigestion, which
weakened my whole system.
I could not eat f.r pain,
and I endured agonies
from heaciaehealmostdaily.
1 here was a strange numb-
ness in my left side, and
my eyesight became sodim
that I thought I was going
blind. Noth ng relieved
me, and I had almost lost
hope; but MotherSeigel’s
S> rup cured me complete-
ly-” From Mrs. Jessie
Newman, 62, Gore Street,
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Vic-
toria. April 13, 1906.
GOOD DIGESTION
TAKE ITI Though
everything else has failed.
TO ALL
TAKE ITI
It WILL Cure You.
ACETYLENE..
THE Headquarters of the Acetylene Business in New South Wales
will in future be situated at . . .
314 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
EXTENSIVE SHOWROOMS have now been completed, and the Public
are cordially invited to call and inspect all the latest improvements in
Acetylene Lighting.
WILLIAM TYREE
Sole Manufacturer of
Tyree “ Perfection ” Generators;
Tyree “ECONOMIC” Generators; Tyree “PERFECTION” Acetylene
Table Lamps ; Tyree “ SOLIO ” Optical Lantern Generator ; Tyree Motor
Launch Generators ; Tyree Motor Car Generators ; Tyree Miners’ Lamps ;
lyree Lamp-post Generators; Tyree Bicycle Lamps; Tyree Carriage
Lamps; lyree Contractors’ Lamps. Patented throughout the world.
Used by all the Government Departments, Sydney Harbor Trust,
Commonwealth of Australia, New Zealand Government. Installations
in every Town and District in New South Wales.
THE LATEST NOVELTY :
&he TYREE Patent AUTOMATIC SPRAY.
PRICE, from &2 lOs. EACH.
No pump required. No syringe required. You simply put in the mixture,
or the paint, and the machine does the rest. YOU CAN PAINT YOUR
HOUSE AND FENCES, DISINFECT THE PREMISES, OR SPRAY
YOUR GARDEN AND ORCHARD WITHOUT WORK, AT ONE
HALF IHE COST. Everyone should see this invention at the
SHOWROOMS:
314 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM at Lowest Rates. Send for Printed Matter.
We are ontheßPOT
withCrYSTAIATE BILLIARD BALLS
V/A
Only
Subsiifuit
for •
Ivory
w ALCOC/f & CfjtyM
iSS
JEUZABETHST
MEIsB. .
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms —
-422 GEORGE STREET
9 s
b “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher. «
Lancet writes “Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, a far more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
Montserrat is obtained solely from the celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONTSERRAT.”
OF ALL. STORES AND CHEMISTS.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams
CONSULTATIONS.
Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
NEW ZEALAND CUP, Riccarton, Christchurch, N.Z., November 3
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
MELBOURNE CUP, „ „ November 6
MELBOURNE CUP Special, Drawn Morning of Race, Flemington, Vic., NOV. 6
SANDHURST CUP, Bendigo, Victoria, November 21
100,000 at 512 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
£>S» Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARC
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
I" Booking Fee,
i 3d.
* per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON, 0 Bridge Sts., Sydney
Disinfecting
Fluid.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
. Of all Chemist! and Storekeepers
The “SANITAS” Co., A
Ltd., Llmehouse,
■■ London.
COLORLESS,
FRAGRANT,
NGN-POISONOUS.
II-
Pint Bottles.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS,, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs'’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. ___
BEIWA.RB OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling some-
what better, 1 cot up and tried to transact my business
as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine-—-Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure —from Victoria, which had
cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second bottle,
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the
pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,
I was able to attend to my duties as usual. —Yours faith-
fully', J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis
cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we
saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned. —Yours
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/o Mr. Harvey, Baker,
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWEfcVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Cop-
manhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured one man that had a distressing cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment. —Yours thankfully, WILLIAM CANHAM,
Upper Oopmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have taken (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydale Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, andnow recommend it to my friends. Wishing you
every success.—l am yours truly, J. ERSKINE,
Kilbirnie, New' Zealand.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE OASES CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything, and had advice, hut
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night out of m.v chair. If I went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to m3’ memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by 3’our valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue to highly recommend it for both old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours truly,
HERBEET E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently say it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it, —Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing; to a cold. I
bad a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a" splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well.—
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT-
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth. —I am yours truly,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Barge Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch sefcj- No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


Lookin’ Out
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’M a sailor-man, and I’m lookin’ out
For something over the sea
(It might be a whale or a waterspout).
I’m a sort of foragin’ advance scout,
Turnin’ around and walkin’ about
When the officer’s watchin’ me.
One of these nights I s’pose I’ll see
Something to recompense—
Some sword-fish havin’ a sewin’-bee,
Fillin’ themselves with cake and tea ;
Or a bull-whale full of prosperity
Buildin’ a boundary fence.
I’m lookin’ into a wall of night
With nothin’ to see but dark—
O’ course I’m searchin’ for breakers white,
And watchin’ to see that they steer her right,
With the oil run low in the starboard light
And the port light cold and stark.
I’ve been workin’ a winch for the whole dam day,
And there’s nothin’ to see out there ;
I’ve been lookin’ for years, and all I say
Is, “Don’t you worry your life away
Watchin’ for things that only may
Appear on the midnight air.”
Every time when they strike the bell
I turn to the bridge and shout
“ Lights are burnin’, and all is well”—
There are stars in heaven and flames in hell,
And it seems a deliberate lie to tell
When I know the port light’s out.
I m a sailor man who is swivel-eyed
And I'm blind as a bat by day,
I couldn t see in the dark if I tried,
But the sea ain’t quite so deep as it’s wide,
And there’s many whose lives would be simplified.
If she dropped where the mud-crabs play.
But I’ll get her there with her bottom whole,
And toss you into the street
To take a cab for the Metropole,
Or some other pub with a rigmarole—
And if I don’t, God rest your soul,
And may your dreams be sweet.
-‘Four bells ! and lights a-burnin’ bright”
(The port light’s cold and stark),
On the starboard bow there’s a steamer light,
And there s nothin’ to see besides but Night;
All’s well—we’re guessin’ our way all right—
Gropin’ our way in the dark.
Jtf AOKILANO.
WILL LAWSON.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
THE AMOROUS BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE lads who came to the bag factory in
the course of a few years were many and
various. They represented pretty well all
possible variants of the human boy, and quaint
and curious types were numerous. The quaintest
of all was Claude Alva Arthur Johns—miscalled
Snivel—the Amorous Boy.
Claude was not yet 15, and was plainly a spoilt
•child. This was his first job. He came upstairs
on his first morning, clinging to the hand of his
papa, timorous and tearful. Johns, senior, was a
type of the highly respectable mechanic, the per-
fect model of all those splendid drawings of the
workman that adorned the Band of
Hope, and other pious, non-alcoholic publications
familiar in our youth. He had the same sur-
prising and shining cleanliness, the same benig-
nant, ox-like eye, the same trim, hyacinthine
side-whiskers, the same luxuriant hair deftly
•combed into a “ cockie,” and was obviously
possessed of all those gentle virtues that endear
-the teetotal, church-going English mechanic to
the editors of moral publications for the very
.young. Claude was a smaller edition of his ex-
cellent parent—spotless, deftly combed, highly
polished as to face and boots, and extremely pro-
ficient in “manners.” He took off his hat on
entering the factory ; he called the packer “Sir,”
•and plaintively begged Harrerbeller Harte’s
pardon for merely being alive. Master Johns’
large, turned-down collar gave him an infantile
appearance, which was accentuated by his shy blue
eye and childish diffidence.
Billy the Boy, who had followed in that spirit
of earnest investigation so characteristic of him,
surveyed Claude with a disgust that implied an
abandonment of all hope in the future of the
.human race.
“ Now yiv got it,” he said to the packer. “Iv
at ain’t ther king stinker boy, pickle me.”
“ Wha’s that?” asked Mills.
“G’out! Er stinker boy’s er bub et school
what won’t fight nothin’, smooges t’ ther teachers,
narks everythin’, ’n’s clean an’ pretty alwiz. You
know—it’s granny’s ickle sweetie—earlv t’ bed, ’n’
early t’ rise, ’n’ gets sops fer breckfist every day.”
Having commended Claude to the care of the
foreman, with much solicitude, the elder Johns
•departed, leaving his son leaning over the balusters
•of the parcel-well by the stairs, tremulous and
•desolate. When his father passed from sight,
Claude's apprehension quite overcame him. He
•cried, “Dadder! dadder!” in despair, and then
blubbered miserably. The ruffianly voung prin-
ter’s devil was struck speechless at the sight. He
Master Johns, he examined him
■closely, and then, diving a knuckle into each eye,
he roared in an excess of grotesque woe. Claude
raised his voice. Billy the Boy raised his. Billy’s
.anguish was something awful. Master Johns was
touched at this generous sympathy. He ceased
•crying himself and looked tenderly at the devil.
“ Dud-don’t kuck-cry, little boy,” he said.
That finished Billy. He hadn’t believed such
.-simplicity could exist. He gaped dumbly for a
moment, and then fell back in a simulated fit, and
the packer took him up by the ear and solemnly
slid him down stairs.
“ Yiv got somethin’ t’ dry-nurse now, Feathers,”
cried Billy from the first landing. “Eucky yer
fond iv kids. Stick it in er corner with er crust
t’ suck, ’n’ it’ll be good.”
Harrerbeller Harte, whose camel-like ungainli-
ness and blatant humor masked a sensitive soul,
took Claude under her wing, fashioned a hessian
apron for him, and, having divested him of his
coat and his impossible collar, decked him for
labor, and handed him over to the packer.
“ What’s yer name ? ” said Mills.
“ Please, sir, Claude Alva Arthur ”
“Time flies,” interjected the packer. “ S’pose
we make it Snivel ? It’s more like yer.”
Mills instructed Master Johns in the art of
making up 141 b. parcels, and the youth shaped
better than might have been expected. In the
course of a few days he was more at home in the
factory than many hardened boys had succeeded
in being in as many weeks. Feminine company
was congenial to Claude. He revelled in it. On
the second day he kissed Harrerbeller, and that
was more than a grown man would have done in
seven years. He was already very partial to the
ex-professional fat girl too, and had smooged about
prim Miss Magill’s board a good deal. Claude’s
way with the women was distressingly ingenuous,
and he had none of a hoy’s natural shame about
cuddling or being cuddled. He offered caresses
in company without compunction, and received
them unabashed. To Billy the Boy he was a
source of unending amazement, and an object of
unmitigated loathing. To vindicate the honor of
his class the Boy felt called upon to boot Claude
every time he found him guilty of conduct unbe-
coming a grown lad.
“(let t’ yer game,” he snorted disgustedly,
coming upon Claude dangling about a paster of
30, with an arm round her waist, and he punted
him skilfully. “Want people t’ think y’ ain’t
weaned ? Look ’ere, you’ll cop sock-o every time
I get onter yer playin’ handies, ’r doin’ duckie
with our hemployees. Take that t’ go on with.
It’ll make a man iv yer ! ” He punted Claude
again, and then had to double smartly, and dive
for the next flat to evade retribution from
Feathers.
Claude wept. Claude always did weep. An
unkind word would drive Claude to an excess of
tears, and make him bleat like a motherless calf.
The packer had no patience with his new assist-
ant’s deplorable weaknesses, but was not willing
to share with Billy the authority he himself had
usurped from the timid foreman. In fact, Claude’s
snivelling was a new and poignant horror in the
professional career of Mills. Where another boy
would take a curse and a cuff uncomplainingly,
counting it all in the day’s work, Snivel, if sternly
rebuked, would relapse into a condition of tearful
misery, and cry copiously for 20 minutes or so.
When he had grown accustomed to the place, a
tirade of doleful complaint went with the long
blubbering.
“ Come outer that, ’n’ dig in,” said Feathers,
finding Claude philandering with the machinists
when there was a rush on. “We ain’t hirin’ yer
t’ play house, you blighted gooey.”
Claude came, his face wreathed into an expres-
sion of deep-seated spiritual anguish, and tears
flowing down his cheeks.
“ There you go,” he blubbered ; “ there you go,
getting on to me again. You’re always getting
on to me. Everybody gets on to me. I wish I
was dead ! ”
“Jimmy Gee! that would be er himprove-
ment,” said the packer. “I’ll squeeze half er
dollar fer ther undertaker’s exes.”
“Dicken, there, Feathers,” chimed in Benno ;
“let ther kid be. It’s his teeth worryin’ him.
His mother sez he ain’t t’ be teased.”
“That’s right,” wailed Claude, “insult my
mother now ; go on, insult my dear mother. If I
was a man I would kill you, but you know I am
only a boy, and you do everything you can to
make me unhappy.” Snivel boo-hooed, and his
tears splashed on the bags he was handling.
Billy the Boy went to him, murmuring the
soothing prattle usually addressed to fretful
babies, arranged his apron with a few motherly
touches, and then tenderly wiped his nose with a
bunch of cotton waste that left blobs of ink on
Claude’s pink cheeks. Master Johns put up a
pitiful cry. Benno laughed derisively, and
Feathers plaintively requested the world at large
to “ give it milk fer ther love iv Heaving.”
There was a yell of protest from the girls.
Harrerbeller Harte dashed at Billy with her
brush, and the devil jumped for the lift chain,
and slid into the depths. Harrerbeller cleaned
Claude’s face with the softer parts of her very
pasty skirt, subjecting Feathers and Benno to
contemptuous criticism the while.
‘.‘Lor’ bli,”she said, “yorter be shot, er pair
iv buck larrikins slingin’ off at er bit iv er kid.”
“Terust him not, gentle lydie,” sang Feathers.
“Bit iv er kid,” he said—“that? ’Struth, he’s
a bloated Brigham Young, ’n’ he ain’ troo t’ yow,
Harrerbeller. He loves some others. What erbout
yow, Beller, wastin’ yer wealth iv affection on ’er
goody goody two-shoes when y’orter be standin’
up agin er sixteen stun p’leeceman ? ”
Miss Harte almost blushed. “What’s torkin’ ?”
she said, contemptuously, retiring to ber table.
Nothing surprised Feathers so much as the
attitude of the elder Beauties towards Claude
Alva Arthur Johns. The younger girls treated
him with the derision he deserved ; the youngest
—hoydens of about Claude’s own age—quarrelled
with him continually, and slaps were frequently
exchanged; but the elder girls and the old ones
mothered him quite affectionately. When Snivel
let them out by the basement door at night, after
overtime, he kissed them all.
“Strike me cock-eyed iv ther old dorkin’s ain’t
stricken with it,” said Mills to the town traveller.
“ It’s a taste iv the’ unexpected. They waited
for him cornin’ ’n’ he never come at all, ’n’ now
this is er sort iv Consolation Stakes. Et first ’twas
had out in th’ open, but now it’s goin’ inter hidin’
behind ther bales ’n’ stacks, ’n’ takin’ on ther
character ’n’ complexion iv ’n established smooge,
with er touch iv ther dear old Auntie Aggie
business thrown in fer ther sake iv decorum. Ez
fer Snivel, he’s purfectly satisfied. He’s er whale
fer motherly love. He’d rather lean his bonny
curls up agin er gentle breast than carry bricks.”
It was true that the demonstrations of affection
for Claude, at first quite careless, had become
somewhat covert, but the Beauties were respon-
sible for this. They had grown sensitive to the
gibes of the packer, and, although they might
accept Claude’s caresses in comparative seclusion,
they were impelled to restrain his innocent im-
petuosity in the eye of the factory. No barrack-
ing could alter Snivel’s affectionate little ways,
but it often awoke tearful remonstrance.
“ Well, I’m blessed ! ” he would cry with doleful
self-pity. “ It’s enough to break a fellow’s heart,
abusing him just because he’s got a loving dispo-
sition. You’re cruel wretches, and I hate you ! ”
Then Claude would weep many tears, grumbling
at his work about the packer’s wickedness and want
of brotherly love. “You’re always making my poor
dear mamma cry with the way you treat me ! ” he
blurted one afternoon, following the disclosure
with a howl so poignant that Fuzzy came tumbling
down the flat, thinking the boy had sustained a
mortal injury.
The printer's devil remained the sorest trial
Snivel was called upon to endure. Billy found an
infernal joy in pursuing him. Claude had to
have a bodyguard of pasters going home in the
evening and coming in in the morning; and Billy
the Boy ferreted him out amongst the stacks at
lunch-time, and, finding him in affectionate
juxtaposition with the fat girl, or Harrerbeller
or Miss Magill, or some other, mounted a bale
and pointed out the error of his ways in language
of remarkable fluency.
“I wish I’d had the bringin’ of yer up,” said
Billy the Boy.
Claude had a favorite in the factory. It was
Miss Lucy Tooth, machinist. She was a thin,
decorous woman of 27, with superior airs and
eyebrows permanently elevated. She called
Snivel “a sweet boy,” and “a perfect little
gentleman,” and coddled him a good deal. Then
came the announcement of the machinist’s
approaching marriage. It was not broken to
Claude gently ; the awful truth was flashed upon
him, and it brought on one of his worst bursts.
“ I here, I knew you didn't love me ! You just
pretended to love me, and you loved somebody
else all the time.” He was crying wretchedly.
“ I don’t care, I won t stand it,” he bleated.
“Nobody loves me. I’ll kill myself! I’ll kill
myself ! ”
Claude rushed to the recess by the lift where
stood the taps and the paste-boiler, and presently
sounds of a mild commotion issued from that
quarter. Benno made a somewhat anxious move.
“ Snivel’s gorn to kill hisself,” said Feathers ;
don’t disturb him.”
But there followed screams and cries of terror,
and the packer was constrained to approach the
disturbed centre in a leisurely way. He found
Master Johns with his head burrowed down in a
bin of flour, and three or four folders standing
round in helpless consternation. Claude was
pulled out, and spread on the floor in an uncon-
scious condition, and he could not breathe till
about a pint of flour had been dug out of his wide-
open mouth.
“’Twas er cold-blooded case iv attempted
suercide while in er state iv unsound mind,” said
I eathers, and _ there was more of gravity and
thoughtfulness in his attitude towards Snivel after
that.
When Miss Tooth had gone Snivel was more
than usually lachrymose for a week, and then he
permitted Kitty Coudray to console him.
“ Coudray’s makin’ er little love with his gills
now,” Feathers informed Goudy, who was
interested in the development of Snivel. “She
doesn’t know it’s loaded, but Sonny’s a mummer’s
boy what’ll make scandals afore lie’s hanged, take
it frim me. He’s got too much emotion fer his
size in knickers.”
Feathers was a true prophet. Within a fort-
night a bloke came to visit Kitty. The whisper
went round that this was her “regular,” and
Claude heard it, and began to fret. He was not
so demonstrative in his grief as usual, however.
But it happened that when Kitty’s bloke passed
down stairs, Claude was standing at the drop with
three 281 b. parcels of brown bags in the rope,
balanced on the handrail. With practice, it was
easy to swing a load like this on the rope and
pulley into any flat. Claude let this lot down
with a rush, swung it badly, and it took Kitty
Coudray’s regular boy in the small of the back,
wiped him off the stairs, kicked him head over
tip into the well, and then the whole 841bs.
struck him in the wind as he lay on the asphalt
floor of the basement, with a broken collar-bone
and minor injuries.
The packer did not pause to investigate. He
took Claude Alva Arthur Johns by the scruff, and
kicked him all the way to the changing room, and
there gave him a paternal doing. Later, Mills
said to the foreman :
“Ain’t you thinkin’ it’s time you made rep-
resentations below erbout this sweet child of
ours ? Don’t it strike you he ain’t no fit com-
panion for me ’n’ you ’n’ innocence ’n’ beauty
generally ? ”
“He’s a very nice lad, only a little un-
fortunate,” faltered Ellis.
“Oh, he’s a peach bloom, he is, but it’s up t’
you t’ be tired of him, afore he bites holes in ther
wall. Tryin’t’ drown hisself in ther flour bar’l
was er bit hookity, but nothin’ ter homycide.
Look ’ere, you think droppin’ them goods on ther
lad just now was haccidental. Yer wrong. I
was watching his nibs, ’n’ it was dam, deliberite
manslaughter. Claudie’s too passionite for er
shop like tins ; better recommend his ole pot’n’
pan t’ put him in er ice mill.”
So it happened that Claude Johns was passed
out, but Feathers is waiting for him to turn up in
a striking evening-paper sensation.
Edward Dyson.
Gunnedah (N.S.W.) ’Tiser, in a recent
issue, warns local voters against voting for Labor
candidates, lest in the near future the Labor
member should evolve into the violent Anarchist,
and “ plunge this fair land into a vortex of blood-
shed.'’ Same issue contains the weekly instal-
ment of a convict yarn, reeking with murder.
Thus the survivor, sole repository of the bodies
and secrets of his late comrades: “We boiled
some of Bodenham, and camped at a spring near
by.” The Tory press is a humorous dog.
STH
Jo a JPM3
Cathartic Pills never have and
never will cure indigestion and
stomach troubles —Why? Because
they act entirely on the bowels,
whereas the whole trouble is really
the stomach. When the stomach is
diseased, all the other organs suffer.
That is why fatal diseases of the
heart, liver, kidneys and lungs are
so often the direct result of indiges-
tion. The use of
DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES
gives the stomach perfect rest,
because they contain all the natural
idigestants as found in a healthy
stomach. This is a common-sense
method of treating all stomach
troubles, and the results are always
certain.
Hrioe, ZIQ%. Guaranteed.
.9
For instance • ° f Whl ° h hunlanity endures . with more or less patience, are unnecessary ills.
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Ancemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
are readily curable. One and all arise from the failure of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
t° efficiently perform their functions. These important organs, when acting healthily, deal with and
r emove from the system the poisonous matter which causes the disorders.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid to-
gether with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
this solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful ill-
ness will result.
The Liver.— ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood con-
verts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood, gradually
as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is
completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are
useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion Biliousnec*
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders. ’ “ ’
~ health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected, and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Diver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that is was necessary to find a curative agent which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
Wor k dealing with the body s waste material, and, after many disappointments, the medicine
which possessed the required action m the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’s Safe
CnreS 3,11 liver < :lnd , by restoring their activity, these
vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of the urinary and biliary
poisons, the presence ?f which m the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
fc b ,T’ ® a °ka«he, Sciatica, Blood Disorders Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick
Headache, Gravel Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these
disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by
W arner s Safe Cure are permanent cures. j-j 3


A Gippsland Girl’s "Wail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SEPTEMBER! Spring! Wattle-blossom!
Mud and cows!
It is about 5 a.m. when mother wakes me.
After a yawn and a stretch I get up. It is nearly
dark, but a cocky young lady’s early-morning
toilet (in the Cow Country) is a simple, mechanical
affair, carried out just as effectively without a
light. Then I feel my way to the “front room,”
where I left my boots to dry over-night. In
doing so I knock against every chair in the house
(there are three). I try the Christian Science
cure on my chilblains while slipping on my boots
(ladies’ stockyard boots), then stump my way to
the kitchen —a detached humpy. It isn t raining
just now, but the shingle-roof is still dripping,
and a misty lead-grey sky awns over a landscape
of unrelieved grey-green greyness.
Dave is buttoning his coat at the gate, and
whistling for the dog to get the cows.
In the kitchen mother has the lamp lit and a
great fire blazing. Igo to the fire and start lacing
my boots. The water-rotted lace breaks, and is
replaced by a piece of packing-twine abducted
from a flour sack.
Breakfast is ready by the time Dad is up and
Dave back with the cows. You hear the cows
coming a long way off—not their bellowing, but
the steady “ squish-squash ” of their hoofs drawn
out of and sinking again into the mud. Coming
up the race, there is just enough corduroy to keep
them from getting bogged, and the old dog runs
along the log fence barking them into the yard.
Breakfast is not a cheerful meal, and does not
take long to dispose of. Then we go to start
milking.
Mother stays to get the children off to school
(there are five younger than Dave, including a
three-months-old baby). The school is a draughty,
unlined building of the galvanised-iron-roofed
variety, and has the tiniest of iron fireplaces at
one end. The children reach it by means of two
miles of wet grass paddocks and half a mile of
narrow muddy path through dripping scrub.
The stockyard is the usual spar and dog-leg
enclosure, and has the usual spasmodic attacks of
corduroy in places. It is on a slope, so some of
the slush drains off; this prevents the mud sub-
merging the whole affair.. Built against the giant
log that forms one side of the yard are four
crazily-roofed bails. There are twenty-three cows
altogether. One is a newly-calved heifer, which
Dad is breaking in on his own plans and specifica-
tion. She is a wild, miserable, dairy-fed animal,
which he got in payment for some work he did
for Brown. As we come up she retreats back-
wards to the fence, her eyes staring, her little
sharp horns down. Dad stations us, armed with
sticks, in besieging positions, and goes along out-
side the fence to attack her with the roping
tackle—a rope looped round a long pole. After
much manoeuvring he does succeed in getting the
loop over her horns. The heifer makes a wild
rush forward, and we all proceed to pull her into
the bail. The heifer sees her mistake, plants her
feet firmly, and refuses to budge. There is a
muddy, uninteresting battle that lasts ten minutes.
When we get her in you wouldn’t know whether
she was a cow or a bog, for she is caked with
slush through lying down and being hauled along by
main force, and there is a tuft of vegetation on
one horn, and a lump of earth the size of a vulture
caked on her tail. She will probably give about
two pints at her best.
We milk the rest. Milking is a wearying game.
The cows are all poor, all wet and dirty, and most
of them have sore teats from the mud. We wash
their udders, but every time the cow lacks, dirt
or hair falls into the bucket. If you're milking
fairly fast, it gets covered up with froth. Any-
how, it all comes out in the straining (if uhe bottom
of the strainer doesn’t give way, as sometimes
happens). Occasionally, the cow gets her tail
loose, and, with a dexterous swing, brings it
across your face or winds it round your neck like
a boa (I never had a boa to wear, but I suppose
even a oocky’s daughter has a right to her own
imagination). , , .
Dave bails up. The water oozes from his
bluchers as he lets the last cow out, and it lets fly
a kick that gets home on his shin. A jackass,
perched on the fence, breaks into a peal of
inane laughter. Dave attempts to annihilate the
mocking fowl with a stool. He might have hurt
the stool, but not the jackass. They don t col ide.
So Dave relieves his feelings with a comprehen-
sive curse which, I suppose, does as well.
We carry in the milk. The notorious Gnpps-
land roads make the home-separator a necessity
here Ours is still being bought on the instal-
ment plan, and our dairy is a freak of architecture
in slab and bark. Altogether, we hope the dairy-
inspector will continue his absence.
The next work is to carry the milk out again
to feed calves and pigs. To break a young calf in
to drink is a tortuous operation. You get the
calf to suck your finger, then try to gently lead it
to the bucket of milk. It always declines to
come, and it always chews your finger more or
less. All the calisthenics I know have been
learned through high kicking at calves with my
big, damp boots in moments of sudden pain.
That finished, there is for me the separator to
wash and a pleasant little round of housework.
Dave goes to look after his private enterprise of
wallaby trapping, and Dad to the “cultivation he
has already spent months clearing. It is a little
flat or table-land rather) of chocolate soil covered
with heavy dead timber. All round the great
ironbarlc-and-blue-gum-clothed hills frown mock-
ingly down on the attempts of puny man to
grapple with Nature in one of her grimmest
aspects. And well they may, for what can the
most strenuous efforts of these solitary selectors
avail against such stubborn elements ? Attacked
by men who have capital, labor, time and intelli-
gence at their disposal, the forest may vanish.
But the struggle of the cocky, who must make his
way as he goes, who must battle alone, whose only
capital is his health and courage, whose “farm”
has a mortgage on it almost before it is freehold,
is heart breaking.
Nor is the heavy timber all. Everywhere is
evidence of a war waged against the over-exuber-
ance of the fertile soil—the thistles, the bracken
and scrub that spring and spring again, despite
cutting and burning time upon time. Fresh
fronds sprout from burnt tree-ferns, new shoots
spring up round charred butts and stumps every-
where. ,
But in summer ! Beneath a clear, blue sky,
flower-spangled paddocks, the logs hidden in
grass, green hills and running creeks, a back-
ground of virgin forest shades, and, still further
off, the taller blue peaks! It is then that
folks from the parched and dust-blown north
see Gippsland as a garden, and sacrifice much
to secure a home here. Then the settler who
has waded through many a winter’s mud and,
perhaps, been beaten in the end by bush fires,
eagerly sells out and rashes to the northern wheat-
fields or sheep-farms. And so the play goes on.
Distant fields are greenest, and I know 1 would
give much for a change from this ever-wet, ouii,
grey-green life, with its changeless routine of
work and rain and slush and muddy calf.
Five o’clock ! Nearly cow-time again.
F.C.
The Reverend William Walter
Wail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Reverend William Walter Wail was
earnest and sincere ;
On sundry evils which prevail hi 3 views
were most severe.
He gave the statesmen fine advice, and urged
them to repent,
And make the land a Paradise by Pious Govern-
ment.
You never caught him turning tail,
The Reverend William Walter Wail!
The Reverend Will had set his heart to preach,
on Christmas morn,
A sermon such as might impart much hope to all
forlorn.
I do not mean that hope of love with which the
clergy glow—
That hope of gaining joys above through miseries
here below —
Such shadowy things could ne’er avail
The Reverend William Walter Wail!
He longed to speak of better days, when evil
should be gone,
And show the folk in divers ways the light of
Hope still shone.
Australia must be in the van of progress; not
behind !
A more enthusiastic man it would be hard to find !
The clock struck twelve, when fell the veil
Of sleep on William Walter Wail !
It was the Spirit of the Past moved softly in the
room
And murmured: “Why so overcast? What
means this air of gloom ?”
The parson started, broad awake! “I long to
preach,” said he,
“A sermon, for the people’s sake, of better days to
be.
Such sermons now do much prevail,”
Remarked the Reverend William Wail.
The Spirit smiled ; the parson preached ; and thus
again began :
“The final goal that must be reached is brother-
hood of man;
Who talks of soldiers and of forts and gunboats
for defence?
Throw open all Australian ports! Let better
days commence!
Protection is a scheme that’s mad ;
And any tariff’s just as bad !
“Abolish drink ! Tobacco, too ! What man would
drink or smoke ?
Some poor, degraded creature who is groaning
’neath the yoke !
Would this not be a happy land, I pray you pause
to think,
If we had no tobacco and we did away with
drink?”
The Spirit all in silence heard,
He smiled, but never said a word !
“ And then the racing ! What a curse it is to this
fair 'and !
And every year ’tis growing worse from what I
understand !
If racing ceased on all the grounds, and every
horse were dead,
Australia would, by leaps and bounds, commence
to forge ahead !
All punters should be sent to jail,”
Sard Reverend William Walter Wail.
“Then look at Woman’s wanton waste ! Oh, how
can I express
My horror of her wretched taste and spendthrift
recklessness !
The worst, most wicked waste of man, I m willing
to confess,
For rank and lavish folly can be matched by
woman’s dress.
A happy era time will touch
When ladies do not dress so much ! ”
Then said the Spirit of the Past: “My friend,
there was a land,
There was a time, when things were cast precisely
as you’ve planned.
No drinks, no bets, no ships, no guns, no horses,
no cigars,
No motor cars with record runs, no wicked private
bars !
And ladies’ bills for dress were small;
They cost scarce anything at all ! ”
“’Tis false ! ” the angry preacher cried, “ it could
not happen so ! ’’
“’Tis true!” the Spirit voice replied. The
preacher thundered “ No ! ”
“ But yes ! ’’.observed the Spirit, “ and, the better
proof to show,
I speak of this fair Austral land two hundred
years ago !
It had the things for which you look
Before the time of Captain Cook !
The sermon preached that Christmas morn was
not of dismal tone,
Of lamentation it was shorn, nor did the preacher
groan.
“My friends,” said he “look not behind, nor yet
too far ahead ;
Do that which lies at hand ! Be kind ! ” and that
was all he said.
Yet few regretted words should fail
The Reverend William Walter Wail !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
ULCERATED SORES.
A Child’s Serious Case Cured.
T7IRUPTIONS and ULCERATED SORES are very common in young
E children. Careful washing .impure Soa^we
dressings with Zam-Buk Balm will make
the most distressing case yield.
“ My little five-year-old son had
two very bad Sores on the
of his hands,” says Mr. C. H.
Stokes, of Nicholas-street, New-
town, Geelong. Vic. “At first
they were only small
pimples, but they
gradually became
larger, and started to
discharge matter.
They caused the little
fellow much padn,
which made him bad
tempered and d 1 s-
turbed his rest at
night. I tried poul-
tices of all kinds, but without any good
results The little fellow had been suffeung
in this way for about a month vhen a
friend advised me to try Zam-Buk Balm.
I accordingly procured a pot of Jeßagj.
and after using it for only ,' .i no
child’s hands were perfectiy olear and
one would have dreamt that two large, ulcerated sores ha jfouse, and I shall
four weeks before. Zam-Buk is an invaluable Balm to have in tne
never be without a pot handy.” «
IT
ft
\\ p
v T
ZAM-BUK SOOTHES AND HEALS*
Doctors and Nurses
use and recommend ZAALBUK.BALM, which is a bSbBEKS
SrINGW^
MUSCLES ZAM-BUK rubbed well into
UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSEHOLD BALM for OUTS, BURNS,
STIFFNESS, SORES, SPRING PIMPLES and is INVALU-
HEADS, and all injuries to, and diseases of. I:Je 3km, /'AM * Larpe
ABLE. Obtainable from all Medicine Vendors at Is. •- direct from THE
rot .TASrA
1
A. (8b F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE Q.UEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are bcmg
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale oi
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
&
ih
m
y
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on tbe
fields in tbe West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of tbe diet. Several
times I bad to give up work and
: eek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Eeading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Ilindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYER & CO., LoweU, Mass., U. S, A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
Colored and Artistic
Post Cards.
NO MONEY WANTED,
Send us ypur name and address and we will forward you 12 packets,
each containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards re-
turn us our 65., and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By
continuing the sale of our cards you can earn a Lad ies’ or
Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain ; a Photo Camera
loaded for use; Silver Hair Brushes, and other exquisite and choice prizes. Re-
member, we want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
satisfaction. We take aii the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have
no connection with any other firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards
in Australia, and import our .Jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be
the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. Every month we
are changing and improving our post cards, which are all copyright and cannot be ob-
tained elsewhere. Our illustrated gems of Australian poets, Lindsay Gordon, Patterson,
&e., are unique. Our Actress Series is a collection of popular artists, comprising (trace
Palotta, Sarah Bernhardt, Nellie Stewart, and many other artists renowned for their
talent and beauty. Our London Series contains world famous historic London buildings.
Our prizes give full satisfaction and are as represented in illustrations. We refer to any
trade agency, or to our many well-pleased agents. We have thousands of testimonials
having built up eur large business by giving full satisfaction to all.
REGAL POST CARD CO.. BK O’Connell St., Sydnev, N.S.W.
F
E
E
E
m
m
&
35
\P
&
W/t
i\\
RRER TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY TOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s mproved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
s the most perfect and completeever -nvented.
It will cure all ases u Ruemuatism, Varico-
cele, Indiges ion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney Live , and St macli Complaints. Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women, If yon are weak in anyway
delay no.longer but write to-day for our splen-.
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
I PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SITIDISriETr.
Hat
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
f to the ears as glasses are to the
eres. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
AMnm— A. M. HAST, 14& Colllni Sts, Mslboorae,
Health, Strength a«d Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks' by the use of
0S RJ CORO’S
tSS£^* \,\ F £•,
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence gf Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AIT INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
tent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
A Good Appetite
comes only by having a perfect acting liver and good digestion—
both can easily be obtained by using
Beeeltant’s
Pills
they are a reliable remedy for the cure of
Biliousness, Lassitude, Impaired
Digestion, Poor Appetite,
Costiveness,
Wind and Pains in the Stomach, Discomfort after Meals, and
all other troubles which arise from a disordered liver or stomach.
They cleanse the system, give tone to the digestive
organs, and will, if taken according to directions,
restore you to sound and vigorous health.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are specially suitable for Females
of all ages. Every woman who values health should
read the Instructions wrapped round each box .
Worth a Guinea a Box
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, price, (36 pills), l/lsd. (56 pills)
and 2/9 (168 pills).
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF EELP-CHRB, Will
forward the same, free o,’ charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, 6.P.0., SYDNEY.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 4.8
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name |)*r-
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in doth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COLLIB BROWNE'S
£N LORODYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COCJGrHS, COLDS-
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, »fcc. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 2S, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ON THE HOP
The Finest Book of Illustrations ever issued in Australia.
Three Hundred of “ Hop’s ” Pictures superbly produced.
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift.
MEN
a NO
w OMEN
Over 20,000 CASES Successfully
Treated during the last 25 years.
SUCCESS UNPARALLELED IN AUSTRALIA.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
The only Legally Qualified Author and Specialist Advertising and
Holding his Qualifications.
Specialist in Nervous, Skin Troubles, Rupture, Varicocele, etc.
Consulting Physician in Men’s Special Disorders.
DISEASES OF WOMEN A SPECIALITY. Moderate Charges.
Effectual Treatment, Absolute and Rapid Cures.
Acute Disorders Cured in 48 hours. Chronic Cases, sto 10 davs
SPECIAL NOTICE.—DR. MARTIN.’S Five Lectures may be bad for 2s. fid., post free. *
PRESS EXTRACTS.—The Australian Press on Dr. Martin’s publications. Post Free.
“SPECIMEN PAGES.”—A glimpse of what “The Diseases of Men and Women” is like. Thirtv-two
pages, fully illustrated. Posted Free for two stamps. ' ■'
Consultation Free (personally, or by letter). Hours, 10 to 4 ; 7 to 9 daily.
Dr. Martin receives a Limited Number of RESIDENT Patients at “ ELMLEY HOUSE.”
CALL OR WRITE. NOTE ADDRESS—
DR. MARTIN, M.D., 11 Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-street,
mentmp KOuiI.MIK
HYDE. PARK,
SYDNEY.
Refrigerating and Ice-M
the BEST TABk


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables —better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than 01
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot .that’s not nearly so
good: Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ASTH MA CURE
6RIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma.NervonsConehs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by (JEIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAH-
KITES, Sold by all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MAIHMATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
■*£23Lm
CoHr
WOLF
IdO
AX
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. &J. MAXFIELD, Props B., SHEFFIELD.
HARDY’S
TINTARA
WINES. .
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“THE WONDER”
AIR HAMMER
DRILLS .. .
Sole
Agents-
W. and J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., —and at— 64 PITT STREET,
MELBOURNE SYDNEY.
Wonder Drills are essentially “ONE MAN” ROCK DRILLS.
Require only 25 CUBIC FEET of free air. per minute compressed at about 801bs. pressure.
VERY SIMPLE AND EXTREMELY STRONG. -3P82 Particulars on Application.
The ORIGINAL anti BEST AIR HAMMER PERCUSSION ROCK DRILLS.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
As well as Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
ISLjSk.’XrJEi JUST STOCK ■■■ni
Ali Kinds of Engineers* Fittings and Supplies
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
Valves
Plummer Blocks Drills
Collars Reamers
Couplings Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, all kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
Write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & 'TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can he obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
OUR NEW STOCK OF
SPRING SUITINGS
Has arrived, of which we cordially invite
an inspection.
DAVID BRAHAM& CO.,
94- KING ST. (between George & Pitt Sts.),
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING
in all its branches, including Ladies’ Work.
HATTERS <gt MERCERS.
Stocking only the products of the Leading
Manufacturers—and Sole Agents in N S.W.
for the well-known
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS AND NIGHTWEAR,
And Underclothing: of every kind for both Ladies
and Gentlemen.
Call and inspect, or write for Samples, Price Lists,
&c., post free.
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By ** Bulletin” Writers.
The Book is adorned , , .
By ** Bulletin ” Artists.
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN COOP YARNS-ALL
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the Price Post Free from this Office.
Lockwood Bros.,' Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
'X BEST.
Sol
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176| 2,BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle -mm 213
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
S'3TXJ3\r3E5‘X’.
AND ALL ACCESSORIES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST to
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER COY.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
5^
SOLID
HGffEOffMT
98
RftCKAROCK
UTHRIDGE, LTD., SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
- of -
RACKAROGK.
THE CHEAPEST AND SAFEST HIGH EXPLOSIVE.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers of the New Patent Compound,
Invaluable for mining because of the absence of fumes. Especially
adapted for clearing land of timber. The ingredients of these com-
pounds are not explosive, and they can be transported like ordinary goods.
“ NEVERMISS” Blue Fuse, Detonators, Electric Firing Batteries,
Electric Fuses, Wire, &c >
££
RENDROCK
»
