

sdf
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
B. G. WATKINS £Z> CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineer Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sd
BELT DRIVEN
HYDRO- EXTRACTOR.
EtOBA,BLT.
Hadley’s Orient fiotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER
m
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowics & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents eor BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
DIRECT STEAM, BELT and ELECTRICALLY DRIVEN for DRYING WOOL, MEAT-REFUSE, SALT,
SUGAR, CHEMICALS, LAUNDRIED GOODS &c.
For Particulars apply to GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
fs
df
sdf
Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
' r
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
THE BOYAL
ISWAN LAMP.
•' V.
.VAN
1
ii/i
sv
.Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
IDISON a SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depdt:
Commonwealth
Buildings, .
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
u
sd
TO
ADD
Are the Wings that
give Speed to the
Twentieth Century
Motor or
fs
df
sdf
ask your grocer
mt.
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
Ox
m
V
mmSmrnm
m
TEA!
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY- ™
IN BOTTLE'*!
sd
OIL
ENGINES
No Other ii
the World
EQUAI.S
fsd
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
A3.OLUTE
Reliability
Simplicity
efficiency
Durability
Economy.
o Worry or Trouble
no LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
USE
'm
it
99
ipf.
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 COPPIN ST..
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
HELIDON SPA. Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATERS
fanT.T TTVr 2= a
The Bulletin
'ol. 27.—N0. 1378.]
[Thursday, July 12, 1906
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CHEAP BOOKS.
—
All at Sixpence Each, or Eightpence Posted : 16 Post Free
for Ten Shillings, or 33 for One Pound.
Rm^™™° d M Robbery Arma - Boothby, Lust of Hate, Dr. Nikola. Bullen, With Christ at Sea Caine
C w lmonde . ley >. Red Potta ? e > Eliot > Scenes of Clerical Life ; Fowler, Sirius ; Gallon’
a Kin- Wo,nan T A K a,ns t the World; Grier, Warden of the Marches; Gunter, Conscience of
Olemraiil'M ’ Montezuma s Daughter; Hawthorne, House Seven Gables; Hornung, Tiny Luttrell ■ Mason
S L;S erS ; Be< W V - T l[errh,lari ' With Ed S ed Tools > The Grey Lady, Velvet Glove, Vultures, n Keda "s
w m ,V I ’V '' As a Man Lives, Survivor, World’s Great Snare. Orczy, Emperor’s Candlesticks- OHo
S; Mod^^ ard ’ Ouida, Puck, Tricotrin, Moths. Oxenham, John of Gerisau Torn Sails On
Tolsloi 'K,, the ! Vlnd - l Uarthowen, Hearts of Wales. Rita, Countess Pharamond ; Sergeant, Barbara’s Money •
esnmction ; Tracy, Darkest Hour. tST A large list of sixpenny editions mailed free on inquiry ’
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLE REACH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great • .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For this Cork of
Bronchitis !
ahd Influenza !
anel the Prevention
of Consumption.
a
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
0. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
say3: —
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
W HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES TK
-. AAA • atiw AM AVU vn nAlOAlimifi nnilA Qnl r 1 Ktf All fill oiv»i of Q in firm H!D ni
iMauri'iui) CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUB DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/6, or
from’the Manufacturer G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
Depot •6 & 7 Queen’s Place, Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W„ London.
THE RED PAGE.
WRININGER’S FIRST PART
ON 4th October, 1903, a talented Ger-
man student of science, Otto Wein-
inger, died by his own hand. He
had not completed his twenty-fourth
year. He left behind him a book which has
given him something more than a momentary
European reputation, and which has been
recently published in English with the title
of Sex and Character (Lond., Heinemann;
17s. net).
It is a book of hypotheses upon the nature
and issues of human sex. The author has
not personally collected experimental or
statistical evidence : he has collated such
as lay to his hand. Thus he deals
chiefly with intuitions, speculations, and
writes nothing like an Origin of Species in
his subject. He flies ahead of his evidence,
and in one sense his precocity is prema-
ture. But his kindling mind points and
stresses the way of research, and with the
scaffolding he has erected others will be
helped to build laboriously. He is a new
example of the value of the philosophical
imagination. Poe pointed out that Kepler
guessed his laws, and the proof came later.
So Mme. Curie guessed at radium, and
worked to demonstrate its existence.
Weininger’s brief life was like the flight of
a rocket: his book is the shower of lingering
sparks. In the literary aspect it is divided
into two parts : one stating what must still
be called a theory of sexual science, how-
ever well supported ; the other applying the
theory. In the theory intrinsically there is
no novelty. In the present writer’s memoir
of Barcroft Boake, published in 1897, it was
summarised exactly as Weininger might
summarise it.
There is a modern theory which holds that the
characters of both male and female are contained
in every individual of a bisexual species. At
some time previous to birth causes still imper-
fectly understood decide which set of characters
is to become overt, which to remain covert. But
often it seems as if influences this way and that
had been so equally balanced that the prepon-
derating sex is belied by the outward symbols.
We speak of “ masculine women,” of “effeminate
men.” And it is curious to note how in such
persons, as life goes on, the sex really dominant
frequently develops secondary characteristics in
defiance of the sex primarily in possession.
If the idea be grasped that outward sex-form is
no infallible indication of the dominant sex, but
merely an expression of the resultant of sex-forces
at one particular stage of growth, a flood of light
is shed on apparent physical and psychical
anomalies. We see every individual not as male
wholly or female wholly, but as compounded of
male and female in proportions indefinitely vary-
ing. This person, outwardly male, is essentially
three-fourths female ; that one, outwardly female,
is One-third male ; yonder is another in whom
male and female meet on equal terms. The com-
binations are infinite,
That was possibly the most definite state-
ment published up to that time, and it was
formulated upon hints and indications in
Weismann, Geddes and Thomson, and others.
And Weininger writes :
Amongst human beings the state of the case is
as follows : There exist all sorts of intermediate
conditions between male and female—sexual tran-
sitional forms... Living beings cannot be described
bluntly as of one sex or the other. The real
world from the point of view of sex may be
regarded as swaying between two points, no actual
individual being at either point, but somewhere
between the two.
But Weininger expands this idea ingeni-
ously and applies it originally, often in
passages of insight, and sometimes with cap-
tivating energy. He draws, from the now-
accepted doctrine of Steenstrup, that sexual
characters are present in every part of the
body, “the direct logical inference...that
every cell in the body is sexually character-
istic and has its definite sexual significance.”
More, ‘ ‘ there may be conceived for every
cell all conditions, from complete mascu-
linity, through all stages of diminishing
masculinity to its ooinplete absence and the
consequent presence of complete femininity.”
as a rule, there is the same specific
sexuality for all the cells.”. But this may
alter.
The fact is that every human being varies or
oscillates between the maleness and the female-
ness of his constitution. In some cases these
oscillations are abnormally large, in other cases so
small as to escape observation, but they are
always present, and when they are great they
may even reveal themselves in the outward aspect
of the body. Like the variations in the magnet-
on of the earth, these sexual oscillations are
either regular or irregular. The regular forms
are sometimes minute; for instance, many men
feel more male at night.
Eor all these ideas, though Weininger pro-
fesses satisfaction with his evidence, con-
vincing evidence has still to be supplied.
What can be said at present is that the
body of evidence so far collected tends to
justify Weininger’s hypotheses. He him-
self, after merely sketching lines of justifica-
tion, proceeds to discuss corollaries. By
way of Greek myth and Goethe’s “Elective
Affinities ” he reaches a hypothetical law of
sexual attraction based upon the cardinal
theory of distributed sex : and one is
tempted to add to “ All roads lead to Rome,”
“ All minds return to Plato.”
The law runs as follows: “For true sexual
union it is necessary that there come together a
complete male (M) and a complete Female (F)»
even although in different cases the M and F are
distributed between the two individuals in differ-
ent proportions.
This means that for a perfect sexual union,
the two individuals must make a perfect pair
physiologically. In support, W eining ;r says:
Everyone possesses a definite, individual taste of
nis own with regard to the other sex. If we com-
pare the portraits of the women which some
famous man has been known, to love, we shall
nearly always find that they are closely alike, the
similarity being_ most obvious in the contour
(more precisely in the “ figure ”) or in the face,
out on closer examination being found to extend
to the minutest details, ad unguem, to the finger-
tips. It is precisely the same with everyone else,
bo, also, every girl who strongly attracts a man
recalls to him the other girls he has loved before.
We see another side of the same phenomenon
when we recall how often we have said of some
aequanitMceor another, “I can’t imagine how
that type of woman pleases him/’ Darwin, in
Descent of Man,'’collected many instances
ol the existence of this individuality of the sexual
taste amongst animals, and I shall be able to show
plant 16re are ana^°ffous phenomena even amongst
Sexual attraction is nearly always, as in the
ca ®6 °f gravitation, reciprocal....
The common saying, “ Waiting for Mr. Right,’
or statements such as that “So-and-so are quite
unsuitable for one another, ’’ show the existence
ol an obscure presentiment of the fact that every
man or woman possesses certain individual pecu-
liarities which qualify or, disqualify him or her for
marriage with any particular member of the
opposite sex; and that this man cannot be substi-
tuted for that, or this woman for the other with-
out creating a disharmony.
And he quotes Carmen aptly :
“ L’amour est un oiseau rebel
Quer.ul ne peut apprivoiser ;
Rt c <st bien en vain qu’on V appcUc
S'il lui convient de refuser.
Rien rly fait; menace ou priere:
L'un parle, V autre se tait;
Rt c cst l autre que je prfyere ;
II n'a rien dit, mais il me plait.
IJ amour est enfant de Boheuie
II n a jamais comiu de loi.”
Yet beyond this personal attraction, a gene-
ral attraction is admitted to depend upon a
deeper natural instinct—something like what
chemists call a “tropism,” an inherent
attraction of molecules.
Weininger's form is loose : his mind
flashes in so many directions that it is
difficult for him to shed rays in a steady
path. Thus his first part, which should have
stated his grounds and related his argu-
ments, is occupied also with the circum-
stantial development of inferences. It is
precisely in this development, however, that
he grows most suggestive and interesting.
The detached quotations which follow are all
radiant from his central idea.
Womanish men are usually extremely anxious
to marry, at least (I mention this to prevent mis-
conception) if a sufficiently brilliant oppoitunity
offers itself. When it is possible, they nearly
always marry whilst they are still quite young. Ib
is especially gratifying to them to get as wives
famous women, artists or poets, or singers and
actresses.
Womanish men are physically lazier than other
men in proportion to the degree of their woman-
ishness. There are “ men ” who go out walking
with the sole object ot displaying their faces like
the faces of women, hoping that they will be
admired, after which they return, contentedly
home. The ancient “ Narcissus ” was a prototype
of such persons. These people are naturally fas-
tidious about the dressing of their hair, their
apparel, shoes, and linen ; they are concerned as
to their personal appearance at all times, and
about the minutest details of their toilet. They
are conscious of every glance thrown on them by
other men, and'because of the female element in
them, they are coquettish in gait and demeanour.
Viragoes, on the other hand, freqmntly are care-
less about their toilet, and even about the per-
sonal care of their bodies ; they take less time in
dressing than many womanish men. The dandv-
ism of men on the one hand, and much of what is
called the emancipation of women, are due to the
increase in the numbers of these epicene creatures,
and not merely to a passing fashion.
Indeed, if one inquires why anything becomes
the fashion, it will be found that there is a true
cause for it.
The more femaleness a woman possesses the
less will she understand a man, and the sexual
characters of a man will have the greater in-
fluence on her. This is more than a mere applica-
tion of the law of sexual attraction, as I have
already stated it. So also, the more manly a man
is the less will he understand women, but the more
readily be influenced by them as women. Those
men who claim to understand women are them-
selves very nearly woman. Womanish men often
know how to treat women much better than manly
men. Manly men, except in most rare cases, learn
how to deal with women only after long experi-
ence, and even then most imperfectly.
An ingenious point is made in this :
I must here contradict, in the most positive
fashion, a dogma that is authoritatively and
widely maintained at the present time, the idea
that all women are alike, that no individuals
exist amongst women.
The psychological origin of this common error
depends chiefly on the fact that every man in his
life becomes intimate only with a group of women
defined by his own constitution, and so naturally
he finds them much alike. For the same reason,
and in the same way, one may often hear a
woman say that all men are alike. And the
narrow uniform view about men, displayed by
most of the leaders of the women’s rights move-
ment, depends on precisely the same cause.
Weininger’s chapter upon “Emancipated
Women,” though to some extent evidential,
may be considered with his conclusions upon
another occasion.
LOOSE ENDS TIED
IT was demanded on June 7 whether Mr.
>) ustice O’Connor with a crucial vote would
or would not disqualify H. MeC. in a verse
competition. (For details consult people
who have the sense to keep on file the wisdom
here kept on tap.) Responses on desk from Percy
V i he m ™who likes It plain”); Mars; W.H. ;
.-?!■> L.C.R. (?“the man who likes It
with a. serviette and a flower”) —five. Their
unanimity in disqualifying H. MeC. is won-
derful. The compositions of other competi-
tors accordingly have been reconsidered, with
intent to find the “most poetical”—which in
these circumstances means the least unpoetical.
Wavering between “Mars”—whose form is
slightly the better, and F. Bellman—who exhibits
•trifle the more sentiment, one plumps 10s. (id. for
the latter, who is enjoined gratefully to remember
henceforth that choir is a long monosyllable only.
Remains to decide who gave O’Connor’s judg-
ment most convincing utterance — i.e., in this case,
the utterance which would most convince a
hearer that the disqualification of H.McC. is just.
There is no difficulty in awarding 10s. 6 d. to L. C.
Robinson, 69 North Terrace, Adelaide, for the
following:
“The best poetical continuation, in not more
than twelve lines.” First, define “continuation.”
Webster says,—l. The act of continuing, or the
state of being continued ; uninterrupted exten-
sion or succession, prolongation, production, pro-
pagation. 2. That which extends, increases, or
supplements. Required, then, the extension, or
supplementing of lines given, such supplement,
by the terms of the contest, not to exceed twelve
lines. Therefore the complete poem must not
exceed 14| lines. But the poem under considera-
tion contains 16 lines, 2£ given, and 13J extension,
and so apparently exceeds the conditions. The
last verse, however, is repetition ; can repetition
be regarded as continuation? Well, does it sup-
plement the previous verses? Yes. Then it is
continuation.
Sentimentally, is it fair to exclude a very
meritorious production because the writer appar-
ently misunderstood the conditions ? Yes ; for
had the other competitors not been limited, had
they, for instance, been permitted to offer four
verses instead of three, it is- quite possible that
the ultimate result may have been better than the
one under discussion. Therefore H.Mc. should
be disqualified.
Sig. L.C.R.
(“Sentimentally” is regarded as a blot on this
judgment.) Another member of the bench repre-
sents O’Connor as saying “If not so, why for?”
—and one hopes he was misreported. Yet
another fines us £lOO for having caused the
trouble ; and the fine will presently be paid in the
silent notes which Cupid strikes. —And we rather
like this :
O’Connor’s Judgment.
Judgment depends upon whether :
(a) The first stanza is replaced in a new position
(as stanza four) after use as stanza one.
If after use as stanza one such removal is effected, it
follows that this act makes the whole sense non-existent.
Since the conditions require a continuation, the removal
of that to which the continuation is put must take away
the continuation also, and create a blank.
(b) If it be urged that stanza one is also in position as
stanza four one stanza in two places at one
time, the argument cannot be considered, it being
inconceivable of acceptance—like proof of presence
in a place and an alibi also.
(c) Hence the fourth verse can only be allowed as a
different verse ; but so like verse one as to be in-
capable of differentiation.
Proof of its existence as a separate verse is, therefore,
proof of non-compuance With the conditions.
(Such proof also disposes of the argument that the
first three lines of stanza one are merely re-
copied in four by proving that four is quite separate
from one.)
Judgment is, therefore, disqualification for non-com-
pliance with the conditions— i.e. exceeding twelve lines.
Mars.
T. A. Coghlan’s letter to The Times on “ Crime
and Education in Australia ” was not only an
important Govt, argument in relation to the
Education Bill, but was a final answer to the
continual clamour of religionists in this country.
The buttress of the religionist position has been a
set of figures apparently showing that between
1881 and 189 L crime in Victoria had increased at a
faster ratio than had the population. Coglilan
proves, however, by a division into age groups,
that the increase was amongst persons who could
not have attended State schools during the in-
criminatory period. Continuing with a general
comparison, he shows that the native-born popu-
lation of Australia are far less given to crime than
those who receive their education elsewhere.
It is difficult toArace a direct relation between
crime and education one -way or the other, and
Coghlan draws the just conclusion that it is the de-
velopment of Australian industrial and social con-
ditions which tends, on the whole, to the general
betterment of the community, and to the reduc-
tion of crime. He ends that “ the best proof of
the beneficial effect of the spread of education in
Australia is the notable decrease observable in the
number of arrests for offences against good order.
As the result of his education, the Australian has
become resolutely well behaved, his face is set
steadily against drunkenness and its concomitant
evils, and statesmen of all shades of opinion are
united on this common ground that the surest
defence the country possesses against crime is the
education of its people.”
A Bond, correspondent says that Arthur
Streeton may be expected in Australia 500 n....
Laughter’ and Tears, a book of Frank Morton’s
verses, is announced for Dunedin publication ;
price, ss. Morton is an impetuous original and a
good fellow, whose work is cosmopolitan rather
than Australian....“To preach is human; to
refrain divine,” says W. J. Price.
A cheerful little tale from ’Frisco. A husky
Californian pioneer, Capt. Dimond, 106 years old,
was met by a friend. “ Save anything, Capn. ? ”
“Not'a d thing: I’ve got to begin all over
again.”
THE CHEERLKSS CORE. AND THE OTHER
rp 0 several friendly bodies. G.W.P: ■'Hut
I you have n’t got the melody ; you haven’t even
■ the rhythm ;—and you slur the opposition of
Zwei and Wir; — and instead of sombreness with
a sardonic edge you have almost a fan-flirtation :
Philo” writes juristically: Bret Harte’s daughter
errs in saying- that her father is “ half a Hebrew.” (3/5/6.)
According to Jewish doctrine, only when the mother is
a Jewess is the offspring Hebrew. The male parent
does n’t count anything. Bret Harte was no nearer being
a Hebrew than he would have been had both parents been
non-Jewish.
“Ignotus” traces Kipling’s “ Song of the Old Guard ”
in Traffics and Discoveries to Alexander Browne’s mock
song put into the mouth of a Parliamentarian leader,
with its refrain, “The clean contrary way.” It is the
same metre ; and the refrain, used in one sense for five
stanzas, is used in the reversed sense in the last, exactly
as Kipling uses “ Hey then, up go we !” I think if you
printed the two poems side by side nobody would doubt
Kipling got his idea from Browne. Kipling’s is infinitely
better done, but whether that Justifies an act of piracy, I
cannot say.” “ Piracy ” seems too harsh a word. It’s per-
fectly fair to revitalise an old form, if the charge ends there.
“ Llewellyn,” who was noted as rhyming “strains ” and
“flame,” urges that “the few lines I wrote beginning
1 The silgntnote, &c.’ werein blank verseand notmeant to
rhyme.”\ And..'t is so long since we’ve seen the term
“ blank verse ” applied to anything English but the line
of ten syllables, that it needed J-second to realise
that Llew’s application is just if injudicious. But here is
his exhibit :
Hypercritically, that may be called “ blank verse,” but
no one but the author would guess it such ; and, even
as “ blank verse,” its mutilated rhyme is strychnine with
spasms.
“ Lost ” “ respectfully ” declares that “ Friedrich
Loofs, prof, of Church'History in Halle, has accomplished
far greater feats in the leaping line than Haeckel ” —who
was credited with a 20ft. long jump.—One doubts not
that if some people saw Loofs jump farther than Haeckel,
some people would think less of Haeckel’s evolution
argument.
J.J.S.: Neither copy reached us.
F.P.A. demands of your charity Who Wrote
credited by Rev. John Watson to “ our poet of unbelief.’
F.B. answers Webster precisely : “ A bag swag ” is com-
posed of wheat bags, unripped; usually known as
“Wagga rugs” or “ Murrumbidgee blankets.” —“ Bo-
yangs” or “ bow-yangs’•’—according to the late P.
Mowbray (S. le W.), who posed as an authority on such
subjects, is derived from “ bow ” (knot) and “ yank ” (to
pull); it is used garter-wise by navvies—below the knee—
to relieve the waist-belt of the strain of heavy moleskins.
♦
In Barrier Truth Grant Hervey tells the pretty
story of Victor Daley and a rose. For certain
high misdemeanours Daley had believed himself
forced to threaten one of his youngsters with a
whipping. “Bedtime came, but no Xavier.
Daley fossicked up a waddy, and laid it by for use
in the morning. 1 1 woke very early next day,’
said Daley, ‘ with the idea that there was someone
moving in the room. I sat up. On my breast I
found a beautiful red rose, and I just saw Xavier
scurry through the doorway. fJo; he did n’t get
that beating.’”
An Amer. writer samples “the best wit of Con-
gress.” First on his list is Thos. B. Reed :
Reed’s first retort of note was uttered after some inter-
rupting member had asked him a question intended to
confuse him, but which he had answered with telling
effect.
“And now, having embalmed that fly in the liquid
amber of my remarks, I will proceed,” said Reed, bring-
ing down the house.
Discussing some of the leaders of the Opposition, Mr.
Reed once exclaimed, after naming them :
“Neither of them ever says a word without subtract-
ing from the sum total of human knowledge.”
Said an opponent “of Reed’s: “An honest man is the
noblest work of God. As for me, Mr. Chairman, in the
words of an eminent American statesman, “ I would
rather be right than be President.”
“The gentleman from Illinois needn’t worry, Mr.
Chairman,” drawled Reed ; “ He’ll never be e:—ther.”
The speech of John Allen which most completely con-
vulsed his colleagues was his valedictory in which he
asked the Republicans, his political opponents, to erect a
$20,000 fish hatchery in his native town of Tupelo,
Mississippi.
“ Why, sir, fish will travel overland for miles to get in
the water we have at Tupelo,” he said, addressing the
Speaker. “Thousands and millions of unborn fish are
clamoring to this Congress to-day for an opportunity to
be hatched at Tupelo.”
Lauding his beloved Tupelo to his colleagues', Allen
said this:
“Oh, if you could only stand upon College Hill in
Tupelo, and"see one of our sunsets. It is very near the
centre of the earth. You can stand there and look
around, andyou will see the horizon just about the same
distance from you in every direction. Such moons as we
have down there,” he added, with fine eloquence. “It is
the only place in the South to-day where w r e have the same
silvery, southern moon that we used to have before the
war.”
No greater wit ever sat in Congress than the late
“ Sunset” Cox, of Ohio. Speaking upon the tariff ques-
tion. Mr. Cox once said :
“If the mother gives her child castor oil, she pours
down 148 per cent, ad valorem. If the child does not
enjoy the dose there is a 25 per cent, bowl as the re-
cipient of the contents of its tender stomach ; and
though she ‘ wash it with nitre and take to it much soap,
yet the iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord,’ for
the soap is taxed forty per centum. God help the child.”
One of the greatest uproars of laughter ever heard in
the House was caused by a member from Colorado who
made a motion “ that Congress adjourn sine die." This
motion to adjourn the whole Congress and not the House
only caused a general outburst which surprised the
Coloradoan. Not cognizant of his real error ar.d sus-
■pecting that “ sine die " was the wrong term to use, he
again arose, shouting :
“ I move this House do now adjourn bona fide.”
At this there was an uproar, and he bobbed up for the
third time, shouting :
“ Mr. Speaker, I move that we just purely and simply
adjourn.”
Carried, nem. con.
A.G.S.
At parting, at parting,
11 is hand in hers its lying ;
And oh ! the sighs, the yeanling eyes,
The tears there’s no denying.
At parting, at parting,
We would not own our sorrow ;
Only “ Good-bye ” —no tear, no sigh.,.
They came on the long morrow.
The silent note which Cupid strikes
Reverberates in hidden strains
Of harmony that stir, unbid,
The heart’s cold hearth to lambent flame.
Alas, Lord !■ surely Them art great and fair,
But, lo ! Mr wonderfully woven hair:
And Thou, didst heal us with thy piteous kiss ;
But, see now, Lord, her mouth is lovelier.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &C.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS for Sporting Material.
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
DBBL Gun 12 or 16 Gauge. top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent m n
D.’ &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 6/2. *»OS
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L,
Gun
fs
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension nh,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.l.W.. Ntd.
LESTON, e 'DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postasre —N.5.W.,259d: Inter-State, 6s 2d .. .. .. .. .. • • ... ••
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b. .. .. • •
Postage— N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 6s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W.,' 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 6s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
x>.a. .; 6s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Sienien’*
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Beai Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Gross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
df
“The Reliable,
£6 12s 6d
sdf
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLEBS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeiey-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2Jin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the A 4 A 1A«
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s9dN.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State. .. .. .. w* » I*o
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2}lb.
"THE MAINE
Pif/e
PRICE 15 6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMON3.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt act ion, weight about 2f lb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plat.e, weight 2flb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3jlb. Postage—
N.S.W., is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d
13s 6d
18s Od
16s Od
Stevens’
"Little Krag.
sd
Sickens’ £.S. “ Little Kra.g,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 201 n. long-, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
sight, with V sight if required, 6d extra ; length over all S6in.,
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S. W. ; 2s 8d Inter-State)..
21s
fsd
Folding Orchard Cun,
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g.
action, finest Sienien’s Steel 24
case hardened locks, length ove
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stocl
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9 N.S. W. ;
3/2 Interstate.
side lever
in. Barrel,
all3B£in,
35s
We can now
supply these
guns with
skeleton
stocks same
f
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3}lb
Postage— ls 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
sdf
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long, or 18 long Rifle Cartridges), weight 6jlb
1897 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight 6£lb. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d)
£3
£4
A-MMirKTITIOKT.
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
LAWN TENNIS.
f'IFt.RN
3/6
Wmm
; ;
.p’:
fIANbICAP*
5/-
rs
StANbARt
7/3
I
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d inter-State.
The abov e four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
Renshavv .. .. 13s 6d
Demon .. .. 18s
Whitehouse .. 25s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Ootta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6rl
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s fid
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s fid
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s fid
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion . 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
~y v.. ...
BOXING GLOVES .
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 25s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
Mmmm
The “ARMY,” 18s 6d
PUNCHING BALLS
(Postage on ordinary ball, 9d. N.S.W., Is 2d Interstate).
Complete. Each.
“ ARMY," Bound Shape, soft tan leather, cover, 1 piece top, and welted
seams. These balls are very light, suitable for fast work... ,7s (id, 10s 6d, 15s
“ ARMY,” Regulation Style, finest selected calf-skin, double stitched, welted
seams, reinforced throughout, very fast 16s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s
“ARMY,” Pear Shape, else similar to above 27s 6d, 35s
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, made from heavy selected cow-hide, very strong,
suitable for club use. ' ] is 6d, 15s, 18s, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
“ EXPERT,” Medium Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for
ceiling attachment, made with fine grain leather, 1 piece top,
reinforced. 8s 6d, 14s, 21s
“EXPERT,” Regulation Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment, made with solid cow hide 16s 6d, 20s, 21s
THE
ASCOT
3* **
Mick Simmons
ASCOT, No. 1, Pol. Wood Box, 4 horses, 5s ; post 9d N.S. W., Is 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 2, Pol. Wood Box, 6 horses, 7s 9d ; post Is N.S.W., Is 8d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 3, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, 11s ; post Is N.S.W., lsBd Inter-State
ASCOT, No. 4, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, larger, 13s 6d ; post Is 3d N.S.W.,
2s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 5, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, lined trav, ISs 6d ; post Is 9d
N.S.W., 3s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 8 horses, sup., 27s 6d ; post 2s N.S.W.
I lustrated Flshlngr Tackle, Sports, Tobacco List?, Anglers’ iii'de and H*nt? on Fishing—Post Free.
REI> ITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.'73XII
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


GRAND VITAL POWSR
Weak Puny'Men !We can give you the Power that makes Men happy, the
irength that turns sadness into joy, misery into mirth. We can make
you strong, sturdy Men no matter how weak or run down vitally you may
° e ’ nil I’ ° r w f'* e *° us - ® ur advice is Free. We do not patch men up.
All Australia knows us as Reliable Specialists in Men’s Diseases.
Our Methods are to Cure Men to
Stay Cured.
They become our Best Proof of Skill.
No Man but a Specialist should treat
a Genito -Ur in ary Disease .
We excel in this Speciality .
m
■
4 V/4
m
a '
, « as
; I
*4*
m
oW/;
m
A SrS
SAs
z
sa
w-{
&
w
&S
if
Get Treated in your own Homes.
We give yon evidence daily and the greatest of proofs
that we excel as Men’s Specialists, and can you any
longer doubt our ability or sincerity to cure you ?
If you have the slightest doubt in your mind we will
further prove the efficacy of our treatment.
Patients who take our home treatment receive the same
expert attention as if we saw them in person. When we
receive our Question Chart filled out correctly, our
Specialists are able to diagnose your case as accurately as
if you were personally present. Our Diagnosis
Charts are seriously studied by our Specialists, and care-
ful records made of each so that we understand your case
as well as if you had given us a personal call.
***.******#****
Our Enormous Medical Practice.
We are treating-thousands of eases annually, and is it
not reasonable to suppose that we understand such cases
better than those who are treating only a few hundred?
Practice makes perfect. Order your treatment at
once, and let us add your name to our long list of cures.
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our
treatment will not cure you, it is a duty you owe to your-
self to write to some of the references we continuously
publish, and send an addressed envelope for reply. Ask
any of those who have given testimonies if we can benefit
you. We court the closest investigation. Our Parcel
Pos. S,s .em h£s saved thousands of men who would now
be in their graves had we not reached and treated them
by this most excellent of mail systems.
«- SIC- * * *
sic- -:K- * * sjj
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE INSTITUTE
Of PHYSICIANS, SURGEONS, and SPECIALISTS.
Y oung, Middle-aged and Old Men, what are your troubles ? Have you a thorough
understanding of the value of your health, or what it means to be without it ’ W e can te n v * u
that it is the best blessing a man can receive. Therefore, do not lose it completely if correct
Medical treatment will cure your troubles. Remember, patients treated and cured by us run
into thousands. We have thousands at present upon our books treated by our Parcel Post
System. We receive grateful letters daily.
These people have read our advertisements, and been recommended by cured friends One
Thing is Certain— we treat and cure them whatever may be the cause of consultation".
As we diagnose a disease, pronouncing a man curable, studying the cause duration and
phenomena of diseased condition, we effect a cure, provided the patient obediently takes our
remedies and obeys the physical laws and dietary instructions we enforce.
Our percentage of cures is Ninety-five per cent. We always treat our patients cour-
teously, study them effectually, prescribe for them honestly. We do not fail to win their good
opinions. Nearly half our business results from recommendations from men saved by us from
premature decay and early ruin. J
As stated in this advertisement we make a specialty in Diseases of Men We allude to
that class of disorder afflicting and attacking what is known physiologically as the Genito
Urinary tract, embracing the most important Organs of Man, Bladder and Kidneys. A com-
plete study of this tract alone demands all a doctor’s time.
Perfection in the treatment of disease is as necessary as in the building of a tabernacle or
the painting of a picture. A concentrative study is absolutely necessary if a doctor desires to
excel in the treatment of one particular form of disease.
,noZ: %k **• «•—«*7«*-.
“ Messrs. Freeman and Wallace,—
a Ge T ral Weakened condition allied to
the Vital Weakness which afflicted Y< * , ki „ iJSRSgS BSSKStISSSS* °<
Orookwell, N.S.W., October 12th, ’O5. Yours faithfully, r VIDLER
and SrßtiSfwC? “» *»<* <»». physical wr'ecli, now st™*
"jXZjS&SSZ ,"■**
£teSa%^SrJS£^
. Here aie some figures ns to the distribution of his Medical Work “ Cldnini Tv-no
££«* 070 pa 7( ' 1 s ’ ; j1 chapters, 150 Medical plates, which we send out free to any addresss*
tvith your address writ.ee £»T. you triil
r^airrstsr 4 we wiu -* - •»» •« *»—% “insrs
Women’s Diseases.
The department for the treatment of
women at the Institute is under the super-
vision of Dr. Elizabeth White, a famous
lady doctor and expert diagnostician, who is registered by the Medical Boards o{
New South Wales, Victoria, New Zealand, and America. Dr. White is possessed
of valuable experience gained at the most famous American and Indian colleges,
and has travelled extensively in India, China, Japan, Australia, and America.
Any suffering woman can consult her at her elegant rooms, 225 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, or by correspondence. Dr. White has studied with some of the leading
scientists of the day.
There are many weaknesses from which women suffer which are far better
understood by a lady physician than by a man, who cannot personally experience
them. For this reason a woman can confidently expect fuller information and
perhaps a keener diagnosis of her condition from the hands of a doctor of her sex.
Sufferers are invited to call, as all consultations are free.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney
P’roomon a# T nn l-U.,4/.. . r\„ -r»» 1 i nr r.
AND AT
MELBOURNE
Howard Freeman, Drrector of Institutes ; Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E. Physician-in-Chief
Dr. El.zabeth White, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children. *


YERS
For coughs and colds.
“ A friend in need is a friend in-
deed.” Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is j ust
such a friend. Never be without it.
It will prove a good friend when you
have a fresh cold, bringing immedi-
ate relief. You will find it equally
true in old colds, bronchitis, whoop-
ing-cough, asthma.
If you will use
'Cherrif tfeetoral
for an irritable throat or weak lungs, >
you will find it “the best friend in
the world.” It acts as a strong tonic,'
clearing up the throat, giving tone
to the relaxed tissues, and greatly
strengthening the lungs.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “ Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell. Mass.. U. S. Aj
The first
for the Preservation of the
tvooCti Licit teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Nice Medicine
rCmS*!
—Verdict of the nursery
upon Scott's Emulsion
of cod liber oil and
hypophosphites of lime
and soda*
A bit of advice to mothers t
Scott’s Emulsion keeps sweet to
the last drop. Get a bottle to-day,
keep it by you, and give a dose
at the first sign of
COLD or COUGH, BRONCHITIS,
WHOOPING COUGH, CROUP,
WASTING,
TEETHING,
MEASLES,
RICKETS.
67, Murray Street, Pyrmont, N.S.W.,
December 17th, 1904. “My friends
used to tell me I would never rear my
little Arthur, aged one year and nine
months. While suffering from measles,
he had a severe attack of bronchitis
and I decided to try Scott’s Emulsion.
The change was wonderful; he is not
like the same child, his cough has
entirely disappeared, he has gained
considerably in weight, and looks
splendid.” (Mrs.) J. Wallace.
+ + +
There are nurseries
which have never
known a day's serious
illness, because the
mother has always
kept a bottle of Scott's
Emulsion* and used it*
& The purest food-medicine and
wonderfully nourishing, thanks
to the superb, original Scott pro-
cess of manufacture. Always
SCOTT’S for children.
——+ + +
«<£ Would you see how they like it?
Write us at once for a free trial bottle
(sending 4d. for postage and mentioning
this paper. SCOTT & BOWNE, Ltd.,
483, Kent Street, Sydney, M.S.W.
IRISH
sd
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
T roublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
fsd
We don’t believe any Aceordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Aceordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent .Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6. extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
uciynnicc m?n_Q
5
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2io Queen St., Brisbane
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ctd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents .
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
fs
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIH AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(.Regd..)
df
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
Ac.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE. H
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Error of God.
If we, in the faith of children
Would take what the world would tell,
In those sweet hours of our love, dear,
Together we went to HelL
Sin stalked, they say, in the sunlight
Through the ranks of the turbaned flowers,
And breathed with the breath of poison
Through the shades of the arching bowers.
The shades in a lace of purple
That lay like a coverlet
Over the lawns, they tell us
Were the spread of a fatal net.
The blooms in their lilied beauty,
That the perfumed airs caressed,
Were serpents poising above us
To strike at their Lord’s behest.
And in grasses kissing your ankles,
In blades that with dew were wet
As loot for the pansied butterflies,
The teeth of a trap He set.
Though never a word was spoken.
Your lips had a tale to tell;
And kissing me to damnation
Together we went to Hell.
When 1 think of that day, when life, dear,
Burst out in a fair new guise,
My heart is aroused to telling
The world to its face it lies.
The only flame that was glowing,
Was the flame of your lips apart;
The only fire that was burning
Was the fire in your fond fierce heart.
The only light that was flashing
Was the light from your hungry eyes ;
And there neither was pain nor anguish
Before us, nor hate nor lies.
And it seems—if the World is truthful
And our port was a Hell flame-red—
That God, in a careless moment,
Had given us Heaven instead.
VIC.
C.N.
Mariana.
“ I will come again,” he said,
“ I will come again,”
But long months and years have fled
And she waits in vain,
Sick with longing for his tread
Spent with doubt and pain.
“ Other lovers seek my side,
They are naught to me;
I am list’ning to the tide,
Straining out to sea,
Scanning plain and mountain side,
For some sign of thee.
“ You will never come ; they say
They might speak to air !
I am watching night and day,
Week and month and year,
While my Springtime slips away, '
Ere I am aware.
“ And the days are very long,
Very long, the nights ;
I am weary of the throng,
Weary of the sights,
Timid where I should be sti.ag,
Dizzy on the heights.
“ Still, down in my heart, I know
You will come at last
Sure as summer’s sun will glow
When the winter’s past!
You will come—you told me so,
And God’s mercy’s vast.”
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES MOCRAE.
Thy Gods, O Israel!
A god behind the cloud-wrack dwelt,
Throned on the skies and robed in flame,
And groaning nations lowly spelt
The letters of his awful name.
The centuries beneath him spread
Their pictured looms of human fate,
Where temples rose, and victims bled,
His vengeance or his pride to sate.
God of the warrior and the priest,
The stricken field, the secret shrine,
They served thee best that feared thee least;
Thy slaves than thou were more divine.
A god behind the cloud-wrack lay
With boon-companions feasting well,
Or drowsed enchanted hours away
In starry meads of asphodel.
Far and faint-heard, from worlds forgot,
The curses and the prayers of men
Rose to his ears, who heeded not,
Or, heeding, smiled —and drowsed again.
God of the sage, the brute, the fool,
Careless to bless us or to ban,
Thanks ! for the world thou wouldst not rule
Grew slowly to the world of Man.
Within the cloud-wrack hour by hour
The wild winds and the sunbeams play,
Now fashioning grim shapes that lour,
Now, dreams to charm the drowsy day.
The god of strength, the god of sloth,
Whether we fear them or despise,
Our wavering minds have shaped them both
From phantoms of the cloud-strewn skies.
Age after age their smile or frown
Has left us careless or afraid,
And we have worshipped, and bowed down,
And knelt before the gods we made.
I.D.
Some drovers who lately brought a mob of
cattle from the Ord River to Queensland report
that they got a pronounced earthquake scare away
out in the interior of Australia. They could hear
trees rustling and rocks falling down the ridges,
while the earth rolled about like a ship’s deck. If
there had been a city on the spot it would have
been San Francisco over again. They also mention
that there is a boiling spring at the head of the
Roper River. Is there anything that Australia
can’t produce ?
“ Flan ” : In a Mulga pub, t’other day, I
found the red, dust-covered and beery dryblowers
discussing the birth-rate question. “All rot!”
said (Specimen Jack. “Why, a blooming kid is
born every second ; and, wot’s more, every time I
breathe a man dies. Ever been to Kanowna ? ”
he asked me, as he eyed my foaming pint. “No !
Well, I had next claim there to Tom Doyle. My
show ran like this.” And to illustrate his tale he
dipped a forefinger deep into my beer and drew a
10-acre block on the counter. “I put down,” he
went on, “ a shaft here (dip) and one here (dip),
and when I got to Kanowna I was near dead from
thirst.” I suggested, for fear he had not quite
recovered, that he should drink my pint. He did.
And they told me afterwards that he had scored
five pints that day at the same trick.
‘ ‘ Yigilans ” describes a Northern Territory
township
Yam Creek is a typical township in the North of Aus-
tralia. It is situated 140 miles from Palmerston, on the
Pine Creek railway, and is the head-quarters of the
Northern Territory Mines of Australia Limited, an
English co. that fooled away close upon a quarter million
of money in a misguided endeavor to develop the re-
sources of the Territory by sinking the right holes in the
wrong places. The works to-day are a wreck, but they
still give employment to two score or so of Chinamen
under the supervision of a dozen whites. There
are two mines—the Ironblow (silver gold) and Mount
Ellison (copper)—connected by 12 miles of line.
The works are situated between the two at Yam Creek,
where a 20-stamp battery lies idle and is fast falling into
decay. A smelter, with two reverberatory furnaces and
two water-jackets, is put in motion for three or four
months every year, in a sad endeavor to keep the pot
boiling. The buildings are fast falling to pieces, and are
used by the blacks as camping places. Yet, at night a
visitor would think the place was full of life and bustle,
because the dynamo which supplies light to the different
quarters clatters until midnight. Below the hill upon
which the works are situated, stands a weary hostelry.
On the other side of the line the “ township ” is much in
evidence. This consists of some hundreds of humpies
built of grass, bark, bamboo and old iron, the homes of
the Chinese storekeepers and miners. A dreary, miser-
able, filthy, unkempt place it is, where some 200 Chinamen
herd with scores of aborigines. There is no supervision
over this motley crew. They break the law by selling
spirituous liquor and opium day and night. A policeman
dwells 20 miles away, but the area he has to travel over
is immense, and he rarely visits Yam Creek unless an in-
furiated nigger runs amok from the effects of opium and
kills a heathen.
Every blacks’ camp has an opium pipe made out of a
penny ink-bottle and a ban boo, and from this the
niggers inhale the fumes of the Celestial’s charcoal.
Everywhere is the compound perfume of opium, decaying
vegetable matter, bad tobacco and the great unwashed.
The blacks have become lazy, loafing vagabonds, living
upon the sale of their lubras. There is no supervision
over the natives in the North ; no reserves or places for
them to occupy. During the rainy season, which lasts
from November until April, they leave the bush and go
into places like Yam Creek for shelter. They bring young-
children with them, which are used as trade. South
Australia is far behind the other States in controlling
the aborigines. The people seem too tired to trouble.
Yam Creek is about the most loathsome place in
Australia. During the wet season the monotony is
sometimes varied by a hurricane, which sweeps the
Chinese hovels into oblivion. Frantic Celestials may
then be seen chasing their belongings for miles, yelling
and gesticulating like monkeys. A few days later the
place is built again, and peace reigns supreme until the
next blow.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. c,._ . . WVVIWfcJ ■
— — / or Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
of Government Debentiire1T d |nr^-Tbed a s^> ,^ A J rri ? U,tUral Lands ’ or on the Security
trahan States or New Zealknd«£**?£ l °£ JU V£? sury Ri,,a °f any of the Aui.
fiSSti Benjamin
General Manager and Aohmrv'. 0 * ; K Wincheom.be, Esq. ; Hollo A. Cape, Esq.
HEAD OFFICE, <57 PITT STREET SYDNEY J * Hlchard T< *ce, F.I.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
, oiuiNjiK. <• ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To DEFY comifetitiokt.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Winchester.
Model 1904 .22 Caliber Rifle
A BIG GUN
FOR A LITTLE MONEY
This new Winchester Single Shot Rifle, designed to handle
.22 Long and .22 Short rimfire cartridges, is the biggest value
in a gun ever offered. It is a take-down fitted with a heavy
21-inch round barrel and Schuetzen stock, and has the cele-
brated Winchester bolt action, which has been so widely imi-
tated. Its low price, simple and serviceable features recom- 1
mend it to all lovers of shooting. Ask your dealer about it. !
BASED UPONTHE WELL KNOWN'hONTSERRAT’IlME FRUIT JUIUE.
Cures While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-Gj Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6; 4 oz., 2-3; 2 oz., 1-3.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
Consult HERR RASMUSSEN,
In Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
- of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed,
aw , Ha TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
weajtjen ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Wili Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6*d.
! BLOOD CURE PILLS. Cure an Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
w«» *_ a ■ kbo, Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blooct
Disorders. BOXES. 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Doubi«?CoJrs£,43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
f Wnmf>n Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
H* UintSlß Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costlvenew-3 Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; IS PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
Another Convincing Proof.
THIS TIME AT MERRYLANDS.
The Case of Mr. H. Almond.
(BY A LOCAL REPORTER.)
Whilst much of the anguish and grief which exist in some families as the result of ill-health is hid
from the gaze of the outside world, and is known only to those who are immediately concerned
sufficient transpires to excite the sympathy of every genuine philanthropist, and to bring forth
strenuous efforts on behalf of suffering humanity. Here is an instance in which the reader will recog
mse a desire on the part of Mr. Henry Almond, storekeeper, Park-road, Merrylands to extend a
helping hand to any who may be afflicted as he was some years back. ’
“In what way was your health affected ? ” inquired the reporter.
“ Well, for two years previous to coming here, and for a good while after starting this business I
was always mad vvith neuralgia, and you may guess that having a complaint like that so lone must
have had a direful effect upon my system generally. Really, sometimes I was fairly raging owing to
the agony I was in, and many a time wished I was dead and out of the world altogether Oh 'it was
a life of fearful misery, and I pity any poor soul in similar straits. You may rest assured' that I
resorted to pretty well every known treatment in the hope of gaining some relief, but success evaded
all my efforts. My gums, jaws and cheek bones were the parts where the torture principally existed •
but, curiously enough, there were days when one side of my face ached till nightfall 'and then the
pains shifted over to the other side. And, as for sleeD, well, do you think anybody could sleep under
such adverse circumstances? I know I couldn’t; though at long intervals, when Nature could not hold
out any longer, I lapsed into a state of unconsciousness that might be called sleep, and whilst it lasted
I had the worst dreams you could think of.”
“ I don’t suppose you were usually fit to do much work ?”
“ Indeed, I was not; and I was also so low-spirited that I did not seem to care whether I was
ever able to work again or not. Shortly after the neuralgia attacked me I noticed that mv digestion
was getting bad, and so it continued to fail, until eventually my internal organs were so completely
upset that even the lightest of food could not be assimilated. My tongue had a dirty coating and
the taste in my mouth of a morning was most disagreeable—clearly indicating the bilious state I was
m; and another thing that troubled me was my sight—very poor, indeed, sometimes—while
my eyes felt twice their proper size and as heavy as load. Between my shoulders I had more
pains to bear, and I ached so much across the loins that it was painful to walk even a short
distance. But you’ve no idea of the fearful state of nervousness I got into—used to give little
jumps and twitches as though I had St. Vitus’ dance sometimes, and the unsettled frame of mind I
was in gave rise to much mental misery also. Simple matters irritated me, and caused undue excite
ment, and I tell you candidly I couldn’t find a moment’s peace or happiness anyhow.”
“ After so much ineffective treatment how did you manage to get well again
“This way. Anew customer came to the shop one day, and seeing how'll! I ‘was said ‘ Did von
ever try Clements’ romc ? Well, try a bottle, it won’t break you ’; and at last 1 did for which I
am devoutly thankful Oh ! it was like something you read about in a novel, the wav Clements’
Tonic served me, but it was a joyful reality, nevertheless. To think that I had suffered for years
and only then had got a remedy to do me good was something to be thankful for and I was too’
Why, Clements’ Tonic began to soothe my nerves when I had only taken two or three bottles’ and
you couldn’t credit the amount of ease it had given me already. It roused the weakened energies of
my system and stimulated my appetite to such a degree that before long I was eating as well as
ever—when the neuralgia had entirely gone. Of course you can guess how thankful I was It is
also in regard to indigestion that Clements Tonic is deserving of recognition at my hands for that
was, after all, one of the principal things from which I suffered. Yes, my last remedy fairly opened
my eyes as to what medicine really can do when it is of the right kind, for in spite of everything else
failing, Clements lonic set to work and put me right in no time. A few weeks use of it made such
an altered man of me that I had nearly forgotten what it was like to get uo feeling half dead with
weariness My breath was sweet, and I had no unpleasant taste in my mouth of a morning •mv eves
were bright, and the sight good. I slept soundly each night, every pain had gone. So what more
could any man wish for ? ” °
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ALMOND, of Park-road, Merrylands, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Anstroiio
do solemnly declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that and it I f
and faithfu l account of my illness and cure by Clements 1 Tonic, and also contains my full permission co
publish in any way niy statements-which I give voluntarily without receiving anv payment- an.II make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act
1900 - (Sgd.) HENRY ALMOND. ’
Subscribed and declared at Merrylands, this twenty-third day of September, one thousand nine-vmdrert
four, before me. GEORGE J. i’INLAYSGN, J.P.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENOS
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT
S A LT„’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sn Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hmvo a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, BNQ.,
by J. O. BNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere .
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
C k There's SECURITY in
ARTER’S
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUGH
LIVER
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
V'.


• LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy *
for Coughs a«*d Colds. O! 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &c.
COAGULIEME.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHART[CUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade M irk of Ivay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Col Is.
sdf
For Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
OF m
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
THE BALLET GIEL
sd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Looks and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE T RIA * !
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with y ur nam
and we will arnnge to forward one of our
latest impr red high grade Ei.EC.TkIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and com: dote ever invented.
It wil l cure al l cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, a.id stomach Complaints, Nerv us-
i ess, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
>jj i 5a*6 men 5ir>
to each per
son writing
to us one copy f our beautirully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
de'ay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day
The Dr, Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. VIQ.
Please mention this paner.
IMPERIAL
OlHtMEHt
3 CUBES '
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
AMQPft by Dr Langston's Perfect
UUKCU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town ip Australia
sent with my Valuable Book—
“RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY A CURE”
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
,29 COLLINS ST., 1E5IE0UIUTE
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6cl; Posted, 8d.
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each lioor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Propiuktor.
fs
The Ideal Beverage
r for weather extremes, N
Cadbury's
Absolutely Pur©
An invaluable food-
drink foryoumg* l old,
at all times c. seasons.
The Standard of Highest Lancet.
n ‘ food"-/)'ealth
4r
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If j our hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4a, 5a ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Raid Patches. Price, 5a ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND Tor ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND ,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious ASections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’g
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
df
«*s&r
I
-s
W'
if
GET STRONG
If you don’t know how,
ask your friends ; read
the papers ; note the
men who have been ill,
and got well again ; in-
vestigate for yourself,
and you will find the
reply from all genuine
sources is CONSULT THE
PHYSICIANS OF THE
Oft LANtiS I ON INSTITUTE
Their experience ex
tends over many years
of phenomenally suc-
cessful practice, and
THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURE
Weak, Ailing, and Despondent Men, start the right
way about it to get Cured—go to the Fountain Head
and either write to, or consult personally, the
Greatest Living Authorities on
NERVE, BLOOD, AND SKIN DISEASES.
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS
THE LATEST DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL
SCIENCE —IT NEVER FAILS.
WRITE at once for Dr. Langston’s
Latest Medical Work,
“MENS SANA IN GORPORE SANO”
The Book is written for sufferers to
understand, and points out the way
to a permanent cure. It tells you
what you want to know, and what you
ought to know.
POSTED FREE TO ALL.
THIS M«N KNEW WHAT TO DO.
Read his experience:
Bessiebelle, Broadivater.
Deab Doctob,—l have to state that
I feel splendid. Your treatment has
done me a world of good. There is no
further weakness, and I have no ner-
vous symptoms. lam sending you the
balance of your fee with this report,
and I hereby express my sincere thanks
for the great good you have done me.
Yours truly, EOBT. Til oil SON.
THE
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CONSULTATION FREE. ESTABLISHED 1887.
' When'writing, mention tins pajper.
WHEN
SEASONS
CHANGE
It behoves one to take special pre-
cautions against Chills and Colds
by wearing next the body
AERTEX
CELLULAR. .
UNDERWEAR
Ail garments of underwear, for both
Ladies and Gentlemen —SHIRTS,
PYJAMAS, &c., and the materials
by the yard, stocked by
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRA HAM & CO.
94 King Street, Sydney.
Call or write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST—Post Eree.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
()wtaridg&
v £ung Tonic
to he the WO ULUS CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can biob'lain sd frou
any Chemistor tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
for.
BOSISTOS
“PARROT ai
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
i SUBSTITUTES.
sdf
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cy'le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu' stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.W to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
backed and Delivered Free
'.o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
nnn Second-Hand Cycles
Umakeß - £t to £2.10
good as new, *** ***
Great factory clearance sale at ha!f factory -prices r
EAR*! A CYCLE
taking orders from Sample
machine. Active Agents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily n ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our spec/"/ "ffer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c.. half prices.-
MEAD CYCLE GO. Dep*. 833
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary, avocation. Endorsed by Physicians,
Book and particulars free. Address—
d A S. CRAIG & C 0.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


EDWARDS’
HARLENE
size4s
WARDS'
nia. >
TH|
fOB
FOR
THE
sd
The Great Hair Producer § Restorer
_ The Finest Pressing.— ■
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed,
A Luxury and a Necessity to eyery Modern Toilet,
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6
per bottle, from Chemists and Stores*
95 $ 96, High Holborn, London, w.c. VC
BEST SHEFHBfIMSr
'lO
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
fsd
f
IN BLACK <s; IVORY HANDLES
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE),
iIHS tAOEL IS 6y Rt-GISVRMIOH UMnr’n rnr
i
m
'ftZALGERMAH
HQLLOWCPDUND
fcyrT'Filgi
Imitations - that the lahel 071 the Piazor Gase is exactly as above.
[Wholesale: OSSORNE, GARRETT * Co., London, England,
BRUNSWICK
(House
hold)
ICE MACHINE
sdf
'T'IIE advantages of mechanical refrigeration are daily
I becoming better known and appreciated. It makes
possible the preservation of food products and
supplies pure hygienic ice, and forever does away with
the lodgment of poisonous germs which accumulate in
wood or metal-lined-refrigerators, that become water-
soaked and soggy from melting ice.
The “BRUNSWICK” ICE MACHINE has a
refrigerating capacity of from 2001 b. to 10 tons per day,
or in ice-making capacity from 1001 b. to 5 tons of ice per
day. It is so designed that it can be run with any power
—steam, gas, gasolene, kerosene, electricity, or water-
arid a half horse-power is sufficient to drive the smallest
size. Full and interesting particulars and illustrations
will be forwarded on application to any address.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So,e A^ents > 7^9
Also Sole Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, Cyclone Cates &
Market St., Sydney.
Fencing-, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, &c.
OLDSMOBILE
sd
Oldsmobile 7 h,p, Touring Runabout, £225,
The Oldsmohile is America’s most successful motor car,
nli*eriV^ r ?,?f lva li dpe *' ,ectly^ui l fc ’ S 0 durable and reliable, that it has successfully accom-
,iti,ii,ous tHai •* -«*• <*>«*■*
oneratio.. 6 m^nir a ) ,apte 1- f -°, r , USe this CoUntr .V. because of its construction, economy of
its ample ’power simplicity (repairs cost practically nothing- with intelligent handling), and
renJrkah?l < blw°hi.!n 0 1 »^« i " gr Ru ™ boufc « rea,l .v "'orth twice what it costs-and is sold at a
ininiimim cost* Rlloe ’ because we know how to produce the highest automobile efficiency at a
Investigate the merits, and save money by owning an Oldsmohile
Railroad fnspeS “ 01dsn,obile line of Runabouts, Touring Cars, Delivery Cars, and
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich., U.S.A.
AGENTS •
MOTOR GARAGE OF SYDNEY, Limited,
GRBERT GARRATT
. PHILLIPS
GAUT
Directors.
253 Elizabeth St*, Sydney.
V
IS, . /
r (
sr
It'!)!l It
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests,.
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loadedwithblack
or smokeless powder,
l
j 1 are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power,
j Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
! ! HHi!li!fii!!!ij>i.. br *»geport, conn., u.s.a. I( , infl(
rnvifcs
UjJtam
QifICSgERRSiffIHIEESW
QiLn-ri. lilCtillTiiji
mialQiLijiiffiammit!
roil
oi
aa
Mj?
HOTEL
METROPOLE
■^SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay 4
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s, and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
flexite
PREEN
u
u
— 1
V.
fsd
FLEXItE BLACK
FLEXITE RED
FLEXITE OLIVE
FLEXITE GREEN
METAL PRESERVATIVE
PAlNTS——sa^
Impart a highly lustrous coating, retain their gloss
exclusion g o/ XP ° S . Ure ’ a ? d , eilsure the absolute
exclusion o* moisture and destructive gases.
iron Railings, Ornamental Fences,
Boiler Fronts, Smoke Stacks, Iron
Roofs, Iron or Steel Bridges, Cars,
Trucks, and all Marine Work.
One Gallon covers 600 square feet—nearly double
a ner P m Ce ° f f any ° ther metal P aint —and the color is
a permanent one.
TO BE OBTAINED FROM ALL STOREKEEPERS.
Wholes alb
Aoekts :
E, RICH & GO., LTD.,
SYDNEY &
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1378.
JULY 12, 1006.
Priob 6d.
THE TASK.
Joseph of Birmingham had led a better political life in m y youth I'd feel more confident of carrying this through.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Austral inns, 99
Printed and Published bv William Maoleod of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
JLhe Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Cfnce of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £ l6 0
Half-yearly 013 6
Quarterly ... ### 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiif, Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
1 e fiuiarly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
I low to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
{ana, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is perSOn may not he there: the Tfieial
Spue ltd Not ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
Ihe Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ■■will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ■will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllach anil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson & Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt'. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6gm. x l/dn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
J§z xHefzat.
THURSDAY, JULY 12, 1906.
A COMMONWEALTH MERCANTILE
MARINE.
The report of the Shipping Commission, which
recommends that the Australian Government
should establish its own mail service, conducted
by its own ships between Australia and England,
has caused the Australian Tory press to say things
which are not good to listen to. The proposed
fleet, if established, would not interfere with any
existing Australian or Australasian enterprise—
the only Australian or Australasian lines which
extend outside the coastal business run between
Australia and Maoriland, to Canada, to England
round the Horn, and to the South Sea Islands.
But the proposed undertaking would interfere
with Private Enterprise—British, French, and
German, but very largely German—and to the
Tory press German private enterprise is better
than Australian State enterprise any day. So the
Tory press publishes massive columns of calcula-
tions to demonstrate that the business can’t possibly
pay, which figures may, or may not, be correct.
Most probably they are incorrect, but even if they
are less of a lie than they appear to be, the fact
doesn’t matter much. A Federally-owned line of
mail steamers can, at least, be made to pay as
well as a privately-owned one, and if the present
privately-owned ones don’t pay then it is a mean
and dishonest thing to take advantage of the mis-
guided generosity of their owners ; it is better to
run our own line, and stand our own loss till we
learn how to turn that loss into a profit. If it is
necessary to subsidise our vessels at first in the
process of creating an over-sea mercantile marine,
that is no more than many other countries found
it necessary to do—from France and Germany,
which, in modern times, subsidised with cash,
away back to the days when England subsidised
its mercantile marine by State permits allowing
it to practise piracy on the high seas. At all
events the loss incurred in the establishment of a
Federal mail fleet isn’t likely to be much more
than the amount of the subsidy which N.S.W.
paid, in the shape of free newspaper postage, to
establish the Daily Telegkaph, and the end is
much more justifiable.
* * * *
The Shipping Commission, however, after
much investigation, reckons that the service
the U lta b rt 1 a fi? rofitable .u nc l ertakin °> and works out
tne year s figures on this basis :
Cost op Purchasing and Running Eight 12,000 Tons
. mail Steamers.
apital cost—Eight at £375,000 each .. .. £3,000,000
Estimated Revenue—
assengers—379o first-class, at £112.. £424,000
1840 second-class, at £63 115,900
5400 third-class, at £30.. 162,000
Fr Anoo t f Capacity ’ 5650 to »s) average, <01,900
£9°m nnn 3 • out ": ard > at £2 10s.,
Government freight* (huvard) 0 .'.' " Jg®
Subsidi <* sis
__ Total revenue .. i 3iQ ooft
Estimated Expenditure— * * * * * * * *
Depreciation and sinking fund .. 150,000
Interest on capital on nnn
Cost of running .. .. ” " 7 ggg
Insurance .. .. ~ qqq
Office charges (7J% on £760,000) " 57’,000
1,207,000
Surplus £112,900
Against this it is claimed by Private Enterprise,
in the first place, that eight ships are insufficient,
as they would allow no spare vessel to take the
place of one that was temporarily laid up through
accident or otherwise. That may or may not be
correct. Eight ships would be insufficient if their
speed was regulated by the pace of one or two
ancient mariners at the venerable end of the fleet,
but with a fleet composed wholly of fast vessels it
is quite possible that seven ships would suffioe for
regular work, and that the eighth ship would con-
stitute a reserve. But even if nine ships are
required, the cost of the extra vessel would
make a very small hole in the surplus,
it is also claimed that the Commonwealth
couldn t find the money at 3 per cent,
with which to build the vessels, though it is
quite as likely that it could. Certainly the money
could be raised, if the nefarious borrowing device
is resorted to, for much less than the per cent,
which marine Private Enterprise often borrows
at. Likewise, doubts and aspersions are cast on
the alleged income and the estimated outgoings,
but vague aspersions are things that anyone can
cast, in any case, the estimate of the Shipping
Commission leaves a margin of £112,900 a year for
any possible diminution of income or increase of
expenditure, and that is a pretty wide margin, as
things go. Meanwhile, in other ways the Com-
mission has been sufficiently rigid in its estimates,
it allows £150,000 a year for the depreciation and
replacement of afleet of steamers estimated to cost
£3,000,000. That sum, invested at 3£ per cent.,
would build up in 15£ years a fund sufficient to
replace the whole fleet, and no one in his senses
suspects a first-class modern steel vessel of becom-
ing utterly valueless in 15i years. One of the flyers
of the Union Steamship Co. of Maoriland is nearly
25 years old, and it remains something of a flyer to
this day. Also, the calculations of the Commission
allow £150,000 a year for insurance. Presumably
the Commonwealth would maintain its own marine
insurance fund, and the sum allowed provides for
one vessel being completely lost every years.
If nine years elapsed without loss or serious break-
age, the insurance fund, invested at 3£ percent.,
would amount to nearly £1,500,000, and it and
the depreciation fund together would enable
the whole cost of the vessels to be written off.
Last year the great Royal Mail Co., which has
just come into the Australian trade again, after
many years’ absence, only allowed £141,413 for
depreciation on 42 vessels of 165,511 tons, against
the Shipping Commission’s proposed £150,000 on
eight vessels of 96,000 tons; and the Royal Mail
Co.’s allowance for repairs, general maintenance,
insurance premiums, addition to insurance reserve
and an item called “sundry claims” totalled
£140,744, where the Shipping Commission proposes
to allow for a smaller fleet, £150,000 a year for
insurance alone. The Royal Mail Co., after 67
years, only shows an insurance reserve of
£250,000; the Skipping Commission loads its
estimates with an allowance that, with reason-
able luck, would build up a larger fund
in two years. In these directions there is
nothing that looks at all reckless about the Ship-
ping Commission’s estimates. Also, the Ship-
ping Commission reckons cost of running for a
fleet of 96,000 tons at £760,000, against the Royal
Mail Co.’s actual experience of £1,047,000 outlay
for a fleet of 165,511 tons, which seems a very fair
and reasonable comparison.
* * *
The new enterprise would start with one im-
mense advantage over all competitors. There
would be no tail to its fleet. Other companies
began in a small way with small, slow vessels, and
in after years, when they aspired to larger things,
they couldn’t afford to send all the early craft to
the scrap-heap. So they have some fine, swift,
new vessels which are crowded with passengers
and which serve as a splendid advertisement, and
some older ones which are less of an advertise-
ment, and occasionally some very slow and aged
craft which are no advertisement at all. For
years the old Cuzco was the tail of the Orient
fleet, and though it is gone there is still a tail; it
is a long drop, for instance, from the Orontes of 9023
tons to the Oruba of 5858 tons. The Norddeutscher
Lloyd sends along the biggest ships that visit this
country, but from the co.’s prize monster, which
looks like a floating town, down to the Weimar
and Stuttgart, which are smaller than some of the
local coasters, is another long descent. The P.
and O. Co.’s Marmora and Macedonia, of 10,500
tons each, are magnificent—though all the ships
of the proposed Commonwealth fleet would
exceed even them ; but the Marmora and
Macedonia are only two, and the Victoria
and Britannia, of a little over 6500 tons
each, are hardly in the same category. A
new fleet with every ship up to date—with no tail
at all, and with no small or slow or aged vessels
to be avoided or to keep dow r n the average speed—•
would have a great advantage from the beginning.
* * * *
Presumably a fleet is not like a bank, yet when
they are both under Government control they
may both serve as a test of the possibilities of
Government management. Australasia has seen
the Bank of New Zealand become, under State
control, the most brilliant financial success
in its line of business in these parts, after
Private Enterprise had run it miserably and
unutterably on the rocks. It has seen the
Queensland National Bank pulling round under a
system of State audit and supervision v<hen
Private Enterprise seemed to have put it almost
past recovery. It knows that the Government
Life Insurance Department of Maoriland contrives
to run at a cheaper rate and to charge lower
premiums and pay better bonuses than privately-
managed concerns of about its size and age. It
knows that the State only took to building rail-
ways here because of the dismal failure of Private
Enterprise, and where Private Enterprise still
struggles along in the railway business the results
are, in almost every case, poor compared with
those achieved by the State, and even these
poor results are in some cases only arrived
at by State aid in the shape of land
grants. It sees the progress of State land
banks and savings banks. Taking these
things into account, and setting against them the
innumerable failures of Private Enterprise—its
dead and gone railway undertakings, its busted
banks, land hanks, building societies, insurance
companies, steamship companies, &c. —this country
can see no reason why Private Enterprise should
elevate its tail-feathers with such a pitying air of
superiority as it does in the present case. It is
just possible that the Government might prove to
know more about managing a steamship line than
Private Enterprise does, just as in Victoria it
went into the land bank business successfully just
when Matthew Davies, James Muneo, and other
leviathans of finance bad come out of it with
unspeakable failure.
• * * »
Just at present there is no visible prospect of the
Australian flag being carried far over sea by any
great and creditable fleet unless the Government
creates that fleet. To Tories, Jingoes, “loyalists ”
and the like, who vapor in season and out of
season about “the Flag,” the idea of turning this
banner loose on the masts of the finest mercantile
fleet south of the line should have attractions.
Then the new fleet would be another training-
ground for a little group of Australian mariners,
and those Tory individuals who shout discordantly
on Empire Day about the “Boy of the Bullpup
Breed ” should see some charms in that prospect.
In time of war, if the mail ships were cut off from
their regular duties, they might serve for many
miscellaneous purposes in the matter of defence ;
the British Government pays heavy subsidies to
various steamship co.’s for the right to call on
their vessels in war-time, and those subsidies help
materially in making up the co.’s profits,
though the economical Shipping Commission
has not included any naval subvention
in the income of the proposed Commonwealth
fleet. With a monopoly of Government business,
as well as the best chance—by reason of being the
only fleet with no tail to it—to secure private
business, the prospects of the line should be very
good indeed, but, even if they proved, for a while,
less brilliant than might be expected, the practical
consideration of a naval reserve and the senti-
mental considerations of “the Flag” and the
“ Boy of the Bullpup Breed ’’ might fairly be
regarded as equal in themselves to a small divi-
dend, unless all the eloquence of Empire Day is a
foolish jest. There are only two regrettable
features in the Shipping Commission’s report.
One is the suggestion that the original capital with
which to create a Commonwealth mercantile
marine must be borrowed. If this is done it should
at least be stipulated that a large sum shall be
set apart every year out of the Federal
revenue to extinguish the debt, in addition
to the sum provided out of the earnings of the
mail service, so that the Commonwealth may get
out of debt again even more rapidly than it got
into it. As a matter of fact, however, there is no
earthly necessity to go into debt if there was a
strong and enterprising financier at the head of
affairs, but strong and enterprising financiers are
scarce just now. The other regrettable feature
in the Commission’s report is the suggestion that
the fleet should be built in England. Australia
should be a good enough country to do that work
in, and Australia wants shipyards just as much as
it wants ships. This country has just made a new
mail contract to last ten years, and that fact, un-
fortunately, shifts the Commonwealth fleet some
distance into the future. But the delay gives
time to establish the necessary shipyards and iron
and steel works, so that the vessels may be locally
constructed ; and also time to accumulate money so
that they may be constructed without borrowing.
CONCERNING CHINESE COMMERCE.
The Chinese in Australia are at present busy
with the preparation of a memorial to the Prime
Minister representing the “injustice” of present
legislation, directed against Chinese immigration,
and urging its modification in view of the alleged
friendly sentiments of the Chinese nation towards
Australia, and the possibilities of the develop-
ment of an advantageous trade between the two
countries. This is the first step towards an
attempt to coerce Australia, as the United States
was coerced by the recent “boycott” in China.
If—as is surely certain—the Prime Minister
is firm in declaring that there is no possibility
of any modification of the White Australia
policy, the next step will probably be an agitation
in China against Australian goods, and in Aus-
tralian mercantile circles against the legislation
which “ endangers our valuable and growing
trade with Asia.” (In mercantile circles are to be
found men eager to sell their souls, or their
nation, for tuppence-worth of trade). To such a
storm President Roosevelt, in America, recently
bowed, showing that his reputation for
“strength” was fictitious and for foresight a
fraud, since he had not the wisdom to see the
importance of withstanding this first move on the
part of Asia in the coming great racial struggle;
nor the courage to come to a firm decision. Proba-
bly no Australian Government showing such
weakness would survive a month; but the
question is of such importance, and the
influence that can be brought to press
for a wrong decision so great, that the
public mind cannot be too soon prepared to face
this insidious Asiatic peril. Unfortunately, the
men who for “trade” would trade away every
consideration of national honor will have in this
matter a certain amount of semi-official help. The
policy of appointing commercial agents in Asia
shows an evil result (which was freely forecasted),
in the pleas, more or less consciously unpatriotic,
of those agents to make some sacrifice of policy in
order to “foster amicable relations” with Asia.
A commercial agent to Asia naturally wants to
make his post look as important and as profitable
as possible, and, segregated as he is for the time
from Australian sentiment, he is apt to think
that Australia might well allow yellow immi-
gration if it fostered trade. Mr. Suttor, the
New South Wales commercial agent in Asia,
is just now, for instance, strongly backing up
the Chinese plea for a removal of immigration
disabilities. That may not be his deliberate pur-
pose, but it is the clear consequence of his
speeches. Possibly the wily Asiatic is not above
“stringing on” a commercial agent to help his
political plans, one of which undoubtedly is the
occupation—pacific it may be, but the occupation
anyhow—of this continent, and its use as an over-
flow sink for Asiatic population, which is a very
thin population at best, yet is unable, owing to
its incapacity and ignorance, to make a good
living out of its own continent.
* * * *
Chinese experience of the British character
(and naturally the Asiatic makes little or no
distinction between British and Australian ideas)
unfortunately tends to establish the theory
that for the sake of trade we will do any-
thing. It was for the sake of trade that
Britain in 1857 waged the Opium War against
China. Anticipating, by half-a-century, Aus-
tralia’s recent action in forbidding the impor-
tation of opium for smoking purposes, China
had taken the only efficacious means of checking
an evil—which was a more serious threat to its
national life than the tote and the beer-shop are
to this country to-day—by prohibiting opium im-
portation altogether. Britain, which enjoyed the
profits of the opium trade with China, protested,
carried the protest to the extreme of war, and
waged that war with much barbarity—the city of
Canton, for instance, being bombarded for 27
hours, with the result that there was a terrible
death-roll among women and children and other
non-combatants. The Tientsin treaty, following
that war, forced opium on China, and that treaty
has never yet been abrogated, in spite of fre-
quent Chinese requests. It is even now
upheld, in spite of the fact that by treaty with
Japan Britain holds opium contraband as far as
that country is concerned, and that, by specific
legislation, the Australian Commonwealth has
secured a prohibition of the importation within
its borders of opium except for medical purposes.
China has thus been taught the lesson that to a
British people trade interests are paramount —
above national honor and above humanity. Since
for trade Britain perpetrated the iniquity of
forcing opium on China, why should not for trade
Australia agree to admit Chinamen to infect its
population with the stain of Asia ?
» * * #
The only uneasiness probably in the mind
of China as it prepares to use the lever of
trade to move out of the way our White Australia
defences, is the consciousness of the pitiful small-
ness of the business interests to which it appeals.
Australia is asked to sell its national ideals and its
white birthright for a very small handful of copper.
Australian trade with China has always been a
poor little matter. In the year 1900 Australia
sent to China goods of the value of £527,260 but it
was mostly silver. In 1901 the trade had dropped
in value to £128,976. Excluding silver, lead and
copper it wasn’t worth £20,000. In the last year
for which figures are available (1904), leaving out
copper, silver and lead (intaking which China put
us under no compliment for they could have been
sold anywhere else in the world) the whole
Chinese consumption of Australian goods did
not reach £34,000. By taking in copper ingots,
gold specie, silver and lead the figures are swollen
to £330,352, but the real trade for which
Australia had the right to say “ thank you ” —the
consumption of flour, butter, cheese and so on—
was this paltry £34,000. The pursuit of that trade
is hardly worth the sacrifice of a national ideal
and a pure race type. Its loss might be very
easily balanced by a slight increase in local pro-
duction to do away with the necessity of a few
imports. If, for instance, we made our own
whiting (which is only white dirt dug up), wigs
and vinegar, instead of importing them, the
balance would be even. And it is surely within
the competence of Australia to dig up white clay,
to thread hair on canvas for the adornment of the
bald, and to let wine or beer sour into vinegar.
Local manufacture of umbrellas and umbrella
sticks, now imported, would more than balance
the scale. If Australia came to a desperate re-
solve, and made its own sausage casings (the
Australian animal is just as well provided by
Nature as the European or Asiatic animal with
the raw material of sausage-casings) we could dis-
pense with the export trade to China, and be
£lOOO or so to the good. And to make sausage-
casings should not be beyond the intellectual
powers of the Australian.
• » * *
Still, if it were the case that the China trade
was extremely valuable ; and if it wece not a fact
that Australia, with vast local manufacturing and
consuming resources unprotected and undeveloped,
is guilty of brazen folly in chasing foreign-trade
instead of promoting the growth of its own indus-
tries and thus selling its primary products to a
greater extent to its own case for
the Chinese would not be made good. Were it true
that Australia would gain millions in material
advantage by abandoning its ideal of race purity
the bargain would be a bad one. The greatness
of a nation is not to be measured by its revenue,
or its shipping, or its wealth. The happiness of
a people is not to be sought only-in the pursuit of
riches. Through all ages those nations have been
greatest and happiest which set other things
before gold, and those peoples which have set
their feet towards the Temple of Mammon have
come ultimately to decadence and ruin. It would
be an ill bargain for Australia if, to sell
a few sheep, it brought the slant eye and
the sordid vice of Asia to its children. Greed
first brought the negro to America. To-day, the
negro problem threatens the very existence of the
United States, and the hideous crimes caused by
the mingling—and the attempt to avoid the ming-
ling—of the two races are responsible for that
cynical cruelty and shameless corruption which
infect the social and public life of the great Re-
public. A million’s worth of trade, or ten
millions’ worth, would be dearly bought at the
price of consenting to an admixture of Asiatic
blood with ours. It would be the rich, who are
rarely national in their ideas, and to whom,
mostly, Australia is merely a dividend-farm, who
would reap the wealth. But it would be the
workers’ children who would reap the outrages,
and into the homes of the poor that the blood
taint would creep, and into the ears of the humble
that the shrieks of the alien being kerosened at
the stake would penetrate. Australia does not
want the race problem of America—not for
millions.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
N\ S. Wales’ Farcical Politics.
N.S.W. Assembly gave further proof of its utter
incapacity to take a serious view of its responsi-
bilities last week when it loudly cheered a his-
trionic scene, culminating in the resignation of
politicians Holman and Norton. Earlier in the
week Norton made several charges of “ boodling ”
against Holman, and grandiosely challenged him
to a trial of these charges, by tourney in the Coota-
mundra electorate. If he had proposed trial by
hot ploughshares or boiling water, Or by the old
pond method of witch-finding, it wduld have
been just as reasonable, though probably
a good deal more to the satisfaction of
the public, to whom a mediaeval savor of
slightly roasted politician would not be altogether
unwelcome. On Thursday Holman denied the
charges, with virtuous indignation, and accepted
the challenge, and both members marched out of
a cheering House. The public Treasury will now
be put to the expense of two bye-elections ; though
apparently it will have the compensation—if that
is a compensation—of losing one or other of the
persons responsible for the farce. The truth or
otherwise of Norton’s charges cannot be tested
by a Cootamundra bye-election. Neither Judge
nor jury can be empanelled there. The candidate
who cusses most vigorously, or who comes out best
in an intricate bridge or culvert problem, will
probably be returned, and that candidate—by
way of a humorous side issue—may be neither
Holman nor Norton, but a third individual,


_v_ ma i. es n( j charges against either of them. In
case there will be no investigation as to the
menS’the matter in dispute. The whole incident
• „ D itiful bit of political humbug, and the warm
approval it wins from the N.S.W. Assembly jus-
tifies again the sneer that that body is more fitted
by character and tastes to run a d og-fight than
the serious business of a State. If Norton s
charges were put forward seriously—and appa-
rently they were—and taken seriously a,gain
apparently they were—the clearing of the issue
should have been referred to a judicial body em-
powered to take and sift evidence. .Then if
Elolman was shown to be a boodler he might have
been expelled or rewarded, just as Parliament
thought fitting (there is a good deal of doubt as to
Parliament’s attitude on such matters). If
Norton was shown to be a false accuser, then lie
mmht have been expelled, or have received a
large cash grant out of the consolidated revenue-
just as Parliament felt inclined. But the result at
Cootamundra can prove nothing. Cootanmndra
isn’t a judicial tribunal. The election will cost
some money ; involve the waste of much language
that might be better devoted to urging the patient
ox across the Black Soil Plains; and leave things
as they were.
- —♦
A Matter of Class Privilege.
When the Anti-Monopoly Bill was before the
Representatives last week, Victorian member
M'Coll brought forward an amendment pro-
posing to exclude from the definition of a com-
mercial Trust : . .
Any combination of persons engaged in agricultural,
viticultural, horticultural, or dairying pursuits, or in rela-
tion to those industries.
M'Coll’s evident intention, shown by the tenor
of his speech, was to exclude the farmer from
any penalty that might attach to a combine
acting in restraint of trade or practising unfair
competition. Surely no such impudent claim has
previously been made on behalf of any class as
M'Coll made for the farmers and dairymen.
M'Coll would gladly see all other commercial men
made to be honest, but would reserve for the man
who trades in wheat, butter, apples, or wine, the
i hdit to swindle the public or rig the market as he
pleased, without fear of any penalty. It is
astounding to contemplate what rights have been
claimed at one time and another for the represen-
tatives of the “ producing industries ” by their
advocates in Parliament. Here are a few :
(1) The right to loaf on the rest of the community by
ireltinir their goods carried on the railways at far less
than cost, for which concessions other people have to
* (9) Xhe right to repudiate debts, by borrowing State
money and not repaying it.
(3) The right to free gifts of land, by the simple pro-
cess of selecting it, agreeing to pay for it, and not paying.
(4) The right to be dirty, by being free from any dairy
inspection except the slovenly, perfunctory action of
cow-like municipal bodies composed of the farmers theni-
Se '(s) S The right to be fraudulent, by selling butter pur-
porting to be of better class than it is.
(0) The right to ruin progressive neighbors, by spread-
ing fruit diseases as freely as they feel inclined.
(7) The right to swamp the votes of urban residents,
by having more country members in proportion to popu-
lation than city members. , t . ... ...
(8) The right to poison babies, by doctoring nnlk with
IJr (9) 6 The right to sweat, by being exempted from any
wages legislation. .
(10) The right to blackleg, by being excluded from the
operation of any union or union-label law.
(11) The right to harbor disease, dirt, germs, debts,
dishonesty, etc., etc., without any interference from the
law.
The unhappy fact is that many of these rights
have been conceded. Now M'Coll, M. r1.1v.,
proposes that the farmers shall also have the
right to perform with impunity other actions
which are to be crimes when anybody else is
guilty of them. If M'Coll had been on hand
when the Law was given on Sinai he would
assuredly have moved to amend each of the len
Commandments as follows :
Provided always that this section shall not apply to
any farmer, vigneron, dairyman, or horticulturist.
♦
The Freetrade Unemployed Leaders.
“ F.C.” writes : I strolled into I)r. Strong s
Australian Church in Melbourne t’other Sunday
morning thinking the unemployed might cause
the stoppage of the service, as the papers said
they had done at Marshall’s Scotch by ter lan
kirk the previous Sabbath. The doctor had the
tact to acknowledge their presence, not as an
irruption but as a compliment, and, promising
consideration of their troubles afterwards, was
allowed to carry out the service without interrup-
tion. Then he offered such assistance as the
church could give. Tom Mann said they wanted
work. He suggested the making of roads and other
useful, but very slightly reproductive, and wholly
temporary jobs. Fleming followed ; then Ivirk
had his say—and I became utterly weary. All these
are Foreign-traders —Tom Mann especially brought
his incurable Foreign-trade ideas with him from
England after studying the beauties and advan-
tages of his doctrine in the East End of London.
They and their kind are the chief causes of the
present dearth of employment, and now they
would fain have the skilled Yarra-side mechanic
—the man whose mechanical skill raises him to
the dignity of an artist —put to pick and shovel
work on the roads, work that an ox has almost
intelligence enough to do Yet by their own
logic we ought to import cheap labor to make
these roads. The Foreign-trade doctrine of IOM
Mann is that we should not forcibly provide the
unemployed with work at their own trades by
shutting out imports per medium of a Protective
tariff if we can buy the goods more cheaply from
abroad. If that is so, then cheap roads are quite
as essential as cheap boots and cheap machinery.
Unfortunately we can’t import cheap roads,
made by cheap men in England, but we can im-
port cheap men to make the roads here, and then
export them again after the roads are made, and
it will be the same thing. The Mann theory is,
apparently, that the sordid doctrine of cheapness
applies to boots, clothes and machinery, but not
to roads—the Lord only knows why. Thomas
holds that men should not have high-class, skilled,
permanent employment at making things we
want, if these things can be made a shade more
cheaply by cheap foreign nigger or other labor ;
but that they should have temporary unskilled
work of a coarse, ox-like character, m making
roads that, to a great extent, are not wanted—so
that, to that extent, the work will be mere charity
—whether these roads could be made more cheaply
by foreign labor or not. His great theory is to
make Australia a sort of comprehensive work-
house, with plenty of stone-breaking for paupers.
Of course, if imports were checked and abundance
of well-paid work supplied to the unemployed at
their own trades there would be no need for Tom
Mann, once of the Beer and Water public-house
in London, to go round disturbing church services
and demanding aid on their behalf. His import-
ance as an unemployed leader would be gone with
the vanishment of the unemployed. And that
llia y_l or may. not —be a consideration.
Private Enterprise.
[For The Bulletin.]
There is a phrase we all have seen
In print full many a time,
It names a reed on which men lean
To-day in every clime.
On every hand its praises ring,
We laud it to the skies,
Like drowning men to straws we cling,
To Private Enterprise.
The leader-writer spreads himself
Upon the well-worn jest;
He tells no sordid tale of pelf,
Or heavy interest.
He says that “ Commerce waves her wand,”
And “ peace and plenty rise,”
To demonstrate the virtues grand
Of Private Enterprise.
The wilderness is fenced and ploughed,
And blossoms as the rose.
(But trespassers are not allowed
As yonder notice shows.)
Within the one-time empty land
The towns in hundreds rise,
That owe their being to the hand
Of Private Enterprise.
The steamship, and the Pullman car !
The factory ! the bank !
The little luxuries that are
For those of lowly rank.
The poor man drains his pint of beer,
Her tea his helpmeet buys,
Because we do not interfere
With Private Enterprise.
But should we touch that sacred thing
With sacrilegious fist, >
Soon would Prosperity take wing—
Long, long, it would be missed.
The grass on the once busy street
Would speedily arise,
If ought should venture to compete
With Private Enterprise.
Beside the robber Baron’s fire
The minstrels sang their glees,
I think they did not raise his ire
By ill-timed melodies.
They sang his prowess in the fight,
His battered foes’ demise,
And how he slew them by the might
Of Private Enterprise. j
Amid the paeans of the Press,
The plaudits of their peers,
Now move across this age of stress
The modern buccaneers.
With cheque-book bared in place of blade.
In philanthropic guise,
We see them daily masquerade
As Private Enterprise.
Amid the loud huzzas that hail
The Generals of Trade,
Few think of where the wounded wail.
Or where the dead are laid.
The victory for all atones,
The shouting drowns the sighs
Of those who were the stepping-stones
For Private Enterprise.
MAO EXLAND. I AIWA.
♦ —
In the Old Rum Hospital.
N S Wales Parliament House is part of the old
Rum Hospital, the building of which as the price
of arum monopoly was one of the earliest scandals
of Australian history. It was founded on delirium
tremens, and propped up by snakes, and in every
brick there was a curse or a hiccup, or both. At
times—and these times are far from rare—the old
rum fumes seem to get to the head and the
ancient premises go on a jag, with their contents.
Since the present session opened there has been
hardly a day on which some altogether dis-
reputable scene has not taken place, or when
some altogether disgraceful language has not
been used; .and when one member last weelc
appealed to the Speaker pathetically to keep the
Parliament from sinking down to a “pot-house
level,” older members looked at him sadly and
wondered at his ignorance of levels, lhere has
been a steady process of degeneration for many
years in N.S.'W. Parliament. Since Parkes and
Dibbs dropped out of the game, no Premier of real
strength and dignity has reigned, and for many
years the Speaker of the Assembly has been more
or less a weakling-either a pompous weakling
like Abbott, or a mere amiable weakling like
M ‘Court. M ‘Court m ight possibly be an efficient
enough Speaker in adecently-conducted House, but
in the N.S.W. Assembly, where the Government
is either unwilling or unable to give the Chair
any assistance in maintaining order, lie is alto-
gether unequal to his task. So the present level to
which the House has sunk may be well described,
from the words of one of its members, as that of a
pot-house, with some mental reservation as to
whether the comparison isn’t libellous to the pot-
house. Reform can only come from a Speaker or
a Premier with iron will and courage. A brutal y
strong Speaker could flog the House into decent
behavior within a month. A strong I remiei
could insist on a weak Speaker carrying out the
task. But where is the strong man to be looked
for in this N.S.W. Parliament? Apparently the
Speaker’s position will have to be thrown open to
persons outside the House, and then the strong
man could be advertised for and promised a
“ stiddv iob” if he kept peace and order and
showed a decent knovvledge of Parliamentary
procedure.
o-
The American Harvester Trust Again.
The American Harvester Trust is circulating
throughout Australia a pamphlet, • .Blackmailers
Exposed,” which purports to show that the Imple-
ment Age, an American trade journal, designed to
blackmail the Trust, and, failing, entered upon a
series of attacks on itsmethods. As to the statusand
honesty or otherwise of the Implement Age, Ihe
Bulletin does not profess to be able to judge;
but the alleged facts of this pamphlet have an
interest of their own in showing up Ameri-
can business methods. Wherever the truth lies
the American eagle is shown to be rather an
unclean bird, and a very foolish fowl withal. Ihe
correspondence, which the American Harvester
Trust reproduces by plioto-lithograpliy, opens
with a long, type-written letter, dated Sept. 19,
1904 purporting to come from the Implement
Age’ to Mr. John E. Poor. The letter was
allegedly posted from Philadelphia to Mr. Poor
at Battle Creek. The two cities are about 500
miles apart, and a railway journey on the part ot
one of the people concerned to meet the other
would have been a simple matter, and would
have avoided the need of any incriminating docu-
ments. But, in a type-written letter, the Imple-
ment Age is supposed to lay down, in full detail and
with most damnable iteration, a scheme to black-
mail the Trust. Even a very moderate journalist
could haveputthe blackmail scheme into4oo words
The Implement Age’s letter stretches over 2500
words, and contains matter on which to found a
dozen prosecutions. If these are American busi-
ness methods, The Bulletin doesn t wonder that
more than the Beef is found out m that country.
Not satisfied with this one letter, on the same
date the same people write again to the same man
about 1200 words; and again, on the same date
the same people write to the same man about 2UUU
words. In this series of letters the same thing is
said to the same man over and over again, as it to
pile up the evidence. It’s the sort of conspiracy
one meets with in melodrama in this country.
Then on September 22 (the post should have
brought him the letters on September 20) Mr.
Poor, to whom these alleged blackmailers had
been pouring out their plans, replies. He stands
on high moral stilts and remarks that
The propositions are diabolical ... my abilities
are a purchasable commodity but my honor ls above
price. ..I am charitable enough to believe that you
was (sic) not in your normal condition when you wrot
those letters but was misled by some evil hallucination.
The contents of your letters I will hold inviolate.
Next thing those inviolate letters are published
by the Trust ! It’s a curious yarn right through,
and it’s difficult to say on whom the most mud
would be deposited if the whole of it were true.
One certain conclusion, however, is that smart
Yankee business folk ” are sometimes a curiously
silly and wordy set of schemers.
The Girl Behind the Bar.
In quite a number of places there has of late
broken out afresh the old demand for the abolition
of the girl behind the bar. Heaven only knows
what that tidy little vision has done to the hag-
gard and staring brotherhood that seeks her
abolition, especially as most of the brotherhood
claims to be so good that it has never had a fair
chance to inspect her. But the haggard brother-
hood and the wild-eyed sisterhood are desperately
anxious to take away her means of making a crust,
and recently the Lancet (London) came to their
assistance and lent its influence towards depriving
Hebe of her job in this wise :
The vocation of a barmaid is attended by perils from
which young women should, as far as possible, be shel-
tered The long hours of standing and the frequent y -
cessive fatigue are productive of many disorders and of
feefings of malaise, which are only too likely to lead to
the alcoholic indulgence for which many opportunities
arfe afforded while the male frequenters of a drinking
bar are often’persons of loose conversation and degiaded
fhiracter the worst possible companions for Lit G
the likely to lead them astray. If we add to this
that the employment affords no prospects, &c.
Aoart from the humor of “ sheltering a girl
by taking away her billet and leaving her o
struggle with plain sewing, the most interestin
feature of this case is the statement that the bar-
girl should be abolished because her employment
“affords no prospects.” What woman s employ-
ment does afford prospects—unless it be the pros-
pect of getting married, and that often only opens
up the further prospect of being a widow later on,
and taking in boarders? Ihe prospects of the
actress are mainly that engagements will become
meaner poorer, and increasingly hard to get as
she grows old, and the intervals between them
wilJbecome longer and longer, till at last arrives
the final interval, that is all interval, when the
management that gave her a small part in Ihe
Disordered Ghost ” goes off, lea ving the company
unpaid, and no one else wants her services. The
domestic servant sees before her a long succession
of kitchens and “missuses, unless she marries the
butcher boy, and after that her life is mostly all
kitchen again. The millinery girl looks ahead
and descries the brilliant hope of becoming
a millinery woman, and then an old mi
J Tne boarding-housekeeper h» no
prospect except in the grave. Ihe nurse may
marry a wealthy patient with an interesting dis-
ease, just as the bar-girl may marry a wealthy cus-
tomer with an interesting thirsu, and there isn t
much to choose between them. The two girls get
a chance to secure the same man, but the bar-girl
gets the first chance while he is acquiring the dis-
ease the nurse’s opportunity only comes after he
has got it. She gets the bar-girl s remnant so to
soeak To put the matter shortly, every working
Jill's hopes and chances seem to depend on mar-
riage and that means too often only a prospect of
goffig back to the same old job after the divorce
The bar-girl has no special laek of prospects. Ihe
trouble is that every worlang-girl is short of them-
There aren’t sufficient prospects to go round.
The N.S. Wales Lands Scandals.
N.S.W. Minister for Lands Ashton has an-
nounced a courageous policy in regard to the con-
cessions which were got out of the Lands Depart-
ment by the much-advertised land-agency
methods. A large number of the improvement
leases that were improperly granted are to be can-
celled These include leases which were issued
without the approval of theGGovernor-m-Council;ll;
leases which were issued after January
without the approval of the local Land Bo
though that approval was necessary, leases
which were illegally renewed without being
submitted to auction or tender ; and leases which,
whilst granted under technically correct con
ditions embraced land suitable for closer settle-
mentand in respect of which large sums were
naid in land-agency fees. If this resolution is
strictly adhered to-and Mr. Ashton went so far
as to his willingness, if any complex
Questions of law arose, to ask for a validating Bil
Slow justice to be done to the public-it will
be by far the most effective barrier against future
Lands mal-administration. Persons tempted to
seek improper concessions would have a practical
warn ng that, even if successful, they might in
the future the benefits of their roguery
wrested from them. . Ashton is
a verv large proportion of land Suitable tor closer
agricultural settlement will be found among the
improvement leases improperly granted, but
there is clear evidence that those leases embraced
much land fit for better things than
lease tenure. Else why the eagerness of the
lessses’to secure the areas and to
to land agents for the privilege. The
would like to see every lease secured by Hud
agency ” methods annulled. That would be bu
hare justice ; and it would represent a most use-
-1 ful warning. .
Tommy.
“L.E.” writes from. Victoria: —
What’a the odds so long as he does the work? ToArar
Bent is like a batsman who piles up a solid score in a
rough, rude way. He lashes the pohtica l leather afl over
the heath, sometimes out of the ground. Most politicians
fill the vacant crease with great elegance paying and
attention to pads and gloves and spotless flannels, take
careful block, assume a graceful attitude, and the" con
pile a large, dignified duck. Dignity, of a political kmd,
can be bought anywhere for 2d. a ton , but Graft
than a cow in a Chicago sausage. , . leathers
Who cares whether Tommy wears verbal patent leathers
or bluchers as long as he gets s °!“®wher • ,
sessions he has passed 117 Acts. Water Sunervi-
Closer Settlement (an attempt, anyhow), MWk Super
sion Act, Pure Poods Act, Mines Act lament. .to the
University (especially for miners and ngncultunsts) etc.
That’s not a bad score. Tommy has been a capabie Trea
surer. He sits heavily on the Treasury chest. He has
been one of the first Premiers since the Stone t
promote sound finance. When he went into '
there was an accumulated deficit of
Carter bonds (issued in aid of revenue) outstanding,
£100,000; revenue owing the Licensing Act * >
£2O 000; revenue works and services charged to ,
about £240,000 per annum ; and £ l6 o,ooo*as requir
put the railways into decent order. Bent had to hustle to
creased each year-decreases totalling in all £I,9O£MX)O.
And the revenue surpluses am o untto£l,72L,ooo. ow,
at June 30th, 1900, the deficit of £2,256,000 has been re
duced to £1 459 000. The Carter bonds have oeen
redeemed. The moneys borrowed from the Licensing Fund
(for charity) have been repaid. Kevenue has taken ove
certain expenditure properly chargeable'thereto, but
which in previous years was charged to loans. Bent hows
on to the income-tax with both hands. He is reducing
the public debt. He floated his last renewal loan l °e al *-7
instead of abroad. The railway management could have
been much worse. In 1902-3 there was a deficit o
£365,000 in meeting interest charges. This year wm
show a change for the better of about £<oo,ooo. Cn tne
whole? it doesn’t matter whether the operator is called
Thomas Bent Esq., or Tommy, or even Cabbage. He
m Tl?e Licensing Bill will be his next big effort. He will
introduce local option, increase the license fees, make it
an offence to buy as well as sell liquor during prohibited
hours? abolish*‘locked ” bars, bring clubs under the Ac
and get a solid hammerlock on Haccuus geneially.
Anti Gambling Bill will be something in the nature of an
insult to the great god Horse aud a
Tote The Separate Representation Act will be repeaieu,
and public servants become proper citizens once more.
Other proposals are children’s courts ’"determinate sen-
tences, a Small Holdings Bill by which £75,000 a, j ear for
three years will be spent on blocks andimplemei t *
estabhshment of anefficient Labor Bureau and a Com-
uulsorv Voting Bill and Exhaustive Ballot Bill.
P Rent calls himself a “ Safe Socialist.” If he isn’t dig-
nified he’s forceful and if he can’t skate on one leg he can
battle. The Labor party should and would hold office in
Victoria if it had anything of Bent S weight. But it s
leaders this State is better served by a big, fat, undigni
fled, loud-voiced, hustling, hard-grafting person called
Tommy.
The Queensland Land Boom.
Apropos of the rush of farmers to Queensland,
rifis from the annual “Report of Government
Statistician on Wheat Statistics for 1905, is a
severe enough shock to make one sit down and
th There"Tvere approximately 177,000 acres sown with
wheat in 1905, of which 40,000 failed completely, and
15 000 were cut or grazed as green forage.
Reckoning only half of those 15,000 acres that
were “fed off” as a failure (though no doubt
practically the whole of the area was fed
because it was hopeless for wheat), we hav<a at total
of 37 per cent, of the entire cultivated area w hich
failed utterly. Of the area that was reaped the
average was'!)’s3 bushels. (And in this connec-
tion people who are looking up district yield
with P a view to land settlement had better
paste up in some handy place m their .brain,
the fact that wheat yields are usually given as
“per acre reaped”—which, in a droughty dis-
trict where crops often fail entirely, and are not
reaped at all, isn’t the same as “ per acre sown
by a long chalk.) This Queensland average of
9’53 bushels per acre reaped was exceeded by the
Downs, the principal wheat-growing district ;
but the Maranoa yielded only 2’65 bushels - and
the Maranoa is the district to which those
southern farmers who are not content to pay the
ridiculous prices demanded by the Downs land-
lords are mostly looking. It was in this district
that the largest proportion of absolute failures
occurred ; so the average yield per acre on which
the farmer spent labor and seed is somethin*
to feel sad about. There, no doubt, are districts
suitable for wheat-growing in Queensland ,
but, at the best, it is a precarious business.
Even in the most enthusiastically boomed dis-
tricts, where fancy prices are being got for land,
very little confidence can be felt about the re
«nlts Last year, for instance, in Allora the
average was 15’20 bushels, while in Clifton right
alongside, the average was only 971 bushels. A
stiff graduated land-tax would do a good deal to
prevent such an absurd and dangerous spring in
the price of supposed farming land as has occurred
in Queensland ; but that tax is not available.
Even with it, it would be easily possible, in the
present temper of the people, to P a y ridioukms
prices for land for wheat growing. Without it,
the wheat-grower must either pay a dangerous
price for Downs country (dangerous, because the
results even there are erratic) or go out into the
Maranoa, where last year’s average for the crop
that was worth reaping was only 2 65 bushels to
the acre, and where a large proportion of the cul-
tivated area wasn’t even worth reaping at all.
♦
Maoriland’s Martial Array.
Thus a Maorilander . .
Maoriland suffers from spasmodic attacks of patriotic
fury and, when under the influence of the complaint, it
rushes to the cable and orders anew gun to stave off the
intruder who may desire a transfer of the country and
the country’s robust debt. By the time the new iron-
mongery has arrived, Maoriland is convalescent, and the
new gun is emptied out of the dray on to a hillside,
where it makes a convenient breakwmd for the swaggie
Before the howl for Boer blood had died away, M.L.
discovered that it had several ex-farm-burner officers who
wanted nice, highly-decorative jobs. M.L. met the
difficulty of appeasing the thirst for gore, and gave
the “veterans’’ jobs by making every schoolboy a
potential soldier. This was easy. A Glengarry cap
and a piece of firewood with a hole in the thin
end transformed the male school-children into
Force Cadets.” The kiddies defend the country with the
firewood and fight pneumonia by standing around the
streets in mud to salute imported millinery, to escoit
KingSEDDON, or to demonstrate violently because Iriseo
isearthu naked. The kiddies’ schoolmaster, who is also
the kiddies’ officer, is in the habit of receiving de-
spatches” from Headquarters telling him to call a parade
at any hour of the school day, and the infant conscripts
are draped forth into the highways whenever the spirit
moves the chief millinery experts. School work is
stopped, on an average, three times a week and the
ghtterdragged from its box. In the meantime the
schoolgirl is pegging away at her lessons and scoops the
gdUedged volume at the finish. Maoriland is conse-
quently asking in a loud voice the reason for the success
of <drls The sinecurists in charge of this armless ai my
say that it doesn’t matter whether the infants have guns
nr firewood. They are learning to defend their patch of
scoria. They are learning discipline. The fact that they
learnt discipline before cadets were thought of, and that


[>»
-ttrzr
v\
wo
*?
n*r
fisjrmy
for o cab
Kim dant
he. is d
JURE of
rtT
T»r 3=>
RK
sides il- is rr\>/
BACCO M
ars
amt
o
MA O e. «rs
BELFAST Sold
AU L. OV E.R. TH E;
WOK.LX>
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 4S samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, IQ/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
Prize Scheme for 1906.
J 0250 in Cash Prizes
RANGING FROM£S DOWN TO 5/-
to Collectors of Outside Wrappers
from Caillers Chocolates.
J 062.10.0 .EACH QUARTER
McH3I^,JuNE3OT?,SEP3OTq,DEcIS™
ALL SIZES,I?INCLUDED, ARE VALID.
your Wrappers to
(cu£ce<r'j>a> p.0.80x/36, Sydney.
gafetrate” l hasn’t occrred
in the Vtafeyand U e! thl h e h “ ndre<i h <™ses
dates its thirst for hlnoH ", e , lse ' vhere b ‘ Africa, and
return of the khakeroes T m , bulbon braid from tlie
military ardor has however, the adult
was mud-bathing in VolcanolanTth y ' ti Col Kitohenbr
stopped long enou<di to notfo 0 d fl h .° ther day > and he
ference of the uniformed !S i tb f heavy-footed indif-
Monkey to come and fncvT- 6r the threats of the
cated compulsory serWce-modifl U d Kitcu ? ner adv °-
satd service not to interfere »■ ! conscription—the
of the conscrint Kit™™" 'th the ordinary avocations
least importance to the fact that® e y did, i’ t a ‘ tach the
conscript, who had been tauo-h} S( / hoolboy "as a
the sight of gold braid to Juln ! )> to attention at
soldier with a clothes-’nron “ I SU| r Sed t 0 be a
the necessity of having if U f rAod K t TCUEN - E 1 em Phasised
Kitchener to look after Hie a emid° d , man like
firewood, and to consider fh» h f d l n 'Y lfcb tbe ineff ective
aysra
be much as they are novv. “ th St te 8 P ros P ects would
shouWer its y aggregate Tun
him iv®** » “ e b uu pi there is one), and cet to
sa
srsrir.c! 1 «!"” ssitaSM
ignorant burgher, ’ that the man who can make i ' rest
success of acitfze 1 j ° b iS most like >y man to make a
it savs ft feels Am'!’ that countr y will feel as safe as
it sajs it feels. At the present time M.L calls mil-
linery, whoop, and firewood, defence.
Onk of the ghosts that begin to haunt T. Bent,
fstheMnlw n d n ee h T t 0 a shiv ering skeleton,
Wul mlf Ye f 1 ; 1 Ea . llwa 7 —which doesn’t go to
and it finish e lrt ? d l ] , Uat “ front of an Section,
and it finishes at a bull-ant’s nest near the Tyers
River, and it cost 40,000 red sovereigns. Wal-
halla reckoned the line was a sure thing when it
was started, and fulfilled every condition in regard
flviff ra, ! way . trust - Now, when it reads of Bunt
yin.g about in a State motor-car and singing
comic songs Wall ml la smashes the furniture and
beats its wife. The only satisfaction a recent de-
putation got when it stated its grievances was
that if it wasn t quiet and civil, he (Bent) would
tear up the rails and lay them somewhere else.
Meantime, Bent seems to be tapping the Walhalla
mining co. s to see if he can’t squeeze out some-
i-^any case > though there was mighty
little justification for beginning the line, there is
less for hanging up things where they are. Either
the line should be torn up or it should be finished.
George Reid, the Anti-Sosh Apostle, struck
xSananaland at a rather inopportune time, for he
round the otate in holts with a number of mono-
polies and crying out for State Socialism in many
directions. Not to be backward, however, Yes-
,° justified his reputation by including in his
platform of 17 planks—the first of which was “a
vigorous fight with Socialism ” —six more or less
Socialistic bits of timber. He wants to introduce
Australian products into the world’s markets ; to
encourage immigration; to establish a Federal
agricultural bureau on the plan of that of the
u.S.A. ; to take over the Northern Terri-
tory, and people it with assisted immigrants
brought in by the State; to establish a court of
conciliation as a prelude to compulsory arbi-
tration; to provide for voluntary preference
by law. The balance are mostly meaningless
phrases, excepting the one which proposes to sink
George s beloved fiscal issue. A number of dis-
appointed Tory Bananalanders are asking with
great indignation, “Where does the Anti-Socialism
come in?” Amidst this clamor, the sugar
farmers are demanding that the Australian
Government shall take over the C.S.R.
Co.’s mills and refineries in Australia; the
dairy people ask that the State Government shall
exercise more State interference in the matter of
butter; the fruit men siiy that the State must
assume control of the shipping ring which treats
their perishable produce as if it were coal or
wood; there is a cry that more aid should be
given to test the deeper levels of goldfields which
monthly show vanishing returns; and so on.
George has said nothing so far which has
induced the Queensland Government to close
up the State-owned dry dock at South Brisbane,
or to abolish the municipal fish markets, or the
Agricultural Bank, or the system of free passes to
unemployed, or any of a dozen things of that sort.
♦ :
A.fter exhaustively pumping miners, managers,
directors, Government experts and railway boss
Tait, during many months, the Vic. Coal Mines
Commission reports that it finds the charges made
by Labor member Lemmon practically proved.
In brief, “ the general conditions of employment
are unsatisfactory ; the ventilation of the mines is
ineffective and deficient; certain strike leaders
are still boycotted by the mine managers, pre-
sumably under the instructions of the directors ;
the ruling wages are inadequate for the nature of
the work ; and the conditions at the Coal Creek
Mine are exceptionally unsatisfactory.” The Com-
mission recommends—the appointment of a Board,
somewhat on the lines of the Wages Boards, to
frame conditions, terms and rules of employment,
f, c° arl, l trat ® between managers and miners:
the fixing of a minimum wage of not less than Bs.
and. per 8-hour shift; the strict enforcement of the
provisions of the Mines Act, ’O4, as to drinking,
water and changing-houses; that preference of
employment be given to men who have purchased
ownship blocks ; that the sanitary conveniences
in the mines be improved ; that a bonus of 6d. a
ton be paid for five years to companies producing
f pe f n o e * lt ’,'S or ® their average production
from 98 to 02, the said bonus not to be paid on
any quantity over the 20 per cent. ; that the Vie.
railways shall pay 12s. 6d. per ton for best and
-Us. Od. per ton for second-best coal during the
next five years ; that the companies be compelled
o reserve 10 per cent, of their net profits for ex-
ploratory development work; that an indepen-
dent board be appointed to test the relative
commercial values of Victorian and N.S.W. coals;
and that no higher railway freight than id. per
ton per mile be imposed. The recommenda-
tions are noteworthy, especially the one suggesting
a Wages and Arbitration Board. It will be inte-
lestmg to watch what happens to this report.
Ihe inquiry was due to a Labor member, and
i atman doesn t love Labor members any more
than he loves Wages Boards; but, on the other
ver y £T°°d Tories are mine-owners, and
the 12s. Od. selling-price for coal and the 6d. a ton
bonus would cheer them up greatly.
By way of a casual side-light on the folly of those
people who want to import somebody, whether he
be an Archbishop or a Railway Commissioner or
a Meteorologist, whenever there is a vacancy, on
the ground that no mere Australian or Australian-
trained man can possibly be worth anything,
oydney Telegraph recently received a curious
letter. It was from the official Weather Prophet
of loronto (Canada), and the Weather Prophet
stated that the Sydney Observatory’s weather
map, as published in the ’Graph, was the best
thing of its kind he had ever seen, and he wanted
to know how to do things like it. Now, Toronto
is close up to the United States. The U.S.
weather system has been so much boomed that
there has been a demand for the importation of a
U.S. weather-liar, who knows nothing about Aus-
tralian conditions, to run the Federal show here ;
yet in this matter Sydney’s ill-paid, one-horse
show seems able to reveal to the Toronto man
something he never saw before. Apropos of
which, the late Ralph Abercromby, of England,
vvho was considered a boss meteorologist in his
time, wrote this in his “Seas and Skies” (page
oo.J) about imported weather prophets :
The most successful forecaster in England would be a
failure in Japan till he had learned the nature and wavs
of Japanese weather and cyclones, and the best man in
Tokio would be useless in London.
The same sort of thing might be said about the
imported water-engineer who hasn’t a ghost of an
idea how absolutely permanent-looking Australian
rivers are liable to dry up ; and the imported rail-
way expert who can’t understand that the district
which looks this year as if it was worth a railway
may have practically no traffic for the next five
years, except water carried free and starving stock
carried on tick.
«.
Last week, an Australian fuse-maker gave the
•tariff Commission further illustrations of Austra-
lia s folly arid the ‘ Foreign-trader’s treachery
“ When we had a duty,” said he, “ of Id. per coil
on fuse, we used Australian-grown jute, and very
good jute it was. When the duty was removed,
we had to go to the cheapest market, and now I
get all my yarn from iJundee. ” As to powder for
fuse-making: “There is a powder combine in
England, and I am unable to get an ounce of
powder there. I managed to get a little from
Germany, but was ultimately stopped there also.
Now two Continental firms are supplying me
temporarily. . . . The ring will supply powder
from England for other purposes, but not
for fuse-making. I went to the local repre-
sentative and put the sovereigns for 20 tons on
his table. He cabled to England, and the
answer was cabled out, ‘ Will not supply.’ ” The
witness produced letters supporting his charges
a,gainst these precious .Free-traders. Also he swore
that a Californian fuse company is sending hither
fuse made by Chinese labor. Finally, he threw
this at the Anti-Australian Foreign-traders and
Foreign-trade Laborites : “When the Government
asks tenders for fuse it stipulates that local manu-
facturers must pay a minimum wage and work
their employees 48 hours only. The foreign
manufacturer is not subject to these conditions.”
There lies the point. Any Labor representative
who advocates a minimum wage and a 48-hour
system, yet refuses adequate Protection to the
employer, is either deliberately forcing his fellow-
worker out of employment, or he is practising
deliberate treachery to those who elected him.
If there be any answer to this charge, it is full
tune some “Freetrade” Laborite made it.
_ «
Tesla Studios, Sydney, has grouped all the
barristers of Sydney into a presentation picture
for the Attorney-General. The photographs of
the men in their gowns are all very fine, and the
general impression is of a lot of sleek crows, with
their best bibs on, assembled for a meal of Costs.
Anti-Sosh Reid declared at Bundaberg
(Q.) that the proposals of the Socialists were so
nonsensical that he felt he was discussing a circus
when they were mentioned. Which caused a thin
man to rise and ask : “Are you aware that far-
mers are being crushed by the C.S.R. monopoly?”
To which the visitor replied : “If so, I will crush
the C.S.R.; Company.” This threat of Govern-
ment interference hasn’t made the local Em-
ployers’ Federation feel any better towards
George.
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ With Plying Colors.”
Criterion “Carmen.”
Her Majesty’s “On the Quiet.”
Tivoli Rickards' Co.
Palace Theatrescope Co.
Lyceum Macdermott’s Biograph and Pro-
fessor Scott.
Prince Alfred Park .. Bostock and Wombwell’s Circus.
Town Hall Marie Narelle.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Man from Mexico.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Squaxv Man.”
Theatre Royal.. ...... “ The Assassin.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Fitzqerald’s-buildino.. Axemen’s Carnival.
■ '■-»
■‘On the Quiet,” in which a new and
attractive American comedian made his first Syd-
ney appearance at Her Majesty’s last Saturday,
is a farce with an obvious ambition to be some-
thing better. During the whole of its first act it
tries to be a comedy, and to carry itself through
on a dialogue which sparkles moderately. In the
second act it comes to the conclusion that
it is not, after all, in the light-weight class,
but is really a “feather,” and acts accordingly.
Wildly conflicting characters are herded into oppo-
site rooms, whilst wildly conflicting statements
pursue one another through the mazes of false-
hood. A nigger is kicked soundly and often.
Various people cake-walk with the breakfast
dishes. Chairs are upset. The chief comedian
bursts his collar, and we know that this is Farce.
In the third act “ On the Quiet ” seeks to struggle
back into a comedy vein—at least the uproarious
farce element is forgotten, except for one slight
suggestion that somebody is going to be sea-sick.
It is—for this act —comedy, not farce. Probably
“On the Quiet ” would be a more popular piece if
it flung away its ambitions, and kicked niggers
and cake-walked in all three acts; still, as it
stands, it is a likeable story with much real
humor of the dry American type. Butin the last
act the travesty of the marriage service by
Collier should bo cut. Marriage is a serious thing
in this country, whatever it may be in Dakota,
U.S.A.
* * * *
As to the new company it lacks only
a magnetic woman to bring it near perfec-
tion for this class of work. Collier, who
suggests Nat Goodwin with improvements, has
a sharp, slick, cocktail sort of humor which,
like an insidious drink, grows on one. In
John Barrymore (as Hyde Ogden), and Grant
Stewart (as a massive British Duke in old oak with
stuffed leather mountings) he has two skilful
allies, and a fine pair of character sketches are
those of John Saville as a philosophic old judge
with some good lines, and George Nash as
McGeachey, a humorous tough. But, whether
from lack of opportunity or otherwise, the women
do not shine. Miss Mabel Taliaferro has one wee
little chance to score when she talks, in A sharp,
to the massive British Duke, but it’s the solitary
occasion when any one of the women concerned
matters at all. As the Collier season is limited to
four weeks, “On the Quiet” can only be pre-
sented for a few more nights.
** * *
The naval melodrama, “With Flyino
Colors,” will supplant “In Sight of St. Paul’s”
at Bland Holt’s Sydney playhouse (the Royal)
this week. “With Flying Colors” is already
familiar to this city, but Will stand a revival,
especially if, as is strictly improbable, Bland Holt
freshens the dialogue with some remarks about
lame ducks. Somehow or other, ip Australia, the
navy is a good deal more associated with lame
ducks than with flying colors.
* i * . * *■
Magician Czerny and the biograph pictures
of the Frisco quake vanish from Sydney Criterion
at the close of this week ; and next week there is
said to be a definite purpose on the part of an
amateur organisation to play “Carmen.” It
requires courage to tackle “Carmen”; and
courage, fortunately, is given' by Heaven to
amateurs as well as ln fact, it
sometimes happens that the amateur has more of
it than the other fellow, and will put on a show
that the professional wouldn’t be seen dead with
—unless he were driven to associate with it by
actual plain hunger.
-M * -& *
Just as a door is not a door when it is ajar,
so a circus is not a circus when it is Bostock and
Wombwell’s. Inside the two big tents that are
now erected in Prince Alfred Park (Sydney) there
is neither ring nor track. The centuries-old spec-
tacle of a woman in pink fleshings skipping about
the back of a hog-fat horse cantering round a ring,
has vanished like the ring itself. Instead there is
a stage, and on it things are not what they seem.
It is a world of its own, where gravitation
has gone to sleep, and while it snores a
man rears a ladder upright and runs up
and down it, pausing on the summit to play a
concertina; Mona Clare reels through dances
like the formless goblin of a dream ; and the
Pastor Brothers give a performance that is partly
acrobatic and somewhat musical. The Human
Ostrich swallows charcoal, pebbles, lumps of coal,
flaming petroleum jelly, and somewhere about a
gallon of water. When this amazing concoction
has got nicely mixed down below, gas is said to
result, and the Ostrich, applying a match to his
mouth, suddenly breathes off smoke and flame.
The star performance is, however, where a
Japanese girl walks with bare feet up an
inclined rope to the top of the tent.
She gets her leverage by gripping the rope with the
thumb of each foot and the next toe, and slowly
hauls herself to a giddy eminence—then, balancing
herself on the hollows of her insteps, she shoots
downwards without a balancing pole or any other
device to keep her on the track. On Saturday
night, the audience held its breath—for Miss
Jappv slipped, and, toppling off the rope, she
caught it with her hands, and swung spas-
modically for a moment, and then dropped
into the arms of a burly Jap, who had run
to catch her. Perhaps it was all on pur-
pose and for the sake of effect, but it looked
amazingly real—as real as anything else on
that weird stage. Then Miss Jappy climbed the
rope once more and did the trick without mis-
adventure. One of the weird items that does not
transpire till Thursday next is a hypnotic demon-
stration. Professor Bonner will mesmerise Mr.
S,, C. Williams, who will, blind-folded, drive a
Committee of pressmen and others through the
streets to where the committee has previously
secreted an article. After that he will be
again mesmerised and put to sleep in an
underground tank without food or water for
five days and nights. A cylinder will command
a view of his head and shoulders, and through it
the public can see him at any hour of the day or
night. But to come back to the circus, or rather,
the menagerie. The collection of animals and
birds is good. Some of the lions look as though
they had just stepped out of Landseer’s
paintings. The tigers are superb—one just
aches to make mats of their skins. There,
caged in lonely magnificence, the Sunday-
school child may consider the beetle-browed
chimpanzee, and see what sort of creature man
was when he first began to be educated in the
higher branches. A sea-lion splashes round his
tank and eats fish before the eyes of the audience,
and the audience seems to enjoy the eating even
although the fish do not. All that is wanted to
make things complete is the original Stinking Fish
in a tank.
** * *
The Hunting of the Snark is not in it
with the Chase for the Wig, now rushing along
at the Palace Theatrescope. A lady’s toupee is
carried from her head by toy balloons, and half
the country seems to be a starter for the capture
of the trophy. San Francisco before and after
the ’Quake maintains the popularity of its flicker-
isliness.
*# * *
Mr. Gerard Kean, the newly-discovered
tenor, who is to send Caruso back to Milan to
sell peanuts, has been making Brisbanites skip
like the rams of the flock with appreciation of his
voice. The soggarths of the city gave him a purse
of sovereigns to help him along towards his
European studies. At Toowoomba and Brisbane
he cleared £550, and broke all local records for
takings at the doors. At the Cathedral he sang
“ Alma Redemptoris,” and a section of the female
congregation flung themselves on their knees
and wept in his triumphant path. He wrote his
autograph 700 times, and signed his photographs
at a shilling a sign ; and gave a shilling-pop fare-
well, at which 1200 people were seated by 7.30.
Now he is stretching his throat for a burst of song
at Sydney Town Hall on Wednesday (25th). Mr.
Grimm and Mr. Southwell are running business
matters for the gifted Victorian.
* -* * *
At the Lyceum, in Pitt-street, Macder-
mott’s cinematograph show continues to draw
good houses with its ’Frisco ’quake views. There
are exactly five Bio. shows displaying ’Frisco
films to Sydney at present. Saturday sees the
last of the Fisk Jubilee Singers at the Centenary
Hall, York-street. They are among those who
have been showing ’Frisco ’quake films. The
’Frisco ’quake seems to have been arranged for
cin. purposes.
** * *
At Sydney Tivoli the same star turns
twinkle as during last week, but most of them
have fresh items. The popularity of Little Cliff
is abiding; and the excellent sketch work of
Blake and Granby seems to improve with new
opportunities. Miss Lilieth Leyton has another
comedietta, but Brinn balances the same gun,
which obviously isn’t as heavy as it tries to look.
** * *
Heine told Berlioz, after hearing the “In-
fancy of Christ,” that his Oratorio was “a perfect
bouquet of sweet flowers of melody and a master-
piece of simplicity.” After which fragrant sen-
tence it is hard for common place critics to do any-
thing but act up to the proverb about “silence
being golden.” Certainly the calm of interested
attention caused the Philharmonic Society’s con-
cert last week to appear a trifle lifeless. It was the
first performance of the Oratorio in Australia, and
Roberto Hazon put his soul into the work of inter-
preting the simple rural story of the flight into
Egypt of Mary, Joseph, and Jesus. A delightfully
sweet tone picture was the result. Maud
Thackeray was a surprising success, singing with
timid simplicity, and suiting the character exactly.
The chorus, the soothsayers of Herod, the angels,
Romans, Ishmaelites, and a motley group of All
Sorts and Tweenies helped a magnificent perform-
ance of the famous work.
“THE SQUAW MAN.”
This is the tale of an English Jim
Who took up his cousin’s Shame,
For his cousin’s wife was more dear to him
Than the precious Family Name.
The Family Name needed saving-, of course
(The cousin, in short, was an earl),
But not for the Name did Jim suffer the blame—
He was chiefly concerned for the girl.
He’d have laid down his life for his relative’s wife,
Being awfully fond of the girl.
Poor Jim ! He abandoned his Family pride
And bought him a ranch out West
Where the cow-boys ride o’er the prairie wide
In gladsome garments drest.
And because he couldn’t escape from her love
Jim married a gloomy squaw,
And a chief absurd, like a rooster bird,
Became his father-in-law.
A personage quaint—blanket, feathers and paint—■
Was our hero’s father-in-law.
Six years had he cherished his gloomy spouse
When a lawyer from abroad
Explained, with courteous coughs and bows,
That Jim was a noble lord.
His cousin had “ snuffed,” and the widow sweet
Was willing-, no doubt, to wed
The man who’d a squaw and a father-in-law
With feathers attached to his head,
And a dear little brat, very merry and fat,
Half white and the other half “ red.”
Something had certainly got to be done
’Ere yet the wedlocked peer
Could quit the ranch with his tinted son,
And move in a highah sphere ;
So the squaw fell dead in a fit of grief,
Or perished of suicide,
Or was slain by the hand of the Rooster Chief.
As a matter of fact, she died.
At the end of the play she returned to clay-
As a matter of fact, she died.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in tiie city.
IMMENSE STOCK OE FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Alderman J. Campbell M ( DougaU’s
Testimony.
“ Campbell Lodge Sydney,
“ October 2, 1902.
“ Messrs. Fisher & Co.
“Dear Sirs, —For many years I could get no
relief from frightful RHEUMATIC PAINS.
Lately my case had become very serious, the sys-
tem was altogether out of gear, until I had the good
fortune to take your KILLRHEU, and I must say
it worked wonders, the change is most remarkable.
I am quite a different man. I am now full of
ENERGY and BRIGHTNESS.
“ Killrheu must be one of the greatest BLOOD
PURIFIERS in the world, for it takes away all
PAIN. You are at liberty to use this,
“ And oblige yours, etc.,
“J. C. M'DOUGALL,
“ Mayor of Randwick.”
df
» RILLRHE-U ”
drives all URIC ACID from the system,
leaving the BLOOD PURE and RICH.
Every Pain is banished.
“KILLRHEU” is taken hot at night-time, with or without white wine.
Manufacturing Pharmacy— ALL CHEMISTS, 2s 6d and 4s 6d.
FISHER & CO., 337 GEORGE ST. (Nearly opp. G. <P. Office ), SYDNEY
If “The Squaw Man ” at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) had nothing but its plot, dialogue, and
mawkish sentimentality to recommend it, the
Australian outlook for that loose-jointed melo-
drama would be blue, indeed. But there are some
stirring incidents of a “ Wild Western ” character
which crop up naturally in the course of a foolish
story, and stick in one’s memory after the curtain
has fallen. Cash Hawkins, described on the
programme as “a rustler and bad man,
is °a convincing figure during the brief
term of his stage life. He comes into
the Long Horn Saloon at a Cow-town on
the Union Pacific railroad, and gives an air of
genuineness to the situation. He’s full of fire-
water and misehief—a man looking for murder,
and doomed to find it. The Indian chief, who
travels around with an interpreter, is also an im-
pressive stranger if taken seriously. Australian
audiences will mostly decline to take him
seriously, on account of his resemblance to the
masquerading comedians in “ Paul Jones,” but
the old Rooster deserves favorable mention. He’s
worthy of better support from the dramatist. As
for the English characters in this American
story, they are unreal all the time, and even
in their unreality they don’t make a fair
claim to sympathy. The heroine, having a weak
colorless husband who is in love with her, tries to
seduce his heroic cousin Jim, and Jim, for his
part, is merely an exponent of Heroism. There’s
nothing in him, save Heroism. The actor,
Charles Waldron, has a good appearance and a
considerable Yankee accent, and in his speech and
mannerisms he faintly suggests Nance O’Neil.
Miss Ola Humphrey, the amorous and beauteous
Diana of the piece, seems wanting in emotional
power. Twenty characters —exclusive of those
aforementioned which fall to the imported mem-
bers of the coS—are filled by artists who would
amount to a very strong combination in a drama
where they could show their strength. “The
Squaw Man ” gives them no chance to score.
** * #
At the Princess’s this is the third week of
“ Mexico,” and the man who didn’t come from
there is still turning pale at the mention of bean
soup. The other convicts, who appear to be few
in number, are also silently complaining that the
Ladies’ Prison Smile Brigade offers them bouquets
when they cry for increased rations, and the
German imbecile continues to doubt whether
Hugh Ward is a trustworthy lawyer. The
imbecile’s misgivings on this point are the most
subtle joke in the whole proceedings.
* * -* *
Nothing special has happened at the Opera
House for a week, or more, save the arrival of
Seymour and Dupre (an uneventful couple), and a
change for the worse in the comedy sketch of
Homer B. Mason. The prosperity of “ Rickards’ ”
will be stimulated with some further new arrivals
on Saturday, by which time the versatile Vasco
will have blown his 39 different instruments off the
premises.
** * *
Standing room only at the Royal on
Saturday (July 7) when “The Assassin”
(impersonated by Eugenie Duggan) revealed her-
self to Melbourne, not as a chronic murderess but
as a just avengeress with a single excusable
homicide to her credit. The play, rich in thrillful
happenings reminiscent of “La Tosca,” “Wine
and Women,” &c., depicts in its own far-fetched
way an episode of Russian life. Czardom,
holding as it does trump-cards in the alleged
criminality of its Classes and the advertised
martyrdom of its Masses, offers a fruitful field to
the enterprising dramatist, who places the entire
vice of the plot in the capable hands of
one Muscovite Prince and lays most of
the virtue at the door of a simple soldier-man.
Bad “Prince Demetri ” (11. O. Willard) glides
through a career of mixed crime with a sneer on
his lip and a supercilious skating gait, suggestive
of recent practice in the new Glaciarium. His
stage sinfulness begins when he induces “Princess
Wanda ” alias “ The Assassin ” to sign a contract
of marriage with himself, on the understanding
that he will release the lady’s sister, condemned
to death as an Anarchist. In fulfilment of his
promise, the bridegroom-elect produces his sister-
in-law’s corpse and then pirouettes from the pres-
ence of his deceived Princess, vowing to return
anon to drag her reluctant form to the
Demetri residence. Fortunately, the bond,
though signed, is not yet sealed. A common
soldier has just taken refuge from pursuing
gunners in Princess Wanda’s hotel. Rather
than share Demetri’s name and address, the des-
perate lady hurriedly weds the fugitive. The
results are unfortunate for the fugitive (George
Cross). Not only does the baffled Prince hound
down the interloper, but Wanda herself, though
she had made her husband swear never to insult
her by so much as a glance of recognition, takes
offence at his too literal interpretation of her
instructions, and hands him over to the police as
a Nihilist. George Cross’s wife, leaning on
Demetri’s arm, hysterically applauds the arrest.
Repentance quickly follows. The grass-widow
once more flouts the prince, fights a duel with him,
and finally stabs him to death. The head of
the Russian police pronounces her deed an act
of justice, and when the curtain falls the im-
petuous Wanda is seen clasped to the heart of her
Tommy Atkins. The play has more than suffi-
cient comic relief, supplied mainly by Bert Bailey
as an old Oirish gintleman, in the uniform of a
British officah; Mabel Lane, who looks hand-
some in a succession of effective toilettes, and
other Andersonians. Costumes are a feature of
the production. The Assassin herself (Eugenie
Duggan) enjoys numerous ornate evening gowns.
Bert Bailey comes out strong in the matter of
showy uniform ; Ethel Buckley, as a lady’s maid,
constantly changes the fashion of her cap and
ribbons ; and Willard is gorgeous in the matter of
boots and fur toques.
*** * '
An Axemen’s Carnival and a Feast of
Sawing will be brought to a finish in Melbourne
during the thrfee last days of the present week,
Fitzgerald’s circus-building being the place ap-
pointed for the competition. At the Athenaeum
Hall there are no more West Pictures, nor any
Brescians left in evidence, but Melbourne is some-
what compensated for the loss of its Athenaeum
show by the bi-weekly performances of organist
Lemare"on the reconstructed box of music at the
Town Hall. The municipal instrument is a fine
thing, and Lemare is drawing great music from
its soul.
** # *
An Adelaide girl, Miss Elsie Hamilton, is
to give a pianoforte recital at the Pianola Hall,
Melb., on the 17th. By the way, is there no
encouragement for Sydney pianistes to take a
winter trip to Melbourne with a reasonable hope
of paying exes. ?
TEMPORARY PREMTER HALL JONES , of
Moue Hand, the first Premier named Jones
on the Australasian record.
Photo, by Hermann, Wellington, Maoriland.
“Little Mary,” at Adelaide Royal, has
come successfully through the difficult feat of
holding audiences to whom the name is over
familiar, while all the characters profess to have
themselves no idea of what it means. However,
there is always a certain satisfaction in knowing
the answer to a riddle, and then fitting it with a
neatly appropriate question. The piece itself is
pure Barrie—that is to say, a mixture of pure wit
and occasional trivialities. Miss Winifred
Fraser carries it on her back, but there is
some bright acting among the rest, Edgar
Payne playing effectively a part that one
can “see” Brough in. That is the trouble
just now; one looks for Brough everywhere.
Herbert Flemming is not quite his equal in “ The
Walls of Jericho,” the weight of years (the weight,
that is, not the years) being against him. In
character parts Flemming is great, and, very
sensibly, he does not disdain to play them. As a
romantic actor, he has touches of both George
Alexander and Wilson Barrett. Adelaide—in
which city he used to be a member of Holloway’s
“ stock ” company about 25 years ago —has made
him very welcome.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Edward Lemare, come to Australia to wake the new'
Melbourne Town Hall organ, is a fair plump-faced man,
w'ith a soft, hesitant, don’t-you-know sort of voice and
accent. He suggests a peer whose father was a barber.
But he sits dowm in front of the keyboard, and at orice there
is a mighty rushing tidal u'ave of sound. Edward, with
the curly moustache, stands beside it -turns it with one
hand from one ocean into another ; pats it smooth ; puts
a white fat palm on it, and squashes it flat and still ; lifts
it up with two fingers, and wipes the spray off it with a
third ; gives it a little shove, till all the roaring, scream-
ing, spouting, trumpeting, hooting monsters in creation
are rolling along its crest ; then suddenly he puts a thumb
in front of it, and stops it dead so that one foolish little
bird in a rosegarden may begin to twitter. Then Edward,
with the same plump, placid face, drops the tidal wave
down into a gulf of silence, and you go away to consider
what a fearsome monster the organ is, and how many
things might happen if it broke loose and ran amok, with
torn music hanging from its jaws and a froth of wild
sound dripping from its mouth.
The “Fatal Wedding” Co. made w'ay at Bundaberg
(Q.) for George Reid’s show. It was proposed at first that
George’s programme should be presented at the drill
shed," but the scheme for borrowing that Government
property fell through. The awful melodrama in which
the villain falls 40,000 ft. or so had a lease of the theatre,
and, being approached, it expressed itself willing that
the bad man should not bounce off the rocks that night.
So Reid took his place, and proved to be even more im-
probable than the melodrama.
The Des Moines Leader (U.S.) was lately sued by
three sisters, variety artists, for libel. They failed to
get a verdict. Here was the alleged libel“ Effie is an
old jade of fifty summers, Jessie a frisky filly of forty',
and Addie, the flower of the family, a capering mon-
strosity of thirty-five. Their long, skinny arms, equipped
with talons at the extremities, swung mechanically, and
anon waved frantically at the suffering audience. The
mouths of their rancid features opened like caverns, and
sounds like the wailing of damned souls issued therefrom.
They pranced around the stage with a motion that
suggested a cross between the danse du ventre and the
fox-trot —strange creatures with painted faces and
hideous mien.”
The curiosity of theatrical Adelaide is being aroused by
the announcement of a new melodrama, “ The Socialist,”
which is due at the Tivoli on July 14 and following nights.
The author is 0. E. Taylor, who was responsible for “The
Chicago Girl ” a few years back. If he has mixed his gore
and his politics judiciously, there is no reason why the
new piece shouldn’t succeed. Its arrival is certainly
opportune. It can be followed by a screaming farce
called “ The Anti-Socialist.”
“ Melb.” : “ The Squaw Man ” is palpably founded on
the yore time “ Green Bushes,” with ingredients from
“ Arizona ” and “ Sunday.” In “ The Squaw Man ” there
is the same difficulty over a white taking up with an
Indian girl. Then you remember Kingsley’s Amyas
Leigh and Ayacanora, in “ Westward Ho.”
“ O’F.” : Re new play ending with Abe Lincoln enter-
ing the theatre in which he was assassinated by John
Wilkes Booth (B. 28/6/’O6). In her “ Life on the Stage,”
American tragedienne Clara Morris reminisces concern-
ing Booth, with whom she appeared early in her career.
He was about the most considerate actor she ever met,
and both in and out of the theatre did much good as
unobtrusively as possible. But he inherited a strain of
melancholy, which deepened into something worse, and
made him an easy tool for the Southern plotters. After
the murder there was a terrible outcry against all actors,
and the company with which Miss Morris was appearing
came near to being mobbed. Booth’sbrother, Edwin, aban-
doned the theatre for about a year, and thought his
career was over, but, on receiving assurances of public
sympathy, he reappeared, and for another 30 years was
the most eminent and respected actor on the American
stage.
“Gip”: The photo, of new musical prodigy, Miecio
Horszowski, lately pawing ivory at the Steinway Hall,
London, gives me the hump like a camel. His dead-
looKing face is worse than his name, and his legs are
worse than his dead face, and his hair is worse than the
whole lot put together. Why, oh why are musical people
so hairy ? One forgives J. Eyebrows Sykes—he does keep
his back hair short —but the little heaven-born fiddler
now! Once I was meditatively twisting my singing-
masters back hair into ringlets (nothing naughty in that
—it was a way we had of showing our daughterly devo-
tion. “ Our father who art in George-street, Hallewell be
thy name,” as a giddy little soprano used to chirp) and
asked plaintively, “ Daddy, dear, why don’t you get your
hair cut ? ” But Daddy only chuckled fatly—he wouldn’t
tell me.
One State Governor is much surprised to learn that
theatres do not charge for seats set apart for Government
House, and has intimated his intention of paying in
future or staying away. Brough and Boucicault accom-
modated one Governor for five years without a penny of
acknowledgment, but in that case his Ex. thought his
cash minion had been paying all the time.
“T.D.”: Surprising how many more or less dis-
tinguished people, whose names are probably a blank to
the majority of Australians, transpire (at death or upon
some other special occasion) as being of Australian birth.
Olga Brandon, who used to be a leading actress in
London some years back, and who died, the other day,
after a long illness, was Victorian, and got her turn for
histrionics in school shows-off at Geelong convent. She
went over to America to do things on the boards, and
debuted in N’York in the early 80’s. About ’B7 she
travelled Londonwards, and was for some time identified
with the old Royalty Theatre. Later on, she figured in
“ Judah,” at Musgrove’s Shaftesbury, and this is said to
have been her best performance.
“8.5.”: People wondered why it was the Brough-
Flemming co. didn’t revive some old favorites. The
reason is that when last Brough he had no
intention of returning to Australia, so sold the rights of
some of his plays, whilst others he handed back to the
authors. “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” for instance, is
now the property of J. 0. Williamson.
Alice Raymond, who blows melody through many brass
instruments for the edification of Rickards’ audiences,
and John Kurkamp, her tenor husband, who warbles
from the band-stand, report their intention of making
their home in Australia, where they intend to buy land
and raise chickens for a living. Why is it that when
the pro. retires in these latitudes it is so often with
the intention of dragging the hen off the hot egg and
selling the latter article in a rising market? Writer
remembers a few who have failed at the game, and warns
Raymond and Kurkamp that poultry farming is not a
business in which you merely buy a rooster and a pullet,
and then trust in Providence. To keep a hen working
calls for eternal vigilance, and mostly the tenor finds
there is more money in his own lay.
For public auction, towards the end of August,
Bellair’s Hotel, Wagga Wagga (N.S.W.), as a going
concern, by order of the trustees under the will of
T. S. Bellair. Tom Bellair was a fairly good actor,
and one of six who leased the Melbourne Theatre
Royal when Barry Sullivan went to England in the
sixties. The other five were J. O. Lambert, who
took his savings to his native town of Wells (England),
and died in the peaceful enjoyment of the produce;
H. R. Harwood and Richard Stewart, who invested their
savings in certain societies in Melbourne, and lost them
all in the boom and burst time ; Charles Vincent, husband
of Miss Cleveland, who died during the partnership ;
John Hennings, the scene painter, who boasted that he
enjoyed his “savings” as he went along ; and Tom Bel-
lair, who retired finally to Wagga, where he invested his
profits well.
J. Nevin Tait, who has been in England picking up
Clara Butt and other artists for concert tours, was simply
rushed by people of more or less celebrity who wanted to
bear their own expenses in touring Australia, and take
their chances of the profits. Quite a lot of thfe English
provincial work nowadays is done on the shares system,
each artist contributing so much towards the preliminary
expenses, and taking pot-luck as to whether there will
be any money at the finish. And,,as a rule, after the
wants' of the star have been satisfied, there is very little
money left for the supporting artists. Stars are greedy
folk.
“ T.D.” : Let the Australian girl with a voice just pause
and consider the crush of moneyed debutantes in London.
I have been glancing over the lists of fixtures for the three
smaller West-end halls which are favored by recitalists
because the critics regard them as legitimate places of
call. The May programmes already include no fewer than
sixty new-chum aspirants for vocal and instrumental
fame, and the vacant dates will all be filled before the
month is out. At that rate there will be something like
200 new' people claiming attention at the first-class halls
during the three months of the “ big” season, and in the
seven months of the Autumn and Winter seasons there
were probably 300 more—soo in all 1 So far as the process
of making a reputation is concerned, it is not to be done
by one or two recitals ; names are made in London by
forcing yourself before the public so often that they think
you must be great. Now, as each recital costs from £3O
to £2OO, according to the shark-like characteristics of the
concert agent, the person with the money wins.
When the late J. F. Levien, of the Victorian Assembly,
was a young man he was fond of theatricals, as most
young Hebrews are. He made some good hits at Geelong
in an amateur dramatic company, and the co. got such a
bad attack of expansion of the skull that it went on tour.
When it returned from the “provinces,” the George
Tallis of the crowd squared up accounts and proceeded
to declare a dividend. Levien got one penny. Until his
dying day Jonas Felix kept that penny to remind him not
to do it again.
Latest heard from Alfred Woods (letter dated Birming-
ham, England) shows that he and Miss Williamson were
entering on a tour of Scotland and Ireland, then’back to
the Coronet Theatre, London. There was some talk of
Woods and Cartwright joining forces for an Australian
tour.
The late Martin Simonsen w'as in the habit, when
travelling by rail, of making a memo., on his shirt-cuff, of
the number of parcels he had with him on entering the
carriage—it saved time, he said, when he reached his des-
tination. On one occasion, on arrival at Ballarat, his
cuff registered five packages, while he could only find
three. “Veil,” he said, “I’ve got everything right
enough, but I had five parcels ven I left, and I’ve only
got three now.” And he had to be content at that. The
missing articles worried him all day, until, with a flash of
inspiration, he remembered that on boarding the train at
Melbourne he had carried his overcoat on his arm and a
bag of grapes in his hand. Owing to a draught, he had
put the coat on during the journey, and, owing to a
drought, he had eaten the grapes.
Gladys Ure, the girl from Melbourne, secured a unique
success in New York with her “ own composition ” con-
cert. As a song writer she was represented by eleven
numbers, singing three of them herself. The critics said
some sweet things about her songs, and her soprano voice,
and her “ eloquent expression.” As to her appearance,
the unanimous verdict was briefly delivered by the New
York Daily News : “ Miss Ure is a young’ woman from
Australia, of remarkably handsome and stately appear-
ance, one to whom Nature has been more than generous.”
And she’s only twenty-one. The fair Gladys has lost no
time in growing stately.
“Janor”: Did someone say we are not a musical
people? Here’s the relative size of things in the Vic.
backblocks. In a gold-and-God-forsaken hamlet the lid
was passed round for the local bandmaster, recently, and
a tenner was raised with ease and despatch. He was a
good bandmaster, and deserved all he got. Later, the
captain of the Rifle Club lighted out for fresh fields (gold-
fields), and once more the cady circulated, but, after
strenuous efforts, the harvest was something like 30s.
Also, he was a good captain, and deserved more than he
got.
An attempt has been made at Perth to
steal the jewellery of the Westralian Premier,
Mr. Newton Moore. It is little incidents like
these that remind us of the existence of some
State Premiers.
The new Vic. Licensing Bill will aim,
among other things, at prohibiting the employ-
ment of girls under 21 as barmaids. “ I think
little dots of 16 or 17, in short frocks, have no
right behind bars.” says Premier Tommy. It all
depends. Judging by a score of recent cases in
Australia, this would be a safer country for men
if a good many dots of 16 or 17, in short frocks,
were kept behind bars.
N.S.W. Government announces its inten-
tion to import from India or America a supervis-
ing irrigation engineer. It is worth remembering
in this connection that some years ago Colonel
Home, an expert Indian irrigationist, was invited
to N.S.W. by the Government of the day to
advise on an irrigation scheme, at a huge fee,
and that the reports of his official labors
have never been worth a Parliamentary or press
comment. Altogether the military waterman
cost the State just on £5OOO, and no person alive
can mention sixpence worth of good as the result
of his engagement.
Now and then the President of the Board
of Health professes ignorance of the way the
plague breaks out in Sydney. He cannot trace the
source of infection. Lately a man died, and his
case was diagnosed as true bubonic plague. His
place of employment in Harbor-street was visited.
It was a box factory, and the place was found
littered with dirt and rubbish—l 3 dead rats
included. The owner of the place was fined £5
on ly_on the ground that he had not been near
the box factory lately. The thing that is not
explained is : Where did the week’s consignment
of boxes—the possibly infected boxes—go to from
that factory ?
Australian girls who fondly dream of going
as missionaries to the gentle Chow in his native
land should study the latest reports of massacre
there; so should' the girls’ fathers and brothers.
To be martyred for the faith may be well enough
if it is a prompt, graceful, picturesque martyr-
dom. But it is a poor kind of ending for a refined
woman to be stripped of all her clothing by a
mob, and then slowly clawed and beaten to death
—all over the house and garden, upstairs and
down again, into the fish-pond and out, for hours,
until the end comes as a release. A Chinese mob
—either from frugality or some other cause—seems
to always drag its- victim’s clothes off as tie very
first proceeding. 7,
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., in his commendable
desire for immigrants, is falling nowadays into a
frantic craving for almost any kind of immigrants.
His proposal to bring out hordes of Russian or
other Jews and settle them on the land is humor-
ous. The Jew has forgotten all about the land.
He couldn’t be kept on it if he were chained to a
gum-tree, for he would sell the chain and float the
tree into a syndicate. Also, the most available
kind of Hebrew—the one from Russia—has no
fighting record, and would be a very poor outpost.
Australia wants immigrants badly, but still we
have only one country to giveaway to immigrants,
and we can only give it away once ; and to throw
it wildly to anybody because he is white—or would
be if he were washed —is madness.
An ancient (as Sydney goes) hostelry,
the “Gardener’s Arms,” York-street, is about
to be demolished. Long years ago an old settler,
Joseph Nobbs, described as a land-owner, lived
in a cottage near the spot. He died there in
December, 1884, aged 90 years. Then there was
a John Nobbs who died in 1810 and a John
Nobbs who died in 1827, and there was a John
Nobbs who kept the “Gardener’s Arms” in 1850.
This latter gentleman possessed an estate at
Surry Hdls, where he carried on the business of
a market gardener, orchardist and nursery-man.
Pictures of Sydney in its mid-age show the hos-
telry towering alone over the old Central Police
Court. It was opened in the mid-forties by
Joseph Bibb, who appears to have given way to
John Nobbs—the father, it is understood, of the
gentleman who cracks the political whip over the
wobbly supporters of the Carruthers Ministry.
The house then fell into the hands of Benjamin
Beattie, who died and left it to his son William,
in whose hands it has been for something like 40
years. In the days of the old Central Police
Court, the house was a place of call for old-time
attorneys who did the police court business. There
was old Jim Carroll, who always “spoke good
law,” and there was Mr. Robey, who shared with
Jim the chief minor business. Near the hotel,
E. J. Cory, “ Bill ” Roberts and R. H. M. Forster,
solicitor, had their offices, and between the offices
of Forster and Cory was the old Synagogue. The
building of the new markets completely changed
the face of that part of York-street, and now the
ancient pub. itself goes.


F urred vSkins
Rabbit vSßins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNfTENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Woo! and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY
If You
Want
A GOOD CAMERA
‘sm
ASK TO SEE
The Simplest and Best Film
CAMERA NOW OFFERED.
Can also be used for Dry Plates. Folds flat like a book, and will slin
easily into the coat pocket.
Takes Photos. 4|in. x 3Jin.
HARRINGTON’S
NO. 3 CENTURA
Fitted with Beck Symmetrical Lens, with Iris Diaphragm, Brilliant
View Finder, Time and Instantaneous Shutter, (giving exposures
from 2 seconds to l-1000th of a second), Rack and Pinion Focussing
and Ground Glass Screen, and all modern movements.
Cameras, from ss. to £5O.
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
CAMERA, complete, for Films only - m £4 12 6
CAMERA, complete, for Films & Plates £4 17 6
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.
Photographic
Merchants . .
386 GEORGE ST.
C.P.O.,
NEAR
SYDNEY, and 93 Queen-st., Brisbane
Society
THE OBJECT.
VICAR (who wants to send his curate for a holi-
day): “Yes, Mrs. Heavy-Purse, it's for this
object I'm collecting .”
-A- Yankee millionaire can do most things
with impunity, but he mustn’t “nark ” a brother
capitalist on the subject of his wife’s purple past
rea i °. r alleged. The other night Harry Thaw,
one of the Pittsburgh dollarmen, made a target of
Stanford White at a New York theatre. The
third shot proved fatal. Stanford White had the
name of being the giddiest millionaire in New
York society, and seemingly he boasted of his
bygone relations with Mrs. Thaw—hence the
tragic revolver practice. Strange that a man
with an enormous capacity for enjoying himself
and unlimited means to do it with, should go out of
his way to infuriate a person who is favorably cir-
cumstanced for shooting him. Stanford White
was the same sort of cad as Jim Fiske, one
of the earliest Yankee millionaires. Fiske bought
a woman who had previously been a friend of his
friend Stokes, and he made Stokes mad by flaunt-
ing her around town as his new “mash.” So
Stokes shot the bloated Jim in the stomach whilst
the lady was hanging on his arm, and the mur-
derer aidn t die for his crime. After doing a
term of imprisonment, he bought the Hoffman
House Hotel. Millionaire Thaw is not likely to
get even a term of imprisonment. As an injured
millionaire husband, he was more or less privi-
leged to fire his little gun in America.
„ lle ] c ',"' se °f the Lindfors will case which
impreStraran elTtS^r s”'*'*' 5 ”'*'*'- toves *»
English was vmli, German woman, whose
thrown awayToood'Si T* h * Ve re f, kless 'J'
Lindfors of M.riSuj i f mone y- Captain
a confused ar H % yho seems to have been
S“K
Dorothy Reimer Then Ger “ an ™ a n,
'JsesZ
document authen *'^"of lUimePs
E with £ W T consults
.1 awyers \ there were strugrerles to rai«?p
Wellington el? expen ® es ? f tlle troop across to
inVierifr? V elaborate devices for pawning the
S"mSf, fo t f,r' 8 r ! md there were
wire f Wl , tness ® 8 as to the amount they
value of a wdn/°> ° SS - ° f tlme ‘ In such cases the
value ol a witness business, and the amount she—
they were mostly she-is liable to lose by neglect-
ng it, is apt to swell up wonderfully All this
°t thing that mighThappen to
thJ viltl, d German w p Ina n With no money, and
’ £ cou , rt ‘?°k of it was that she was
„ 2 a » d thither till the whole thing
assumed to her the aspect of a huge conspiracy!
At aH events, she went confusedly away and gave
the win d J! for T atlon ’ Wh,ch seemed to imply that
fused Perm a f ° rgery> , a , nd which led to the con-
and V,it ! l woman . s lawyer, and her financier,
Their « witnesses, being all tried for conspiracy.
i ln. T ltta seems to inlp ly that the law
reckons the will was genuine after all—but by
another will is proved, and somebody else
has the money ; that it thinks there was no con-
spiracy, and that the confused German woman
has muddled away her inheritance—or any-
thing that would have been left of it after the
expenses and the financing were paid for—out of
over-excitement mingled with broken English. It
may seem a remarkable decision to arrive at, for
throwmg away money is a wildly unusual thing,
but that is where the law, after conisdering the
evidence, did arrive. Meanwhile the witnesses,
having lost their trip to Maoriland and their ex-
penses and other remuneration, and having gone
through a long and expensive trial, may sit down
i^ d consider the folly of upsetting their own cart
by being too greedy after remuneration, and claw-
ing around till an elderly German woman doesn’t
know whether she is standing on her head or her
• * * *
Melbourne Y.M.C.A., afflicted with the
usual craze f°r bringing things from somewhere
else, has just imported a Yankee general secre-
tary, who is understood to snatch brands from the
burning at a great rate. Prime Minister Deakin,
strange to say, attended the welcome to the person
who hands out salvation through his nose, and
made a speech to the imported article such as
might have been expected from Johnston or
ht’ ° r any ° ther ° f the Foreign-trade pro-
“Hamer” : One
of the sights of a
Sydney suburb is a
stout, dilapidated in-
dividual who daily
drives, in an ancient
four-wheeled sulky,
drawn by an emaci-
ated ghost of what
was once a horse, the
family cow from its
grazing grounds. A
local man told me
that this vision was
worth pots of money,
but he didn’t say
where he kept the
pots. He doesn’t
carry any wealth in
his daily procession ;
the Zoo might give
him a few shillings
for his animals, but
no self - respecting
second - hand dealer
would handle his
clothes, and an old-
iron man would
laugh his sulky to
pieces. Probably his
wealth is over-esti-
mated ; a reputation
for riches is often
built on a decayed
suit and a, mean appearance, probably outhe
idea that if a man doesn’t spend money he must
have it. It is the same idiotic reasoning that
makes the reputation of certain cold, silent in-
dividuals as people of great reserve force—lceberg
J™, for instance. And the same reasoning
should make its alleged reasoners worship stones'
which are also cold and silent.
* * * 9
Seemingly the motor ’bus is hard to
acclimatise in these parts. Tasmania was about
the first State to import the animal. It was put
I th , fr T ew Town t 0 Glenorchy
(Hobart), but had to be taken off. People said
the new bea,st was too frivolous, and preferred to
wait for the train. But while the ’bus was
running Chief Commissioner Tait, of Victoria
went over to Tasmania on a special mission’
inspected the new swift reptile, and went back
to Melbourne and ordered some from England as
feeders for his railways, chiefly in Melbourne
suburbs. Low Tait declares that the motor’bus
is unsuited to rough roads, and he’s taking them
and r lettin & his railways go without feed.
When Launceston (Tas.) saw that Hobart was
getting motor ’buses, it bought some from the
Hobart syndicate, and sent to England for more
and had others made in Launceston. But the
Launceston company couldn’t shift the old
broken-down horse ’buses that were years ago
brought from Sydney, and kept “ Waverley ” and
Holden Grove and so on exhibited on their
=Jr^n fO T of habit > i ust as if those places
weren t 600 miles away.
Judkins, of Melbourne, is rebuked for the
readiness he displays in yelling “Police!” and
having disturbers of the peace at his meetings
fired into the street, where they listen in vain
for the sound of the blessed “terewth,”
and is reminded of a sturdy, old-time temperance
reformer who waxed impatient with an impassive
audience of Ballarat miners, and rebuked
it for its want of vim. “I don’t know I’m
doing the least bit of good in the world,
till I feel my audience stirring, and notice
people trying to pitch the forms at me,” cried
the old cold water man. “ Wake up, you miners,
and let me know that I am moving you !” At
this point a large turnip, a long, lucky shot from
the far end of Alfred Hall, took the lecturer some-
where between wind and meals, and doubled him
up under his own table. Slowly the Rechabite
extracted himself ; for a minute he leaned on the
table to recover his wind ; then he faced his
audience again. “ Ah, that’s better !” he said
“ Gip ” : That story (B. 7/6/’O6) about the
South Sea Islander in the abbreviated gar-
merit, and the Sydney lace-counter girl with
the shattered illusion, reminds me of this,
iour or five years ago I knew a nice,
educated man who ran periodically to the
Islands. Don’t know what he did, but
heard him speak of copra. Anyhow,
he seemed to fill a responsible posi-
tion. I met him one day in King-
street wearing a worried look. I
sympathetically suggested calo-
mel. He didn’t seem to under-
stand. He was leaving in two
days and couldn’t fix his business
up. He had engaged two barmaids
and a lady-help successfully, but
Krupp wanted a wife, and he could
find no suitable woman to take back
to Krupp. The Islands have
always fascinated me, I inquired
about Krupp. He was a good fel-
low, it seemed, aged 47 years, con-
sumptive, very deaf, and had an im-
pediment in his speech. Obviously
my nice man didn’t think I would be
an applicant for the position of Mrs.
Krupp, or I hardly suppose he would
have given me all these details about
Krupp. His trouble was a very real one,
however. Calomel was no sort of use to him—l
could see that.
Lawyers costs crop up even when a fcram-
guard appeals to N.S.W. Tramway Commissioners
to have a case considered or reconsidered A
tram-man ran against a “stick,” and was sacked.
He appealed to the Appeal Board ; costs for
solicitor £3 3s. No redress. He appealed to the
Commissioners; solicitor’s costs £3 3 S The
Commissioners referred him back to the Appeal
Board, solicitor’s costs £3 3s. The Board sent him
back to the Commissioners, solicitor’s costs £3 3s.
The Commissioners then reinstated him. But the
tram-man had to pay the £l2 12s. .
The management of Melbourne Glaciarium
has decided that only the unspotted shall be
admitted within the sacred portals and allowed to
whizz on the ice with sweet innocent fur-clad
Toorak. The said Toorak was put through a
course of great suffering during the early weeks of
the ice rage. “ She ” was always divinely frocked.
She learnt to skate in one-third the time taken by
the others, and then She skated about three times
as well as they did. She never bothered about
men—never spoke to them or angled for them or
flirted outrageously with them ; but Toorak had
heard rumors about who buys the frocks and pays
the board bills, etc., of the divinity. So Toorak
is alleged to have breathed grammatically in the
ear of the management, and the management is
alleged to have breathed on paper to the divinity,
and She comes no more, and the place is all the
gloomier for her absence. There is now a pure,
holy air about the Glaciarium, but it continues,
all the same, to be called the “home for falling
women.”
CONSIDERATE.
POET : “I left a poem with you yesterday. Would
you tell me what you think about it?”
EDITOR (in a whisper): “I’d rather not just
now. There are some ladies in the next room.”
An eminent N.S.W. medico thus differen-
tiates between allopaths and herbalists :
, rl allopath treats a patient and the patient recovers
health that allopath cured that patient. If the patient
dies, that allopath is in no sense answerable. If a
herbalist treats a patient and that patient recovers, the
recovery is to be attributed to the effect of time. If the
patient dies, that herbalist should be tried for murder.
M‘GREGORVILLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
pot^c! ot the
f Professor 'i
The teg nor l h„ ,„i, d
f England J l Meteorologist J
from - Scotland }—Daily paper.
t America. J
There’s a billet to give? Who is asking?
There’s a chance at the top of the tree,
In the sunlight of power to be basking
With a little good red f.s.d.
Got a candidate ? Whom ?
An Australian '!■ The beggar 1
Stand down, sir 1 Make room
For Sir William M'Gregor !
We’re wanting Professors to feed us ;
Politicians to sit on a rail;
Weather-prophets to guide or mislead us
And Judges to send us to gaol.
An Australian 1 Too bad !
Is he pulling our leg, or
Does he think we’ve gone mad ?
Bring Sir William M‘Gregor 1
We have billets and places assorted,
For M‘Gregor—M‘Gregor— alone ;
We kneel down to the people imported,
We’re M'Gregorists, marrow and bone.
Australian ambitions
We’ll squash in the egg, or
(Oh prospect pernicious !)
We’d have no M‘Gregor !
Australia !” the name resounds vainly
In the ears of “authorities ” bland ;
Let us call it M‘Gregorville plainly,
That at least we may know where we stand.
Then we’ll merit the blame
If we drive in a peg, or
Try to mark out a claim
That belongs to M‘Gregor 1
VIC.
Q.U.
LICHTS
OUT
l
Tot\rs O'JJ ThE. UCHT5
* —B‘D 7hE_nusic Stop
Ojo Cfry-ysrsJcrsse is
in T«e. C«»rsK5
/S° 1_PMGE_K JJ-T OS 1£AP
_ AMD vOii_DLY HO* 3 .
3wte.TM6.ART, OftStT?.VE. i
■ptAUTV — h£ WirSKS.V
2
C/UX\ IS OF> you SAY 7
Oh ye.s / Know !
1 MofiCCD You MOfNCi V>6AJVT
ors ARM /
/V s0 NOW VOOV\ ARE <£
J>»u,- STEP >S SI?W)Kj
I? Jv\ IMAP - tHO- *’ /,/ -
OUT YIAT3 OUT QUITE /
CM.M-
v3
Romance. *
SOMNtR? Yes- PERHAPS
CjooD- Ni<iriT, OUO ci-iaP ! ('Dear. Ciri_, THis is our TRam-
WhAT > PEAR .' You FEEL— ( HERE , HOLD THESE BUESJED WRAPS')
just as j do! Then kiss ne and say" Dam rs ! ”
V, c . KODAI-V


GLEAN OFF EATING.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ For years there was nothing I liked so much
as a smoke first thing in the morning, said Mr.
Henry Benyon, who lives in New Canterbury
Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney. “ When I got the
Indigestion, I knocked off the pipe for a time
but I had let it go too far. Smoke or no smoke,
I couldn’t get rid of it. My stomach was near
ruined. Pains came on in my chest after every
meal. Sometimes I was fairly doubled up with
them—and I had splitting headaches that knocked
me clean out. Everything seemed to be going
wrong with me. I was too weak to do. & hand s
turn when I started on Dr. Williams Pink Pills.
But I struck the right thing. They cured me in
less than a month —and for good, too.
“ My stomach was just as bad as it could be.
There’s no mistake about that,” Mr. Ben yon went
on. “Everything turned sour on me. When 1
woke of a morning, I had a vile taste in my
mouth. It was enough to make any man oft
color. As soon as I turned out of bed, everything
started to spin round. My head felt cronlc all the
time that I was getting dressed. Every blessed
morning I went out to breakfast feeling as sick as
a dog. It wasn’t worth my while sitting down to
it. So soon as they put anything in front of me
the smell of the food upset me. I had a hard job
not to vomit. Dozens of times I went till dinner
hour on a bit of bread and a cup of tea.
“ But it was all one to me—no matter whether
I had a decent feed or only a snack. My stomach
turned on me just the same. Everything turned
to wind. I was swelled up after every meal.
The food lodged in a hard lump on my chest, and
there it stayed. Nothing could shift it. I he
chemist was always fixing me up something to
take, but it was just chucking money away. He
couldn’t do anything to make the dull pain, in
between my shoulder blades, ease up. It never
let up on me. As sure as I tackled a bit of meat
I paid stiff for it. Inside an hour, a pain started
to bore through my breast bone. If I went to lift
anything, it caught me fair through the chest. It
was like a vice crushing the breath out of me.
When I straightened up, a pain ripped between
my ribs like the cut of a knife. It doubled me up
for five minutes at a stretch.
“ All the time my head was It was
never done thumping back and front. The pain
through my temples was like a spike going
through me. I crawled to work—but I didn t
care whether I took on a job or left it. I thought
the top of my head would burst. The pain even
got down into the back of my neck. How I stood
it so long, and kept grafting, I don’t know. It
knocked me clean out at last. My head felt
muddled. My nerves were all to pieces. Nothing
did me any good at all. This went on for years
till it took all the heart out of me. You never
saw a man so pulled down and miserable. When
I started taking Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I hadn t
the strength to keep on my feet. If ever there
was a broken down wreck, it was me.
“One night I read how Dr. Williams Pink
Pills had cured a man that had Indigestion, just
about as bad as I had it myself,” Mr. Benyon
went on. * ‘ That started me on them —and I got
some from Hordern’s. From the jump, I could
feel them doing me good. After taking the first
box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I was eating like
a horse. The bilious attacks went away, and I’ve
never had one since. The boring pain eased up
in my chest, and before I had got through three
boxes, it was gone. From that out, every box of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills gave me a lift. What-
ever I ate set me up. I don’t know what it is to
have a headache now, and I’m stronger than
ever I was. Six boxes of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills cured me, for I’ve never had a touch of
Indigestion since.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People never
fail to cure Indigestion, because, they go right to
the root of the trouble in the blood. Bad blood
is the cause of all common diseases like anaemia
(bloodlessness), eczema, paleness, headaches,
neuralgia, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago, back-
aches, kidney trouble, liver trouble, biliousness,
indigestion, general weakness, and the special
ailments that only women-folk know. Bad blood
is the one cause—and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
are the one cure, because they actually make new
blood. They do just that one thing, but they do
it well. They don’t act on the bowels. They
don’t bother with mere symptoms. But, of course,
you must get the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s.
3d., from chemists and storekeepers or sent, post
free, by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney.
Medical advice given, and proper diets recom-
mended.*
“ Some people say that, amongst the bar-
maids of Melbourne, are many well-educated
women. I don’t know anything about them. It
may be so, but I can’t say myself. I know
nothing about barmaids.” —Premier Bent.
To Thrifty Men.
MY OVERCOAT
\
Good Cloth
Good Linings
Good Tailoring
Good Style
Good Fit
Good Finish
‘Good Gracious!”
551
‘That's fearfully
cheap! ”
R. C. HAGON, Merchant tailor, 129 King St., Sydney.
Tn a recent book on ‘ ‘ He-
brew Humor,” J. Chotzner
laments the fact that Bible trans-
lators have deprived English
people of the puns that abound in
rhe original, as, for instance, those
that make “physician a trans-
ferable term for “corpses, and
“judge” for “the stupid one.
Israel Zangwill, and (to come
nearer home) Melbourne s de-
parted E. L. Zox have been
notable modern exponents of the
punning tradition that is still pro-
minent in Jewish humor. But
as they did not jest m the
language that Jeremiah used,
Chotzner overlooks them. Pass-
ages in the book help one to the
conclusion that the importing
craze had something to do with
the downfall of the old-time
Hebrew. It is on record that
numerous articles were dumped in
Jerusalem “from a false tooth to
an Arabian veil, a Persian shawl,
or an Indian dress.” One of
Chotzner’s humorous exhibits is
the story of a dying rabbi. “Do
you knokv,” he said to those in
the sick-room, “if, after all the
sad experiences I have had in the
past, there is no future life, I shall
be greatly amused ! ”
* * *
London Hospital —what a
cheerful name for a paper; why
not call it the Bandage or the
Amputation ’—alleges that the
copious shooting done by the
soldiery among the ruins of’Frisco
wasn’t really so wild as it looked.
When the shooters overhauled the
shootee after death they generally
—says the Monthly Tumor—
found his pockets full of ears and
fingers, hurriedly cut off as a
means of getting away with rings and ear-
rings. A nurse writes to the Infirmary to say
that she nursed a lady who had been stunned in
the street by some fallen debris, and awoke to find
that two of her fingers had been cut off with a
knife.
* * * *
The kindest offer that has come in the way
of the Sydney unemployed for quite a while is
that of Archdeacon Oakes, of Kelso, who pro-
poses to try and find work for some of the
Anglican members of the jobless brigade “on
condition that they undertake to attend the ser-
vices of the church. As regards the nature of the
work which he proposes to find it further tran-
spires that he thinks “if the Minister of Lands
will give him the necessary wire netting he can do
something in connection with the rabbit indus-
try.” It seems, in a vague sort of way, that Mr.
Oakes is to get some kind of a compulsory con-
gregation through the medium of wire-netting
paid for by a community which is largely Presby-
terian, R.C., Jew and Methodist.
* * * *
The Address-in-Reply at the opening of
N.S.W. Parliament was made up of the usual
three platitudes. The second one said that Par-
liament would give its “ earnest consideration.”
The third one expressed a hope that, “under
Divine Providence, our labors,” including the row
between Norton and Holman, would “prove of
benefit to all classes.” But the first platitude was
larger, and read as follows :
We, His Majesty’s loyal and dutiful subjects, the mem-
bers of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales, in
Parliament assembled, desire to express our thanks for
your Excellency’s Speech, and to assure you of our un-
feigned attachment to His Most Gracious Majesty’s
Throne and Person.
The Bulletin suggests, with all respect, that;
Platitude No. 1 is a very nasty, disagreeable
platitude. That remark about being attached to
his “person” is so beastly suggestive of a flea.
NO WONDER OUR WIVES HAVE GREY HAIR.
“ I'm just worried to death what to give my husband for his birthday. If I give him something
cheap he'll say I don't love him, and if I give him something real nice he'll growl like
anything when he gets the bill."
The “found on the premises” question
under N.S.W. Liquor Act has reached a critical
stage. A Sydney sergeant swore that, standing
eight yards away, he saw a pub. door open and a
young man come out at a prohibited hour. Was
the young man found on the premises ? Stipen-
diary Donaldson said “No.” The police appealed,
and Justice Pring said “Yes.” In London,
recently, a sergeant swore he saw a man go into
a pub. and a sub-inspector swore he saw that man
come out of the pub,, and the magistrate decided
that that was not finding him on the premises.
Yet to be “found” is really only to be “seen,”
and the doorway seems to be more or less the
premises—at least they would be mighty poor
premises without a doorway.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wijd’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
NOT PARTICULARLY REASSURING.
PATIENT : “Ak , doctor, I feel that I never could live through such another night as I had
last night."
DOCTOR (in his best bedside manner, and writing afresh prescription): “And I dont intend
that you shall."
The Victorian detectives are troubled by
a mystery. On Saturday evening (June 23),
Patrick O’Rourke, 44, gardener at a Toorak
mansion, went down to St. Kilda and invited a
lady friend for a walk. They strolled along the
beach a while, then Patrick 'left the lady momen-
tarily, and went into a small reserve. She waited
a space, then called him by name, but getting
no answer, made her way home. Meanwhile
O’Rourke, about half-an-hour after leaving her,
hailed a beach tram and went to the Alfred Hos-
pital. There he was discovered to be suffering from
an incised wound on the forehead and a badly-
hacked ear—the wounds being apparently made
with a tomahawk. What he said was that “ some
bloke had got at him with a stick, near the pier.”
Though he was in the hospital eight days and was
conscious most of the time, that was all he
would say. Then pneumonia set in, and Mr.
O’Rourke died. And now the detectives are
keen on interviewing the person wild slew Patrick.
They have found bloodstains in the reserve, but
these don’t elucidate the mystery much. Patrick
was possessed of some £5OO, saved out of his
wages, but that was in the bank, and the small
sum he had when he left home, also his watch and
chain, were untouched when he reached the
hospital. The girl says there was no cause for
jealousy; in fact, they were not by any means an
engaged couple. She wrote him when in the
hospital, but he merely crushed up the letter amd
threw it aside. The only feasible explanation
seems to be that Patrick was entitled to great
estates in Ireland, and that the next heir came
out by steamer and struck him with an axe.
A pathetically novel form of book, titled
“The Discriminators,” was published in Mel-
bourne, the other day, at the modest price of six-
pence. The author, “ Ancient Briton ” (who
appears to be a Welsh girl), describes it as a
British-Australian Narrative dealing with “ Poli-
tics —Its Parties and Discrimination,” and many
other things, including the Bonds of Imperial
Union. The book is really sixpenn’orth of
mystery in ten chapters, and its occasional
heroine is a beauteous white Miriel, captured by
the Moorumburra blacks on the north coast of
Australia. The male items of the weird fiction
are divided into Discriminators and Indiscrimina-
tors, who discuss discrimination in all its branches.
One of them quotes the Right Hon. Arthur Bal-
four to the effect that science until quite lately
had misread the atom. “ Down to say five years
ago our race had lived and died in a world of
illusions. It is now discovered that the molecule
is a sphere within which is a planetary system of
electrons.” Finally the heroine lives happily
married “within the outer suburban circle of the
Federal Capital of Australia.” Collectors of the
curious shouldn’t miss this wondrous production—
at sixpence.
Reid Murphy, the astonishing Victorian
P M., declined the other day to give a girl more
than ss. a week for the support of her illegal
infant, as “ the making of a larger order might
only act as an inducement to other girls to become
lax in their morals ” :
Melb. Public Library, now petitioning
Premier Bent for £25,000 yearly for three years,
with which to erect new library buildings, is
visited by twice as many people daily as the read-
ing-room of the British Museum, and costs exactly
one-tenth as much in upkeep. There are, at pre-
sent, only one-third of the total number of books
available for the public, others having to be
stored, owing to lack of room. The big Felton
bequest has forced on the Trustees the need of
further accommodation. Under it, £BOOO a year
is available for the purchase of works of art, and,
within seven years, as much will have been spent
on pictures and sculpture as during the whole pre-
vious existence of the National Gallery. Apart
from old masters, Melbourne should have an art
collection second to no city in the world in another
20 years.
• * * *
From the men’s point of view :
The present Sydney tramway trouble started with the
posting of notices in the union boxes at the car depots,
inviting members to roll up and air their grievances, and
hearken to “startling disclosures of official ineptitude.”
While most of the lads were asking what on earth “ in-
eptitude ” was, came the order to remove the notices, and
at Newtown, Lawton, president of the union, refused, on
the ground that permission had been granted to post
notices, and that he couldn’t remove them without the
union’s sanction. The boxes were then removed by order
of the authorities. This occurred on the Friday, and,
following the usual procedure in serious cases,. Lawton
should have been suspended on the Saturday. As
it happened, meetings, at which strong things were
alleged against the secret service, or “pimping” system,
and the new magnetic car brake, took place on the fol-
lowing Monday and Tuesday, and on the Wednesday
Lawton was dismissed, ostensibly for insubordination —
really (according to the men) for daring, even though off
duty and at a private meeting, to exercise his civil right
of freedom of speech. The wearing of a gaudy tie or high-
heeled boots is classed as insubordination in the Victorian
railways, so the term seems rather comprehensive.
Whether it is sweeping enough to gather in a man for re-
fusing to shift an independent notice is, the men main-
tain, a debatable point. Certainly the boss who attempted
to censor the wording of, say, an A.W.U. or Wharf
Laborers’ notice would be looking for trouble.
Victorian State schools haven’t yet re-
covered from the starvation regime instituted by
Alexander Peacock. At Bruthen, in the eastern
mountains, the school-room is so rotten that the
school ma’am recently sprained her ankle by put-
ting her foot through the floor. Minister Cameron
went to inspect the place, and poked holes with
his umbrella in the floors and walls. Ihe school
is to be rebuilt. By the time you can stick your
umbrella through the wall in many places you can
mostly rely on getting a new school in Victoria.
Discerning Mr. Murphy sees
The dangers of the foolish plan
Of giving frailty its fees,
And taxing weak, misguided man.
Reluctantly, and red with shame,
He tells of girls depraved, who may
Take up the old, maternal game
On business lines, and make it pay,
If only foolish magistrates
Will give them rather higher rates.
An extra bob or two a head
Will shatter virtue’s final guard ;
The tax on bachelors would spread
A baby farm in every yard.
To populate our empty lands
Bring black or brown across the seas
From Hindu, Jap, or coral strands,
But lighten not the penalties
For hearing babes. Such clemence vile
Might make it worth a woman’s while.
vie.
D.


GOOD SALARIES await our Postal Graduates
in Business and Technical Subjects.
“Home Study” Post Free.
STOTT and HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE.
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY. [i.
CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pill St, SYDNEY APPLIAHCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collies St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY Portab,e Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
UNTON S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining: requisites, &c., &c.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIEB, IHanesing Director.
Are You Interested ?
vH! :T
Xu
IT is a Sound Invest-
-1 ment to add to your
personal property a
good intrinsic article of
Jewellery. But it is not
always convenient to
put down 5, 10, or 20
sovereigns all at once.
Just so. Now this is
where the necessity of
a little philosophy
comes in. And we offer
it you in our EASY
TERMS of purchase of
our famous English
Hall - Marked goods,
JEWELLERY and
WATCHES. No better
goods come from Lon-
don than we stock, and
no greater inducements
in the wide world are
offered you to possess
yourself of the best. We
allow you 7 days’ free
use of our goods, and then if not
proof to your satisfaction we hand
you back your deposit in full.
Write or call to-day for Catalogue
and Particulars, etc.
The ...
df
British Imperial Goldsmiths,
65 PITT STREET (Corner of
Bridge Street), SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Every Australian State concluded its financial
Ck to"strike fV a '’t d theM t ' ,e Treasurers had the bad
luck t° strike a Sunday, so they had to postpone their
presenSrTn^h 24 h ,? urs ’ Exce P t WestraHa, whose
om i lnfu ' 6 s^ b J, ect of lts finances is becoming
all of them had a surplus—or said Him- huH
J. Carruthers presented 7cwt. of figures to prove that
£872 e 588 Ve Treasurer before ; ins surplus was
£1 817 419 h tha . tl , e and •'evenue amounted to
rii i 7:u ’ f hlch P r °bably £950,000 wasn’t revenue at
a ' but the proceeds of the sale of assets, was not menUoned
susnhdon e t e ha?‘H tlo v e «’w WOUlfl have raisefi the horrible
suspicion that the N.S.W. surplus was a bo<>us surolus
after all. As part of his public whoop on Monday morn!
asfets r tn S,, the C sb rUfcher f re ' n , a r ked : “ 1,1 ad *tion to the
150 000,000 acres of land una'lienated!'''xhe'value'of this
find N.S. W. • lmping°on‘ his H N.S. W^when
proce d ed S s“the mntr and ’ P m d ° ff SOM,e of its d ebt with the
proceeds, the matter would be of interest to Cohen • but
Cohe e n f S ? are Sm,plVUSed aS reve nue, where does
In addition to the £900,000 or £950,000 of assets
£°l 4>M n 942 n of a h P 16d t n fake a orpins with, N.S.W. spent
±1,4.14,942 of borrowed money; in other words in this
xtra-gßqd year, N.S.W. fell about £2,395,000 short, of
fmt thnt fc fh Way ° Ut ° £ revenu e—i and that in spite of the
f vet that the revenue was £930,014 greater than in 1904 5.
?edu cedZ £4°4 W 5 S 4O0 OVVe n e r r ’ 'X ‘ heloan expenditure
reduced by £445,406. But only £68,999 less was spent on
works and services ; the balance was made up of £376 407
resumptions. Tne N.S.W. position has improved of
course ; but it is still hardly within sight of being satis-
hß ? ry h A l nd i t,sr : t Kkely to be satisfactory so lohg as
to cover up the Truth!" d ““ lunacy are used
? 6nt ha , S not yet q uite made up
: Ben V sfi^ure 1S larjLre, and slow, and takes a
n * while to make up — but a surplus of £7OO 000
jessed at. His revenue' was £287,969 more thfn it wa” in
the pi eyious year, when he had a surplus of about £5OO 000 •
and as the expenditure is supposed to have been onlv a’
ti med’ £7oo nnn ° f tha , fc L°, r 1904 - 5 > the previously mim
tioned £700,000 is probably near the mark. Add to T
Bents credit that he hasn’t borrowed anything except
for renewal purposes, has paid the expenses of the
3- a outof revenue, and that the Victorian grab of
land-sale money amounts to under £250,000 and the
Victor.au man’s total is something to be almost proud of?
exSrfence 1 :-' 1 haS had this rem arkable five years’
Loan
Expenditure
1902 £3 e 535 n 069 Expenditure.
1903 " f’Sft’ans £3,967,001 £1,593,628
luof " 3,520,465 3,717,806 1 213 746
loot ” 3,595,440 3,607,864 616299
1905 .. 3,595 399 3,581 403 9ii’a wi
m* .. 3,853,522 S®
£997 6°24 n b X u P t el t I here r i e ’ durin S fch e year just closed was
£127 810 \nd ti ! IS , a S, !!' plus on revenue account of
£ msu thls n . lakes the net increase in the debt
£169,814. Every mam head of revenue in the State shows
an ;ncrease except one-territorial. The decreas? the e
flnA? 1 - a " 8 ? 8 ,nai .P. l y from the diminished sales of public
as safclsfaotor y as is the increase elsewhere
Moreover, the progress goes on. And the Queensland
Treasurer can standit without breaking under the strain
the whole of last year’s surplus could be com!
fortablj mopped up m painting and repairing the vast
buddings and works which past “ business ” Government.?
loaded on to the State. There probably isn’t another
country in the world that looks as though it wanted a
coat of paint so badly as Queensland.
. The figures for S. Australia and Tasmania are
incomplete ; but in the former a surplus of about £B9 non
is expected, and in the latter. Xre the usuaf liS
surplus was provided for in the Estimates, the revenue
has got about £34,000 ahead of the forecast, so there
should be a small surplus there also. S. Australia pro
poses to use its surplus to wipe out a small fraction of its
Biggest Debt per Head on Earth; but the other Trea
surers are mostly silent on the subject. In Queensland'
however, surpluses go that way as a matter of X The
this way 6 ;— nUe poSltlon for two - vears Past shows up in
xr c w i „ 1904-5. 1905-6.
N.S Wales .. £11,336,918 £12,267,532 Inc. £930 614
Victoria .. 7,509,657 7,797 626 Inc 287’q69
Queensland .. 3,595,399 3 853,522 In?.' 258 123
S. Australia .. 2,725,725 2 807 540 Inc 81815
Tasmania .. 852 ,681 ’900,764 Ino. 48,’083
The expenditure figures are not yet definite enough to
P'^. 1 , nto a ta We ; and, as before mentioned, the “com-
plete silence of Westralia is becoming oppressive Per-
d°eSn fc Want t 0 diBturb the oth P er Treasurers’
* > * * *
in I the d snfech Well when a statement made
Ipicuouslv .lnablP ° pen ! n S- of Parliament is con-
ODening of N 8 w I b ? ar lns pection. At the recent
opening of N.S.W. Parliament his Ex. was made to
forecast an unprecedented surplus.” Joe’s surplus is
tTt S nCed as .- e 8?«’ 000 - and N.S.W. has twice beaten
£96r 3 e i9! n 1881 With £1 ’ 487 ’ 207 ’ and again in
* * * *
g°°d deal has been said lately about the pos-
sible position of Australian policy-holders in foreign
companies that have given up business here, and apm
rently it may be a very bad position unless the Australian
e of’n r elt B J way of illustration, con-
pase ° f Darling and others versus the Eagle
is I soUd old PngHsh m raontb at Adelaide - The Eagle
is a solid old English life assurance concern. It will be
£3°{K)0 a OO0 O o d f funds/ 6 " J! 10ntlls fro,n now. It has neatly
ftand Hke i ’£ d f reputation that is supposed to
being the kind of Tory who thinks that anything English
must be good, rushed to insure his life in it Not being
f S o 0 r£ C 2M th He a n S aid e :; aS * later he onlyinS
£ ; h 2‘ n 0 a po . licy for £ 283 10s. In’the A.M.P?
have turned the £269 lor fi e .same space of years would
Drobahll morn Th° P S hO i V mto one for £4o ° or more-
businesJafler?' vnl' i Ea " le c . eased to seek Australian
flVXfld Tnhn very iong run in this country, but it still
wemiums aid W l -i BrB e ( and ot - ber P eo P le ’ s Australian
ft vX ! l att ° rn ey m Adelaide to represent
it. Last year old rich, influential John died and his
honestrid BritfshP C °, lleC f t fr , om fche Ea ? le > and that
honest old British Fowl refused to pay unless they went to
h o wl or | ,°nl 0 H le | t V, The claim w «s admitted! The llgle?
Hf I «r 6 ff d ’l bad a , n attorne y in Adelaide for a long
through hi? arl T4^. S d m ath ’ ? nd COuld have made payment
through him. It could post out its cheque if it no longer
has an attorney But it won’t. Of course it Wouldn’t
P ay * be , exe outors to go all the way to London
for a miserable £283 10s. ; it would cost them
Tnm 4 for J ourne J r - Possibly that is what
n mrtow T“ C ° : (founded in 1807) is reckoning
i ? t seems thlVlf fl^H* poLcies P a l’ able in Australif
s , ' l flat ’y refuses to pay in Australia. The
lint' in!L? eC has therefo . re appointed John Dar-
or propertv’of 8 to T laj ' hls han ds on any revenues
SA W rt Lo f -K? i Eag e Insurance Co. he can find in
k P° sslb ly he won’t find any. If he does find
premium'^ 6 nf 6S t 0 S^ ze they " m P r ° b ably be only the
o rphamsm ,ov !”'• otber . Policy-holders whose widows and
orpnans may receive similar treatment when they die.
an"ohf snf^ Stion . S fc , hafc no ' v ar ise are these two :If
Eai.de ’ l i,r- t a leg frP utable concern, like the
Putin , hvH l^ bUn “ to . thed ' s «'- ac «°f bavi ns: a receiver
an Su P r ;:nie Court, rather than keep faith with
vrit^Au fc^«t/iipol^y ' holder (no "' that the n°* is done
f the I,latter of £283 10s., what may be
fs muohlsrT 9 e A S f re P utab,e CO, when the sum at issue
arew™itfcF l Also > If heirs of John Darling—who
law asthev i' 68 ' u eiltla, t an d able to pay for as much
their while lo coul d also, if it seemed worth
tnen while, afford to throw mud publicly at the Eagle in
P osSTIh 1 Kngla " d -get this kindoAreatmor.t.Vhat
hme P wirln,. th i e for 8< ?“ e P° or » ignorant, unbusiness-like
life wnranl' who would no more know how to tackle a
wmdd ?„ at the otber side of the world than she
Quite „ o' ”!'’ l0 ( "„ to . *l° fishing for the Jabberwock 1
here •>!- a " of British companies have done business
of i„e;r o, ' e J m - ie ° r another, and then departed, and many
nothin,r P oll ° les still be floating round ; to say
hel lhv n in 6 £ , 1 -' 00U i°00 of Australian life assurance
nl «t»if» i«!, thre i e blg Auie rican offices, the total amount
onlv,m..fJ erylar 8 e i a,| d the evidence shows that the
foreign 6 guarantee for Australian policy-holders in
Innf’ i„ C ,i I T ame ? 18 4° make these companies always
ile.t win tie , la ! l< s . of the Federal Treasurer securities
that will equal the full present value of their liabilities.
>nnie Minister Deakiti is very
behind ° ver the matter. But there is a rumor that,
«h,saffab,l,ty, he has a Bill which will bring the
,l 1 co, s right up to the scratch. If so, the sooner
: b 1 tumor materialises into a fact the better. The
hii.m 6r 5"! at ‘°" a of a city are always reformed after a
chmdd , h een 'un over, and foreign life insurance co.’s
t i r!" k ! r ‘d attention they deserve when the
g cat John Darling’s executors can’t promptly collect on
a foreign life insurance policy,
* * * «
The undercurrent of jealousy over the loan
monopoly in Victoria has forced some
i‘°„ 1 to Ji be smface over the proposed Melbourne city
n.id 1 ' A- 6 P 1 fc,v seeing that money was plentiful,
a a d Vl ?®d, no doubt, by brokers who either do not like
J'. wntl 's as su ch, or who object, on philanthro-
} ° .Krouuds, to pocket 1 per cent, beyond the
usual commission, decided to float on its own.
.. e has been much back-patting over this de-
the°Ep’ > OU S h , tbere nt 'ed not have been, for
the secunty offered by the City Fathers is about the best
an d their bonds are wisely favored by those
ho have cash to lend. Hence for two reasons those on
I p r!!!i!f rv 7 ltin ? Slde did not do wisely or well to sniff
„ be m f contem Pt at the loan. They made enemies
when there was no need to do such a thing, and this led
to questions being asked why the late Board of Works’
little float fell so flat. There is no doubt the anti-under-'
wntmg crusade is popular, but whether the anti-
underwriting crowd has the money wherewith to back its
opinions is another matter.
* * ♦ *
Launceston is one of the few cities in the Com-
monwealth that haven’t trams. Clarke and Co., the
Melbourne stock and sharebrokers, have now offered to
loim a powerful syndicate ”to make tramways in the
commercial capital” of Tas., if the city council will
, 'concessions.” The terms are that the syndicate
shall have the use of the streets, get cheap electric
power from the corporation, pay no rates, and have the
trams for 21 years, after which the council can take them
over on terms eminently favorable to the syndicate. By
t at time the syndicate will probably have got so much
influence that the terms will be exceedingly favorable.
The lines are to be each three miles long, and there are
to be twopenny and penny sections. The council is
considering.” Often the council that considers is lost.
* * * *
Following on the success of the State-built
electric tramway from St. Hilda to Brighton, Vic. Premier
Bent has authorised the electrification of the three-mile
strip of railway between Brighton and Sandringham—in
the heart of his own electorate. The conversion of this
line is to be an experiment, upon the result of which will
hang the conversion of the whole of the suburban rail-
ways. It will vender partially useless the magnificent
station which Thomas had built for his constituents at a
cost of £7OOO only a couple of years ago. Sandringham is
an out-of-the-way, dead-end station, patronised only in
summer by the Melbourne boy and his “tart” and
the family with a basket of sandwiches ; and its endeavors
to live up to that £7OOO station have been pathetic.
* * ■» *
The Maokiland Govebnment Accident In-
surance Department :
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for CJnex- Re- Re-
nnm Profit, pired Risks, serves, serves.
•• £4 o 9 fi £3780 £316 £4,096
•• 14,171 931 240 691 5,027
1903 .. 24,449 4758 4510 248 9 785
1904 .. 24,188 54-18 978 4440 15203
1905 .. 24,876 6572 80 6492 21,775
The reserve for unexpired risks—which isn’t the truest
sort of reserve—amounts to £9588, leaving the general
reserve funds at £12,187. The claims last year amounted
to £11,242, so the accumulated funds, even apart from
the reserve held against unearned premiums (on unex-
pired risks), is already more than enough to pay a
whole year’s average claims. Last year’s income, after
paying working expenses, could have covered claims 58 per
cent, in excess of those actually paid. If something bad
should happen to make the claims this year over two-
and-a-half times greater than the average, the office could
pay them, and still keep its reserves to cover unexpired
risks intact. And the office is only five years old. The
credit of the whole State is behind it, and that was a
great thing to start with ; but it looks now as if the
credit will never have to be turned into cash. As a
matter of fact, all the actual “subscribed” capital the
office ever had was £looo—the amount which it bor-
rowed from the State, and paid back over 12 months ao-o.
It was told before it started that it would need £25,000
at least, and that most likely it would soon lose all that
Private Enterprise is busy telling the same kind of yarn
about the life assurance department that the Australian
Commonwealth ought to promptly establish. These
figures are the best answer to that nonsense.
So far, the income of the M.L. Accident Insur-
ance Department has been accounted for as follows
Claims. Expenses. Reserves
£2 ° 8 2 p.c. £45 3 4 p.c. £34 8 6p.c.
1902 .. 51 19 3 „ 41 9 4 ~ 611 5
1903 .. 54 2 3 „ 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 ”
1904 .. 50 1 3 „ 27 11 3 „ 22 7 6 ”
1905 .. 45 310 „ 28*'7 9 „ 26 8 5 ”
Expenses are pretty heavy ; but that seems inevitable in
a concern where there is so , much waste through the
competition to handle the workers’ pennies. The model
accident insurance concern, within its limits, is that run
It C , e ?/ r lnecfclon with N.S.W. mines ; if a man works at a
N.S. W. mine with nine or more others, he is insured as a
matter of course, and no canvasser wears out tongue and
boot-sole pursuing him and explaining to him that every
other canvasser is a humbug, and should have been
christened Joseph. Also the employer deducts the in-
surance premium as a matter of course when he pays the
wages, and hands the amount over to a committee, with
a5O p.c. subsidy of his own to keep it warm. The total
expenses are 2J per cent.—£2 10s. 2d. percent., to be
exact. Of course, this is making a State monopoly of the
business if it is a business. Heaven only knows how-
ever, why any capitalist should have the right to make a
business of it, and grind dividends out of workmen’s
broken bones. And, anyway, there’s the difference
between £2 10s. 2d. per cent, and £2B 7s. 9d. per cent, to
ponder over—a difference which goes in expenses instead
of in relief to the sufferers from accident.
The Argus Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne)
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Apru, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1897 .. £204 Nil £291 £1647
1898 .. 223 Nil 181 £42 1689
1899 .. 198 Nil 339 1548
1900 .. 472 Nil 440 32 1580
.1901 .. 1275 Nil 1762 1093
J 99 ;* " 1494 3 p.c. =£sos 1113 969
1903 .. 1607 3„ „ 505 963 139 1108
1904 .. 1466 3 „ ~ 505 973 1096
1905 .. 1416 3„ „ 505 980 1027
1906 .. 1332 4 „ 673 398 261 1288
This is probably wrong; if it is, the accounts are
responsible. It is just as likely that the profits for
IJOo were £926 and the amount written off £490, and that
, ts a / or 1999 " -ere £1133 and the amount written
off £199. There is a contingent reserve fund, to which
annual additions of £5OO have been for some time made.
.is l |ln d was used, it was understood, to provide for re-
pairs and additions to properties, But, though the report
now says that the repairs and additions have been paid
for out of the contingency fund, they ate also charged in
the accounts to profit and loss. To square things, the
amount of the writing-off has, therefore, been doubled in
) ? (ofcyorng ; and the chances are that that is wrong,
nut i t looks the best thing to do under the circumstances,
.suspicion is thus cast upon all the figures of the society ;
and it doubtful whether the large writings-off
trom personal balances” in past years, which were
charged to profit and loss, were really written off in
addition to the amounts written off the contingent fund.
Building society accounts have a habit of appearing in a
j i? u ’ even , though a satisfactory explanation can no
doubt be made in this, as in most other cases, the
accounts of borrowing concerns, above all others, shoudn’t
need explaining,
r^ e Argus Society’s figures have altered little
during the past year
TWnc-i 1900 1904 1905 1906
'• •• £10,153 £12,359 £14,455 £14,598
Overdraft .. .. 3,054 _ 2 5
>!'l°n • • 4,467 8,200 8,204 8,204
Ousn Balance .. 777 737 __
Advances .. 35,305 3 7, 441 40,813
iT'L S 2 Cl -? ty i ha ® increased its advances a trifle, until
rof ll . s asfc shilling- out. Its deposits are, however,
° t ,. c ; ht ; avy -. th0,1 r h ot £41,338 out ill advances and
t^ e ! t ' , o,lly . £18 ' 113 is shareholders’ money.
iS'?*'"Sthat deposiitors' and other creditors’ money
hevnnr| b ni l’ l '°'' i l ded shrinkage in value didn’t get
a very fair margin' m * ! a " d thttt at present see,,,s
*°* * *
lon.Ln 00 f min f? of the Broken Hill mines in
aild J - Bull ought soon to be in a
stock ,? ' i t 0 re ® e, ve a large consignment of Barrier
olemv t d tlle pe pP le who are behind the boom have
Sn™ „„i P F y i l,m w,t . h ‘ Batest shriek is from the
tonniurp ?'■ t ! a t fc Baper is reckoned of large enough
, Zf„i J .V Sfc,fv , thc • Aus tralian papers in borrowing
, k „“ printing ,t under Jialf n-dozen head-lines.
Svnvi.'t h MAn 1 ' He,^ i,d * whose ancient spinster aunt, tlie
ha live.nn !i Pr ° Ud iV a,u| o un ced the other day that it
broke Inf-n H C a » w U "?u ered P'umises for 50 years,
broke into this.— Wealth of Broken Hill Ore in
£l7 000000 h I, 1 - 0 ’ 000 ' 000 ',,,. Profit 'alue estimated at
„„V’ !;\ 000 ‘, Prosperous Times Ahead.” The “profit
vahie has been arrived at In this way:— ' 1
been + con , ditions working expenses have
at £l6 no ,■' takmg silver at 30d, per ounce, and lead
savtinir?’ tU i - l ' ud ? on “ would yield a net profit of,
smti 1 ' nn. 'V "! , the Progress of time, with exten-
sion or operations, there should he some ability to
re tent! cm °of' th, C ° BtS pei '. ton of ore treated, and with
retention of the same price of metals secure greater
pront. But the quantity of crude ore in sight at 15s
Profit would equal, say, £5,250,000. ~Tlie quiim
11 ty of tailings on the dumps, plus the Quantity to hp
secured from about n ,Million tons of crude ore in sight
and sHvefaMiOd'", at £2& per ton ' lead at £l6 per ton’
profit o f 12s b 6H d ' Pel ;° U,1 ° e * WOUId ’ ic is estimated, give a
sterling L™ , fco . n > or something over nine millions
sterling. Hence there is a grand aggregate nrnfit- in 1,1
of over £17,000,000 sterling ” aggregate pioht 1.1 sight
Come down from this hifalutin to the hard facts.
At los. per ton for silver-lead in the ore, the Broken Hill
ui'd at'Vy ha , f ' y - ea *' have Illade a profit of £225,716,
£75 000 on h S ?. no t ' Uire would have been another
n , e quantity of that metal treated; total,
£3OO, <l6. But, even counting in £60,000, which was put
to suspense, as not having been safely earned, the
proht was only £256,959. And that was the record
of the Broaen Hill Prop., by far the most successful of
all the cos., m by far the most successful of its recent
teuns. What the Broken Hill Prop, directors think of
the average metal prices of that half-year can be sized
up from this extract from their report“An item of
£60,000 is placed to sundry creditors as Zinc Concern
trates Suspense Account. This reservation is necessary
inasmuch as advance payments for certain quantities of
concentrates have been made on the. basis of the pre-
sent high price of spelter, while the adjustment or final
accounts have to be made upon the average of a 12-
monthly period ’’ Other Broken Hill mines did not
approach the B. H. Prop.’s level. On sulphides Block 14,
for instance, last half-year made a profit Of only 6s per
ton. And as for the value of the tailings, Block 10
which can command a higher price than a fry other Barrier
concern, lately sold a parcel to the Gillies Syndicate
for 6s. per ton Block 14 has sold tailings down to about
3s. per ton If the tailings are worth more than this, the
Broken Hill cos. will not get the benefit of it, auvhow
and the possible extra profit must be disregarded in
reckoning up the value of the shares.
No trust at all can be placed upon the likelihood
of lower working costs increasing the Broken Hill profits
Ten years experience with the sulphides has shown that
improvements made in order to reduce costs and increase
recoveries have been neutralised by the increasing diffi-
culties in the way of getting the metal out. Minin"-
costs at the B.H. South were thus 12s. o'Bd. per ton last
half as against 10s. 10"2d. per ton the previous half,
lo produce a ton of concentrates cost £4 2s. 24d
m the first half of 1905; it cost £4 13s. 84d. in
the second half; and the dearer concentrates were bv
fai the poorer. Then no investor in his senses would
figure 011 the present prices of metals being maintained.
In the half-year to December, 1902, the profit at the
Broken Hill South—then reckoned one of the most suc-
cessful of Barrier mines—was only 2s. sd. per ton of ore
which is some distance from the pretty 275. 6d per ton
estimated by the Statist for the benefit of J Bull The
difference between the two is that the 2s. sd. is something
that actually happened only four years ago • the
27s 6d. is a beautiful dream. Such a profit is quite pos-
sible under the most favorable conditions; but the man
who considers only the most favorable Conditions when
he buys is likely to be left nursing a very troublesome
infant.
*** “ *
Wild-cats are expected to appear in consider-
able numbers in the Barrier district during the next six
months or so. Nearly every old claim about Broken
Hill, abandoned in the early days on account of the
toughness of the sulphide problem or for less satisfactory
reasons, and which has long since been lost through lon°-
disuse and the obliterating character of the shifting
western landscape, is being rediscovered and pegged.
Adelaide speculators have representatives almost con-
stantly on the look-out for"something to snap, and the
methods of some of these individuals, if not frank
are certainly fearless and free.” One city man
went out to Yanco Glen, the other day, to peg
a couple of promising tin blocks for a syndicate
he had in tow. He had previously expatiated on
the value of these blocks, which were in the vicinity of a
splendid outcrop, and they had proved such an enticing
bait for the syndicate that money was to be had for the
asking. The advance agent, thinking himself the only
Richmond in the field, put one peg in each of the two
blocks he had his eye on,.and retired to the pub. near by
to swap specimens with the prospectors gathered there.
Next morning he discovered that other and more careful
prospectors had come while he slept and ornamented his
coveted blocks with the orthodox four pegs each and
held legal possession. But it didn’t tax his resourceful-
ness to get out of that difficulty. He simply went a bit
further afield and pegged out two other blocks. The
country thereabouts is full of blocks.
* * * *
In the early days of the Barrier, when Euriowie
boasted four pubs, and a host of prospectors, each of
whom had a Sydney mansion secreted somewhere in his
swag, a Lofidon financier came to the field with money
sticking all over him like wax on the legs of a bee. He
wanted to put a fabulous sum into Euriowie tin, if he
could get a good option ; but every man who had a
shovelful of dirt “ on surface” opened his mouth so wide
that the financier gathered up his money bags and
fled in dismay. There is another boom on at Eurio-
wie now, and Adelaide syndicates are nibbling
But nothing in the way of a reliable development has vet
occurred. There is some life in the field, and good patches
of oxide of tin have recently been found. One show in
particular has a lode with which it is expected to tickle
the pockets of English capitalists. The stuff brought into
Broken Hill from this show should draw speculators as
cheese does mice.
* * * •
The B.H. British has a good body of carbonates
between the first and second levels of “Marsh’s section.
Broken Hill mines don’t go nap on carbonates now, as
they used to; but rich carbonates are usually found
sitting on a good sulphide lode, and that’s a different
matter. The whole of the southern workings at the 100 ft.
and 200 ft. levels are in the most promising kind of country
for carbonates to live in. The appearance of the car-
bonate body in the end of the southern drive is, how-
ever, the most interesting feature of the develop-
ment, for there are unmistakable signs there that
the lode is big and persistent. In the northern
drive, same level, a big body of good grade
sulphides is going down to the level beneath. The shoots
twist about a good deal, and it is possible that one of the
rich bodies which the British has cut may be found in the
Junction North. But that is only a hazard.
* » - .
Mining people have been asking for months
past what had become of the Broken Hill South’s new
mill. The most elaborate experiments have been carried
out with appliances intended, if found suitable, to form
part of it. The adoption of the grinding-pan to get the
product ready for concentration has crystallised the new
mill scheme into something definite, and now all is bustle
on the mine.
* * * *
Some enthusiastic remarks have lately been
made by the B.H. South mine people regarding their new
development at 970 ft. The ore is richer than what was
found in the level above ; but that was only what every-
one who knew anything about it expected. The market
long ago discounted that development. But along with
improvement ih values comes a change from a calcite to
a rhodonite gangue ; and that wasn’t looked for. More-
over, it is not a pleasant surprise, for the rhodonite renders
the stuff less amenable to concentration than almost any
other ore in the mine ; and that is a serious set-off to its
richness. Ask the Junction North what rhodonite
means.
* * ♦ *
Rumor of ft profitable development in B.H. Junc-
tion originated through some small patches of good ore,
assaying about 26 per cefit. lead, being come across at
600 ft. on the east lode. But the average of the face was
only 14 per cent. You must expect things like this from
the Junction.
* * * »
Block 10 (Broken Hill) is still in a bad way
regarding ore production. Spite of all assertions to the
contrary, there is a bad squeeze in the upper level work-
ings, and the job of recovering lost working faces is
slow. The drive which was being carried on the ore body
at the 1215 ft. level was worked for all it was worth, the
whole of the face, 45ft. wide, being taken out. But that
had to be stopped, and the mill has had to go slow ever
since. Melbourne Aliens had a scare wire concerning the
subsidence of the power-house, But it isn’t as bad as
that ; anyway-, at the time the message appeared, there
wasn’t the slightest alteration in the state of the founda-
tions of those works. Still it may come in time. Camp-
bell shaft is still good enough to let the ropes run
through, but, beyond that, no man knows what condi-
tion it is in above the 600 ft.
* * * *
Following on the recent satisfactory develop-
ments at Homeward Bound, Wyalong (N.S.W.), where
almost pure sulphide ore is being raised in small'blocks,
similar ore has been struck at the Young Australia!!,
This claim is east of the Junction, and was lately pur-
chased for a trifle by the Junction Co. Depth is 300 ft.
Three distinct reefs have been proved on the Mallee Bull
line, and it is possible that this latest development is a
continuation south of the eastern reef of the True Blue.
E. E. Tyler, partowner of the True Blue, who has helped
a lot in developing this field, is about to quit for Queens-
land, to take charge of a foreign syndicate’s property.
The Keep-it-Dark supplies another good crushing—so
tons of mixed stone treated at Cockle Creek yielded l°BBoz
* * * *
Crowl Creek (N.S. W.) has apparently tired out
J. O. Armstrong, and he has gone to Cobar to succeed
local-manager Trewenack—in a job that he might have
had before the latter was appointed; but at that time
his Crowl Creek interests held him back.
The Aldershot Smelting Works (Queensland)
were closed down in a hurry, early in the year, rio-ht on
top of an announcement by the manager that” more
hands were to be taken on, and that a new era of
prosperity would be entered upon. Before the half-
year had ended all hands had been discharged, and the
furnace bottoms removed and sent to Europe for realisa-
tion, and now caretakers are in charge of what looks like
a hopeless derelict. From the inception, the Aldershot
Smelter has been a concern with a curse. On one or two
occasions in its history it has appeared as if hard work
combined with a bit of luck, would pull it out of
the mud; but the curse survives. Exactly what
that curse is cannot be mentioned in cold print. About
20 years ago the Queensland Smelting Co. was floated
and it acquired by purchase over 1000 acres of freehold
land, which certain maps and plans indicated as being in
the centre of a big mining district. Similarly, it was stated
the land was coal-bearing, likewise it was connected by a
sti earn with the sea. All this was in accordance with
fact-provided one wasn’t too particular about the coal
and the stream, &c. Later, when the works were to be
erected, and part of the land was cut up to be sold, plans
were published showing the fine stream which connected
with the sea, and depicting ships sailing up to the works.
But this was a bit too strong ; and the enthusiastic man-
ner in which the public did not bid for the blocks of land
could be photographed, or cut with an axe. The usual


Isha Best Tobacco
the world can
produce.-
6d.
per
ounce.
3 STRENGTHS
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.^
/
/
A
e
fl oz. Tins l/=
4oz. Tins 2/-
Boz. Tins 3/9
' Sold Loose only by
A. A. MARKS,
/ 376 George St.
'3lO George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
man‘‘from Ome” then arrived and erected the works.
If it had been a dredge plant he was putting up, the
site chosen right on the edge of the creek—would
have been a good one. The imported engineer does not
always understand Australian conditions, particularly'
sub-tropical conditions, and in this case the prospect of
floods demolishing the works was laughed to scorn. Yet
on two or three occasions the Aldershot works have been
on the verge of a trip to the Pacific. E. A. Weinberg
happened along as managing director, and he debated as
to whether it would be cheaper to shift the works or
shift the saltwater stream. He dealt with the stream ;
he dammed it, and later, when the alleged coal
supply did not turn up to any extent, and the
ore supplies were not forthcoming, it is said he did
something similar to the works. Then it rained hard,
arid the works were flooded out. Weinberg drew the
fires, saved his own and his men’s lives, and quitted the
show. He was a manager who knew when to come in out
of the wet. The co. was short of money (its chronic
state), and Cohen stepped in with a debenture issue.
Dyson and then Dunn tried to beat the natural conditions
by hard work. The co. acquired an interest in Ravens-
wood mines, and also secured the Pinnacles, near Broken
Hill, for lead supplies. At this juncture things brightened,
and the co. commenced to make profits—only little ones,
but profits. How it made them is not quite clear.
Latterly', in an attempt to reduce costs by treating a
greater tonnage, it was not successful. Relatively heavy
losses resulted ; Ravenswood ores became poor, the ex-
chequer ran dry', the Pinnacles mine did not float, and
the show closed down..
It is improbable that Cohen will be persuaded
to put any' more money into Aldershot. Apart from the
fact that at any moment during the rainy season the
works are liable to have from 6ft. to 7ft. of water running
through them, the situation of the works, as a customs
smelter, puts it out of the running. For a start, Mary-
borough is a transhipment port. Large vessels cannot
approach it. Assuming that the port is made available
to large steamers (which is not likely), then the Aldershot
works, to compete successfully' for ores, will require to
be put on the banks of the Mary River. The costs inci-
dental to landing the ores at Maryborough and railing
them to Aldershot, then railing the products back to
Maryborough for realisation abroad, exhaust the profit
that is possible in purchased ores to-day. It was popu-
larly supposed that Aldershot had the advantage of cheap
coke and fluxes. But that was all flam. Aldershot has
all along paid probably' double the price for coke that
Cockle Creek and Dapto pay.
Suggested that the debenture-holders will take
over the Aldershot concern, and put in an up-to-date plant
to deal with the product of the Pinnacles mine. This
isn’t likely. Payable lead smelting at Aldershot under
existing circumstances is practically impossible, unless
the ore is secured at about nothing per ton. And the
German buyers will see that sort of ore as quickly as any-
one, and buy it for something payable per ton.
Stated that the surveyors have been invited to
reconsider the route selected for taking the Etheridge
line over the Newcastle Range ; and Engineer Frew,
fresh back from those parts, has gone to Melbourne to
consult. This may mean all sorts of things ; but many
“outbackers” were surprised at the wonderful facility
with which the Newcastle Range was overcome in the
first instance. Meanwhile Knox, Schlapp, Melbourne
and Co. (it is said that Knox and Schlapp have taken
Melbourne into partnership) are moving along at Olon-
curry, where there is no range to cross.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) during June treated 17,004 tons
stone for 99180 z. gold ; this shows a fall of 23800 z. in
yield, though 101 tons more ore went through. Divs.
were £25,425, calls £4732. Chief producers : Scottish
Gympie, 7650 tons for 37230 z. ; No. 2 S. Great Eastern,
5110 tons for 22730 z., or Bdwt. 21gr. per ton ; S. Glanmire
and Monkland, 1348 tons for 5410 z., or about Bdwt. per
ton ; No. 1 N. Oriental and Glanmire, 670 tons for 5280 z.
Dividends this month were : Scottish 7Jd., 2 S. Great
Eastern 6d., and IN. Oriental and Glanmire 3d. During
the past six months 101,420 tons yielded 59,0630 z. gold ;
dividends were £76,339, calls £26,851. Compared with
first half of last year, there is a slight increase in tonnage,
but the output has fallen 91260 z., and dividends £29,846.
The six months’ dividends from the two chief mines—
Scottish and No. 2 S. Great Eastern —amount to £66,675,
leaving less than £lO,OOO for the rest of the field. Gympie
is relying on an area of 60 or 70 acres, the richer ore
bodies of which have been worked.
It it it it
Prospectus of the Great Northern Co. has been
issued at Gympie (Q.), and, as Gympie certainly wants
some new country developed, the scheme deserves en-
couraging. It is practically a co-operative attempt to
pick up ore-bearing reefs at Two Mile, and so expenses
are cut down to the bone. The co. is even trying to
struggle on to its feet without paying anything for
brokerage.
* * * *
First report of the very latest Chillagoe (Q.)
reconstruction has been issued. The old co. was the New
Chillagoe Railway and Mines ; the newest co. is plain
Chillagoe Co., Ltd. In 1903 the co. made a loss of
£18,705 ; this was after paying £30,483 on account of de-
benture interest and expenses. From the railway alone
the excess of receipts over working expenses that year
was £34,229. In 1904 the total loss was £35,618, in-
cluding £31,233 debenture interest and expenses. The
excess of receipts over working expenses on the railway
alone was £28,185. This was to December, 1904. The
accounts just issued are mixed ; some of the figures cover
the whole 15 months to March 31,1906 ; others cover only
the 12 months to that date. For the 12 months alone a
profit of £533 is shown ; this is after providing £9965 for
depreciation. Practically nothing had been allowed on
this account in previous years. A very substantial im-
provement in net results is thus shown, though-, for the
past 12 months, only £17,440 had to be provided.for de-
benture interest, not much more than half what was
called for in previous years. This improvement is due
mostly to the railway. Here are railway figures for three
years and three months :
Working Balance
Receipts. Expenses, over Exes.
1903 .. ..£60,300 £26,071 £34,229
1904 .. .. 50,112 21,927 28,185
1905 .. .. 63,871 23,753 10,118
1906(3 months).. 14,503 5,777 8,726
For this current year a balance of between £50,000 and
£55,000 is estimated ; and to produce that the figures for
the first three months will have to be improved upon.
Of course, increased O.K. and other traffic is to be looked
for ; but those people will drive a harder bargain with the
co. than it has hitherto been accustomed to from the
folks who have had to use its line. As for the mines,
they can only be summed up this way : Products for the
year realised on are valued at £128,048 ; and ore-raising,
transport, charges, etc., came to £131,867 —this is without
rent, interest, management expenses, etc. Certainly
there have been improvements lately at some of the
mines, and better things may possibly' be expected
(also, on the other hand, worse things may
be expected from the metal markets); but there,
so far, are the discreditable figures. On them
what value the eo. has lies in the railway; and
that has to carry a debenture debt of £498,250, besides
£63,151 of other debt; and on top of that there are
700,000 shares, now valued at about 4s. Yet there are
people who quite expect, when the Etheridge railway
extension business is fixed up, that these shares will
jump. Almost anything is possible in connection with
North Queensland mining and similar shares ; but the
whole business is a gamble. Further, Etheridge and the
things hanging on to it are likely to be overshadowed by
Cloncurry.
* * * *
The only decision come to by the O.K. directors
N.Q.) regarding their railway is that the matter can
stand over till the mine is explored a bit deeper. Present
levels are at 80ft., 115 ft. and 150 ft.; the 115 ft. workings
have been stopped, as there was no sense in having three
levels so close together. Apparently the idea that the
directors should think it necessary to know what is below
150 ft. or thereabouts scared the market, and it has been
weak for a fortnight. The most hopeful feature, pending
the disclosures that the drills will make, is that the work-
ings have got down as much as 30ft. in sulphides; and,
though the values are extremely variable, and the ore occur-
rence irregular, this looks like permanency. Present plant
at the shaft is quite incapable of the work it ought to be
doing ; and Shepherd, of Mt. Morgan, who goes up to
take charge, has already in hand plans for a compressor
and winding plant. The office of the co. is still at Cairns
(N.Q.); but Adelaide, which leads the market in the
stock, has just stood on its stiffest leg, and decided that
in future its Exchange will not traffic in scrip that is not
on the Adelaide register.
* * * *
Phillips River copper and gold field (W.A.)
is to be given a thorough test by Charlie Kaufmann, and
for that purpose he has attracted manager G. O. Klug
from the Great Boulder Perseverance, and put him in
charge, with Fred Morgan, who has up to now had
control, as underground boss. Before taking over the
Perseverance Klug was boss of the Fremantle Smelting
Works, of which Kaufmann is the principal holder.
Klug is a Ballarat boy, and they are superseding the
Yankee engineers, who ruled in the days when gas rather
than results was looked for. As regards Phillips River,
Kaufmann has bought up all the shows. He thus dished
the Government smelter, so he has bought that, too.
There are in all some half dozen mines, which have given
very good results, but only picked ore was treated, as
high costs of treatment prohibited the mining of any-
thing low grade. Kaufmann took the Lake View and
Ivanhoe to London, and, as he has all the millionaire
Jews of London at his back, the field will get a chance to
prove its merits. #
Narlarla Hills (W.A.) are about 80 miles east of
Derby, and, although the field has been creating great ex-
citement in Adelaide, people on the spot know little or
nothing of the boomlet. Leases were pegged out there
in 1901 by Bob Pettigrew, one of the original holders of
the Brown Hill, but he eventually abandoned them as
worthless. Government Geologist Woodward was sent
to investigate the alleged silver-lead find which has
caused all the commotion, and he had an invidious task.
Nobody likes to damn a mining field off hand, yet, if a
Government Geologist recommends a wild cat, he runs
the risk of having all sorts of imputations cast at him.
In this case Woodward settled the matter with a loud
emphatic “ damn,” and Narlarla shares went down from
£5O to £2O in one headlong leap.
• * * *
“ T.” (from Westralia): Every steamer leaving
Fremantle for Derby, in the Kimberley district of
Westralia, is thronged with passengers rushing off to the
Narlarla Hills, where fabulous finds are reported to have
been made. The Bullara, on its last trip, was crowded
from stem to stern, and for days before its departure
money was turned away from the counter. The scene on
the quay as it drew off was reminiscent, of a Melbourne
wharf in the days of the Coolgardie rush. And yet out
of all the crowd'ort board there was not a single man who
could give any coherent reason for undertaking the
journey. Vague rumors of mountains of silver and valleys
of gold, of vast deposits of tin, copper, etc., have been
circulated in pubs, and other places frequented. by
digger men, and, as usual, they have solidified into
Gospel truths. And yet men who went to the
first Kimberley rush, and who knew every foot
of the country from Derby to Hall’s Creek, are more than
dubious about the value of the alleged finds. They aver
that the new rush will have even a more disastrous termi-
nation than that of 20 years ago, and it was pretty bad.
Adelaide and Perth syndicates have been formed by
the dozen, with one result—they have relieved a very
much congested labor market. The men engaged for the
Narlarla Hills may consider themselves lucky if their re-
turn passages have been paid beforehand. They would
have had a much better show if they had tackled the Pil-
barra fields, where over 500 men are knocking out from
£4 to £lO per week tin collecting. The work is light as
mining work gees, and as the field embraces an area as
big as the whole of Victoria, there is still a lot of room for
those who care to try their luck.
■***•*
“ Pea Green ” : The Narlarla (W.A.) fiasco was
not an unexpected thing to those who knew the con-
nections of the concern. The same show was before
an Adelaide mining man nine years ago, but he found out
enough in a few weeks to shut him off it. Delprat was
tried quite recently to take on a proposition as big as a
world, and rich as the combined mints of the realm ; but
he asked a few solid questions, and, getting unsatisfactory
replies, bade it a pleasant “ good day.” It may have been
the same property. The whole thing was nearly becom-
ing as dismal a frost as that much-boomed Oentralian
goldfield, whereof the producing attainments were only
of the fair to middling class. Narlarla had the good luck
to be nipped by public exposure a bit earlier in its career,
however, and won’t carry so much disgrace with it.
* * * *
Waverley (W.A.), recently floated in Melbourne
With a capital of £5OOO in 500 shares of £lO each, was
long known as the Siberia Reward. It is situated at
Waverley, known in the early days as Siberia, and is
about 50 miles north of Coolgardie and 25 miles nor’-west
of Broad Arrow. It is in a district utterly neglected by
the Cohen tribe, and no capital has ever reached the
place. The mines have for years been nursed by broken-
hearted prospectors, and an influx of capital, if judiciously
expended, may give the place a fillip. There are hun-
dreds of mines'in W.A. suitable for Australian flotation,
in companies of 20,000 to 30,000 shares, which Bull Cohen
would not look at, as he wants something big to make a
splash with. Eventually these mines will be opened up,
as similar mines have been opened up successfully at
Bendigo, Gvmpie and many other places. The high costs
in W. A. scared small investors off such propositions, but
as costs are now on a reasonable scale that bogey has
disappeared, and small mines will come to the front.
Barrambi Range (W.A.) directors are an angry
lot of men. Shares ran up to 40s. on co. getting the
option to buy the Golden Hill lease, next door. Board
asked shareholders to authorise the issue of 5000 reserve
shares at that price to complete the deal. There was so
much cheering and enthusiasm at the meeting that
it looked as if the money was in the till, especially
when chairman English offered to take a tenth of the issue.
But the speckers got at the stock, and as prices went
down so did the spirits of the ardent shareholders, until
on the date when the subscriptions closed it was found
that the faithful were few, the unfaithful many. So in
the end the board has to cut down the price to 30s. per
share; and the members resent this come - down
warmly. If their manager’s estimate is right, they have
reason to grumble. He sets down 6500 tons in the co.’s
own lease as worth 3gOZ., 100 tons at 40z., and 5 tons, at
350 z. per ton, the total gross value of gold contents being
£93,300. This does not take into account anything in
the adjoining Golden Hill lease, which the board pro-
posed to buy out of the new issue. If it were not that
Con. Lynch and manager Aldridge were such a careful
pair, figures like these would be sufficient to scare away
anyone except burglars. As it is, there are sceptics
enough about to make the market hesitate. One thing is
certain—if this co. does not take the new lease, the latter
won’t go begging.
* # * *
Victorian Coal Commission report lets in light,
though it does some whitewashing. Indirectly, it tells
that coal costs 11s. at the pit’s mouth in Gippsland.
Therefore, although 2,500,000 tons have been raised, the
divs out of the proceeds are small; Outtrim-Howitt,
£42,391; Coal Creek, £26,250; and Jumbunna,
£23 250—an average all round of lOd. per ton profit.
It is a beggarly result, and proves that, with open com-
petition, the field has no chance with Newcastle. How
the worker has fared since the local union was squelched
is illustrated by the following shift-wage table for corre-
sponding two weeks in 1902 and 1905 ;
Before strike After Strike
(1902). (1905).
Outtrim-Howitt .. 13/9 .. 7/10
Jumbunna .. .. 11/5 .. 7/6
Coal Creek .. .. • • t>/ _
The Commission insists that because the mines have been
able to save the Vic. Railway Department from being
blackmailed by N.S.W. coal sellers, the State should pay
a 6d. bonus per ton for five years on a certain output,
should give not less than 12s. 6d. for firsts and 11s. 6d.
for seconds consumed by Railway Department, and
should restrict railway freights to £d. per ton per mile.
To justify these concessions the Commission reports that
the gross value to the Railway Department through the
presence of the Victorian coal mines has been over a
million sterling. Clearly the State cannot, however, rely
upon maintaining this advantage. A combination of the
two lots of owners (and that could be brought about
easily enough if it were worth while) would leave the
State no better off than if there were no Victorian mines.
The only certain course is for the State to take them over
and work them.
Outtrim Howitt (Vic.) is the leading show of
the Gippsland coal lords, but its coronet has not had
many jewels glittering in it of late years. Competition
with Newcastle has been destructive to dividends, and if
it were not for the freight concession made by the State
Government there would be a worse showing than is
made even now. Co. fails to bring out its balance-sheet
in prescribed form, so the only little bit of inside know-
-edge obtainable about the way things have gone during
the past six months is the credit of £1750 Drought for-
ward from working account. Compared with the
profits, office and management expenses pile up
pretty heavily ; they come to over £6OO. This
item, with £750 written off, absorbs the major
portion of the balance brought forward. There
still appears in the balance-sheet an old friend “reserve
£1000” and the debtor item “ machinery account £1000.”
The real liabilities are overdraft £561 and sundry creditors
£l7Bl, against which appear sundry debtors £2408 and
coal on hand £271. This last item is of the nebulous type,
but sufficient is evident to show that co. is weathering the
gale now that the selling price of coal at Newcastle has
risen.
* « * k
Bendigo’s half-yearly balance-sheet is still on
the boom-side, but as this is based on actual results there
is something solid to crow over. Records :
Surplus
Gold. Divs. Calls. Divs.
June, 1905 .. 86,0570 z. £99,044 £75,862 £23,182
Dec., 1905 ..122,626,, 130,965 99,419 31,546
June, 1906 ..117,320,, 137,377 95,190 42,187
Calls look heavy, and the surpluses do not look large, but
it has to be recollected that a lot of ground is being
broken in new claims which have never yet got beyond
the shaft-sinking stage. South New Moon is deposed from
the position of chief div. payer by New Argus, which
comes out with a total of £25,500; South New Moon,
£2l 400 ; New Moon, £16,800 ; United Ulster, £12,800 ;
New Red, White and Blue, £12,375; and Virginia,
£lO,BOO. Specimen Hill and Catherine Reef did not get
into five figures, but they promise to do better next
half-year.
■* • * *
South Star, Ballarat, having got £5OOO from
the Bent Government to go from 2500 ft. to 3000 ft. with
its shaft, wants a trifle more to pull through the last
100 ft. Is Ballarat so poverty-stricken that it must ask the
State to do more for it? A strike at 3000 ft. in the Star
would galvanise the place ; yet it is a matter of history
that the locals held meetings and talked yards about the
revival that is to come when royalty is abolished,
but still buttoned up their pockets when asked to take a
hand in the South Star deep sinking. This sort of
pat riotism isn’t like that of Bendigo, where call-payers
have delved to 4200 ft. on less gold from the line than has
been got on the Plateau. South Star Co. puts up £ for £
on the sink, but it is so encumbered to the Bank of
Victoria that it will take a fairly rich strike to do more
than liquidate its debts.
* * * *
Pan ton Hills, near Warrandyte (Vic.), is a fi’-
penny show. It lies near an old alluvial flat, and was
pegged out because of the derelict Caledonia boomlet.
Henry Gore, with all the Coppabella honors thick upon
him thought there might be a chance. After its forma-
tion’co. awoke and found that the stone, which had been
grubbed out at the surface, pitched into the next lease ;
so it had to come to terms with the owner. Now,
whisper says, the co. is going for a new reef; so the puzzle
is to find but the reason for the original float. For luck
a Tatt’s. winner won’t be in it with the Panton crowd if
the latter strike a gold mine in their ground.
* * * *
A bitter fight is going on over the Junction
Deep Leads (Vic.), in which the issues are wider than
meet the eye. Tersely, the claim was shepherded for
some years by a co. which was one of the West Australian
Goldfields floats, as was the Victorian Deep Leads. Char-
lotte Plains worked in with these two co.’s in putting up
a power station for the three mines, and Drysdale Brown
was the man from Cork over them. When Bewick
Moreing took the Victorian Deep Leads, Brown con-
tinued at. the Junction Deep Leads and Charlotte
Plains. Lately there has been a new Junction
Deep float in London to raise capital. Somehow
there has come a change of control. Brown seems to
have wanted the Junction Deep Leads to go to work, and
Junction Deep Leads seems to have pledged its share of
the power from the power station to the Victorian Deep
Leads for some time ahead, rendering immediate pumping
impossible. One Paul, of Maldon, then applied for the
forfeiture of the Junction Deep Leads .ground. Brown
and his co.-director Moule in turn presented petitions for
the liquidation of the co. What Bull and his party
on the other side of the world think of these
proceedings Asmodeus might reveal. It can be wagered
that Bull’s forehead is wrinkled with care. Brown and
Moule are lawyers, and Bull must see a stiff bill of costs
ahead no matter how the issue goes. On the point that
the Junction Deep Leads should not hold the ground
unless it mans it effectively there can be no argument.
That must have been seen long ago, when Brown was
director, for the Charlotte Plains has been pumping for
years Therefore, what people want to know is why all
this sudden energy and litigation ? Victorian Deep Leads
is concerned, for if the Junction loses its mine or has to
pump then it can only get a portion of the power.
Prentice and Southern, Rutherglen (Vic.), is
proving a stone from a sling to Mines Minister M‘Leod.
Facts are that successive Governments lent the old com-
panies which owned the ground £lO,OOO. Then Peacock
doubled the amount, just as the poker-player doubles his
opponent’s declaration. The idea was to give a big grant
to a mining field which was in distress through the col-
lapse of the Southern and Prentice and North Prentice
(now the Prentice and Southern), the closing down of
the Great Northern Extended Consols, and the strain
thrown on the Great Southern higher up the lead.
As the first £10,0"0 lent by the State was repayable on
call and the other £lO,OOO is due in 1907, McLeod asked
for a refund of £5OOO before he would transfer the leases
to the proposed Bewick Moreing new co., with its working
capital of £30,000. As a matter of fact, there were a
e-ocd many reasons why M‘Leod should have asked
not only for the return of £5OOO, but of double
that amount. The terms given to 8., M. and Co.
were a six months’ option, during which they were to
pump the mines and prospect the ground and form a
new co. with £30,000 working capital. When getting the
option they insisted on the right, if the option were exer-
cised of grabbing a three-quarters interest in the claim.
There is no reason why the State should not deal rigidly
with men who exact hard terms themselves. Unfor-
tunately M’Leod gave the show away. He was badly
advised, or he would not have raised the repayment issue
until the mine was taken over. Then there would have
been some cash to seize.
* * * *
Black Horse, Egeiton (Vic.), which now com-
prises both the Black Horse and the old Egerton, over
which latter Martin Loughlin and Bailey had their
famous fight with Learmonth about the restitution of the
mine, is coming out in a new garb. Geologist Dunn,
after a visit to the claim, drew the attention of the direc-
tors to the copper-producing possibilities of a dyke
opened up in an east crosscut m the Egerton
ground at 870 ft. Assays since taken went up to 5 per
cent, copper and 13dwt. gold. It is not unusual for
native copper to be found in the older formations covered
by the flows of basalt in Victoria, but no one, hitherto, has
taken such discoveries seriously. Dunn’s report set the
directors thinking. As the formation is 60ft. wide they
are taking E. A. Weinberg’s advice as to whether the dyke
is of the ordinary type or a copper mine. As only one
cut has been made into the formation, and as Weinberg
cannot see any farther into a mine face than any other
expert, they might as well have gone on their own. The
correct course is to unwater to 1400 ft., and ascertain if
the dyke lives down and carries copper. Surely they are
not a poor crowd, for Vickery, sen., and his pal, Wilding,
nav the bulk of the calls. Nor are they wanting in
pluck, vide Vickery’s Bear Hill fight and his later tussle
with the Duke of York corner. There is talk of others
furnishing the funds. This means handing over the
mine The fact that the directors are asking shareholders
to give them the right to sell the mine at their own sweet
will indicates a remarkable family likeness to the way in
which the Prentice and Southern deal was negotiated.
Are the same agencies at work ?
* * * *
The sludge trouble from dredges (especially in
the Loddon river) has been pushed into public notice
very industriously by' Victorian landholders recently, and
Mines Minister M‘Leod has spoken as if he intended to
deal very sharply with dredging companies that do not
take steps to guard against the dumping of tailings or
sludge into creek and river beds. Melbourne newspapers
are now depicting M‘Leod as a firm Minister w-ho has
just learned of wrongdoing, and is setting out swiftly to
repress it. As a matter of fact, M‘Leod has had in his
hand for weeks a scheme drawn up by the Sludge Abate-
ment Board for the Castlemaine district, in which most of
the trouble has occurred. The scheme had the acquiescence
of the Castlemaine Dredging Association, which declares
that only two or three companies were failing to look
after their sludge properly. The complaint against
M'Leod has been that he has not had the backbone to act
on the scheme, in spite of the support given him by
almost the whole of the Association. In fact, instead of
being the swift Minister who sets out on the instant to
suppress wrongdoing, the Association regards him as the
slow Minister who has to be dragged to the spot by the
ear and does very little when he arrives.
* * * *
Another factor in reducing the mining costs,
especially in large mines, is the general use of “ Little
Wonder” Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill mines use them extensively. The
managers favor these drills for their great strength and
simplicity having only one working part; also
economy in air consumption as they require only about
25ft. free air per minute. Miners prefer them, as work is
made much easier ; for tributors, “Wonder” drills are
the means of bringing in larger returns. Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, have five
descriptive catalogues for those interested, and attention
is drawn to an exceedingly simple and ingenious patent
water attachment for allaying dust.*
* * * *
Cobak. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoliile
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, arid
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormoUs
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “ Hornsby ” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.* ‘ .
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part —the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man tvith this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over tin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2Jin. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw-
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine mav be seen working.* [c],
m * * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * •
Joint Stock Companies’ Journal (London),
19th July, 1905, wrote re the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited “In the meantime we need say
no more than this—that the Colonial Mutual has proved
itself to be a strong and progressive office, which, under
the guidance of men of enlightenment and enterprise, has
done excellent work and wdll do better.”*
* * * *
The first sale of Midland Railway Co.’s land
near Moora Station (W.A.) showed the keenness of the'
demand for decent agricultural soil in that State. Out of
87 agricultural lots 59 were sold at up to £4 6s. an acre.
Altogether the sale realised £29,500.*
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, Uhe Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.* * «• * V <
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


Hotel
Australia
KATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen~
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest
every Thursday.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
OOSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea
Instrumental and Vocal Concert
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
Night
with
every
COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night. • y
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no paius
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st. Sydne}-.
ARTISTS, Photographers, &c., are
invited to submit DESIGNS OR
IDEAS SUITABLE FOR REPRODUC-
TION AS POST CARDS to
HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
David vStorer iSons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
<a BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
(Eh STOREKEEPERS.
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
“ SHEEP-MARKER.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resclrs Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“ Quan ” : Mention by “Paul Cupid”
(B. 7/6/’O6) that totally different snakes are called
in lasmania and Australia by the same name,
reminds me that an alleged authority on Aus-
tralian reptiles states that there are three varieties
of death-adder in this continent, the purplish,
the short, and the spine-tailed. His alleged pur-
plish death-adder is our black snake, and his short
death-adder our tiger snake, the spine-tailed, of
course, being the reptile universally known as the
death-adder. The diamond snake, which gave
Paul’s Tasmanian friend such a close call, is known
as the copper-headed snake in Victoria, and is
called the superb snake in N.S. W. It’s scientific
name is Denisonia supcrba.
A PUBLIC MAN.
THE CANDIDATE: “ Gentlemen , you know me. I've been before the public for years.”
FREE AND INDEPENDKENT: “My oath! You've wore all the paint off it!”
Maori outlaws were fairly common once,
but latterly the industry hasn’t thriven. One
bold brown hero who escaped arrest for some-
thing very ordinary years ago, has evaded the
blue coats ever since, and lives a lonesome life in
the fastnesses of Poverty Bay. He makes
periodical raids on the settlers’ sheep and cattle,
and levies on his fellow-browns with a gun, for
clothes, tobacco, and sundries. The gentleman’s
hair gets wild and woolly at times, after the
fashion of the Patriarchs of old, and, as he is fas-
tidious concerning his personal appearance, he
drops into a camp every few months, and orders
a scared fellow-countryman to trim his locks. He
keeps his gun between his knees during shearing.
When it became known that he had happened
along as usual, t’other day, a posse of police and
settlers started out on a bush-scouring expedi-
tion, and it was still out when this was written
RACES ON HUNGRY FLAT.
A. hot finish. Beaten on the post.
“ Jonathan” : Whilst at Bunbury (W.A.)
I saw a military church parade. The josser who
led the procession had the calm, inscrutable ex-
pression that all great generals wear except when
they are asleep or drunk. The rank and file tried
to emulate the martial bearing of the British
Tommy, but only succeeded in bringing their
. tummies into undue prominence. Those that
served in Chow Africa wore feathers in their
hats (by permission), as a tribute to their fowl-
shaking proclivities. As a result, not a rooster
within miles of Bunbury has a decent tail.
* * * *
To cure a cold in one day take Laxative
Bromo Quinine Tablets. All chemists refund the
money if it fails to cure. E. W. Grove’s signa-
ture is on each box. Is. lid.*
* * ~ * *
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
“Elmore”: What’s the matter with a
close season for bees? We protect everything
else that is useful, aud why not the wild bee.
Bee farmers in the country wouldn’t like it, of
course, as every wild colony killed out means
more feed for their own stock. Still I suggest
protection for wild bees from (say) January to
September. If they are robbed after January
they have little chance of laying in a winter’s
supply of food, most of the blossoms being gone.
Yet you can see in any district hives being plun-
dered in March and April, and the industrious
insects left to perish miserably of starvation.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : Hogan’s old grey mare
shoved her head in at the kitchen window one
twilight. “Shure, is it a bit av sarlt yez
afther, ould woman ? Shure, yer losin’ ye’re
winthercoat, ould gurrl !” Hogan rubbed
off patches of hair with his fingers. “Shure
ye’re gittin’ fat, there’ll be no ketchin’ ye
soon, whin the spring’s here.” Then Hogan
called to his wife Bridget: “ I’m goin’ down
the sthrate ; did yez warnt annythin’ frum
the sthore ? ” After getting his supplies, he
called in at the pub. and wetted “ his lung,”
as he called it, and started home. “ Shure,
that grog felt moighty sthrong,” said he.
About half-way home lie spied a man walk-
ing directly in front, all in white. “Who'll
be that bloke now?” thought Pat. On he
went, and the man in white dodged on ahead.
Hogan put on a spurt but couldn’t get
any nearer, till at last he saw the man
enter his own gate and go inside. Hogan
hung his hat up, and said, “ Who the
divil came in ahid av me, Biddy?” “Not
a sowl,” said she. “Phwat?” said Pat.
“ Don't tell me anny lois, wuman.” “ Shure,
Pat, ye're dbrainin'.” Out went Hogan
again into the street, and there was the
“ Flying Dutchman ” once more before him.
After him cut Hogan with all speed, but
at last he was winded and started back,
when to his horror the man in white was
again ahead. Once more he saw him go
into his house. “ Howly murtherin Moses,
Biddy, is it the horrers I got?” yelled
Hogan, as he rushed in, wild-eyed and
frenzied. And then he got near the lamp,
and lo ! one of the old mare’s grey hairs
hung from his hat brim immediately be-
fore his nose. “Shure, that’s the divil av
a mare, entoirely, to play a thrick on me
loike that whin I guv her sarlt in me hand
too.”
“ Walfre ” : What extraordinarily ap-
propriate names some country shopkeepers
hit on for their businesses ! I know in a Western
town a “ Live and let live ” butchery.
“Dave H. Richards”: Be the discussion
anent the irrigation value of bore water (B. 3/5/’O6)
and (B. 21/6706), “F. Y.T.” is right to a certain
extent, and “ Kill para ” is also right in a degree.
“F.Y.T.’s” assertion that in Queensland bore
water will not destroy Mitchell grass applies omy
to the first or second or, possibly, the third year.
After that, if “F.Y.T.” remains, he will notice
the grass begin to die off, on account of the ground
becoming mineralised and hard. As for “Kul-
para’s ” assertion that he failed entirely to grow
•cabbages and other vegetable affairs, the inference
is that he doesn’t understand vegetable growing,
■or else had bad seeds, or he used ground over
which the water had been running for a few years.
Round Walgett district, where I live, and which
is in the very heart of the artesian bore country,
any amount of wheat and other cereals, and plenty
•of vegetables and fruit are successfully grown with
bore water. In the recent severe drought, when
the bores were first tested to the full, exceptionally
good crops were the result, and the settlers, seeing
this, utilised the water for fruit growing and
vegetable-raising. But the ground had to be
•changed for crop every year, and for vegetables
•every two or three years. Many settlers tried to
neutralise the action of the mineralised water in
•their vegetable gardens by plentiful tilling and
manuring, and this extended the life of the ground
'(if well carried out) for a year —sometimes for
•two, but that was all.
» » * *
“W.L.D.”: “ Mallarapoona’s ” mystifica-
tion (B. 21/6/’O6) as to why people are said to go
out-back when going m-land, and to go in when
pushing out from the interior to the coast, seems
to result from his looking at the subject inside
out. Settlement began on the coast, not at
•central Mt. Stuart, and it was out of that settle-
ment that the early pioneers went m-land, and to
which, to this day, their descendants come in
from out-back. Really, the expressions are a
survival of the stronger of two contrasted ideas.
•Going out of the settled into the unsettled dis-
tricts and vice versa became so much the order of
the day that the economic genius of our spoken
speech soon crystalised the out in the one sense,
and the in in the other, into commonplace expres-
sions with a generally recognised meaning.
To-day “outback” is in itself a terse epic of one
phase of life in Australia, the true fierceness of
which is known only to those who have blistered
under our central suns.
• * * *
“Hexham”: Can’t elucidate “Mallara-
poona’s ” mystery of Australian vernacular (B.
21/G/'O6), but can inform him that the use of
“ outside ” and “ inside ” to mean away from and
near the coast is not peculiar to this part of the
world. In Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, Brazil,
and all round there, the same words are employed
(in Spanish, Portugese, Italian, French, English,
etc.) to signify the same thing. In the first-named
you are going “ outside ” until nearly within sight
of the Cordilleras, and when across the rise you
are going “ inside ’’ again if you keep staight on.
By the way, the British language is badly in want
of a specific word to denote rural districts as
distinguished from urban. Wherever the English
go they have to borrow from the local language
to supply this deficiency ; for example, in Spanish
America they use “camp” (campo), and in S. Africa
“veldt,” though the latter doesn’t quite fill the
bill.
* * *• *
“ Edyson ” : Here is the tale almost as it
was told to me by the expert axeman: —Tom
Denny, who lived at Benbolt, was a gluttonous
reader of cheap literature of the Deadwood type.
He got it in bales from the second-hand shops in
Melbourne, and when he was off work you could
always find him crouched in his kitchen corner
with his knot of a nose poked into a tattered copy
of “ The Crimson Scar ” or “ The Soap-Boiler’s
Sin.” You could be sure, too, of finding Billy
Lee hanging round. Billy Lee was a bachelor
neighbor, and his partiality for Mrs. Tom Denny
was flagrant to everybody but Tom. Possibly Tom
did notice what was going on ; he could hardly
miss it, seeing that Billy dangled about Mrs.
Denny even in the kitchen, and would chance a
kiss or two while Tom was immersed in the “ Red
Wretch of Texas,” but the husband was too
absorbed to interfere. One afternoon Carlton
met Tom going home from day-shift, reading as
he stumbled down the track. “Hello, Denny,
old man,’ said Carlton, “I was awfully sorry to
hear that about your missus.” Denny put a grimy
forefinger carefully on the line at which he left off
reading, and looked at Carlton. “What about
my missus ?” he asked, “ What, ain’t they told
you ? Billy Lee ran away with her this mornin’.”
Tom Denny looked almost angry. “ One o’ these
days that feller’ll be goin’ just a step too far,” he
said ominously, and then he went on reading.
* * * *
According to stock-expert Kendall,
M. Dr. Danysz’s disease is due to a
pathological germ known as pasteurella, which
belongs to a family of micro-organisms causing a
variety of diseases. “We have the disease already
in Victoria. Only the day previous a man
brought me the carcase of a sheep suffering from
the disease one of 13 found dead m one night at
Melton.”
*■* * «
“ J. 8.” : A man of my acquaintance claims
the honor of having been drunk in every town in
N. bar Menangle, and he says there are no
hotels at Menangle.
BADDAGINITIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was me an’ Mick Moloney, Billy Flynn an’ Johno
Dunne,
In the Great Australian Boxin’ Combination ;
We done the country townships, an’ we scored a heap o’
fun,
An’ raked in whips o’ coin an’ reputation.
Ask any of ’em if he’ll tell yer all about the trip ;
An’, though he’ll have a dinkum tale ter spin, he
Won’t tell the awful inserdent what busted up the show—
An’ take good care ter shut yer head if you sh’d chance
ter know—
For all are pretty sore about the business still, an’ so
It’s unhealthy ter refer ter Baddaginnie ;
They’ll stoush yer if yer mention Baddaginnie.
A splendid push’d tumble up in every place we went,
An’ our takin’s they was always big an’ steady ;
The country yobs ’d gather, catching flies around the
tent,
Tdl Johno Dunne an’ Mick was stripped an’ready.
We’d stand ’em on a box, an’ Patsy Flynn’d show ’em off,
An’ when they’d holler loudly ter begin, he
W d say “ This gent has never bin defeated, an’ I’ll ask
If any willin’ local lad w’d undertake the task ? ”
Then Mieko ’d go around ’em like a cooper round a
cask—
Until we struck the town of Baddaginnie ;
We run against a snag at Baddaginnie.
They cheered a clumsy sleepy-looking yokel as they
brought,
Although they said a dozen more c’d beat him.
That aint no lie,” I said ter Mick, “I reckon as they 7
ought.
A minute’d belong enough ter eat him.”
I banged the gong an’ then began the gruesome spec-
tercle
That finished up the show in ignominy ;
He led a left on Micko’s nose, he swung his right and
when
It landed, he came forward with a uppercut an’ then
He waited while a bloke with sandy whiskers counted ten
In a way that seemed too good for Baddaginnie ;
Too business-like by 7 far for Baddaginnie.
“ Great Scott,” says Patsy Dunn, “ but ain’t it crook ter
have this lout
Come springin’ flukes without consideration ;
We must kid his hit was foul, an’ then commence to deal
it out
Ter save the Great Australian Combination.”
We passed the wink ter Johno, an’he rushed the local
lad.
But he bumped against another yokel skinny,
Who side-stepped and who smothered till he countered
Johno’s jore
With a sudden bunch of blows that left him squirmin’ on
the floor -
He’d all the hits that Science knows, an’ half a hundred
more,
An’ he’d learnt ’em chasin’ cows at Baddaginnie ;
He had led a wasted life at Baddaginnie.
T ien Patsy wept in horror for he’d got no show ter bolt,
So he made a dash ter grab an empty 7 bottle ;
But a red-haired boy came forward with a nasty half-arm
jolt
That landed Patsy fair upon the throttle,
tried ter duck behind him, but the ginger bloke was fly
An’ as soon as he had settled Patsy Flynn, he
Turned round on me, and then, before I knew the reason
why 7,
There were fifty thousand rainbows runnin’ cycle races by
An’ Aurora Borealises was scrappin’ in the sky
That hangs above the town o’ Baddaginnie ;
Volcanoes filled the streets o’ Baddaginnie.
We was sore an’ sad an’ worried as we folded up the tent,
An’ made a break for town in consternation.
“ I s’pose yous fellers ain’t had time ter find out what it
meant ? ”
Says the porter chap who met us at the station.
“ You’ve heard o’ Murphy, as was champion 20 years ago,
He’s got a farm up here an’ with a grin, he
Says “ All his time’s spent teachin’ ’em, an’ so the smallest
brats
Can fight before they learn ter walk or cut their teeth.”
An’ that’s
The reason why you’d better, if you chance to word the
Rats,
Be careful not to mention Baddaginnie ;
Once they killed a bloke for sayin’ “ Baddaginnie.”
VIC.
A. B.


sdf
By Appointment to
H.M. The King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
sd
A pinch ot Salt gives flavour, but a pinch of CEREBOS Salt gives Strength
and Health as well, because it contains the bran phosphates which make
the difference between White Bread and Whole Meal Bread.
Agents—Harrison AttwoodSydney.
£lO 10s.
Gent's Watch -
Heavy 14ct. Gold Hunting:
J- pi ate Lever.
15 Jewels. Expansion Balance.
15 Years’ Guarantee.
Profoundly accurate. Barely strong:.
The “ Kx. & B.” Levers are uneclipsed.
Special Presentation discount.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER ST.
Nr
S=3
m
%
Gent’s 14 ct.
Gold Hunting
Lever, fully
jewelled—
SlO 108.
“Agricola”: Be “The Prooshan” and
his crow-slaving yarn. I have, on scores of occa-
sions, shot old Bottly-neck by walking towards
him backward or obliquely until I got a tree
between myself and him. Then I proceeded in a
straightforward way, under cover of the tree, and
put out the light of his wickedness with my gun.
But some old crows are too cunning even for that
trick. The decreasing egg rate has been the most
serious problem here for the past month,, and
yesterday morning a crow patriarch was respon-
sible. He wasn’t taking any backwardness or
obliqueness, so I put on “me oP woman’s” skirt,
blouse and yard hat, and carried the rifle hidden
in an aged “brolly.” The venerable ruffian’s
confidence in woman got a rough jar at fifteen
yards’ range. I will collect a scrum for his scalp
next scalp day, and the prospective chicken birth-
rate has gone up in our yard.
* * * *
“ Hassan ” : Has anyone ever noticed the
essential difference in the modesty of the man out
back, and the man who lives near the sea?
Camped in the same room with a hayseed in a
little pub. just within the 100-mile limit, and he
apologised humbly for -undressing to go to bed.
Went swimming with another, and he waited
until I had got into the water before he finished
his unwrapping. Then he came in with a rush as
if a ladies’ school were after him. The pirate
by the sea walks up and down the beaches clad in
his honorable reputation and little else. His only
dread is the plantigrade person in blue. The dif-
ference is, I take it, only a matter of bathing
more or less frequently. The sea-coast dweller
bathes more, the out-backer less frequently. I
knew some farm boys who bathed three times one
summer, and reckoned that Kieran was a mere
amateur compared to them. They went on the
land all the winter, and a good deal of the land
went on them, but it stayed there undisturbed
until Christmas time. Is it any wonder that such
men are modest ? I would be modest myself if 1
only bathed once a year.
* * * *
“ Janor ” : Be bag-swag. When the
nomad is utterly stiff and swagless, he obtains
three or four discarded cornsacks and sews them
together. That is a “ Wagga rug,” and, when it
is rolled up, behold the bag-swag. It is carried
more for the sake of appearance than for use, for
the bushman hates to waltz over the saltbush with-
out some sort of Matilda. To do so suggests utter
penury. Met a swaggie once on the Coota’ road,
and, while parting the usual “ pipeful,” remarked
on the neatness and symmetry of his swag.
“Well, yersee,” he explained, “it's a hoildrum
rolled up in er bit er calicer ; a bloke don’t look
respectable travellin’ without a bluey.” That
idea prevailed among the old time bushmen.
Hence their often-heard boast, when they had a
few beers in, “ I’ve never blewed me bundle, any-
how ! ” A man could do in his cheque and then
jump his horse over the bar, and be a “real good
bloke,” but he who, at the tail of a spree, sold his
swag for ale, was a waster, a fool, and several
other things. Hence the disgrace attached to the
bag-swag, and the use of the word as a reproach.
But in the old sense the word is growing obso-
lete—like the bushman.
ALL THE SATISFACTION SHE GOT.
NRRVOUS LADY : “ Chauffeur! Chauffeur! Do be more careful. You just missed upsetting
us all them.”
CHAUFFEUR : “I’m sorry, mum.”
The most aggressive creature in Australian
animal life is the magpie. When Mrs. Magpie
is hatching, the old man instals himself in a tree
near by, and gives the show away by attacking
every person who comes within 200 yards of the
eggs. Swooping down, he “snaps” close to your
ear, and then alights on another tree, from which
he regards you with rage burning in his eye. He
follows you thus for a quarter of a mile, cursing
all the time. In the end Mr. Magpie gets shot,
or Mrs. Magpie gets her nest robbed. Arrogance
doesn’t alway pay.
A CRUSHER.
NITTS M'GINNIS : “ You ’it me agen! Go on,
just ’it me agen! Y’ ain’t game! You, ’it
me agen an’ I’ll pretty quick show yer!”
MISS ANGELINA : “ Yous gentlemen seems to
forget they's ladies presint.”
“ Hassan ” : I remember in my early
youth a Frenchman who, in gallantly retreating
before the Russians, fell over a dead horse and
broke his leg. He used to tell us that it was
while leading his men on to the attack on the
Malakoff that his loss came upon him, and that it
came per medium of an out-size in bomb-shells.
Also that, whenever the anniversary of his acci-
dent came round, he would feel twinges in his
wooden toe. Recently I met a humbler hero here
in Australia. He had parted with his lower limb
to the persuasion of a circular saw, and I asked
him whether he, too, did not suffer upon the
anniversary of the division. “No,” he said, “I
like my wooden leg ’s well ’s me meat one.” I
suggested that it was, at least, safe from the
ravages of disease. “ Ther’s one trouble,” replied
he, “the white ants do be tarebul bad now ’n’ agin
And the borers. Take my tip, young feller, stick
to your legs.” Since then I have done so, never
leaving them one moment out of my reach.
“ Paul Cupid ” : I once wit-
nessed the sudden apostasy to white-
labor principles of a “man with a
stake in the country,” who, up till
then, had had a deep regard for the
yellow employee. Haymaking was
in progress, and as white workers
wanted a fair day’s wage for the
work, and as old Hayseed had a
horror of paying a fair wage, he put
on a gang of 18 Chows. One day,
he was in the shade, watching his
yellows at work. Two of them were
on top of a load ; four
were pitching to
these two, and 12
more were scratch-
ing round,like hens,
making haycocks.
A horse attached to
a hayrake stood
chewing away at a
swath. A Chow
started a snake from
under some hay.
He gave a heathen-
ish shout, and every
Mongol on the
ground started after
the reptile, which
made straight for
the horse. The
horse saw 18 Asia-
tics rushing at him
with demoniac yells
and forks, and he
bolted. A Chow
made a clutch at
his ear to stop him,
and pulled the
winkers off. Then
he bolted more than
ever, and collided
with the horses in
the dray, and these
fled in great terror
through the crop,
spilling the hay and
the two astonished
heathens as they went.
After them went the
Chows, some following,
some cutting across, falling
down, rising again, and
spitting out dirt and hay, and all yelling like
fiends. The horses flew through the crop as if
Joss himself were after them, and left sec-
tions of the dray and rake every time they
struck the fence. Old Hayseed, trying to run 18
different ways at once, screamed and shouted at
the Celestials to stop, but they heeded him not.
Then one of the horses broke its neck over the
fence. Hayseed rushed at the gibbering Mongols,
and smote the two nearest heavily on the skull.
With a whoop they all came at him. Hayseed
made for the house, and never exerted himself so
much before. After the run of his life he escaped
annihilation by about six inches. Then, through
the window, he threatened the Chows with the
law, but they stood between him and the law with
pitchforks till he paid them up to that evening.
After that they called him a foreign devil and left.
“F.C.”: Dr. Danysz’ proposed experi-
ments on bunny are not the first of the sort under-
taken in Australia, and the results of the previous
attempts seem to show that the pest will ulti-
mately have the better of this latest argument.
In ’BB a similar system of inoculation, under the
auspices of the Pasteur Institute, was undertaken
at Rodd Island, in the Beautiful Harbor; but,
though the £25,000 reward offered for a successful
bunny exterminator seemed a fair inducement, it
came to naught. About a year ago Dr. Ham,
Queensland’s Health Commissioner, obtained cul-
tures of rat virus from Paris, but it was found that
the rats presently became immune. Also, years
ago, Mr. Pound, a Queensland bacteriologist, ex-
perimented-on bunny with the virus of chicken-
pox, but once more the poison proved to lose its
effect in time.
* ♦ * *
“ Em ” writes from Katanning (W.A.) :
Re night well told of by “ Wurrym” (B. 17/5/’O6). This
phenomenon has its abode on the top of a large granite
rock, and is a small hole about Ift. deep by 3ft. The
most remarkable part about it is that, at the fag end of
the summer, very little water oozes through the crevice
during the night. But directly the weather cools off,
though no rain may have fallen, the supply increases
considerably. In the small hours of the morning it is
most prolific. No one seems to know the why and
wherefore of it. A settler there keeps himself and four
horses going on it by baling the water out and tanking
it (human tank not'meant in this instance). The hole
only about quarter fills in the summer, but in the winter
it overflows. Reminds one of the eternal drunk. Starts
in the evening, full in the small hours, and flat out next
day. Also, on occasions it may see snakes and other
creepy things—lizards certainly, as the rock holds
millions. There are other night wells in this State.
THE HOOFS OF THE HORSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am bound in the chains of desk and pen ;
The wide earth laughing is no more mine ;
Yet, sometimes (yes 1 ten hours out of the ten,
If you say so) I sigh for the world of men,
For the world of women and wine ?
I have buried them all in a grave of tears—
The comrade, the cup, and the clinging kiss ;
But the horses are whinnying out of the years,
And I turn away and I cover my ears,
Yet —I needs must listen to this !
Pleasures were mine, but I chose my part,
I have bartered all laughter and love for gold,
So why does the flame of the old fire start
When the ghost-hoofs beat on my beating heart
Like the hoofs on our plains of old ?
Night comes. At my window, caged bird at his bars,
I bow to my dreams, as earth bows to the night;
By yon shoulder of Venus, yon sword-arm of Mars 1
’Tis LoyafHeart whinnying under the stars
And tossing the bit with delight!
U.S.A.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. mil be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Chip: Which picture did Ruslcin allude to—
there were three? And what was the “adverse criti-
cism,” except in so far as it related to the advertising
methods adopted by the showman in charge Nelson :
Haven’t the faintest recollection that The Bulletin ever
claimed that it christened R. S. Smythe the “ Much
Travelled.” Always had a vague idea that he assumed
the name himself.. ..T. A. Niccoles : We always want an
address from new contributors as some slight guarantee
the stuff is original... .Odel: Too stilted and rhetorical..,
A.W.: Awkwardly recounted... .Athert: Enough to
make the dead statesman turn in his grave. The first
few lines: —
Oh, people of Maoriland, bow your heads, mourn for your
loss ;
For a leader of talent, sterling worth, and man of force,
Who wove for you a silken web, framed your grand
model laws;
Left skilful imprints round us spread, where once were
ruthless flaws.
.... Felice : Rather dull verses on a well-worn theme....
E.O. : Letter received, but no sign of any poem
enclosed Mugwump : That joke beginning,
“Now children, I have two and a cow has
four,” arrives twice a week on an average......
Sydna B.: “ Pronounced charming verses by the world s
greatest singer.” Well, that only shows what a very bad
judge the W.G.S. was ! Peripatetic: Weak words and
faulty form L.G.J.: Too diffuse. Have made a
12-line par of it.... Grace L. : Hardfact.no doubt, but
not attractively enough presented.. ..Valentine : Very
well written, but artificial and unimpressive...-J.A.A. :
Interest too limited Medi-Fate: Follows too well-
beaten a track P. F. B.: Cow-poem doesn’t appeal to us
....A.S. (Q.): Required stronger and more dramatio
treatment S.B. : Nothing in it W.J.D.: Facile,
but far-fetched and futile... .Wattle Tree: None abso.
lutely bad, but all lacking in force and distinction....
Anonymous : Discharged with a caution, accordingly....
Roamer : Has no special merit.... Bathos: “Sympathy”
is very faulty Ossian : Doesn’t produce a good im-
pression... .Index : “Ronnldson” is very well written,
but hasn’t “ story” enough in it Alexis : Pretty, but
hardly sand enough.... Enniscorthy: Too wordy....
A. Day : “ Grandmamma ” is a great idea not well enough
treated.... C.C. : None of them any good A.J.F.: Too
flimsy.. ..W.H. : You have ideas, but you lack 5ki11....
Ulula: We shouldn’t like to say that you are “ merely
wasting your time.” Item sent is pretty, but quite un-
distinguished Sara R.C.: Doesn’t cry out to be
printed... .Kardella : Promising. You have good de-
scriptive power, but are inclined to be straggly,...
Beatrix H. : The germ of a good sketch E. J. de L. :
Has a good close, but there’s too much lead up....
Waiwera: Don’t see any use in digging up little facts
now to Seddon’s prejudice. He’s dead, and history will
decide as to his character irrespective of the issue
whether he once kept a pub Barndoor: Reason why
“Christian Science” people are generally well-to-do is
that “Christian Science” is the great specific for
imaginary illnesses, and it’s mostly the lazy rich who
suffer from imaginary illnesses C.H.: What nonsense !
The State Governments have nothing to do with
“ Knighthoods ” now ; only the Australian Government
can influence those doubtful honors. Joseph Carruthers
had as little to do with Justice Owen’s bauble as Dill
Macky or the Cardinal... .W.G.8.: Opens well and then
falls off badly Ada W. : Quite unsuitable. You must
send stamps if you wish rejected MS. to be returned.. <,.
J.B. (Cairns): Good; they show the effects of right
example J.R. : The canteen, as managed in Australia,
at any rate, is of distinct benefit to the military forces ;
and the profits go back to the men in some shape or
other Patience : Has some merit, but that track has
been trodden by many feet G.F.O. : You are loose in
your facts. Peacock didn’t “ assume office” first in 1900.
He was a subordinate Minister in 1894-1899, and again in
1900-1901. He became Premier in 1901. The Vic. Fac-
tories Act didn’t start in 1900 under Peacock, but in 1896
under Turner, Isaacs, Peacock and Co., and its Wages
Boards were then about the most Democratic legislation
going. The Vic. Factories Act of ’96 was not wholly
forced on by the Labor party. Also, the Labor party could
hardly be said to appear in Vic. Parliament in 1891 as you
allege ; there was no election that year, so no new party
appeared then. Further, if Higgins is so bad a character
that Labor must put up Harry Foran against him he
shouldn’t have been included in a Labor Ministry
D. M. Aitken : Interest in your article on the export
mutton trade was blighted by the deficient postage.
What’s the good of putting 3d. on an inter-State letter ?
It’s either 2d. or 4d. or some even number of “d."....
S. E. Pearson : Nigger-cockatoo idea old. Considering
other Rosamund : Pretty good attempt, but that is
all Tongatera : Nothing very brilliant in the collec
tion Machaon : That matter was reported by cable
weeks ago A. Waxton (Narronear): The Queen’s
Bridge, which replaced the old Falls’ Bridge, is the first
that spans the Yarra as you come up the river from the
sea Phil R. : Too much preliminary and sundry errors
of detail J.K.S.: Absurdly trifling Starlight: Peri-
lously akin to balderdash Violet M. : Very promising
in the circumstances Ibex : Too vague and nebulous.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
B. Smith : You certainly don’t know what a septic tank
looks like. Domain joke held for consideration
A.W.O. : Picture of dreadful girl riding on a nightmare
declined H.G. : “Industrious John” too unwhole-
some H.J. : Picture of cleric swearing at dog declined.
There is an erroneous idea that there is something
humorous about a cleric saying “ damn.”
The winter winds are blowing-,
Think of the ills they bring,
And guard with care your household
Until the welcome spring.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Will aid you till the end,
And, as a sentry, safe and sure,
Your dear ones will defend.*
“ Lil ” : Some of the Women’s Ass. dames
are taking themselves mighty seriously. I had
occasion to call on one of a churcliified turn
lately, and found that she had added choice
political maxims to the Bible texts that adorn her
walls. “To obey is better than to sacrifice, and
to hearken than the fat of rams,” was followed by
a solemn “ Beware of sacrificing to the Moloch of
Socialism ! ” An illuminated assertion that
“There were giants in those days” preceded the
plaintive query—“ And have we not even now the
Goliath of Socialism to combat! ” And a much-
gilt line from a hymn—“ls there room for Mary
there ? ” —served to point the double fiction that
“ There will be no room for the reputable woman
when Socialism works devastation on the mar-
riage-tie.” That weary old marriage-tie joke
again !


wf/oTrlled llf« Soil did rj6f~uri<ier s lsvd
°f' P^i'li^ent - b« eteyvpfcd
fr OYr) K oV, - (n c .Coiij
" Here, M'Htfhs njurd cc! ’
Sf’osin it"i.S'— yoa don"fc^ecK
*»« to mcefos
v d ° y f"
£l7A*>W of Atfriculivrz G»ferine*-
tf&fc °h nod on I .
’T'fe j
TVo #
'TOVfenl Y
\fr%TJ'<jro Itjs.
W Cm*non—
~*?e )..
Sr^itpsye^r.
Jr
U^l"
tl
y * / / I
>\ brother of-
: judK ib5 “Has
r We' - *
lf>
**] •
IT (9i,i *7 Ptyer)
Ktyclf
oi
H V| <7p but ‘Ttjfi I*tT "fo j
receivedl
2^'trocar bM.'H'ow, |
P 71 bills &rA S 0 **)"?
ctailv
deceives Itfpe. J
a^s
v "Co*iscie*>ce
!’
jtypre wete"*-
i mlotfSh
Question P^pore
Christ"as Hj« r *
y/ese. To - •
'TUW ' oy i*-
ZxJ Y very l»nporl^w't'
°f ov y
J Iter-time *7- J/,
w ! j/mmJm
C W«S'- Sej, i s 1/e 'l7l/s+' lie
or he Y/ouldn'T 5O njuch 'io give Wayp
”<5? trr«cV
HS’ do
iHtfe |
doi/e:
\ y
4M rafe: .. .
*t Srist^cJ
iC fcurey^Vt^ -
. Would Jy'future*
in Which Could see ■fui-flj^i''
'AJo't" further now!
C we Joined
V. ih S^V Ar ?/
n'v» T , — Vom Srjould 'neai»’ d /o«r
7 <? wods
ffoW oM we were ge'tt'njp
■*«*!/’
FROM VICTORIA AND ELSEWHERE.


TARLMEMT *QUSE KO O- THE&£STC<-U£ IN AUSTRALIA- O A'l-L- /v/TZ~~
DCpAT* WCf 7Z-QVM.
7g y -drops trjVr^V
Y 'another -f'lacE’ " /
a/£Ta/- (
L ZIP"** BO V£TJ J
A MODEL STATE PARLIAMENT-ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN.
(Suggested by recent appeal that N.S.W. Parliament “should not sink below the level of a pot-house.”)


\
The Worlds;
Dentifrice
The “Nasty flat taste
in the mouth” on awakening in
the morning is due to an excessive
development of bacteria in the
mouth during sleep. The infallible
antidote is rinsing the mouth
with Odol before retiring to rest.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for
several months (the half-size, bottle i,b).
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Matters were nicely balanced for Mr.
Crick, Wednesday of last week. In the after-
noon, at Sydney Water Police Court, they
ordered him not to leave. In the evening, at
Parliament House, they not only ordered him to
leave, but sent an official to see that he did so.
Died, at Bournemouth, England, Mr. J.
Grafton Ross, formerly manager of the Colonial
Sugar Company. He was in that capacity when
the business was very small beetroots indeed, and
had its offices in the old store of Levick and Piper,
George-street, Sydney, now occupied by Turner
and Henderson’s printing office.
Architect Robert Holwell, who died
recently at Melbourne, was a great-great-grandson
of Zachary Howell, Deputy-Governor of Calcutta
in 1756. Zachary was one of the 23 who survived
out of the 146 prisoners whom Bruce Smith’s
friend, Nabob Surajah Dowlah, packed into the
“Black Hole” ; and his account of the horror is
considered the most graphic extant.
The late W. R. Campbell, M.L.C., of
Sydney, never aspired to political fame. But
Australia owes his memory one debt of gratitude.
In the tight for the Federal Bill, Campbell,
almost alone in the Upper House, stood up for
the cause of union, and chairmanned Barton’s
first big meeting in Sydney during that bitter
campaign.
Colechin, M.P., in Vic. Assembly the
other night:—
I know an hon. member who used to wander about the
Western district with nothing but his gills on, and with a
good fat lubra following him.
Now. who was that man ?
VICTORIAN LABOR LEADER, GEORGE
PRENDERGAST.
Dr. Clirissie Goode, a South Australian
damsel, has been appointed senior house surgeon
at the West Ham (London) Infirmary, the first
woman to hold the post. Adelaide University
possesses an exceptionally good medical school,
and its graduates have scored a number of suc-
cesses of this kind in the Cold Land.
At the unveiling of the Gillies Memorial
at Vic. Parliament House, Righteous Wrixon,
president of the House of 35 Affluent Landlords,
remarked that he and the late Duncan had been
on such close terms of friendship that he had
known “the innermost recesses of liis heart.”
Yet Wrixon was just as astonished as everybody
else when Duncan’s widow came along at his
death to prove that he had been a married man.
Melbourne Licensing Court lately trans-
ferred the license of the “Sir John Franklin,” in
Victoria Parade, Collingwood, from a persistent
woman, Mrs. Elizabeth Davidson, who had held
it continuously since she built the hotel in 1854.
Fancy fifty-two years pulling the same old beer-
handle, and showing two generations of drunks
out of the same swing doors, and jerking three-
penn’orth into the same old jug night after night.
Justin Fox Greenlaw Foxton, who was 21
years in Queensland Assembly without leaving
any noticeable footmark on things, and was
then thrown out by his tired constituents
of Carnarvon, is to be the anti-Sosh candidate at
North Brisbane. The old party hacks, the som-
nolent, the politically-dead and the partially-
dead, the people who were never really alive, will
have a great outing on the anti-Sosh ticket this
year.
A well-known Scotchman, who died a
few years ago worth much money, and part
of whose “siller” has gone to build and
endow a hospital up N.S.W. North
Coast way, was noted ior his close-
fistedness. He and his brother
(they were both bachelors)
lived, worked, and quar-
relled together. It was
a strenuous life, and the
only “holidays” were
days when it was too
wet to work in the
fields. On those occa
sions they did their
washing. Idropped
in with their mail
one day as they
were about to be-
gin the wash.
“There is nao soap,
Donal.” “Wewull
hef to buy some
I’m think in’.”
“Aye.” “Wha’s
turn is’t, Donal?”
“Yoors, A lick,
mon.” “I dinna
thinksae.” “Ido,
laddie.” “I ha’e
madoots.” “Week
weel, we wull see,
get the account
book doon and turn
back.” They did,
but the washing
had to be put off
as it was too late
when they had
finished going
through the ac-
counts. The last
bar of soap had
been bought by
Donald, three and
a half years be-
fore.
The first Cabi-
net position offered
to Henry Pa,rkes in N.S.W. was that of Treasurer.
Parkes declined it, and immediately afterwards
called a meeting of his creditors.
The “crawl” of the English press—even
the serious press—is pitiful. London Outlook
recently :
Not the least admirable result of the Prince of Wales’s
many voyages are the speeches he makes on his return.
If he travels with much of the zest of Homer’s rnany-
counselled wanderer, he reflects upon his travels with
something of the breadth of Thucydides. At the Guildhall
on Thursday last his words had just the touch of states-
manship and eloquence which made his earlier utterance
famous on returning from the Colonies.
The Outlook knows as well as anybody that the
Yorklet is about equal to a 305.-a-week billet as a
clerk, and that his “eloquence” and “states-
manship” are provided by his staff. A slight
sense of humor would have prevented at least
the comparisons with Odysseus and Thucydides.
A recently-deceased Melbourne identity
made a considerable part of his tidy little fortune
by farming right in the midst of a
crowded suburb. He rented numerous
small and jam-tinny vacant allotments,
and by intense culture made these un-
promising spaces fit to fatten a constant
succession of animals for the slaughter-
man. One of his ideas was to utilise as
manure a waste product of the butchery
trade—the disintegrated matter left be-
hind by huge boilings-down of meat for
dripping. This unconsidered trifle was
annexed gratis and spread on the subur-
ban farmer’s land, and soon exemplified
the adage that all flesh is grass—when
it isn’t lucerne or sorghum. Latterly
operations were restricted by much of
the land being built upon, but even up to
the time of the old man’s death his live
stock was to be seen peacefully grazing
on the green-stuff which had been helped
along by its departed and boiled brother.
Since Tom Price became Premier
of S.A. he has been held up as a shining
light of Methodism, and that body claims
a certain amount of credit for his poli-
tical development. Tom was, however,
not always looked upon as a white-
haired boy by the Methodists of “South
Oss,” and on one occasion a big d
uttered by Tom caused him to receive a
rebuke from one of the country Methodist
ministers. He had received and accepted
an invitation to take an anniversary ser-
vice in a country town, and all arrange-
ments for the same had been made. In
the meantime, however, at an unemployed
meeting, an insult to John Abel MTher-
son, South Australia’s first labor leader,
roused Price to a d . It was a bitter,
bitter, but quite justifiable d . This
d made good copy, and was published
in the daily papers. The following day
Price got a letter intimating that, “in
consequence of the above ” (which was the d j,
his preaching engagement had been cancelled.
The Bulletin recently received a letter
from a firm named Thomson and Brown, described
as “ auctioneers and real estate agents, Hunter-
street, Wellington, Maoriland.” And on the top
of the envelope, above the firm’s name, appeared
a shout in big capitals, “ We two sell the Earth ! ”
The stupendous cheek of the Maorilander looms
up in that advt. It is a pity someone named
Biggs or Jagger doesn’t start in the same business
in the same street with the motto: “I sell the
Universe. Fixed Stars Going Cheap.”
Amongst those who got a nose-ring and a
feather on the King’s official birthday is Mr. A.
W. Howitt, of Melbourne, who was leader of the
expedition which went from Melbourne direct to
search for Burke and Wills. His party found the
survivor John King. After burying the remains
of Burke and Wills, Howitt returned to Mel-
bourne with King. He was afterwards sent out
to bring in the Burke and Wills remains. He has
held high positions in the Civil Service, has
written on the customs &c. of the aborigines, and
altogether is too good for a C.M.G. brand, which
is a very small shell-necklace at best.
“ G. 8.” : Quite agree with “ Nym ” (Bul-
letin, 28/6/’O6) re the Senate candidate, Barker.
Appearance is nothing. The main point is that
Steve Barker’s a grafter and grafts in the right
cause. If he hadn’t had an almighty capacity for
toil he would never have successfully humped the
(unpaid-for) burden of secretarying the P.L.C.
through troubled times. It was a heart-breaking,
day-and-night job, but Steve stuck to it for long
years. He is certainly excitable on the temper-
ance question, but probably Barker knows better
than most men the number of the worker’s
shillings that go into the drink and gamble busi-
ness. Barker’s all right, and I hope Victoria
returns two other Senators as good as “ Whiskers.”
TWO OF THEM.
“ You ought to be ashamed of yourshelf, Phyllis,
to shpeak like that before a third pershon.”
“ Quan ” : Melbourne brewer M‘Cracken’s
daughter, mentioned by “Tryphena” (B. 14/6/’O6)
is not the first of that ilk to possess the name of
Joy. Henry Joy M'Cracken was one of the lead-
ing spirits in the Irish uprising of 1798. His
name appears on the ’9B memorial in Waverley
(Sydney) cemetery.
Augustine Birrell, of the new British
Ministry, has added a new word to the British
language— “ birrelligious.” His Education Bill
isn’t quite secular nor is it quite religious. It is
half-and-half, though no one knows for certain
which half. It is partly this, and mostly that,
with a large tendency to be the other thing.
Birrell, who is a religious man, has tried to please
all religions with his birrelligious Bill, and seems
to have satisfied nobody. He hasn’t even amused
anybody.
Notes from the Scientific Australian,
June 21:—
Charles Atkins, President of Australian Chamber of
Manufactures, age 47, English birth, educated in London.
Became a sailor. Shipwrecked on Australian coast in
ship Hereford. All the money he had was 4s. 3d.
Became shipping clerk in Melbourne. Then with Kitchen
and Co., the candle men. Became expert in lubricating
oils. Started b'z. therein for himself 1883. During his
two years Presidency of Vic. Chamber of Manufactures
the membership increased from 280 to 580. Intends to
go for the Senate.
It’s hard to be original these times, but
one Melbourne lady is making a desperate effort to
that end. She has taken to gating sternly from
under her rolled-gold thatch at the fiction dis-
played in booksellers’ windows. Then she remarks
loudly to an accompanying male (and the passing
crowd), “By G—d, Harry” (or Reginald, or
Frank, or Algie, as the case maybe), “ what a
rotten thing is the modern novel ! ” The critical
lady is acquiring a great reputation for intellect.
According to Hobart Mercury, Premier
Evans, of Tasmania
Cabled the Premier of N.S.W. (Sir Joseph Carruthers),
congratulating him, on behalf of the Government of Tas-
mania, on having the title of K.C.M.G. conferred upon
him by his Majesty the King.
And poor Joseph hadn’t got it after all. It was
one Carruthers Gould who had gathered in the
“dignity.” Evans, by the way, is said to have
congratulated Senator Gould also, and he hadn’t
got the blessed “dignity” either.
“ U.” : Asserted that Clarence Weber
told a Victorian teetotal society’s representative
“ that Hackenschmidt, the great wrestler, strongly
advised him never to drink or smoke, but to
abstain absolutely.” While Hackenschmidt was
staying at a Melbourne hotel I had several oppor-
tunities of observing that he had no particular
objection to looking upon the brandy when it was
brown. Yet somehow the teetotal wrestlers (if
there are any) have had to admit his supremacy
for a considerable period. As to his alleged good
advice—it is easy to give away that sort ot thing.
J. Bear (J. B.), of Melbourne Leader, is
publishing in book-form the articles that have ap-
peared over his signature in that journal. Bear
is a Mt'bournian of longstanding, and his little
volume of travel-sketches, “Impressions of a Vic-
torian Abroad,” is supplemented with the “Con-
fessions of a Naughty Boy of the Fifties,” which
have at least a historical value. It is a very
modest publication. The author invites subscrip-
tions for specially-bound copies of his book at 2s.
6d. each —to be paid on delivery. There have
been some Australian authors and authoresses
who collected half-guinea subscriptions in advance
for books which never transpired.
Maoriland papers are teeming with stories
of the late Seddon and the temporary Hall Jones.
Of the latter, it is recalled that he once nearly
upset Seddon’s applecart, by refusing to
give up his rooms at the Hotel Cecil, com-
mandeered for the accommodation of the Duke-
ling’s suite when that scrap of royalty was visit-
ing Maoriland. The landlord seems to. have been
a muddler, or suddenly puffed up with pride at
the fact that Royalty was about to drink its beer
under his roof. He notified a number of regular
boarders that their rooms would be wanted, by
placing laconic notices on the doors, “ These apart-
ments are required for the Duke’s suite.” Jones
inquired if his apartments would also be required,
and was informed that they would not. Yet he
came home and found the sudden notice gummed
on his door. He tore it down, and declined to
leave the rooms. King Dick came along and
stormed, but Jones sat tight, and shut the
King up by tendering his resignation. Then the
absurdity of the business hit the King suddenly,
and he tore up the resignation with a chuckle.
Died at Goulburn (N.S.W.), aged 96,
Mrs. Bull, widow of old Colonel Bull of the
Castlemaine (Vic.) goldfields. The Colonel, who
was a year older than his wife, lived till 1902
72 years after their wedding day. Bull was a
goldfields commissioner, and it was he and a crony
from the same military academy at Sandhurst
(England) who gave Bendigo the English name
which it bore for so many years. After retiring,
the old colonel planted vines on a few acres of
ground at Castlemaine, and tended them until
some years ago, when the white-haired Darby
and Joan became at last too feeble to live alone.
About George :
The will of old George Lansell, of Bendigo, is a curious
document. It is bulky arid bound in leather. Agreatnum
ber of legacies are left, but the largest is £lOOO, and that
is to his widow. He left two churches £5OO each
and the Hospital and Benevolent Asylum £lOO each
One sister is to receive £5 a week, another £3 a week,
another £250 and £l5O worth of shares, while his brother
gets £250 worth of shares. The rest of the legacies were all
small, and don’t really affect the estate, which is left
almost entirely to his wife and children. In a codicil he
directs that £lOOO shall be paid to each of his children on
reaching the age of 21 years, and £30,000 on reaching 25
years. When the youngest is 25 years of age the estate
is to be divided among them. He stipulates that his
widow, who is made guardian of the children, shall have
them taught a trade or profession, so that they may
be able to earn their own living. No one knew better
than old George how easily millions melt to nothing. He
returned a couple of times himself to his trade of
soap-boiler, and he wanted his children to also have an
apron and a boiler to return to if the “splosh" took
wings.
The late Premier Seddon, although such a
mighty grafter, was one of the most unpunctual
men who ever lived. He used to call Cabinet
meetings for a certain hour, and then work on at
the matter in hand till the meeting was a couple
of hours overdue. Most of his colleagues got to
know this little way of the King’s, and never
dreamed of turning up less than an hour late, and
then had plenty of time for a smoke and a chat.
Hall Jones, however, wasn’t built that way. He
was punctuality itself, and these waits used to
drive him frantic. One night he waited two
hours, and then went home to bed. About
10 p.m. the King arrived, and inquired testily
where Hall Jones was. “Gone home after
waiting two hours, sir,” was the varlet’s expla-
nation. The King sent a message to him to come
up at once. Half an hour later a second and more
stiffly-worded message was sent. “Cabinet was
waiting ; important business ; come immediately.”
Back came the answer : “ Honorable Hall Jones
gone to bed. Will attend Cabinet at 10 to-
morrow morning.” And he did.
KING-CUSHION.
Mr. Reid, responding to an address of welcome de-
livered by the Mayor (Alderman Orase), said be wished to
convey to the ladies of Queensland who had assisted in
political organisation his heartfelt thanks.
“ Now, remember, whatever you do, don’t drop
me! ”
Mr. W. R. Campbell, M.L.C., who was
buried at Waverley on Thursday of last week,
belonged to the oldest clan Campbell in Australia.
His grandfather, Robert Campbell, came to Syd-
ney from Calcutta in 1796, and established himself
as a merchant at Circular Quay. He was the
father, or thereabouts, of the importing disease in
Australia. He married a sister of John Palmer,
Assistant Commissary-General, and had five sons
and two daughters. Three of the sons entered
political life: John, M.L.C., ; Charles, M.L.C.;
and Robert, M.L. A. The latter was Treasurer in
1859, and perished in harness. He was the father
of the recently deceased.
CRICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I burn the midnight wick
For Crick,
Soft-spoken Mr. Crick.
Strong language makes him sick,
And sweet, endearing epithets are what he likes to pick :
To call his foe a pic-
Aroon and heretic
Is quite beyond the limits of the cultured rhetoric
Of Crick,
The linguist Crick,
Who throws no verbal brick.
The rhymes flow smooth and slick
For Crick,
Angelic Mr. Crick,
Whose wings are sprouting quick.
As a bona fide saint he is completely up to Dick.
He keeps his courage spick
And span, though round him lick
The flames of slander which with long and eddying
tongues do flick-
Er round Crick.
The massive Crick,
Defies the envious click ;
And woe betide the enemy who tries to play a trick
On Crick !
vie.
Y.


On
The
Historic tSlopeo/Brichfieid Hill
\r
IjUCF
»iy
V“vU
y_ v
SKID
2®!2s
■IB
■M
eg
a :
1“!-
m
m
ill
mm
-s
i!S3
Ml
*\m
n raim
Sis
I'M
n HI
TIB
11
DEQSElftlllfflHlnl
hr!
N SIS
i
338
on
mm
BSI!
/r?
1
SP
£
ri
fere
jl:
w
'sa
HUM
...
\V
w
Where a HUNDRED YEARS AGO BULLOCK TEAMS struggled up a BUSH TRACK, where now ELECTRIC
TRAMS, MOTOR CARS, and VEHICLES of EVERY DESCRIPTION RUN TO AND FRO, and TENS OF
THOUSANDS of People DAILY SEEK THE BENEFITS of j» j»
Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Prices.
ANTHONY HORDERN <&. SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS js?
V. J. Daley " Bulletin ’
Dr.
Fund
TREASURER’S STATEMENT to 30th JUNE, 1906.
Or
Receipts.
Expenditure.
£ s. d.
By Cash paid to Mrs. Dale}' .. 40 5 3
„ Funeral Expenses .. .. 25 0 0
~ Preliminary Expenses paid to
Daley Matinee Fund .. .. 910 8
~ Exchange 6
£74 16 5
Balance transferred to Daley
Matinee Fund .. .. .. 20 4 4
£95 0 9
WM. MACLEOD, Hon. Treasurer.
Examined and found correct. —FRED. FULLWOOD, F.S.A.A. (Eng.), Incorporated
Accountant, Auditor.
DALEY MATINEE FUND.
Dr. TREASURERS’ STATEMENT to 30th JUNE, 1906. Or.
Receipts.
To Contribution, Sale of Tickets, Music (“ Love is a Fade-
less Flower,” presented by Miss Somerville), Souvenir
Advertising-, and Receipts from Theatre Royal Per-
formance
Expenditure.
By Secretary’s Expenses .. £2 110
„ Advertisings 32 5 0
~ Theatre Royal
~ Wages and Lighting .. .. .. .. 11 17 2
~ Cartage 200
„ Programmes 6 14 0
~ Dr. Clay (medical fees) .. .. . .. 2 2 0
~ Cost of Monument .. .. >.* ... 25 15 0
~ Total amount handed ..
~ Mrs. Daley to 4th July, 1906 .. .. .. 40 0 0
~ Cheque Book .. .. 2 0
£122 17 6
By Balance.. .. 268 8 10
£391 6 4
J. BLAKENY ) TT
W. MACLEODJ HoN> rREASUR;ERS -
Examined and found correct. —FRED. FULLWOOD, F.S.A.A. (Eng.), Incorporated
Accountant, Auditor.
“ Lil ” : There is no originality about the
average circulating-library subscriber. She can
be tracked through book after book by a perpetual
trail of biscuit-crumbs. Even in the most thrill-
ing parts of “The Misadventures of Euphrosvne ’
or “The Prodigal Stepmother” she apparently
keeps or- munching like a contemplative cow.
One might forgive her if she left an occasional
trace of pickled walnuts or onion stuffing. But
this eternal biscuit !
About the dullest town of its size in the
Commonwealth at present is Fremantle (W.A.).
Ten or twelve years ago a couple of thousand
passengers from the Eastern States sometimes
landed in a day, and accommodation of any
kind was hard to get for love or money.
Hundreds dossed on "the sandy beach before
trekking for Coolgardie ; and up at Perth
things were no better—except for spielers and
other tugs, who had a roaring time among the
men down from the fields. There wasn't a decent
pub. in either place, and newcomers were plainly
given to understand that they weren’t wanted in
any place except the bar. Gradually it dawned
on Groper landlords that good hotels might pay,
and one after another started to pull down his
rookery and put up something better. There are
now a dozen houses in Perth good enough for Syd-
ney, and three or four in Fremantle, but most of
them are practically unoccupied, and live on their
bar trade. But even now there are some old pub.
survivals both in Perth and .Fremantle. I see
one in my mind’s eye—old and ricketty, swarm-
ing with rats and cockroaches. It has been con-
demned over and over again, but it is still
licensed, and the bar is in full swing. The win-
dows of the upper storey are broken, and the
whole establishment has the appearance of a
deadbeat chucked out at closing-time. Needless
to mention that the property is owned by a
wealthy Groper who moans that things have been
going to the devil ever since 't’othersiders rushed
the country.


VALAZE! —There is magic in the sound, but not so
much magic as in the preparation itself.
An absolutely pure skin food, which will cure the most
obstinate cases of freckles, sunburn, and wrinkles.
Give it a trial, according to directions, for at least two
months. That is all we ask.
Try a jar and prove these assertions.
Price, 3s. 6d., or large jar 6s. (containing three times
the amount). Postage 6d. Leading chemists or direct
from Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street,
Melbourne. Dr. Lykuski’s Special Valaze Blackhead
and Open Pore Cure, guaranteed to cure the most ob-
stinate cases, 2s. 6d. a tin, by post 3s. Valaze Herbal
Soap, lasts six months, 2s. a cake. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to cover postage, and we will forward you our latest
edition of the new “ Guide to Beauty,” a book that is full
of most valuable information concerning the skin and
health, and will prove most useful and instructive
to anyone.
Mile. Helena Rubinstein, the Russian Skin and Com-
plexion Specialist, who lately returned from Paris,
Vienna, London, and Russia, will demonstrate the Art of
Face Massage and Face Treatment for home use at
Washington H. Soul’s, 160 Pitt-street, daily till end of
July. Mile. Rubinstein will not accept any consulta-
tion fees.*
C£
v*
vx*
%•*
tL-ktf.
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN « OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
4 '*
Dress FABRies
Are Stocked dv the
Leading Drapers. _
TR ad E ma R kTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 10, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
Mrs. Cruickshank, second daughter of the late
Baronet William Clarke, and widow of the genial
red-headed squatter whose name she adorns, came
out of her seclusion and gave a most frilly ball
last week. As she is some six feet in height, she
was a good clothes-peg for her pale grey crepe
de chine gown, and the lace fans in her hair were
high enough to be seen. The waitresses wore
violet b,ows in their coiffures, and the menus and
programmes were decorated to match. But
what the waitresses appreciated more than the
bows in their hair was the glittering coin in the
hand. For the generous squatteress distributed
20 guineas among the serving damsels. (In this
democratic country the waitress ought to have a
show now and then in Vanity Fair chronicles.)
Half Sydney is whirling like Dervishes, only it
whirls on roller skates, at the Exhibition Build-
ing. They roll for just love of rolling, or for the
good of their livers, or to reduce superfluous
tissue, or because everyone else is rolling. But
one tragic comedian has come a cropper —two
croppers, in fact, and the worse of the two was
not the fall that broke her ankle. She
was a pretty and charming little person,
with a grey eye or so, and the most beauti-
ful furs—sable toque, big sable muff and stole,
and a short blue velvet dress. Several men
skated an acquaintance with her,land rolled up
regularly night after night to roll alongside those
small feet and lovely furs. But they couldn’t
learn her name and place, for she always went
away in a hansom, and wrapped in a long plain
cloak. She fell and broke her ankle, and
three young men were almost glad of the
tragedy, for it gave them a chance of extend-
ing their acquaintance. She bore up bravely
under the accident, but became hysterical
when she couldn’t shunt her admirers. They
propped her with cushions in the cab, loaded
her with genuine sympathy, and report says that
one of them ran by the side of her vehicle. She
had to give an address, and it proved to be of the
kind the Gussies expected. They said they knew
by those furs that she was a Pointer of the
pointest, or, if a tourist, that her address would
be Hotel -. It was the latter. And when
she was carried off to r.oom 1001, the three
Gussies asked an official the name of the Princess
in disguise. “She’sold Mrs. Battleaxe’s maid,”
was the reply. Mrs. B. went to bed very early,
had a basin of gruel, and slept soundly. Her
furs and her maid took every night out at the rink.
At the first night of “On the Quiet,” the audi-
ence carried a big sprinkling of Royal Comic
Opera stars ; it is the theatrical’s idea of a holiday
to ride on the other fellow’s ’bus. Florence
Young, with her industrious, resolute smile, graced
one box. Lauri shone in the dress circle, chaperon-
ing a lady who was obviously proud of his com-
pany. This theatrical sprinkling gave a more
than usually gay air to the house between the acts
when the hum of bright chatter was especially
marked.
I’ve come to the conclusion that the one great
essential of a stage success is a woman of elan.
Given a big, bright woman—the nearer she is to
sft. lOin. the better, and if she isn’t big she must
be very, very bright to atone—and a show will
pull through despite all handicaps. But without
a strong feminine attraction, though the play may
be perfect and the men angels, there is no hope
of anything but a lukewarm success.
The curious thing is that the attractive stage
woman draws not so much the men, but other
women. It is the girls, from 16 to 60, who flock
to her shrine, mortgage their pin-money to gaze
upon her often and often, beset the stage-door to
cheer her incomings and outgoings, and write her
ardent letters. I wonder if this feminine worship
of attractive women is peculiar to Australia? It
would seem to argue, according to that new and
startling book, “Sex and Character” (which I’d
only advise you to read in parts), a strong degree
of masculinity among Australian girls.
In my suburb the Perfect Lady Novelettes
U,sed to be the favorite hunting-ground for sweetly
pretty names to confer on the latest additions to
the birth-rate. Of late, however, it has become
a com non custom for young couples to go medi-
tating among the tombs in the adjacent cemetery
with a view to finding on the stones somethin &
that even the imagination of the novelette-writer
was unable to conceive. Thus a man who is stag-
gering to an early grave under the weighty appel-
lation of Seton Delacceur Brown, knows that after
he is dead his name will be adapted as Seton Dela-
cceur Smith or something like that to suit some un-
fortunate infant. The system does not always
work satisfactorily. One resident thought she had
struck something unique when she called her
youngest cherub Eastlynne Woodthorpe Wax-
bylle Johnson, after a late lamented who lies in
an obscure corner of the Necropolis, but she was
driven to tears by the discovery that the Thomson
and Ferguson families of the same terrace had
been at the same tombstone before her She
thought the name was new, and it was only a left
off remnant with the footprints of Ferguson and
the teeth-marks of Thomson all over it.
I hear of the marriage at Broke, which the
gqide-book tells me is somewhere near Jerry’s
Plains, of George William Parramore B A
M.K, to Amelia Rodd, described as the youngest
daughter of the late John Blaxland, of “Ford-
wich,” and the grand-neice of Gregory Blaxland
who, with Lawson and Wentworth, discovered a
pass over the Blue Mountains in 1813 I have
discovered the same pass many a time in the
train, but I suppose, from the fuss that has been
made about it, there was more difficulty in findino-
a pass at the beginning of last century than there
is now.
„ A'..®- the lady politician and
auj-Socmlist who went to address a meeting at
Dubbo lately, faced an audience of one—woman
She began her address “Ladies and Gentlemen ”
—then correcting herself started afresh with
Madam.’ My personal fancy in the starting
of a political address by a woman runs to that
a - lad y Sam Slick to her meeting:
Miss President, feller-wimmen, and male trash
ginerally.”
By way of interlude
A Follj' Dialogue.
winter garden at the Australia Hotel. Usual
Tuesday afternoon concert in progress. All the tea
tables, save one, are occupied by various parties. Enter
Mrs. Doasyoulike, Mrs. Lambswuol, Miss Lambswool,
aria a small, pretty, discontented-looking young woman
whom they call lanthe. They rustle round the vacant
table near where a girl is singing an air from Rossini.
Mrs. Doasyoulike (to waiter who is bending his spine
as if it were whalebone): “ I’m sure this is not the table I
wrote for. YVe are much too near the musicians.”
Waiter (in lowest of audible tones and with a side-
glance at the singer): “Did you specify your table,
Madam? This one”
Mrs. Doasyoulike : “ No, of course not; but how was I
to know we’d be so close as to see ” (turns to Mrs. Lambs-
wool) “to see that girl’s palate? Is that a thing from
raul Jones’ she’s singing? Tea, dear? And you,
lanthe?” (To Waiter): “Four teas, please.” (To Miss
Lambswool) : “ Hasn’t that girl at the piano got a nice
back ? ”
Miss Lambswool : “ I was just thinking the same. And
the piano at that elevation shows her to such advantage.
I wonder if they’d like me to play at one of these Tues-
days ? ”
Mrs. Lambswool: “Eleanor! How can you? The
performers are paid.”
lantiie (with a whole lemon in her tone): “ Besides,
you have so many opportunities of displaying your back
to advantage.”
Mrs. Doasyoulike (hastily): “Heavens! Do look!
Here’s Mrs. Buster-Cross coming in.”
(The united gaze of the Garden is fixed on a tall, middle-
aged lady with a low-comedy face, dressed in violet
chiffon velvet and ermine. She walks—with the pounding
footfall of the stout when tightly-laced and strapped—to a
large tea-party, and is received rapturously. She nods
to Mrs. Lambswool.)
Mrs. Lambswool (to her hostess) : “ Everyone is calling
on her. I wish you would. If you are not easily shocked
you will be amused. She says the most awful things in
the sweetest voice imaginable.”
lantiie (pettishly biting at the posy of violets pinned
to her stone-marten stole): “ YVhat a lot of good qualities
you can hang on a hyphen if it’s gilded.”
Miss Lambswool : “ Mother, do listen to that girl play-
ing a Chopin Impromptu 1 It’s so funny.”
Mrs. Lambswool : “ Not as funny as the way she’s done
her hair.”
(A girl, wearing an emerald green hat on her red hair,
comes over and greets the four and asks, as she plays
with Mrs. Doasyoulike’s bangle, “ Did you see Mrs.
Buster-Cross ? I don’t know her, but I’m told she says the
most awful things in the sweetest voice imaginable.”
Mrs. Lambswool looks annoyed and lanthe smothers a
laugh in her muff. Green-hatted girl departs.)
Mrs. Lambswool : “ Her complexion isn’t as clear as she
thinks or she wouldn’t wear that color. It fairly
barks."
Mrs. Doasyoulike : “ Here’s the bride coming over.
Isn’t she sweet ? ”
A charming young woman in white cloth, edged with
brown fur, shakes hands all around and says “ How cosy
you look, why didn’t you ask me?” (Looking at confec-
tionery on table): “ What nice cakes 1 Those on our
table are filthy. Only point about our table is that
we can overhear Mrs. Buster-Cross. She’s saying
the most awful things in the sweetest voice imaginable.”
(Mrs. Lambswool colors a feeble red.)
lantiie (laughing outright): “You Sydney people are
original. Who first used that superior phrase ? I’d love
to track it to its source 1 Good thing the plague isn’t as
catching.”
Mrs. Doasyoulike (soothingly, as she looks at pro-
gramme of music): “ I love these concerts. Who’s that
young man singing ‘ Out on the Rocks ? ’ ‘ Nield 1 ’ Well,
he’s got one of those new silk-spotted waistcoats.” (To
Mrs. Lambswool): “I suppose you heard about ?”
(They lean towards each other, with their muffs held
against their faces, and talk privately.)
Miss Lambswool (to lanthe, indicating a tall, slender
woman in a faultless tailor-made, who is making a tour of
the tables): “Of course you know her. She was here
when Captain Cook unfurled the flag.”
lantiie : “She has a steady hand for a centenarian.”
Miss Lambswool : “ Eh ? ”
lanthe : “ I never saw better drawing than the mouth
she’s given herself with a stick of rouge—a greater
success than Nature’s work. No curves to guide
her; she’s just painted it into the correct shape.
There’s Geraldine Rivers going to sing. Let’s listen to
her ; she’s got a good voice.”
Miss Lambswool : “ I like her hair. Have you seen
those shampoo powders that are sold inside' gelatine
capsules?”
lantiie : “ I make my own hair-washes.” (They put
their heads toget her and talk earnestly about shampoos
until the song is finished.)
Mrs. Lambswool (concluding private, between-the-muffs
conversation with Mrs. Doasyoulike): “ And the baby is
only eight weeks old. He’ll marry again, you’ll see.
And won’t the second wife be in luck ! ”
A large woman looking furtively from under the eaves
of a red hat, comes over and greets the four. Three of
them call her Mrs. Foozler or Rachel. lanthe pretends
to be dozing. Mrs. Foozler looks straight and signifi-
cantly into Mrs. Doasyoulike’s eyes, and asks impres-
sively, “ Have you heard about Fenella Psmythe? You
know she’s been taken to a private hospital?”
Mrs. Doasyoulike I (Astonished, and in the same
Mrs. Lambswool f breath): “ Appendicitis.”
Mrs. Foozler: “0 dear no. That’s not its name. In
fact it hasn’t been christened yet.”
Mrs. Doasyoulike/“ How awful. And who do they
Mrs. Lambswool I say is the ”
Mrs. Foozle : “ Why, young Potosi, of course.”
She departs on a tour of the tables to spread the
scandal.
lantiie (waking up): “ All women with red-brown
quick-moving eyes, like hers, are deceitful and slander-
ous.”
Mrs. Lambswool (indicating a tall woman in grey
tweeds): “ Look at that t.hirteen-gored skirt of Mary
Jones. Nine's enough for anyone. O, she’s coming here 1
Now you’ll hear her say ‘ I think you’re thinner,’ or
‘ You’re stouter than you were.’ Also, she’ll make the
opportunity to tell us she didn’t see us at the Polo on
Saturday.”
Mary Jones (with a sable muff pushed up as far as her
elbow and shaking hands through it): “How are you
all? Didn’t know you were here till Rachel told me.
(To lanthe): You’re thinner than you were.”
lantiie (laughing): “And Mrs. Lambswool is stouter,
and you didn’t see us at Polo on Saturday.” (Mary Jones
looks hat pins at her and departs.)
Mrs. Doasyoulike (finishing a conversation with a lady
at another table, her voice rising above the crash of a
pianoforte selection); “ I don’t know the difference
between the ‘ no breakfast cure ’ and ‘ the simple life.’”
Mrs. Lambswool (in aggrieved tones): “Is the pro-
gramme finished?”
lanthe: “We must come earlier next Tuesday and
talk through the whole of it.”
Some of the furniture which stood about.
Government House in the days of Governor
Fitzroy went under the auctioneer’s hammer in
Sydney lately. Fitzroy, who was a rough,
knockabout sort of man, is said to have given
away a good deal of official furniture in tips or as.
a sign of friendship. Cash was a matter of
chronic scarcity with him.
Maorilanders from Auckland will recollect that
handsome Swede, Madame Bahnsen, whose
doctor-husband died of consumption a few years
after his marriage. The soprano afterwards
married Mr. Albert Mallinson, the composer, and
went to England with him ; and the pair are
among the elect of the white-hot music-makers
there. Mallinson is organist of the swagger
little English church at Dresden, and writes songs
deeper than Chinese.metaphysics. Every nowand
then his wife “ interprets ” tnese songs in London.
At last interpretation she was assisted by
Madame Ada Crossley, and the audience that
gathered to hear her listened as reverently as did
the Hebrews of old to the voice from Sinai.
Sixty-five tourists from Victoria arrived at the
Australia Hotel to-day, to do a tour under the
wing of our bantling Tourist Bureau. They left
Melbourne ac fi.ls yesterday morning, and the
Bureau will return them there (not returned
empties, but filled with Blue Mountain and Bulli
Pass and similar scenery) at 11.8 on Monday
night if Mr. Bent’s train doesn’t break down, or
break up, or break out in a fresh place on the way.
Miss Taliaferro is the smallest and most light-
weight leading lady I ever met. She wouldn’t do
for Lady Macbeth, and she wouldn’t do for Nellie
Denver (in “ Silver King ”), who has to draw her-
self to her full height and defy the bailiff or the
landlord or somebody. A great deal depends on
height; a huge, beefy Ajax may defy the light-
ning, but a small one has to be content with defy-
ing a box of matches. Mabel Taliaferro weighs
seven stone three pounds. She rather undervalues
tlie seven stone but is very proud of the three
pounds. Her feet and hands are in miniature, her
eyebrows are the finest of dark crescents like
curves made with a drawing-pen, her face, perfect
in its oval and with tiny features, is twice the size
of a dessert spoon. She isn’t out of drawing or
out of proportion, but—how she must dread Eat!
If the tiny face got fat the tiny features would
become just indications of features. She has
foregathered with that other little American,
Mrs. Shipman (whose “Ered ” was pilot-star for
Jessie Maclachlan, and is the light in front of
Marie Narelle), and to hear the pair addressing
one another as Hun, which is their short for
Honey, would make a bee laugh. Down in Ken-
tucky or Virginia or whichever part of the South
the little Taliaferro was raised, they call her name
Tolliver. So perhaps George Eliot’s Maggie
Tulliver was originally a Taliaferro of a family
that came from Vermilionville, Louisiana, or
Bangville, Texas. “Down South,” says the
miniature woman, “ they ask you who was your
grandfather. In New York and Chicago their
only interest is in your bank-balance.”
The Sydney tea representative of Lipton, the
man who gave Queen Alexandra £25,000 when
she put out an appeal for funds wherewith to
feed the London poor, had a reception at the
Town Hall last Eriday. Over a thousand persons
attended and ate confectionery and drank Lipton’s
tea to the music of a full band, and reminded one
another that the yachts Shamrock 1., 11., and HI.
were owned and raced by Lipton the glorified Tea-
leaf. Also that he counted King Edward among the
drinkers of his brew. Eurther, that it was Tea-leaf
Lipton who told King Edward, when the latter was
about to visit Ireland, that if His Majesty desired to
commit a real bomb-proof act, he ought to release
Colonel Lynch from his coop. Miss Narelle
brought this storyette from London. She was at
Lipton’s house when Mrs. Lynch came there to
thank the Famous Blend for his intercession.
Miss Rose Musgrove had some real blankets,
red and blue, made into frocks for herself before
leaving these smiling shores, and at the Lancers’
ball at Parramatta, last week, she wore between
the dances and the draughts a cloak made out of
a blue blanket.
“Reka” sends me a society item from the
King Country of Maoriland :
I went to a Maori wedding near here last week. The
Maoris danced all night, and five days later were reported
to be dancing still. Then the Maori parson came along
and confiscated all the provisions as the only means of dis-
persing the festive folk, who found dancing minus
refreshments depressing, and went home.
Most of the ladies present were barefooted, but they all
wore gloves. The air was sharky for half-a-mile to'lee-
ward of the celebrations. On the first night, supper-
cream puffs, dried shark, cockles, mince-pies, etc.—was
laid on the ballroom floor at twelve o’clock, with the
wedding-cake, looking like the model of some cathedral
iced over, on a gorgeous yellow satin table centre. Stray
dogs were there in packs. Dogs that had owners insisted
on following them through all the dances. It made the
lancers like a hunt meeting—dogs barking and jumping
madly on all sides—and the grand chain was as good as
an obstacle race. Dogs without owners danced by them-
selves.
I asked a Maori girl the time, and she thought I begged
the loan of her brown paw in the giddy polka, and
gripped me promptly. She found I couldn’t dance at all,
and left me in the middle of the room, with a disgusted
“Ugh! You no dance! You mad! Go’way.” Then an
indignant young man—hers, I think—offered to show me
with his fists how to treat a lady. Next, a wretched cur
—his, I’m sure—bit my leg to show which way his sym-
pathies went.
The prettiest Maori girl I’ve ever seen harrowed my
feelings by producing a dreadful black pipe and smoking
it. I was so grieved at the profanation that I left. In
doing so I fell over a pig outside and skinned my nose
badly. But I had a great time for all that.
“ The handsomest lioness in captivity ” and her
two cubs are among the paying guests at Womb-
well and Bostock’s Circus, at Prince Alfred Park.
Did you ever cuddle a lion cub? It is just like
playing with a jolly little silky St. Bernard pup.
Remember Bret Harte’s baby bear ? It was so
loveable, soft and pretty that the owner, a young
digger, used to say to a new-ehum, as he assumed
his best expression, “ The boys say he’s very
like me. Do you think so?” And he
would be very much flattered if the visi-
tor “had seen the likeness at once.” I wonder
if the circus proprietors would be pleased if
I told them that little “ Melbourne ” and “Vic-
toria ” (the cubs were born in Melbourne) were
very like them. The youngsters roll over and
•over each other, growling and showing their milk
teeth and mumbling at the hand thrust through
their bars, while next door their handsome
mother, all in tawny yellow (why cannot I
isay she wore a chiffon sun-rayed skirt,
with a little silk bolero, and a black and
tawny picture hat sloped over the left eye ? I will
say so and then deny it in a footnote) looked on
with a magnificent frown that questioned one’s
boivt Jides. And here I may remark that I’d like
to see that same Mrs. Leo with a little more cubic
space in her cage. At present she has hardly
room to think or to wave her tail. As for the other
animals, the white-and-barred zebra is a real
nectarine and might be one of the perfectly
matched team that Madame Rejane used to
drive about Baris last year. Her zebras were
harnessed to a yellow dog-cart.
Tenor Reginald Roberts was unable to leave
with the Royal Comics last night. He has a slight
attack of appendicitis. Too much golf and a
tendency to bolt his meals are suggested as the
reasons, though I decline to believe in the second
item.
I have got a handkerchief from England
stamped in black with the averaged-sized Tiki, or
Maori god—at least, I think Tiki was a god, and
I will take the chance. A friend to whom I
showed it declared it was the gazeeka, and pro-
duced a copy of the first-prize English gazeeka.
Sure enough, it was very like a Tiki giving you a
wink. But as the Tiki is an old, old story—Maggie
Papakura’s is 300 years old—and the gazeeka
an invention of yesterday, devised for comic opera
purposes, the Tiki couldn’t have copied the
gazeeka.
This afternoon the life partner of General
Gordon and other white orchid ladies will attend
a meeting at the Australia Hotel to discuss a
benefit concert for little Ella Caspers, the con-
tralto phenomenon. She warbles on August 6at
the Town Hall.
Miss Marie Narelle, with Chester Fentress and
Miss Brandon Usher, return to Sydney next
Friday. Two concerts will be given at the Town
Hall on 13th and 14th July. On the following
day Miss Narelle leaves for Queensland. Thence
she goes to Christchurch (M.L.), where she has
been engaged to open the Exhibition Concert
Hall.
Balance-sheet of the Victor Daley matinee
fund is published in this issue of The Bulletin.
It will be noted that the gross receipts of The
Bulletin fund and the matinee fund reached
£391. It will also be noted that the fiendish
comp, in the advt. has misread the name of Miss
Summerbelle (who contributed so generously to
the fund) into Somerville.
From a Brisbane correspondent:—
There was a pretty large splash at the welcome to
George Reid on Tuesday last, when the Anti-Sosh party,
headed by his Civic Worship, fed the great one on tea and
chocolate biscuits in the Council Chamber. Little Crase,
who looked cold out of the silk and ermine which he
wears as often as the average infant does its bib, said the
usual things about a ’earty welcome and a ’appy occasion,
andthen thegreatonegottowork. When hedid, the Mayor
and his inoffensive lady—who paled before Mrs. George’s
fine art, in pale blue crepe and a girly-girly felt with a
tourist tail of chiffon—sat back and beamed. (They were
up on the Mayoral dais in a stiff row, so their beam showed
to the best advantage.) Georgie got some fine hoary
platitudes off his chest in his whiny voice, and
when an excited individual at the door recalled
to the Owner of the Dog that he had heard him
say the very same things 25 years ago, or there-
abouts, George took it quite as a compliment.
All the Hen League and a few moth-eaten old-timers were
there, and one of the latter got loose on another reminis-
cence about an A.M.P. meeting at which “ the leader of
a great cause ” let loose the flood of his eloquence about
an alleged “job” of the directors, he having been ex-
amined and accepted as a fit and proper subject for
insurance only that morning. There was much applause
about this velocity, and when George concluded with a
touching reference to having been brought up in an
atmosphere of sanctity by a clerical father, the situation
was complete, and the Leaguers took him to their
withered hearts as one woman.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHL.
G. H. Reid is about the champion loafer
of the Australian Parliament. First session he
attended 83 out of 215 sittings; second session,
27 out of 68 ; next session (he was then in office),
90 out of 122 ; next session, 29 out of 90. Total
—229 attendances, 266 absences. And just now
he is up in Queensland, bitterly attacking the
people who don’t trouble to vote. Supposing
each sitting of Parliament represents two divisions,
Reid missed 532 divisions; he represents about
35,000 voters, and disfranchised each of them
532 times. G.H.R. thus has provided 18,620,000
excellent reasons why the people whom he re-
proaches should not trouble to vote. They appoint
Reid to vote for them, and he is too indolent to
do it.
Yictoria lately built a State school at
Forrest, away in the back-blocks. Five saw-mills
surround the township and the local hard-wood
would have lasted four times as long as imported
pine at a little over half the cost, besides keeping
the money in the country and giving Australian
workmen employment. But no ! The importing
habit has so gripped officialdom that “Oregon
timber ” was stipulated for in the tenders as a
matter of course, and the contractor had to get
poor, costly wood from a hillside 8000 miles away,
when he could have got far better and cheaper
material from the next paddock. And this is far
from being an isolated case.


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely ostroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis, and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send' Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. (id., other States, ss.
“Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.*
gtocw*
cDress
Shields
]y[ORE than one Smart and Effective Costume has been
ruined by the use of Poor Dress Preservers. A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair.
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions ; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—-a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar ! In times gone-by
such foolish methods were excusable; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &c., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d.
and Cs. per pot.*
-o-
O’
Tk*
RCCk*
Oft/ELf
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 10, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Every day comes some new evidence of Lady
Northcote’s strong interest in Australian pro-
ducts. For the last week her Ex. has been flaunt-
ing two new frocks of Victorian make. The
tweed is of local build, and the fashioning, of
course, effected right here. Not only does the
cheery dame take pleasure in relating how the
material only cost one and something halfpenny,
but she says her enthusiasm has spread to the
staff, and now one or two noble caddies turn out
in tailorings of local manufacture. Neither do
they squirm or pretend a sacrifice to the example
of an Ex., but call the Australian-made sac “just
it.”
The Australian Club had a further rush of
mixed fun and frivolity the other night. It is the
delight of femininity to get at large in this woolly
club, where the top note of extravagant entertain-
ment is reached. There’s nothing bigger than the
Australian Club hop in Cup-week, and, though
all its other shivoos are done on a less Bacchanalian
scale, they are bright and woolly all the same.
At this recent spree, the club provided Oracles and
Sybils, tinned music and canned views, strum
right off the strings and voices in the raw. It
was voted a glad show. One of the freshest
dresses was flourished by Miss Wanless. It was
satin of La France rose-pink, cut in the Empire
style, that transposes the waist to a higher key.
Mrs. Seton Williams and her Staughton relatives
were garbed up to the moment, and made a glory
of their hair. Mrs. S. Williams has a minted
headpiece, and she coiffs it in dizzy golden
waves. Many of the men displayed pink domes,
the moneyed squatter alone scoring with a thatch.
Dives in the city usually has a bald noddle to
show the world.
The Talbottle dame descends upon the Spinners
at Myoora next time the Penelopes meet. This
is considered as a gracious tribute of patronage to
the Spinners.
A city jeweller tells an amusing story of a
romantic occurrence. A widow called on him
and solicited a private interview'. He escorted
the dame into his strong room. He knew widows.
There she told him a blushful story of how her
first husband had had a cable bangle made for
her lower limb to fit with a soldered clasp just
below the kneeling part, and how she required
this to be unriveted before entering the bonds a
second time. The jeweller felt the situation
keenly. So did the blushing widow ; but he con-
sented to undertake the operation, and with fal-
tering tools removed the last link with the lady’s
past. She’s not likely to get leg-cabled again.
Brides ought to look well into the future before
consenting to be chained in this way,
Bananaland’s occasional Acting-Governor, Jus-
tice Pope Uooper, has been learning to polka
and to work his light-footed way through
the giddy mazes of a quadrille. Full-dress
rehearsals have been held at the V.-R. quarters
by Miss Cooper, but the elderly hopper takes
pains in vain. His mistakes are endless, and
his Lancer partner has to look pleased,
as if everything were perfectly sweet and as it
should be, while the young relative squirms and
tries to bring about a better state of hop. It
must be very trying for the victim. But what
price the feelings of the elderly Cooper, to find
himself floored by a wretched little set of capers
that any schoolboy learns in a few lessons ! In
the Brassey days here, the same trouble was the
experience of vice-regal trippers. The rambling
Ex. got out of his course all the time. But nobody
persevered with the tuition of poor Brassey. He
was left twirling round in the middle of a set like
a teetotum, or the last rose of summer, and the
rest of the Lancer crew went steadily through the
figures minus the elderly novice.
The Domestic Economy Institute is thriving on
lectures, demonstrations of egg-boiling, and some
savory patronage now and then. One day the
most serious-minded of the pupils were completely
upset by a comic scene. The most beautiful
foreign chef in all this city was deputed to show
the untrained how an omelette should be blended,
or something of the sort. And he did so in the
most exquisite tailorings the capital had ever
seen. The feminine gathering was lost between
the contemplation of his heavenly coat-tails and
his exquisite cravat—to say nothing of the
shining glory of his cuffs and coliar. When the
omelette was cooked, the Chesterfield of the stove
passed the dish to the V.R. aide who was in
attendance on the Stonington Dame, and that
blushing youth had to convey the concoction
round to all the novices there assembled. He did
it with a ludicrously embarrassed air. But the
chef posed with cold dignity before the disturbed
audience, and followed the awkward progress of
Ganymede with an emotionless eye. A chef’s
dignity is a precious asset.
Why are secretary persons such a pale, ill-fed,
suppressed lot? Who ever saw a fat jovial,
private secretary except as a mistake? We have
one such in the person of Mr. Share—leading man
to the G. G. Northcote, but he has escaped from
the navy, and hasn’t quite knuckled down to the
dust-dry duties of his private secretaryship. Pre-
sently he’ll fit better into his niche and lose his
curves, his rosy look of health, and his gay
twinkle.
There are many fine skaters at Melb. Glaciarium
these days, but one of the best is the smart
little wife of an Adelaide doctor. Clad in white
serge, feather stole, and a saucy violet toque, she
looks just like the Glaciarium advertisement
Pygmalioned into life.
A young skateress has made a smart if not very
original remark. She said she learnt skating in
four sittings. In most cases the frozen waltz is
only accomplished after the patient has been
broken in many places and bruised everywhere.
The most attractive married couple at the
Glaciarium take rival partners, and turn each
other verdigris green with envy. The spectators
giggle at the game.
The Naicest are wearing gay-colored stockings.
At present the hues run to navy, purple, olive-
green or dull-grey to match the frock. But in
Paris the fashionables turn on hose in the gladdest
colors known to the dyer’s art. It comes as a
shock to see a violet limb show suddenly out from
a wind-blown skirt, or a green stem crowned by a
high skating boot shoot in the air of the Gla-
ciarium these days. One Miss, of foreign cut and
brand, reversed things. Her fall on the frozen
area was distinguished by elaborately embroi-
dered black stockings and bright yellow where
the torchon ought to be.
The annual shivoo of the Old Colonists’ Asso-
ciation drew a large rally of later colonists, with
the visiting Talbottle adding his length to the
scene. The yearly outbreak of gaiety at the
Homes in Northcote is quite a fizzy function, and
is marked in the municipal and official thought as
a spree worth attending. The vice-regal’s drab
speech, which—because requiring the reminiscent
vein of the Australian dweller and a tinge of sen-
timent, is always a failure —was hearkened to on
this occasion with less patience than usual. Last
year George Coppin was honored as one of the
surviving founders. This time his name was
mentioned kindly, and the eulogy made many a
friendly eye in the gathering moist. Sad memo-
ries cling with the names to all the neat cottages
of the Old Colonists, for most of the philanthropic
men who built the homes have passed off the roll-
call. Mr. Robert Laidlaw—one of the few survi-
vors—approaches the century mile-stone, but,
mercifully, he’s still going strong, and can talk
early Victoria with all a Scotchman’s caustic wit
and quiet sentiment.
Miss Masson did better at her concert of
strum than several of her small, starring prede-
cessors. Miss Masson has physique and tempera-
ment. She has dexterity and fine feeling. More
than most of those painstaking, earnest students
of the conservatorium is she able to convey that
hurry of spirits that has been the creative force of
the composition. Her art, immature though it
still is, suggests proper appreciation and compre-
hension of what lies in the depths of the musical.
gems she selects. Even with flaws in execution,
this subtle understanding of musical meaning
renders Miss Masson’s performance enjoyable.
Miss Masson, by the way, is not the daughter of
Professor Masson. Tryphena withdraws the
accusation without offering any special apologies.
The pianiste looks clever enough to be descended
from a long line of professors.
The long procession of girl-strummers is scarcely
broken to admit a boy pianist. In this capital
the musical youth is turning to cricket. The
surplus girl-strummer affrights him. The myriads
of she-students are really alarming, and only
matrimony can save them from being as another
plague of Egypt. And matrimony isn’t nearly
frequent enough.
Two aged moneymooners have just steamed off
for the land of Dollars. The ’groom, who sus-
tained the leading rble once before, is almost an
octogenarian. The bride is a kittenish young
thing who owns up to 50. She also played the
star part previously—in the early ages. The man
has great wealth, and a terrible number of pro-
geny to account to for his frivolity. But he
determined to marry first and account after, and
went off on his moneymoon chuckling joyously.
It must be very aggravating to see an octo-
genarian grand-dad taking a new partner at a
time of life when he might reasonably expect to
be dead. It upsets all one’s reckonings, and little
Tom and Sue, who prayed nightly for the old
man’s continued health and prosperity, have to
be told bluntly that their prayers have had the
worst possible result.
One dentist who does a roaring trade in stumps
puts down the rush of patients to his success at
reading character. “It isn’t that 1 deal with
molars more cleverly or adroitly than any of the
other fellows,” he says naively, “but I have
manner, and the public account that character,
and character commands success.”
Talking of dentists ! There is a movement on
foot (or on tooth, say) to brighten up the patients-
elect by a cheerful environment. The Yanks have
introduced the idea hereabouts of bright waiting-
rooms, where the eye of the most terrified client
is gladdened by a gay scheme of color and joyful
furniture and happy effects. There are cafd
chantant scenes in colored prints and exuberant
frames on the walls, and, all round, that atmosphere
of cheer and gay, worldly warmth that counts for
so much to the impressionable and susceptible
mind. Heretofore, the waiting-room was a kind
of padded cell with electrocution-looking chairs
and chained magazines. There the intending
sufferers gaped at one another in gloomy antici-
pation of the worst, and the silence of the wretched
den smothered the optimism of the boldest. Three
of the tooth fraternity prosper on the new idea in
this great intellectual centre. Patients-elect say—
“ Come along to Dr. Molar with me. It’s such a
frisky waiting-room.” And the crowd comes.
Presently they’ll turn on a ’phone melody or a
brass band in the operating-den, and then one will
need no gas or chloroform.
A very Apollo of the boards has been snatched
up and married by a motherly sort of girl, to
the considerable annoyance of all that jjromis-
ing person’s relatives. His youth is regarded as
no vindication of the offence. One thing a
mother never forgives is her boy getting mated to
an elder. A young fool of a girl comes in for
every pardon, but an old one brings down hot
wrath on her responsible head.
A great disappointment to the admiring chums
of Miss Taliaferro and Miss Hadsell of the
Collier Co. on the last night was that no flowers
were permitted to be handed up over the foot-
lights. W. Collier duly took his triple recalls,
which were enthusiastic owing to them being the
last of the season and tinctured by 4th of July
sentiment. But the presentation posies for-
warded by the Baltimore captain, officers and
crew to Miss Taliaferro and others did not appear.
The donors sat waiting till the ushers of the
theatre grew busy with the furniture’s night-
caps. Then they withdrew and, on inquiry,
learnt that Manager Collier, {recording to
a largely-practised rule in Uncle Sam’s
land, forbids the wired forget-me-not being served
up over the footlights. Back in the dressing-
rooms the array of flowers (despite a slack season)
was extra fine, but the little ingenue looked upon
them with a tear and a plaintive smile in her eye.
“ To think, Honey, that no one saw all my lovely
flowers ! ” It was cause for a tear. No woman
quite enjoys being petted in secret when she might
have two thousand witnesses of the flattering
attentions.
Commander Stor.e, of the Baltimore, has an
attractive wife, who is at present sporting glad
frocks and a thatch in which some pale gold
lingers. There’s one small chick —Virginia—who
skates cleverly and talks originally.
The other day a cleric who had given the same
type-writing Miss numerous orders for typing his
sermons and lecture-papers, entrusted her with a
church report which had to be put before a council
of holy brethren. Her work was always so perfect
that his holy nibs seldom set the pencil of cor-
rection on its track. But by some mischance, this
time she so misspelt certain words that their new
form read for much wickedness, and the council
was shocked out of its seven senses. The shepherd
went to the typist and reproached her, but her
eyes were full of innocence, and the shepherd does
not know what to think. But he has given his
typing work to a male member of the congrega-
tion.
The Holy City furnishes a remarkable instance
of a fair citizen invested with the police power of
arrest. Mrs. Ennis, mate of the’Varsity musical
prof., was accorded this privilege on account of
her exertions on behalf of sick and suffering
doggies and persecuted cats. She established the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
(four-footed, of course) and became its president.
So vigilantly did she carry out her cat and dog
duties that the Government gave her a handcuff
commission, and probably a chatelaine baton, with
which to arrest dog-beaters and cat-abusers, and
march the offenders off to the watch-house. A
week or two ago Mrs. Ennis, of the Holy City
Force, sailed off to Europe, and when she sees
how the horses are treated in Naples and else-
where she’ll be sighing for her Australian baton.
The Grand National meeting saw a large
sombre midwinter rally, the two palm enclosures
being occupied by the big and little Exes, with a
string of aides apiece. The Baltimore officers
were in demand on the Terrace, where the pride
and flower of society gathered. A wonderful
male promenader wore a girlish, winged coat of
chocolate and pretty-coloured check, and a 17th
of March boxer, He was pointed out as a touring
lordling incog. Incog, doesn’t describe his state.
It’s much more deplorable.
The prevailing tones among the smartest of the
Midwinter flock at Flemington ran to ultra-
marine blue and violet. When in doubt the
she-sport added a Lenten top-piece to her up-
holsterings. Mrs. Jack Fisken was a glad sur-
prise in the blue above-mentioned —cut short to
the ankles, and having a repetition of the blue
for her summit (the dame is one of the tallest of
Tooralc Graces). Mrs. H. M. Cox was one of the
fashionable resurrections in a champagne-colored
rig, and a hat in magenta tones. Mrs. J. C.
Williamson was a chic promenader in a tailor-
built garb of deep terra-cotta —a French toque
being en suite. Handsome furs were a dressy
addition. Mrs. H. Payne was in a marvellous
turn-out, with an architectural fresco that called
for attention.
The midwinter season of nag has brought the
squattocracy city-wards in great droves. Mrs.
Andrew Chirnside, Mrs. H. M. Cox, Mrs. Gordon
Lyon, Mrs. B. Bell are a quartet of racy dames
circulating in chiffons worth a covetous look. The
arrival of these dowered elans is always the signal
for a Toorak whirligig or two.
Saturday’s sportive clans packed Her Majesty’s
from floor to ceiling. Mr. Sadleir, the prosperous
financier, held one box with a family contingent.
Manager Williamson and his wife held the other.
Mrs. Williamson’s Harbor chiffons were the finest
on show —a big thing considering that a race
crowd and dressy first-nighters showed up well in
circle and stalls. These harbor chiffons ran to
mignonette-green and ficelle, the glace foundation
being green and the over-dress a arrange-
ment of Brussels’ lace and ivory glace, Green
petals were scattered among the Vandvcked frills
that flared all the way round the skirt. Emeralds
were the gems she wore.
Mr. Charles Waldron—the Squaw Man—has
captured the feminine fancy of this city. He
has, in the eyes of local Graces, six feet of manly
beauty, and a voice full of sympathy. The Satur-
day audience that wore petticoats revelled, after a
long theatrical immunity from such a joy, and is
undecided whether Charles is a beautified Brown-
low or an Americanised Ryley. Certainly he is
long and graceful.
There’s just a slight look of Tittell-Brune about
the new she-star, but her figure is a thing of much
greater beauty. It’s a great figure. Otherwise
the American is bronze-haired and her clothes are
of fine cut. Also she has a poise of head to
threaten and command. Ola Jane Humphrey is
a slightly contradictory name—the smug Jane
gets up and smites the elegant Ola with a dish-
cloth. But that may have good advertising
significance.
Another Melbourne gadder sends an impression
of cafe life in the Big Smoke. “ I had my first
peep at a Savoy crush the other night. It was
ripping. The scene was one blurr of lights, smart
frocks of womankind, and dandies of every station
in life and every country. When the brilliancy
ceased to smart my eyes, I discovered lots of Aus-
tralians. Miss Vera Clarke supped with her
brother and a pair of tourists whose travel-creases
hadn’t been all pressed out of their chiffons. The
Wilders sat with a clique at another table. (You
remember the dame who used to stay at the Aus-
tralia and wear a diamond snake wriggling in a
blaze over her decollete edge?) The Mathesons
(the Senator and his family) made a lot of fun in
the near neighborhood. The McEvoys, of stage
and squatting fame, were just visible in one of the
gorgeous vistas of the dining-tables. But there’s
no quiet to be had. A private conversation is out
of the question ; you are overheard all the time,
and find the near-table folks’ remarks crossing the
current of yours. The London cafe at supper-
time is an immense study. Dukes and dress-
makers are neighbors. The Christians and the
Pagans get all mixed. The gay and the good
exchange a stare, and the whole thing is a capital
spectacle.”
An Adelaide correspondent writes
Adelaide has the golf fever pretty severely these days*
and every other damsel you meet is carrying a bag of
mysterious implements. The new golf links, opened at
Seaton t’other day, boast a snugly quaint little club
house. The Le Hunte Excellency occasionally sneaks in
a private golf hour or two when officialdom isn’t looking.
He’s an athletic person, with a good stroke, and seems
somewhat wasted as a Governor.
The S.A. Le Huntes are not very badly addicted to
the entertainment habit and Tortoise Town, when it
hears of the frequent vice-regal carousals of Melbourne
and Sydney, gets up on its hind legs and waves itself
about with violent indignation. This is the fourth year
of Le Hunte rule in “ South Oss,” and the following is an
approximate list of the giddy festivities provided within
the sacred precincts of the vice-regal residence during
that time :
One garden party.
Two small dances.
One kids’ party.
One new private sec. (straight from England).
Various small dinners to Justices, politicians, and
other official fry.
This list has just been capped by a hen convention of
fifty strong, at which a string band was provided for the
amusement of the guests. Such extravagance ought to
be put down.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
A little light in the dark corners of preju-
dice shows that progressive measures which
benefit everyone must benefit those who howl
against them. And a discreet measure of D.C.L.,
the Whisky of the Wise, not only brings wisdom
to the dullest human mind, but it lightens all the
weary burdens of life. A nip of D.C.L. Whisky
is essentially a progressive measure.*
When wintry tears my eyes o’erflow
In painful sympathy with my nose,
I rest my heavy head and sigh
For some relief or I shall die.
The hacking cough, the hard-drawn breath,
Can only mean approaching death,
But no, the remedy, Life’s Renewer,
Is found in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and 00. Ltd. report: —In-
terest during the past week has been mainly centred in
the stud sheep sales, and no business of any note has
transpired in wool circles. Sales are now proceeding at
Brisbane, where a full attendance of buyers is expected.
There is a slightly easier tone anticipated consequent on
Antwerp sales opening at a decline of 5 per cent, last
week, but we do not fear any serious weakening of values.
The fourth series of London sales opens on Tuesday next
(10th), and reports of same will be awaited with interest
by the trade, as being the last outside sales of note prior
to the marketing o f our new season’s clip.*
The British Imperial Goldsmiths Go., jewellery
firm Sydney, has issued an interesting catalogue which
mingles with a description of the co.’s wares some very
valuable information regarding watches and jewellery in
general. Any kind of information, even if it is informa-
tion about the number of buttons on an old bob-tailed
coat of mail, is liable to prove useful and valuable when
least expected (The Bulletin vaguely recollects some-
thing about a man who, through a complication of
circumstances, was saved from drowning through
knowing the names of the Kings of Israel), therefore
everybody—even naked aboriginals—should read this
catalogue and incidentally buy a watch or some jewellery.*
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
The hygienic value of Odol is vouched for by
the leading doctors and dentists ; it is used in the highest
circles, from those of royalty downwards, and is doing a
great service in improving the health of the teeth and
mouth among all classes. It is specially prescribed in
many large institutions, and enjoys a world-wide
popularity.*


ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
fs
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason*
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS/
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at'Melbourne.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sc.atica, Neu algia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
51- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the bole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PtS
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bougtit. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33j- per Halj-dozen, free by post throuyhout
A astrolill.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application..
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
u
it
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
mm?, BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281
(ovv. I!(inter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Irvine has explained his position at last.
He is a strong Freetrader who holds that “the pre-
sent policy for Australia is reasonable Protection
to Australian industries.” In other words, he is
a tried iceberg.
TROUBLE AT HOME.
VOICE (from behind the curtain): “Very well,
George; remember, I shall vote for Mr.
Watson! ”
The public boast of Kerr, Lesina, and Co.,
that after Queensland State elections “ there will
be no Kidston party,” will want a lot of backing
up. There might—do not shriek the fact in Gath
—be no Lesina party.
The endless, needless Joey Carruthers
invites members of the Australian Parliament to
begin another series of trips to inspect Federal
capital sites. It begins to seem that the best site
for a capital will be Joe’s tombstone—provided
Joe is buried in a suitable place.
The question is frequently asked : “How
does Protection benefit the farmer?” If the
farmer will cast his eye over a case that of late
was bitterly fought out in N.S.W. Supreme Court
re 100 tons of onions imported from Japan he will
find part, at least, of the answer. The miserable
Is. per cwt. on onions isn’t Protection.
Politics are wee little potatoes in Tas-
mania. Premier Evans lately journeyed to Port
Cygnet to make a great speech, in which he was
to reveal the Government’s policy, but, finding
that his oration would interfere with a wood-
chopping contest and a social, he came away with
his tale undelivered. No one thought of post-
poning the w’ood-chopping contest and the social.
Stipendiary Donaldson, of Sydney, dis-
covered the other day that the N.S.W. Act deal-
ing with gambling specifies a fine of £5O for a
manfoundina “betting’’-house, but only £5 for
a man found in a “ gaming ’’-house. The cause of
this discrepancy is unknown. Probably it was
just an ancient misprint, or a bit of accidental
legislation. Legislation is very accidental at
times.
From the Province (Canada) :
In view of the fact that there is practically no agricul-
tural machinery, vehicles, milling and mining machinery,
automobiles, and other manufactured articles at present
made either in Australia or Maoriland, the Canadian
Government intends to capture the market for articles of
these classes if possible. Heretofore American manufac-
turers have reaped a harvest in supplying that trade, but
with the new tariff it is expected that Canada will be able
to control the market.
With that object in view a special freight arrange-
ment has been made with a shipping co. But an
Australian tariff—a real tariff—maj have some-
thing to say on that point.
A person named Innes Noad is the latest
contributor to the humors of anti-Sosh. At
Randwick (N.S.W.) he told an audience that
Socialism would eventually lead to chaos and
disorder. Then he said it was only a turnip with
a candle in it. The next anti-Sosh humorist will
probably say Socialism is a pickle-bottle with a
frog in it, that will lead to volcanoes and
epidemics.
Some strange and hairy problems take up
the time of N.S.W. Assembly. For instance,
Law, of Balmain, wants badly to know six
thrilling things about tramcars, including the
number of trams that go down George-street
(Sydney) every day for his suburb, the number
that come back, and what is the distance from
Market-street, Sydney, to a certain street corner
in Balmain.
There is nothing to report in Federal
politics except that the Anti-Trust Bill is still
making slow progress. That velocity which was
so much required, if a decent show of work was to
be made this session, hasn’t arrived yet. There
is much lengthy conversation from the same old
brigade of screamers, and some nights the House
finishes by putting down its foot again in the
same hole that it picked it up out of.
Kidston, reckoning up the perversity of
the Chamber of Fossils in Bananaland, has de-
cided not to attempt to pass an arbitration
measure, but has promised to try a Wages Board.
But better than such a half loaf policy would
be to definitely abolish the Upper House. It is a
nominee House, and it is only a question of ap-
pointing sufficient reliable new nominees to pass
the Abolition Bill. That seems to be the first de-
mocratic duty in Queensland.
Premier Price (S.A.) still declines to
apologise for his recent references to the “ dirty
birds” of the Conservative party, and signifi-
cantly remarks that if required to do so lie can
furnish names and proofs. That, however, is the
very last thing that the persons indicated desire
him to do. “I have not been a member of the
Council of the State Children’s Department all
these years without learning something,” is the
significant statement of the angry Price.
Irvine has announced his platform as a
Federal candidate. He favors Protection and
Socialism for the farmer, but finds a point of
difference: —
But if you mean by Socialism that confiscatory Com-
munism which is the present policy of the Labor party, I
am absolutely opposed to it root and branch.
But the Labor party’s policy is not “confisca-
tory Communism.” so the reason for Irvine’s
appearance as a candidate boils down to simply—
a lie.
Squatter Robertson, a fine crusted Western
District (Vic.) Anti-Socialist, listed on the notice-
paper of his State Parliament, on its first day of
meeting, a motion that the State should assist to
establish municipal sheep dips, whereby the Anti-
Socialistic sheep may be washed as white as snow
by a Socialistic municipal officer. There seem to
be so many Socialists crying out for the sup-
pression of Socialism that it is difficult for the
casual follower of Australian politics to tell exactly
where he is just now.
“ Hexham ” : You say (Answers to
Correspondents, 31/5/’O6) that “ the language
spoken here is English, and to call it ‘Australian’
would be nonsense.” The Argentine Govern-
ment and (I believe) those of most other South
American republics refuse to call the tongue
spoken there Spanish or Castilian. “Elidioma
nacional” (the national language) it is always
termed officially. In the country districts of the
Republiea Oriental del Uruguay “Oriental” is
the name mostly given to the language, and in the
adjoining provinces of Brazil, where Portuguese
is spoken, I never heard anybody but foreigners
call it so. “Brasilero” is the native name.
During the Crimean war, by the way, Czar
Nicholas 1., who was very friendly with the U.S. A.,
issued a proclamation advising his subjects to
study “ the American language.”
FLOP!
Mr. Carruthers Gould, of the Westminster Gazette,
has been knighted. — News Item.
JOEY (reading the Birthday honors): “Ah, let
me have a squint over these. First, the
K.C.M.G.’s. . . Wot's this? . . . O, hooray!
Hooray! . . . Mr. Carruthers ” (turns
the page) “GOULD!"
When G. H. Reid told a Queensland
audience that the idea of the State running ships
was madness, he possibly did not know that he
was addressing a community that once almost
tried the experiment. In the old days the charges
of the coastal shipping monopoly were so exor-
bitant that Premier Charles Lilley ordered vessels
to form a State-owned coastal fleet, and but for
the sudden climb-down of the shipping people
the State fleet would have started. The coastal
companies of those days evidently reckoned that
it was going to be a success, or they wouldn’t
have surrendered in such haste.
CHUCK IT IN, ALFRED!
Is he saving tire apple of discord for the election? Jon Cook.
N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges make rules
to check, as far as possible, the annual output of
barristers and solicitors. The exams, are made
increasingly stiff, and the number of articled clerks
(apprentices) to each solicitor is reduced. The
idea, of course, is to give the present practitioners
a chance of keeping the law business to them-
selves. When, however, skilled mechanics ask
for a limit to the number of apprentices, the anti-
Socialist crowd talks and writes of the selfishness
of Labor and the tyranny of the unions.
Prime Minister Deakin states that some of
the conditions of the new mail contract, which is
to start in 1908, will be that the steamships will
be registered in Australia, fly the Australian flag,
and be docked, painted and repaired whenever
possible in Australia. These conditions, which
should have been insisted on long ago, are now
possible of fulfilment as a result of Federation.
It is to Australia’s interest to do all it can to
make the new line a success until the advent of
the Australian-owned steamship service.
Reid stated, at Gympie (Q.), that by three
systems of land taxation —municipal, State and
Federal—the Socialists were trying to destroy
the value of land, as a preliminary to pretending
to pay for it when they took it over. Well, Reid
ought to know the effect of a tax on land values.
Writer remembers a bit of land out West, the
value of which, though assessed at about £7 per
acre when the State wanted some of it for a
recreation reserve, sank to something like £1 per
acre when Reid’s land-tax assessors came round.
The action of the London Cobden Club in
sending out advice to this country, accompanied by
samples of its own fiscal superstition, is quite in
accord with English notions of the need “the
colonies” have for England’s superior wisdom.
When the Australian States began to build tariffs,
many years ago, the London Chamber of Com-
merce hurriedly interfered, and sent out a liberal
offer to the N.S.W. Government of the day.
What it suggested was that it—the London
Chamber of Commerce —should supply a tariff
which Australia could use till it was able to think
for itself.
Although the Adelaide Advertiser was
the pioneer of Protection in S. A., and its influence
helped the earliest political successes of Labor in
that State, the United Labor party, ignoring
Watson’s pledge, intends to run a candidate
against editor Bonython in the Barker district.
It would also oppose Kingston, if it dared. The
Advertiser was one of the few dailies in Australia
which supported the men in the great maritime
strike of 1900, before there was a Labor member
in Parliament in S.A., and it was made to suffer
for the cause. That might be remembered now
by the U.L.P.
“G. Hard ” : What is a surplus ? I want
you to give an authoritative definition just to
convince my pig-headed mate. Last year I had
a surplus of 15s. That is to say, at midnight on
December 31 I had 15s. unexpended. I devoted
it to irrigation, and spoiled my best clothes. Now,
my mate (he’s an unimaginative beast) will insist
that I didn’t have any surplus, because those
clothes were not paid for; and when I tell him
that that is a funded debt, he just sniffs (oh, he’s
a supercilious hog, he is). I think they ought to
teach high finance in the State schools, then there
wouldn’t be ignorant people like my mate. No
surplus, indeed ! What rot! Why, I got drunk
on it!
“ The Mole ” (who isn’t as blind as his
name): —
Late happenings in the Ma State Parliament closely
resemble some of old King Cole’s drammers. The
play opens with the tragic, heroic Holman hurling
charges at Carruthers. John Norton sits scowling near
the exit, with sixteen bombs up his sleeve. Cocky arises
and swears he is inn-ocent. Holman then flies to Coota-
mundra, and his foe still pursues him. He gets up
with the light of Demos and wounded dignity shining on
his drought-stricken nob, and with the air of Marat in
the bath, accuses Holman of various assorted crimes.
’Twas a splendid exhibition of endurance, and he finished
up as fresh as a Dutch baby after a three hours’ hard
bawl. There is a little comic relief from Crick, strutting
aimlessly before the footlights delivering semi-humorous
lecturettes on the glories of horse-racing, and being
called off by the stage-manager. Last act shows Holman,
with a throb in his throat, dramatically declaring that he
is as inn-ocent as George Rignold,and that he will go
forth to Cootanmndra and fight Norton with tin swords.
Banana Jessop sank back open-mouthed and speechless.
That anyone could chuck up a steady, profitable job like
that fairly winded the Banana King.
Queensland, like every other State, has
got its log-rolled railways, built during the time
of Boom and Borrow. One is the line to Cleve-
land. Last year it lost nearly £2500 on working
expenses, while the interest amounted to £9OOO.
Since its construction the loss has eaten up
£200,000. Yet a deputation asked for reduced
freights the other day. Whereupon Minister
Digby Denham struck the table with his fist, and
declared that if a private co. owned the thing it
would rip the rails up and write off the line as a
bad debt.
“Two Seas” : N.S.W. Closer Settlement
Act has a clause providing for forfeiture in case of
default in rent, but the Minister may waive for-
feiture, unconditionally or otherwise, as he thinks
fit. When there are enough closer settlers, and
they vote right, the Minister thinks fit and waives
unconditionally (just as Jenkins used to wave his
hand in Melbourne). The Act isn’t doing us any
good; it just makes good land dearer. Only
those squatters with poor runs, or the too-far-
from-railway push, or the rabbit haunted crowd,
are rushing the Government to buy. And look
at the prices they’re asking ! If we’re always in
trouble with our Crown lands at 20s. per acre,
how are we going to make a do of it at £4 to £7
per acre ?
THE ICICLE.
Mr. Irvlne has resigned his seat in the State Parliament
as his political energies are now mainly taken up by
Federal matters. —Daily Paper.
It is whispered that he has entered a warming
chamber so as to thaw in time for the Federal
elections.
Simultaneously with Premier Bent’s pro-
mise to abolish the separate representation of
public servants. Iceberg Irvine resigns from the
Yic. State Parliament. What is left now of the
cool, calm failure but a memory ? His separate
representation fad repealed ; the railway strikers
almost all back at their old posts—nothing to
mark the arrival and passing of the “ cold, strong
man” but bitter memories. Now he tries for
Federal honors, and, unless the Labor party acts
the consummate ass by playing a lone hand for
Flinders, he will pass to well-merited retirement.
Tired in the morning ? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
His mind imbued with noble thought—
For the good of all mankind —
A Chemist patiently work’d and sought
A cure for colds to find.
The ceaseless toil of an active brain
Its reward did at length ensure ;
And the Chemist gave to the world his gain—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
THE PARLIAMENTARY MIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Richard Baker, president of the Federal Senate, said
that he had remarked to one or two Senators that he
might not stand again, but he had not yet made up his
mind.
TBere’s a legion ne’er been listed, there are bards who’re
never printed,
There’s a fable of a Fat Boy who was always left behind ;
But those quaint old human errors shine like sovereigns
newly minted.
To that large, uncertain substance called the Parlia-
mentary mind.
It’s been creaking since Creation on the road to Proto
plasm—
It is often less decisive than a scarecrow on the fence,
Or a bubble never bubbled, or a metaphysic chasm
Without radius or centre and without circumference.
’Tis the shadow of lost phantoms who have left no spooky
traces,
’Tis the symbol of vague Voidness and the cave of Zero’s
cup ;
Just a howling Never-Never lacking camel and oasis,
And a drifting, futile chaos that Can Never Be Made Up.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


m
■
A Fine
Violin
£1 : II s 6
Sfce “STUDENT’S**
MODEL.
Complete witH Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
©j f Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 CEORCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Ronisch
Pianos.
Sole Agents—
Paling'’s.
If you
require a
truly art-
istic Piano
with a
noble tone
quality (&L
perfect
touch, buy
a Ronisch
Piano.
Catalogues Free.
***
Sole Agents—
Paling’s,
S3S George St.,
Sydney.
55
Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING’S.
We stock
only the
Best
Makes.
Italian and American. The
prices of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
Palingfs
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
THE OPPORTUNITY OF
A LIFETIME.*
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO.
SURPLUS STOCK.
WONDERFUL VALUE IN BOOKS,
Colonial Library Editions : Ordinary Prices, Paper Covers, 2/3 ; Cloth, 3/6.
Now offered, Paper Edition, 1 4 Post Free
Cloth Edition, 2 3 Post Free.
ABBOTT, J. M.
Plain and Veldt
An Outlander in England
Tommy Cornstalk
ATHERTON
Los Ceritos
Californians
BARR, R.
Lady Electra
A Prince of Good Fellows
Tempestuous Petticoat
The O’Ruddy
The Speculations of John
Steele
Over the Border
A Woman Intervenes
BOLorz.vo:
In Ba i ' ’ > upauy
Sealskin Cloak
Ghost Camp
Romance of Canvas Town
Plain Living
The Miner’s Right
A Colonial Reformer
Babes in the Bush
BACH ELLER
Darrell of the Blessed Isles
Dri and I
Virgilius
BROWN
A Magdalen’s Husband
The Dark Ship
BURG IN
Tuxter’s Little Maid
Land of Silence
The Shutters of Silence
A Wilful Woman
The Lady of the Manor
CHESNEY
Baptist Ring
Branded Prince
Tragedy of the Great
Emerald
The Foundered Galleon
CLEEVE
From Crown to Cross
Indiscretion of Gladys
Purple of the Orient
Free Soil
Mary Anne of Parchment
Buildings
The Real Christian
CARR ELL
Marcus and Faustina
Realisation of Justus
Moran
Paul Le Maistre
Progress of Pauline
Kessler
Houses of Ignorance
DRUMMOND, H.
The Ideal Life
Man of His Age
A Man’s Fear
DAVIS, R. H.
Ranson’s Folley
The King’s Jackal
Captain Macklin
FOWLER, E. T.
Double Thread
Place and Power
Farringdons
GALLON, TOM
Aunt Phipps
In a Little House
Nobody’s Baby
Lady of Cameo
Charity Ghost
Boden’s Boy
Rickerby’s Folly
The Dead Ingleby
The Second Dandy Chater
GREEN, A. K.
One of my Sons
A Difficult Problem
Circular Study
Agatha Webb
HILL, H.
By a Hair’s Breadth
Sentence of Court
The Duke Decides
Spectre Gold
The Plunder Ship
Guilty Gold
Shadow of the Bear
HYNE, C.
Paradise Coal Boat
Thompson’s Progress
Further Adventures of
Capt. Kettle
Four Red Night Caps
Filibusters
McTodd
Captain Kettle
Horrock’s Purser
KIPLING
Five Nations
Traffics and Discoveries
From Sea to Sea (2 vols.)
Kim
MILFORD
War and Arcadia
Haviland’s Chum
Dorien of Cranston
Triumphs of Hilary Blan-
The Word of the Sor-
ceress
The Red Derelict
Renshaw Fanning’s Quest
MOORE, F.
A Damsel or Two
Jessamy Bride
According to Plato
Shipmates in Sunshine
MACLAREN, I.
His Majesty, Baby
Dwellers in the Mist
Beside the Bonnie Briar
Bush
Days of Auld Lang Syne
PEMBERTON, MAX
Dr. Xavier
Sea Wolves
The Phantom Army
Beatrice of Venice
Feo
LE QUEUX
Tickencote Treasure
As We Forgive Them
Seven Secrets
Whosoever Findeth a Wife
Secrets of the Foreign
Office
Stolen Souls
ROBERTS, M.
The Way of a Man
Bianca’s Caprice
Rachel Marr
Lady Penelope
Lord Linlithgow
A Tramp’s Notebook
RITA
Souls
The Jester
The Masqueraders
Quee- Lady Judas
The Silent Woman
SARGENT, A.
Antheas Way
Under Suspicion
Cynthia’s Ideal
Accused and Accuser
Progress of Rachel
Mystery of the Moat
Blake of Oriel
STOCKTON
John Gather’s Garden
Captain’s Toll Gate
The Hundredth Man
The Girl at Cobhurst
Kate Bonnett
WELLS, H. G.
The First Man in the
Moon
When the Sleeper Wakes
Love and Mr. Lewisham
Twelve Stories
Mankind in the Making
Tales of Time and Space
A Modern Utopia
Sea Lady
WHISHA W
Lovers at Fault
A Fool with Women
A Splendid Imposter
Countess Ida
Many Ways of Love
ZOLA
Fortunes of Rougons
Abbe Mouret’s Transgres-
sions
The Monomaniac
A Love Episode
SUNDRIES
Adventures of De Rouge-,
mont
David Lyall’s Love Story,
Author of the Land
of the Leal
The Life and Adventures
of Geo. Augustus Sala,
by Himself
An English Woman’s Love
Letters
Thousands
of Others.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO.
476 George St.
Sydney.
Patent Tuiencent
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
JO
60 Candle Power
for Less than
i One Farthing per
Hour with Ordi-
nary Kerosene.
s®
STAND LAMPS
Complete
from . .
*lB/6 each.
ALSO,
Bracket 4« Hanging [amps
BURNER
Complete
12/6
Will Fit
Existing Fonts.
df
Welsbach
Incandescent
Acetylene
Gas Burners
Brilliant Light
of 100 Candle
Power*
5/-
Complete
By using these
Incandescent
Burners, con-
sumption of
Acetylene Gas
will be reduced
by half and your
light doubled.
Acetylene Gas
Fittings and
Lamps.
itfi
.
does your local storekeeper stock
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO:—
WELSBACN LI6NT CO
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne*
Perry Bros*, Brisbane*
48 Victoria St, Wellington, N.Z.
Harold Colton & Co*, Adelaide.
J. M* Ferguson, Ltd*, Perth, W.A*


Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
The Change of Life.
The Value of De. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
at Such Periods.
Time seems inopportune when he brings a
woman to the turn of life. Life is, or should
be, at its ripest and best for her, and she ap-
proaches this change with a dread of its effect
born of her knowledge of the sufferings ot
other women at this season. There is not the
slightest cause for fear or anxiety at this period
d
Mrs. E. Wilson.
(From a photo.)
if Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are taken oc-
casionally to keep the
system toned and the
stomach in proper work-
ing order. Doctors pre-
scribe them, nurses re-
commend them, and thou-
sands of women who have
successfully and cheerfully
passed through that stage
can testify to the value of
these pills. “I have
found your pills to be
highly beneficial for head-
aches,” writes Mrs. E.
Wilson, 40G Harris-street,
Ultimo, Sydney, “and
also during that critical period known as the
change of life, through whicli I have passed.
I can conscientiously recommend Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills as a genuine remedy for all
general family ailments, and also to all woman
for complaints peculiar to their sex. You are at
liberty to publish this, and I shall be pleased to
give my personal experience to anyone calling
on me.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills aid in the
digestion and assimilation of food, strengthening
every organ, making good red blood to pulsate
through the entire body. They get at the cause
of every complaint that has the stomach, liver tr
kidneys as its origin, and are a positive anc
permanent cure for biliousness, indigestion, con-
stipation, sick headache, sallow complexion, m ei
and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils a.,
blotches, and for female ailments.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LA<S€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & C 0„ 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbeweky and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It was a merciful dispensation on the part of
Providence that Manly hadn’t the bye in Sydney Metro-
politan Rugby last Saturday. As it was it fell to New-
town, and that sturdy team was met and soundly whacked
by the Auckland City Club’s team at Sydney Sports
Ground a few hours after the visitors had stepped ashore
from a Stormy sea voyage. What might have happened
had Manly drawn the bye is too horrible to think of. The
game was interesting in the first half, any way. Anything
in the shape of a record is interesting, and had writer
not seen it he would never have believed that a first
grade team could have played so shockingly as Newtown
did. The first two tries obtained by the Aucklanders
were the results of paralysis on the part of the Newtown
defence, and were quite incomprehensible. As the Maori-
landershad just recovered from seasickness there was some
reason for their ragged form, but that of Newtown
was, like the origin of matter, beyond human com-
prehension. There seems to be a tradition in this
country that any visiting footballer, especially if he
comes from Maoriland, can play off-side as much
as he darned well pleases, and the Aucklanders should
have had at least 35 penalty kicks given against them
during the first spell. In fact, two of their men were
not on-side more than ten minutes during the whole
spell. The second-half found things much more equal-
ised. The Newtown fellows didn’t play nearly so badly,
but on the other hand the Aucklanders played even
more off-side than before. They had the wind against
them, and were beginning to crack up somewhat. They
went suddenly to pieces, and Newtown scored a goal.
After that the Aucklanders got in some neat dribbling
rushes, but they came to nothing. It was a rather
tricky run by the three-quarter Smith that put the final
touches on the Aucklanders’ victory. He eluded the
whole N.S.W. team and scored a try, which was not con-
verted. By the way some of the Maoriland fellows
played, they had been taking lessons in the Australian
game, in which the approved tactics are to leave a man
hanging about the opponents’ goal line and then kick to
him. Auckland eventually won by 11 points to 5.
* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby competition is
still headed by Glebe, which, having downed St. George
on Saturday by three to nil, has now 17 competition
points. St. George defence on Saturday paralysed all
but one of the best efforts of the Red team. Glebe hurled
itself on the line again and again with much earnest-
ness, only to be dragged down every time and the ball
snatched out and kicked clear. Also, the counter-
charges made by the Saints were dangerous always, and
several of them got past everyone but the Glebe full
back, Hedley, who played a fine game. Eastern Suburbs,
who shares second place with Newtown, is 15, having
beaten Manly by eight to nil. Manly has improved
a lot, though, and now shows a combination and
capacity for sustained effort that is highly credit-
able. It looks as though the team might play the role of
the Eastern Suburbs last year. South Sydney’s victory
by 23 to 13 over North Sydney places it third, with 14
points. It is hard to say which club was guilty of the
greater ruffianism, but certain it was that the game was
more of a mill than a football match. The surprise of
the day was the sight of Balmain walloping University by
14 to six. Sydney beat Western Suburbs by 14 to 10,
after a great forward game, in which the Westerns were
playing a number of substitutes. *
In Sydney Soccer competition Pyrmont still
leads with 19 points to its credit. Rozelle holds second
place with 15, and Balmain and Glebe are together on the
third line with 14 each.
■Jr * * *
In English Association matters are just at
present very exciting, and a committee of inquiry has
dealt out fire and brimstone to the Manchester City Club.
The club itself was fined £250, and 17 members and
players were also struck with fines totalling £ll5O, the
whole of which money, after paying the expenses of the
commission of inquiry, goes to Manchester charities. But
there is no word of how much the expenses of inquiry
amounted to —which seems a pity, for that would be an
interesting bit of information.
The N.S.W. Australian footballers, who fell
foul of the North Adelaide team at Sydney Cricket
Ground, evidently felt that with Viking Rawson gazing
upon them, like the Pyramids on Napoleon’s army, it was
“up to them ”to do something. The first quarter found
the Cornstalks leading by 17 points to one. The second
quarter should have shown better results as the Welsh-
men were playing with the wind behind them, but the
Crow-eaters bucked up somewhat, and, although the
Walers ran up to 38 points, North Adelaide had also risen
to 28, which showed some of the dead horse removed from
the premises. The third quarter found North Adelaide
very vigorous. It had recovered the use of the wind, and
a series of rushes lifted the score to 68, against N.S.W. s
same old 38. Plav had been decidedly rough. In the
fourth quarter N.S.W. made a great effort, but the South
Australian combination was too strong, and the game
ended in a victory for the Holy City by 88 points to 57.
It came about in the nature of things that hardly
one of Saturday’s Melbourne football matches was worth
looking at—the stronger teams being pitted against the
weaker. Nevertheless, some 16,000 attended at East Mel-
bourne, in the hope that Geelong would provide one of its
spasmodic bursts against Essendon ; but it wasn’t Gee-
long’s day out, and, after a one-sided game, the board
showed Essendon 112 points, Geelong 41. The 12,000 who
watched ’Wood play with South saw an almost equally
disastrous rout, ’Wood winning by 98 to 38. Fitzroy
drove its lesson home on Melbourne by 91
points to 39 points, and Carlton in
like manner on “Saints” by 49 to 25. The high
scores indicated fast, open play ; but there was too
much of the exercise canter about the games to arouse
much interest. Association matches were all in the
same box, except that Williamstown, which should
have made an exhibition of “Ports,” entirely failed to
keep its end up, losing finally by 44 points to 54. The
“lilywhite amateurs” of Port Melbourne are appa-
rently practising some. West Melbourne made a holy
show of Essendon, kicking 21 goats 11 behinds to
three goals 10 behinds; but as E. hasn’t won a single
game so far this season that defeat was not to
be wondered at. An unusual accident happened to
Ricketts during the South-’Wood match. Prom a long
kick the ball landed on his forehead and bounced fully
20ft., straight up in the air. Ricketts was dazed, and
staggered offi the field, and a handy medico discovered
that the concussion had ruptured one of the blood vessels
of his eye. He was sent to the hospital, and at latest
was doing fairly well. Positions of both League and Asso-
ciation clubs remain as aforetime, except that the top-
notchers are more top-notchy than before, as it were.
» * * *
Melbourne Cricket Club is still fooling round
sparring for concessions and terms of surrender that it
knows perfectly well it can never obtain. Also, it has a
vague sort of 'hope that, considering the startling way
things turned up against the Club in the beginning of
the scrimmage, something equally unexpected and sud-
den may happen on its behalf. The most humorous part
of the business is that the Club still talks of “ accepting a
seat on the Board of Control ’’—just as though Secretary
McElhone was standing round in a waiter’s coat, begging
it to accept the chair he was carrying And just try to
imagine John McElhone’s son behaving like that! The
V.O.A. cannot give the M.C.C. a seat on the Board of
Control, even if it were foolish enough to want to do so.
That rests with the Board itself. While the club was raking
in some £12,000 per annum for yearly tickets of admis-
sion to the Cricket Ground, and was in a position
to finance the League it had hatched, it might reasonably
consider itself a power to be reckoned with. But now
its glory is dead, its power has gone, and in the gaping
void where those 12,000 sovereigns used to lie gropes a
powerless hand. N.S.W. will not have the Melbourne
Club on the Board of Control. The club is dead. It has
no more right to be represented on the Board than Essen-
don, or Paddington, or the Woolloomooloo Ragers, and
has no more chance if the Board of Control has an}' sense.
Just now it is putting in a feeble word for its allies,
accomplices, dupes, or whatever the ex-players like to
call themselves. But that is a purely domestic matter
concerning N.S.W. only. The Cornstalk Association has
just amended its constitution so that it will prac-
tically represent the whole of the cricket clubs of
the State, and under that constitution new officers
must be elected by all the clubs of N.S.W., except those
under suspension, like Paddington. That new Executive
will deal with the suspended players, or rather ex-players,
just as it thinks fit, without taking into account any
tearing up of agreements or “contracts” by the M.C.C.
* * * *
“ Austra” : Cricket as a dividend-earning busi-
ness seems to be losing ground in England. The game,
as played by both amateur and pro., who have their eyes
only on their own averages, has developed on slumberous
lines, and people want sensation. Baseball, with its com-
pletion in one afternoon, and its quick and lively play,
and possibility of sudden death to a side by the slight error
of one player, comes along. Nearly all the London pro-
fessional football clubs are starting baseball, their object
being to bring in a little revenue during the summer and
to keep their players from the fatal accumulation of fat,
also to make them (they have to be paid summer as well
as winter) earn their salt.
* * * *
There was fun on the Hunter River on Saturday,
when Ben Thoroughgood, of Stockton, Newcastle, very
decisively beat Alfred Worboys, of Wallsend, in a rowing
contest for £lOO a side. It was said to be Thoroughgood’s
first appearance in an outrigger—but that sounds like a
fairy tale. He is an enormous man, and can lie right over
Stanbury as far as length and breadth go. The public
made Worboys favorite, at 5 to 4 on. Money changed
hands freely, and the fellows who laid the odds
howled loudly for more. The umpire’s boat was
crowded, and rolled frightfully, owing to the vagaries
of the mob on board. Everybody expected to see a
capsize, and people on deck began to remove their boots
and coats in case it became necessary to swim. Worboys
never had a hope. Thoroughgood just bent down and
lifted his boat through the water with a long easy swing.
Worboys spurted and toiled and struggled, but that long
man in front went on lifting his. craft out of the
water, and streaked away in front to the finish,
where he arrived 10 lengths ahead of his exhausted rival.
Thoroughgood is now looking for other scalps to lift.
• * * *
Word comes that Towns has now hardened up
considerably, and that his stroke is a thing of beauty,
and more graceful than ever before. In fact, if he can
get good cinematograph pictures of his stroke, there s
millions in it. It is less than three weeks now to the
race, which looks like developing into a contest between
the strongest sculler on earth, and the most finished oars-
man on the planet.
• * * *
Sydney Sunday Sun is running great risks, and
if something doesn’t happen to that office soon, there is
no justice in this weary world. The misguided, although
humorous, sheet every week publishes a portrait of
distinctly criminal appearance, and sticks below it the
name of an Ancient Sculler. So far none of them have
sued the paper for libel, and the fact says volumes for the
long suffering nature of Ancient Scullers.
* * * *
Lacrosse is still moving quietly along in
Sydney. Balmain and North Sydney have developed good
systems of attack, and sustain them well. On Saturday
both these teams downed their opponents, the Tattered
Suburb accounting for Marrickville by eight to nil, while
North Sydney downed Burwood by seven to two. The
third match, Petersham v. Mosman, played in Sydney
Domain, ended in a draw.
* * * *
Cecil Healy struck some variations of climate
during his trip to Athens. Coming through the Red Sea
he was just grilled, and when he arrived at the Pirseushe
looked on a semi-circle of snow-covered hills, from which
the wind blew chilly. And the water—it was icy. It
seemed to just cut through him and clog his machinery
with a coating of ice. Going on his Australian experi-
ence he left his final effort for the last 100yds. ; but
against men like Daniels (America) and Halmay (Hungary)
those tactics failed grievously, and Cecil was beaten.
Athens is not the place it is cracked up to be ; drinks are
lOd. there.
* * * *
The N.S.W. League of Wheelmen’s inter-club
premiership, which carries with it a very fine punch
bowl, or some such drinking utensil, known as the
Mammatt Cup, again fell to the Australian Club,
the second year in succession. The drinking recep-
tacle now becomes the absolute property of the
club, and for endless generations will be used to
mix the liquor in, providing the club doesn’t goto pieces
and hypothecate all such trifles. The other competitors
—to drop the drinking bucket and return to the race—
were the Parramatta and Rook wood Clubs, which dead-
heated for second place. The Australians won easily.
The distance was 20 miles over the Homebush-Flemington
circuit. It was over the same course that the Dunlop
Company also ran its inter-club championship, an
amateur fixture. The second round was won by Marrick-
ville Club, which got over the 20 miles in 56 minutes
55 4-5 seconds. This compares very favorably with the
time of the professional Australian Club, which took 68
minutes to cover the same distance.
The hero of the San Francisco fire-fight was the
motor-car. Immediately the mayor grasped what had
happened, he gave orders, first to close the liquor saloons,
and second, to seize and confiscate every motor-car. The
majority of the motor-men were real grit, and came for-
ward voluntarily and formed a motor relief corps. A few
of the worst used their machines to transport their valu-
ables and selves from the doomed city, but a great
majority stayed and took a hand at fighting the flames.
They did Red Cross work, carrying wounded and sick
from place to place as the fire won its way through the
blocks. They conveyed firemen to strategic points, and
carried the dynamite on which the fire-fighters had to rely.
All the horses available were also impressed, but the
noble animal could not be made to face the glare and
heat. On the second day of the five during which the
fire raged the horse-service had hopelessly broken down.
Hair-raising tales are told of cars loaded with dynamite
and petrol hurtling through fire-swept streets, and when
the: explosive supplies were exhausted it was the motor-
cars that brought more from San Jose, 100 miles away,
for the ’quakes had twisted the railroads like the trail of
a serpent. The cars ran unceasingly; as the drivers
knocked up, fresh men took their places ; and during the
five days and nights of the struggle the vehicles of the
Motor Relief Corps travelled 250,000 miles on a consump-
tive of 15,000 gallons of petrol.
* * * *
1 A recent batch of Chinese gamblers were so in-
tent upon making the rear of one of their Sydney dens
police proof that when the front of the premises was
forced they were not able to retreat. They couldn’t hew
their v\ ay out of their own fortress in time ; in fact, they
had locked themselves in, so to speak, and eaten the key.
* * * *
It seems impossible for a descriptive journalist
or a novelist to write about horse-racing or betting in an
educated manner. If he “ punts ” occasionally he loses
his money without acquiring any knowledge in exchange
for it. He never quite knoyvs his subject, and he betrays
his ignorance so recklessly that the red-faced men of the
Turf may be almost excused for despising all sorts of
literature considering that they see glaring' absurdities in
the only literature that interests them. A Melbourne Age
sketch of the working of Wren’s “club” represents the
motley gathering of customers as being fascinated by the
attractions of a “bob” investment in a “double.
“ £lOO to a shilling was offered to the punter fortunate
enough to pick at once the winners of two big races. . . .
A man who looked every incjh a burglar showed me ten
tickets. He had picked t’en different doubles. He was
certain he would win, because one of his horses was a naoral
tor the first race, and for the second race he had chosen
the ten best horses. It was the Grand /Vidonal.
Such yarns are recognised as the merest ” ons *"®
by any reader who knows anything at „“* aD ?V"
the betting market. Which are the two big
races ” —the second of them being “ the Grand flat'
—that the 2000 to 1 book is dealing with? What is cne
name of the first race, and which of the Grand Nationals
is referred to-theV.R.C. Hurdle Race or the Steeple-
chase? When the Age yarn was published the number
of horses left in the two jumping events was;3b ana
and if the supposititious burglar had backed the whole
the field for either “Grand National” in conjunction
with, say, 36 horses in a previous “ big race, he would D
getting nearly double the odds the bookmaker cou d
afford to lay. The Age reporter is a brother in ignorance
to the ordinary novelist or dramatist who describes a
Derby race where the betting is 2 to 1 on the favorite,
6 to 4 on the second favorite, and even money against
two others. Probably Judkins was the writer.
* * * *
After many weeks, those Westralian punters
who were arrested on a charge of conspiring to obtain
moneys from certain bookmakers under false pretences,
have been acquitted. Isaac Noses failed absolutely to
prove that the men who backed Noreen had received any
information as to the result of the race, while it
transpired that certain bookmakers vvent on laying the
odds against various horses engaged in the Sydney race
long after those men had backed Noreen. The question
now arises : Did the bookmakers, or any of them, know
that Noreen had won, and offer great odds on certainties i
The bookmakers who raised the trouble declined to pay
over on the ground that the winner was backed after the
race was run—but so far there is no word that they them-
selves rushed round to return the money to people who
had backed losers after the race was run. So apparently
the position claimed by the Westralian Ikey Noses is
that, if you back a winner after the race is run, he need
not pay ; but if you back a loser, he sticks to the money.
This seems a very one-sided arrangement, which it is just
possible even the Westralian public will resent.
Punters couldn’t complain of any violent “re-
versals of form ” in the running of the big hurdle race at
Flemington last Saturday. The word had gone round
that The Shamrock was to show a shocking improvement
upon his performance of some weeks ago, when the jockey
was cautioned by the stewards for his seeming neglect to
make an effort to beat Realm, the winner oil that occa-
sion. Because of the popular suspicion re The Shamrock s
defeat, the value of Realm’s victory was underrated, and
he went out at 10 to I for the Grand National, whilst the
Westralian nag, with no “form” to recommend him,
started an all-round favorite at 4to 1. The race didn t
quite prove The Shamrock to be a delusion and a fraud,
for he was leading at 2J miles, and looked rather like
winning until he struck a hurdle and lost a lot of ground.
From that moment the race was left to Corinthus, Rattle-
snake, and Realm who made no mistake in their jump-
ing. Realm eventually won with ease from Rattlesnake
and Corinthus, top-weight Florin being placed fourth.
The Shamrock miijiit have been placed but for his clout-
ing a hurdle. There are no reasonable grounds for think-
ing him good enough to beat Realm on their handicap
terms. The winner, by Majestic-Lynette, is a very speedy
horse as hurdle-jumpers go, and at five years old he is a
promising youngster among the battered veterans at the
game. It is worth noting that the three last winners of
the G.N. have been five-year-olds, and that the three
placed horses on Saturday were non-“aged.” The old
performers, burdened with 11 stone on account of their
occasional victories, are not given a fair chance in the
National. Florin ran prominently all the time, but his
weight was excessive, and in a fast-run race it found him
out.
• * * *
If the ancient Error puts in an appearance next
Saturday this scribe will give him a chance to win the
G.N. Steeplechase on his bygone performance. Error is
very old, but when he was only 12 months younger he ran
third to Beilis and Isis, carrying fifteen pounds more
than his present weight. He will meet Beilis this year
on three stone better terms. Other favorably handicapped
ones are The General and Cardinal, and among the light-
weights Martinique, at nine stone, has the recommenda-
tion of having nearly proved a “good thing” for the
Maiden Steeplechase last Saturday. If his jockey had
been looking for trouble at the finish, Martinique would
probably have avoidedjdefeat.
The Sydney Pony and Galloway Association
didn’t feel at all like an ass, as indicated in the last issue,
when it heard of that compromise between Ascot and
the Associated Clubs. Instead it settled down and filed
its teeth, and by the end of the week had chewed up the
agreement between the clubs. Ascot Club acting, no
doubt, under pressure from the pony owners, promptly
broke the peace by declaring against all owners who de-
clined to sign an agreement not'to race at meetings held
in opposition to Ascot. Then the shindy resumed, and
at present is in full blast. It looks as though Ascot Club
has passed hopelessly under the control of those whom it
affects to rule, and the position is as though the greaser
was steering the ship while the captain was downstairs .
filling the lubricators. *
“Old Timer”: Realm, winner of Vic. G.N.
Hurdles, Saturday, is a syr. old gelding by Majestic (a son
of Trenton) out of Lynette, about whom the stud
book is silent. Placings were, for once in a way, a verifica-
tion of public form. Realm won recently at Williamstown,
and Rattlesnake and Corinthus (second and third) were
first and second at Moonee Valley Saturday previous.
Had Rattlesnake (N.S.W.) or Corinthus (Tas.) scored, G.N.
Hurdles would have gone to another State the third year
in succession.
* * * *
Punters bumped some unusually severe set-
backs at Moorefield, Saturday. Most favorites were
heavily supported, but only one— Friend, a very promising
filly—passed the post first, and she was subsequently dis-
qualified for interference with Good Bell, who got the
race. Friend started at 6to 4 against. Orator carried a
lot of coin in the Kogarah Stakes (which shut out good
performers), and could do no better than finish a poor
third. Saddled up for the last race (Shorts Handicap),
Orator figured as an outsider, but nevertheless won,
beating weightily-backed Protector, who ran his third
successive second, handily, and Ganara, an even money
favorite. There were three better fancied than Cairn-
gorm in the big plum (Moorefield Handicap), but Cairn-
gorm scored easily. Outsiders Sandboy and Miss Rose-
bery gathered Hurdles and Tramway Handicap respec-
tively* ,
What is the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals doing? Also, where are the police?
Last week, in Melbourne, a number of hoodlums and
alleged gentlemen, some of whom did hide their identities
under assumed names, blew to pieces 300 sparrows in an
attempt to decide which was the man most entitled to a
front seat in Sheol. Next day, another mob of callous
“sports” tookpart in the Gun Club’s £lOO match. As
these fixtures are always extensively advertised, it ought
not to be difficult for the police to ascertain the dates
when the wretched exhibitions of cruelty are to take
place and to collect sufficient evidence to make an
example of some idiot who calls himself Arundel St.
Aubyn, or something equally high-sounding, to hide his
miserable bird-slaying identity.
* * *
“Wotrot”: While laying a solid founda-
tion with a piece of grilled bullock at Michael Bivalop-
soulos’ establishment I chanced to find myself alongside a
leadin«- tipster. Said prophet was volubly explaining, in
language hardly Biblical, to a client whom he had given
only one winner for the day, how by just the skin of a
hair he had missed giving him all the others. When the
client’s chance came he produced a card on which a rival
tipster had marked five winners for the six races. In the
cold silence that resulted my fish froze.
t * * *
Four miles open handicap promoted bv the
Essendon Harriers brought 60 odd runners to the Moonee
Valley racecourse (Melb.) last Saturday. Among them
were “Olympian” Blake on scratch, R. A. Ferguson (ex-
three-mile Australasian champion) on 10 seconds, and ex-
ten-mile triple winner Stillwell on 20sec. A 2min.
50see. limit allowed the out-markers to obtain a
lead of fully 1000yds. before Blake set out on a chase
after a field running strongly, and dotted round the
course in bunches. Meanwhile Willis and Quarterman,
the leaders, streaked out in front, and held their positions
for close on three miles, when they were supplanted by
G. G. Crooke, who moved away over the last mile, even-
tually running in a winner by 30yds. from Baldie. Crooke
was handicapped off 2.20, and covered the “four” in22min.
50sec. J. R. Imrie effected a surprise by doing the
distance in faster time (21min. 44sec.) than the aforesaid
top-notchers. Blake made no perceptible decrease in the
gap till half the journey was completed, and demon-
strated that a long sea trip and a stone overweight are
huge handicaps to give away to seasoned runners, even if
only of medium calibre.
* * w *
For those who like fights of the hurricane order,
that between J. Griffin, late of Maoriland, and bandsman J.
Thompson, of Sydney, at Sydney National Sporting Club,
last week, must have been an ideal function. Griffin
came at his opponent like a gale sweeping over a large,
flat sheep-run, and he was as hard as the boulders of the
land he came from. Thompson faced the storm gallantly,
but the wild Maorilander showered his blows so fast, and
disregarded returns so utterly, that at last Thompson
just ran. Beaten to the boards again and again, hustled
and roughed, it seemed that the Sydney man must soon
succumb. But Griffin’s fighting is too frenzied to be
good. His blows land anywhere, and half the number,
placed in the right spots, would be infinitely more effec-
tive. So Thompson rallied, and stood up to him as best
he could, and drove lefts and rights through the hail that
beat upon him, and over him, and around him—and some
of them found the Maorilander’s vulnerable localities.
Only his fearful and incredible hardness saved him. He
ought to have been beaten. Thompson had landed him
on the jaw over and over again ; driven him to the
ropes and drubbed him unmercifully ; and finally, he
countered him right in the face, and, even then, the
grey, hairless, boulder-like bruiser declined to be beaten.
The end of the fight came when, after being countered in
the middle of his face, Griffin suddenly pulled himself
together, and jabbed Thompson with his left, and then
landed a vicious hook right on the bandsman’s chin.
The Sydney man fell prone, and lay, knocked right out.
Melbourne man of affairs, A. Frank Buckley,
writing as secretary of a liquor trades charity carnival to
be held on Yarra-side next September, challenged the
Victorian Alliance to a test tug-of-war—ten cold tea
topers against ten long beer sinkers. But the cold tea
men curtly declined, on the lofty ground that their
superiority was proved and admitted by all sensible
people and required no proof. That’s the worst of the
cold teaite ; he is so obviously superior that there is no
arguing with him.
* * * *
“Num”: Following the lead given by Dolly
Judkins in having the Squires-O’Brien fight blocked at
the Exhibition Building, the Essendon (Vic.) Municipal
Council is endeavoring to prevent John Wren bringing it
off at Ascot Racecourse. The utter hypocrisy of the
whole agitation against this scrap is that, before O’Brien
arrives in Australia, probably 100 glove contests will have
taken place, one-third of which may be expected, accord-
ing to the law of averages, to be twice as sanguinary as the
big contest. Opponents of the manly art overlook the fact
thatitis only the bigfights that are mentioned in thepress,
and their ignorance is such that they are unaware that
the punishment inflicted is in inverse ratio to the science
of the combatants. The most brutal and bloodthirsty
scrap I ever witnessed was between a bank clerk and a
Christian Endeavour secretary, wearing Boz. gloves.
They were members of a church gymnasium, promoted
by a decent, enthusiastic parson in a Melbourne suburb.
The lads knew about as much of the game as they knew
of the sacred rites of Lhassa, but they could hit, and did.
The gym. swam in nose-blood, and the combat terminated
only when the blinded boxers started punishing inno-
cent spectators in their fury. Meanwhile, the meek and
lowly pietist beamed upon me, and, as the lads were
led away to their showers, remarked that young men were
ever so much better engaged in a manly pastime than in
hanging round tobacconists’ talking horse. Astonished
at the liberality of his views, I asked his reverence to
accompany me to one of the Neill-Williams contests the
following week. The look on the parson’s face impelled
me to shriek for medical aid. “ Sir,” said the pastor,
“because I countenance and encourage a manly exercise
such as you saw just now, you must not think for a
moment that I approve of the displays of brutality and
degradation known as prize-fights. I regret to find that
an educated man like yourself should contemplate visit-
ing exhibitions which disgrace the name of civilisation.
It took me half-an-hour to make him listen to my explan-
ation that Stokesbury would have stopped the scrap he
permitted inside five minutes, and then he didn’t believe
me. I could see that he regarded a man who would visit
a glove contest, not authorised by the church, as one
who would not hesitate to tell any lie to serve his
purpose.”


sdf
m
V®
OF
nes
, An Agreeable
v Mild and
/
Laxative* f
Gentle
Gentle "'h
Prompt-
in Action.
is a simple, safe, and reliable, laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation—is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, Lontlon, Eng.
Amusements.
ENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
Manager .. .. Mr. E. H. COLLINS.
“ A Permanent Success must have Merit.”
EVERY EVENING at 8,
THE PREMIER COMBINATION OF VOCALISTS,
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
Each Individual Member a Thoroughly
Accomplished Artist.
COME AND SEE
THE GREAT THAUMATURGIC DISPLAY OF MOVING
PICTURES, Graphically Illustrating
'FRISCO WHILE IT BURNS.
THE GREAT CITY IN RUINS.
/ TWO UNEQUALLED ATTRACTIONS IN ONE.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales White Rose, and All Railway
Bookstalls. Doors Open at 7, Commence at 8 sharp.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Charles Frohman
presents MR. WILLIAM COLLIER in the Famous
Farcical Comedy,
ON THE QUIET.
Box Plan at Paling’s. ty PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
THE ROYAL OPERATIC
SYDNEY iiIPL SOCIETY
(Patron His Excellency Sir HARRY RAWSON, G.C.8.)
—in—
CARMEN.
Under the Direction of Mr. W. ASPREY.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT!!
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 14!!
PRICES —4s, 3s, 2s, and Is. No Booking Fees.
Box Plan at Elvy & Co.’s.
IN AID OF THE ROYAL ALEXANDRA HOSPITAL
FOR CHILDREN.
I’WO LAST CONCERTS
TOWN HALL,
JULY 13 and 14.
MARIE NARELLE,
CHESTER FENTRESS,
CONSTANCE BRANDON-USHER.
PROGRAMME ON BOTH NIGHTS WILL BE CHIEFLY
OF AN IRISH NATURE.
PRICES —os, 3s, 2s & Is. Plan Now Open at Paling’s.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
pRINCE ALFRED PARK.
(Old Exhibition Grounds).
EVERY EVENING at 8,
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 3.
BOSTOCK AND WOMBWELL’S
NOVELTY CIRCUS AND COMPLETE MENAGERIE.
THE FIRST OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALASIA
CHILDREN ESSAY COMPETITION.
Prizes will he given for the best essay entitled, “My
Visit to Bostock and Wombwell’s Menagerie.” For Par-
ticulars see handbills and daily papers.
PRICES —35., 25., and Is. Boxes to seat Four, 20s.
Sole Proprietor—E. H. BOSTOCK.
Advance Agent—ALEC VERNE.
Under the Direction of DOUGLAS BOSTOCK.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Amusements.
Lyceum hall, Sydney.
Direction ~ .. .. W. J. Macdermott.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Macdermott’s Peerless
Picture Coterie.
Presenting the First Authentic Scenes of
’FRISCO EARTHQUAKE.
PROFESSOR W. E. SCOTT, MR. ARTHUR FORD.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S
Stirring Melodramatic Story of London Life,
IN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 14, WITH FLYING COLORB.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Great Success of BRINN, Sensational Juggler and Cannon
Manipulator, in “ PASTIMES ON A BATTLESHIP.”
Entire Change of Programme by LITTLE CLIFF.
LAROLA, Funny Man, Funny Ways.
Great Success of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, sup-
ported by Mr. HARRY KENDAL, in their Original
Oomedv, “ PHOTOGRAPHED OR MARRIED.”
IRVING SAYLES, THE TWO COLLIERS,
THE SISTERS WARNER, MISS NITA LEETE, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SEYMOUR & DUPRE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
HOMER B. MASON and MARGUERITE KEELER,
Comedy Artists, in the Comedy, “ A HERO.”
NELLIE KILBURN, Soubrette Artiste.
CARLETON and SUTTON, Knockabout Comedians.
TIM HOWARD, Character Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. Jt2T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
NEW~THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in the Successful Drama,
THE ASSASSIN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including
MR. ROBERT WALDRON and MISS JANE HUMPHREY,
—in—
THE SQUAW MAN.
A Melo-Comedy Drama in Four Acts.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. EDWIN GEACH.
The LAUGHING SUCCESS of the DAY,
THE WILLOUCHBY-WARD COMEDY CO., including
MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
in the World’s Greatest Laughing Success,
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and
The Grand. MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY.
AUSTRALIAN AXEMEN’S CHOPPING CARNIVAL,
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus Building, Melbourne.
COMMENCING TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JULY 12.
£225 CONTINUING, 13th and 14th JULY,
in Prizes. PROGRAMME :
CHAMPION STANDING BLOCK CHOP, 56in. Logs.—
First, £25 and Gold Medal; second, £lO ; third, £5.
Entry 10s.
CHAMPION U.H. CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £25 and
Gold Medal; second, £lO ; third, £5. Entry 10s.
U.H. HANDICAP CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £3O;
second, £l5 ; third, £5. Entry 30s. ; no acceptance.
S.B. HANDICAP CHOP, 56in. Logs.—First, £3O ; second,
£l5 ; third, £5, Entrv 30s. ;no acceptance.
INTERSTATE TEAMS MATCH, 3ft. Logs.—First, £10;
second, £5 ; Entrv 10s.
D.H. SAWING MATCH.—First, £10; second, £5 ; Entry
10s.
PALING SPLITTING COMPETITION.—First, £10;
second, £5. Entry 10s. *
BLACKBUTT TIMBER. Entries to
O. E. ELY, Toora, South Gippsland.
E. ERSKINE SCOTT, Business Manager^
I’ll Try It."
No Moustache Producer Like This!
Not in all the Commonwealth is there a Moustache grower of
such merit as CAPILLARINE.
It Contains powerful yet harmless ingredients that cannot fail
to make the hair grow on the baldest face or head.
Been sold in Australia for 20 years. CAPILLARINE will
give you what you want—a heavy moustache.
The Result.
Price 10s. 6d.
POSTED FREE, UNDER
SEALED COYER.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 a George Street, SYDNEY.
Premier Bent upset the apple-dray of
another weary precedent last week. Prendergast,
on the Address-in-Reply, moved an amendment
in favor of a progressive land-tax and compulsory
land purchase. It ought to have been carried on
its merits, but that isn’t the point. According to
all precedent, with a vote of censure pending,
there should have been a sudden, solemn adjourn-
ment, a stoppage by Ministers of all work except
the merest routine matters, a refusal to receive
deputations “till the fate of the Ministry was
decided,” and a general lowering of the blinds
and laying down of hay in the street till the
corpse had made up its mind whether to die or
not. Bent went on with business as usual. Next
year Thomas may even abolish the Address-in-
Reply.
S. M. Herald had a sane moment in the
middle of its leading article (5/7/’O6), and aban-
doned for once the Foreign-trade doctrine of
cheap imports:—
It is impossible to over-estimate the value of such an
institution as this. Just suppose for a moment that the
Empire is at war, and that one of the results to Australia
is that ordinary imports are hung up. What would be
done then in regard to iron and steel implements which
are in common use, if there were not an establishment in
existence which could continue its work even if Arma-
geddon were being fought by land or sea? And that
suggests another consideration. What should we do for
the defence of our own shores and for the arming of our
soldiers if we were entirely bound down for supplies of
warlike implements to the mother country, thousands of
miles away.
The Bulletin has been saying that sort of thing
for a long time, and is glad to find the importing
paper beginning to understand at last that there
are better causes to fight for than the destruction
of Australian industry for the profit of Calico
Jimmyism—or Hardware Jimmyism either.
Senator Drake’s paper, The Common-
wealth, devoted to the hopeless cause of preaching
Reidism in Queensland, has stopped publication.
But it says it is only temporarily dead, and that
it might be a lot deader.
In the effort to capture the much-desired
man, respectability nowadays takes a certain
amount of risk. Thus, from Melbourne Age
matrimonial column (3/7/’O6): —
T> EXPECTABLE Girl, 27, plain, wishes houselteep
T*' steady working man or widower, unencumbered,
view above.
A plain girl of 27 who is willing to keep house
with a view to matrimony reads like a tragedy.
Some girls know that they are plain, and some
girls know that they are 27, but to know both
these things at once is to wish to be dead. And
to “ keep house ” is often much the same as being
dead.
X YOUR X
AUSTRALIAN HEAD.
IT’S shrewd enough, isn’t it, to .appreciate
the gain to you through clothing your
head with one of our Hats —if it was an im-
ported head there’d be some sense in wearing
an imported Hat, on the principle that like
attracts like. But these High-grade Austra-
lian made Hard and Soft Felt Hats of ours
really deserve your Australian support. They
are made of pure fur—very light and durable,
fast dyed, comfortable to wear, and just as
shapely as the best imported Hat. They are
better than any Hat sold in Australia at their
price—los 6d and 12s 6d, from all Dealers
throughout the Commonwealth. In buying,
be sure that our full name is stamped on the
inside leather of each Hat —without this none
is genuine.
If you cannot procure our Hats in your dis-
trict, write to us direct —we’ll see that you
are supplied.
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS PROPY., Ltd.,
X
ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA.
X
FREE TO THE
DEAF
If you suffer from Deafness, Head-noises Dis-
charging- Ears or any aural complications and
desire a complete and permanent cure, write at
once to The “ EAROSCOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W., for a FREE pamphlet, fully
describing an entirely new, self applied method
which will be sent to you gratis and post free on
mentioning this paper.
Shocking Flinders-lane amendment moved
by Foreign-trade Labor member Hughes to the
Anti-Trust, pro-Australian Bill, but cast aside
with contumely by the House of Representa-
tives :
Industry means any occupation in which persons are
engaged in the production, manufacture or distribution
in ”any State in the Commonwealth, or the introduction
from foreign countries into the Commonivealth, or from
one State to another, of anything having an exchange
value.
The Great Australian Industry of Importing !
BULLETIN Readers should
Support Australian Industry
MANUFACTURERS
or
DUNLOP TYRES,
■ OCEANIC TYR£ S-
MOTOR and MOT UR
CYCLE TYRES,
tyre sundries,
DUNLOP-KELLY
I VEHICLE TYRES.
Garden Hose,
Juction Hose,
Jteam Hose,
Brewer's Hose,
Air-Drill Hose,
Delivery Hose.
Dunlop Rubber Heels
Soles, Elc.
ENGINEERS’ GOODS-
Belting.
Sheet Rubber
packings,
Insertions,
Rashers,
Valves
Studs,
Springs,
Pump Buckets,
Etc., etc.
SPORTING GOODS-
Football Bladders j
Bat Grips,
Golf Grips,
Etc., etc.
DUNLOP RUBBER
GOODS of all J
Descriptions- "
er
"mi
&liS
U
/$
S 3
V
The DUNLOP RUBBER
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD. '
108 Flinders Street. Melbourne,
148-150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
117 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Perth.
Christchurch. N.
CO.
manufacturers
OF
DUNLOP TYRES
OCEANIC TYRES
MOTOR and MOTOR
nCLB TYRES ° R
sundries,
DUNLOP-KELLY
VEHICLE TYRES.
Garden Hose,
Auction Hose
Steam Hose
Brewer's Hose,
Air-DriiJ Hose,
Delivery Hose.
I Dunlop Rubte,. Heels I
Soles, Etc.
ENGINEERS’ GOODS-
Belting,
S/ieet Rubter
Packings,
Insertions.
Wasters,
Valves
Sluds,
Springs,
Pump Buckets
Etc., etc.
| SP ° R J'NG goods-
£££?“»
Golf Grips >
Etc., etc.
DUNLOP rubber
GOODS of all
Descriptions-
BY
PURCHASING
sd
There is a solid and enduring brand of
bottled wisdom about the S.M. Herald at times*
and there are cobwebs on the bottle, and an old
• j
spidery air about the bin. A week or so ago, the
Herald wanted to take a firm stand as to the
management of affairs in Sydney so it put on its
snpotnrdes i’ .1
!Siru n d i , d . do n to the receptacle
£ keeps its deep strenuous thoughts and its
Sledge-hammer remarks, and fished up this :
The fact is that, if Sydney does not keep moving with
the times, she will assuredly be left behind
well-b.l.„ced intellect could
i °ut. Sydney, it seems, if it goes
oacitwjira, won t go forward ; and, if it stands
still, it won’t totter toothlessly into the van of
things ; and if it retrogrades it will retrograde
backward—not forward ; and if it falls down it
wnn’t Ko ;c u 1; j • _ y „
Zi ’l • lf lie ?J?T n u proba T
. "Mill be horizontal. W ith a really energetic
paper like the Herald boosting it along, Sydney
ought to leap like a kangaroo in the front rank of
progress.
About a good Democrat, who has gone
before :
Arth ?. r J - Di »F ond .' Y ho re P re ? ented Fremantle in the
Westralian Parliament for several years, was 62 when he
passed out. A couple of months ago he was stricken
with apoplexy, just after giving evidence before the
Federal Commission on Navigation, and never afterwards
quitted his room. As chairman of a State Commission
* ppointed t 0 deal with Westralian shipping he elicited
much instructive information relating to over-sea
freights, rebates, primages, deferred payments, and con-
comitant matters, the investigation clearly showing that
firms inside a certain combine were favored at the ex-
ES? STItaSSS
writers who control the Westralian trade were dark and
devious, and that the trading community was being
pillaged—a contention to some extent borne out by the
evidence tendered. After the Commission was wound up
Diamond asserted that a chief witness had committed
perjury, and got the Federal Commission to hold a special
sitting only a couple of hours before it was due to leave
by steamer. Five minutes after the sitting closed Dia-
mond fell down in the street. Although not a Labor
member, he was strongly progressive in politics, and got
a good deal of support from workers in his constituency.


(1) The best possible mail service.
(2) Every article we sell.
WHAT WE GUARANTEE!
(3) We assume every possible risk.
(4) Best Goods at Lowest Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER VASE, pure
silver-mounted, moss
green glass, Is Cd.
Other Styles, Is 6d, 2s.
2s Bd, 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-mounted PAPER KNIFE, highly burnished
steel blade, Tin long; 2s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s Cd, 7s 6d, Ss Cd, 10s Cd, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
best rubberi lining, pure
silver shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Wishbone
LINKS, 20s.
13ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK, finest
French 8-day movement,
solid brass case, enamel
dial, richly ornamented,
£3. Other Styles, 255,
30s, 40s, to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HRE\D or CAKE SERVER, p u xe silver-plated, pearl
handle, 7iin long, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, Ss Cd, 4s Cd, os Gd, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 21s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN
CUSHION, velvet top,
5s 6d. Other Styles,
Is (jd, 2s 6d, 3s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
comprising' three pairs
Sheffield Steel Scis-
sors. 6s 6d.
Extra Quality, 11s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure silver-plated,
■crystal glass, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
GOODS OF
QUALITY.
We sell
only the
good
Quality of Goods
that we
know
will please
and give you
every satisfaction.
All Goods
sent
POST FREE
to any
address in
Australasia
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH ROLLED-GOLD FRAMES, fitted ordinary Lenses, 12s 6d.
Astigmatic Lenses, 21s. Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Our CJrystalite SPECS., 3s 6d. Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
WE ARE CONSULTING OPTICIANS.
FREE for the
ASKING.
If you cannot
visit us,
send for
our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
Its exact
reproductions
take away
all uncertainty
from
MAIL BUYING.
It’s Free.
Just ask for it.
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure
silver-plated, satin finish,
hand engraved, 4s fid.
Other Styles, 5s fid, 7s 6d.
18ct. Gold Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2.
18ct. Gold, 5 fine
Pure Opals, £2.
Larger Opals,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
PENDANT, gold-mounted,
6s 6d. Larger, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in
sizes, £2, £2 10s, - £3, £3 10s. All with
safety chain attached.
A. SAUNDERS.
18st Gold RING,
pure double-cut
diamond. £2,
Larger Diamond,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold MUFF CHAINS, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO. Necklets
to match, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
£3.
Handsome 8-day Marbellette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves T^’J™* S °lf£ Chly
ornamented case, brass mountings, fancy dial, Arst-class fcuneli:eepei t, > u s
Kept in free repair for 2 years. Other Styles, 2os, 30s, 355, 40s, 4_s 6i, 50s.
Solid Silver Sovereign
PL USE. 7s 6d, 10s.
Silver Filled, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
18ct. Gold, pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3.
5 Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds, £5.
or Sapphires,
£7 10s.
Oct Gold BRACELET,
with safety chain, £5.
3 pure double-cut diamonds,
Diamond and 2 rubies, £4 10s.
9ct. Gold PIN,
set pure White
Pearls, 12s 6d.
15et. Gold,
17s 6d..
Ladies’ Black Open-face Key-
less WATCHES, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s 255.
Solid Silver, Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
9ct. Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Ruby or Sap-
phire, 17s Cd.
Gent’s Shaving ROLL, comprising finest Silver
Steel Razor and i useful articles, 12s 6d. Extra
Quality, 15s. With two Razors, 21s, 22s 6d.
9ct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” Friend-
ship CHARM,
7s 6d.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless Watches, Jewelled,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5
years.
Crocodile Leather
Chatelaine Spec.
CASE, 10s 6d.
15s.
20s.
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout vvaTCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s Gd, ISs, 17s 6d, 20s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway.” 20s.
Specially recommended. All Guaranteed.
Oct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set pure
White Pearls, 20s.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
long white bristles, 5s 6d. Other
Styles, Cs 6d, 7s Cd, 8s 6d, 10s.
Field or Marine GLASSES, large
field of vision, 255. Other Styles,
12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, SOs.
9ct. G r ' Peroll RROOrH. set
Pearls and Ruby, 15s.
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB,
Imitation Tortoiseshell 7s 6d Other
Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6cL 5s 6(L 6s 6d.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSHES, long white bristles
His 6d. Others, 8s Cd, 12s Od,
15s, 20s,
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6. 15ct. Gold,
£5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO. Solid
Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Gold Filled,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, richly engraved,
gilt lined, 8s 6d. Other
Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
GOLD-
CHASED,
£4 4s.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LriVKRS, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent Gold-
Cased, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid Gold,
£6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranted 5. 6, and 7 years.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
A. SAUNDERS
j 809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817 \
( GEORGE-STREET, j
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


y/
i
y
:
m
c
UlM*.
1
W
mM
v>
//
/--if
CO)
=<s
K*
t
y i
iW.r'f T. V«io*v.
Worth yarnin’ about—CAPSTAN CIGARETTES.


fsd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
fs
Through misguided notions of economy, it
is stated that the majority of members of the
Australian Parliament are against the proposal to
increase the numerical strength of the High Court
Bench. The Ministry proposes to move for the
addition of two members, and as a compromise
it is expected the House will agree to one. While
he is about it, the affable Deakin should be stern
on the point of introducing a clause, assuring pen-
sions to the High Court Judges on retirement
from office after a certain term. The omission of
this protection, which is not denied to the Jus-
tices of the inferior State courts, was as serious a
blunder in the original bill as the limitation of the
number of the Judges to three. To go back, the
idea of an extra Judge is to have the benefit of
their combined judgment, and a Bench of four
members is an awkward number, which lends
its elf to deadlocks.
BEAUTIFUL
FRENCH POST CARDS
SIMPLY CHARMING. The very best hand-
painted Bromide Cards imported, including
Actresses, STUDIES (some lovely sets of 5), &c., &e.
Order now ; you’ll be delighted with them. Prices—
Single Card, sd. ; set of 6, Is. 10d., or 4s. Id. per doz.
post free. Also in stock —
Magnificent Aluminium Post Cards, the very latest,
views of Britain, 9d. each ; most unique.
Australian Stamp Series, facsimile of the stamps of
the different States and N.Z., Is. 7d. per packet,
post free.
ACTRESSES. A NEW SERIES. SPECIAL VALUE.
—Actual Photographs of Tittel Brune, Grace Palotta,
Maud Jeffries, Winifred Fraser, and also Mr. Julius
Knight. Brilliantly jewelled or spangled. Each
packet contains six Post Cards of either of the above,
ALL IN DIFFERENT POSITIONS, or we can supply
assorted packets containing one Card of each
of the Actresses and Actor named. Write for a
packet. YOU’LL LIKE THESE CARDS. Remem-
ber, they are the original photographs, taken by the
leading photographers, and admitted by the Actresses
themselves to be splendid likenesses. Price, 2s. per
packet of 6, post free, or the whole series (30 Cards,
all different), Bs. 6d. post free.
FRENCH BOOKLETS—Life-size photo production
on each page, Is. 3d., post free.
HANDY POCKET POST CARD ALBUMS—HoId
6 Post Cards. Fold up and can be addressed and sent
through the post like an envelope for Id. 2d. each.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
SAVED
FROM
df
Being saved from this curse of habit, will send
free and confidential, full information how to cure
yourself at your own home, without publicity nor
detention from j our daily routine work. Send no
monej’, it is Free and Strictly Confidential.
“ANALEPTIC” CO., 90 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
' °V4L NAV?
Gives
Permanent
Polish*
PRESERVES AND
CLEANS THE
LEATHER.
Sold by all Store-
keepers and Boot and
Shoe Shops.
One
Month's
Treatment
only 5/6
carriage
paid
sd
We will Cure Your
RHEUMATISM
or Return Your Money
We issue a legally binding Guarantee
to refund your money if
Wright's Rheumatic Remedy
THE CELEBRATED CANADIAN CURE
does not cure your
Rheumatism, Sciatica or Lumbago
The Price is only 6/6 fo* a Month's
Treatment, posted to any address.
It does not disturb your usual habits.
A Small Dose, taken only once a day
The beneficent effect is usually
immediate.
Send for Booklet and Copy of Guarantee,
we will post them without charge.
Union Manufacturing &
Agency Company
299 ELIZABETH ST., MKLBOUtNE
One
Small Dose
Once a Da;
qnfckly
Relieves
Pain
fsd
fsd
putting
IDoney
in
Their
Pockets
There are thousands of young men and women
working in stores and factories for small wages, who
have the ability to earn more money. Get out of the
rut. Tread a new path. You can do it if you’re in-
terested in the process of putting money in your
pockets. We have something distinctive and original.
Just send your name and address and tell us thepaper
in ivhich you read this advertisement, and we will
reply by return post.
The Agents & Mail Dealers Co-operative Society,
359 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Wear
The . .
Celebrated
“ RAINLEA”
m
%
i
Overcoats.
LIGHT-WEIGHT,
POROUS, NO RUBBER,
THOROUGHLY
WATERPROOF.
IN GREY and FAWN COLORB,
551- 63/-
ONLY OBTAINABLE FROM US.
We make a Speciality of
3 GUINEA
SUITS
TO ORDER—IN A VARIETY OF
PATTERNS. SEND FOR SAMPLES.
BUCKLEY & NUNN
LIMITED,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
A Pint of Hot Water in Five Minutes.
The Famous “Favourite” Gas-Spirit Stove
A Wonderful Stove for 3/6 only. Very Economical.
<L
ft
Jk
WE have in stock the most ingenious and
simplest Gas-Spirit Stove on the market,
and which no home should be without.
In principle and design they are not unlike other
types of Stoves, but the “ Favourite ” is far
superior for the following reasons :—(1) It is very
much simpler to handle. (2) That there is
absolutely nothing to get out of order. (3) That
it requires practically no attention. (4) That the
heat of the Burner 0 creates its own
gas, whereas in other makes the air has to
be pumped into it, thus making those
brands liable to explode, and exceedingly
dangerous to handle, besides being very liable to
get out of order. There is absolutely no danger
whatsoever in the “ FAVOURITE ” Gas-Spirit
Stove ; it is remarkably simple to operate ; a
child can manipulate it just as well as the most
experienced. It is filled with Methylated Spirits
about once a month or less, and to use it all you
require to do is simply to press the Injector A
two or three times (which pumps sufficient of the Methylated Spirit into the channel B to give the Stove a start)
and apply a match to the Spirit. That’s all ! Simple enough, isn’t it ? The heat of the Burner O causes the
production of gases, which continues until the beam-shaped flames are blown out just like a candle. You can go
away and leave your pot of water on, as it is impossible for the Stove to explode. No smoke, no smell, and
causes no soot. No wicks or parts to replace from time to time. What a joy it is to have one of these Stoves
when the housewife comes home tired after shopping, too weary to light a fire ; or what a boon it is when visitors
call to be able just to strike a match and the afternoon tea or supper is ready in no time. It is a household
necessity, and, being so exceedingly simple and always ready for immediate use, is very
handy for gentlemen who shave; simply apply a match when you wake up, and your hot
water is ready for use in two or three minutes. For the bedroom it is a positive convenience, and is absolutely
the only Stove that can be relied upon as being safe and entirely free from danger. PRICE, ONLY 3/6.
Postage extra, N.S.W., 6d. other States and N.Z. Bd.
A, J. SMITH and CO. (Dept. B), 6 Moore Street, Sydney .
w,
S-52
<
S',
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27th OCTOBER, 1906.
First Prize, value £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63-
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Cowdery, Waterloo,
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1906. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
100 Fine CIQARS for 17/6
Absolutely the finest cigar in Australia at the price. Has
a rich flavor that makes you want more—a flavor that you
won’t find in any other cigar at or near the price.
K. AND B. KING OF ALL HIGH LIFE CIGARS.
SEND 17/6 AND ADD 9d FOR POSTAGE, and we
will send you the box post free. In mild, medium and
full strength.
Sample Box of Four Post Free Ij-
agentsj_crai(j & AITKEN, 65 4 George St*, Sydney,
fs
At
!*
BATH HEATERS
Send for Catalogue. “*|
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt st., Sydney
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
&
EUCRASY can be given in Tea, Coffee, or Food, thus
secretly curing the patient without his knowledge.
MRS. J. HATTON, who cured her husband with Eucrasy, writes us that she has
also cured a near and dear relative, and malses a most earnest appeal to all women
to save the drunkard. Book of References and Testimonials from hundreds who
have been cured posted free, sealed.
Established 1894. Registered by the Government of N.S.W.
62
Address: THE EUCRASY CO.,
HUNTER ST,
SYDNEY.
The delegates from the German trades’
unions who recently investigated on the spot
industrial conditions in England, report that
wages are now higher in Protectionist Germany
than in Freetrade England, and that, in nearly
every way, the German workman is the better off.
The report looks a troublesome thing for Free-
traders to explain away, but Sydney Telegraph
gets over the difficulty by saying in effect that the
delegates are liars. Thus is political controversy
made easy.
Says Joe Cook, raving vainly against the
Anti Trust Bill in the House of Representatives :
We seem to be encircling the whole of our social life
with law, with the processes of law, with the penalties of
law. I am sure I don’t know where it is going to end.
These laws threaten to govern and control the action of
every section of the community.
Anarchist Joe! He longs for the days when
hairy men lived by themselves in caves, and went
out and struck one another fiercely with hard,
jagged stones. In those glorious times there was
no law to stop a furry troglodyte from eating
another one whenever he felt hungry.
The unblest Yic. Police Commission,
which had its labors suddenly cut short by
Premier Bent, is now said to be considering its
report. The Commission distinguished itself, in
the period during which police officers came
before it to wrangle over the reasons why Con-
stable Miggs was refused his stripe while Con-
stable Biggs wasn’t, and why Senior-Constable
Wiggs got Od. a day more than Senior-Constable
Wiggins, by being invariably bluffed away from
information regarding scandals that were causing
every man in the street to whoop red-hot
libel. Pretty little rags of dirty linen—collars
and torn handkerchiefs and the like —were
industriously scrubbed, but whenever a square
mile of murky sheeting or tablecloth was
brought into court it was hustled out again
on the instant. The doubtful relations
of members of the police (high and low) with the
Collingwood tote-owner; the peculiar incidents
that had happened in the obtaining of evidence
on some sensational criminal charges—these and
other things were sniffed at by the Commis-
sioners, but somebody was always at hand to turn
their attention the other way. The members of
the Commission complain that Bent, by suddenly
refusing any more payment of expenses, prevented
them from making the gruesome discoveries that
the public expected. But Bent replies that he
gave them lots of time and money to be gruesome
with, and that their attempts to “ grue ” weren’t
worth mentioning.
If your storekeeper cannot supply “ Argus ”
Sauce, send us a post-card, and we will see that
you are supplied. Bloggs Bros., Melbourne.
+
A recent cablegram from the Cold Country
announces that the obsolete warships, Active,
Phoebe, Tauranga and Katoomba, which have
been stationed in Australian waters, will be sold
by public auction. The Admiralty regards Aus-
tralia as the portal to the knacker’s yard. After
a ship has been here it is knocked on the head and
given to the dogs.
Written Specially by “Ralph the Rover.”
Once more I grasp the caustic pen
To picture to the minds of men
A figure, neither gaunt nor coarse,
And introduce Miss “ Argus ” Sauce,
With saucy lips for Saint or Sinner,
A welcome guest at every dinner.
To City man on Hades’ brink,
Who cannot spare the time to think ;
To struggling Cocky in the scrub,
This “ Argus ” Sauce improves your grub ;
To all who live on beef and damper,
A bottle should be in your hamper.
Brave battler through the flies and dust,
When thoughts of tucker bring disgust ;
With language livid, black and blue,
This Sauce is just the thing for you ;
It makes the rank ramstag merino
Go down like lamb in Riverina.
VVhen further North in tropic zones,
Cold shivering ague, rattling bones,
With Barcoo rot, and Barcoo spew,
This “ Argus” Sauce will pull you through;
A bottle puts you in the saddle,
The wild-eyed brumby colt a-straddle.
To far outsider, cattle thief.
It gives a zest to stolen beef;
For often have I eaten that
At “ Lingerandie” and “ Bailgetfat,”
On Cooper’s Creek and Diamantina,
The Thompson River and Georgina.
On Western fields, where from the can
We eat our potted fellow man ;
For “ Argus ” Sauce we humbly pray,
To take the “ human ” taste away ;
Here Pharisee and good Samaritan
Are equally human-eat-arian.
Now, in conclusion, man’s a muff
To patronise imported stuff ;
He starves our Native industries
To fatten those beyond the seas,
And, though he thinks himself in clover,
He wins the curse of
“Ralph the Rover.”


1
rcoivcßs
ifrolVwo/
r.
A
IliUI
s*o ■
1
*
oc
SPECIALLY SELECTED
VUMM/id fa
XfItLBOURNE
w
TLe Grape ikol c»r\\Vilk &Wolv!e
TLeTvsto-anc -Severely [«itrm§3eclf cordite
The svMeJUckenusl iKsd in.aTK*ice
Life WTeivMdJ irdo Gold Imrnnvk
'l ofiert Wonder wTuvi Ikeunlrverj ]>vy
Oivekalf so preciov.? &slke Goods Ikey sell
PBBi/reoyne § OM
(HMWEIiT
WlffifflL/ WDME
TO M/ MSIE/TY
MMS Eimffißll.
HOCK.
CHABLLT.
CLifflET.
BURGUNDY.
PORT.
sherry.
MurcArr.
_ MADEIRA.
IMPORTED
HOCKJ 4
MOSELLES.
PORTS 4
SHERRIES.
MLADEIRAS
<5, CROWN
MALMSEY.
CHAMPAGNES
LOUVET-LADUBK/
SAXJMUR.
GOLD ~LJ ON
cqck.ta.ilj:
GRAND LIARNIER
LIOUEURS.
HIRANO NATURAL
JAPANESE
SPARKLING
MINERAL
WATER.
OFFICES <£ CELLARS
s*
MELBOURNE':
TEL.N94124-.
M-Ountophiß -rutherglen
q/ICTORIA: BiF^g


*'j jmMMk
•Y'-f- ■ ’ •' •
i .
s?
'! ‘ ifsfo
'.♦* > r /^V.
V
*&?©*: Tfffi-TMWI tv $» .••» ,*i
&
3K
rVJXf
l m T
it: 4
//•I
- '
“^•i:
MB
• '^UPf
*9B
/
SF®
mmm
.i:--'. -\
**>*
a
15: i. -> '
Ml
/5
st,X
IM< ;■;
wU»
i vv
P sr' *
*a/ .« .; ••
$&: •• V';i *' •
W 9
■' \V ’
Hi'
\ A
’• %X\ y
«*
riv
: s ■ S ■ .
:
sn
'S»
3»
* r
mi
y
_,*»«•»'*-•'* u rs*
%4?M
r\
i S&W* ?&/;
\h&. .^nmm
L&
<4 S/V
% . •’
<*
******
I
'
/
:
iSR
-
m
k-i .:. 5* .
■
• •
/
l*Si
s %
;
; '-.-
ZJorJL
)\ork
aarirv£
Queensland makes Sunny Winter.
The Tourists* Ideal Trip in Winter is to
go aboard the Mail Train at Sydney or
Melbourne, and waKe up in Sunny
Queensland.
Write to the Queensland Railway Department,
Brisbane, for full particulars.
FIRST-CLASS RETURN
SYDNEY and BRISBANE -
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON
’BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE
’BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS -
’BRISBANE and CAIRNS -
FARES.
- &e o
m lO O
. 12 0
- 14 5
- 9 15
. lO lO
- lO 17
’lncluding Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
9 0 0 0 0 0 0


m
w
m
1231.
VlB
flits' is far hat torfitrss
'V../<%s/. e
/$tS/ <£*.
y /um) vecpi/ .&t6
&/ISI&Z&&72/.
'sn
... . ,
(Herlxfirato iMml liq tfrejlnalxfnte of j|gjflene Ijutb gnnb ruxfil loitiibratmi, tmf theg are not
granfefr fora laxxflerrrerieft ilxau one gear attft are null anb rath faietfre mantra from bale of mm
Xu hen farther exammatum ar teat must be nxabc aa ta the a hut barb bextxn maintained).
df
sdf
// Director & Don.. Secretort/.
Devonshire St., Harley Street, London, W.
MedireDDirector&Jieffisfrar.
Cb{jtin, cd(, IdaM&cs MaMy u -a* -fast.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE_ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
sd
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents- JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents • HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street..
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£1,450,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
™ e Queensland national Qank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 1868.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. • • 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O, ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne. Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. -W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148— Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales l
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of Deni Z ealand *
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Bankof florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
T P Canny (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. 1 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors-Sydney: Hon. A. W. Mbf.ks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Oo.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esa.. J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
Gener aVManager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, Ad.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
limited.
Capital Fully Subscribed ...
Capital Paid up
Reserve Fund
■£4,000,000
.£1,000,000.
£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES s
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to E<rypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
fsd
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3800 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*PRINZ SICISMUaD, 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER.
♦WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
1A HIT K IK ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FUND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
f
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
13th JULY,
AFRIC, SUE VIC, PERSIC,
and RUNIC to follow.
FA RlCS—Capetown .. .. *J* ■* » “ *§| 5 J
Only One Class of Accommodation-
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Ain Heat ion.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalf/etp and, Companp, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ LIH€.
Ratal, Capet own, Pip month, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
NINEVEH
*MARATHON
SALAMIS
Noon, July 21
Noon, Aug. 21
Noon, Aug. 31
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Glass.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O
Cape Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
CE A.KTIC S.S. Co. A.. & A.. LINE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THEBE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE ran in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trams
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OP AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. VENTURA. 6200 TONS. SftlLS MONDAY, JULY 23.
For Full Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or appvy to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., managing Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
I WINTER
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
sdf
HOLIDAYS**
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Baron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies, See.
UpoiT- all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS
$
&
&
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3NT.S.-W.
H)ont de pete j).#i I. C«-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STRiET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors : F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
audited and kept.
LOANS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
Hate Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.)
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE
NEXT SAILINGS-
Aug. 6y Sept. 3) Oct. 1.
GRAND EXCURSION.
JJ6Q Including all Expenses. ,£6O
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by the Canadian Pacific
Railway to Glacier, Field, Laggan,
and Bauff. The C.P.R. has splen-
did Hotels at each of these places,
where all Expenses are included
in the fare above quoted.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. TBit
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT. General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
A'CUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
Fut the South British on guard!
™ e South British
* FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
GEO II MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Wollowra, July 13.
S.S. Gran tala, July 21.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, July 21.
S.S. Wollowra, August 4.
Best tin>t Cheapest ttout.e to <1 oltljiehta.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 0503 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
sdf
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingand passing theirluggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eui Sooth (Dales.
liSTAliLlSlllil) 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ .. ~ ~ 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,450,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ~ ~ 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,450,000 0 0
Directors: ■*'
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.0., Presidert.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Faireax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C,
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woild.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
"VTEWLY decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will he
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wil find every onnor ami convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansio" v, 2 to 5 Beacon sfield Parade
Sl'. KILDA.
’I'HE- Largest and Liesi-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thaniicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of t'ne Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Hilda Rai way Station and Cable Trains. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor Boarders, 9s. per Hay, or from
2 Guineas per Week.


THIS IS A SNAP!
D° DELAY sending for one of these excellent
Watches, in Gun Metal or Nickel Silver Cases.
Every Watch Guaranteed First-class Timekeepers.
Two years’
with every
For a pood,
Timekeeper
cannot
12/6
Guarantee
Watch.
jerviceable
this Watch
be beaten.
/
Sent Post Paid to any address in Australia on receipt
of 12/6.
THE UTILITY SUPPLY CO.
35 Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
WoR (yr/vrioM) English orli/\li/\N
Jt\A\ IL/.
GenerzU Commerc/a/SutyectsSi/gmg.
Apply: W.N. Cook MP/\
“MIRTNA STATION,” CHARTERS TOWERS.
Missing- Friends.
HERBERT MARSH, of Tuxford, Notts.,
Ultramontane, your address is sought
Reply to “LOCO CITATO,”
Mirtna .Station,. Charters. Towers, Queensland.
BUY ONE BY MAIL!
IT’S EASY TO BUY BY MAlL—quick and safe. You can depend on
getting the best instrument your money will buy if you send your
order to us. Let us send you the EDISON STAND ARD at £5.
Its music is loud, clear and absolutely natural. Its rendering of the voices
of famous singers is perfect. Your money is simply on deposit until you
say you like the Phonograph.
OTHER PRICES from 10s.
MSOH
I%onogbsc H
FILL THIS FORM IN AND POST TO US. We
will send you our Catalogue and List of Records.
Name
Address.
20,000 RECORDS to select from, at Is, Is 3d, Is 6d and Is 9d each.
OSBORN & JERDA.N, Ltd,,
“MY OPTICIANS
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
sd
fsd
r
\
■ f
“FEELS GOOD ON THE FACE
Sold by all Chemists and
Perfumers
Mailed on receipt of 1/ if
your dealer does not
supply you.
Williams’ Shaving Stick
(Trial size) mailed on
receipt of 2d. in
stamps.
You owe it to your face
to get all possible comfort, convenience and safety
in shaving. The creamy, soothing lather of Williams’
Slaving Stick guarantees these.
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO., 65 Great Russell St., London
Head Office and Factories : Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOTJLDER LINE STEAMERS.
Specially Constructed
for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
o teamer. Torts.
HORNBY GRANGE 3 750'
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5 600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6 000
ROYSTON GRANGE .. 6 830
Steamer. Tons
JSEACON GRANGE 6 300
TtIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6 350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE .. .. .. H,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
m
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE J EACH.
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Geni.),
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash StSydney, N.S.W.
m
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
VARLEY BROS.,
312-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building:, Perth
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM nor. Everything.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER I
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent]
0 Give Me 151
The Sweet and Good
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable |
from all Tobacconists'
MELBA ACCORDEONS
B
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten I
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia,
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street. Melbourne.
A FACT!
Memory
Means
Money !
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OF
MEMORY TRAINING.
will increase your power of thought-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with tjhe
best memories ; therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet,
“Memory and How to Improve It.”
The Pelman-Foster School of Memory
Training,
MELBOURNE: Box 0-02, G.P.O.
England : 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.C. ; Germany :
9 Mosartstr, Munich ; France : 109 Avenue de Neuilly,
Paris; U.S.A. : 1608 Masonic Temple, Chicago ; .South
Africa : Lynn Buildings, Durban, Natal.
Henry Skinner,
CJ]arendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORO
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1040,
The late Edward Spicer, of Adelaide, was
an eoonomieai employer. A clerk asked him
one day for a rise in salary (he was getting .about
£45 per annum). The request just about broke
Spicer up ; and he replied that there were clerks
in Elder, Smith and Co.’s only getting £6O
per annum who could speak three languages—
“ French, German, and shorthand.”
About another Apostle :
The strife anions’ the Dowieites recalls the casting out
of Messiah Fisher from the Church of the Firstborn a
good many years ago. Fisher burned charcoal and culti-
vated a cabbage patch at Nunawading, an outlying Mel-
bourne suburb, but, like Thomas Bent, he had a soul far
above graft of that kind. Frequently he saw the Spirit
descending upon him, and at last it came upon him like a
lightning flash that he was the veritable Messiah, divinely
commissioned to set up a church combining the best
features of Methodism, Mormonisni, and Freemasonry.
And an essential part of his contract was to redeem
Cohen. The tribes were to be rounded up at Nunawad-
ing, and then transported to Mount Moriah by super-
natural means.
The new Messiah soon had over a hundred male and
female disciples at his heels, and from among these fools
he selected a Voliva (whose official title was John the
Baptist) and a M’Cullagh (designated Simon Peter).
Fisher was not a fool himself—not altogether. He knew
something about clairvoyance and mesmerism, while he
was fairly successful as an Elijah. Among other pro-
phetic utterances he predicted that a certain Methodist
parson, who had gone to the Cold Country, would never
return to Victoria, and sure enough the prophei y was
fulfilled. That parson went down with the steame c Lon-
don in the Bay of Biscay.
Fisher also worked miracles—at a price. Simon Peter
paid him £lO to restore his (Peter’s) dead child to life,
but owing to the Apostle’s lack of faith the unexpected
didn’t happen. Then Peter publicly denied his Lord,
who by this time was developing polygamous tendencies
of rather too pronounced a character. He had a revela-
tion commanding him to take unto himself thq wife of
another Apostle, and when that Apostle heard of it he
straightway fell upon the Messiah and walloped him
severely.
John the Baptist next began to dream things. In his
own words, one of his dreams was to this effect: “ Behold,
I seen a paddick with two stumps in it, and lo 1 there was
men grubbing the stumps. One stump was labelled Big-
nell (the Baptist’s week-day appellation) and the other
h isher. And under the Bignell stump was found a large
nugget of pure gold, but there was naught blit a clod of
dirt under Fisher’s stump.”
Of course, the Baptist considered this to be a clear indi-
cation that the Messiahship had been transferred from
the unworthy Fisher to himself. Fisher, however, only
saw in the vision that the Baptist had acquired a fierce
thirst for gold, and the weeping, wailing and gnashing of
teeth which ensued as to the true interpretation of this
curious vision badly shook the walls of Zion.
Finally, a mischief-making Satan, in the guise of a
hook-nosed gentleman in the old clo’ line, brought the
Church of the Firstborn to wreck. This serpent, being
anxious to unload some of his dead stock upon a
guileless people, announced that he had just arrived from
a far country (possibly Gehenna) expressly to enthrone
the Nunawading divinity as the world’s master craftsman
of the mystic brotherhood. The enthronement was
accomplished, and then the hook-nosed Satan made
peremptory demand upon the Messiah for £3O, to recoup
his travelling expenses from the far country, and also the
cost of the jewellery needed for the imposing ceremony-
said jewellery consisting of a tin sword, and a few Brurn-
magen articles which had been hypothecated in the old
clo’ warehouse by a distressed barnstormer.
As the Messiah repudiated the debt, the Jew promptly
hauled him before the nearest Pontius Pilate (a suburban
house agent and J.P.), and as a result of the revelations
made by a cloud of witnesses in the presence of that
august personage, the Prophet Fisher was despised and
rejected by his disciples, and the Zion he had founded at
Nunawading collapsed.


LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
jFr*
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and aft'ectiou, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free c f charge and postage paid, will tell you
allabout thi< marvelous science. It contains
be >utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
Hand learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifer*
Write to-day. Address —
f
s»rof. R. H. BARRADEN, B 9 Pitt St., Sydney*
LINOLO
CLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Bole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Bole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing-sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address —
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
STDUET.
Ganz Electric Mine Locomotive ,
GANZ tr c
Mine Haulage
Equipments..
Have been specially designed to
meet Australian mining conditions,
and have been brought up by
many years’ experience to the
highest degree of perfection.
Sole Australian Agents—
IS AUSTRAL OTIS ENGINEERING CO
Cr. Hanna and Kavanagh Streets, SOUTH MELBOURNE*
[3
Telephone
No. 331.
&
■c
Ew lS
Sold
bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
e,& 9
'Ba a
ON/)
aE/j
,^ DO <V
; 86 3
1892
Estab-
-1750.
1
T /
s,
ROTMEtHAHS
S 3
The Australian Widows’Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE L OB N.S.W.-
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
' annual PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at. 601 or « ea f,® , rma ‘ rienfc To tal
SPECIAL BENEFITS :(1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of «d ,<> Tot j Disablement;
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (1) £2OOO iff death takes place as result of TemToVary Total Disablement;
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent partial Disablement, \ incapacitation through
V ~ ”• BAXTEB> R6B ~
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
&
&
m
v*
0
pcs
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
»nd entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Agents Elliott Bros.
Sole Makers: HI. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co
Melbourne.
-
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LIMITED
IN OUR ....
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL VALUE IN
Men’s Sac Suits
631-
Made to Measure In PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Mannftacture,
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and COATINGS.
resend for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
TLese Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-ma e.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT <•
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
ALL EYE TROUBLES. •>
never fails.
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
WILL ANDRADE for BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
f larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
1 6d. How to DaN'ce, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil ra Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House PaiWing
and Papering, 1/3. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all de-
grees, Is. Cycle Building and Repairing,
new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d. De-
cameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron. and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is.
NOVELTIES.
1
Ur/-
Hoyle’s Garb Games, Is.
Picture Frame Making,
Is 3d. Poultry Keeping,
Is. Dream Book, Is.
Every Man His Own*
Builder, Is and Is 3d,
Confessions of a Mel-
bourne Barmaid, illus., Is
3d. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman's New Conjuring-
Entertainment, Is 3d.
How to Bet and Gamble,
Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields,
Factories and Work-
shops, Is 3d. God and-
My Neighbor, 9d, p. Is.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
Engineer’s Practical Test f engines, boilers gas
engines dvnamos, 4/6. How to Make Op, Illustrated
S to the Stage, Is. New wtth
Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home lalr, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, °v« 400
colored plates and engravings, isCd posted. SAlliio,
genuine, Is. Dvnamos and Electric Moiors, ls 3d.
Midwives’ Handeook, 92 illustrations, -s 6d.
totle 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks W Coins,l s. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Better 1\ riter,
is. Photography, Is. Tocology for Mothers, is 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Ag .
ItEASON, is 3d. INGERSOLLS WORKS, 9d. IRISH
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. ‘"ON E \
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, bv Dr.
Warren is'; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is, post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Free Catalogues.
508 GEORGE
SYDNEY
ST.,
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE ST.,
LVUiLBOURNE.
AND
Si Britisb=Hustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
The British- Australasian is th<> journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
'S
Hn antique
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Ke-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 lOs.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored i"
Four Weeks by the use of
RX CORO’S
csstH ce °y u \ f
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBIUTJ.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparailel
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to tn
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freifthua
Is Gd. Pamphlets Free. Agents-Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 0 Connell S,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Pertn. _
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy mann
after many failures. I will send the curefr
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant , .
specialists until you have tried it. Address
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, <
Street, Sydney.
BLOOD PGiSON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted
old methods of treatment, and still have a
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth,
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spot ,
Ulcers on any part of the body, H
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.B.A*
The Labor party in S.A. threw the
Murray seat away. If it had been content to
support Brauer, a good Democrat, who came
within a few votes of success last year, it would
assuredly have secured his return, for he would
have captured a large proportion of the German
votes. But it ran a direct Labor candidate, and
he went down before the Tory candidate, Judge
Homburg’s son, who was backed by the whole
strength of the National League influence plus a
solid German support. Brauer stands as a Demo-
crat and Protectionist for the Wimmera seat in
Victoria at the coming Federal elections.
An incident occurred at the conclusion of
the recent Port Adelaide races at Cheltenham
Park. Passengers were waiting on the platform
for the last special to take them back to the city,
when some excitement was occasioned by an indi-
vidual who, under the influence of beer, accen-
tuated by the startling events of the day (one out-
sider paid an £BO div.), seemed to want to cast
himself beneath the wheels of the first train that
happened along. The man in charge of the
station, fearing the drunk might come to grevious
bodily harm, and being unable to combine the
duties of ticket-collector and policeman, rang up
the nearest police-station, and P.C. M. 123 was
despatched to the scene. The hurried officer
boarded the first up-train at A., the station west
of the racecourse, only to find, when too late, that
train did not stop for race passengers. He
alighted at “ 8.,” the station east of the racecourse
(and the drunk), and rushing round just managed
to catch a down-train on the point of starting. As
Cheltenham was neared, P.C. M. 123, prepared
himself to do battle, but alas ! without any
slackening of speed the train dashed through the
little station, and finally pulled up at “A” once
more. If the feelings of the populace were roused
by seeing their beloved representative of law
and order rush to catch the train for Adelaide the
first time, who can say what people felt when he
alighted from the down train, and once more,
after a sharp run, caught an “ up ” train exactly
as he had done 20 minutes previously ? Speculat-
ion was rife as to the cause of this unaccountable
conduct. In the meantime the train drew up at
Cheltenham, and the constable alighted on the de-
serted platform, only to find the drunk had
departed for Adelaide by another train, and that
he (the P.C.) would have an hour’s wait for a train
to take him home, with the option of a two-mile
walk. He took the-option, it being the only
portable object in sight.


By Royal
Warrant to
sdf
H!s Majesty
The King.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Btews, Ac.,
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
mM
■Jfi
w/otM ■tsi
from alt H VI
GftANPVftERAS T\
bdudin6]V‘ c ' c ‘ c
Recorded,
S&nor&RLOlkNI
m
DISC
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
NKOLEPHONES
The World's Triumph in Talking Machines.
From £3 lOs. to £l2.
NicolcpboQc Disc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUPLEX RECORDS.
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
lOin. . • 5/- each. 7in. - - 2/6 each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
lOin. - - 3/0 each. 7in. - • 1/0 each.
W. G, KING. AGENT. 316 George St..
SYDNEY.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
m
m
. B°° k of Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
i llustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals)'
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.’*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gii>sy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. SD*“ Established SO years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROiT THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
1 Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, bs 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. AVannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide’
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood’
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
.Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG HEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treac-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
CHLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, tfec. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
sd
I Sufferers from Deafness or He«._ poises
desiring a complete and permanent euro
should write to The L. R. VERNON ( O
'•“HUNTER ST ., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlefc desc Ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send nost
free on mentioning this paper.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLB MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free oi charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1 \ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors-rPROUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
fsd
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name tOF~
fs
WOOL
TALLOW
SHEEPSKINS
1L&F1 CO.. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
HIDES
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
says“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own. 5- ’
w
FOOD
For INFANTS. INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGER’3 FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE,
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
Bernard Espinasse,. who used to write
plays in Australia, but found that after all there
wasn t much in trying to found a local school of
drama as long as managers had the importing
craze so badly, now looks after the theatrical and
personal paragraphing for the British Austral-
asian. He prides himself specially on his “ half-
a-minute” interviews with Australians. Espinasse,
formerly a mild little man with a clean-shaven
and aesthetic countenance, is now a mild little
man with a greying beard ; nothing at all like the
popular idea of an interviewer that Yankee jour-
nalism has created.
Jack Shay ” wants to celebrate some
j übilees:
I didn't join the University, or Railway, or Parlia-
mentary, or other jubilatory crowds, but I have been
lying low and thinking of quite a lot of jubilees that
could do with a little remembering. One case is that of
an old man I know. He recently celebrated the jubilee
of his arrival in the Commonwealth. He had a cup of
tea and some bread for breakfast (3d.). For dinner, he
patronised a fourpenny restaurant—those who don’t
know what a fourpenny banquet is like have not lived,
they have only crawled upon the globe. In the everting
of his jubilee day, he had some tea, toast and a hit of
salad—another 3d. worth. Total cost of his jubilee
gorge, lOd. Add 2d. for tobacco, say, and the lot
comes to Is. And he jubilates like that not merely once
m5O years, but every day. He is a permanent jubilator.
■He gees 10s. a week pension (old age—not judge’s pen-
sion), pays 3s. per week for lodgings, and squanders the
rest in tucker and tobacco. Sometimes he practises
thrift, makes two feeds a day do, and buys soap or trifles
of that sort.
Another man who lately had a jubilee gives his pension
to an alleged philanthropic institution, and gets in return
lodgings and food. There are also one or two old ladies
1 know who have celebrated jubilees on somewhat similar
lines. But up in Queensland the aged jubilators get
only ss. a week, and it is said that most of them spend
every penny of it. The alternative is incarceration in an
institution that has had more scandals and has been
inquired into oftener than any other place of the sort in
Australia. Down in Victoria there are other old men and
women on whom, as everybody knows, the Government
lavishes untold wealth—about 6s. There are likewise the
aged poor—and Heaven help them—of the States that
dont lavish even 4s. But worst of all is the case of
the venerables who have shifted from State to State and
are cold-shouldered by all the States.
Now, just by way of variety I want to see all these old
people have a jubilee apiece, and I ask the Australian Par-
liament—which is young, but will be old itself some day—
to do the necessary. And the means is aFederal Old A«-e
Pension scheme to supersede the existing, or fill the gap
caused by non-existing, State schemes. I want it to be a
perpetual, or at least a life-long, jubilee, running to
im K,U ol s !' or at * eas *' 12s - 6< *. per week per old person.
The States have all celebrated jubilees; the Australian
Government to be in the fashion should follow suit. And
the oasis of every jubilee is a square meal.


Dissolve a few Peps on the tongue, and breathe into the
throat and lungs the rich pine fumes then emitted. Sore=
ness is ended, and the “ cold=germs ** are completely destroyed.
No ordinary medicine reaches the seat of a cold like Peps.
The cold weather has made many people turn to Peps for aid; for in this new
remedy we have a treat ment that is as effective as it is pleasant. A neglected cold
may turn to influenza, pneumonia, bronchitis, or consumption. More deaths are the
indirect result of cold and chill than of anything else. M atch for the first signs of
a cold—“running” at the nose, that “made-up” sensation, those pains across the
temple that sneezing and painful coughing, soreness of the throat, feverishness,
hoarseness, and heaviness about the eyes.
All, or any of these symptoms, should be signal for a dose of Peps, which, by reason of theii unique
composition, can be taken at any hour, in any quantity, at any age, and by either sex without the distuibing effects
produced by opium cough mixtures and bad-tasting lozenges. Peps curq a cold by destroying the gums that & he
rise to it. These germs are found to flourish most under certain conditions. They flourish m all towns and in all
places where people are bunched together, as in theatres, restaurants, and over-heated 100 ms. They And favorable
lodgement in the mouths and throats of those people who are run-down, debilitated by illness, over-fatigued and worried,
or who are easily affected by sudden change in the temperature and do not wrap up or take other precautions against
chill on a wintry night. Simply place a little Pep on the tongue and let it dissolve in the stimulated seci c.tions of the mouth.
The healing and antiseptic fumes of the pine at once impregnate the linings of the mouth, and down the wind-
pipe into the bronchial tubes and the lungs. The pine essences are carried over the diseased surfaces with every
breath, and the noxious germs are utterly destroyed ; and new health and disease-resisting power is impaited to the
delicate tissues.
Peps act as an expectorant, loosens the phlegm, and not only remove any. existing obstruction to
respiration, but dispel that dull, heavy throbbing which is so often present in the head. Peps will combat the
very worst cold in young people as well as old, and avert all those many serious complications that generally
threaten. In whatever way a cold or chill has affected you—in head, chest, or back—Peps afford the treatment
which is the safest, surest, and the most thorough, because it aims at the root-cause of catarrh and kills the cold-germs
themselves. Always keep a box of Peps handy. They are equal to a Pine Foiest in Lvety Home.
BRONCHITIS.
BRONCHITIS means inflammation of the delicate membrane lining the
tubes that carry the pure air into the lungs. These tubes are a con-
tinuation of the windpipe, which first divides into a left and right
branch, and sub-divides again alter the fashion of the branching of a
tree. The membrane lining these air passages is well supplied with
blood vessels, and is extremely sensitive to any sudden change of
temperature, as in chill. There is a rush of blood to the affected
membrane, setting up the heat and redness inseparable from
inflammation. Severe coughing, great exhaustion (in adults)
feverishness, heavy breathing, pain or tightness about the
breastbone, headache, loss of appetite are symptoms of
bronchitis. The rational treatment is by breathing m the
pine fumes emitted from a few Peps as ,th<?y dissolve cjn the
tongue. The phlegm i loosened, the glands that secrete
the mucus are helped back to their normal activity, and
restores tone to the delicate and injured linings.
ASTHfIA.
ASTHMA, like all complaints of a nervous origin, varies
considerably with different individuals. The victim of what is
called the asthmatic habit may meet with a spasm at an}’ time.
Asthma, when complicated by heart troubles or bronchitis, be-
comes dangerous as well as alarming. Inhaling the soothing
fumes from a few Peps as they dissolve on the tongue is
extremely useful in averting an expected attack, or in cutting
short one that has already begun. The pine odours filter down
the fine air-tubes, alleviating the distressing sense of suffoca-
tion.' So great is the relief to be obtained by dissolving a few
Peps on the tongue that the chronic sufferer will never be
without a box in his vest pocket.
As a Household Medicine they are of unequalled-service, especially for Colds, Coughs, all .Bronchial Affections, Sore or Relaxed
Throat CsWnfss LosTof Voice, Asthma, Influenza, Pneumonia and Pleurisy, that Hacking Cough, Lung-weakness Childien s
Colds Whooping Cough Croup, Chill, or Tightness of the Chest, that old Breathing Difficulty as well as for many cases
of Headache Fffitulence and Indigestion. Price, 1/C per box, of all Chemists and Stores, or Post Free, for same price, dnect
from the Sole Proprietors, The PEPS PASTILLE CO., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE
TRIAL.
Send this Coupon and Id. Stamp to the PEPS
PASTILLE CO., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. W.,
when a free test sample of Peps will be forwarded
by return.
The Bulletin, July 12, 1906.
•I'///.
\
%
a
%
56
M
&
%
m
*”4
Asl
•/.«
XQ
8
//«
%
msm^Srz.
3§r
F
r J
rr
f.
A '
■
■ .
■
-
/'-•
m.
m
1 i
PW
*
* - * A-fr*'
SH ■ ?
-. ,
'- : V»
'' • /'>- r ;
••-/''


Indigestion
AND
LIVER & KIDNEY
DISORDERS
All yield to Mother Seigel’s Syrup. It
is a vegetable compound of selected
roots, barks and leaves. When your
stomach fails to digest food properly
your systm is thrown out of order.
The blood becomes impure and the
poisons and acids generated affect your
stomach, heart, kidneys and liver. But
all of these troubles
ARE CURED BY
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IT CURED
Mr. Thomas E. Watson, 10 Chapel St.,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney, who writes:
“ For over three years I was a victim
of Indigestion, with intense pain.***
On a friend’s-advice T used Mother
Seigel's Syrup and it cured me quickly
and completely.”
It will Cure You
The
Way
To Brains
The right kind of brain makes
money and “does things.” You
can’t have a strong, sturdy,
money-making “thinker” un-
less you feed it on the kind of
food the body requires to rebuild
the brain and nerves day by
day.
You can have sharper brain,
keener memory and better health
on GEAPE-NUTS.
GKAPE-NUTS food is made
for that purpose and and it does
its work. Trial proves it.
There’s a reason.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to—JAHUS FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
270 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. Od. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Bladder Disease can be Cured
From Mr. Alex. Dickson, 90 East Belt, Christchurch, N.Z., 21st February, 1904.
‘‘During recent years I have been troubled with urinary difficulties. My bladder seemed sore
and irritated, and my physician said I had catarrh of the bladder, which was difficult to overcome on
account of my advanced years. Warner’s Safe Cure was recommended to me, and I took frequent
doses, hardly daring to believe that I should be helped, but, to my relief, I found that the irritation
gradually subsided, the urinary difficulty passed away, and my general condition improved. I have
enjoyed splendid health for the past six months, and really feel younger than I did some years aero
thanks to Warner’s Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Christian Lawson, Cook-street, Auckland, N.Z., 17th March, 1904.
“I suffered from inflammation of the bladder for thirteen months, and only those who similarly
suffer know anything about the agony 1 endured. It is one of the most painful diseases a person can
suffer from, and one of the hardest to get rid of. Had it not been for Warner’s Safe Cure I feel that
I should be in my grave to-day, but, thanks to its wonderful efficacy, I am in the best of health instead,
I took fourteen bottles and felt my health and strength gradually return. I believe jny restoration is
permanent, as I have not had the slightest pain for over three months.”
From Capt. W. J. Stuart, Master Mariner, Station Avenue, Coburg, Vie., 6th April, 1903.
“ It is with much pleasure that I beg to inform you of the great benefit I have derived from taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. In the early part of last January I had a chill, which turned to a very severe
attack of inflammation of the bladder. I consulted two doctors, and after examining me each said it
was a disease common to men of my age (1 am now over GO), and that I could only .get relief by using
an instrument, as medicine would do me no good. I positively refused to let either of them' use an
instrument on me, but at once procured a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure. I conscientiously and
truthfully declare that before finishing the first bottle I got absolute relief and began to feel better-in
every respect. I have continued to take the medicine, and my health has wonderfully improved. I
am in as good health now as I can ever expect to be, and my recovery is entirely due to Warner’s Safe
Cure. I carefully observed the diet directions given in your book. I most strongly recommend
Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone who suffers as I did, and can only add that to me it has proved
invaluable.”
Writing on 7th March, 1904, Capt. Stuart says : — M I have receiyed your letter of sth inst. making
inquiry as to whether I can now confirm the statements made in my letter to you of 6th April last
year, and am very pleased indeed to be able to advise you that I have had no symptoms of an\ return
of bladder trouble, and my general health is so satisfactory that I am constantly being congratulated
on my renewed vigor by all my friends. I can only add that I cannot be too grateful, as lam sure
that I owe my health to Warner’s Safe Cure. The effect of the medicine in my case has been most
remarkable.”
From Mrs, Elizabeth Roben, “Brighton,” French-street, Kogarah, Sydney, N.S.W. 25th
September, 1903.
“ About eight years ago I was attacked by great pains in the stomach and severe vomiting. 1
took a bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure, but it did me no good. I then went to the hospital and under-
went an operation, but was not cured. The pain I suffered was terrible. The medicine the doctors
prescribed gave me no relief. I was brought home and treated by another medical man, but still
obtained no relief. He at last said he could do no more for me, and my friends were sent for. My
sister having great faith in Warner’s Safe Cure brought a bottle with her, and gave me a tablespoonful
every quarter of an hour from eleven o’clock until one, and I was wonderfully relieved. I continued to
take Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills until I was restored to health.”
From Mr, Joel Weatherby Bolton, King Edward Street, North East Valley, Dunedin, N.Z.,. 10t)i
February, 1904,
“ I was in good health until about four years ago, when I noticed that my back became lame and
sore. The pains kept increasing, with severe twitches and slow exhaustive aches. My urine was
highly colored and irregular, and I found that I had inflammation of the bladder. 1 tried many
remedies without getting better, but finally decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure, and within a few days,
to my great joy, found relief, 4- continued to take the medicine, and at the end of three months was
restored to perfect health, lam only too pleased to endorse the value of Warner’s Safe Cure.”
From Mr. Joseph Agnew, Fairfield, N.S.W,, 18th September, 1903.
“ Some years ago I was attacked by great pains in the groin, which at times were sp bad that I
almost cried with agony, I was treated by doctors, but found no relief. A friend advised me to take
Warner’s Safe Cure, which I did, and after taking two bottles I was quite cured.”
From Mr. J. Fredk. Holmes, Auburn Road South, Hawthorn, Vic., 12th February, J.9Q5.
“ 1 have much pleasure in stating that while in Sydney I was a great victim to bladder trouble, I
had suffered for years, and had taken various medicines, when I decided to try Warner’s Safe Cure
After taking one bottle the trouble abated, and before finishing the second I was all right again, and
.eouJd sleep .the night through without trouble,” riqi
We are on the SPOT
with Crystalate Billiard Balls
m
m
Tke •
Only ■
Subsrifufe
for •
Ivory
ALCOCJ?& C?p?j,Mct. JX/zmpmSt
The Qrystalate
Billiard Ball , .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right' through and
Will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been adjnitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms—
-422 GEORGE STREET
The Inky Way.
Six-to-Pica Load ’ writes r Forty-five years ag*o the
Legislative Council of Queensland moved the Attorney-
General to hale before the Supreme Court the editor of
the Moreton Bay Courier for printing in a leading
article a seditious libel on that body. The nominees
had, some time before this, refused to receive a petition
in favor of increasing the salary of the only Supreme
Court Judge in the State on account of his Honor’s
alleged political partisanship. For doing this the
Courier printed the offending article, some of the pas-
sages in which were very, very hot. For instance: “ The
members of the Legislative Council have disgraced them-
Selves, and are destitute of gentlemanly feeling,’
" They have an utter disregard for the truth,
and have not the slightest acquantance with the
first principles of justice.” ‘‘They have shown brazen
mendacity, a Boeotian density of intellect, and possess
a legal monopoly in slander.” The trial came off
before the Judge whose salary hadn’t been increased,
and the “ pure merinos” thought the defendant hadn’t a
leg to stand on. But the Judge’s charge—written in
favor of the defendant before he had heard a word of the
evidence—was read to the jury, which immediately re-
turned a verdict of “ Not Guilty.” The Opposition paper
next day regretted that Parliament had been prorogued
without passing an Act to enable a prisoner to try his
own case. “In one Bill,” it said, “ a clause has been in-
serted to allow a prisoner to give evidence on his own
behalf, and it would be only one step further from
the witness-box to the Bench.” In this case the pre-
siding Judge had written the libellous article, so the Tory
Paper, making a wild swipe in the dark, almost hit some-
thing without knowing it.
* * * *
S.A. Register lately celebrated its 70th birthday with
& flourish. It looks its years, too. Adelaide itself will
hot be 70 years old till next December, but then the
province (it is very proud of never having been a
1 colony ”) was planned out on paper in England before-
hand as a kind of philanthropic speculation, and the first
llegister was actually printed in London on June 18
1836, the second appearing a year later in Adelaide. The
Sydney Morvixg Herald is the only existing Australian
Paper senior to the Register.
Lawson’s “ Frenzied Finance ” tells a quaint story inci-
dentally of an American newspaper. A “ robber syndi-
cate” had, by nefarious means not specified, got control
df a big paper. Then they came the “ double cross ”on
-wo of the officials on the staff. Presumably those two
had assisted in the treachery whereby the syndicate got
Control; anyhow, they resented being given short notice
c o quit, and they looked round for a weapon. There was
h big outside lawsuit pending against the paper—big but
hot dangerous if defended. The two officials proposed to
k'o to court, while they yet. represented the paper and
confess judgment. They had, for the moment, the power
do it, and they made their own terms with the in-
coming proprietors as the price of nol doing it. They are
'‘till on the paper.
The editor-proprietor of a little Australian weekly has
an original way of getting a maximum of work out of his
boy comps, Every now and then he bets them small
sums of money to nothing that they can’t set, say, half a
column in an hour. The lads make strenuous efforts to
accomplish the impossible, and are rewarded with “Near
it then, Bert 1 “ Better luck next time, Jimmy ! ” And
the crafty editor gazing at the rapidly piled-up type,
chuckles at his cleverness in avoiding the necessity of
employing another hand. J
* * » *
a “ Ex -Seraph ” : lie E. S, Cunningham, of Melbourne
Argus (B. 24/5/ 06). If Cunningham was ever “ Ithuriel ”
of the Parliamentary “funny column, ” it was onlv for
one or two issues. For the last five or six years D. H.
Maling has held the spear whose touch is not so light as
it might be. &
* * * *
The publication of the Age will be discontinued from
the close of the present quarter.” This startling an-
nouncement will probably be set down as a lie, pure and
simple, but anyhow it is to be found in cold print in that
offn 0 * 11 ! 00^11 " 18 ' But it was a good while ago—on
26th December, 1854, just a few weeks after the paper’s
first arrival. The same issue also supplies the informa-
tion that the AGEdies in the midst of a vigorous and
youth.’ But the paper didn’t fizzle out m
that premature fashion after all. Apparently, the
management succeeded in flying a kite, as a notilication
appeared four days later to the effect that arrangements
had been made to go on publishing for six months longer
“ at all hazards.”
* * *
Of. : The glorious uncertainty of race-tipping was
quaintly illustrated by a sporting scribe who used to
write for an Australian evening paper. He knew so little
about his trade that he frequently tipped horses that
were very unlikely starters. The head printer had
standing instructions from the sporting' man that when
any of the tipped horses were scratched towards the time
for going to press, their names' were to be replaced,
where possible, by others of similar length, so as to save
spacing out the line ! This haphazard system of selecting
winners by length of name worked out remarkably well,
and the. casual tipster acquired a reputation for possess-
ing unusual astuteness and special sources of informa-
tion. After all, racing is a toss-up, and the tipster who
tosses up gets there as often as not—if his coin doesn’t
go down a grating when it descends. It lias been calcu-
lated that there are nearly £000,01)0 of tossed coins down
gratings.
* * * *
Thomas Walker, M.P. for Kanowna (W.A.) is a jour-
nalist of the heavy, quotation-slinging brand. When he
starts out to write an article, he generally begins like
this: “ flow well do we remember the words of the
historian.” If that excerpt has no particular bearing
upon the subject, the result is just the same. It serves
Thomas as a peg on which to hang bis adjectives, and
that is all the chosen of Kanowna needs. Once, when
Walker was running the now defunct Perth Sunday
Press, a member of the staff took a base advantage of his
foible. As a deliberate “sling off” at the boss, lie
interpolated, in an article upon Predestination or there-
abouts, the following; “ How well do we remember those
stirring words, ‘ The spoon is now in the porridge.’” And
Thomas, whose heart warmed to the very suggestion of a
didactic quotation, passed the joke through without a
smile.
*,. * * *
“ Bung ”: In Echuca (Vic.), we have a newspaper
called the Riverine Herald, “the only daily paper pub-
lished in Kiverina.” If you see a man wearing a worn,
haggard look as he comes down to work in the morning,
you can safely bet that lie lias* not had tune to read the
’EraCD. It records the transference of any of the local
banking magnates on £45 a year, but when Pat ltyari was
promoted from the logyard into the sawmill, not a word
was said. It grows on us, and is, in fact, like the
“dr-rink evil” to a temperance advocate—our very
existence. You will read a stirring article in the
Riverine Herald on Patriotism and Protection for the
advancement of Australia, and three columns further on
is “ Our Sydney Letter, from our ow'ri correspondent,”
culled from all the Freetrade and B'tinkiiig-Fish news-
papers of Sydney. It is very, very pathetic, hut the
Riverine Herald seems to lack humor or something.
* * * *
“Wang”: How some people clip their words! I w'as
hurrying down Swanston-street, Melbourne, to catch the
tram, when a girl came up to me and said “Hell.” I
staggered at the unprovoked profanity, and was about to
remonstrate when she said “ Hell ” again. Then I saw
she was holding out a paper, and 1 realised it w as her way
of saying “Herald.” I bought one. (It was a very
quiet issue of the paper that night, and nothing in i't
justified the girl in calling it the name she did.) At the
corner of Flinders-street an ancient warrior offered me a
Herald and said “ Hurgh-r-r.” At the railway gates a
small mannikin, whose big cigarette made a letter “F”
of him, capered Wildly, offered me a Herald and said
“ Ral.” Musing on these things I went on the platform,
and a porter yelled i'n my ear “ Ricbmon’—S’yarra—
Pran—Wins—Baela—Elsvvick—an—Brion—tra-a-ain.” Of
the lot I preferred the girl who said “ Hell.”
* » * *
Harmsworth, alias Lord Northcliffe, alias Alfred the
Great, annually goes through the many newspaper offices
under his control and invests all he thinks unsuitable
with the Noble Order of the Boot. This lie calls his
“ spring-cleaning.”
* * « *
The evolution of the comp, proceeds rapidly. At one
time lie was expected to provide only stick and rule, and
didn’t always trouble about bringing even those imple-
ments along with him. Nowadays most of the letter-
press of a little Melbourne weekly is set by a comp, who
has brought his own monoiine machine to the office.
* * * *
“,Melb.”: Another fresh local, No I. vol I. Antiquarian
Gazette. You may imagine how I wolfed this for
pabulum, and my disgust m finding it only Assyriology,
Egyptology and Jenohology, for Dryasdusts, Smelful-
guses, and Mundunguses, with eyes in the backs of their
heads.
* * * *
The Australasian of March 31, in an article entitled
“ Players and Pavers,” starts off by saying that “ an
American journalist has noted that Australians are
prominent in many sports—pre-eminent in some,” and
then goes on to discuss what are alleged to be the opinions
of J ulian Hawthorne, the aforesaid American journalist.
These opinions, however, were acknowledged by Haw-
thorne to be a summary of a chapter in E. O. Buley’s
Well-known book on “Australian Life in Town and Coun-
try,” which was reviewed all over Britain and America,
hut which was noticed by only three Australian papers—
The Bulletin, the Sydney Mail, and the Booklover
(Melb.). It is quite on a par with the patriotism of
allegedly Australian papers like the Australasian to
notice an American reviewer, but to ignore the Aus-
tralian author who provided the matter.
* * * *
Considerable changes have taken place on the staff of
Melbourne Argus. David VVatterston, who has been
editor ever since Howard Willoughby vacated the chair,
has been promoted to the position occupied by the late
F. W. Haddon—representative on the Argus of the
Edward Wilson trustees. The editor’s chair is taken by
Edward S, Cunningham, who was chief of staff
and associate editor for the last twenty years.
His place as chief of staff is tilled by H. O, Jones,
the man who has run the Federal politics of the
paper ever since there was any Federation. It lias
always been supposed .that Jack Nish, the sub-editor of
tlie paper, held a reversion of the chief-of-staffship when
Cunningham should vacate i,t. He, however, still retains
his old job of sub-editor. Cunningham holds rather
advanced ideas for an Argus man, while Jones is even
further aljead. But probably the spectre of old Argus
tradition Will get them both down and sit on their chests.
* * * *
“ T-D-”: Remember being asked by the editor of a big
Australian daily whether 1 knew anything of a man who
had just applied to him for a billet. Told him I’d seen
some of the man’s verses, and they were pretty good.
“ I don’t want an adjective poet,” snapped the editor,
1 1 want a police court reporter.” Eventually, however,
the applicant was engaged, and he wrote the snappiest
court pars that paper had ever seen, although the sub.
was in a constant state of perturbation about the law of
libel. The sub. grew extra puzzled when be noticed that
the opposition paper missed quite a number of excellent
rtems each day, and was driven at last to make inquiries.
Then it turned out that the imaginative poet and police
court reporter had daily invented a number of humorous
cases because there wasn’t sufficient interest in the
actual court proceedings—he had painted the drunk and
hung the flowers of his imagination round the disorderly.
That enthusiast expected to get sacked, but the editor
put hnn on to write against the Labor party, and his
remarks about the broken marriage tie and the dese-
crated hearth make bright reading to this day.
THE MTERARY HERO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I cannot write in “flowing style” or wield a “mobile
pen
To use the cant of books that rant of literary men—
I cannot “dash off” poetry, and often have regrets
That I’m not like the writers they describe in novelettes.
They always have ideas of the niost attractive brand,
And flinty-hearted editors just take ’em by the hand,
And load em up with whisky and Egyptian cigarettes,
While they write their way to glory—that’s the way in
novelettes.
Oh! the shilling novelette ! I must own I’ve got a “set”
On the preternatural pressman of the shilling novelette.
The literary hero’s pen runs like an auto-car,
In quickest time he “jerks” a rhyme or “fakes” a comic
par;
Collectors prize his signature—he laughs a scornful laugh
As with his auto-mobile pen he pens his autograph.
It doesn t matter what he writes, or how he slings it out,
Or whether it’s in prose or verse, or what it’s all about;
It always knocks the public, and with shekels fills the net
Of the Admirable Crichton of the silly novelette.
Oh ! the silly novelette ! Just the greatest fraud I’ve
met,
Is that quill-propelling person in the silly novelette.
He writes an ode at six years old that takes the town by
storm;
At twelve attains the highest planes of literary form,
And editors of magazines crawl half across the town
To beg a page of priceless “screed,” and plank their
guineas down.
He climbs Fame’s ladder at a bound or two, the novels
say,
(Of course, for he’s a “ bounder ” too—but that is by the
way).
But how the public eulogise, and how the critics pet,
The literary flier of the spicy novelette !
Oh ! the spicy novelette ! I’ve a very heavy debt
W hieh I mean to settle some day with the spicy novel-
ette.
He never drinks, but often “ quaffs ” ambrosial kinds of
brews,
Which stimulate his mighty brain and brace his “giant
thews ”;
He “sinks upon” an Eastern lounge, and elevates his
shoes,
And “ dashes off” a leader for the local Even Noose.
He has some giddy orgies, but he never knocks about
With ordinary journalists who swallow pints of stout;
\ou always find him moving in the very highest sets,
The joyous, jim-jam journalist of lying novelettes.
The misleading novelette ! Its perusal doth beget
In my bosom grave suspicions of the specious novelette.
Hes got a “marble brow,” of course, upon a life-ion"
lease; B
He s mostly half a London dude and half a god of
Greece—
to read about his “thews of steel,” all gathered in a
lump,
It gives an Unsuccessful scribe the biggest kind of hump.
He always grabs the girl that’s got most beauty, brains,
and “ rooks ” ;
He takes her to the theatres in very low-cut frocks ;
He has a truly gaudy time among the girls, you bet,
The petted, pampered pressman of the giddy novelette.
Oh ! the giddy novelette with our virtue doth coquette—
It’s really hardly proper to peruse the novelette.
He’s always got a wondrous work—a book !—upon the
stocks ;
He reads each thrilling passage to the girl that’s got the
“ rocks.”
She prophesies his deathless fame and flops upon his
heart—
Though brainy, she’s quite usually a giddy kind of “tart.”
And when his “ book ”at last comes out—oh, then well,
I should smile !
The way they advertise his stuff it makes me green with
bile.
They’ drag it from the linotype and sell it dripping wet—
A million copies ! Rights reserved !—Oh, d—n the novel-
ette 1
Oh, the ghastly novelette ! Jumping wild, I own, I get
With the weird, abnormal genius of the awful novelette.
N.S.W.
IRONBARS.


Doctors and Hospitals Called It
Chronic Eczema and Said Sores
Never Could Be Healed Child
Was Getting So Bad Mother
Didn’t Know What To Do.
CURED BY CUTICURA
AT A SMALL EXPENSE
“Words cannot express my grati-
tude for what Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, and Resolvent have done for my
df
son, who when two
years old had ec-
zema as bad as any
child could have it.
1 had several doc-
tors, but when they
v stopped treating
him his head would
begin to get sore
again, almost the
next day. It got so
bad I really didn’t
know what to do. At last we took him
to the hospital, where the doctors said
he had chronic eczema. They gave
me a wash for it, but said it was fool-
ish to think of it ever being cured.
“ The child was failing so I thought
I must do something, and reading
about Cuticura, I went to the nearest
drug store and purchased a set of Cuti-
cura Remedies. I used half of them and
found some relief and improvement,
but thought the change for the better
was only temporary, as it had been
with all the other medicines ordered
by the doctors. But bj r the time I had
used one cake of Soap, one and a half
boxes of Ointment, and one small
bottle of Resolvent, the cure was
complete and permanent, with not a
sign of a sore from that day to this, -
over two years. I shall never be with-
out Cuticura Soap. Mrs. J. Schepperle,
Brooklyn, N. Y., Feb. 9, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co.,Merchants, Sydney, N.S.W,
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug &. Cliem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
nsr Mailed Free, “Dow to Cure Every Humour.
Address, li. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
fvfade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
A FREE GIFT SALE
7/6
=2^
SSa
Fra?
Post
For one month,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
5.000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes, 1 4 in-
ches long, 7/6
Post Free.
(GIVEN
AWAY.
One Feather
Pom Pom 'liven Free to everyone ordering
this jnontl}. Catalogue Free. Write
to-day. Send postal notes.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt Bt., BYDNBYS ® l ® o
Corner of Bourke and Swans*o:i Sts., MfiLßUgnwe.
(.Mention Tiik Bullktin.J
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin” Writers*
The Book is adorned . . .
By “Bulletin” Artists*
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN GOOD YARNS—ALL
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the price Post Free from this Office.
Consumption
Can Be Cured.
At Last a Remedy has been found
that Cures Consumption.
sr.
r-:
/'J
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman. Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consumption.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured the
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages of
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con-
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hund eds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery-
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless > f cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself iffective and speedy in curing' atarrh. bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles.
In order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free Trial Treatment can be obtained
writing the Derk I’. Yonkerman Co. Ltd.,
900 Uixson Buildings, Sydney, .''end no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
Trial Treatment. It will be sent you by return of
post, carriage paid,
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don’t wait if you have any of the symptoms of con-
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis,
asthma, pains in your chest, a cold bn your lungs, or
any throat or lung trouble, write to-day for the free
trial treatment and book of instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring- along your Cars and Cycles to —
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
DC-LIVE AGENTS WANTED IN .VARIOUS STATES.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam°<Anisee(f
Pop
COUGHS
COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS
Safe for Children.
TRADE
MAE
°^anTse& o
Of all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
L. you get Powell's with above a
Trade Mark.
«e>
m
&
<J?
THE SCIENCE OF SUCCESS
Reader, have you ever stopped to consider
why some persons are so successful; why every-
th' i they touch seems to turn to gold ; why they
acquire wealth, position, power and influence
Without any seemingly great effort on their part ?
Such persons surround themselves with friends,
are honored and respected in their communities;
are sought after in society, and gain prominence
and distinction without apparently trying. Have you
ever considered these things ? Do you know why ?
■* Not hircl work, for the poor work harder than, the rich. Not birth, because many of out
successful meit are of lowly parentage. Not luck, for many a lucky man dies friendless and
WHAT
BRINGS
SUCCESS.
poor. We will tell you why. The secret of success in life is personal
influence—the ability to make others think as you do; to win their
confidence and friendship and get them to help you. There is a secret
power by which you can wield an irresistible personal influence ; by which
you may overcome all obstacles, charm and fascinate whom you will; by
which you may cure every known disease and bad habit without the aid
of drugs, medicine or the surgeon's knife. It is called personal Magnetism
or Hypnotism. It is the basis of success in every business and calling.
It is a God given power that is the heritage of the poor as well as the rich. It is truly
the wonder science of the age. Consider what it means to be able to convince a man that your
A GOD-
GIVEN
POWER.
goods are the best on the market, that your services are invaluable to him,
that you are offet ing to him a, good invest . ent, that he needs what you
have to sell, that your o inion is correct, that he should act upon your
advice, and a thousand other things of this kind. Consider what an advan-
tage such a power would give you. If you wish to secure a good paying
position, obtain an increase in salary, or add to your ptesent income in
a ny way, a knowledge of hypnotism will prove inval able In hundreds
of instances it has been the turning point in the lives of people vgho were
ready to giye up in despair—for whoin the future seemed to have no hope.
We have just issued the most remarkable book of the century, which explains all about
hypnotism, personal magnetism, magnetic healing, etc., in language so plain that a child can
understand it The book was written by Dr, X. LaMotte Sage, A.M., Ph.D.,
LEARN
AT HOME
FREE.
LL.D., the most eminent and renowed hypnotist of modern times. It tells
of new secret instantaneous met ods which enable any intelligent person
to learn this ihysteiious science at home in a few days, and use the power
pn his friends and associates entirely without their knowledge. We
absolute y guarantee success or forfeit $1,000.00 in gold. Many persons are
now making from to per year from what they learned from
this remarkable work, while some nave grown immensely wealthy-
Dr. Sage, the author of this rare book, has determined that all the people shall now have
the mvsterious secrets which have been so jealouly guarded for ages. He has determined
that the poor shall have an equal chance with the rich.
A BOOK
OF RARE
SECRETS
GIVEN
AWAY.
He had sold the copyright of his book with the under-
standing that Ten Thousand Copies shall be dis-
tributed to the public free of charge; and this
agreement is now being complied with. Anyone can
get a copy absolutely free, postage prepaid, simply
by addressing ifd. post-card to the
NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE,
Department 22N Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
«• This great work is worth more than gold. It is full of wonderful secrets and startling
surprises. Its teachings are next in value to those of the Holy Bible. I advise everyone
to obtain a copy — Rev. PAUL WELLER, Gorham, N.Y.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
%
Works s Birmsngnam, Englmnd,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.otting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box,
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The Prooshan” The Chinky gold fossicker
mostly “ cracks ” poverty. I recently came across a
clay-encrusted rooter, busy with dish and scraper.
“Good-day, John, ketchem plenty gold?” I asked.
Straightening his back, lie looked up and remarked,
“Plenty go’; no fe-ah ! Too poor. \ou sharbee, lung
time before plenty man got muchee ketchem. Now no
more ; allegether go way, you arnerstlian’? Sheposem
ketchem littee glabba (gravel) longa lock, wiley good.
Sheposem ketchem no glabba longa lock, no good.
Jeshie here (just here) no more glabba longa lock, no
more clevisbee (cre\ices), no more 010 feller (nuggets), no
more littee jung feller (specks), no more niarshetard
(fine gold), no more von pennyvet (pennyweight), von
week. Me too poo’, no more moanie, no more opie
(opium), no more blinket (blanket), no more talker, harp
tie (half die) allegetter.” Then, bending his dungarees
once more to the strain of toil, he sighed, “ Too poo’, too
poo’allegetter.”
A customer, whose application for a substantial
addition to his already large overdraft was under con-
sideration, recites how he took pains to get the alfair
through. “It had to go before the directors, of course.
Last overdraft they told me that, so I made it my busi-
ness to find out how they were disposed towards me before
the meeting came on. They were all reasonable, but one
—old Goggles—and, if no one raised a stiff objection, each
of the others agreed to let me have the money. But
Goggles—you know Goggles?—he nags like the
very mischief, and anything like rigging' the
board sets him on end. Well, Goggles was just going
down to the bank when I rang him up on a post-office
telephone 1 and told him his wife was taken bad. The old
buffer hailed a cab, drove to the railway and caught the
first train. ’Twas an inspiration, wasn’t it? I got the
overdraft all right.”
* * * *
Conservative Melbourne got a slap in the eye
recentlv from Or. Broda, professor of economics at Paris
University. Broda has been recently going into the Vic-
torian Wages Board system, and, speaking at the Anti-
Sweating League, he delivered a real outburst of Gallic
enthusiasm in its praise. As one who had investigated
the clothing trade all over the world, Broda was compe-
tent to express an opinion, and he stated that he had
nowhere else found such perfect conditions as exist in
Victoria to-day. He would have appreciated the Wages
Board system' all the more had he been in Melbourne
in the * early nineties, when Wages Boards didn’t
exist, and a large proportion of the white work
was let out bv the big Flinders-lane firms to Hindus and
Syrians in Little Lonsdale-street and the surrounding
lanes, and under the fatherly care of these Asiatics girls
worked in damp, unventilated rooms for 12 and 14 hours
a day, until they were let off in order that they might
make up by prostitution the balance of the money neces-
sary to keep them alive. The Wages Board system has
swept the Hindu and the Syrian out of the business,
forced the big firms to provide proper workrooms, and
given every grown-up girl 20s. a week. Broda touches
one point that Fat generally overlooks—that the Aus-
tralian factory girl is now, by reason of her healthy sur-
roundings, a fit person to become the mother of future
Australians, whereas the factory girl of London and Paris
is more often than not a consumptive, and in nearly every
instance a weed. “I stood ag'hast, said Broda in true
Parisian admiration, “ when I went to ]< oy and Gibson s
factory and found those fine, handsome girls with their
eves all shining with the joy of life.”
J ® *
The goat industry in North Queensland is
emerging from the common or jam-tin goat stage. Six
first-cross with Angora williams and nannies were
recently sold for £2O, and half-bred Angora kids in the
same region are bringing 12s. each for butchering pur-
P° ses ’ * * a ®
H Pictures !” said the auctioneer’s clerk, looking
round the walls of the cottage drawing-room, “ They
won’t fetch much ; it’s no use my sayiii’ they will,
Pictures is a drug in the market, so to speak. I don’t
want to hurt your feelings, ’specially as you’ve done ’em
yourself, but, if you value them, take ’em away with you,
\Yhy, when I tell you that last week they were
starting a Ner-Li at 55., p’raps you’ll see what X mean,
Now pianos we can sell, as I sez to that poor Miss Hardy,
as was sold up, last week, at llarlinghurst (nice young
woman she was too): ‘Ef you’d put your money in
pianos instead of pictures, you wouldn’t have had the
bailiffs in now.’ No, Borsetralia’s no place for art. You
see, the people aren’t eddicated up to it yet. They likes
something solid for their money, say a plate-glass ward-
robe or a good gas-stove, f’rinstance, but pictures,
coorios or carvings, they don’t understand them.”
* * * *
“T. O’Fipp”: Whene’er I take my walks
abroad'in the neighborhood o' Melbourne Hospital lam
disgusted by the naked and unashamed way in which
about a dozen vendors of glass eyes,' wooden legs, metal
and leather spines, and coffins (especially coffins) flaunt
their wares, in full view of patients who are being taken
to the hospital or who are convalescing in the grounds.
Among the most disgusting exhibits are the photos of
nude remaining portions of amputated limb?, as they ap-
peared before and after using Blank’s marvellous appli-
ances. Evidently the limb-mongers do not realise that
they are doing tlieir best by these displays to kill sensi-
tive patients who might otherwise live to be customers.
» • * *
During a recent inquiry re titles, in Maoriland,
there was produced a copy of the original deed of sale of
3500 acres of the land on which New Plymouth and its
suburbs are built. The New Zealand Land 00. was the
buyer, and the original brown owners were placated with
the following4o red blankets, 80. white blankets, 40
nieces of print, 36 skirts, 400 yards of calico, 20 frocks, U
cloth caps, 3001 b. of soap, 9 double-barrelled guns, 2501 b,
of powder, 54 pots of powder, 4 jackets, 12 roundabouts,
6 boxes of percussion caps, 8 women’s garments, 1 linen
garment, 6 shawls, 3 waistcoats, 3 rugs, 3 pairs of trou-
sers 60 iron pots, 12 calves, and £5O sterling.
* * * *
“ San’’ i What callous beasts bird and animal-
shopkeepers are ! My windows look out upon a bird and
animal shop and a poultry shop. The live stock people’s
place is crowded from floor to ceiling with pretty joeys,
and galahs, and guinea pigs, and the smell from it on a
February afternoon is worse than that of “Fair Edinboro,”
in the olden days. The people in the beast warehouse
sometimes have a sick animal that has no chance of
recovery. In the good old days, when people’s minds did
not run so much on cleanliness and such like frippery,
the sick pup or monkey would be allowed to die on the
premises and then be thrown into the lane. Now the
invalid is gently deposited outside the gate when alive
and its ownership is repudiated. It is allowed to make
dav and night hideous with' 1 howls of hunger and pain
until it passes away, Sometimes two pups are outside at
onoe with mange, and as that does not kill quickly they
make dreadful discordances before disease and hunger
kill them. As for the poultry-sellers—well, they pluck
the birds alive.
* * » •
Extract from a letter from one of a white gang
trashing cane in North Queensland The whole gang
is doing splendidly ; seven out of the eight had not been
in a canefleld before, yet in one week they completed 13
acres, averaging £1 12s. 6d. They find Mr. Horton a good
man to work for, and are well satisfied with the accommo
dation.” “ Trashing” was the one particular operation
about a canefleld that the black laborites asserted could
never t>e done by a white rhan, yet North Bananalanc*
papers arefull of complimentary references to the g-ooa
trashing being done thebe at present by the vigorous and
fairly-paid white laborer. White labor for the canefields
has come to stay.
THE BORROWED CROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I had been some bloated millionaire
Instead of what I am —without a sou—
I would have missed the rapture, wild and rare,
Of borrowing a hoarded crown from you.
I would have missed, old man, the laughing chink
Of youthful silver, and the friendly light
I see within your optic, ere you wink
And slap me on the shoulder —“ That’s all right.’'
Chum, I believe when we aloft do fly,
And our two ghosts go roaming round the town,
Just as in life—from force of habit —I
Will borrow your last solitary crown.
VIC.
KODAK.


sd
fsd
fsd
fs
VICTORIA eg
Collins & SwansronS 1 :? Melbourne Jr
WEST. AUSTRALIA /ft
395&397 Hay S.T Perlti ({[[
QUEENSLAND f\N
Queen a Edward S* Brisbane\%D
NEW ZEALAND W
H 65143 Queen St. Auckland
15-3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
336 5333 HighS^,
Princes 5 DowlingS* Dunedin^
I
I
© ©©©©©©© © © © (5 ©
a! If it 6 from |fa
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the
store nearest\
you.
?Oo
©©©©©©©©©©©©©
~sr
**• f THWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
j ? ® r ® y *** e om >ss»on of “glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
Solid Silver Pig Pin Cushion, 9s (id.
Solid Silver and Glass Hair l J in Box, 7s Cd
Handsomely-Mounted Solid Silver Comb, lls. 6d.
Solid Silver Olotli Brush, Good Hard Bristles, 14s fid*
Solid Silver Watteau Hair Brush, 12s Gd. Comb
to Match, 3s Gd.
Solid Silver Large Size Hair Brush, £1 2s 6d.
Solid Silver Cherub Hair Brush, 15s 6d. Mirror, 255.
«E 5
m
'-W-'- «c. t: T_
Sohd Silver Trinket or Hair Pin Box, £2 10s ; Smaller, 255, 32s 6d.
Solid Silver Pin Tray, 10s 6d.
Pierced Solid Silver Puff
Box, Glass Lined, 25s ■
Larger, 37s 6d.
Solid Silver Embossed and Pierced
Sweet Dish, 21s,
Solid Silver-Mounted Velvet Glove
Box, £1 ss.
Solid Silver Watteau Pin Tray, 10s 6cL
Solid Silver and Glass
Tooth Powder Box and
Rack, 21s.
Ebony and
Solid Silver
Hair Pin
Roller,
3s 6d
Solid Silver-Mounted Curved Manicure
Scissors, 8s 6d.
Solid Silver-Mounted Daisy Shoe Lift, 3s 6d :
Hook to Match, 3s.
solid Silver-Mounted Velvet Jewel Box, £2 5s
i'ivpr,-r
rjl'jrsri
m
l' r i'rr
R'J)
l>.\
nM
mm
Solid Silver and Cut Glass
Salts Bottle, 3s 6d.
Solid Silver Watteau Pin Tray, 12s 6d.
££*&
Solid Silver Scissors Case, containing 3 Pairs
, Best Scissors, £3 10s.
Solid Silver and
Cut Glass Hair
Pin Bottle, ss.
lIS
Solid Silver-Mounted, fitted Leather Jewel Case
£2 15s.
Solid Silver Trinket Box, 30s.
Solid Silver Mounted Shoe Lift, 3s 6d.
Hook to match, 2s 6d.
Solid Silver and Good Bristle Hair Brush, 27s 6d.
lam
Solid Silver and
Cut Glass Salts
Jar, 9s 6d.
Solid Silver-Mounted Cherub Comb, 4s.
Solid Silver Cherub Pin Tray, 12s 6d.
Fancy Clear Glass and Solid
Silver Powder Jar, 11s Gd.
-
Solid Silver Velvet Lined Trinket
Box, £4, Smaller £3.
Solid Silver and Cut
Glass Salts Bottle, 9s 6d.
Solid Silver Cherub Pin
Tray, 5s 6d.
ms
Cut Glass and Solid Silver Hair
Tidies, 17s 6d, Plain Top, i7s 6d.
df
Best Quality Bristles and Solid
Silver Watteau Hair Brush, £2.
AHGoods so/d for Cash and delivered Free on receipt of Remittanco.
Best Quality Solid Silver-Mounted Shoe Lifts, 4s 6d, ss, ,6s 6d.
Boot Button Hooks to Match, 3s 6d, 4s, 5s 6d.
sdf
Real Ebony and Best
Bristle Hair Brushes.
Solid Silver Shield, 10s 6d
Large Size, 14s (id.
offer you the biggest and best variety of fashionable and dependable Goorf...


CONS
ALL’S
(George Adams. Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
SILVER CITY CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 18 • - ” ”
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., Aug. 11-
ROSEHILL CUP, Rosehill, N.S.W., September 15 ... -
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
will be 2d. on each
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax
SS. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may e orwar e uou s 1 au y J
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
\WM\T
Wo’Ocve’r sY\ou\& \)e, 'N'vWvouX: \fc
Ap/vp/esswe to/'eta/y adapted to toe pro mftp to/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?l
from 6/rt/i to 3 mo/?tAs
Milk Food N? 2
from J to 6 mont/zs
Malted Food IN?3
fro/n 6mo/it/is upwards.
& Lofius Sts., Sydney
DRUG HA j3IT
HAVE YOU FAILEI THROUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DOKT DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABIT
OR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
wiil surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Raveruthorpe. , WA.. 23-9 04.
Have finished the hoi/ course, which has
effected a cu/e. I have no desire for drink,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very iuea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
Tfie Dr. Langston institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET.
V c LBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Hearne
Cure
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
- TTIT mTTTI W/VDT Tk
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam or
Soreness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it eliects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic nor Consumption to develop. ConsuHipfct »i• •
nev enAieen khlvra*to exist I where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. _. . __ _ _ € _
BHIWA.R.B OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THI3 RULE.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send me by return post
one large bottle of vour Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantity of your Bronchitis- Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Clyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO
YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say
that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of
health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure
in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
- ■ Smeiiton; Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 7:5 YEARS OF‘AGE
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCpTIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF-EFFBC-i WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l have been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend- of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dosegaye me lmniediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been-most wonderful. lam
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the’ benefit of humanity
generally. Yours most respectfully,
CT THOMAS R. TREZISE, ’
Reedy Creek, Victoria. ■
DRY, HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hack-
ing' cough on my chest that used to trouble me terribly
at night-time. I was told it was a touch of Bronchitis. I
tried different sorts of medicine, which took no effect, so
I tried your Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure
in informing you, relieved me at once. It has completely
cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on your
medicine for a thorough and immediate cure.—l remain,
yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH,
AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success, until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured me, and I am per-
fectly free from any cough now.
E. ASTALL,
1 , 116 Shields-street, Flemington,
Melbourne
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY ONE BOTTLE
OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,— My daughter, 12 years of age, had a
very bad cough that had been a trouble to her for years.
I tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of
them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried one bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since
she finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been won-
derful.—Yours, etc.,
- J. BATSEN,
, . v . Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CUBE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing 1 to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in m.v chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be
consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that 1
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridge Road, S.E., London.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH FOR
TWELVE YEARS.
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir, —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from a most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctor’s prescrip-
tions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and
difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. I remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
. vWEU- E YEARS’ CASE CURED BY ONE SMALL
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Wv G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without
it.—l remain yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt affords me very much
pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of vour wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can
sav without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having-had Bronchitis in a severe form it com-
pletely cured me, and now in the Winter months if I at
all contract a cold on the chest it gives me instant relief.
I have also proved its efficacy with members of my
family, whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the
chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir,
you are deserving of the best thanks of the community
for introducing- to suffering humanity such a valuable
medicine.
I remain, gratefullv yours,
W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Haying been a sufferer
from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking
two doses only 7. I have since proved its efficiency m
quickly curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels
stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medi-
cine for chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them
all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received.—
I am, Dear Sir, your faithfully, D. BEATTY,
Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Last winter my youngest
son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest, had a dry,
distressing, hacking cough which troubled the poor little
fellow very badly at night time. I tried many so-called
panaceas, without any- appreciable effect. But after
using less than a bottle of y'our Bronchitis Cure I am
pleased to say that the child was cured and is now- quite
well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely dis-
appeared. I have had much pleasure in recommending
your magical medicine to my friends. —Believe me to be,
yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES,
“Lillieslea,” Union Street,
Windsor, Victoria
HE ARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot— office . No. First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


VISIONS OF WEALTH
TRADE
umm
ForJ
5;
Couchs
C o l D §|
CR O U
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
or THE
Throat, Lungs
and Chest.
PREPARED BY
SHELDON DRUG C? I
Sydney n.s.W.
visit us all, at times, but are not likely to
come true without the good health which will
enable us to grasp the wealth that continual
striving brings. Nothing is so sure to pull
down the vitality as the constant Colds,
Coughs, and Catarrh, which afflict so many
people, and nothing will so surely prevent and
cure those weakening diseases as
D ! SHEIDONS/SJhs
NEW < g^ OLD S AND
Discovery^ umpt,on
that remarkable curative medicine for all dis-
orders of Nose, Throat and Lungs. This new
scientific specific has never been known to fail.
It will quickly relieve and cure the most
obstinate Coughs, the worst cases of Hoarse-
ness, Sore Throat, or Catarrhal discharge from
the eyes or nose. It is guaranteed. Try it!
JOHN W. MALL, Hon. Secretary of the
Melbourne Press Association, and publisher of
the Port Melbourne Standard, writes as
follows :
Sheldon Drug Company,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,- Having been thoroughly cured of a
heavy cold on the chest hy DR. SHELDON’S NEW
DISCOVERY, I beg to tender you my gratitude.
The first dose relieved and soothed the congestion,
and after treatment for three days, no evidence
remained of a cold that had cost me many trying
days and nights. I found it warming, soothing,
and powerful in its operation.
I have recommended it to two of my employees
suffering from Influenza, and consider you are
quite entitled to the above.
Very truly yours,
J. W. RIALL.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG TROUBLES.
It lias proved a blessing’ in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
patent medicine, or an ordinary cough mixture,
but a scientific discovery that will make sore
lungs well.
To be obtained everywhere at 1/6 and
3/-, or will be posted upon receipt of
price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., 15 O’CONNELL
STREET, SYDNEY.
A
Ta
%
Vara
m
For
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Chill-on-the-Liver,
influenza,
Weak Chests.
For
Weak Backs,
Aching Kidneys,
Asthma, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.
A Remedy of over 50 years' standing. Prescribed by Physicians and sold by Chemists in every pari t 4 Ou
civi iz d world. Quai anteed not to to:itain Belladonna, Opium, oi* any poison whatever*
ALLCOCK’S—The Original and only Genuine Porous Plaster.
Wedded.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is no life that fadeth not, nor faileth,
Xor any love that will not soon grow
cold ;
The cloudy mantle of oblivion veileth
Ashes, where radiant fires were lit of old ;
Xo beauty is, but the worm’s mouth will grasp it
(O cruel doom for that bright breast of thine !)
Xo sun-kissed head, but the dank earth shall
clasp it
W here suns no longer shine.
i ime mines unseen beneath our temple, builded
l'o Love that seemed immortal in his power
W hen first our souls upon his altars yielded
1 mpassioned incense for one burning hour ;
Till, with a shattered heart, we wake to find it
Ruined and robbed—the god no longer there—
The veil all torn and trodden—and behind it
His holiest altars bare.
That dear delight of ours so lately born
Dies wilted ere a day its bloom has risen ;
Its wondrous fragrance lived from night till morn
Turning our senses faint; thine arms’ close
prison
Made me a god—their capture was so sweet—
Drinking the nectar of thy thymy breath ;
Hut Death is waiting for our love complete,
Death, Death ; and only Death.
Twin hands that held my heart within their
hollow,
Every tempestuous pulse in their control,
When that sweet power is ended, what shall
follow ?
What pallid tenderness shall us console ?
Letter, before their clasp begins to lighten,
To part while at a touch our senses thrill,
Before the heavy eyes have ceased to brighten
And the drawn lips grow chill.
Xow, ere your breast is cold with passion perished,
Xor troubled with the tumult of your sighs,
Slay suddenly the love that we have cherished
And laugh to kill it, knowing we are wise.
For life with weariness is overweighted.
And too much withers that we could not save;
Hut love full-fed is worse than love unsated,
And finds a grosser grave.
Vio.
P.N.
“For all Prisoners and Captives.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FINDING the hill steep, I sat down on
a convenient bench by the roadside. The
sun shone rarely through the crisp, bright
air, the blue harbor glinted between the long folds
•of the hills—a day to open doors and windows
and hearts.
Idly I noted the reach of high grey wall oppo-
site, the blank gates fast shut, the squat tower
showing above, with its hard-featured clock grind-
ing out the third quarter past 11, before I realised
it was the gaol beside which I rested.
A short, slenderly-made girl, with cheeks still
childishly plump, came wandering up the road.
After an irresolute pause, she too sat down on the
bench. She was dressed in tawdry pink, a string
of imitation pearls round her neck, and holes in
her ridiculous shoes. “ I can’t abear to go inside
to wait,’ she began. “Seems as if I’d never get
•out again.’ She laughed nervously, and her
pretty, silly little mouth twitched.
Wonder what my boy ’ll have to say to me,”
she giggled. Then her eyes filled with tears.
“ ’ T wasn’t my doing to get him shut up, but he
knocked me silly and I screamed, and they
thought he was going to do for me, so they
fetched the police, and he got run in. A month’s
card, ’ she sighed. Her eyes dilated.
Dor, he will be in a scot,” she whispered,
lhe necessity was on her to talk. She could no
rcorekeep silent than she could keep still.
“Gmls like us don’t have much chance,” she
said. “ Mother died when I wasn’t but three, and
father was always drunk, so they put me with the
Sisters. Kind and good they are, but they
don t know nothin’. Why, any of us big girls
could have told them more’n they ever heard in
their lives. When I was 14 they put me out to a
place as tweeny maid—a fine big house and a
room to myself and lots of splendid food. I
thought I was in luck.
“Tom was under-gardener there, but him being
out-door and me being in-door he didn’t take no
notice of me. Then the youngest son came
home for his holidays—a great lout, eighteen
or so, but a man grown to look at. He kept
worrying me, and hindering me, and pouncing out
on me, and I didn’t dare to say anything. Missus
thought the world of him. He took the lock off
my door one night and I piled all the furniture
against it and lay shaking till daylight. There
was two housemaids left already, got into trouble
-with the other young gentlemen. Then he got
worse than ever—such a great clumsy lout, and
me, I ain’t very big now but I’ve grown a lot since
then. One evening the housemaid was out and I
had to do the rooms. I was in the bathroom,
tidying up last thing, when in he comes after me
<md shuts the door, and puts his back against it.
“ I was that frightened I couldn’t scream out.
The window was wide open just behind me, and
when he come over close to me I give one screech
and jumped out over the sill, and tumbled all
anyhow into the geranium bed underneath, ’most
on top of Tom.
“ ‘ What s here?’ he says, and picks me up in
his arms. I held on to him and roared and cried,
I was that frightened.
“‘Take me back to the Sisters,’l says; ‘oh,
take me back to-night.’ So he took me right
back there and then, without even a hat, and that
was the first time he seen me to notice, tho’ I
seen him before. The Sisters wasn’t best pleased
to ha,ve me back on their hands like that. They
said it must ’a bin my fault, or why didn’t I tell
the missus. ’Twasn t no good Calking, so I just
took the very next place that came. It was right
out beyond the trams, awful dull, and heaps of
work, and on your evening out nowhere to go,
and coming home in the dark thro’ the paddocks
you never knew when you’d run into a cow or a
hull. I did one night, and he chased me to the
sliprail. I stayed there till I got typhoid, and
they sent me off to the hospital, and when I come
out I wasn t too grand. Then I went as general,
and nine to family, and the washing done at
home, and no chance to get out but Sundays. I
dursn’t leave, I hadn’t a penny saved. Then I
met rom again, and he took me to the Cup, and
i had a drop too much, and—and—you know.
“1 kept in my place for five months after; I
dursn t leave till I’d saved a bit. They did say
, f ,0 temper of the devil, but I was most crazy
thinking of what was to happen to me. Tom,
he d only laugh, then they found out about me,
and told me to pack, and I went to Tom and
begged and prayed of him to marry me, but he
only said what did I take linn for. At last he
said he’d come and be married next day if I’d
give him a sovereign. So I give it him, and we
fixed to be at the church at 12 o’clock next day, I
went with my cousin, and when Tom came he was
that drunk he couldn’t hardly stand, and he said
I must give him another sovereign or he’d leave
me. I cried, and told him I couldn’t; and then he
began knocking me about. My cousin, she flew
at him. ‘ Vou low coward ! ’ she says, ‘ you dare! ’
she says, ‘ I’ll teach you,’ she says, and she gets
her teeth into him. But he wouldn’t marry me
all the same.
1 had the luck to have my baby born dead,
but people got to know, and I couldn’t get a
decent place, so I went to live with Tom. I get
somethin’ to live on the best way I can. Some-
times lorn ’ll get a job, but he always goes on the
spree and Joses it. He can’t bear to be spoke to,
can t lom.”
•Just then the hard-faced clock began to grind
out the fourth quarter, and footsteps sounded
within the gates. The little woman grew pale,
then flushed a tearful crimson.
‘‘Oh, I wonder what he'll say to me,” she
whimpered.
The gates swung open, and out shuffled half-a-
dozen released prisoners, unnaturally shorn, tidy,
and pallid. I’om slouched last, a great, hulking
fellow with a truculent face. The girl caught him
by the arm, laughing as she greeted him, but her
bps trembled. He poured out a vollev of oaths
at her.
Get off me,” he growled, “ or it’ll be the worse
for ee.
"Oh, rom,” she panted, “I’ve got such a nice
bitof dinner ready. Come on home and have it.”
He thrust her aside with a blow ; she cried out
and nearly fell.
“Now then ! Now then !” called the big war-
der; “ steady there ! D’you want to come back
for another month ? ”
111 come in for something more next time,”
growled Tom. “ You just wait, m’lady, till I get
you ome,’ and he lurclmd down the street. Khe
stood a moment, shivering, then trotted after
him, the noisy sobs half-checked in her throat.
A. W.
Sunday in Sydney.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AFTER an absence of spine years, I
lately arrived in the City of the Beautiful
Harbor. First Sunday the keeper of
iny suburban pub. warned me, if I intended going
into the city, to lay in a stock beforehand, as
Sydney was a mighty dry place now. But I
thought I knew Sydney well, so I had no fears on
that score, and I wandered forth.
After getting up a good thirst I called at
various pubs which I had always looked upon as
thoroughly reliable upon any day, or at any hour,
but was met always by che cold eye of suspicion,
and the hostile mouth of blank refusal. I was
amazed; this was not the Sydney I used to
know. Time rolled on, and so did I. My thirst
having become colossal, I said to myself, “When
in doubt, play a trump.” So I approached a
policeman and, putting my hand in my pocket,
blandly enquired if he knew of any place where a
stranger who knew no guile could raise a drink.
He looked the guileless stranger over from head
to feet and back to head again, and snapped out,
“ Yavventahoap,” and left.
During many years’ experience in all parts of
Australia I have never yet struck my flag to the
Cold Tea crowd. I now nailed it to the mast,
and continued my quest with an ever-increasing
thirst. But failures were so many that I was
beginning to consider the wisdom of falling
back on the oasis of my suburban pub.
when I ran into an old friend. His symp-
toms, in my state of 40 h.p. thirst, were as a
glimpse of Paradise to a lost soul. He heard
my pitiful tale with anger. “ What ! ” he
shrieked, “frenamine in Sliydney ’n’ wants drink
on Sunday, beuful day like this (hie) ; come on.”
I supporting him, we proceeded down a right-of-
way, and entered an enclosure which looked like
a timber-yard in an advanced state of decomposi-
tion. I was ushered into a place surrounded by
stacks of timber. A.bout a score of men were
lapping up liquor, throe pairs of hands being
engaged dealing out the same and raking in the
cash. No other parts of the owners of the hands
were visible. I took a willing hand in the fray,
my friend playing an accompaniment in a minor
key.
1 have a very hazy notion of how we got out of
there, and the pavement seemed to have an eccen-
tric curve when we left. My friend pointed out
where the Dunbar was wrecked in King-street (a
pub. stands on the ground now. We couldn’t get
in), and showed me another building used as a
natatorium by G. H. Reid for training his dog
(latter since deceased).
After proceeding some distance, my pilot
stopped in front of what was apparently an
unoccupied house in a terrace, and, after looking
up and down the street, went up and knocked at
the door. We entered. Seeing no one, we
traversed a long passage, and descending two
flights of stairs, found ourselves in a cellar, or
basement. In the dim light I could discern a
crowd of men of all sorts and conditions in various
stages of liquor, and though I have seen some
pretty steep drinking, 1 pass that crowd the crust
without reservation. Any opinions I may have
expressed about previous records are hereby with-
drawn in favor of the performance under notice.
As before, only the hands that dealt out the
drinks and scooped the money in were visible,
the owners being hidden by a screen. There
was a sort of communism in the matter
of drinks. It did not seem to matter
whether you drank your own or the next man’s.
Io get there was the great object. It didn’t
matter much how. We got there.
I do not remember getting out of there, but
distinctly heard my landlord remark, as he lifted
me out of the cab, that “ he knew the blasted Act
was a failure,” and when I woke next morning
with a head like unto the seven deadly sins, and
a t a raging dingo, I was inclined to agree
with him. I have not met my friend since, and
don t want to. I hope he is dead.
VULCAN.
The Mirror and the landlady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE used to be hurried and careless
when she looked at me,” maundered the
mirror to the draggle-tailed landlady.
“She would stick a flopping baton her shining
fleece of brown hair, and barely wait for me to
tell her if it was on straight. Then she com-
menced to spend more time with me. She’d twist
about before me, looking at me with a dozen
different expressions, anxious to know if I thought
her alluring. I guessed what it was all about.
Some man had told her she was pretty.”
1 -Little pink and white baggage ! ’’ muttered
the landlady.
h rom that time on her interest in me grew.
And she came to me for counsel in almost every-
thing. She would show me how white her soft
breast looked against the pale muslin she wore.”
“ Hussy ! ” said the landlady.
‘‘When she stepped into her flimsy nightgown,
she d stare into my face, half laughing ; then run
off to bed, to sigh and toss until she slept. I
guessed why. Some man had made her love
him.”
“ Love, indeed !” sniffed the landlady.
“ One night she came in later than usual. She
sat still for a long time, then came over to ask
me if she looked different at all, she said. The
soft shadows about her eyes and the blazing
scarlet of her lips improved her wonderfully.
Even the purplish mark I spied on her throat was
charming. But she went away from me in tears.”
The landlady groaned significantly.
“Not long after that night she became very
unhappy. She’d sit looking at me for an hour at
a time, and suddenly leave me, sobbing in a heart-
searing way. One day she told me it was my
fault—her pain and disgrace—that I'd taught her
to believe him.”
“They’ve always got some excuse,” said the
landlady.
“ She stood by me for a while on that last night.
She whispered that I should see the end as I had
the beginning, and that I was partly to blame
right along. She had been dead for more than an
hour before you came into the room,” said the
mirror.
“ Died without paying her last week’s rent,”
replied the draggle-tailed moralist.
TRIXEY.


ousness
YEARS OF SUFFERING ENDED.
sdf
B
iILIOUSNESS arises from a disordered
liver. The liver is the largest and most
important organ in the body. No won-
der, therefore, that when out of order it
throws everything else wrong. When you are
bilious, every thought of food may be nauseous.
When the room gets warm, you may feel very
uncertain as to whether you are going to be
sick. If you hurry to catch a car or a train
there the feeling may be again. Headaches
turning off with sickness, and a nasty-coated
tongue, are other symptoms of biliousness.
All° this arises from misdirected bile, due
primarily to improper liver action. It is by
prompting the liver to proper action, and by
purifying the blood from the bile elements
which have escaped into it, that Bile Beans cure
biliousness whenever they are used. This is
proved by the case of Mr. Homan Rice,
photographer, of 207 Walker-street, Red fern,
Sydney, who says “For a number of years I
was subject to severe attacks of Biliousness, and
was at times quite prostrated, and unable to
attend to my business. I tried various medi-
cines, but gained little benefit from any of them.
Some time ago, when explaining my trouble to
a friend, he advised me strongly to take a course of Bile Beans, as he could speak
from personal experience as to their efficacy in such cases. , j
advice! and gained considerable benefit, in fact, since that time I have nevei had
those prostrating attacks. I can, therefore, with confidence recommend Bile
Beans to fellow-sufferers.”
T'.TT.TC REANS have a world-wide reputation as a proved cure lh cases of
STI i p^.TION^PILES >I< NEK VOUSNESsi
giving tone to the system, will ward off COUGHS, COLDS, ancl iin T/V i JUh
Obtainable generally at 1/4, or 2/9 LARGE BOX (contains three times the 1/4 size )-
£M
PO
m
s
<c
p'--
0
o
wa
J 8
ONE
BEAN
ONE
DOSE.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Slotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd #
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
Wreckage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BOOM of breakers whitely curling,
Subtle sense of mystery,
Fantasy of shallows swirling,
Libertinage of the sea ;
Fling ashore the useless lumber,
Flotsam of the universe.
Peradventure, rouse from slumber
Humans muddied with their curse.
Tossing in Titanic pleasure,
Green leviathans they come,
Prancing to no craven measure
In burlesque of Christendom ;
Human hearts are aching, breaking,
W reckage of the battle-stress, .
Not a message worth the taking
Comes to brighten aridness.
Organ-fugue and crash of thunder,
Dulcimer and lute and threne,
Frenzied with the lust of plunder,
What may the grim message mean ?
Half the world is drunk with laughter,
Drifting where no folly wanes,
Half are trusting the Hereafter
To assuage their hunger-pains.
Carry we a mongrel visage,
Grudge our spirits earth’s sweet breath,
Sing enthralment songs of presage
On the threnodies of death ?
Best to let lame Melancholy
Dog the laughing feet of Earth ?
Best to wear the cap of Folly
Or the cerements of Mirth ?
What chimeras ! Nothing matters,
Gaily swings the pendulum,
Saint importunes, worldling chattt rs,
Beats for both the muffled drum ;
Fashion virtues out of vices
With a trumpery apophthegm,
And the blare of tongues suffices
For the spirit’s requiem !
Priests would cure the world with oral
Undiluted hellebore;
Statesmen make the savage moral
With a squeaking statute-law ;
But the comic wizards flout them,
Pull their flimsy schemes awry,
Fling amid tilled fields about them
Seeds of rank inconstancy.
Boom of breakers whitely curling,
Subtle sense of mystery ;
Fantasy of shadows swirling,
Libertinage of the sea ;
Fling ashore the useless lumber,
Flotsam of the universe.
Peradventure rouse from slumber
Humans muddied with their curse.
N.S.W.
H. M. WHITNEY.
The Returned Australian.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE been interviewing a returned
Australian. He is not a G.M.G., and he
hasn’t come back in bag pants and a shiny
bell topper. He worked his way out and round
old England and other places in a tramp steamer,
and although an ache for brighter and better
lands drove him away, he came bade ready to
bite the ground for natural love and affection.
“ We were seven weeks out of sight of solid earth
on the home run,” he says, “ and I tried hard not
to think of the bush, because when I did I cried
like a kid. ’Tvvas nothing new ; others have done
it. It’s a great, hungry craving that takes hold
of you, and makes you so desolate and hopeless
that the tear pumps work on their own.” The
Australians he met abroad were not gentlemen
travelling for enlightenment and the pleasure of
kissing King Ned’s paw. They were hard graf-
ters, sailor men, and ex-sailor men, and artisans,
and miners, the latter often men who had been
homeless and hungry in Capetown. And the cry
was the same in all cases, and arose from a
passionate longing to get back to Australia
God’s good country.
“ Think of Australians stranded in an English
coastal town,” be said. “ But you can’t, because
you know nothing of the horrors of poverty.
Poverty has to get down to the bedrock of wolfish
hunger, and that hunger has to go with rags, and
rain, mud, fog, snow and ice before it becomes
really English, really awful. You can’t know it
by reading of it ; you’ve goc to see it, or, worse,
you’ve got to feel it. We were at the pier at
Woolwich for a fortnight, and I got an object
lesson there on the hideousness of low life in Eng-
land. There are laws prohibiting the throwing of
food refuse from ships into the river. All ours
went into a keg, slops of soup, scraps of bread and
fat, tea-leaves, sour milk, potato skins—every-
thing. It was an unpleasant swill in a few days,
and then a couple of us had to carry it along the
pier to a bin. We had not gone many yards when
about 30 wolfish men rushed us. Have you seen a
pack of hounds on a dingo? That’s how those
men went for that keg. They emptied it. They
ate literally everything. They ate it like pigs.
We carried the keg back cleaned. But things are
cheap in England, especially policemen. One
night I saw a music-hall performance, had a
glass of beer, and tipped a policeman, and the lot
cost sd. At Cardiff a policeman nearly fainted
with surprise when we gave him 3d. to pilot us
through the labyrinth of railway trucks to where
our ship lay, and then he wanted to do more for
us. He was afraid he hadn’t earned the thrum.
Cardiff is like heaps of busy English ports—
abominable. The streets resemble two long rows
of butter-boxes piled three on, and marked off
into so-called houses. They are of great length,
and the monotony of them is hideous. When men
talk to me of the splendor of English towns, I
think of those streets and get a headache. Port
Melbourne, with its rows of cottages and scraps of
garden, is Paradise compared w'ith the peoples
quarters irf a British port. In London I saw men
and women run from their houses and dance m
the middle of the street, shouting and rubbing
their hands together like people before a fire. A
slat of sunshine, such as might fall through a
small window, had dropped into the street, and
that was why. I and my mates stood and laughed
at those misfortunate cockneys. We could afford
to laugh ; we hadn’t to live in their street.
“We had a few lads aboard who had been in
Australia before, and who had succeeded by hook
or crook in scraping money for a cheap return.
One or two were born Australians. These last
had seen the worst side of things in London and
at the Cape. They did not say much. They
were very quiet, very subdued, but for all that
they gave the impression of lads who in playing
wag had got their noses into hell. They sat up
all night, when the land was about due, looking
for Australia, and when they saw it, instead of
shouting for joy as they’d meant to do, they
snivelled. How it knocked everybody who had
ever sat under an Australian sun, that glimpse of
Australia ! If you want to teach Australians to
adore Australia send them away for a year.
“God’s good country !” was the pet term —not
spoken carelessly like, but with a whole human
soul in it, and spoken by lads who had been
poking about the world trying to better themselves
in places where a laboring man’s damned lucky if
he can keep alive and sufficiently dressed to satisfy
the law.
“ Talking about assisted immigration, the idea
isn’t sweet to me. Because why ?—we had a draft
of assisted immigrants aboard, Irish, Scotch, and
Lancashire navvies going to Maoriland under
contract. They’re welcome to them. Maoriland
doesn’t know them as I do. It hasn’t lived
in the same ship with them, and been called on to
handle them. I have, and I can keep my end up
with the rough man who is a man with it all, but
I say God help the country that imports trouble
by shiploads. There’s no savage on earth to
equal tne savage created by European civilisation,
and Maoriland’s getting out some striking sam-
ples to build its railways with, take it from me.
E. DTSON.
Griffo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Sydney Rocks push is not extinct.
Here and there, around Dawes and Miller’s
Point, one still meets a dozen half-developed
boy-men, who occasionally surround an old-age
pensioner or throw something at an unaggressive
blind man on his way home at night. To stave in
a Dago’s fishing boat with boulders is the only
form of humor that ever raises a laugh with them.
1 met one of them recently at a dance given in
honor' of a forthcoming dog fight. He spoke
rationally for five minutes on the best way to lob
metal at a policeman the moment he paused to
unhelmet and wipe his heated brow.
“ Fightin’s a dead art with us since we lost
Griffo,” he said, intelligently. “ Talk about yer
Togos, Griff was worth his weight in shrapnel
when it came to in-an’-out stoush. We’ve ’ad
dozens of little boys who might ’ave waltzed into
the world’s championship, o’ny fer the cigarettes
an’the beer. S’truth, yez could take the pushes
from ’ere to Botany an’ yer wouldn’t meet a bloke
that could chop a bit of ice or spar with a three-
pound rooster.
“ There ain’t nothin’ wrong with the pushes.
They marry an’ settle down, an’ fresh youngsters
fill their places at the corner. Some goes in fer
darncin’; the quiet uns like to plant a bit o
metal round ter keep the John’s feet from freezin’
in the winter.
“ I see Griffo fightin’ nine blokes on a fire-
engine one night. ‘ Yeh wet me matches wid yer
hose,’ he says— 1 yeh sp’iled me papers.’ It was
outside the fire-station. One of the coves had
turned the nozzle full on Griff an’ blew him into
a Chow’s arms across the road.
“‘Yah,’ sez Griff, swiping him on the jaw,
‘ whatcher smudderin’ me science feh, eh ? ’ He
hit the Chow another terrible punch, an’ jumped
on a passin’ bus. '
“ It was joy, though, the night he rolled into
the bird-shop with the push to see the lug black
monkey that was chained to the wall. The thing
was about the size of a coal-lumper, and it gibbered
at Griffo when he began pokin’ it with a stick. The
boss offered him a dollar’s-worth of beer if he
could punch it on the nose twice without gettin’
hurt. . ,
“‘Yeh put a bag on his mout, sez Grin, an
I’ll smudder de swine.’
“The boss tied his apron round the animal s
mouth an’ let him off the chain. The push cleared
out through the backdoor, leavin’Griffo in charge.
Nobody see’d what happened exactly, until Griff
hooked an’ upper-cutted like a band conductor.
The gorilla looked refreshed, and wiped Griffo to
sleep with his long, black arm for seventeen
seconds by Micko’s watch.
“ ‘ Time,’ sez the boss.
“ ‘lt was off the elbow,’ sez the push, lookin’ in
at the door. ‘ Where s the beer ? ’
“ Griffo got up slow, hits the boss with a cage-
ful of parrots; throws a wallaby at the monkey,
and clears. He ran to the first pub., had a beer,
came back with his pockets full of metal, and
passed it through the winder.
“ I see him cryin’ one night. He was lyin’ on
the footpath outside Kedfern station, wipin’ his
eyes on the kerb an’ bitin’ at people’s feet as they
went past. His bit of skirt had gone to the
circus with a big nigger. He ’ad follered ’em inter
the show, but when he started to tear up the seats
an’ insult the crowd, a big lion tamer named Carl
threw him among the camels.
“At the Ship Inn, one night, he took posses-
sion of the house an heaved the landlord into the
cellar. The police couldn't persuade him to come
out, so they sent a dawg in to eat him. He
collared the pup by the heels an’ belted the stripes
off the sergeant’s uniform. Then a squad of blue
jackets rolled up an’ started to climb through the
winder. Griff was barricaded inside an’ had
command of the beer alright, an’ when a tar
arrived at him he emptied draught stout down
his neck. As fast as one presented himself, Griff
landed his nine-pounder on the right spot. There
was a great fall of sailorman for the first five
minutes; but yer can’t deal out the beef to a
squad of bluejackets all night. They’d made up
their minds to have him out. Three of ’em scooted
to their gunboat, an’ were back in no time with a
double-reefed torpedo-net on their shoulders.
An’ before Griff could hoist the white flag they
swarmed up in a body an’ had him trussed for
market^ n p ut },j s arms round their necks
an’ told 'em it was his birthday. My word, he
got home late that night. The tars took him
aboard the gunboat, an’ after supper he showed
the whole crew a bit of lightnin’ work with th’
gloves for nothin’. , , .
“ The skipper was a real ton. lie wanted to
make Griffo a V)loomin hadjutant.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


Boils, Pimples, Rashes—all eruptions of the
skin, cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. A splendid
blood-purifier and strength-restorer. Read Mr. J.
Sinkinson’s strong words in its praise. His photo-
graph is also given.
J*
“I suffered for years from indigestion,
and a sort of heat lumps over my body.
The medicines recommended to me did no
good and I only wasted my money on them.
Being strongly advised to try
AYERS
Sarsaparilla
I did so, and was agreeably surprised, as it
did for me all that is claimed for it. After
taking several bottles I was cured entirely
of my complaints. This is some years ago,
but I have continued to take two or three bottles every year, as Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla builds me up and enables me to carry on my duties.”
J. Sinkinson, Unley, S. A,
Keep your blood in good condition, keep your digestion
strong, and keep your nervous system vigorous. Then
you will not suffer from the weakening effects of hot
weather. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla was made for just these
purposes. It cools the blood, tones up the digestive appa-
ratus, puts force into the nervous system. And it fortifies
against hot weather, cold weather, or changeable weather.
It gives strength to ward off disease.
Don’t be deceived by trying some other Sarsapa-
rilla. Don’t experiment with imitations. Hold fast
to the tried and tested Sarsaparilla —AYER’S. A
tonic for all seasons of the year.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO.» Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are a purely vegetable laxative for the whole family.
NAME.
ADDRESS
Send this Coupon filled in, and get our FREE BOOK.
HEBE
OFF
COUPON
THIS
CUT
If
we
could
convince you in this ad. of the value to YOU of our New Free Book,
“ Applied Electricity,” you would gladly pay two guineas for it.
BE STRONG AND VIGOROUS. BE EVERY INCH A MAN.
Men, why will you remain weak, when you can be made strong
and vigorous % Every day men all around you are being restored to
strength and vigor, and you can be as easily cured as they.
During the past five years ten thousand weak men in Australia have
been restored to their full normal vigor by following our advice, and
using the only natural remedy possible for this complaint.
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT
cures men so that they stay cured. It will cure you, if you give it a trial.
Guaranteed in every case undertaken. It cures permanently and abso-
lutely. It pumps a warm soothing current of new nerve life into your
body for hours at a time, while you sleep; and will cure any case that
exists of Broken-down Nerves, Weak Back, Varicocele, Sciatica, Rheuma-
tism, Stomach, or Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Indigestion, Insomnia,
General Debility, and all Weakness of Men or Women.
FREE BOOK
We want yon to read our illustrated Free Book in which we
describe our appliances and show how they cure for all time.
Send us the coupon at the top of this pag-e and we will send
you our Book by return post. Send for it at once.
Call if possible. Advice and Consultation Free.
Shattered Nerves.
two; JINDABYNE, N.S.W.
•. 7- „ s ’ ~u r. Proved a God-send to me, as, after years of suffering: without relief,
t J] re ? months. I had tried many doctors and was ultimately given up,
thafc S' t le doctors in Australia could not cure me.” Someone suggested
try y ,°, Ur B ;] fc ’ . which 1 did- As will remen,her, my legs were in a vfry bad
«^ , « er i o£faC xl SO ? l li Ppledwasone o£ ™y hi P s from Rheumatism that the joint
\as distorted and useless. Now Ido not know what pain is.—Yours sincerely,
D. McGREGOR, Senr.
Dr. McLaughlin Co.
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH.
100 W.
Market St.,
SYDNEY.
WIU.W. CHARLES MAWEMt
'A
m
'A
k
A
I
■4
J,
m
e
fatß
fA^*
r
t
oTE
The
iii
6CKHAMS PILLS
Beautiful Rings
OFFERED BY “THE STORE WHERE QUALITY COUNTS.”
We make the Rings we sell—that is why we guarantee not only the grade of Gold used,
but every stone that is set in them. Making so many Rings, we are able to offer them—
quality for quality—at prices at least a third less than that charged by other stores.
Then, every article we sell is sold with the definite understanding that if not exactly as
represented, you can immediately return it, and we will cheerfully refund your money.
64
Marquise Ring, 16 first-
water Diamonds in 18et.
Gold, with 3 Rubies,
Sapphires or Opals in
the centre, £l2 10s. All
Diamonds, £l6 12s 6d.
75
18cfc. Gold, with 5
Beautiful first water
Diamonds, £l2 10s.
Smaller Stones,
£8 10s. £6 10s.
85
Solid 18ct. Gold, with 2
Diamonds and 1 Sapphire
or Ruby, 27/6
Many other Rings and
Ring Size Card in our
Big Catalogue. Please
write far it.
Marquise Ring’, 18ct,
Gold, set with 12
Diamonds, and 3
Rubies, Sapphires or
Emeralds, £5 ss.
If you. wear f isdacles write for our
Booklet, “THE CARE OF THE EYES.”
sd
George St.,
Corner of the
ROYAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY (Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets).
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the ease may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Arethesame
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
AdtLms—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St., Melbonma,
DR. MA.RTIKT, M.D., Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of Hen and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
w^y
MEN
ANO
WOMEN
SULTING PRACTICE In the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST In the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and tienito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
Asoia ° e
WOMEN;
specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-dav for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
Hay be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6 j or, if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
T|iis magnificent medical work contains 692 pastes Crown
8vo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK,
(Please Mention this paper whin writ.'iijj.)
SYDNEY.


Tn
Tennis Players and Clubs.
Slazenger’s Covered 1908
Championship Tennis Balls
14s. per dozen.
Postage in N.S.W. Is. extra.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
I GMAULTS INDIAN nORFW|
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Concha
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
g&Ba INDIAN CIGAB -
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
fs
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK.
&HE
WOLF
OT
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool 'f*! SEND TO
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
1 J
Sste; '
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney,
and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill (or
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLe.ACEHTS,-W. & j. LEMPRIERE,
506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan and Edwards Peopy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER'S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
MMiiuiiiniii
i '• - 5
Bccomaopßcs
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
»- STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
df
Sold
by
all first-
ela x stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SITUNTEY.
sdf
For Draining Mine Shafts, Flooded Galleries and Levels, there is nothing equal to
SS- E PULSOMETEE STEAM POMP
It has no exhaust steam to be disposed of; needs no special foundation, but may be swung from
a beam or tripod, and raised or lowered as occasion demands without interrupting its operation.
Requires neither engine, belt, oil, or packing—just a steam pipe—easy to instal, easy to operate.
Write for Catalogue. IN FACT, ITS AN IDEAL MINE PUMP.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne,
Agents for Pulsometer
Engineering Co., England.
