

DEW-A-Ix/S WHISKY
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
107 Kent
Sydney,
Mining
Street,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
GRAND PRIX PARIS, 1900
(HIGHEST POSSIBLE AWARD).
HOBART.
■—
jjadley’s Orient |jotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
co.’s WOOD WORKING MACHINERY.
CIRCULAR SAW MILLS, DEAL AND FLITCH FRAMES, LOG FRAMES, PLANING AND MOULDING MACHINES,
BORING MACHINES, TENONING MACHINES &c.
For Particulars apply to Sole Agents — Gibson, Battle & Co., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, No S. \N.
h
Take
back,
I must have -
Fine Apple Brand
ĥ
CHUBB’:
ħ
Resist
FIRE.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Paper Merchants & Wholesale Stationers,
(Temporary Offices) 439 Kent Street, Sydney, 6th April, 1906.
The Manager, Chubb’s Australian Co., Ltd., 164 Clarence Street.
Dear Sirs,—lt affords us much pleasure to advise that the two strong room
doors which were installed by you some years ago at our Clarence-street ware-
house have come through the fire of last Saturday to all intents and purposes
uninjured, and, as far as fire damage is concerned, the contents of the strong
rooms are intact. With compliments, we remain.
Yours faithfully, EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., LIMITED,
(Signed) William P. Dunlop.
THE
EDISWAN
LAMP.
f m
I'S
mon a
m
—‘
Economy in Current.
Equality of Lisht.
THE
£SISON & m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch»
16 Carrington Street
Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depfifc:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE
da ,
u
H
‘TO THY SPEED ADD WINGS.” — Milton.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
the Wings that
Speed to the
Twentieth Century
Motor or Cycle•
JtC
Unsurpassed for Durability <& Comfort. SYDNEY Address: 225 Clarence St.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
sr
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
mm
5P*
A\
TEA!
ASK
FOR
0^
STANDARD PALE ALE
-a
OIL
No Other in
the World .
s'ivnoa
ĥ
SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Economy.
No Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St,
MELBOURNE.
USE . .
DELMO BROS.
“VESUVIO” MACARONI
-I<
z
2-1
LULU
>W
79-81 COPPIN ST
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
UFI inON QDA Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
nCiK-l « V#l Ml GOI.X.I3XT & CO., A.gexxta.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1374.]
[Thursday, June 14, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


IN THE PRESS^
SPECIAL AUSTRALASIAN EDITION.
THE JUNGLE, by UPTON SINCLAIR.
A NOVEL WITH A PURPOSE. ONE OP THE MOST POWERFUL AND TERRIBLE STORIES EVER WRITTEN
ALL ABOUT CHICACO MEAT-PACXINC METHODS. Price 3/6, ClotH, postage 6d
r,y^ r h U ?L lt n eUnpreCedented - d , en i a l nd r>° r consequent on the disclosures made by Upton Sinclair and
proved by the Commission appointed by President Roosevelt, under arrangement with the American Publishers we
are preparing locally a special Australian Edition. Printers and Binders are working night and day id !i«\ i
be ready in a week or so. Orders are now being registered, and will be despatched in rotation. > P '
GEORGE ROBERTSOM & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For thb Curb of
Bronchitis !
axd Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
h
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of t
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
savs
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.
MT HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Registered). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POIBOUOUB DRUC. Sold by all Chemists, in tins, 1/8, or
•om the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stamps. Sydney
tepot : 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Street W., London,
THE RED PAGE.
Resuming, then :
It was Whitman who wrote that
the watchword of the Future will be
En Masse. But the watchword of
the Present will be always En Moi. In phi-
losophy’s Arbitration Court, as in Sydney’s,
the basis of every common rule must be ego-
istic. There is question not of Might and
Should, but only of Is and Can. And till a
man can jump out of his skin, the Me-in-
Me, the Me-in-You, stand—not “like”
perishing “stone” in the query-Gordon’s
quatrain—not even like the query-permanent
law which governs the stone’s perishing—
but like truths more deeply rooted than
these : that a point is either fixed or mov-
able, that lines are either a boundary or no-
boundary, that the content of a mathematical
figure cannot vary.
The equal truism that Not-I is not I ends
the other-fellow argument. Whatever the
motive, whatever the effect, my uncompelled
deed belongs to Me, is egoistic. And a deed
compelled is not my merit. Egoism is my
only basis of virtue. If it flower in profit to
another the profit must still be mine, what-
ever appears. When I voluntarily sacrifice
myself to You, the sacrifice pays Me : it
must : since I have decided it is better to
give than to withhold. Better for You—
possibly ; better for me—assuredly.
The virtue of Altruism thus comfortably
abolished, see how the virtue of Egoism
accompanies it to limbo. For being what I
am, a momentary link in the universal chain,
how can my deeds be mine ? They belong
to the unending procession of causes in the
past—to stars and suns, earth and moon, to
my myriad ancestry and my life-environ-
ment, to books and men and this morning’s
breakfast. All these things sum in me ; and
when I decide for virtue it is because there
is no other decision open : my majority-ver-
dict was given already by the inevitable
Past. How shall I claim merit, then, for
acts which I cannot help or hinder ?
Virtue is therefore a myth 1 By no
means ; but this is her pretty paradox :
She belongs always to You, and never to
Me. My virtuous act or aspiration may
take its place in your chain of controlling
causes: yours in mine: it has merit only
when it exerts influence, and this merit is
never the agent’s. We might trace it farther
and deeper ; but our most ardent boundary-
rider (named Bill, by the way), who will
pore oyer this on Sunday three months
hence, is not sure he sees the sun through
the mist; and for my own part, I am not
sure either.
Ten lines to clinch. The only virtue is
community-virtue : the individual’s is null.
We are glow-worms who shine if “it is our
nature to ” : the light is neither creditable
nor discreditable, but may be useful. When
I praise You for yielding a good Block light
[Mem. —See if Block advertises; if not,
put the canvasser on him] it is because good
lights pay the community (and inferentially
Me ; or, being free to leave it, I would leave
it).
HAVING thus mounted a step on a
ricketty but not unsea worthy ladder
of values, we can proceed to apply
the ladder to Ibsen—concerning
whom our most devoted bullock-driver (not
named Jim, by the way : the floor of his
waggon, according to Ashton Murphy, is
carpeted with several years of Bulletins: he
rests upon many, and for recreation takes
one from the bottom of the mattress : forgot
to ask what he did with his loading) will
be inquiring, after the noble example of
Lady Jersey, Who is this Ibsen and whence
has he sprung ?
He sprang from Norway over the foam ;
he died the other day aged 78 ; and his
blood mixed Danish, Norsk, German, and
Scottish at least. “ One of the conclusions
to which I have come,” he wrote to Brandes,
“ is that there are very strong traces in me
of my Scotch descent.” Agreed: modern
ideas allowed for, Ibsen re-created the Scotch
conventicle in the terms of French comedy.
And England has once more proscribed the
clandestine preacher, the dissenter from
faith Established..
Moralist and dramatist Ibsen was called :
the fit word was moraliser. His characteristic
plays are preachments with an implicit moral
stressed so savagely that it becomes explicit,
detachable : it issues like a blow. He re-
garded himself as a man “called of God” :
when seeking a pension he wrote that “ It is
not for a livelihood free from trouble that I
am here fighting, but for that life’s work
which I steadfastly believe and know God
has laid upon me...”
He got his pension with the pleasant
name of “Digtergage” (Poet’s Wages)
from the Norwegian Parliament, and straight-
way proceeded to become the most
unpopular man in his country—simply,
he alleges, by holding a mirror to
his country s nature. “I am in favour of
nothing. I have no remedies to suggest,
■“ly plays are not doctrinary. I simply
describe life as it is in Norway-—the most
unmoial country in Europe.” Here it seems
that the dramatist was basely denying the
preacher; for if Nora does not shriek for
the freedom of woman, if Ghosts gives no
opinion on the sins of the fathers, what have
we been discussing all these years, or refus-
ing to discuss ? Not technic, assuredly,
though it may be as technician that I’s
last word will be spoken.
Readers should not forget that Ibsen’s
dramas are for the stage, not for the study.
That is why actors (worth their salt) value
them : the plot moves, the characters live,
the mummer feels that he is portraying flesh
and blood, not a literary puppet. Archer’s
versions, stiff and uncompromising, must be
realised to be valid. With his own intense
vitality Ibsen made his people live.
His power to set them in motion he owed
to close study, hard work. In his years as
stage director at Bergen “ he laboured ter-
ribly. ’ There, producing play after play,
he gained from French models the science
which French critics admire, and which in
his Northern mind took such solid shape
that his rank with the first of playwrights
is indisputable. The Pillars of Society may
for a play which in reading seems
obvious and clnmsy, and on the boards is
shaped into living fact.
The content of Ibsen is another matter.
He suggests furiously, but he never con-
cludes. That is not his office ; but it is his
office to pave the way to a conclusion. A
play, like any other piece of art, should be
brought into relation with the human uni-
verse : it must, if it is to last. That
means that the characters must be, not
figures merely, not even representative
figures of an age or country, but human
types. Here Ibsen fails : his people are
individual, his method is episodical. He
is confined to statement, is never symbolic.
Considering his method, one might find one
word for it— stark. It is bare and brutal
and strong, and after that—what ? It ex-
presses Ibsen’s ideas.
To express one’s-self—fully—freely : that,
lies near the root of his gospel; and at least
he followed his gospel. It is a hard gospel
for convention-ridden civilization : Ibsen
was a hard man : he had a hard life : his
plays are “hard” plays. They hold his
early misery, his manhood’s struggle : no
“flowers of the heart ” grow in them. To
their narrowness their “ headiness” must be
added as a disqualification in the final
rivalry : they want the impression of Fate,
and they want sympathy—the sole compen-
sation. They are neither with the gods nor
with mortals—they are one man, Ibsen.
To stand alone : it was his early need,
and became his later consolation. Aspira-
tion, he alleged it—strangling solitude by
embracing. By dint of living and work-
ing, he proved half his thesis : he suc-
ceeded, gained wealth and fame : people
stood to watch him in the street, and
the flowers in his sick-room were paid for by
Government. Yet he was never popular.
“ Ibsen we admire ; but Bjornsson we love,”
said a Norwegian lady—Bjornsson emotional
and patriotic, intellectually Ibsen’s inferior,
maybe ; humanly his superior, surely. One
cannot call Ibsen’s a life of fruitless egoism ;
but barren egoism ?—there is room for
dialectic. Art without heart comes peril-
ously close to Dead Sea fruit.
And we have been forgetting not-Jim,
who may by now have some inkling of what
Ibsen was, but is doubtfully enlightened as
to “what he done.” It is easier to quote
The Morning Appeal's (Carson City, Nevada,
U.S.A.) criticism of Ghosts, and to say Ghosts
is one loaf in the Ibsen batch. Here, then :
Ibsen’s Norwegian play of “Ghosts,” with one
setting of scenery, no music, and three knocks
with a club on the floor to raise the curtain, was
presented last evening. The play is certainly a
moral hair-raiser, and the stuffing is knocked out
of the Decalogue at every turn.
Mrs. Alving, the leading lady, has married a
moral monstrosity in the shape of a spavined rake,
and hides it from the world. She wears a pleasant
smile and gives society the glad hand, and finally
lets go all holds when her husband gets gay with
the hired girl and gives an old tar three hundred
plunks to marry her and stand the responsibility
for the expected population
Oswald, the mother’s only boy, is sent to Paris
to paint views for marines, and takes kindly to
the gay life of the capital, where the joy of living
is the rage, and families are reared in a section
where a printer running a job office solely on
marriage certificates would hit the poorhouse with
a dull thud.
Regina, the result of Mr. Alving’s attentions to
the hired girl, also works in the family and falls
m love with the painter boy on his return from
Paris. They vote country life too slow, and plan
to go to Pans and start a family. The doting
mother gives her consent, and Pastor Manders
who is throwing fits all through the. play, has a
spasm. The boy on being informed that the girl
of his choice is his half-sister throws another, his
mamma having also thrown a few in the other act.
Engstrand, who runs a sort of sailors’ and
soldiers’ canteen, sets fire to an orphanage, and
the boy, who has inherited a sort of mayonnaise-
dressing brain from his awful dad, tears about
the stage a spell, breaks some furniture, and
upsets the wine.
The players handled the sticky mess as well as
could be expected, all being excellent actors. As
a sermon on the law of heredity the play is great,
but after seeing it we are glad" to announce that
Haverly’s Minstrels will relieve the Ibsen gloom
next Monday night.
This leaves absolutely nothing more to say
about Ibsen—from that point of view.
♦
JN the Spring, it appears, a Briton’s
fancy lightly (?) turns to thoughts of
books. And in the Autumn also,
when the British tradition says there
shall be holidays, and a flight from the stag-
nant stew of London, and a wandering up
and down “ the Continent ” like a tombless
spectre answering contemptuously to the
name of ’Arry. Autumn books are
to read in the Autumn holidays. But
even the Briton does not know what
Spring books are for; though his
literature arrives in battalions at two sea-
sons, and at other two may but sidle along
with the air of a British poor relation. We,
being inferior Britons, humbly stand under
the spout and accept in our no-season what
is dropped over the eaves of the superior
world.
In our mind’s eye, Horatio, we can see
one Britisher publisher after another—like
nice little snowdrops—putting a timid head
above the wintry surface of tradition, and.
demanding “ Is it time, brother ? is it time?”
Apparently it is time . . . for a bevy of
Spring novels invite us to contemplate
Eternity. There is a certain bleakness in
the aspect of Eternity.
S
Pass with a premonitory shudder to Miss
Arabella Kenealy, who has such a swishing
name for a Court presentation. Already Miss
Kenealy has achieved moderate popularity,
and it is hoped she is too clever to achieve
more. She is a little like our loveable
Ouida, without the loud pedal and the
squeak ; but then she is a little like Mrs.
Wood—and Miss Braddon and if only a
little likeness to Miss Corelli could be found
one would decide at once that all women are
the same woman (that fundamental identity
of the sex being at present merely a theory
which our calmer years shall be devoted [by
Royal permission] to establishing).
Miss Arabella Kenealy, whose name still
demands that her critic shall walk delicately
for fear of treading on her train, has written
An American Duchess (Lend., Unwin ; 2s.
6 d.) It is not precisely a book for a godly
household, and one reflects that godly house-
holds must miss a deal (which, of course,
will be made up by-and-by, as has been
rumoured). Be it added quickly that the book
is not for an ungodly household either. For
a Laodicean household, whose soul is saved
through its intellect, the expenditure of
half-a-crown is (with the fullest sense of
solemn responsibility) recommended.
Miss Kenealy is clever, shrewd, keen,
hard ; and her feminine unreticences are
once or twice close to vulgarities. And her
grammar slips here and there, and her
boomerang “recoils” instead of returning—■
and in fact there is j ust enough imperfection
in her work to gratify one’s necessary sense
of (inherited) superiority. An author’s
peccadilloes give a reader final assurance of
her worth. “Her,” we say, in savouring
foretaste of the millennial day when all
women shall write novels, all novels shall be
written by women, and literary man shall
revert to his primitive attitude of a Sultan
condescending to smile meditatively over
the trap-door to the Bosphorus.
And here, the expenditure of half-a-crown
once recommended, critical duty to (let a
plush footman announce her) Miss Arabella
Kenealy might be thought to end. But for
an unhappy contingency that watches, dry-
lipped, the perspective figure of an Uncle
who is not “ Steele Rudd’s. ” Add then,
that the story is a rattling story (“rattling”
is the word), where nevertheless you cannot
skip from incident to incident because the
author interposes passages of observation
(keen, in its field) and psychology (shrewd,
to its depth), and in one way and another
has so much to say about the Problem
that she may be read again. It is the
novel of commerce so artfully manufactured
that it wears like literature—almost; and it
shows you how the true hearts of the British
aristocracy (artful) may beat an ill-tempered
tune, and what horrid people come from
America (artful). The East Lynne echo in-
troduces a child happily but if the book
were not a little better than clever less would
be said about it. Yet one doubts citation
can show but cleverness : I
Women never have, never do, and never Itwi]
make common cause against men. The cinly
person against whom they forget their norjma
attitude of rivalry to make common cause is /the
beautiful woman who attracts man.
The man ot society... never forgets the first
time he stepped upon a woman’s train, or in put-
ting on her wrap ruffled the carefully arranged
curls at the nape of her neck. Like a burnt child,
the scorch of her eye remains in his memory to
warn him.
Two unlucky ! Try again :
Like all foxy-faced red-haired men, he had a
quick eye for a good-looking woman.
That is better : that is Miss K. We like
her to spy out the characteristics of foxy-
faced red-haired men, and to add up their
adjectives : we have red-haired contributors.
Later Miss K’s man weeps /—and not very
improbably. Admit that some skill is needed
to make a f-f r-h man weep not very im-
probably. Yes! “tears were trickling
sparsely”—only “sparsely”: our black-
haired contributors would have been more
liberal—“ down his hot dry face, and falling
into his red beard. It was so long since he
had shed tears that he did not know what to
do with them,.” (There is a touch of r-h
nature for you.) “His handkerchief re-
mained unsought in his pocket.” (See the
feminine stress on Manners—and Clothes.)
“ He let them, trickle
But unltissed lips soon lose their curves.
That also is better—and true—and a door
to the extensive treasury of “Carpe diem”
remarks which the philosophic gentleman of
literature (possibly with an eye to his
personal requirements) has addressed to the
dilatory lady. “Lips unkissed will lose
their curves ” : it would make a refrain for
a blue-china ballade : and are there rhymes
enough ? The serves clan—nearly near
enough : observes, deserves, reserves, etc. :
pass them, and swerves, nerves, verve’s:
enough with a squeeze, and you can find
others, the apt unexpected. 10s. 6d., then,
for the best /ballade—form strict —received
before July 11. It would be courteous to
suggest the inspiration. Take this, then, for
Envot.
Arabella ! Mary Jane !
Cursed is the mouth that swerves :
Heed the ominous refrain,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves l
The expert will note that we have left the
hardest rhyme for him : that is the preroga-
tive of We, and helps to make editors cheer-
ful, poor devils !
♦
Over in Springfield, Mass., U.S.A., where
people run two blocks round to dodge a can of
preserved meat, and many an aspiring news editor
is writing the headlines of his life (like these);
MUMMIED MEAT.
A CEMETERY IN A CAN.
SMOTHERED HIS SISTER IN THE SOUP
for American Households.
CHICAGO’S CANNED CORPSE COMMISSION
MAKES GHASTLY REVELATIONS.
—over there, over there—it appears that Web-
ster’s - Dictionary - with - Australasian - supplement
has its headquarters, and spends time recklessly
in search of new words. Nowadays a diction-
ary is nothing without new words ; the more the
profitabler, And when Brown advertises proudly
that his dictionary contains 100,000, there is
nothing for Robinson to do (with a mere 99,000)
but commence a fierce campaign against the
validity of Brown’s novelties, while straining
every clerk to find a few more which (“in the
dusk, with the light behind them ”) may pass
for real English.
This highly-coloured exordium is designed as
preface to the solemn fact that the Webster’s-
Dictionary people do really keep an attentive eye
on the growth and progress of the English lan-
guage, and one of their clerks does really read
The Bulletin every week, and report to his supe-
rior officer anything that looks like a new Austra-
lian word in good usage—our awful responsibility!
Then these words are pasted on slips and sent to
Webster’s-Dictionary people in Australia for
inquiry : and thus we are called upon to stand and
deliver reasons for the coinage of our idle fancies.
Still more seriously, Webster’s wants to know
things and words, and Bulletin contributors may
help them in the interests of peace and no perjury.
Hypon.tef.s.—A 1903 verse-writer referred to “ quilt-
like hyponjees,” which presumably rhymed with “China
seas.” But what does it mean ?
Backslanging.—Barrfere and Leland give some ground
for believing that there was an Australian convict usage
of that word, derived from English thieves’ usage, to
denote a habit of sneaking-up to a homestead with intent
to beg or steal food or other things. Surely, if that usage
ever existed, the word is obsolete now'. Can anyone
prove the contrary ?
Breakback. —Webster’s people have an idea that this is
Australian for a long glass of beer, or a long measure of
liquor. Does the usage exist anywhere? Did it ever
exist ?
Crow-eater. —Affectionately' applied to the South Aus-
tralian. Anybody know any other meaning ? Anybody
know exactly how the usage originated?
Bag-swag.—What precisely is a bag-swag?
80-yangs.—Anybody know the derivation ?
We believe that is all, and do please remember
that Springfield, Mass., has an agonised eye on
your veracity.
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS for Sporting Material.
MICK
SIMMONS
ĥ
THE GLOBE
D.B.B.L.Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
Lest on
Daiy
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
ħ
MICK 6IMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge top lever. steelextension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage jn.s.w., ks ,
LESTON^DALY S CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
LESTON?I§aTy;%Vs ’dlb!bl® GU“ gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, 6b 2d " '
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bo .
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
£3
j «njn >!
1 t
■ '
mm
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.YV.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen's
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D B B L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
h
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
PRICE
' I '
; 1 |
1... 1
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
q UN 12-gauge top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both ’choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib, _
Deelev-Ede-e natent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2?in cartfidsres GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the JJ-f ft 4A e
finest-quahtT Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State * 1 * 1 «
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
'THE MAINZ'
Pifle
iSheu/inp Pifle Apprf
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2}lb.
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE —N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS
ĥ
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2|lb 14m fifl
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d 1
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2flb. IQq flfl
Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d 1
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3£lb. Postage— -t Cq Qd
N.S.W., is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d M
Stevens’
“Little Ki-ag.
ħ
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag," 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
sight with V sight if required, 6d extra ; length over all 36in., <)1 -
weight about 3ilb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W.; 2s 8d Inter-State)..
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing-Post Free.
Folding Orchard Gun,
410 g.
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g. Bide lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length overall 38£in,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9 N.S.W. ;
3/2 Interstate.
35s
h
VVe can now
supply these
g-uns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
ĥ
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
kss
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long, or 18 long Rifle Cartridges), weight 6Jlb
1897 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight 6Jlb. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d)
£3
£4
isa b
a. ivi ivaixjnxrx-x" iodnt.
Gun Cartridges.
per 100
6s Od
6s 6d
6s 6d
6s 6d
8s 6d
10s 6d
11s 9d
11s Od
Cartridges can now bo sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1, Gd, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s Gd, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
„ 22 Long
~ 22 Long Ilifle ..
~ 22 Extra Long.,
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 6d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is Gd 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
LAWN TENNIS.
H
bmw
ħ
' OPt>*Y ("laNBICAP STANBARb ASCOT
3/6 6/- 7/3 2/6
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d incer-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Full Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
.. 13s 6d
18s
Renshaw ..
Demon
Whitehouse .. 25s
“ E.G.M.” .. .. 30s
“Doherty” .. 35s
TENNIS BALLS. doz
Grey or Terra Cotta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 15s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODB
w
BOXING GLOVES.
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.VV. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Cloth, 5s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “C. 8.8.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s6d, 21s, 25sset
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Soz., 15s 6d set
h
MICK SIMMONS
The “ARMY,” 18s 6d
PUNCHING BALLS
(Postage on ordinary ball, 9d. N.S.W., Is 2d Interstate).
Complete. Each.
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, soft tan leather, cover, 1 piece top, and welted
seams. These balls are'very light, suitable for fast work 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s
“ ARMY,” Regulation Style, finest selected calf-skin, double stitched, welted
seams, reinforced throughout, very fast 10s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s
“ARMY,” Pear Shape, else similar to above 27s 6d, 35s
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, made from heavy selected cow-hide, very strong,
suitable for club use 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
“ EXPERT,” Medium Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for
ceiling attachment, made with fine grain leather, 1 piece top,
reinforced 8s 6d, 14s, 21s
“ EXPERT,” Regulation Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment, made with solid cow hide 16s 6d, 20s, 21s
THE
ASCOT
ĥ
ħ
h
Mick Simmons
ASCOT, No. 1, Pol. Wood Box, 4 horses, 5s ; post 9d N.S.W., Is 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 2, Pol. Wood Box, G horses, 7s 9d ; post Is N.S.W., Is 8d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 8, Pol. Mahogany Case, G horses, 11s ; post Is N.S.W., lsBd Inter-State
ASCOT, No. 4, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, larger, 13s 6d ; post Is 3d N.S.W.,
2s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 5, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, lined tray, 18s 6d; post Is 9d
N.S.W., 3s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 8 horses, sup., 27s 6d ; post 2s N.S.W.
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
mick
SIMMONS,
Hay market, Sydney


HEALTH AND HAPPINESS.
LIVE WELL, LIVE LONG, and LIVE HEALTHILY.
When men are weak and practically disabled in life, they should avoid disaster which may end in Death. New Vigor, new Life, new
Strength, and unlimited Physical Power can be given by adopting for a short period the Electro-Medical Treatment or the judicious
uses of Electricity and Medicine. People are cured daily by this system who were otherwise classed as “INCURABLE.”
REM ASKS.
Aft e have from time to time demonstrated, as leading physiologists and pathologists in the scientific world, the fact that the
permanent healing of grievous health-destroying diseases lies in the possession of a perfect knowledge of the cause and
phenomena concerning them, and the accurate methods of treating them. Any practitioner can prescribe for a complaint and
treat it with that professional care embodied in set formula. But every practitioner cannot heal or cure a disease. Honestly
people suffer from chronic „q„i . tlW f end “ Tor ’ and unsuccessfully fail. Everywhere men and women try their doctors, receiving little benefit. Millions of
Ld cal manCANNOT fiS w.™mqSitSf,? 7? cured of them, because they do not appeal to the right sources. What the average
sp^iSino^ge? can. ThisTs ™vFn FORMULAS and obsolete forms of treatment, the SPECIALIST, with his new ideas and modes of treatment, assisted
BY THOUSANDS OP UNIMPEACHABLE TESTIMONIALS
stomach °‘ * te FREEMAN “" d WALLACE INSTITUTE, in cases undertaken (and which they guarantee to cure) of nerve and muscular disorders,
Patients OCCUPYING* HIGHEST^PIISTTTONS^^ 1 I ?‘! doridao l l V the employment of Electro-Therapeutic agents, is a new system, qualified by singular success.
A “ NAL WEA ™ PILES -
AN EXQUISITE
EULOGY.
4
MR. W. MAHER, of Millerton,
New Zealand, in sending us his
photograph in grateful praise for
the cure we made in his case of GENE-
RAL BREAKDOWN and NERYE
WEAKNESS, says :
“I am pleased to say you
have made me perfectly well .
1 am quite a new man since
coming to New Zealand; in-
deed, I tvas never better in
my life. I have gained 10lb.
in weight, and am still gain-
ing. My friends tell me that
I look younger and better
than I did five years ago. 99
Signed, IV. MAHER.
If you suffer from Insomnia, Func-
tional Heart Trouble, Epilepsy,
Hysteria, Weakness, Kidney Dis-
order, Aching 1 Back, Rheumatism,
Uric Acid in Blood, Sciatica or
Neuralgia, ELECTRICITY, with
reconstructive remedies, will soon put
you right. ELECTRICITY GOES
RIGHT TO THE SPOT.
Am
■
i-mm
m ■
mm
-V.
Mr. W. MAHER.
Two Distinguished
Tenors.
4
MR. PHILIP NEWBURY was so
benefited by a course of the
Electro-Medical treatment that,
in a letter to the SPECIALISTS, he
says:
“A. few weeks’ course of your
Electro-Medical Treatment has
benefited me greatly. For years I
suffered from Uric Acid in the
Flood, with liheumatic tendencies,
bat, thanks to your Electric treat-
ment, I am notv completely cured.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ -PHILIP NEWBUIIY.”
♦
MR. CHARLES KENNINGHAM,
writing to the Specialists, de-
clares :
“For years 1 suffered from In-
somnia. Your Electric treatment
was recommended to me, and I
consistently adopted it, with the
result that I am now sleeping
reasonably, and my general health
and appetite are much improved . (
“ Yours truly, (
“CHARLES KENNINGHAM.” I
Yo„“Z!“S &, Improvement is rapid and certain,
the muscular system, equalising? the 'circulation improving the 3 blood stream ft <dr It fl acts afc onoe °, n the nervous centres, animating the nerves, re-strengthening
healthy and strong, AS NATURE INTENDED TO RE A ,nn„ ; T the f h R m ' « tren^ ie " s aild regulates the beating of the heart, and makes a man or a woman
PHYSICAL TRIAL that he cannot confer. i.T¥J?mSL, i'S SJ& £±““ An ' B « 8 LOSI B ™ENGTH anTfiSno
REMEMBER! WE DO NOT CURE ALL DISEASES,
BUT WE CURE ALL WE UNDERTAKE TO TREAT.
, Tf yol f ca ? n °t visit us personally, write the symptoms that trouble you, and you will receive an
of HOME TREATMENT, „ a P«„ s al of ~ce,ved T, y ii- paints i„"Sl ™±S”f LS^SS,
CONSULTATIONS AND ADVICC FRE€
CREDENTIALS.
lV IN n E „ W 0^ S T/r 1 ? er^ fi i? lte ' S 1 0f Qualification and Registration of the Physician-in-
Chief by the Medical Boards of New South Wales. Victoria, South Australia
Eng!and and America, open for public inspection at the Institute. Late Honfmopathm
Hospital, Melbourne, and British Imperial Army Medical Staff P tmc
gj* DOMINIC CORRIGAN PhysicLn to the late Queen, speaking of the
1 entert *' n “ h ’" h D - Wallace iLepA Shi
“ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES,”
CONTAINING 700 pages of medical literature, 150 full and half-page medical illustra-
tions, fully explains, in the chapter devoted to Electricity, the general laws governing-
tne application of electricity to the human frame. An exhaustive exposition of the svstems
employed m the doctrine of Electro-Medication is given, showing the benefits to be "derived
from a judicious use of the Electric Bath, Battery, etc. The uses of these are
individually explained. This valuable medical work is posted free to any sufferer ap-
THE FREEMAN and WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL *
SURGICAL INSTITUTE
OPPOSITE
HYDE PARK,
Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney,
Howard Freeman, Di
Dr. Richard Wallace,
Dr. Elizabeth White,
rector and Principal of the Institutes.
M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Ohief.
iI.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
And at MELBOURNE.
IMPORTANT.
°“ r diSP “' e J iS , H tHe Federal Postal authorities having been amicably settled.
Patients may


A cough is a danger signal. You
should heed its -warning promptly.
Begin at once, and take regular
doses of
ylyer’s
%herri{ 9eetcral
ĥ
ħ
All serious lung troubles
begin with a common
cold. A cold in the
throat easily passes to
the bronchial tubes>
and you have bron-
chitis, leading pos-
sibly to pneu-
monia or con-
sumption. Stop
your cold before it goes down into
tbe cliest. When you bring a bottle
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral into the
house you bring with it relief, good
cheer, hope, and sunshine. It is a
standard and unrivaled remedy for
colds and coughs. !
There are many substitutes and imi-
tations. Beware of them and of so-
called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYEII’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, MaBS.,U. S. A.
The first
p 1 for the preservation of the
M-sJjCIILIcII teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERTS
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
PROOF
—*— *—+—-™»
Harris & Ethel Streets,
Parramatta, N.S.W.,
October sth, 1905.
“My little boy, Jack, had
at various times many
chest complaints, namely,
bronchitis, croup, pul-
monary catarrh, and
diphtheria; from the lat-
ter he was left with a
very weak throat. Scott’s
Emulsion has completely
restored him to good
health and strength, he
eats and sleeps well, just
as a boy in perfect health
should do. Scott’s Emul-
sion agreed well with
him/’
(Mrs.) Possie Rooney.
+ +
Many thousands of similar letters have
reached us since Scott’s Emulsion of
cod liver oil and hypophosphites of lime
and soda was first introduced 30 years
since. The original Scott process, now
world-famous, has been constantly im-
proved, and to-day
Scott's Emulsion
is unquestionably the best of all
cod liver oil emulsions, and the
most pleasant, digestible, and
effective form of cod liver oil in
existence.
9000 doctors, 2000 nurses, and 300
hospitals constantly use SCOTT'S.
+ ——+
If these proofs prompt you to try Scott's
do not hesitate to write to us for a free
trial bottle (enclosing 4d. for postage and
mentioning this paper). SCOTT &
hOWNE, Limited, 483, Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. &£&&&&&&&&&&
IRISH «lOSS
_ nR -The best remedy-
FOR— INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
I Ask for Bonn 1 ng ton’s
and see that you get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
w
cr
utfsTore
BASED UPON THE WELL KNOWN'MONTSERRAT’II ME FRUIT JUICE.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
h
Wo don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price J5l
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JBI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/0 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDQRFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos anti all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
hh
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
M GIFTS
New Season’s Genuiue
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOXR AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
CRegd.;
/?r77rsf,,
□
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE TKC THE SELVEDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brown.
He was but a lowly minion,
And his name it was Smith —or Brown.
He had faith in his own opinion,
And a job as a clerk in town ;
And he would not rest —tho’ they gave him best
And a harp and a blazing crown.
He worked for a sordid mortal
While he scuffled about the earth ;
And the gods at the golden portal
They were filled with a godlike mirth
At the tiny gnat in the big top hat,
And its buzzing of Life and Birth.
There was naught in the Outer Spaces;
There was naught in the Earth below—
From the Dead Sure Things for the races,
To the Dawn and the Sunset Glow,
In this Life or Death while he had his breath—
There was naught that he Did Not Know.
And, the Seer, he revelled in solving
All the wherefore of unsolved things,
Of the Earth that had been revolving
For some fifty billion Springs ;
Then the sky was rent and an angel went
To Smith with a pair of wings.
There are whispers of “Goth !” and “Vandal!”
There’s a feeling of rage and scorn ;
And it’s really a fearful scandal,
And they wish he had ne’er been born.
But they flap their wings when he tells them
things
At the Gates of Eternal Morn.
VIC.
KODAK.
Nero.
Readers and rivals, lend me all your ears !
I come to whitewash Nero, not to praise him.
His was the first of criminal careers—
Unless the lurid record of his years
Wrongly pourtrays him.
Slain at the age of rising thirty-two,
He filled the cup of vice to overflowing;
Much that was better left unknown he knew,
And what he didn’t know, if tales be true,
Was not worth knowing.
But as a youth he was not wholly bad.
When he was crowned men said to one another,
“ By Jove, a worthy and a studious lad 1 ”
And so he was until —oh, passing sad !
He lost his mother.
Oh, not to trespass on an orphan’s grief,
’ I’was from that time he took to paths of error,
Thinking, no doubt, that change would bring
relief,
Made it a habit and became, in brief,
A holy terror.
T say no more, but, though his deeds were dark,
They hold a pathos that no crime can smother.
Young Nero would have doubtless made his mark
But for the fact that he, in boyish lark,
Murdered his mother.
That was the turning point. While she was there
He lived comparatively free from scandal.
He knew the sweetness of a mother’s care,
Felt the correcting arm that did not spare
A mother’s sandal.
Who knows ? Perhaps had she been near to guide,
His reign had been less lamentably shady;
But on the morning of his regal pride,
With disconcerting suddenness she died—
The poor old lady.
N.S.W.
W. PEAKE.
The Baldhead’s Bequest.
Tell me the bold, bold story
Of women and love and wine ;
Of skirts in their frilly glory,
Of hose that are feminine.
Tell me the tales that tickle—
Tell me the yarns of sin;
Of ladies fair and fickle,
Whom the bad men chase and win !
Tell me the story slowly,
That I may catch its jest;
For the ears of the old unholy
Grow dull and lose their zest—
Aye, the yarn that’s narrated slowly
Suits us old baldheads best!
Pass me the rich cigars now,
Ring for some more red wine;
Tell me here under the stars now
The stories superfine.
Stop, for the waitress cometh—•
Wait till the minx is gone;
Now fill me a deep, full bumper—
You can tell me the tales anon.
I remember a splendid story
That a chap once told to me;
’Twas out at a midnight swarree—
And a girl was on his knee.
What was the story’s kernel ?
Something about divorce;
Something about the eternal
Woman who Did, of course.
Strange how the old yarns moulder,
Back in the ancient’s brain ;
Strange how the years grow colder—
Will someone please explain ?
Strange how we can’t remember
The tales that we used to tell;
Why do the years dismember
The tales that we once knew well ?
VIC.
G.H.
Frivolous Verses.
It’s pathetic these days to wander into
N.S.W. Divorce Court and listen to the querulous
complainings of Justice Simpson because theLegis-
laturehas given District Court judges powerin coun-
try places to hear divorce causes. Mr. Simpson con-
siders it something little short of godless irrever-
ence that anyone but himself should decide
as to whether Mary Jane really did what
she oughtn’t or Peter Paul has legally deserted
Seraphina Ann. “ Divorce cases,” he moans,
“are the most important that come before the
courts, and here is the Legislature entrust-
ing them to mere District Court judges.”
(Mr. Simpson used to be a mere District
Court judge once himself, but that’s a long
time ago.) Barristers, with tongues in their
cheeks, sympathise deeply with his lacerated
Honor, and optimistically forecast that the Legis-
lature, as soon as it sees the direful results of
allowing divorce cases to be tried before anyone
but Mr. Simpson, will amend the Act. But Mr.
Simpson takes no comfort, and comes back to the
subject again and again, and daily shudders at the
thought of what is happening through divorce
cases being dealt with by other hands. And really
nothing is happening.
Grant Hervey wants to know :
What is the Alien Immigration Act for ? A few minutes
ago, a furtive sort of knock sounded at the door. lam
an authority on knocks, and concluded that the door-
walloper was in the religious line. So I sat tight. But
all the females in the house were busy girding on their
fine raiment. So, when the knockist had tapped
three times, I went m 3 self. The moment I opened the
door, ni3 r hand was grabbed by something. Its face was
a seething mass of whiskers, surmounted by an enormous
conical black hat. It had a dishevelled black brolly,
baggy black pants, a square yard of black-covered Scrip-
ture, a huge black note-book, and a very black —and
greasy—coat. And It itself, as far as I could see between
the interstices of the whiskers, was darker than the repu-
tation of a land-agent. Hauled my hand away from the
murky circumstance, and asked what It wanted. It un-
furled the voluminous document, and remarked “ Jesa
Karise-a .you, Jesa Karise-a me. Alleesame Clistiana, my
word. You reada book.” I inspected the opus.
Upon the fly-leaf, in semi-illegible characters, it
bore the following: “The bearer, Callil Ramchunder
Boolis, is a native of Bagdad. He is going round the
world collecting funds to build a Christian church upon
the site of the ancient capital of Chaldea. You are
requested to contribute to that worthy project.” I
handed back the encyclopaedia, which was half full of
names ; and remarked that, owing to Socialistic legis-
lation, I had sent all my money to Cephalonia, and there-
fore could not give anything. Callil looked sad, but
promptly dragged another paper out of the huge Bible
that he carried. This document was an immigration-ex-
emption certificate. It stated that Boolis, Esq., had
permission to ravage the Commonwealth for twelve
months. Returned it, and again stated that the insane
projects of J. C. Watson had rendered me penniless.
Ramchunder looked despondent, but hauled 3 r et another
parchment out of himself. This last was a statement by
H.B.M. Consul at Antioch, to the effect that the Rev.
Callil was a devout Christian, and that all God-fearing
persons should aid him, &c. Returned this also ; and
reiterated that, owing to the machinations of the
Labor party, I had filed my schedule for a far-
thing in the £. I then said good-day and en-
deavored to shut the door. Boolis girded on
an agonised expression. He grabbed again at m3 r paw,
and remarked, “ You gibbita shillin’, gibbita seex-apena,
gibbita tree-apena, gibbita one-apena!” The last word
was a shriek of anguish, but it didn’t move me. “ Nary
gibbita,” I said. “ Now clear out, please ; I’ve got some
work to do.” Archdeacon Boolis almost sobbed upon
the mat. “ You no gibbita ? " I shook my thinkery. He
then took off his conical cupola, and made a fervent
peroration in Belshazzar’s language. “ You gibbita
now?” he said, when through. “No, I won’t,” I replied.
Bishop Callil sprang up hurriedly, and grabbed his brolly
and other weapons, and said that I was Lost. Then he
evaporated like a quantity of black steam.


High
Class
WINES, BRANDIES * WHISKIES
IMPORTED DIRECT FROM
OOOKBURN, SMITHES & CO., Oporto, Portugal— Fines* Old Tawny PORTS.
DUFF, GORDON & 00., Jerez, Spain— Fines* Dry SHERRIES.
JAMES HENNESSY & CO., Cognac 1
A. DUBOIS & CO., Cognac /
PURE GRAPE BRANDIES,
In Hhds. and Oases.
JOHN JAMESON & SON
SIR JOHN POWER & SON
WISE’S (Cork)
BEN LOMOND (Special Highland)
SPECIAL OLD POT STILL
WHISKIES.
7 Years Old.
THE ABOVE FAMOUS
OLD POT STILL WHISKIES
made from Home Grown Barley, and thoroughly matured in bond, fulfil to the letter all the conditions laid down
by the court when giving judgment lately in the celebrated case—“ WHAT IS WHISKY ?**
HOGAN, riOONEY & CO.
Importers and
General Merchants,
MELBOURNE.
LEAVE THE CROWD
/
1
and qualify yourself to obtain a first-class position with first-
class pay. We train you by mall, in your spare time, in your
own home, no matter where you live, to become an Electrical
or Mechanical Engineer. Electrical Engineering is acknow-
ledged to be the profession of to-day. The overcrowded trades
offer no chance of advancement. Why? Because there are
hundreds waiting to take any man’s place, at even less salary.
Then he is face to face with
THE UNEMPLOYED QUESTION.
We could write pages on ibis subject. But the
whole matter is in a nutshell. There are too
many applying for ordinary positions. We offer
you the means to leave the crowd. We have
thousands of students to-day all over the
world whom we are lifting to the pinnacle of
success. Distance is no object. Let us qualify
you. We have couises in Electrical Engineer-
ing, Mechanical Engineering, Electric Lighting,
Electric Tramways, Dynamo Design, Motors,
Mechanical Drawing, Telephony, Telegraphy,
Mathematics, Ac. We supply our Students with
'a complete Reference Library, free. We teach
anyone who can read and write to
BECOME AN ELECTRICAL ENGINEER.
Don’t take our word for it. We ask you to investigate
matters loryourself. If you write to-day,we will Bend
you our interesting book, “ How to-become an Elec-
tr cal or Mechanical Engineer," absolutely free. It
tells the story of success. Send fob FREE copy
now to—;
THE ELECTRICAL ENGINEER INSTITUTE OF
CORRESPONDENCE INSTRUCTION,
5 Norwich House, Southampton St.,
Holborn, London, England.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuvo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
SMS
S
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
'e Sa
iB*' V\ ias2 7/ '865
Estab-
-1750.
N
•Si
§
More healthful out-of-doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
RUNABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome,
reliable car.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 16 H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring Oar. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich,
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd,, 253 Elizabeth St„ Sydney,
u
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
iHaisaffHPp
rsi
iwWlig:
THE
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two IVlinutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
-
-Mr
. '
m
m
tm -
’ - w
f; '
■f^S
' ;•%=*' - -''Vvr-fl * {*£.
ra
. ■
- s'
- £
y>
bMo, •
. 'v- . . IP I
SI3AJ3HI
®fc,.- •" rP:-fS?
■
mm
i£-z< r ? i-Z^ _
Sydney Offices of
DALGETY & CO.,
Limited.
Foundations laid with
BUBEBOID *
DAMPCOURSE
Wholesale Agents :
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY ana BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1374.
THU RSDAY, JUNE 14, 1906.
Prick 6d.
THIS ANIMAL IS NOT SO FIERCE AS HE LOOKS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing xvith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. I'hompson <i b Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
toivn; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Ilong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice,
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x Vein.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 1906.
THE GREAT DEAD.
Riohabd Seddon, one of the great personalities
of Australasian history, died dramatically last
Sunday at sea. Midnight on Saturday he hurried
from a banquet table to catch the steamer
for Maori land, which had been delayed to
allow him that, the last of a series of tri-
umphant festivities marking Australia’s appre-
ciation of his work. Within a few hours his
heart, which had carried him through so many
great struggles, suddenly failed, and without
a pang he gave up his useful life.
The mourning vessel brought the body back
to Sydney. The Australian welcome to the
Maoriland statesman had been too much for his
strength. For fevered weeks in Sydney and in
Melbourne the old man ran from one festivity to
another. Receptions, lunches, dinners, suppers,
levees, marked each day, and all the day. When
he left his own country the Maoriland Premier
was in poor health, and the trip to Australia was
designed in part as a recuperative one. Doctors
before had issued to him grave warnings. But the
big-hearted man, as robust in his appreciation of
human kindness and fellowship as in his old digger
days, had not the heart to refuse to fall in with
the full programme of welcome and homage which
the Australian people had prepared. He would
have deemed it a slight to disinterested kindness
to have missed one of the receptions arranged in
his honor. And perhaps, after all, the manner and
time of death were not unfitting. He had come
away from Maoriland after more than a decade of
fruitful and courageous life as its absolute ruler,
to Australia where, in the old days, he had toiled
with pick and shovel as a workman. He had
found that in the larger life of the Australian
people was kept a shrine for his achieve-
ments, and that here we watched with
the close sympathy of kindred his great
career. The huzzahs of four million Australians
were still in Seddon's ears as he faded into un-
consciousness. And the knowledge was in his
mind that, valuable as his work had been to
Maoriland. its fruitfulness had not endqd there,
but had extended to the Commonwealth, affording
a great example and a great re-assurance of the
ultimate soundness and sanity of legislation de-
signed to make the rewards of life more closely
correspond with the labor of life.
Richard Seddon was not Australian born. He
came of an English agricultural family, and close
kinship with the soil gave to his character that
stubborn, dogged trait which was so prominent.
In 1863 he emigrated to Victoria, and six years
later married there. Migrating later to Maori-
land, he plunged into the robust life of the West
Coast, and, in 1879, “ Digger Dick ” was sent by
his miner mates into Parliament. From then he
represented practically the same constituency
until his death. So firm was the hold he had
on his electors’ affection that the story was told,
but the other day, of an Opposition candidate
announcing himself at Westland, and being asked
by people who could only understand one possible
excuse for anyone but Seddon hoping to get votes
thereabouts: “Why, is Dick dead?” In 1891
Seddon became a member of the Ballance Minis-
try. Two years later he was called upon, through
the death of his chief, to lead that Cabinet,
and to take up the work of progressive legislation,
which has made Maoriland famous throughout
the world for contentment and prosperity. Not
without a struggle did Seddon establish his supre-
macy at first. There were other masterful spirits
—Robert Stout was one of them—claiming the
throne. But once firmly seated, Seddon’s right
to rule was justified by success. From 1893 to
1906 he held office as Premier, passing a bold
series of enactments, to provide Protection for
home industries, cheap land for the farmers, an
Arbitration Court and Factories Acts for the
artisans, and old age pensions for the veterans
who had retired from the battle of life. During all
that time his power grew rather than diminished.
Ilis rule was challenged often but never shaken.
With dogged courage he kept on the lines that had
been marked down by Ballance, and saw his
reward in the increasing prosperity of the people
and their increasing confidence in his Govern-
ment.
* * * »
There were blots, of course, on the Seddon rule.
He was a great ruler, but, after all, only human.
To one of the great mistakes of his career—the
mad-headed enthusiasm for the war against the
Boers— Seddon was prompted somewhat by local
conditions. Maoriland has always inclined to be
“Imperialistic.” Its sense of dependence for safety
on the British navy is abject. When the war
against the Boer farmers was opened, the story that
victory was necessary to prevent Britain from
falling into ruin was eagerly swallowed in Maori-
land, and Seddon was faced by a general outbreak
of war fever. With all his courage, Seddon never
was inclined to lead a forlorn hope, and he joined
in the Jingoism which he could not control. After-
wards he showed some grace of repentance. When
the Chinese slaves swarmed over South Africa
and disclosed the real purpose of the Boer war, Sed-
don recanted and was as strenuous in his protests
as he had been in his previous war passion. But
in his failure to appreciate, and act upon, the fact
that Maoriland, if it is to continue its national ex-
istence with any sure confidenceof safety, must be
self-reliant—in defence as in industries—and must
face the problem of keeping its homes free from
an invader without timorous and foolish reliance on
any outside power, Seddon failed in patriotic
statesmanship. His incapacity in regard to
finance was another blot on a great administrator.
The social legislation which he passed put Maori-
land in an exceptionally favorable position to
begin the task of lifting its mortgage to the
foreign moneylender. But Seddon could
never understand the necessity for under-
taking such a difficult task. Money borrowed
he looked upon almost in the light of money
earned, and thus an insidious unsettling influence
was left at the base of all his advanced policy—an
influence which will soon have to be seriously
reckoned with, and may even bring the whole
fabric toppling down in ruin.
* * * *
Yet, allowing full discount for his faults, giving
even some weight to the sneers which pallid
witlings direct against the little foibles of a gj;eat
man, Richard Seddon deserves a niche in the
Australasian temple of Fame, with his predeces-
sors in Government, George Grey and Bal-
lance. He, with them, belongs to Australasia,
not merely to Maoriland, and Australia is proud
to make the claim. The man had sympathy and
he had courage. Those two qualities make
greatness.
THE MEN OF THE MELVILLE ISLAND.
Melbourne has had its autocratic Joseph Panton,
P.M., presiding, in a foolish, aged fashion, over
its City Court for so long that it has become ac-
customed to flagrantly unjust decisions, to brow-
beating of witnesses, and to the heaping of scorn
and contumely on the heads of unfortunates who
have happened to sin against the sacred lawsof Pro-
putty. But even Melbourne, case-hardened as it is to
Panton’s methods, opened itseyesin wonder at the
proceedings in the Melville Island case. To begin
with. Panton, when hearing an utterly ridiculous
charge of having been absent from their ship
without leave, preferred by the captain against
nine men and one woman, committed a breach
of the fundamental principles of law. The
counsel for the prosecution asked that all wit-
nesses should be ordered out of court. Panton,
paying no heed to solicitor Joe Woolf’s ex-
planation that all the witnesses for the defence
were the accused persons, ordered all the male
accused out of court. For some equally inexplic-
able reason he ordered the stewardess (also accused
and also a witness) to remain in court. Then the
evidencefortheprosecutionwasheard inthe absence
of all the accused except the woman. After hearing
it Panton called in the accused one by one, asked
them dietatorially if they would go back to work
on the ship, and when every one of them had
refused, he proceeded to sentence them all to gaol.
He omitted to sentence the woman, probably for
thesamereasonthatmadehim let her stay in court!
But nobody knows what that reason was. Thus
the nine men were sent to gaol on evidence
that they had never heard and never had a
chance to reply to.
* * * *
Having deliberately broken one basic rule
of law, Panton then set himself to fracture
some others. Woolf applied for a stay
of proceedings pending an appeal. Panton,
despite the obligations laid on him by the Justices’
Act, refused this, and—apparently to prevent
Woolf getting the necessary bonds signed by
the men—this remarkable magistrate seems to
have issued instructions to the authorities
at Melbourne Gaol, where the men were
confined, not to allow anyone to see them.
Woolf presented himself at the gaol gates and
was refused admission. Still all was made ready
to go on ; but Panton next day, in order appa-
rently to prevent the appeal, granted an order
under the Merchant Shipping Act, compelling the
men to return to the Melville Island. Then
Woolf got Justice a’Beckett, in the Sunreme
Court, to grant a stay of proceedings, and to
order that the men should be brought back
again, so that the appeal might be properly
gone into, for how could men instruct their
counsel when they were kept on board a ship 50
miles away ? Then came the most unheard-of
proceeding of the lot. The captain of the Melville
Island declined to let the men go ashore, and the
police declined to interfere. Woolf protested,
and telegraphed, and exhibited his Supreme Court
order, and moved Heaven and earth generally;
hut the skipper of the Melville Island simply said
“No!” and no one could be found to enforce
the law. The men, however, convinced the
captain that they would not work the ship nor let
him take the ship out of the jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court. Then the captain reckoned he
would get a fresh crew. Arthur Quinn, Super-
intendent of the Sailors’ Home, is the only man
in Melbourne licensed to provide sailors for ships.
Anyone else doing so is liable to a penalty of £2O.
This is to stop crimping. Captain Larkins went
to Quinn and asked him to get a crew. Quinn
got him eight good sailors, but they refused to
blackleg. They said: “Let the captain pay
off the old crew and we’ll ship. Unless
he does that we won’t sign on.” The
captain said he wouldn’t have a new crew.
Nevertheless at 3.30 one Sunday morning
eight new men—most of them foreigners, all of
them drunk—were tumbled aboard the Melville
Island at Queenscliff from the tug Rescue. The
men, when sober, told the old crew, who were
still detained on board, that they had been
picked up in Port Melbourne boarding houses.
Several attempts were made to get the ship away,
and the pilot even came aboard, but the old crew
presented such a united front that the captain
gave up the idea, and said he would pay them off.
The shipping master was brought down from Mel-
bourne to witness the discharging process, and
with him came Quinn, the licensed purveyor of
sailors. The captain refused to let the latter aboard
—possibly he didn’t want Quinn to see the new
crew. Then, before the shipping master, the cap-
tain tried to pay the men, but wanted to dock
02 days’ wages from each man. The Merchant
Shipping Act says that when men have been con-
victed of absence from the ship without leave, the
captain may claim the cost of substitutes, or a
sum not exceeding six days’ pay, for every 24 hours
of absence. This captain of the Melville Island
arrogated to himself all the authority of a judge,
awarded to himself the maximum amount, and
for 10 days and eight hours’ absence he proposed
to deduct 02 days’ pay from each man. He
ignored the fact that the men were not convicted
until the Supreme Court had rejected their appeal.
He also ignored the fact that he had sent the men
ashore, in the first place, on a promise to pay them
off, and then suddenly ordered them to return.
They weren’t absent without leave, but absent by
his orders. But he had apparently learnt this
system of justice from Panton, P.M., and
was now putting it into operation. The
men refused to be paid off in this fashion,
and said they must consult their solicitor.
Thereupon Shipmaster Larkins ordered them off
his noble vessel, and told them he would pay them
off next day in the Shipping Master’s office, 50
miles away. The men asked for at least
some money to take them to Melbourne, and
were told to swim there. They went to
Quinn the sailors’ friend who had been
forbidden the ship, and Quinn guaranteed their
fares to the captain of the tug, who ran them up to
the Sailors’ Home. Next day they all, with their
solicitor and the shipping master, met at the
appointed time at the shipping master’s office;
but Larkins, the man who had made the
appointment, didn’t come.
* * * *
Captain Larkins is a Nova Scotian—known
to sailors as a “blue-nose” —a race reputed
to be Jewier than the Jew and cannier than
the Scotchman. He is also part-owner of
the ship—has a half share in it and in all that
he can save off the men’s food-bills or off
their wages. Thus he would have made a good
deal if he had driven the crew to straight-out deser-
tion. Under the French law his proceedings would
have been purposeless, for all wages forfeited are
paid into court and added to the fund for distressed
mariners. British shipping law, however, gives a
sailor very few rights and plenty of wrongs. And
he seems to get a special supply of wrongs in
Melbourne, where Panton is noted for his
harshness towards sailors who come before him.
Much of the disgrace and injustice might have
been avoided if Chief Secretary Gillott had been
Eossessed of even a semblance of back bone.
olicitor Woolf went to him and asked him to
direct the police to enforce the order of the
Supreme Court regarding the landing of the men
from theship. But Gillott would not do anything.
He preferred to leave all that sort of thing to some-
one else. Panton’s action was put before him
and he preferred to leave that also to some-
one else. Gillott is head of the police
department, and it is in keeping with the tradi-
tions of a police department presided over by
Gillott, that the force didn’t discover that four
of the drunken sailors illegally put on board
the Melville Island were deserters from another
ship, and wanted on warrant —it only found
this out when Woolf prodded the force into
action. But that was only the small tail-end of
the shocking farce.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Shoddy.
The evidence supplied to the Tariff Commission
by the managers of two woollen warehouses, those
of Hooper and Harrison and J. B. Tickle and
Son, and its wonderful reporting by the two
Foreign-trade Sydney dailies, show plainly how
hard pushed the importing crowd finds itself in its
fight against Australian industries. C. J. Ripley
(of Hooper and Harrison) started his evidence
with the argument that a duty of 15 per cent,
ad valorem really equals 4l£ per cent. Protection,
taking into account incidental importing charges.
But the details of the alleged 41| per cent, were
so absurd that the daily suppress didn’t blight its
cause by printing them. These are the figures
16| per cent, charges on the wool to Bradford.
2 i, i) ~ ~ ~ woollens mill to ship.
4 „ ~ outward freight on woollens.
1 ~ ~ casing charges.
1 ~ ~ homeward and outward insurance.
16J ~ ~ duty.
41J
This reads like a slippery importer’s invoice for
Customs purposes. First of all, take how the
16f per cent, incidental importing charges on
wool are made up. In Ripley’s evidence, they
are set forth as follows :
Buying commission and exchange on wool.. 3 per cent.
Freight, dock charges, handling wool in
London, and railage to Yorkshire .. Ilf
Interest on capital during transit to London ”
and outward journey 2
i6f „
To take the first item—how long would a wool-
buyer stand who made buying commission and
exchange 3 per cent. At the outside, they
are only 2 per cent. ? As regards item two—
what Bradford manufacturer would stand Ilf
per cent, (for docking charges, handling in
London, and railage to Yorkshire) when he
knows quite sufficient to buy in Sydney for ship,
inent to his Bradford mill via Liverpool or
Hull. Then, to get down to bedrock, even if
there were 16f per cent, incidental Protection on
wool (raw wool) it is mere deception to call that
16f per cent, on finished woollens. To do that, a
suit of clothes costing (say) £4 10s. would
need to_ weigh about a cwt. The 16f per
cent, incidental Protection of wool, if it existed
(which it doesn’t), would only be about 5 per cent,
on the value of the finished article. Then it is
assumed, in making up the alleged incidental
Protection, that the English manufacturer has to
import all his wool. He hasn’t; nearly half the
stuff he uses is either English-grown wool or
“pulled wool,” made locally from woollen rags.
What he does import is often the cheaper South
African and South American wools, while the
Australian manufacturer uses only the higher-
priced Australian wool, and uses no “ pulled wool.”
These African and S. American wools don’t cost-
anything like as much in freight as the fanciful
figure set down in the importer’s beautiful calcu-
lation. Then it is mere nonsense and deception
to speak as if the English manufacturer were the
only one who paid freight, and to put that in the
“incidental Protection ” ; the Australian manu-
facturer also pays railway freight on his wool, for
sheep don’t graze in Sydney and Melbourne. He
also pays buying commission just as the Britisher
does. As regards the alleged 2 per cent, charge
to take the finished woollen goods from the Brad-
ford mill to the ship, it must be a considerable
fool of a manufacturer who pays that freight for
so short a distance when the freight all the way to
Australia is only 4 per cent. As regards “ Casing,
1 per cent,” the Australian manufacturer also has
to case. And when the hours are taken into con-
sideration (Australia’s 48 hours per week against
England’s 50 hours), and the fact that far higher
wages are paid for the Australian 48 hours than
for the English 56, the Australian manufacturer
has no incidental Protection, and mighty little of
the alleged ad valorem. The last straw, however,
was the witness’s statement that “Australia
cannot produce tho class of goods required for the
market.” Australia can and does produce them ;
the writer of this, as a man who has worn none
but Australian cloth for years, wouldn’t mind
adding that it produces far better material than
the great bulk of the imported English trash,
which is one-fourth “pulled wool” made from old
rags. But the average importer has always main-
tained this hostile attitude towards the local mill.
The race of importers has worked under instruc-
tions from England not to buy locally, because
their English owners want their buying com-
missions. They never give orders locally except
when they have run out of stocks, and
whenever a local line has jumped into favor,
some warehouseman or other has imported
shoddy imitations until the shoddy importations
have killed the demand. “We have tried several
(Australian) mills without satisfaction,” says this
insufferable importing person. Sending round
for a few suit lengths, or endeavoring to get a
local mill to stop its looms to run off a feu-
paltry samples of out-of-stock lines is not the
way to get the same measure of satisfaction
as Lady Northcote obtained when she secured
out of Australian tweed “the best tailor-made
dresses she ever wore.” But the importer was at
his best when he said : “ We might take a lesson
from America, where even a 75 per cent, duty has
not improved their manufacturing.” Anyone who
looks up the record of the enormous growth of the
U.S. woollen mills must shriek with mirth at this
wonderful importer. And he was at his second
best when he said that a suit which, six years ago,
cost £3 10s. was now sold at £4 10s. If this were
true (which it isn’t, for the suit that used to cost
£4 10s. is now obtainable at something much more
like £3 10s.), what a conscienceless scoundrel must
the importer be to put £1 on to the cost of a suit
because the material of which it was made bore a
duty of about Bs. !
+
The Rift in the Cabinet.
When Reid was driven with contempt out of
Federal office, the Ministry which should natu-
rally have followed would have been one led by
Deakin and Watson jointly, and this Ministry
would have included such men as Lyne, Isaacs,
Groom, W. M. Hughes (presuming he dropped
the Freetrade superstition) and Batchelor. It
would have combined the causes of Protection and
Labor, and would have opened for the Australian
Commonwealth such an era of political progress
as Ballance and Seodon began in Maori-
land. Such a Cabinet The Bulletin has
reason to believe was at the time possible,
inasmuch as the personages and parties
concerned would have been, in the main,
willing. But through outside circumstances
the possibility came to nothing. The Deakin
Ministry was formed, and included some members
who were quite out of sympathy with the pro-
gressive ideas which dominated its majority. The
course of political history has emphasised this
rift. The Government meets the present
session with two of its members in more or
less open revolt against the Cabinet’s declared
policy. Playford (whose good work in the
past calls for recognition, but no amount
of past good work can excuse continued bad work
in the present) stands stupidly athwart a forward
Defence policy. Under his administration, Aus-
tralian defence is a more dismal farce than it has
ever been before. John Forrest is another dis-
cordant element in the Cabinet. His publicly-
announced opposition to the land policy which his
chief has declared for, makes it essential—if the
Government is to be a Government, and not a
chaotic institution, in which every man scrambles
for himself —that his resignation should be called
for by his chief. It would be tendered volun-
tarily only that Forrest has a sort of idea that
there is only one important thing in politics, and
that is that Forrest should be in office. Evidently
before the Deakin Ministry can get full steam
ahead it will need to shed some of its members.
But with whom to replace them? That is the
awkward problem whilst the Labor party refuses
to take its proper share of the
Government. ’
♦—
Unconstitutional.
The good old word “unconstitutional,” which
was so large a part of the late Parkes’ political
stock-in-trade, turned up as a matter of course in
the House of Reps, during the debate on that
superfluous substance, the Address-in-Reply-
George Reid stated that it was unconstitutional
to have three or four or more parties in the
House; the only constitutional course was to have
exactly two. And then, unluckily, just when he
had an excellent chance to be interesting and use-
ful, he faded away. Things are unconstitutional,
according to Reid, but how to make them consti-
tutional he doesn’t say. It might be done by
recognising and defining two parties by Act of
Parliament, and disqualifying every candidate
and every elector who doesn’t belong to one or the


Acres in Radi
Grade.
Value per Acre.
Aggregate Value.
61O
£15 0 0
£0.000 0 0
r.sl
13 0 0
7,570 0 fl
1,422
12 0 0
17,004 0 0
1,060
10 10 0
11.130 0 0
«,0C«
10 0 0
■01,310 0 0
2,340
fl i> 0
2i, m o o
175
* 0 0
1,400 0 0
7 10 0
2,010 0 0
670
7 0 0
6,132 0 0
101
COO
1,164 0 0
»IS
6 0 0
1,810 0 0
•126
3 15 0
1,598 15 0
1,013
3 10 0
3,650 10 0
13,415
£0 5 in
d£124«l&7 5 0
other, but Reid doesn’t suggest that. It might
also be done—seeing that there are three parties—
by expelling one of them bodily from the House,
and as. Reid is the man who says the existence
of a third party is unconstitutional, the expulsion
of Reid and his following seems a reasonable
way out. But Reid doesn’t suggest that either.
Also, the existence of three parties might be tem-
porarily disguised by one of them selling its prin-
ciples for a consideration, and thus being in the
aggregate a liar and a corrupt scoundrel; or by
two parties selling each one-half of its principles
for a consideration, so that they could arrive at a
compromise or coalition, and be, in the aggregate,
two liars and two corrupt scoundrels. But Reid
doesn’t openly suggest that either, and in any
case it would be no remedy, for, though the party
in the House might be bought, the community
couldn’t be. And as Reid dare not openly suggest
any adequate remedy for the alleged evil of the
existence of three or more parties, why does he
waste the public time weeping about it ? If it is
unconstitutional —the Lord only knows how it is
so, for there isn’t a line in the Australian
•Constitution about having only two parties—
to have more than two parties in the country,
or more than two religions, or for any family
to exceed twins, or for more than two fires to
break out in one night, all that can be said is
that the Constitution requires altering. So long
as men think for themselves, and stick honestly
to their opinions instead of selling them as
Joe Cook did, they are liable to divide into ten
parties, and when the special objects of six or
more of these are accomplished or abandoned, to
resolve back into four or less, and then, as new
ideas and objects arise, to expand again into five
or nine. The two-party idea rests solely on the
old, gross, corrupt English theory that Parliament
should consist solely of the crowd that has office,
and doesn’t care how it keeps it, and the crowd
that wants office and doesn’t care how it gets it.
And the old, gross, corrupt English system of
Party Government, which we have inherited, was
based on this corrupt idea; it was corruption resting
on corruption. The Swiss get over the difficulty
by electing Ministers for a fixed period.
A Swiss Ministry requires no permanent
majority behind it; and as its fate doesn’t
hang on the acceptance or rejection of its measures,
and as their rejection doesn’t bring the Ministry’s
opponents any nearer office, each Bill is discussed
on its merits. There are only two things on which
a Bill can be discussed —its merits, and its uses as
a means of keeping an old Ministry in, or putting
a new Ministry in. When the fate of the Ministry
ceases to be involved then there is nothing, save
its merits, to discuss a Bill on. The House may
be divided into ten parties on this measure, and
into only two on the next one, but when it comes
to a division there must be a majority one way or
the other, and the number of parties doesn’t sig-
nify. It is needless to say, however, that George
Reid does not advocate this clean, honest and
simple way of making government easy and logical
in a House of many divisions. His idea is to pre-
serve the old corruption whereby, if there are
three evenly-divided parties, the only possibility
of stable government is for one of them to take
office and buy enough support from a second
party as he bought Joe Cook, or sell enough of its
principles to a second party as he is willing to sell
his alleged Freetrade convictions, and so get toge-
ther a corrupt majority. Meanwhile Reid wastes a
great deal of time stating that the existence of
three parties is unconstitutional. That may be so,
but as they do exist, and plainly intend to con-
tinue existing, and as Reid dare not propose to
disqualify or expel one of them, what is gained by
the weary, doddering, time-wasting statement?
The moon may be unconstitutional, but it is
there.
O
A Study in Land Monopoly.
In that home of land monopoly, the Western
District of Victoria, 60 squatters hold 2197 square
miles, or an average of over 36g square miles
apiece. Right in the centre of this patch, and
distant some 253 miles from Melbourne, lies
Merino Downs estate. It was originally grabbed
by the hungry Hentys ; as soon as Major
Mitchell had completed his rough survey of the
district they seized Muntham, Merino Downs,
and various other large areas. Prior to the Free
Selection Act, land could be had for £1 per acre.
Actually, half-a-crown or so was paid on applica-
tion ; the balance was paid out of profits. As
Merino Downs now stands the property consists
of 13,445 acres. It was obtained at £1 per acre,
and therefore cost only £13,445, even assuming
that the whole cost was paid by the Hentys.
For forty odd years the estate has been sacred to
the sheep and the cow, and has yielded a royal
income to its owners. The local village of Merino
has rotted away, and part of it has fallen down, but
Merino Downs estate is still going strong. The
increasing scarcity of farm lands has had an inevit-
able effect, and each year sends the value of
Merino Downs still higher. The following figures
represent the valuations, exclusive of improve-
ments, made by the Glenelg Shire Council for
1906
Even assuming that the municipal figures do not
represent a ridiculous under-valuation, as they
mostly do, here we have a present of £111,512 ss.
made to the owners in about 40 years. All that
the shire collects by way of rates from Merino
Downs is £348, and that includes the charge on
the squatter's mansion. But practically this is
no tax at all; to an extent, in fact, it is the basis
for an endowment. For, as far as it will go, the
poor little £348 is spent on roads, etc., to im-
prove the Merino Downs estate ; and the tax-
payer who has no land actually puts up some-
times as much as another £348 to complete the im-
provement of Merino Downs. The public thus puts
its hand into its pocket to improve the landlord’s
properry, and the landlord promptly shows his
gratitude by squeezing the public. The Manifolds
of Camperdown, in the same district, have made a
fine art of thus squeezing the tenant dairy-farmer;
but Merino Downs has gone one better. It has
graciously let in some grazing tenants at an annual
rental of £2 per acre ! On a 5 per cent, basis, this
means a landlord’s valuation of £4O per acre—for
land for which the State got £l, and to whose
value the owners have contributed practically
nothing at all. What a swindle it is to expect the
people, under such circumstances, to repurchase
the estate, even at the Glenelg shire valuation of
£9 ss. lOd. an acre ! And how miserably frag-
mentary this repurchase business is, anyhow.
For, supposing that 13,445 acres of Merino Downs
were resumed, 59 surrounding squatters would
still hold 1,393,251 acres on behalf of his majesty
the sheep. The State needs to make the whole
2197 square miles of soil available to the small
farmer ; and a stiff progressive land-tax is the only
implement that will effectually do that.
The Things Most Needful.
The Australian Parliament opened with a lengthy
programme —a very commendable programme in
every detail, but one which, considering the time
available, threatens to lead to an undue waste and
scattering of effort. Also the Parliament opened
too late ; and it made a bad beginning by adopt-
ing the old purposeless formality of a debate on
the Address-in-Reply ; and it seems as if it were
going to make the old mistake of introducing al-
most the whole of its measures in the Representa-
tives, and leaving the Senate to loaf the first half
of the session and get into a violent state of con-
gestion later on. If there is only time in this
short session to do a few things, these few should
be :
(1) More Protection to provide work for the people
(even if it is only possible to get High Protection in a few
leading industries, that much should be secured, with a
promise that the smaller industries will be dealt with
next session). This item includes the Anti-Trust Bill,
which is Protection of a most valuable kind.
(2) A heavy Federal graduated land-tax to break up
the big estates and provide land for the people.
(3) The taking over of the Northern Territory with all
its assets and liabilities. As things stand now, it seems
almost certain that the British Government can revoke
the document by which S. Australia administers the Ter-
ritory (the Commonwealth’s only hold on it is apparently
through S. Australia’s temporary and dubious right of
administration), and make it a Crown Colony, and fill it
with Asiatic immigrants ; and the need to make as sure as
possible that we really own our own Commonwealth is
desperately urgent. Also, as part of this same question,
must be considered the resumption of the building of the
Transcontinental railway, the completion of that railway
being one of the conditions which the British Govern-
ment insisted on before it would definitely transfer the
Territory.
(4) Having thus made arrangements to provide land
and work for the people, and having provided in the Nor-
thern Territory a field for Commonwealth (as distinct from
State) immigrants, the appointment of a High Commis-
sioner (one as unlike John Forrest as possible) whose
chief duty will beat first to find and send out desirable
white immigrants.
(5) The definite acquisition of the Federal Capital site
on Monaro.
After these come many other matters, almost
equally urgent and desirable, such as the com-
pletion of the system of High Protection; the
establishment of a systeni of citizen defence, with
local arms and ammunition factories, and steel and
iron works; the commencement of an Australian
fleet; the taking over of the State debts, and the
establishment of a sinking fund in any case,
even if the debts are not immediately
taken over; the resumption by the Com-
monwealth of the whole of the State
railway systems and the whole duty of railway
building, also the early establishment of a
uniform railway gauge, and the commencement
of the other transcontinental line to Westralia;
banking and insurance legislation, and a multi-
tude of sundries. But in a short session, during
which many things must be sacrificed, it is
necessary to make a choice. The five items first
enumerated are so urgent that they should be
pushed through at any cost, even if it is necessary
to apply the gag to Cook and Pumpkin Smith
every night, and to suspend little Kelly for the
rest of the session as being a small, pathetic
nuisance with an irritating titter and a baby
habit of cackle ; and to cut short Reid’s dis-
quisitions upon some vague theological point
which he calls “Sosh.”
“ Wliat tlie Traffic Will Bear.”
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners have at last
been moved to say something about the weird
and remarkable differential rates charged on
various descriptions of goods, but their reply isn’t
what might be called convincing. It throws a
good deal of light on the situation, but the light
it throws isn’t a satisfying illumination. Speaking
of the general principles of the business this is
their explanation :
Generally, the aim of the Commissioners has been to
quote the lowest possible rate for the primary produc-
tions of the State, and our present charges compare more
than favorably with those in any of the States in regard
to these freights. As to the basis of classification, one
prime factor is no doubt to charge what the traffic will
bear.
So the main principle is to charge 1 ‘ what the
traffic will bear.” Therefore it seems that
while many classes of manufactured goods
have to bear a charge of as much as
£1 18s. sd. per ton for 100 miles, and other
classes have to stand charges of £1 Bs. 3d.
and £1 os. 5d., hay, corn and chaff can
only stand 3s. 4d. per ton for 100 miles, and grain
and flour, when it is the local product coming
from the interior to Sydney, can only stand 3s. 7d.
per ton for the same distance. As these rates do
not anything like cover the cost of haulage,
and their fair share of the interest bill, and
as it seems they are all that the traffic will bear,
we only get back to the point that, under Free-
trade or insufficient Protection, the agricultural
industry has become a parasite living on the rest
of the community. A huge proportion of the
wheat crop, for instance, goes to England because
the people who make our woollens, linens, silks,
iron and steel, &c., &c., are there or thereabouts
instead of where they should be—right here. It
costs nearly lid. per bushel to get the grain half-
way round the world to England, and yet it has
to sell there cheaply enough to compete with the
produce of countries that are almost at .T. Bull’s
door. Therefore, so that the farmer may bo able to .
pay heavy charges to Bull’s ships, and to Bull’s
agents and middlemen, and yet supply Bull with
cheap food, N.S.W. is taxed to make up an
enormous railway deficit, and the goods that
N.S.W. uses itself are taxed by extra-heavy rail-
way freights to prevent the visible deficit being
larger than it is. And the only satisfaction the
Railway Commissioners can offer is that the
almost invisible freight charge made on most
varieties of agricultural produce is all the traffic
will bear ; in other words, the agricultural indus-
try, so long as it has to live so largely on exports,
must beaparasite, and must have this huge indirect
aid or bonus, else it would collapse. And this is
not the farmer’s fault; he is the victim of circum-
stances —of the importing and exporting disease.
-♦
A Labor Perfidy Checked.
Action taken by the Federal Labor party in
Parliament will probably have the affect of nulli-
fying the decision of the Victorian Political Labor
Council to offer perfidious opposition to those
Protectionist members who burned their bridges
behind them to help the Labor Government when
it was sorely pressed. Such a development was to
have been expected. It is the natural outcome of
the Political(Jouncirsattempt to force an honorable
body of men into a dishonorable course of action,
that they refuse to obey. For whatever ill conse-
quences follow, the Political Labor Council will be
responsible. But it is not likely that those ill
consequences will be of any moment, whilst the
good results will be enormous. Public confidence
in the Labor party will be re-established and
strengthened by the proof afforded that that
party takes a serious view of its responsibilities to
the people, and is courageous enough to with-
stand the folly of the Labor Political Council.
Were the Parliamentary Labor party to follow
meekly in the wake of the Victorian Political
Council it would not only be flouting its leader’s
word and its own word, and the pledge
of the Central Executive of the Labor Political
Leagues, and of the Interstate Conference of those
leagues, but it would inflict a shattering blow to
the public belief in its honesty of purpose. What-
ever tortuous quibbling the Victorian Political
Labor Council may indulge in, it cannot face this
direct issue : The Labor party was in office in the
Federal Parliament and unable to keep office with
its own strength. At its invitation the more
radical Protectionists rallied to its help and
kept it in power for several months. Hig-
gins actually joined the Labor Ministry.
Lyne, Isaacs, Mauger, Hume Cook, Bonython,
Crouch and Chanter gave it loyal and
unswerving support. In doing this they cut
themselves hopelessly off from the Tory party.
They made it impossible that in future they should
get any votes which were not Labor-sympathetic
votes. It was but elementary fairness, therefore,
that they should have got an assurance of Labor
support at the next elections. They came into the
Labor camp as allies, fought a sturdy fight for
Labor, and it is now proposed by the Victorian
Political Labor Council that they should be
assassinated whilst they are staying within friendly
lines. Such Punic methods of warfare can get
justification from nowhere. In repudiating them
the Parliamentary Labor party will do but the
barest j ustice to its allies and to its own reputa-
tion.
♦
Charity and Thrift.
Melbourne Herald lately gave particulars of
a case showing the beauty of that sweet
“charity” dispensed by the Ladies Bountiful of
the average Ladies’ Benevolent Society. A Rich-
mond widow with six children, the two eldest
being boys who earned 3s. a week each, kept her
home together by washing, etc. She had a bad
attack of influenza and couldn’t wash; and simul-
taneously the two boys’ employer could find no
work for them, and had to discharge them. In
despair the widow applied to the L.B.S.’s secre-
tary, and was referred to the particular Lady Boun-
tiful in whose district she dwelt. The committee
met fortnightly, but in the meantime each dame
was empowered to spend up to ss. on each
“case.” So the widow was given a shilling’s-
worth of bread and twelve penn’orth of wood.
Three days later she got another similar lot of
wood and two shillings’ worth of breads—which ex-
hausted the 55., so it had to last the six kiddies
and herself till the blessed committee met. That
body went into the pros and cons of £he matter,
and after deep thought nerved itself ito vote the
family a half-crown—a whole half-crown—a week !
The story, so far, ends there. Compared to this
even the charity of t.he Law, though cold, is at
least filling. The Law met ap old woman of 75 at
Pentridge gaol gates the o click-morning, and
diagnosed her, in a manner of speaking. She had
just done six months for being paralysed and
bedridden and not having acquired a competency
—the Law called it “ vagrancy,” but, there never
having been any other charge against her, that
is what it really was. The Law didn’t
like to let her die on the pavement, so it humped
her across to the Coburg Police Court (this was
on June 5) and gave her another three months to
go on with. The Law didn’t ask her why she had
not practised “thrift” in her earlier years, or
where was the provision she should have made for
a rainy day and for old age. Possibly the Law
recollected the Richmond widow—that sturdy
battler could have thrown a whole flood of light
on the “ thrift ” question. Come to think it over,
the two systems of charity leave all the advan-
tage on the side of the Law. The Law provides a
hard bed, also clothes, a fair amount of victuals,
some warmth and a water-tight roof, at a cost
of 16s. 9d. per week; the Benevolent Ladies
furnish plain dry bread, for 2s. Gd. weekly
and not too much of it, and leave the patient to
scramble for the warmth, the clothes, the bed and
the roof. True, they leave their clients the bless-
ing of liberty, and the Law doesn’t, but then the
Benevolent Ladies have no power to lock anyone
in. If they had it is just possible that they would
chain up the poor in the coal cellar.
The Marrying Industry.
The most serious business a parson ever has to
transact, looking at the matter how you will, is
the tying of couples together more or less for life.
The State gives him this power and authority
presumably on the ground that he is a person of
good character, as certified to by his denomina-
tional bosses. That is the-4>eautiful theory of the
matter. But in practice the more enthusiastically
a sect casts a parson out as being unworthy, for
some reason or other, to stay inside, the more en-
thusiastically couples turn up to him to be tied
together. A congregation may throw its minister
on his ear in a cold world with extreme
violence; it may decide that he isn’t even
fit to “ask a blessing” over a stale bun
at a Sunday-school picnic, and yet the State not
only allows him to go on performing on its behalf
the most serious business ever he had to do, but
the fact that he has landed on his ear brings him
tin extra rush of cash customers. It is a cold year
when anything can be thrown up against the
ruling body of the Quakers ; yet the man or the
men authorised in that sect to marry don’t have a
wedding to see to in N.S. Wales more than once
a year, on an average. The Particular Baptist is
a shivery sect whose parson The Bullisiin doesn’t
remember having met in either Bankruptcy or
Divorce; yet the Particular Baptist marriages in
N.S. Wales run to only half a wedding a year.
On the other hand, the parson who made
the most notorious smash among N.S. Wales
parsons of recent years, and who faded out
of the country to parts unknown for a time,
when he returned set up a matrimonial agency,
called himself a Hitch-up Apostle, or the
founder of the One Quid Church, or something of
the sort, and last year performed 274 marriages—
within 17 of the number performed by all the
District Registrars in the whole State. Appar-
ently, if in addition to the things he was
charged with, he had been accused of the
three-card trick, he would have had 374 marriages
to perform. There seems absolutely no way to
put an end to business of this sort except to pro-
vide that no marriage shall be binding unless it
be performed by the civil authority. If, on top
of that, the people want a religious ceremony by
way of frill and tail-feathers, let them have
it—only it will be as immaterial to the
real thing as the “ flowers ” on the wed-
ding cake. There never was any good
reason why the parson should be trusted by the
State with this most important business. In
England he was given it to do because the Angli-
can Church part of him was a State servant; and
to this day the foremost parsons of the great
“Dissenting” bodies—men who in other respects
have as much influence as the Archbishop of Can-
terbury—have no power to carry through a mar-
riage without the assistance of the district
registrar, who, with two witnesses, must be pre-
sent. Just because the State Church ministers in
England performed this duty for tl.e State, and
because there was no State Church in Australia,
therefore every minister of every church—bogus
or otherwise —was given authority in Australia.
It was a stupid piece of reasoning. There
is a Prince of Wales in England, and there
isn’t a Prince of Wales in Australia, therefore
everybody in Australia ought to be the Prince
of Wales —that is the logic of it. It wouldn’t,
however, matter much if it were only illogical—it
is harmful. It too often drags a highly important
business, the most important contract most people
ever make, down to the level of a frowsy back
parlor, and makes the go-between some broken-
down parson, who is concerned about only one
thing—the fee.
*
The Woman Who Died.
Herewith some deeply-affecting samples of
philanthropic correspondence from a Sydney firm
of “consumption curers’’ to a Melbourne man
who had previously purchased some of the firm’s
infallible specific on behalf of his wife. She died
of phthisis, notwithstanding the marvellous
remedy, but her bereaved didn’t communicate
this fact to the philanthropists in Sydney, so they
presently started to expostulate with him on his
neglect of duty. A letter, dated April 9th,
expresses great concern for the health of the
sufferer (then deceased): —
We are very anxious to learn why you have not replied
to our last letter. If your wife is not absolutely cured it
cannot be that you contemplate allowing her disease to
resume its ravages unhindered. Yet she has now been
without treatment for some days. If you feel that the
price we are obliged to ask is more than you can readily
meet, we will help you rather than she should chance
any further delay between treatments. .. . Although
50s. for the full month’s treatment is the lowest price we
can make in all cases, we will help you by making a
special concession. Send us with your order but 405., and
we will immediately' forward the fullunonth’s treatment ;
the balance of 10s. we leave you to forward when she is
cured. ... It would not be fair to us, even were it safe
for her, to discontinue treatment before she is fully
cured.
Six weeks later, not having‘yeeeived an order
with 405., the good, kind curers renewed their
appeal:— ' -
That we should stretch forth a helping hand when any-
one is suffering and in distress is a solemn duty we each
owe to humanity. We fear vour silence means that you
feel unable to bear the expense of further treatment for
your wife, y'et dislike to tell us so. But we cannot give
her up without one more effort, and so we have decided
to bear a still larger part of your burden. We will send
her the full month’s treatment, asking you to pay only
30s. now. When she is well, you can show your appre-
ciation of our assistance by telling others what the treat-
ment did for her.
The next letter from the Humanitarians will pro-
bably offer to bear the whole burden of a full
month’s treatment —on time-payment terms. But
their only chance of getting a valuable testimonial
from the widower would bp in a sympathetic
refund of the 50s. he paid them before he became
a sadder and a wiser man. Meanwhile his wife
remains dead.
The Man with, the Owe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The public debt of Australia amounts to more than
£230,000,000.
Bowed by the weight of Interest, he leans
His head upon his monstrous Owe.
Poor victim of political machines !
These gibbering shades that come and go
Have heaped upon Ins back a bloated world
Of bitter and unshifting Debt.
How strange is Man ? Behold ! he has not hurled
His foes on Hate’s grim scrap-heap yet!
They ride upon his sagging back, and still
Pretend that they alone are friends ;
They hector him—with voices loud and shrill —
When ’neath their old dead weights he bends !
Can Satire sting—Sarcasm’s acid eat?—
Can Reason’s iron voice prevail ?
Can nothing stir this fool the Tories beat
And smite with Jaw’s eternal flail?
Regard the Man whom drowsy Fortune gave
The lordship of this continent;
Behold this fool—a banker’s abject slave —
Held by the bonds of Monish Lent!
Where is the Spine he had in days of yore—
The will to strike, the power to Do ?
Say, was Australia’s birthright bartered for
The blots upon an I O U ?
Eureka never was—they flatly lie
Who say Australia once was strong ;
’Tis false ; no Flag of Freedom gemmed the sky
For him who drags the Owe along !
For him the brand of endless helotry
At very birth was grimly set;
He came in chains, across the pathless sea,
And wears them still—the Chains of Debt !
What Habit is, we know Traditions are—
Dead withes that bind men unto Loss.
No glory streams from Freedom’s splendid star
For him who long has borne the cross !
Stars are to him as phantasies and dreams —
He knew them once, in days long dead ;
But turns his back whensoine greatcomet gleams—
E’en so the debtor bows his head !
He sees no glory in the firmament —
The stars are shining I O U’s,
Bright notes-of-hand all bearing ten per cent.
On sums the seraphs owe the Jews !
The comets are but astral bailiffs grim,
Who haste to levy drear Distraint
Upon the goods of erring cherubim.
Or sell the chattels of some saint!
Life is to him one long Insolvency—
On either side dread debits yawn ;
A wilderness of mortgaged Misery,
Where Shylocks croak at dusk and dawn !
Death is the ancient Schedule filed at last,
A meeting of grave Creditors
Who ask the Corpse about his bankrupt past,
And shunt him forth from Heaven’s doors.
vio.
GRANT HERVEY.


AS*
h
TRADE
MARK
1001
SANO
fcO
NEW CONFECTION
SAVE THE WRAPPERS.
Several Victorian shire councils lately wanted
T. Bent to buy wire rabbit-netting, and supply it
to them at cost price ; and Thomas undertook to
inquire about it. First, he found that the Mel-
bourne importers asked £47 a ton for wire. Then
he discovered that Premier Price, of S. Australia,
had got a lot direct from English makers at from
£2l ss. to £2llls. a ton, which put the importers’
swindle under the limelight, so to speak. Bent,
who knows that the absence of a duty allows the
importers to play tricks with their prices—having
no local competitor to keep them straight—then
ascertained that, a few years ago, when the Vic.
duties were in force, the big firm of Lysaght
Brothers began making netting from bar steel at
Footscray (Vic.), and got as far as employing
30 or 40 hands; later on, they had to give
it up, after dropping a lot of money. The trouble
was the old one. The Australian worker and
his representative insist on from 7s. to 10s. for an
eight hours day ; but, though they can’t insist
upon the same terms for foreign workmen, they
cheerfully permit the foreign workmen’s products
to come in. Then they expect the local manufac-
turer to keep his mills open And, of course, he
can tdo it. So to-day the Footscray factory is
just four bare walls, and the 30 or 40 families who
lived on the industry, and the 300 or 400
who might have lived on it Heaven
knows where they are. Further, instead
of the goods being cheaper, the foreign manufac-
turer and the importer seize their chance and
make the State suffer for its folly, by rushing up
the price as mentioned above.
♦
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board appears to be
in a remarkable position. So far as it has gone it
has paid working expenses and interest, and about
£lOO,OOO more, and Premier Joey Carruthers
has enthusiastically annexed that £lOO,OOO to
help make his paper surplus with. The said
£lOO,OOO was urgently wanted for three separate
purposes, quite apart from Joey’s surplus
(1) To reduce the debt on the water and sewerage
ystem.
(2) To provide a fund for repairs, which will become
heavier as the works grow older.
(3) To provide for extensions of the water and sewerage
system as population expands, and more water and sewer-
age become necessary.
All these things are urgent, but, as already men-
tioned, Joey has annexed the board’s surplus.
So there is no provision to reduce the debt, no
sinking fund, and no depreciation fund, and it is
alleged that the Board has had great difficulty in
recovering a few thousands of its own money for
extensions, in consequence of which scarcity, many
new houses must remain unsewered. It is’difficult
to know what the Water and Sewerage Board exists
for if it isn’t to promote water and sewerage. If
it could invest its surplus in more water and more
sewers (which would have no debt on them and no
interest to pay, and would consequently return a
larger net revenue) it would be much the same as
reducing the debt, and also much the same as pro-
viding a depreciation fund. And it would
certainly' be fulfilling the Board’s mission which is
to bring clean water in and to carry dirty water
away. But it wouldn’t be the same for Joe’s
paper surplus. Apparently just now Joe’s paper
surplus is more important than anything else.
--
It will be something for Labor-leader Watson
and his followers to recollect, when the tariff
comes up for amendment, that, on May 29th,
representatives of the Ironworkers’ Defence Asso-
ciation, 1000 strong, saw Customs Minister Lyne,
and gave him some facts to assist him in the
coming tight. They showed that at Murtoa (Vic.),
and again at Boort (Vic.), representatives of the
International Harvester Co. and the Massey-
Harris Co. had made tests of every Australian-
made plough. These ploughs were admittedly
better than the American-made implements, and
they wanted to pick up points and so get some-
thing that would wipe these products of Australian
experience and brains out of Australia’s own
markets. These 1000 artisans asked Lyne—not to
prevent the foreign exploiters stealing Australia’s
brains, but merely to try and get such a duty as
should force the companies to set up their
machinery here and make their ploughs in Aus-
tralia, under conditions which could be supervised
and kept fair. Lyne promised to do his utmost.
Now what says the Federal Labor party ? Does
it seek work for the unemployed—here is work to
offer ! Or does it want to see such Australian
implement-makers as there are robbed of their
jobs, the place of Australian machines being taken
by American? It can easily manage that, too ;
it has simply to go on sinking the fiscal issue—to
go on doing nothing while the American co.’s are
doing everything.
«
“Itan” : As a N.S. Welshman living in Banana-
land, let me emphatically protest against the
un-Federal spirit of theN.S.W. Eailway Commis-
sioners regarding the Grafton-Tweed railway.
When asked to improve the service, which is one
of the worst in East Australia, the reply is that
N.S. W..is now losing so many thousands a year,
and doesn’t want to lose more. That it is making
this loss is its own fault. At present a traveller
takes two or three days to reach Brisbane
from Grafton. The Queensland Commissioner
is prepared to run the trains from the
Tweed Heads so that the through trip
may be accomplished in one day, but the
N.S.W. authorities, in the interests of Sydney
importers and merchants, will not agree to this
improvement. They persist in giving a service
so slow that a man on horseback, if he misses the
train at one station, can comfortably catch up to
it at the next. Therefore, in order to please a
few people in Sydney, who think that some busi-
ness might trickle through to the Queensland
capital, the Commissioners are losing a very large
revenue. Then there is the matter of extending
the line from the N.S.W. terminus (Mur-
willumbah) to the Tweed Heads, to join
the Queensland line. This extension, if built,
would induce a large amount of goods traffic. At
present a parcel cannot be despatched by train
from Brisbane for the N.S.W. Northern rivers,
because N.S.W. has not as much as arranged with
the Tweed passenger steamers to put the goods on
and off. The Grafton-Tweed railway, it seems to
me, is not intended to pay—in fact, is deliberately
intended to be a loss so that it may be quoted as
a horrible example of the evils of building rail-
ways which tend to let trade go to its natural out-
let (when that outlet isn’t Sydney).
IT WAS GALLAHERS.
CUSTOMER: “I want a tin of the very best
tobacco you've got.”
TOBAOCONIST: “ Here you are! GALLAHER'S
GOLD PRATE or TWO FLAKES."
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “For England.”
Criterion “The Man from Mexico.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Little Michus.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Centenary Hall Macdennott’s Biograph and Pro-
fessor Scott.
Town Hall Marie Narelle Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Little Mary.”
Her Majesty’s “ On the Quiet.”
Theatre Royal “ Death or Glory Boys.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
AthenjEUm Hall West’s Pictures & the Brescians.
The dainty music of the “Little Michus,”
tricked out with the broad fun which Lauri
imparts into the piece, has filled Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, during the past week. A prettier picture
for the eye or a sweeter impression to the ear than
“ The Little Michus” give would be hard to con-
ceive. Reginald Roberts gets huge applause
nightly for a top-note which quavers like a safety
valve blowing off, and while that is so he’s not
likely to be encouraged to more artistic singing.
The public evidently must have a top-note of
some sort.
* * *- *
The success of “The Man from Mexico ”
has been such that the Sydney season has been
extended for a few days. The proposed appear-
ances at Newcastle will consequently beabandoned
for the present and the co. will go from Sydney on
to Melbourne playing at Goulburn and Albury en
route. This stage story of Jug has put up some-
thing like a record for farce-comedy in Sydney.
It presents the idea of 30 days in the lock-up in a
light and frivolous spirit, and lends grace and
cheerfulness and frill to the skilly and the white-
washed cell.
** * *
Various gallant huntsmen will fight the
Boers “For England ” at Sydney Royal, and, in
the same cause, Manasses Marks will overcharge
40 per cent, on discounted bills for some nights yet.
On Saturday week “In Sight of St. Paul’s ” will
be revived. The things that happen in sight of
St. Paul’s in this play are enough to make the
walls of that estimable building shudder and to
make the sacred edifice go and dissipate bitterly
in its own Communion cup.
** * *
Clever Madame Yeamans-Titus has been
out of the Sydney Palace programme since Satur-
day night. On that occasion Leslie Harris fought
the powers of dullness (and routed them to a
finish) single-handed. On Monday theMaorilancl
soprano, Miss Rosina Buckmann, who appeared
here in Alfred Hill’s “Moorish Maid,” lifted up
her voice in song whilst Mr. Harris experienced
interludes. “A Summer Night” and “Three
Green Bonnets” were amongst the offerings she
put up to a thankful lot of receivers. Miss
Buckmann has been engaged by Mr. Allan
Hamilton for six months to tour with Leslie
Harris, and The Bulletin hopes the notes of the
singer with the fern-leaf in her hair will turn out
golden ones. Final performance of the present
co. will occur at the Palace on Thursday night.
* * its *
Mr. Frank E. Down’s more advanced
pupils gave a recital at Paling’s on Tuesday last.
A four-leafed shamrock—two girls and two young
men—ought to bring their teacher and themselves
good luck. Miss Alice Harker, a soprano, and a
very tuneful bird, Miss Ada Middenway, a con-
tralto of more than average promise, and Messrs.
W. Starkey (tenor) and F. Brand (bass) were the
warblers. Miss Brandon Usher, Mr. F. Mowat
Carter, and Mr. J. E. Sykes were the backing-up
artists, and the audience felt like gluttons at tak-
ing such a lot of real good musical food for
nothing.
* * its *
Sydney Tivoli programme underwent no
startling change last week. The performance
still nicely balances itself between juggling and
farce sketches, with just a little music in between.
* sic- * sk-
“F.R.” : Hugh Ward, discussing the art
of acting in Sydney Telegraph, is a refreshing
change from the average modern male actor, whose
thoughts don’t run to much beyond beauty culture.
Ward’s theories on his profession are, in short:
That idealism rather than realism should be the
aim (right; it is the pursuit of so-called “realism ”
which makes the yellerdrama); that the “stock
system ” is the best for training the actor, giving
him the chance to play a wide variety of parts;
and that the “starring” methods of the present
day do not tend to improve the intellectual
standard of the stage. All this is just and well
reasoned. But when Ward goes on to define
“individuality” and “personality” in stage-
craft, and to insist that the actor must use and
play upon an emotion rather than feel it, he goes
a little too far. Art at a certain point tends to
degenerate into artfulness. Mr. Ward says :
In portraying: suffering- the actor is really undergoing- a
pleasurable experience. The more successfully he reveals
the suffering to the audience, the greater is his enjoy-
ment. It would never do for him to really feel it. That
would at once weaken the strength of his performance.
The artist must never allow his emotions to govern him,
for emotions must be dominated by the brain. The
artist must use an emotion, as it were. He plays upon it.
Which recalls, in a way, the story of Tamagno—
thought by some to have been the greatest tenor
that ever lived. He didn’t understand cheques or
paper money, and insisted on his huge nightly fee
being paid to him in gold. A faithful ruffian,
hired by him, would then hold the gold bag in sight
of the artist while he went on to sing ‘Otello” with
such poignant emotion as to set the whole
house sobbing. Tamagno was “ standing out-
side the emotion
all right. Granted
to Ward that the
actor mustn’t allow
his feelings to run
quite away with
him, that the brain
must be in charge
generally, yet the
highest acting, like
the finest speaking,
must sometimes
come hot from the
heart., The actor
must sympathise
with his character
and be able, as the
stage term puts it,
“ to let himself.go”
on occasions. To
insist too strongly
on brain dominance
is to open the way
for, stilted conven-
tion and lifeless for-
mality.
DR. DANYSZ and his friend, M. Paul Wenz,
who acts as chaperon and interpreter.
“ Little Mary ” is for six nights only at
Melbourne Princess, and the local public will pos-
sibly be content to let Barrie’s comedy go when
its time is up. A wildly whimsical play-with-a-
purpose must be played to perfection by a speci-
ally-chosen company if it is to get the sympathy
of an every-night audience. The Brough-Flem-
ming Co. is only partly suited to “Little Mary.”
A less intelligent actress than Miss Winifred
Fraser might be a more winsome enigma in the
name part. The Earl of Carlton that Edgar
Payne presents seems an incomprehensible charac-
ter, owing to the actor’s unfitness for it. The
prologue is very dull, because J. F. Forde gives
no impression of a cranky old Irishman, and the
infatuation of the Earl’s son (Carter Pickford) for
a presumably young and sprightly staere-charmer
is not explained by the staid appearance of Miss
Emma Temple as the beloved one. She doesn’t
make up or act up to the requirements
of the part of a self-satisfied “ What-o,
Eleanor ! ” Garter Pickford, Miss Day, Miss
Lee and Philip Leslie are more happily
placed, also Herbert Flemming’s broad caricature
of the pompous medical magnate from London is
humorous in a conventional way. In fact, Sir
Jennings Pyke, M.D., looks soimportant that
one is left in doubt as to whether the dramatist
intended “Little Mary ” for a frivolous sermon on
the over-fed condition of England’s privileged
stomachstockcracy, or a bitter sneer at the over-
fee’d charlatans who cater for fashionable ail-
ments. Anyway, the comedy is a pleasant
corrective to “Dr. Wake’s Patient,” in which the
typical physician of melodrama figured as some-
thing almost too good and gifted for this world—a
sort of cross between a wizard and an angel. The
final week of the Brough-Flemming Co.’s success-
ful season begins on Saturday, when the advt.
will state the arrangements for the last nights.
The following Saturday brings “The Man from
Mexico.”
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) there was
a considerable shortcoming in the audience last
Saturday, and “The Dictator” wore an air of
disappointment. This Saturday another comedy,
“On the Quiet,” will be introduced by Collier
and Co. The title suggests a more roaring farce
than the one it is about to replace, and if the co.
can sprinkle the performance with a few
“damns” at opportune moments, the result will
doubtless be gratifying. In this country nothing
is so conducive to a Great Laughing Success as
the word “d n,” delivered in a very loud
voice, from the centre of the stage. Collier’s
voice is not very powerful, but he might score a
new point by putting the popular expletive
through a speaking trumpet.
** * *
Anderson’s latest attraction at Melbourne
R’oyal is called “Death or Glory Boys” because
the male characters are all of them disguised as
soldiers, who don’t threaten danger to any
civilised foe except their superior officer, the
villain Willard. Apart from the attacks on
Willard, it is a peaceful military drama for the
most part, and a painfully foolish thing at that.
Willard is shot dead by a young farmer (Geo.
Cross) in the first act owing to his refusal to marry
M iss Lane. She has previously scorned and
loathed him for his awful misconduct; never-
theless, her bucolic brother shoots him for
refusing to marry into the family, after
which the vengeful relative ceases the pur-
suit of agriculture and enlists as a private
in the regiment of Willard, who has come
back from the grave wickeder than ever. Also
he has carried Miss Lane to London, in conse-
quence of their mutual disaffection. Under the
circumstances, and considering his inhuman
method of walking, Willard deserves all the biffs
and insults he receives from his subordinates in
the course of his absurd career. He is seemingly
incapable of getting angry, although he would be
fully justified in poisoning the whole regiment.
Geo. Cross, Bert Bailey and Temple Harrison are
the principal lunatics next to Willard, and Miss
Duggan is an extraordinary heroine in a wide and
frequently tasteful range of costumes.
£|£ £|£
At Melbourne Town Hall to-night (Thurs-
day) the Orpheus Society performs
Gade’s canta.ta, . The Crusaders,”
with Madame Jansen as chief
soloist. And next Thursday the
Hall will'be wanted for a com-
plimentary concert to Zelman
senior—the old original Zelman —who wiil conduct
a full orchestra with the arm that has waved a
baton at two generations of instrumentalists. An
interesting item.in the proceedings will be a trio,
composed by the veteran, Zelman junior playing
the violin part.
** * *
The Melbourne Ice Kink, by Prince’s
Bridge, received its baptism of public skating
last Saturday night, and judging from the size of
the attendance on this first occasion, Melbourne
must have been wanting its Glaciarium pretty
badly. The skaters who slid, the novices who
tried their luck, and the onlookers who merely
considered the matter, made up a crowd of about
3000 citizens in all.
## * *
At Melbourne Athenaeum Hall the pic-
tures of West are mixed and various in character
this week. Last Saturday the biograph man
brought the apparatus to bear upon a football
match, in order that the devoted barrackers may
be tempted to come along and see their rival
champions chase the bounding leather o’er again
upon the sheet.
** * *
Two or three “turns ” have drifted from
the Opera House programme without reducing its
strength below the good average level. The
shapely, youthful-looking trapeziste and the
large, muscular boy Bertie (who are understood to
be mother and son) continue to perform graceful
feats and show legs in several degrees of clothing.
Larola is there, and Vasco, who blows trumpets
enough to shift the walls of Jericho; likewise the
flexible Three Lees, and the pair of sassiety
comedy sketchers, and other transitory individual
members of the co.
** * *
Miss Titfcel Brune has scored heavily at
Adelaide Boyal in “Leah Kleshna,” which is an
unpleasant Yankee arrangement of alleged French
manners. The whole second (or burglary) act has
the finest dramatic qualities, but the end of the
play pulls down its average, so to speak. Mervale
had his first big chance as the plucky, preaching
M.P., and Kingston for once took on a character
part as old Kleshna. Atholwood (who is gene-
rally somebody’s aged father) showed an unaccus-
tomed clean face as Schramm. The characters of
Camille, Juliet and La Tosca have given Miss
Brune excellent opportunities, but the man-
agement must have lost money by not
making her content herself with being
Dorothy Vernon and Leah. Adelaide is un-
beaten by any moderate-sized city as a supporter
“LITTLE MARY.”
J. M. Barrie, brig-lit and able,
Wrote a quaint dramatic fable
Touching- “ pleasures of the table”
And the misery they bring
To the folk of Birth and Breeding,
Who delight in heavy feeding—
Eating more than they are need n
O, Gorsave our Gracious Kin ; !
Now, that fable some are heeding-,
For we lately have been reading
Of the Simple Life they’re leading,
Like the daisies in the spring.
Little Mary, Little Mary,
Is the all-important thing.
She’s the latest social question,
Born of Barrie’s wise suggestion
Re the pangs of indigestion .
And the misery they bring.
If of health you’d be a winner,
You must get your carcase thinner
And reduce your daily dinner
To a moderate repast.
If your morning qualms you’d stifle,
Well, your mother or your wife ’ll
Just provide you with a trifle
To suffice for breaking fast.
At the luncheon hour a chap ’ll -
Come and take you out to grapple
With a biscuit or an apple ;
And when dinner comes at last
At the thought of Little Mary
Let your hunger pause aghast.
Let her tenderly he treated—
Lightly souped or fished or meated—
If your Mary’s overheated
Then your mind gets overcast;
You’re a dull, dyspeptic sinner,
For the regions dark and inner
Don’t accept a heavy dinner
As a moderate repast.


LUut
ItiU
Bookkeeping and Accountancy. Preparation for all
Examinations. Shorthand, Electrical Engineering, etc.
“ HOME STUDY,” Post Free.
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
MOORE STREET, STREET. [ll
1
|KO
IKOLA KOLA KOLA KOLA KOLA
CUP CUP CUP CUP CUP]
KOLA KOLA KOLA KOLA KOLA KOLA
CUP CUP CUP CUP CUPICUP
■AT 1
eL]\
kolalkolalkolal kolal Kola kola
UP CUP CUPICUP ICUPICUP
KO (kolaIkola I^IKOLA
FISHERS COMPANY}
A GREAT BUSINESS. KOLA-CUP going to the Railway Station.
INFLUENZA.
©6e Great
WINTER
TONIC.
KOLA-CUP warms up the whole system, repelling INFLUENZA, COLDS and
COUGHS. ’
Unlike strong spirits, KOLA CUP nourishes, and the effects are lastin'*-.
An excellent^DßlNK for Dyspeptics and Invalids.
All Hotels, 6d. per glass. All Chemists, 3s. and 4-S. 6d. per bottle.
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 George St., SYDNEY (opp. G.P. Ofirr).
of new plays, but has a very moderate appetite
for revivals. “ Sunday ” is finishing up the
season. The Corrick Family, after making Scotch
music for a Caledonian Society’s orgy, has occu-
pied the Town Hall for a week, assisted by
a Biograph which shamelessly pretends to
have been present when William Tell did his
shooting trick, and also to have accompanied
Marie Antoinette to the scaffold. But the best
local news is that the Bucking Horses have come
back.
Seddon—Some Personalities.
Richakd John Seddon died as he would have
wished—in the blaze of the limelight. He loved
the limelight, and its glare killed him. Had he
been able to take a holiday, as other men are able—
to retire quietly to some peaceful spot where men
knew not Seddon—he might, perhaps, have been
alive to-day.
There has been no Australasian figure regarding
whom such strongly diverse opinions were held as
Seddon. He was, in his lifetime, angel tp the
majority, devil to the minority. Now that he
is dead, the testimony of Massey, the dour
storekeeper who leads the Maoriland Opposition,
is that Seddon was “the ablest man that ever
took part in our legislation, the greatest man that
ever occupied the position of Minister of the
Crown here.”
That is saying
a good deal, for
Stafford, Weld,
Clifford, Fitz-
gerald, Grey,
Atkinson, Bal-
lance and Stout,
were all “big”
men. Yet Mas-
sey is probably
right, and there
is no question
whatever that
the men who be-
lieved Richard
Seddon capable
of any sort of
personal corrup-
tion were wrong.
It has often
been asked “Is
Seddon sin-
cere?” A man
listening to one
of his Jingoistic
speeches at a
Sydney function
the other day
said, “He can-
not believe
that; it is clap-
trap ’’; and it
is known that in
two great epochs
of his life Sed-
don was at first
opposed to the
policy which
afterwards was
peculiarly asso-
ciated with his
name. Ballance
and Hall, also
Stout, were out-
and-out believ-
ers in Woman s
Suffrage. Bal-
lance believed—
as the event
proved—that it
would have a
Radical ten-
dency. Hall be-
-1 eved in woman
as a Conserva-
tive element to check the growing Radicalism.
Stout took a sort of cold “academic” view. Seddon
was genuinely afraid of giving so emotional an
element as woman the vote in a country where
elections hinged often on “ a pub. or not a pub.”,
and parsons led the prohibitionists, But he
rapidly adjusted himself to the position, and has
been the apostle of Woman’s Suffrage ever since.
So with the sending of contingents to South
Africa. Seddon believed it to be a mistake to
interfere in Imperial wars, and at first held back.
Then Queensland stepped in with an offer.
Seddon saw the new situation, whooped up his
contingent and had it fighting before the other
fellows got there, and kept whooping up contin-
gent after contingent with the same expedition
and despatch. He was so strong on the contin-
gent question that he grew more and more Im-
perialistic as the years went on till he came to be
regarded as the champion Australasian J ingo.
That was where lie went most woefully off the
track, but there was a business side to his zeal.
He was out to advertise Maoriland, and he got it
the biggest sort of advertisement. After that
advertising the State was a fixed idea with him.
Soldiers, or footballers, or frozen meat, or himself,
he used them all in bold adverisement.
Seddon was essentially a fighting man. It is
told of him that the way he followed a mean
bully contractor who had defrauded his
men (and incidentally also Richard Seddon)
through the Alpine country, and thrashed the
coin out of him, first persuaded the West
Coast miners that this was the man for their
money. They put him on to the Road Board,
County Council, Provincial Council, and finally
into Parliament.
Some folk think that Seddon was an illiterate
man. He never went much on literature, but his
father was a schoolmaster, and he himself never
ceased studying something till the last day of his
life. It was first thought that Ballance had all
the ideas of the party, and that when those ideas
were worked out, after his death, there would be
nothing for Seddon to keep along with. But the
Ballance ideas were worked out long ago, and
Seddon never failed for fresh ones.
Throughout his life Dick’s sublime self-con-
fidence was a great help. Whatever doubters might
think of him as a political prophet, at any rate
believed firmly in himself, and believed
that what he held was the true democracy, and
the only thing for Maoriland. And where he
differed from the men on this side was that he had
the courage of his conclusions. Where our men
hesitate and temporise, Richard Seddon ploughed
through, knocking over men and ideas in his track,
but getting to his goal by the shortest cut.
When the Ballance Ministry came to power its
avowed object was “ to put an end to Bureaucratic
Government.” It began by sending the Under-
secretaries like chaff before a gale. Every docu-
ment, every decision had to come before the
Ministers. The very minutest details had to be
submitted to them. The old system was bad
enough, with the calls of the session, and its long
sittings, and the attendance at departments. It
had killed Atkinson for one. The new system
speedily killed Ballance, and presently killed
M'Kenzie. Only the fact that Seddon had the
frame of an elephant, the digestion of an ostrich,
and the industry of a whole tribe of ants,
prevented it from killing him long ago. The
way he worked was appalling. Believing
in the eight-hours day for the working man,
he worked himself and his secretaries right round
the clock. While the House sat ho practically
never left it, dealing with departmental papers
when things were slack, while secretaries and
heads of departments slipped in and out to him.
When something which aroused his attention
transpired he was all ears and eyes, fingering
nervously at his watch chain till an opportunity
came to speak, or biting at his moustache when
his feelings were deeply moved, messengers run-
ning at his call to the library for references.
When his time came it was as if a tornado had
broken loose on the heads of his opponents.
His one great failing to the end was that his
speeches were too long.
A GREAT MAN.—THE LATE RICHARD SEDDON.
The House would sit on till the smallhours of the
morning, and then, instead of sleeping, Seddon
would go on with his correspondence, dictating to
one shorthand writer after another. A couple of
hours sleep and a meal would see him back at the
departments, receiving deputations, seeing callers,
entering into business with under-secretaries,
presiding over Cabinet meetings, and finally back
to the House again. When the House was not
sitting, there were tours through the country,
with successions of meetings, and long lines of
deputations. Real rest Seddon never knew.
One peculiarity of the American “ boss ” Seddon
had developed on his own lines, and that was the
perfect organisation of his party. He knew the
“strength” of every man and his political
“ color” ; just how feeling went in every constitu-
ency ; and just how far he could rely on its repre-
sentative. Usually, the reliance could be absolute.
When he believed in a man he believed in him
wholly, and it took much to shake his belief. The
strong magnetism of the man fastened his fol-
lowers to him with something of personal affec-
tion. This is where he differed from his one-time
rival Stout. Stout was always the pedagogue.
He could not overcome the suggestion of supe-
riority to his henchmen, and he repelled as a
leader rather than attracted.
One good thing Seddon stood to all his life, and
that was his determination not to take a foreign
title. At various times pressure was brought to
bear on him to do so, but he always refused, no
matter how large the bauble, and preferred to
“ennoble” friends or colleagues—Ward, Steward,
McKenzie, Campbell, and so on, including the
Opposition leader, Russell. Mrs. Seddon was as
clear as her husband on this subject.
The popular character of his reception in Aus-
tralia was a constant source of surprise and delight
to Seddon. Thousands waited for his arrival and
departure wherever he went, and cheered him
heartily, and he always had a word of thanks
ready. “ Good old Dick,” “ Well done, Seddon,”
“ Kia ora, King Dick ” were to be heard on all
hands, and as he went away one old man
called, “There goes the saviour of Maoriland.”
This sort of thing delighted Dick, but it really
didn’t spoil him. Nor did it spoil his family—that
family which did so much to help Seddon. In all
the whirl of his life he maintained as closely as he
could his ideals of family life and the true “ mate-
ship ” between Mrs. Seddon and himself was a
source of real strength to him. All his sons and
daughters were devoted to him, and one of the
daughterswashisconfidentialsecretary. Adulation
was showered on them everywhere they went, yet
they are as natural and unspoiled to-day as they
were before their father became a celebrity ; and
there is not an ounce of snobbery in one of them.
A young Melbourne couple, in a madden-
ing search for the “ one cow’s milk ” medically
ordered for their first-born infant, have had to
trek to four different suburbs. Thrice has the
infrequent suburban cow gone dry on them. If
cow IV. sustains an attack of drought the baby’s
mother intends to migrate to a Western district
farm, where cow is more plentiful and well-
conducted. Of course, no modern medico would
think of losing a patient by prescribing the old-
fashioned way of avoiding all this travail.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Clever Bendigonienne Alice Crawford’s smaller sister
(Ruby) has found a place on the boards of the London
Court Theatre, where plays of the Bernard Shaw type are
mounted with considerable attention to detail. She
enacts the small part of a romp in the revival of the
graceful Pierrot play, “ Prunella.” The elaborate school-
ing obtainable at the Court should be the finest thing
imaginable for an untamed beginner, provided she
doesn’t stay there too long and drop into a groove.
“Milo,” of Australia, has been showing her figure at
the London Pavilion. Newspaper notices, so far as The
Bulletin has seen, are not favorable. Patrons, it seems,
expected a fleshly show, and as one paper bitterly ex-
pressed it: “What did they see? A series of statues,
cold, white statues, for all the world like the statues that
they neglect every day of their lives when they pass the
National Gallery. A very nice, strictly correct, highly
educational exhibition, which may be cordially recom-
mended to teachers, parents, and guardians.” “To
teachers, parents, and guardians.” That is bitter.
Tenor Caruso’s tale of the 'Frisco quake: The first
shock flung me out of bed. A moment later my piano
ran across the room. For a time I sat on my valise in the
middle of the street. Then I fled to Lafayette Park,
where the soldiers appeared to resent my attempt to
make myself comfortable and sleep. Under my arm I
carried a photograph of President Roosevelt, on which
was written: “ With kindest regards, Theodore
Roosevelt.” When the military refused to listen to my
pleadings, I showed them this, whereupon one of them
said, “ Oh, if you are a friend of 1 Teddy, come right on
and make yourself at home.”
“T.D.”: In Sterling Mackinlay’s just-published re-
miniscences, mostly about his ma, Antoinette Sterling,
he sadly twists what was probably the best yarn ever told
about that eccentric personage. According to Mackinlay,
an accompanist, when Antoinette was singing, “threw
his music down and exclaimed in a scathing voice—at
least, he meant it to be scathing—‘ Do you wish me to
play this song the way it is written, or the way you sing
it.’” Then, according to Antoinette’s son, that lady
“ turned and said, ‘Do you know who taught me to sing
that song? God. Play it as I sing it! ’” And Mackinlay
bathetically adds that the item was, “ We’re a-noddin’.”
But the thing that really did occur was between Madame
and the lamented Wiegand, at Sydney Town Hall.
Wiegand struggled hard for a time, then said, “Madame,
you do nod sing de musique.” She replied, “Monsieur,
I sing it as the Loard taught me.” “Sacr6,” exclaimed
Wiegand, “ then He must be a most bad musician.”
“B.”: Alf. Woods, according to latest accounts, was
seen in London. He was wearing a shining silk hat, and
looked like a prosperous stock-broker, except that his
hair was a little too long, as usual. Alf.’s object in
London has not transpired. It is possible he is going
to tell an enthusiastic gallery that “My God is not your
God,” and hit the other fellow in the abdomen.
That little bit of sentimental reflection with which
Camille presents a camellia to her lover is always spoilt
for anybody who remembers the experience of one star
actress in the scene. The lady suddenly discovered,
when on the stage, that she had forgotten to obtain the
necessary flower. She gazed meditatively around for a
substitute, but was baffled until she caught sight of some
celery on the supper-table. Snapping off a bunch of celery-
tops, she held them aloft and remarked in her most
pathetic tones—“lt is a rare flower, Armand ; pale, scent-
less, cold, but sensitive as Purity itself. Cherish it, and
its beauty will excel the loveliest flower that grows ; but
wound it with a single touch, you never can recall its
bloom or wipe away the stain.”
“ T.D.”, from London : Some of the Australian Conser-
vatorium products who have their eyes turned England-
wards, may look out for a very rude awakening when
they arrive here. There’s a heap of Art about England,
without a doubt, but man cannot live by Art alone, and
even the tall poppies of the musical profession in England
have to do things that the Melbourne or Adelaide Con-
servatorium pet would consider quite beneath notice, and
beyond redemption. Some time ago I felt quite hurt
when a concert agent suggested that, to fill in time in the
summer, I should take a few weeks’ engagement at an
unalluring seaside resort and sing under another name,
but I have since found that far worse than this happens.
Came back to London t’other week from singing oratorio
at a provincial town, and met a vocalist w'ho three or four
years ago made quite a triumphal progress through Aus-
tralia. Asked him what he would be doing in the
summer, and he said that he always spent
about six weeks with a “ costume quartette party, dis-
guised, and under another name, “Better than
loafing,” he remarked. Further inquiries showed that
the very thing I had turned Up my artistic noseat had
been avariciously collared by a well-known tenor, who
has repeatedly sung before Edward VII., and obtained
much boom in consequence, One of the leading festival
baritones in England was three years ago a giddy Pierrot
on the sands. He was already known as a church
organist and artistic pianist in London, but had deter-
mined to take up singing, and, after studying hard for a
couple of years, had to content himself with a start in
white calico duds set off with black pom-poms—a sort of
open-air song-and-dance business, with the hat passed
round amid the crowd afterwards.
Some of the “ gags ” in “ The Dictator ’’—the “ gags ”
that get most laughter from the least difficult section of
the audience—were introduced by William Collier without
the approval of Richard Davis, the writer of the comedy.
When the piece was taken to England, the author stipu-
lated with Collier for a perfectly “ legitimate ” perform-
ance. The excrescent “ gags ” were to be cut out. Davis
attended a rehearsal in order to satisfy himself that the
foreign matter had been eliminated ; and then he went
back to New York, a happy man, prior to the London
production of the show. But when the London notices
came to hand, he was the unhappiest Davis. One of
them quoted a line or two from the comedy as evidence
of its catchy smartness, and this quotation was a Collier
“ gag,” borrowed from the Yankee comic press. He asks
the “lurid widow Did your husband leave you
much?” and she replies, bitterly—“ Every night.” The
author’s contempt for that obviously interpolated bit of
dialogue is not more natural than Collier’s pride in it. It
fetches the loud necessary laugh every time.
“Philo”: Miss Wanda Radford, the clever Australian
child actress, who went abroad about two years ago, is
now appearing at concerts in London. Wanda was only
eight years of age when she left, and she had played in
“Beauty and the Beast,” “Dick Whittington and His
Cat,” and also under Rickards’ management. She is
known abroad as the “ Wonder Child.” She has appeared
in the largest theatres in the principal towns in Austria,
and her appearance in Berlin was received with enthusiasm
by the German press. I’ve seen the criticism of a select
Berlin journal. It said that, although it is getting tired
of witnessing performances by “ wunderkinder,” Wanda
Radford is something extraordinary, and went on to talk
about her performance in the nicest adjectives it could
find. It also said that many influential and wealthy
Germans have taken her up, and suggested that she
should be presented to the Kaiserina, and remarked that
she will “ shine for her native land—Australia.”
The Brescians appearing- with West’s Pictures, are re-
motely connected with the musical history of Melbourne.
Hayward, in tine Brescian co., is the son of a long-ago
Hayward, who was a partner in the original business that
afterwards expanded into Allan’s music warehouse, on
Melbourne Block. One of the three Italian lady Brescians
is Mrs. Hayward. She and her sisters are natives of
Brescia, hence the name of the co., which, on the male
side, is quite English, you know.
“Hamer”: The cheap amateur is a potent factor in
the depreciation of actors’ salaries in Australasia ; and
when he develops into a pro. himself he violently
curses the amateur who is treading in his footsteps. The
pro. is greatly to blame; he joyfully welcomes the
enthusiast whose premium supplies most of the funds for
a tour, and he hardly has the right to complain when the
amateur accepts a salary which is probably more than he
is worth artistically, but is much less than the average
qualified actor, whom he displaces, would accept. There
is hardly a show, travelling or metropolitan, in which the
amateur doesn’t awaken joy in the pocket of the manager
and horror in the brain of the stage-manager. I know of
one show—a large one—in which an amateur, engaged in
the slaughter of first rate parts, received a salary of 30s. a
week.
Robert Courtneidge, who scored with his London pro-
duction of “The Blue Moon,” has gone one better with
“ The Dairymaids,” of which he is part author. The
story gets away from the beaten track of musical comedy,
and the company is strong enough to carry it along the
new lines. Carrie Moore has made another great hit, and
an original sort of comedian, one Rolyat—getting his first
London opportunity under Courtneidge’s plucky manage-
ment —is knocking spots off the old traditional funny
men. Ambrose Manning, formerly of Wilson Barrett’s
co., has a good part in “ The Dairymaids,” and he also is
a comedian out of the common as regards musical-farcical
business.
“0.K.”: Dipping into “Recollections of Fred Leslie,”
published in ’94, am not surprised to find that the critics
of the big London journals were careful to give him only
mild praise, or no praise at all, until he was drawing a
salary of £25 a week. They are influenced by the
managers, more or less, and a manager disapproves
of a fine notice for an underpaid actor. It in-
spires him to stick out for higher wages. When
Leslie “created” (in English) the character of the old
Due in “Tambour Major” he was on the £lO mark, so
the newspapers treated him as a person of no import-
ance. He was screamingly funny and original in his
stage business. The Due’s remarkable trick of taking
snuff, which Harwood introduced to Australia two years
later, was copied from Fred Leslie. lie was already so
much of a public favorite that he got a big reception on
his first appearance in the part, but the London press
applauded him very gingerly. Yet his talent had
been conspicuous from the first. A small provincial rag
—the Kentish Independent —discovered him “ as a genius
unique in his way ” when he was a 19-y.ear-old amateur,
singing a couple of comic songs at the Assembly Rooms
in Woolwich, and before he was 21 the same local
authority credited him with playing “exquisitely ” as Sir
Peter Teazle. Previously, when he was hardly full-
grown, he got his first experience in “The
School for Scandal ” at the North Woolwich
Gardens, managed by the notorious Bill Holland, the
early father of “ barmaid shows,” and the originator pro-
bably of a good many barmaids. A memo, found among
Leslie’s papers after his death mentions Miss Susie
Vaughan (just now of the Williamson Dramatic Co.) as
one of his partners in this first experience. “ Playing Sir
Peter Teazle at the ‘ Theatre Royal Tea and Shrimps,’ as
Bill Holland calls it, my part was on the screen in the
centre of the map to which Sir Peter refers. Susie
Vaughan was the Lady Teazle, and she had her book, or
part, fastened behind her fan, so as to enable her to read
it off.” He was only 26 when he got a chance to play Sir
Peter at a matinee in London, with Mrs. Bernard Beere,
Beerbohm Tree, and other bright people in the cast.
But not being a high-priced actor at the time the critics
held him cheap, and this great character had to find
fame in extravaganza.
Moncure Conway’s autobiography gives a few glimpses
of W. S. Gilbert in his early years of success. On first
meeting Gilbert, Conway thought to please by mention-
ing that “ Pinafore ” was running at half-a-dozen theatres
in New York. The information evoked nothing but “a
just and solemn double d .” The Yankee productions
were all pirated, as were some of the early Australian
versions of “ Pinafore.” It was only by strategy (travel-
ling to America under assumed riames'and other compli-
cated devices) that Gilbert, Sullivan, and D’O.vly Carte
managed to work copyright intricacies so as to keep the
succeeding operas out of the clutches of American
thieves. Gilbert’s final conclusion was that the United
States would steal everything that wasn’t red-hot and
nailed down.
“ Melb.”: Some memories cling to a property announced
for auction. It is Lysterfield, at Narre Warren in the
Dandenong Mountains (Vic.), associated with W. S.
Lyster, the opera manager, Musgrove’s uncle. Here
he would enjoy his bucolic life, after the toil of get-
ting up great works like “Aida,” “La Juive,” or “The
Huguenots.” He delighted in taking Signora Squallini,
Signor Funicula and Signor Rumbello out there on Sun-
days and showing them his cows, pigs, and wheat. Yet
he didn’t come out of farming as well as Woodfield did.
Maud Milton (in Australia with Nora Kerin and Dora Rig-
nold; used to say she would sooner be a working farmer’s
wife than act with Irving, and she had acted with Irving
and knew the joy of it.
The first actress of native growth who went to
England from Australia was Eliza Winstanley. She
appeared at the old Theatre Royal, attached to the
Royal hotel, George-street, in 1835, as Volanta in “The
Honeymoon,” under Joseph Simmons’ management.
When she decided upon trying her luck on the London
boards Simmons gave her a letter of introduction to
Charles Kean, who gave her a show at the Princess’ as
Meg Merrilies. So marked was her success that Kean
engaged her, and for six years she remained a member of
his company. She was invariably named by Queen
Victoria for holiday performances at Windsor Castle.
After an absence of 30 years she returned to Sydney, and
died at Waverley in 1884. For many years prior to
her death she contributed to a London publication
Bow Bells, and was the author of “Shifting Scenes in
Theatrical Life,” and a Sydney romance, “ Twenty
Straws.”
After knocking for some years at the door of musical
England, one Australian instrumentalist, who was for-
merly of considerable tonnage as a teacher and performer
in these parts, decided to give his Muse up as a bad job,
and took to selling things commercially. He was so
successful that within a few months he was able to marry
in comfortable style. As a preliminary he went to
Somerset House, London, to obtain a special license,
dropped into conversation, and before he left had
succeeded in placing an order for a large quantity of his
commodity with the civil servant who sold him the
church’s blessing. The gleeful ex-musician parted com-
pany with a quite flabbergasted Tite Barnacle, who had
never had things sold to him in office hours before. But
what a lot of good commercial hustle has been running
to waste in the person of that musical light for all these
years.


Furred iSßins
Rabbit sKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNFIENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Woo / and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY .
A
A CAMERA
ATANYP fX ss, to £5O
CAN ALWAYS BE OBTAINED AT . . .
HARRINGTON’S
Photographic
Merchants
SYDNEY (Si BRISBANE.
Don’t be persuaded to purchase a Camera until you have perused our Illustrated
Catalogue, over 350 pages. Just drop a line on a postcard asking for copy—FREE.
Popular Price Cameras.
THE CRA CKSHO T 7/6
CANTOR .. 1016
METEOR .. 15/-
WINDSOR .. 211-
VICTOR NO. 1 30/-
VICTOR NO. 2 50/-
f
i
Hand
Stand
Pocket
Kodak
Plate
Film
Cameras
Cameras
Cameras
Cameras
Cameras
Cameras
%
i
High Grade Cameras.
VICTOR NO. 3 .. £3/10/-
FAVORITE.. .. S /5/-
VICTOR NO. 4.. 5/10/-
ANSCHUTZ .. 17/10/-
ROYAL RUBY .. 17/15'.
HELIAR .. .. 27/76
SOCIETY
Though the Melb. Zionists have abjured
Dowie, they still display a wall decoration of
pipes formed into the letters “S.P.” The initials
stand for “stinkpot,” the deposed Elijah’s
favorite cuss.
“ YOU ASK ME WHENCE THESE
WOUNDS.”
“ One of them called me a barefaced liar, an’ I
up an’ lets the three of them have it.”
“Percy, you are always too impulsive. The poor
man might not have noticed your moustache.”
Lerli ” (from Lon-
don) : Last week I got
a pass to view the
Royal Mews, or
King’s stables, at
Buckingham
Palace. Three
of us were
driven round
by an intelli-
gent little
chap, who
told us he was
a postillion.
We saw “ all
the King’s
horses, ” and
to one of my
companions,
an Australian,
who is a good
judge of
horse-flesh,
the show was
disappoint-
ing. He reck-
oned there
were only a
couple of the
nags worth
stealing, but
he said no
doubt the
King’s horses
are chosen for
quietness and
respectability
rather than
for other
qualities, as
it is a matter
of importance
that Ned should
not be killed or
hurt owing to fractious-
ness on the part of his
noble charger. Our guide
gave us an account of his hours,
lie commenced work at 6 a.m.,
and, with short intervals for meals,
kept on until 6 p.m.—that was, if not on
night fluty. When the Court was in London
he often did not knock off until 1 a.m., next
morning, having to start again at the usual
hour of 6 a.m. And the regal remuneration was—
Iwenty-five shillings a week and find your-
self!” J
9 9 * *
Ihe holiday curse is a prominent evil in
Queensland. On three successive Mondays in
Brisbane shutters have been up. At Gladstone,
from May 20 to June 5, the banks and public
offices were only open l-£ days. When Longreach,
Winton, and the western places carouse at a horse
meeting they take four days straight off. Each
centre has its annual carnival and spends about a
week m idleness and in beer. On the slightest
provocation a holiday is proclaimed. The Govern-
ment seldom refuses an application. And a vast
amount of compulsory idleness and a great deal of
voluntary rum are the result.
* * * *
A survivors of the ship’s company of
H.M.C S. Victoria (the first Australian warship;
it leached Hobsons Lay on JVlay 31, ’56, under
the late Capt. W. H. Norman, and was broken up
10 years ago) have celebrated in Melbourne the
jubilee of the old tub’s arrival. The Victoria was
employed for two years in the M.L. war; it
brought away Victorian gold-diggers who were
starving at the Port Curtis rush ; conducted search
parties for Burke and Wills to the Gulf of Car-
pentaria (Norman Town and River still bear the
captain’s name); rescued Captain Musgrove and
his shipwrecked crew from the Auckland Islands ;
and conveyed salmon ova to Tasmania, besides
doing a lot of Victorian coastal surveying. In 5 73
its lieutenant, G. A. Woods, was a member of the
whitey-brown cabinet of Cakobau Rex, in Fiji.
* * • *
Said, the fireman ; “Going to use plenty
of iron in the rebuilding of ’Frisco are they ? Well
the Yanks ain’t as clever as I thought they were.
Take it from me, iron is the silliest thing you can
use in a building.
Sam Hordern knows
a thing or two and
be takes none in
his. Once a fire
gets going the
girders get red
hot, and then as
soon as the water
touches them
they buckle up
like cardboard
and drag the
premises to
pieces. Saw
it happen at
Lawler’s fire
and dozens
of others.
Look at
Stedman’s
buildings
in York-
street. The first
wall to go was the
brick and iron one,
while the ones with
wooden beams are stand-
ing yet with the wood
hardly charred. If ever
you’re building, bar iron, and
stick to wood; good old Australian hardwood
for preference. When ironbark girders burn,
well—there’s no building worth worrying over
left. I wouldn’t let my wife attend a bar-
gain sale in some of those rag shops for all
the tea in China. Take it from me if ever ’s,
or ’s, or ——-’s, catch, well, I’m either para-
lytic drunk or in bed with a broken leg. I’m not
going to attend that fire.”
IN GREAT TROUBLE.
POLICEMAN: “Move, on, now! You’ve been here
an hour.”
BLUSHING FRAGMENT: “ I’m only waiting till
there's no one in the chemist’s. My wife sent
me to buy a feeding-bottle.”
The picture of the family life of Nicholas
Walpole Raven, who was lately charged in Sydney
with shooting at his son-in-law. is vaguely sug-
gestive of some of the households that Dickens
used to depict. Nicholas was 67, and said that his
family was disobedient and unruly; and some of
the family entered against him a counter-charge
of having a wild expression in his eye. Nicholas
said he had been married 37 years, and had been
miserable for 36 years and 10 months. This Raven
ought to be a tall, dark, thin man with a specldess
black suit just shading off to green, a tall collar,
a precise umbrella, and a slow and very perpen-
dicular manner of walking. His son-in-law,
who got in the way of a flying shot, bore
the front name of Percy. He couldn’t help
being Percy, but somehow he raises a vision
of a smaller and less dignified man than
old Raven, dressed in newer clothes, but in a suit
that looks more like slops, with a louder tie, and
more the aspect of a gent who travels in the tea
business. There is a sort of feeling that Percy
might be capable of wearing checks. Jane
Raven, aged 30, seems to have kept her parent in
some subjection, and to have called him “pa” in
a firm voice. In a general way she creates a
picture of a woman with a commanding eye and a
brown frock. One would expect her to have thin
lips and low-heeled boots. Matilda Raven also
seems to have been in the habit of calling out
“ pa ” ; but somehow she suggests a younger and
more amenable girl than Jane—a girl with a blue
frock, hair not quite so straight as Jane’s, and a
less commanding eye. On the whole, there is a
feeling that a lost dog would sooner go home with
Matilda than with Jane. It was Jane who says
she smote pa manfully on the head with a stick in
the course of the disturbance. A son, John, is
mentioned by old genteel-looking Father Nicholas
as being an unruly customer and a cause of strife.;
but John hardly appears in the picture. He
leaves a vague impression that he probably
smokes cigarettes, and not much beyond that.
Possibly he reads the sporting papers, but this is
mere suspicion.
The strangest story up to date of the evil
results of Dead wood Dick literature was told last
week at Ballarat. The accused (he was charged
with the usual comprehensive “insulting be-
havior ”) was a young man on whom a longcourse
of Dick had had a quite unusual effect. He hadn’t
gone bushranging or tried to shoot anybody with
a pea-rifle. He had just sunk gradually into the
slush of oblivion, until he lost all facial expression
and could neither hear, speak, nor do any of the
simplest acts of daily life. He made a strange,
gurgling sound when shaken, but that was all—
he was a blank and a gurgle. He had simply lost
the run of himself, and couldn’t even say “boo ”
on his own responsibility. The victim of the
pernicious Dick is now in Ararat lunatic asylum
with his vital spark extinguished, it would seem
permanently.
Sitting in divorce, in Melbourne last week,
Acting C. J. A’Beckett gave a couple of reserved
decisions which seem to call for a good deal of
explanation. Both petitions were based upon
desertion, and in each case the desertion had been
preceded by a mutual agreement to separate. In
case No. 1 the defaulting wife had, on separation,
agreed to take charge of the two children, and to
keep certain furniture for their use. She sold the
furniture and returned the children to her husband.
“Thus” said his Honor, “she had set the deed
at naught in such a way that the Court should not
regard her as acting under it in absenting herself
from her husband.” Desertion proved and
decree granted. In case No, 2 the defaulting
husband had agreed to let his wife have
the custody of their child, and to pay 7s. a week
for its maintenance. He had failed to materialise
with the 75., “but,” said his Honor, “non-
performance of a husband’s obligations under
a deed of this kind does not deprive it of its effect
as a license to him to live apart, which put an
end to desertion.” Decree refused. Each re-
spondent had failed to keep the sole material
obligation of the separation contract —the hus-
band’s default being the worse of the two. Yet
the husband gets his release, the wife doesn’t.
Why?
* * * *
“Brumby,” from the Far South :
The one-horse so-called city of Hobart boasts a very
one-horse fire brigade system. In lieu of engines there
are several reels scattered at various points about the
town. On an alarm being raised, the neighborhood of
each station is rudely disturbed by the clatter of vans,
dealers’ carts, and vehicles of every description, all madly
racing to the reel shed. The owner of the prad first un-
harnessed and hitched to the reel gets paid for the ser-
vices of his moke ; the others get the benefit of exercise
and fresh air as their sole remuneration. At such
times a wild figure issues from a certain office,
generally coatless, sometimes hatless, and always
breathless, but never quite headless, and pursues the
flying' reel, like a demon chasing a cool drink. If possible
he clambers aboard it, but as a rule when he does so he
promptly falls off again. He has as great a gift for falling
off things as one-time Vic. Governor Erassey. This swift
and enthusiastic citizen has no connection with the local
brigade, but constitutes himself supervisor of the attack
on the flames. His services and advice are given
gratuitously; as also is the lavish display of
his talent for falling off. He is indefatigable.
The spectators cheer him as he climbs out on
a beam, chopping away at the end, or shouting orders to
the firemen, and wait in weird expectancy for him to
fall off. When this happens the applause is overwhelming
and the encore insistent. The firemen are always too
busy to take any notice of him, excepting to occasionally
soothe him with the hose, or see he doesn’t get misla'd
or smothered in the debris when he falls off. It’s refresh-
ing to witness such energy in Slowbart.
A SOFT ANSWER, Ac.
STERN PARENT: “I can’t see what the deuce you
women Wear these big sleeves for. You can't
fill them.”
DAUGHTER: “ Well, but, daddy dear, do you fill
your tall hat ?”
What a gaudy farce is the inspection of
shipping gear, etc., in Melbourne ! The Mel-
ville Island sailors having complained, in addition
to other trifles, of the alleged unseaworthiness of
their ship’s solitary boat, Captain Deary, inspector
of shipping, examined the vessel and reported to
the Marine Board that all was as it should be.
Seamen’s representative Belfrage asked him if the
boat would carry all the crew. “It is a matter
of measurement,” he replied ; “ the boat is licensed
for 25, the crew numbers 23.” Belfrage: “It is
stated that the boat is so dry and leaky that the
paint ran through the seams when she was painted'.
Did you lower the boat into the water ?” “I did
not consider it necessary. I did not see any open-
ings.” (! !) Here the chairman chipped in that it
was a matter for the whole Board to decide, and
the Board, being mostly shipowners and retired
skippers, decided that Deary’s “inspection ” was
quite satisfactory. But the sailors may not think
so when they lower their only hope of safety—if
it hasn’t been previously washed away—into a
heavy sea in the midst Of a howling gale, and the
only hope has such a narrow margin of security
that it is only supposed, at its very best, to have
room for two more.
THE SONG OF THE HEARSEMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The members of the New York Hearsemen’s Un : on
hive gone out on strike.”— Cable Item.
Hear ye the dirge of the Hearsemen ? Muffled the minute
bell swinge th —
In tune to their dolorous chanting, muffled and eerie it
ringeth !
Dong 1 Then a minute elapses. Dong !it resumeth its
knelling,
For the sad-visaged Hearsemen are angry and the deso-
late Mutes are rebelling.
Our calling is old as the Nations—
Of old we were honored and paid
A wage that would keep us in rations,
As we worked at the corpse-shifting trade.
Dong ! Ah, woe !
’Twas long ago !
We were worthy the wages they gave us !
And the wages they gave did suffice
To feed and to clothe and to shave us,
And enable our wives to look nice !
Dong ! Alas !
Good times will pass 1
Gone are the days when we flourished—
When the death-rate was simply sublime ;
When our members were fewer and nourished
Noidread of that bogey, “Lost Time.”
Dong 1 Ah, well,
The death rate fell!
By the great law that governs all wages—
The law of Demand and Supply—
We simply can’t live if outrageous-
Ly bad men are unwilling to die !
Dong 1 Please “ peg ! ”
Come, shake a leg !
But they won’t 1 Every hoary old buffer
Not only’s not passively well
At sixty, but daily grows tougher,
Till we’ve simply been forced to rebel.
Dong! by gum,
It had to come !
We have reckoned it out upon paper—
If three per cent, more were to “ snuff ”
We’d have reason to sing and to caper,
For then we’d get wages enough.
Dang ! Die do !
We want you to !
To bury you all we are longing—
(Don’t look on us, please; with dislike;,
By refusing to die you are wronging
The lachrymose Hearsemen on strike.
Dong ! You’re slow !
Catch chills and go !
This is the song of the Hearsemen; of the wights of the
gabardine sable ;
It is sung to the dolorous clamour of bells ; it is sung to
enable
Lay people to know how to help them—(and their helping
will surely uplift them).
.HI that they have to do is the dying, and the Hearsemen
will stand by to shift them.
M.L.
SING. S. CLARK.


URGENT, MOST URGENT. |
OVERCOATS
THE VERY BEST
TO MEASURE
R. C. HAGON,
King St., Sydney.
55/-
Patterns,
Fashions,
Post Free.
The buxom Princess of W ales was, no
doubt, responsible for the non-appearance of her
little spouse and the members of the British
Embassy at that bull slaughter in Madrid which
was a gruesome feature of the Royal marriage
“rejoicings.” Princess May is of the same mind
as Queen Alexandra on the question of murderous
sports. Having spoken her mind against pigeon
shooting in England, she wasn’t likely to go and
witness the public disembowelling of bulls in
Spain. Strange that the Spaniards of to-day,
like the Romans of old, expect no refinement of
feeling from their womenkind where brutalising
spectacles are provided as tests of manly skill and
courage. Apologists for bull-fighting laugh at
the idea of it being prohibited in countries where
prize fighting is a popular entertainment. But
women don’t attend at glove fights. They are
practically barred by public sentiment. Men
have persuaded them that the Sex has changed its
nature since the days when Roman women used
i turn their cruel thumbs down in response to the
wounded gladiator’s appeal. The pretence of an
inherent tenderness of heart has become unalter-
able with women in progressive countries—and
habit is second nature.
* * * *
“ Snell ” sees a woman :
The other afternoon a woeful woman had possession of
Melbourne city centre for an hour and a half, and excited
more interest and collected a larger following than a per-
forming bear. She vvas short, and fat, and close up to 40,
and when I struck her first she had a pitch in Bourke-
street in front of Cole’s Arcade, and was standing in the
gutter, lifting up her voice and blubbering like a lost boy.
She was already turkey-red and swollen with grief, and
literally wet through with her own tears. What was the
matter with her nobody knew, and she was deaf to sym-
pathy. She said never a word, but howled straight
ahead, and a large crowd collected and gazed steadily.
The giant policeman, finding the street blocked, inter-
vened in the execution of his duty, and ordered her to
move on. She offered no protest at all, but turned away
and moved towards Elizabeth-street, still weeping in a
loud manner, and the crowd went after her. Then she
paraded the principal streets, holding her long skirt in
one hand and her umbrella in the other, and crying deso-
lately at the top of her sob, and an accumulating crowd
went after her. Now and again she stopped on the kerb,
and was half expected to go round with the hat presently,
but there was no hat, no collection, no explanation-
nothing but woman and weep. The last I saw of her she
was heading up Little Collins-street, with her faithful
crowd still in attendance, and still blubbering, although,
according to all computations re the amount of moisture
in the human woman, she should have run dry an hour
before.
The Bulletin notices in this par an entire absence
of any effort on “ Snell’s ” part to assist his dis-
tracted fellow-creature.
* * * »
Edward Dyson’s “ Roaring Fifties ” seems
to have got a move on, although the publishers
merely dumped the book down upon the
Australian market, and left it to its own devices.
They did not even supply the usual press copies
for review, but seem to have expected readers to
know what the novel was about by the grace of
Heaven or something. Despite this, however, the
Melbourne supply was entirely exhausted within a
week of the book’s Australian appearance, and it
is now unobtainable pending the arrival of further
orders.
“ Yarrum ” : Be the new syllabus adopted
by theN.S.W. Education Department. Writer
is of opinion that it has come to stay, and that
it will prove a great success. Go into any
of our schools nowadays, and note the smiling
faces, and the free and easy attitude of the
children. It is not as in olden times when
unfortunate youngsters had to sit
stiff as pokers. Nature , study,
like all other good things, can
be carried too far. But in itself
it is good. And how the
youngsters attend on drill
days, and how well and
cheerfully they go
through the exercises !
The breathing exer-
cises practised must do
an incalculable amount
of good, if carried out
ju d i cio usl y. Have
tried them on myself,
and have put on three
inches of chest in as
many years ; and that,
too, after I had fancied
I was “set,” and
couldn’t grow any
more. Apropos : A
drill instructor assured
me that any man can
be 4in. bigger by
taking breathing exer-
cises than he would be
otherwise. He him-
self, with legs like
pipe-stems and a waist
like Melba’s, goes 40
round the chest without expanding.
H.M.S. Powerful, flagship of the alleged
Australian squadron, which twice broke down in
its innards on the voyage out from England, tried
some more monkey tricks the other day, and held
up Sydney Harbor traffic for an hour or so. It
slipped its buoy in Farm Cove, en route for Fiji,
and backed slowly astern to swing into the fair-
way. Then it took the bit in its mouth, and,
amid much bellowing of officers and clanging of
gongs, careered away, wrong end first, across the
harbor for Kirribilli Point. It pulled up just in
time to avoid poking its propeller through the
best parlor window of the Admiral’s residence,
and sulked, while the ferries looked on and offered
a “tow.” Next it insanely veered round and
njado a bee-line for Milson’s Point, but thought
b>_ „ .eiof landing there, and sulked some more.
While the traffic was dodging in all directions for
safety, the big, useless brute woke up again
and wallowed back across the stream with
the apparent intention of climbing into
the tram sheds at Point Macquarie. The
excitement was tremendous while it lasted, and
the spectacle of his Majesty’s armor-plated insti-
tution wandering over the face of the waters like
an iron lunatic made the deck hands of passing
Ky ferry-boats grow supercilious. But after
ing round for about 65 minutes our armed
defender collected its senses and departed with
dignity.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
SAME THING.
J OHN: “ Where to, sir?” THE BRUTE: "Oh, drive to hell .”
SUFFERING W IFE: “ Home, John.”
“ Squidge ” writes :
Have had a look at the Jap training squadron, and was
struck again with their imitativeness. Their ships, from
stem to stern, are imitations of the British. They have
not even names of their own for things, but have adopted
the British names holus-bolus—the ward-room, the gun-
room, the cabin, the mess, etc. Their officers are admirals,
and captains, and commanders, and lieutenants, and
midshipmen. Only when they commence to work their
ships does the likeness to a British ship cease. Then
there is a lack of precision and smartness.
EXCUSABLE.
MANAGER (to late messenger): “You’ve been
away over half an hour, and only to go round
the corner!”
MESSENGER: “ Please, sir, a man dropped half a
sovereign in the gutter.”
M ANAGER: “ And did it take half an hour to
find it? ”
M ESSENGER: “ Please, sir, I had to wait till the
man went away.”
The Melbourne jury-squarer has become
too reckless altogether. At the recent sessions
Judge Eagleson noticed an unusual and very
public buzzing-round of suspicious characters, and
spoke words of warning to the jury. Then one
of the 12 remarked casually that he had been
“ approached,” and pointed to two women in court
as the offenders; these amateurs didn’t even
know that the wise squarer doesn’t wait to be
needlessly identified. As their only defence was
to breathe heavily, Judge Eagleson assessed the
punishment at three months right away,
* * * *
One Ballarat councillor bucks against the
erection of more statues in the streets of the
garden city, because abusive Socialistic orators
use the pedestals as rostrums from which to deliver
orations vilifying councillors and other eminent
men. “ Next of all,” cries Councillor Pearse, with
horror in his eyes, “they will be attacking the
King!” But another statue to the honor and
flory of S’African contingenters who were slain
y enteric and exploding meat tins is to go up, on
condition that it has a sloping pedestal on which
ill-disposed persons cannot stand to abuse Coun-
cillor Pearse and the King, or the great god,
Cohen. It strikes The Bulletin as only right
and fair that a statue to the farm-burners of Vic-
toria should have a sloping pedestal—so many of
them have sloped from the missus and the kids
since they came back. This paper reckons that
the whole statue should slope.
The luck of criminals! Richard Henry
Rad cliff e and Samuel Borger stole a cart in Bris-
bane (theft I), burglariously entered a warehouse
and annexed a safe (steal II), lifted some tools
from a blacksmith’s shop (embezzlement III), and
then repaired to a quiet spot (which was trespass)
and burst open the safe (which was wilful damage
to property). The case was clear, and all Rad-
eliffe could say was that he was a hard-working
man. Justice Real seemed so much impressed by
the rugged energy of this statement that Borger
also said he was a hard-working man. Justice
Real sent for their records, and after poring over
them found that they had put in about one-third
of their lives in gaol. Radcliffe said what he
meant was that he was a hard-working man when
out of gaol. Borger added that he worked dashed
hard when he was in gaol also. For some reason
Justice Real seemed touched, and by way
of pressing the matter home Radcliffe said
again that he was a hard-working man. The
judge seemed still buried in thought, and Rad-
cliffe, for fear his last remark had passed
unnoticed, mentioned in a louder tone that he was
a hard-working man. Then the Judge came to a
decision, and let them off with 12 months —four
months for each steal. It was such a large dis-
count off the expected seven years that Brisbane
criminals have decided to all state that they are
hard-working men.
♦ * * *
“ Itan ” writes :
Re par (B. 24/5/’O6) about girl being sent to Darnley
Island as teacher of aborigines without knowing the con-
ditions, there is another side to the question. All the
circumstances were explained to her before she left Bris-
bane, and she was given the chance of perusing the
reports of her predecessors. When she returned to Bris-
bane, she gave as her reason for throwing up the pest
that the place was too lonely. No other complaint was
urged. Darnley Island is not by any means the worst
outpost of the State, and there are several female teachers
doing such work as this girl undertook to do.
A symptom of the lawyer’s shamelessness
in the matter of exactions is that he airs legal
sharkiness in public as a sort of good joke. Law
students did well in rowing, said Judge Back-
house in Sydney last week, because “ they had a
longer reach and more grip ” than other men.
TO A BEAUTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Potter collected all his tools—
“ A charming maid for man to wed ! ”
Then under his breath the Potter swore :
“ I’ve clean forgotten the brains ! ” he said.
TAS.
LANGOUSTP.
THE HONEY MOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A lattice, creeper twined, that opens wide and high ;
One ragged wind-blown palm against an opal sky.
Beyond a line of white—the sand ; a gleam of blue—
the sea ;
With shifting undertow of weed the waves make melody.
Now flames the West to sunset’s pomp, now pales the
vault above,
Down droop the lids o’er weaned eyes that have grown
wise in love.
Daylight has faded from the shore like Youth that flies
too soon —
But o’er the silver water-way rises the Honey Moon.
QUEENSLAND
M. FORREST.
Never Wanted to Eat.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“After weeks at the Sydney Hospital, the
doctors told me that nothing- would ever cure my
Indigestion,” said Mrs. Nellie Goodhead, 75
Albion St., Surry Hills, Sydney. “For close on
eight years I had to stop and think over what I’d
eat and what I wouldn’t. In the end, I could get
nothing agree with me. After every meal, the
pains in my chest were simply unbearable. In
fact, I was in misery every hour of the day.
Headaches alone almost drove me frantic. At
night, I tossed from side to side, and could not go
to sleep. I lost all heart, and dragged through
the days more dead than alive. I was too weak
to stand when I started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People. In less than a month they
cured me, and I’ve never had a sign of Indigestion
since.
“ Morning after morning, I woke utterly tired
out,” said Mrs. Goodhead. “ There were pains all
down my legs, and my back was breaking. Most
days I was too sick and miserable to get about.
There wasn’t a spark of my old energy about me.
I grew tired of people telling me how wretched I
looked. At times my face looked yellow. My
eyes were dull and heavy, and often I was too
drowsy to keep them open. Every day it was
harder for me to see things about the house. I
felt as if I must rest every little while. When I
sat down to the table, the very smell of the food
put me off eating. It was cruel trying to force
things down. Every mouthful turned sour on my
stomach and set me belching wind. Hot bitter
water used to rush up my throat, and leave a vile
taste in my mouth. I tried everything that
people said was good for Indigestion. But every
clay I went from bad to worse. |
“Under my shoulder blades got sore and
tender. There was a pain there day and night
that I could never get rid of. At times it was just
as if something sharp was cutting me through and
through. If I ate only a biscuit or two, I felt as
if I’d eaten too much. No matter what I
swallowed it never seemed to get any further
than my breast bone. There it would stick and
burn for hours. It was a gnawing pain that
nothing could ease. A ton weight seemed to bo
pressing on my chest so that I could hardly
breathe. Often I felt that I would smother.
Half the day I went through pain that amounted
to agony.
“When this went on month after month, I
began to lose heart,” Mrs. Goodhead went on.
“ Everything seemed to be going against me. I
started to worry, and could never throw off an
uneasy anxious feeling. My nerves were all on
edge. I hardly ever got a good night’s sleep.
For hours I tossed and turned. At last, out of
sheer weakness, I might drop into a heavy doze—
but next morning I always felt like a wrung out
rag. As soon as I lifted my head from the pillow,
it started to thump. The pain used to shoot
through my temples, and then settle just over my
eyes. The doctor said it all came from my
stomach. He never knew what might happen
when I had one of my bad bilious attacks. As it
was, my heart fluttered till I had to gasp for my
very breath. Often I was afraid that it would
burst. I was always in mortal terror that Heart
Disease would take me off without a minute’s
warning.
“ The doctor could see that I was failing every
day, and he got me to go to the Sydney Hospital,
in Macquarie St.,” added Mrs. Goodhead. “At
the end of a month, I was even worse than the
first day that I put my foot inside the gates. I
was barely able to drag my legs after me. If it
hadn’t been for my old friend, Mrs. Ellis, I don’t
know what would have happened. She said that
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills built her up when she
was every bit as bad. Nothing would do her but
that I should send to Pattinson’s for some there
and then. I did—and I hadn’t been taking them
a week before I was on the mend. I was hungry
an hour before meal time came round. Best of
all, whatever I ate agreed with me. Every day I
picked up in strength. I was able to sleep the
night through, and got up in the morning ready
to look after my house again. I took a. fresh
interest in everything about me—something I
hadn’t done for years. When I had finished my
last box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I never
remembered being so well. It’s going on three
years since I left them off—but I’ve had splendid
health all that time.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People can
never fail to cure Indigestion because they go
right to the root of the trouble in the blood.
Bad blood is the cause of all common diseases like
anaemia (bloodlessness), eczema, paleness, head-
aches, neuralgia, sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago,
backache, kidney complaint, liver trouble, bilious-
ness, dyspepsia, general weakness, and the special
ailments that only women-folk know. Bad blood
is the one cause—and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
the one cure, because they actually make new
blood. They do just that one thing, but they do it
well. They don’t act on the bowels. They don’t
bother with mere symptoms. But, of course, you
must get the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People—2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
from chemists or storekeepers, or sent, post free,
by the Dr. Williams’Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney. Medical advice given, and proper diets
recommended.
“ I have seen more loafers in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, in an hour than I have seen
during all my time in Maoriland ” — Premier Dick
Seddon.


TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in tlie Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
Dunlop Packings
Are guaranteed to wear well
You will find the Quality & Price right.
■Send for illustrated catalogue.
The DVrtLO P RUBBER. CO. of AUJS.LTD,
106 FLIMDgR.3 JT. AELBOURtfiRfr AU- STATES.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
From an Australian insurance man in London :
—“ It is still very difficult to get good information as to
the losses of the English offices through the ’Frisco
disaster. Of the offices known in Australia, the State Co.
has intimated that it will call up £2 per share, which
means £200,000 ; the ’Frisco liabilities are roughly put at
£245,000. The National Union is very lucky to be prac-
tically out of it; it will not lose more than £5OO. The
London Assurance had particularly hard fortune ; it took
over the Californian business of the Imperial Co., and so
had a liability there of £1,400,000. The London and
Lancashire had its annual meeting this week ; the
chairman said that half the reserve fund had gone.
This would mean £1,090,000. The estimate is pro-
bably too liberal; and the chances are that at the next
meeting the chairman will congratulate the shareholders
on being £lOO,OOO or so better off than had been expected.
The Union is a heavy loser. The Western of Toronto, an
energetic American office, formerly (if not now) con-
nected with Australia by treaties, has had a run of
knocks first Baltimore, then Toronto, now ’Frisco.
After the Baltimore and Toronto fires this co. had to
reduce its capital by £200,000 ; at the same time it issued
new stock for the same amount. Officials of the Com-
mercial Union and Alliance co.’s say, so far, that they
will pay legal claims only ; and losses by earthquake are
not covered by policies. Few underwriters, however,
believe that any co. will risk the unpopularity involved in
taking this stand. The Liverpool, London and Globe
announces that it will not lose quite £1,000,000 ; the
Royal mentions a possible £1,350,000. Royal Exchange
shares fell from £321 to £275, London Assurance from £74
to £SIJ, Liverpool, London and Globe from £53 to £45.
“ It is the position of Continental (especially
German) treaty offices which worries London under-
writers most. Four-fifths of all the reinsurance that
English offices now do is done with these foreign con-
cerns ; and as the latter also reinsure heavily for Ameri-
can offices, the English offices scarcely know where they
are. One or two huge Continental concerns are said to
be in a tight place. English people, like a good many
Australians, have supposed that when they insured
with an English office they were really giving their
business to English people, and they are staggered to
find that in some cases three-tourths of it is transferred
to some German co. of which they never heard.”
* * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania (Launceston,
Tas.): —
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
May, 1899 £4460 5 per cent. =£3991 £469 £25,364
Nov., 1899 4577 5 ~ „ 3991 586 25,950
May, 1900 5528 5 ~ „ 3991 1537 27,487
Nov., 1900 5462 { s Wri ” en & - 26,958
May, 1901 5052 5 per cent. = 3991 1061 28,019
Nov., 1901 5139 5 „ „ 3991 1148 29,167
May, 1902 4472 5 „ ~ 3991 481 29,648
Nov., 1902 4479 5 „ ~ 3991 48S 30,136
May, 1903 4908 5 „ „ 3991 917 31,053
Nov., 1903 4699 5 „ „ 3991 70S. 31,761
May, 1904 5247 6 „ „ 4789 458. 32,219
Nov., 1904 5438 6 „ ~ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905 5291 6 „ ~ 4789 502 • 33,370
Nov., 1905 5752 6 „ „ 4789 963 34,333
May, 1906 5696 off 1000} ~ 34 - 240
The profits thus show a slight decline, and through the
writing of £lOOO off premises the reserves show a slight
decline also. The paid-up capital is £152,040, and on this
and reserves combined (reserves as at beginning of the
half-year) recent earnings have been at this rate per
annum :
May, 1901 .. £5 12 11 p.c. May, 1904 .. £5 14 2 p.c.
Nov., 1901 .. 514 2,, Nov., 1904 .. 518 1 „
May, 1902 .. 418 9,, May, 1905 .. 514 5 „
Nov., 1902 .. 418 7,, Nov., 19 5 .. 6 4 1 „
May, 1903 .. 5 7 9 „ May, 1906 .. 6 2 3 „
Nov., 1903 .. 5 2 8 „
The decline in earnings is a very slight one,- but
even for that slight decline there is no visible reason to
be found in the balance-sheet itself. In fact, going
merely by the figures, profits ought to have improved ;
there has been more business, only apparently it has
been less profitable business. Comparing this half-year
with the last one—the one when the earnings reached the
top—the principal figures are as follows :
Nov., 1905. May, 1906.
Deposits (at interest) .. £247,307- £254,724 Inc. £7,417
Deposits(notatinterest) 239,500 280,850 ~ 41,350
Advances 532,573 550,403 „ 17,830
Notes 59,783 60,365 „ 582
Cash on hand .. .. 162,753 197,414 „ 34,661
Bills .. .. .. 5,961 8,894 „ 2,933
State Securities.. .. 25,000 25,000
This shows that the National Bank of Tasmania had
£7417 more deposits to pay interest on this half-year than
last, but on the other hand it had £17,830 more money
out bearing interest, which should have been a desirable
position. Also, its bill-discounting business apparently
increased, and though it has more money on hand not
earning interest this half-year than last, all this money
and more came to it in the shape of non-interest bearing
deposits. Apparently, therefore, lending rates have
fallen in Tasmania more suddenly than deposit rates.
It is the old trouble —the lack of vigorous and growing
manufactures which want to borrow lots of money on
good security to shove the business along, and which will
make glad the banker’s soul with plenty of sound
commercial paper for discount. The National of Tas.
occupies a very strong position as regards the proportion
of cash to liabilities, but if the position were £lO,OOO or
£20,000 weaker it would still be strong enough, and the
profits would be greater.
•* * * *
H.W. (Perth): Yes; but how do you know
that the other office’s report was satisfactory ? Until
that is proved, can see no scandal... .Anxious : No, the
High Court decision doesn’t amount to that at all: Ais
still liable to the extent of his guarantee. But it is not
good business for banks to allow an overdraft to run so
long under those conditions Ballarat: Of the two,
prefer the Mutual Life Association.
* * * *
Sydney Meat Trade’s Journal, struggling to
minimise the revelations about the American meat scan-
dals, throws this brick :—“ We hold no brief for Chicago,
but we do not believe in taking for gospel the writings of
a man who is an avowed Socialist.” Admitting that the
author of the “ Jungle,” who started the investigation, is
a Socialist, it is rather foolish policy to raise the theory
that Socialism and clean meat go together, and that
Toryism and decayed sausage are^one.
The Australian Mont-de-Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. Limited (Melbourne):—
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
April, 1900.. £799 8 per cent. =£B6s £1,642
Oct., 1900.. 1018 8 „ „ 865 £153 1,695
April, 1901.. 693 8 „ „ 865 1,523
Deficit.
Oct., 1901.. 597 £16,022 embezzled 13,902
Reserves.
Capital written down 826
April, 1902.. 1019 8 per cent. = 516 503 1,329
Oct., 1902.. 1166 8 „ „ 516 640 , 1,969
April, 1903.. 688 8 „ „ 516 172 2,141
Oct., 1903.. 949 8 „ „ 516 433 2,574
April, 1904.. 820 8 „ „ 516 304 2,878
Oct., 1904.. 740 8 „ „ 516 224 3,102
April, 1905.. 856 8 „ „ 516 340 3,442
Oct., 1905.. 863 8 „ „ 516 347 3,759
April, 1906.. 986 8 „ „ 516 470 4,259
The profits are the best since 1902, which at least is
something, and they represent £lllos. 2d. per cent, per
annum on the capital and the reserves as at the begin-
ning of the half-year. This is a very fine return, and
though it is only on the written-down capital, yet it
would represent quite a respectable return on the original
capital. The small overdraft of last October has been
turned into a credit balance, and the amount owing to
depositors, which was £7067 last October, has been re-
duced to £0929. All these are movements in the right
direction.
• • * •
“ Wonga” : Re A.M.P. Society’s industrial ex-
penses (B. 24/5/’O6), small was the slice of that £19,069
that went, pro rata, to the canvassers who tackled the
tough and unpoetic proposition of giving the venture its
preliminary push. Terms were £1 weekly salary and a
commission of four times the amount of business pre-
miums written. If Mrs. Jones insured and her weekly
premium was to be Is., the canvasser received a cheque
for £1 45., less 3d. guarantee premium, provided always
that Mrs. Jones, on signing the proposal form, paid a
deposit equalling the canvasser’s commission of “four
times.” Having put the business in, the canvasser had
to wait from 15 to 20 days ere receiving the commission.
Canvassers were informed that 2s. weekly was the average
expected from each. It takes a good canvasser to write
that amount consistently, the reason being that door
knocking for industrial business in Australia is
like fossicking on a worked-out g-oldfleld—here
and there you may get a color. Thus the
industrial salary of the canvasser (if any) who
realised A.M.P. expectations, amounted to £1 7s. 9d.
a week. He was privileged to write an ordinary case, if
he happened on the chance. In considering the practical
administration of Industrial as compared with Ordinary
assurance, think how a retail grocer}' is run in comparison
with a wholesale house, and you have the key to the chief
“bloomer” in the A.M.P.’s Industrial practice. Large
and conservative, the A.M.P. knew only the dignified,
slow methods of the simpler wholesale system. Said a
woman to whom I delivered a policy—" Is that the measly
thing it is. Why, when I insured with ” (mentioning
a concern little better than a wild cat) “ they brought me
a lovely large policy.” The A.M.P. Society’s Industrial
agreement is printed on a bit of paper about lOin. by 9in.
That woman paid no more premiums, and would not be
convinced that the A.M.P. was anything other than a re-
cently-started penny struggle. An insurance Ishmael,
after a month’s canvassing for the A.M.P., chucked it and
went back to an old love, declaring that “The blanky
system is in its own blanky road.”
* * * *
Waterloo (Sydney) municipal council has partly
recovered from a very small attack of honesty. In
December 1904 it decided that every half-year £250
should be put to a sinking fund to provide for the repay-
ment of the municipal. As Waterloo owes £17,000, and
has only £7OOO worth debt of wholly unproductive assets
to show for it —of revenue-producing assets it hasn’t a
penn’orth—this seemed a reasonable enough idea. But
Waterloo has just repented in haste, and decided to cut
down the sinking fund payment from £5OO a year to £125.
And probably it will repent some more later on, and
abolish the wretched little £125, and spend the small
accumulation, and get on the old municipal loan drunk
once again.
* * * *
The Raymond Terrace Co-operative Dairy
and Produce 00. Limited (Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.) is a
little concern which seems to have some possibilities of a
future before it, and that is the best place to wear a
future. It has a paid-up capital of £2406 ss. and these
are its recent doings :
Written Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends, off Reserves, serves.
Ap., 1905.. £714
Oct., 1905.. £406 £204 £202 916
Ap., .409' sp.c. =£l2l ,238 50 966
In a case like this it is necessary to speak rather
cautiously about the future. The co. has evidently got a
business that has prospects about it, but it certainly
seems to be balancing a pretty large business on a pretty
small capital. Its liabilities to the public appear under
three headings : “Sundry Creditors,” “ Amounts due
Cream Suppliers” and “ Unpresented Cheques,” and this
is how things stood at two recent dates
Cash on Debts in
Due to hand and excess
creditors, in Bank, of cash.
October, 1905.. .. £3021 £651 £2970
April, 1906 .. .. 3053 510 3173
In the face of these figures the little concern would do
well to keep the dividend down and give the reserve fund
a chance to grow. It has, £3372 capital and reserves, but
on the other hand it has £4446 locked up in buildings,
machinery and plant, so that it has just £1074 less than
nothing of its own money to trade with. It managed
apparently to do its work last half-year and yet only pay
£1 4s. lid. interest on borrowed money, which was really
clever financing. Still, such a situation might lead to
diliioulties.
* * ■* te
“ 0.K.” : The success of the local co-operative
brewery has inspired some of the men of Melbourne
Trades Hall—it was a very easy inspiration—with the
idea that a Unionist Co-operative Brewery, bearing the
Union label, would soon acquire a masterful position in
the working-man’s beer trade. It seems that about 60
members of the Liquor Trade Employees’ Union will be
thrown out of employment if the various Melbourne
breweries achieve their proposed combination. This
statement tells its own story. If the beer hitherto pro-
duced by several breweries has been charged with the
wages of 60 more men, and the cost of a far more expensive
distribution than will be attached to the output of a com-
bination brewery, the beer of the future should be cheaper
and better than the tanglefoot of the past, and a corres-
ponding increase in ordinary household consumption may
be expected. With a rising demand for beer, a new
Unionist Co-operative Brewery should prosper—under
good management. It might eventually capture the
whole trade, but a great success would be possible only
to a business conducted on economical principles.
Started as an institution for the employment of unionist
labor rather than for the production of a boss brand of
beer, it will probably fail. In the preliminary discussion
of this scheme there is rather too much talk about “ the
interests of fellow-workers.” It is all right to think about
them, but it is best to talk rather about the fellow-drinkers,
for it is on their 'thirst that success must largely depend!
An enthusiastic address to “Bloated and Red-Nosed
Fellow-Citizens” on the quality and cheapness of the
prospective beer is the line of eloquence required at the
beginning of the Co.-op. Beer-Factory.
Considering its crippled condition, the Central
Broken Hill mine is making a gallant fight. There
is probably a good deal of bluff about the state-
ments so airily made by the manager, that the
whole of the sunken mill could be straightened
up to run again in a few weeks, if it were not for
the water from the plant getting down on to the
footwall and helping the hunk of creeping country to
have another toboggan slide. The upper floors of the
mill were not much damaged, however, and the fact of
the shafting being in short gear, instead of one continuous
length, saved the situation. In a few days repairs
were made to the crushing plant which enabled it to run
smoothly when connected up with the motor, and as soon
as the concentrating-plant that is being erected outside
the mill is completed, there is nothing to prevent work
going on at the mine on reduced lines. A number of new
grinding pans are being manufactured in Adelaide, and
these should be delivered by the end of the month, by
which time the concentrating plant of 12 Wilfleys will, no
doubt, be ready for'action, and production will resume at
the mine. The sinking of the main shaft to the 1000 ft. is
going on, and the crosscuts to connect it with the work-
ings at the 900 ft. and 1000 ft. levels are not standing still,
so before the end of the year, when the new mill is ready
to start, the extraction of ore from the deeper levels wiil
be .commenced. About 2000 tons of crudes per week is
the quantity the management estimates it will be able to
treat with the temporary plant, but in all probability
1500 tons will be a good outside margin. The magnetic
plant and granulation mill are on footwall country, quite
away from the creep ground, and have not been affected.
They are both doing fair work, and are saving the situa-
tion from being so financially ruinous as it might other-
wise have been.
* * * *
The question just now being asked is whether
the pillar system of working, as pursued in the Central,
was not to some extent responsible for the creep. It is a
significant fact that some little time ago the last of the
ore pillars at the 600 ft. level of Block 10 was taken out.
The pillar system is a splendid safeguard at the be-
ginning, but as soon as the company’ wants the ore and
starts to mine on the pillars, trouble is almost sure to
result. One of the great difficulties the Central mine
has had to combat is the vughey condition of some of
the ore pillars. No vughs have, however, been met with
below the 700 ft. level.
* * * *
Despite managerial statements to the contrary,
there is nothing to justify the belief that the Central
creep ground has found its bed. It is only a matter of
months, and a further slide along the footwall, with a
corresponding subsidence, is bound to occur. To avoid
such a contingency no feasible scheme has yet been put
forward. The overburden might be removed by taking
away the crown of the Block 10 hill, on which the old
mill used to stand, and open-cutting to the 400 ft. level.
But that would be a stupendous undertaking, involving
about a million of money. It would mean the shifting of
some 12,000,000 cubic yards of material, and then there
would remain the doubt as to whether the lessening of
the load on the workings beneath would be sufficient to
have the desired effect. If a large block of ground were
left below the 700 ft. it might be of some service, but it is
never safe to leave ground for support in a mine like the
Central, where there may be a large vugh beneath it.
* • « *
Block 10 has been badly pinched, but is putting
a good face on matters. The mine’s internal economy
has been so seriously disarranged that the scratching of
sufficient ore from the lower levels to keep the mill going
one or two shifts daily has proved a matter of extreme
difficulty. Harvey shaft is workable only to the 1000 ft.
level, but the cage runs to the 1200 ft. in Camp-
bell’s shaft. Ore Iroken at the lower levels is
sent to the 1000 ft. of .0 \ mpbell’s shaft and trucked across
to Harvey’s, and thc..ce hoisted to the surface. But
Campbell’s shaft is so broken and twisted from the 700 ft.
up that, looking upwards from the 800 ft., a man needs an
eagle eye to see daylight through it. The ropes are still
running free, but at any’ time the shaft may’ come toge-
ther and jam them. In order to avoid risk, the men are
not allowed to travel in the cage from the 1000 ft. to the
1200 ft. in Campbell’s shaft. They are obliged to walk
down through the stopes from the 1000 ft. of Harvey’s
across to the 1200 ft. of Campbell’s, which means the loss
of about an hour per man per shift. Even the platman is
not allowed to take any’ chances, but must walk up the
ladder-ways to the plats in Campbell’s shaft. Of course,
the deepening of Harvey’s shaft will be pushed on, but,
hampered as it is at present, the management will not
be able to give much attention to the work for a week
or two.
* * * *
The cause of the land-slide which has knocked
out whatever hope of early divs. the holders of ordinary
shares in the Sulphide Corporation, Broken Hill, have
had, is most likely the pressure of the Block 10 hanging
wall, which has the weight of the Block 10 hill to carry,
and for years was also saddled with the old Block 10 mill.
Between 515 ft. and 615 ft. Block 10 has worked out the
ore body right up to the boundary. Above 515 ft. the
ore has also been generally stoped out to the boundary.
The Central left a narrow pillar on its own side, but
about 3J years ago this pillar gave way under pressure,
and was pushed into the worked-out stopes. The con-
tinued pressure from the hanging wall, helped 1 y the
soakage of water from the Central mill, which stands
partly over the original break, eventually brought the
climax.
* * * *
B.H. Block 10 had been far from comfortable
underground for some weeks past. The mill was run on
only two shifts for a week ; the explanation given to the
man in the street was that the contractors found the stuff
too hard and wouldn’t take the prices offered. After
that there was an evident straining to get enough ore out
of the mine to keep the mill going full time. Then the
Central creep came. Remember the struggle to keep
things going, and it will be understood why Block 10 is
eager.to at once push its workings down another 500 ft.
# * * *
“M.C.” writes: About Block 14, that has to
produce £l4 3s. 6d. worth of silver and lead to make a profit
of 31s. per ton of concentrates. Judging by recent mill
returns, Block 14 is not exactly booming. Report on
June 5 says 1400 tons of ore assaying 12’3 per cent, lead,
9"60z. silver, and 11T per cent, zinc were treated for 171
tons concentrates, bulking 62 per cent, lead and 29’80z.
silver, the intrinsic value of which is £l4 3s. 6d. (fine
silver 2s, 9d., lead £l6 55.). Now if £4 10s. covers de-
ductions in weight of ore and returning charges, Block
14 receives £9 13s. 6d. per ton for concentrates. Propor-
tion of crudes to concentrates is slightly over eight to
one ; cost of mining and milling, as given in last report,
is 20s. 3d. per ton on crudes, so working costs to produce
a ton of concentrates come to £8 2s. 6dl, which leaves a
gross profit of 315., or nearly 4s. per ton of crudes. Costs
are abnormally high, much higher than they were when
Evans was underground manager some years since ; and
taking into account the mimic earthquake and the fires
that sometimes happen, Broken Hill costs in general
seem just as likely to increase as to decrease. The 11 per
cent, zinc in the tailings is not a matter to make a fuss
over. It has yet to be shown that there is any profit in
treating 11 per cent, zinc ore by the acid process.
* * *
The Broken Hill South mill is getting remark-
ably good metal recoveries, for with the completion of the
new mill they are expected to gd as high as 80 per cent.
But there is a statement to the effect that the South mill
man has a system of his own, by which he includes the
lead in the slimes as recovered.
* , * *
The increased price of tin has had the effect of
scaring the crows off (he old mullock heaps atEuriowie, and
something which with a little encouragement may develop
into animation is beginning to-flow in the veins of mining
industry in that district. The newly-married ex-manager
of the Junction North, Tom Palmer, will take control of
the show one time worked in a perfunctory kind of way
by Johnny Brougham. W. liieehers, who not so long ago
undertook to beard the Junction North board in its den,
is also girding up his loins for a contest with the
Euriowie tin deposits.
* * * *
The old Lubra silver mine, at Purnamoota,
outside Broken Hill, is being exploited again by Crisp,
who found it 25 years ago—before Broken Hill was
stumbled on—aud sold it to a Sydney co. But that co.
has long been dead. The mine is now being managed
by its original boss, Morgan. Added to these three
resurrections is a fourth —grey ore and horn silver, worth
5000 oz. to the ton. In the old days the Lubra produced
phenomenally rich stuff. About its most successful
manager was Hibbard, now managing the B.H. Central.
* * * *
Scqttish Consolidated, Watson’s Creek, in the
New England part of N.S. Wales, made a splash lately
by launching a dredge. Difficulty there has always been
a superabundance of w’ater. When w’ash is struck in
shafts, latter are flooded before more than a few shovel-
fulls have been taken out. As pointed out, over four
years ago, co. W’as only playing with the problem by its
feeble attempts to drain its country. As it has 226 acres
along the creek it has a decent chance of scoring, as
wash is undoubtedly rich—in spots very rich. Dredge
can put through 6000 yards a week, and rough estimates
give it 15 years’ work on the property. Manager Asshen-
den has stuck to the show from the start.
* * * *
Small veins sometimes pay well, as, for instance.
Baker’s Creek, up Armidale (N.S.W.)w’ay. Another good
claim, though well on the small side, is the Victory,
Foster (Victoria). It W’as one of the old Standard Bank
assets, and proved itself worth working. Then it was
turned over to a little co., which put up cash to open up
low’er levels and find equipment. Shareholders have done
well, owing to the high average value of stone, as they have
got back 11s. 9d. per share in divs., against 6s. 3d. called
up, and have built up a nice little reserve, and have put
in a decent plant. The claim will always be expensive to
work, as country is very hard and vein is so small. What
is worse, the faulting has been so great that there has
been an end of the stone in sight above 287 ft. Co. has
been driving at 492 ft. to get the shoot of gold on the east
of the slide. Shares got a little flutter the other day on
the news that the stone had been picked up, but so far
there does not appear to be much gold. Co. is no Stock
Exchange cat (or catlet), but a genuine little concern,
worked on its merits.
* * * *
Manager MacLeod, of the Brilliant Extended,
Charters Towers (Q.), estimates that he has got four
years’ stone in sight with an output of 4000 tons per
month. The western ground contains 40,000 tons, esti-
mated as worth £2 10s. per ton, and on the eastern side
of the lease there are 70,000 tons, valued at £4 per ton.
These values are from battery returns. Development is
going strong, and keeps adding to reserves, 2720 ft. being
done in the past six months, against 2696 ft. for the pre-
vious half-year, and 2105 ft. for the one before that. The
quantity treated runs to 20,513 tons, for a return of
£6o,o6o—about £2 18s. 2d. per ton. The half-year before
saw 16,975 tons put through, for an average of £2 19s. 6d.
This is as much as the crushing appliances are capable of
dealing with under present conditions. A new boiler,
engine, and condenser are being erected for the mill, and
the old Cornish boilers and engine are to be thrown out.
When the new plant is going (in six months) there should
be no difficulty in treating 4000 tons a month,
and the mine looks good enough to stand it.
The present tonnage dodges around 3400 tons.
Costs show a reduction all round, but fall
short of the promised 7s. reduction on the previous
term’s figures. Costs are 395. 7d. for 20,513 tons; the
term before costs were 425. 3d. for 16,975 tons. Two
years before that they ran to 475., 535. 4d., and 445. The
profit is small—lBs. 7d. per ton. This could be consider-
ably increased by plugging the small leakages. Expendi-
ture on machinery and up-keep has been heavy, and the
worst of it is not over yet. An aerial tramway or the like
is urgently required to save 7d. a ton in delivering the
quartz at the mill. At present the five-ton drays back
into the hopper, fill up, and cart the stone a distance of
400yds. This gets away with £l3OO a year.
The stone in reserve at the Brilliant Extended
is valued at £380,000 for the total of 110,000 tons. Under
the present conditions costs will be £217,708, leaving
£162,292 for dividends, or £1 9s. 4d. per ton. On this
basis the stone in reserve is of better quality than that
being treated. In the treatment of residues costs were
£2872 for 10,150 tons, equal to ss. 7d. per ton. Carting
residues (in drays, of course) 300yds. got away with a
solid Is. 3d. per ton. The whole of the cyanide plant
wants scrapping, and the system of handling and treating
the residues needs remodelling. The works are fitted
with 100-ton vats. These answered the purpose for which
they were erected—treating pure sands. But they are
altogether too deep for mixed residues. The residues
after treatment are shovelled out of the vats by manual
labour, while the Bonnie shaft, of which the Extended
owns half, is baling water to the tune of 103,314 tons
every six months. As the shaft is only a quarter-mile
from the works, this water could be utilised for sluicing
out the vats instead of allowing it to run to waste. The
co. sold, because its own works could not treat them,
8543 tons of mixed sands and sludges, and received an
average of 4s. 6d. per ton for the lot in the pits. Yet
its own plant could only earn a profit of 4s. Id. per ton
on 10,150 tons.
The whole of the Brilliant Extended profit for
the half-year was £21,638. Written off for depreciation
(a new item in Towers balance-sheets) £2537, equal to
5 per cent. The Is. dividend paid in March toak £12,500,
and div. tax £560, leaving £7304 in hand. Directors pro-
mise another Is. dividend in five or six weeks’ time,
which is cutting it pretty fine. MacLeod handles the
mine well, but someone else handles the finances.
* * Jr *
The Queen Gross, Charters Towers, has made a
splash in development work, costing £8520, and has
mighty little stone to show for it. The straight shaft has
been pushed down 529 ft., making its total depth 1780 ft.
Five formations were passed through, but not one of
them was worthy of consideration. Opening out is in
progress 80ft. from the bottom, with a crosscut in 75ft.
The formation passed through at 1633ft.' is supposed to be
identical with the reef now being worked by the erratic
New Queen Go. At all events, that was what the Cross
was after. It does not look encouraging. Total develop-
ment was 1107 ft. for the six months. The co. started the
term with £18,625, and winds up with £3942. Included
in expenditure is £4793 for re-erecting the mills—
the first parcel of 750 tons cleaned up for 13780 z. of gold.
Sales of residues and concentrates will bring the value to
about £6OOO. Impossible for the mine to turn out and
maintain any tonnage for the material is not there, unless
the straight shaft exposes stone. Odd patches are good, as
the 750 ton parcel shows. Estimated that the Cross will
not produce 7000 tons in the next six months.
• * * *
At Gympie (Q,) the New Dawn has hung up its
battery, this being the result of a consultation between
W. H. Couldery, who owns three-fourths of the con-
tributing shares, and the directors. A number of men have
been put off. The quartz being very low grade it has
been decided to push on prospecting operations towards
the south in the hope of better stone. Experiments are
also to be made with a view to saving the fine gold which
is now reported to leave the battery with the tailings.
To buy a battery, erect it, and crush with it for about six
weeks, and then to make inquiries as to the metallurgical
treatment of the stone looks like a cart-before-the-horse
style of mining. There may be reasons why the vehicle
should precede the beast, but they are none too apparent.
* * * •
Australasian Tribute, Gympie (Q.) is closed
down awaiting developments in an adjoining mine. Big
things were expected of this tribute, and the co. was
formed in 60,090 shares at 2s. 6d.—4d, on application.
But the last tribute party apparently left very little meat
on the dish.
* * * *
At Gympie (Q.) during May 19,631 tons were
crushed for 10,7630 z. Dividends amounted to £5400, and
calls to £3740. Compared with May last year, the re-
turns this month show an increase of 553 tons crushed
for a decrease of 25340 z. gold. Also, calls have been
decreased £1679. Chief returns Scottish Gympie, 8300
tons for 40450 z. ; No. 2 South Great Eastern, 5230 tons
for 24950 z. ; No. 1 North Oriental and Glanmire. 1502
tons for 7560 z. ; South Glanmire and Monkland, 1388 tons
for 4050 z. ; No. 1 South Oriental and Glanmire, 390 tons
for 4040 z. : No. 2 North Columbia and Smithfield, 200
tons for 3540 z. No. 2 South Great Eastern, with an
average of 9dwt. 13gr. per ton, has improved 2dwt. 6gr.
per ton ; while South Glanmire and Monkland is just about
paying its way with sdwt. 20gr. stuff. The New Dawn
crushed 444 tons for 490 z., or a shade over 2dwt. per ton.
South Glanmire and Monkland has struck some black
floors in the lower bed of slate, and when No. 2 reef is cut
in the crosscut that is now being driven west, good gold
may be expected, provided the floors continue to be
black. Baling in the north-eastern ground is still
causing trouble, and companies concerned are trying to
make arrangements with Columbia Consolidated for the
use of its shaft and machinery.
* * * *
Two Mile, Gympie (Q.), a lease of 50 acres,
lately granted by the Warden, and occupying a very
favorable position at the Two Mile, is causing a good deal
of interest. If Gympie, as a whole, takes up the matter
to the extent that the case warrants, there seems every
prospect of an extension of the field in a northerly direc-
tion. It is high time the field looked for fresh auriferous
country in some direction. Rule-of-thumb mining and
hammer and drill mining have had a long innings in the
deep eastern ground. A little geology combined with the
old hammer and drill methods should give better results
at the Two Mile. Croydon, which also wants to test new
ground, is going to form a similar cO., and is to receive a
£ for £ subsidy. The Premier has promised to do all he
can to obtain State aid up to £lO,OOO. Gympie, on its
record, seems to have an equally good elaim for Stas>-,
assistance. ' J
* * * *
Mt. Morgan Co., after building its own copper
furnaces, now proposes to build the man to run them.
For such a big concern the experiment will be


75he Best Tobacco
the world can
produce.
6d.
per
ounce.
3 STRENGTHS-
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.
Sr
o
Tins 1/*
4oz. Tins 2/-
Boz. Tins 3/9
Sold Loose only by
/A. A. MARKS,
/370 George St.
310 George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
watched with interest, particularly as it is under-
stood that when Shepherd quits for the O.K. one of the
co.’s young chemists will be placed in charge. Mt.
Morgan 00. is, in many respects, of very conservative
tendencies, but in its mining, milling, and smelting de-
partments the young, technical man is paramount, and
the success of the copper venture now rests upon the
judgment of Captain Richard in the selection of his
metallurgist. Stated that the costs of mining and smelt-
ing are below the estimate. Some information on this
point will probably issue with the half-yearly report, now
just about due.
The valuable mineral, monazite, recently found
at Olary (S.A.), is of such rare occurrence that the parties
interested in thediscoveryhaveexperiencedgreatditficulty
in getting anyone in Australia competent to express a
reliable opinion as to the value of the find. In the mean-
time, the syndicate is anxiously awaiting returns from
the parcel of monazite sand sent to Germany for analysis.
After ten years’ battling, the Kinsella Day
Dawn (W.A.) has again been given best. At the funeral
meeting of shareholders the chairman said there was ho
hope of tributors coining to the rescue, as there was
nothing above water-level to pay, and at the greatest
depth reached the best values were obtained from a shoot
of 10ft., only a portion of that being any good. A local
newspaper next day admitted that the mine did not
greatly appeal to Murchison people, “ many of whom had
been sufferers from the devious tactics indulged in by
the hook-nosed combination, mostly resident in a remote
village called London, who bad control of the property.”
Hull’s opinion now would be interesting ; for the local
paper cannot point to a single dividend-paying mine on
the Murchison—save the Great Fingall—out of all those
palmed off on the guileless Bull.
* * * «
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie (W. A.), after sinking
the main shaft to 317 ft., has started opening out at 300 ft.
The lode at the bottom is 50ft. wide, and consists of
exactly the same species of rock as the big mines, but is
worth only about 2dwt. per ton. A drive south has been
started to see if better values can be picked up in that
direction. At the 200 ft. level the lode is 35ft. wide,
exclusive of a horse of mullock, and assays 4dwt. gold
and 3oz. silver per ton. At 100 ft. the pay chute is 125 ft.
long by sft. wide, and worth about 30s. per ton. A
parcel of 61 tons recently treated from the slope above
the 150 ft. level yielded 230 z. 12dwt. from the plates, while
the 2J tons of concentrates averaged 92dvvt. gold and 31oz.
silver per ton. From the 100 ft. level 150 tons
have been milled for an average of Bdwt. The
mine looks promising, and may yet turn out trumps,
and the owners are plucltily pushing on developments.
The rich chute, before petering out just below 200 ft.,
where a slide to the west cub it off, produced 88770 z.
gold and 42,1930 z. silver, which realised £39,770. The
quantity treated was 610 tons, so the ore panned out over
£65 a ton,
* • * *
North End, Kalgoorlie (W.A) has got the main
shaft down to 300 ft., and has started to open up at
280 ft. In the upper levels the country' is very unsettled,
especially going south, but in a winze below the 180 ft.
level, hard sulphide ore has been encountered, and the
outlook there looks more promising. 00. has a very good
equipment for a small mine, consisting- of a 15-head mill,
and cyanide plant, and has a Gates rockbreaker nearly
erected. The poppet legs are being raised to allow the
ore to be trammed direct to the breaker, and everything
is being done to cheapen costs. The backward state of
the mine hardly appears to warrant all this surface ex-
penditure, and funds for development are said not to be
too flush.
Oroya, Black Range (W.A.), formerly known
as Oroya Junior, has been floated into a separate co. of
200,006 shares, £1 each, of which the Oroya holds the pre-
ponderating interest. The Oroya co. had an option on
these leases for eight months from September, and has
done a large amount of development in the interval. The
price paid was £lO,OOO, so that the Oroya shareholders
should make a tremendous profit on the deal. Property
consists of 148 acres, and is alleged to contain 3000 ft. on
the strike of the reef and 2000 ft. on the dip. A 20-head
mill is to be erected, and the result will prove if W. J. Bor-
ing’s optimistic opinion of the property is justified. Black
Range is about 90 miles from Magnet and over 100 miles
from Lawler’s, and has neither telegraphic nor railway
communication. Both have been advocated, and will
probably be granted as the result of this flotation. The
Pelerin, in the same district, has just treated 241 tons
for 6670 z., and during the last 12 months, 467 tons for
13350 z. The quantity is small, but prospectors on rich
ore don’t exert themselves. The Black Range Syndicate
has paid £ll,Bll in dividends since January last year,
and is now distributing £1687 10s., or ss. per share, every
second month.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W.A.) is probably the best mining
venture on the market. Manager Moss is confident that
the plant will eventually'treat 11,000 tons monthly when
properly adjusted, and that the profit will be about £20,000
monthly. The lodes on the property are very difficult to
follow, as the ore is in lenses ranging up to 220 ft. in length
and 110 ft. in width, and are often wider east and west
than their length north and south. It is estimated that
there is five years’ ore in sight worth 61s. per ton, but it
is not blocked out ; in fact, it is utterly' impossible to
block it. It may be noted that, since the beginning of
the year, the yields have been 625. 2d., 625., 61s. 10d., and
625. Bd. per ton, or well over the estimate. Ore values
are very erratic, but so many points are opened up, and
so many rich dabs occur, that Moss is confident of main-
taining the yield. One of these big stopes is a sight well
worth seeing. Stoping is still going on briskly at 100 ft.
where there is an enormous cavern, and the lode
is opening up at 1150 ft. Nothing is being done between
500 ft. and 200ft'., as Moss, and his underground boss, Sam
Evans, believe in working upwards once the lenses are
located. It saves timber, if stopes are mullocked up as
depleted.
* * * *
Mt. Monger (W. A.), about 30 miles south-east
of Kalgoorlie, on which a tremendous lot of work was
done in the early days, will shortly get a new trial. The
ore will be brought to Boulder for milling at 3s. 4d. a ton.
Mundaring water will soon be available at Monger at
2s. 6d. per lOOgals., instead of being practically unpro-
curable as at present, the cost being- 355. per lOOgals. for
any lots carted out. There are scores of low-grade reefs
in the district, and some of them may prove good enough
to become permanent mines.
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), has had a
fairly good year, according to the annual report, but
there is no getting over the fact that the twelfth level is
a failure, the only redeeming- feature being that a winze,
580 ft. north, lias been in values between 20s. and 30s.
The exploiting of parallel reefs is held out as a forlorn
hope, but it must not be forgotten that in 1901 the
western leases, w'hich were said to contain three parallel
reefs, were floated as the West Fingall, with a capital of
£225,000, and, after the property had been proved to be
an absolute cat, were re-bought, in March, 1903, for
£47,832 in cash. The East Fingall, also, in spite of many
and gaudy reports, is still a duffer. Both north and
south all the co.’s operations have proved ghastly failures.
If great Fingall’s one 24-acre block, which has, so far,
produced all the gold, has petered out, which is far from
certain, the parallel reef theory seems a shaky reed to
rest upon.
* * * *
Barrambi Ranges, in the Murchison district, is
one of the few Westralian mines owned and controlled
almost exclusively in Melbourne. Tindall’s is another,
and Black Range a third. Victorians once had big in-
terests in the West, and these three mines are a poor lot
compared with the old holding, especially in Great Boul-
der and Ivanhoe. But the Victorians sold early and
never went back. Barrambi Ranges is a new float in the
Murchison district and was brought by J. M. Ald-
ridge to Gon. Lynch who, pinning his faith to Aldridge’s
judgment, rallied round a few old Glenfine South
men such as Joe English, Dick, and people of that ilk.
No one outside Peacock’s office took the mine seriously
till Lynch went over himself to see it. When he sent
back glowing messages folk began to think that there
might be more in the claim thau met the eye, for Lynch
not only knows a mine as well as anyone but he is as
cautious as a bobby on the beat when a row is on. Shares
before Lynch’s visit were not worth more than the paper
they were written on, but then they got a market. Re-
serve shares were placed, the original holders were satis-
fied with £3OOO cash and a share payment, and the show
was launched. Lynch and Aldridge, however, coveted
the Golden Hill slab of ground ahead, and now the Board
tells of its purchase. Looking at the reports from the
claim, assays are high—so high that if Lynch is as right as
he was over the Ivanhoe he is on the way to make an-
other rise. But caution suggests letting the battery
talk to prove whether the property is a squib or a
Pactolus.
* * * *
In many parts of the Murchison (W.A.), men
working their own shows are doing more than well,
though in reckoning up the value of the returns the high
cost of living has to be considered. At Peak Hill one
party has just got 87oz. from 40 tons; tributors from the
Princess Ada (Cue), 88oz. from 55 tons ; and Bertram’s
party at Mindoolah, 790 z. from 24 tons. Stone valued at
4oz. per ton has been struck at the Ingliston Extended,
Meekatharra —another private concern. This neglected
part of the Murchison is turning out well, all the claims
along the line of reef for two miles being- on good stone.
Six partners in one lease divided £20,000 among them
last year, and are still doing well. At Barrambie,
gold was discovered by men employed on the rabbit-
netted fence put up by the Westralian Government. One
show out that way, the Golden Hill, is said to be a 4oz.
proposition, and a third interest has just been sold for
£4OOO.
» * * *
Grreenbushes (W.A.) is, like other tinfields, en-
joying a mild drunk. Owing to the high price of tin
many shows that wouldn’t pay a year or two ago are now
working. Most of them depend on the Government plant
to treat their stuff. A local grievance is that Rason’s
crowd notified the manager that he mustn’t treat for un-
registered claims. Registration costs £3 and is no earthly
good to the average prospector, and any poor devil who
has a bit of dirt to crush but can’t raise the £3 has no
show of getting his stuff treated.
* * * *
For many long, long years the Victorian Cornish
mine at Daylesford (Vic.), despite a splendid record, was
a shepherded property. For if) years spasmodic attempts
were made to float it, but Victorians shirked the cost of
unwatering the shafts. At last, the brothers Field, of
Gaffney’s Greek, got Bull cash and started. Job was so
big that even the Bull co. at one time was almost at its
last gasp. Then the gold was got, and now everyone is
envying Melba’s father, Mitchell, who, if whisper
does not tell fairy tales, somehow continued to keep
an interest in the ground through all the years of idle-
ness. English directors made little haste to bring out
the first balance-sheet. The accounts show that 14,380
tons treated between October, 1904, and December,
1905, gave 11,4090 z. gold, worth £45,904. Over 14 months
were taken up in un watering the mine and in prospecting,
and Bull did not see £14,000 go this way without as pain-
ful a moaning as is heard in a dentist’s surgery. Go.
started on the dividend list in July, 1905, with a humble
“ bob,” and the manner in which shares drag to-day does
not predict too well for any large increase in the returns,
despite directors’ hopes.
* * * *
Despite Minister McLeod’s talk over the
Lilliput Proprietary (Vic.) royalty, it is unfortunately
plain that his advisers did not see that the path was clear
before he called on the directors to hand over their lease
to the tribute Great Southern Consols Co. Departmental
sanction in the past could not be got over, nor could the
terms of the lease. So the parties were given time to
confer, and the Consols Co. buys out the Lilliput for
£5OO. McLeod wants to clear up the anomaly that the
miner’s-right man can get in ahead of the tributing co. if
he can square the landowner and put in his pegs first.
All the same, he must be careful about how he limits the
privileges of the miner’s-right holder, otherwise he will
play into the hands of those who would like to cut the
miner out altogether, except as a wages man to be
sweated. About the biggest drag on the Vic. gold-mining-
industry is the piratical landowner, who often claims
and gets as compensation from a mining co. ten times the
value of his land. This form of blackmail is more exten-
sive and is a greater curse than any other form of mining
exaction in the State. M'Leod says he intends to put
everything right with an amending Mines Act this
session. It is a large order.
South Mt. Cameron, Bradshaw’s Creek (Tas.),
by sheer merit and perseverance, has got its head above
water. Three men can claim principal credit for this—
P. V. Tuxen, the chairman ; Joe Kemp, and last but not
least Cecil, the mine manager whom Tuxen and Kemp,
old VValhalla men, snapped up when the South Long
Tunnel collapse threw him idle. Co. went in for every-
thing new. It had terrace ground, so it laid down about
three-quarters of a mile of big piping and forced the
water up from the Ringarooma through this by a high
lift pump to the face. About £7l is required to
get one ton of tin oxide, which is worth £l2O at
present values, as there is a big margin for a
fall in the price of tin. Co. ought to make
haste to get its new plant in to bring that cost down to
£5O. The demerit of the method of working is its inelas-
ticity at the face. Co. has had trouble with its tail race,
too, and the time lost in cleaning up has been a serious
disadvantage. With more nozzles than one at work there
ought to be a reduction of the loss in this direction.
Ground so far has gone slightly under 1 Jibs, of stream tin
to the cubic yard, and the management avers that the
whole 600 acres will average that. Accepting that state-
ment, it is folly for the co. to sell any of its claim. Let it
make a new issue of shares or debentures and put on
another plant. The game is to get the tin quickly while
rates are favorable.
* * * *
Recently some tests were applied to electro-
lytic copper produced at Lithgow (N.S.W.). The elec-
trical conductivity was found to be excellent. All the
same, Mt. Morgan blister copper is to be sent to New
Jersey (U.S. A.), to make the American pile bigger. The
work of refining could be done just as well at Mt. Morgan
as at Lithgow or in the U.S., yet this wealthy
co. has decided to give the job to the foreigner.
And the loss of wealth and work entailed by this
kind of trade is twofold, for, besides the electrolytic
refining work, there is the supply of electric
cables and wire for traction and lighting, for which
electrolytic copper is required. Unless it produces or
imports electrolytic copper, Australia depends upon
foreign works to supply electrical goods. Under a
slipshod fiscal system it pays the Mt. Morgan Co. to
do this kind of thing just as it pays Mt. Lyell or any
co. to send raw material away. But the system
perpetuates a state of ignorance of technical industry and
makes the Australian an ignorant laborer, toiling at the
simplest arts like a white aborigine.
* * » *
Production of Australian mines is valued at
about £26,000,000, and something like half is paid away
in wages. Mr. Delprat, manager of B.H. Prop., say's
114,400 men are employed on Tasmanian and Australian
mines ; he also reckons there are 456,000 dependent on
the mining industry—about one Australian out of every
eight. That seems a preposterous proposition to those
who know what an uncertain and fluctuating game
mining is. As Mr. Delprat says, “there is a heavy
responsibility,” and people who talk wildly about sinking
the fiscal issue should understand that the depletion of old
mines is going on at a tremendous rate, and the end
of most of them is well in sight during the next few years.
Little prospecting is going on and very few new mines
are being found to replace the old ones when they get
worked out. Under the circumstances, and if Australia
is determined to sink Protection, it will have to keep its
eyes glued on the prospector and lavish its money on
prospecting. That may seem rather a risky policy, and
so it is. Australia had much better build up its manu-
factures under Hig h Protection and open up the Northern
Territory—do anything, in fact, to strengthen itself
against even a temporary decline in mining. Prospecting
from a national point of view seems a poor alternative,
but it is of tremendous importance when one person out
of eight depends for a living on mines.
* * * *
“ C. 8.” : Every miner in N.S. Wales can tell of
low-grade quartz lodes lying idle that would be work-
ing but for the excessive rent demanded for a lease. Per
acre, for a gold-mining lease, the Act says £l. But take
the case of a miner wishing to lease three acres. He
planks down £3 for the ground, £1 10s. survey fee, 2s. 6d.
warden’s fee—£4 12s. 6d. But that is not all. After
paying in this amount, and waiting three and sometimes
six months before he learns whether or not the lease will
be granted, the wonderful document is sent with instruc-
tions to the warden not to hand it over till a deed fee of
£l, and 2s. 6d. for something else, are forthcoming - . This
printed paper could be filled in by a junior clerk in
three minutes, yet 20s. is charged. This makes £5 15s.
for three acres of rock and scrub. After that, the
Reformers want from the struggling miner ss. per year
for miner’s right. Compare all that with what the squat-
ter can get an improvement lease of better country for !
It can’t be too often or too solemnly asseverated
that Australian wine manufacture is the least progressive
industry in the country. Some 20 years ago, or less, the
veteran Sizar Elliott, the owner of a medal (dated 1847)
for his pioneer exhibit of Australian tinned meat, assured
a Bulletin man that he had sold capital Australian wine
at 15s. a dozen, as far back as 1844. It was sound, fruity
wine—sherry and port—from the vineyard of Captains
Weston and Ogilvy on the Parramatta Road. These old
soldiers had picked up their knowledge of wine making
in Spain and Portugal during the Peninsular War and
afterwards. Their output wasn’t large, but the wine was
better than the imported prototype brands, which in
those days had not been reduced to a low level. The art
of wine-making is no “forrarder” in Australia in 1906
than it was in 1885, or thereabouts, when Sizar Elliott
smacked his lips over his recollections of the captains’
sherry.
* * * *
Australia can learn several things
from the Malay States, as The Bulletin (24/5/’O6)
suggests. One of them is their habit of making the most
out of their export of tin ore. A heavy export duty on tin
ore has not, for various reasons, established Malay smelt-
ing works ; but the tax on the foreigner, who wanted to
buy his tin in the crudest form, has resulted in a large
revenue. The Malay man, if he can’t get the smelting
business, an.vhow finds a tax on tin ore a handy way of
raising the wind. And it is just the sort of wind Aus-
tralia wants.
* * * *
A noteworthy item in the programme of the
Australian Parliament for the new session is “A Bill for
the protection of Australian policy-holders in foreign life
assurance companies carrying on business in the Com-
monwealth.” The Australian policy-holder has been in
need of such protection for a long time. The simplest
method of protecting him is to compel the foreign assur-
ance office, while it is still doing new business here, to
keep enough money invested in this country to cover all
Australian liabilities. Then, when it ceases to do new
business here, and is merely waiting for its old policy-
holders to die, and no longer cares much what Australia
thinks of it, something more is needed —the prompt and
automatic appointment of a Government receiver to see
that the funds which are compulsorily invested here for
the protection of Australian policy-holders don’t leave in
the night, when no one is looking. (Of course if
Australia adopts the simple and courageous system of
compelling every life assurance concern to keep deposited,
at all times, with the Federal Treasurer sufficient securi-
ties to cover its liabilities, there would be no need for the
appointment of a special receiver, for, as a matter of fact,
there would be a receiver in all the time, but The Bulletin
is assuming that the Australian Parliament, as usual,
doesn’t go the complete and logical hog.) The foreign
co. which wanted to do new business here, and conse-
quently desired to stand well with the public, would
naturally conform to the law, and be careful to keep
sufficient funds in the country, lest the Government
should fall on it and suspend its license. But when it no
longer cared about new business it might be equally l
careless about the law, and when it had got away' with
the funds that were intended for the security of
Australian policy-holders there would be a mighty poor
show of getting them back. Therefore the Australian
Treasurer should either hold the securities all the time,
or there should be a great deal of velocity about putting
in the receiver when the co. is leaving. And as even the
swiftest kind of velocity is sometimes left behind in a stern
chase, it would be better for the company’s securities to
be held bv the Treasurer all the time.
K * * *
The long-established Mechanics Hotel and
Restaurant in Bourke-street (Melbourne), where, before
retiring to spend his declining years in his native Portu-
gal, good old Ascancio de Freitas ran his “ eight o’clock
rush” —a free feed for the city’s outcasts and hard-ups—
was sold by auction last week. The highest bidder was
F. S. iMeyers, of the adjoining London Tailoring Co., at
£560 per f00t—£15,733 for the 28ft. 2in. frontage. The
present licensee’s lease expires in ’O9, and that will
probably see the dropping of the license, there being four
other hotels already in the 200yds. block.
* * * *
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Bleichert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
•* * * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* » * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The Commercial World (London) July 15,
1904, writes of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited “ That the Society under existing con-
ditions did exceedingly well will be most apparent to
those in the closest touch with the trend of affairs in the
year under review.”*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * ♦ *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting_strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
: K * * *
Golden Bendigo.'—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove-agreat
inducement to users of motive power to instal this, type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Mel-
bourne.*
• * * *
Two sets of improvedpl unger pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the “ keystone ”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 0,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming part of one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound Hap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work in hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
George D. MeudeH, Money and Mining Broker,
A.M.P. Building, Bendigo (formerly of Stock Exchange of
Melbourne).*
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., plaoing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
* * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
Try the difference between a big glass of
your usual stimulant and a little of this pure
distillation. You will find the little drink a
livelier bracer for exhaustion for mind or body, and
there will be no bad after-effects. We arc talking
of Wolfe’s Schnapps*
Adelaide can show one thoroughly prac-
tical woman at any rate. After she had been
married some years, her husband became insol-
vent, and just after that time another lady
arrived from England with full proof that she
was his earlier and real wife. The too much
married man bolted, and wife No. 2, being no
lawful wife at all, promptly claimed on his estate
for £lOOO damages for breach of promise of
marriage ! The two women have made common
cause, and appeal to the sympathy of the Insol-
vency Court together.
Bulletin 17/5/’O6 says: — “Probably no
jury would ever agree on the ideal whisky.” A
very wise jury would certainly agree that D.C.L.
is a sound and safe whisky, and that taken in
carefully graduated instalments it will assist the
intellect out of tight places either in regard to
science, business, politics, or art. Without doubt
a jury of barmaids would give it a great testi-
monial. It is a saying among the Hebes that a
drop of D.C.L. makes a man a wise talker and a
good listener.*
A paper manufacturer told the Tariff Com-
mission that while paper intended for bag-making,
wrapping and other commercial purposes is duti-
able at £3 a ton, printing paper is free. Asa
consequence all sorts of papers are indented as
“printing paper,” and are sold afterwards for
trade purposes. This is not reckoned as fraud,
but merely as a “practice of the trade.” Since
the establishment of a local paper factory,
the unpatriotic importers of Sydney have insti-
tuted a cut-throat competition by dumping foreign-
made papers into N.S.W. free under the guise of
“ printing paper.” They do this with the avowed
intention of shutting up the factory, of destroying
Australian capital, wages, and industry, and of
keeping down the population by preventing it
finding a means of livelihood.
Sing the song- of the five-starred cross,
Hung low o’er Southern Seas,
Then tell about our frightful loss
From coughs and colds and sneeze ;
Again, again let voices ring
In one great, grand bravure,
To praise the magic healing king—
Woods’Great Peppermint Cure.*
Reliably stated that £lOO,OOO has been
placed on the schedule of the next Bananaland
Estimates for the new Department of Labor,
which Minister for Works O’Sullivan is to
administer. Some of this money will be devoted
to the encouragement of white settlers in the sugar
districts, so that there will be so scarcity of labor.
Up to the present the chief centres do not antici-
pate any shortage of men, who are already being
engaged for the season. Farmers are to offer
bonuses for those who stay the season through.
“ Point Blank ” writes :
Your recent article on the “ J.P. Scandal ” was good,
but hardly strong enough. The ignorance of the average
“Worship” is, of course, undeniable. One I knew spoke
of the gauge and mesh of his wire-netting as “ gorge ”
and “mash.” However, their ignorance and total unfit-
ness to sit in judgment over their fellows is simply nothing
in the light or shade of the evil that is worked in nearly
every country town by the squaring and stacking of the
“Bench.” It does not matter much what offence you
commit provided you have a friend who is a J.P., or
failing that, a friend of a friend of a J.P. The upshot is
that the police are wiped out almost every time in their
efforts to bring evil-doers to justice. We see some strange
things done in the sacred name of the “ Lor ” ! Now that
Danysz is here, why not get a ’crobe that will wipe the
J.P. crowd out?
The visit of a lot of Japanese to Sydney
has cast a serious doubt on a Jap legend of some
standing. One of the reasons for which we were
urged to admire the wonderful Monkey was his
capacity for learning languages, yet, though
English is the foreign language above all others
to which the Japs have devoted themselves,
hardly one officer in the squadron could speak it
even half as well as the average vegetable China-
man who beams at the back door with spling
callot. The spectacle of flushed and excited
mayors and aldermen bellowing at blankly unre-
sponsive Japs, and trying to make them under-
stand by sheer noise, and saying, “Yousavee”
when they didn’t savee, and losing their heads at
last, and madly calling their visitors “John,”
was something calculated to make a joss weep.
OPEN SESAME.—Hunyadi Janos Water
is the “open Sesame” of the human organism.
Speedy, sure, and gentle, it fulfils every indica-
tion in health and disease. It is a therapeutical
arsenal in itself. Indispensable to millions of
human beings all over the world.*


Hotel
A ustralia
KATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
tight. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st. Sydney.
DAVID STOKER & SONS’ ln ™ree Colore-BLACK, BED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
ĥ
Is the ONLY Absolutely
Wool-
Marking OB
The Perfect Sheep-Marker. SHEEP BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Rescli’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“ A.C.” : “ Nulla ” (B. 10/5/’08), to prove
that the emu is a foolish bird, says that the sight
of a wire fence fiils it with dread. Well, I
know men who can look at an “ Upper House,”
and not be filled with dread or even anger. Man
or emu—after all, which is the fool ?
“A.C.D.” Apropos emus (B. 10/5/’08). Do
you, over your way, know the Flying Emu ? At
this time of the year it is seen here (Tas.) at its
best; in early summer it develops an annual attack
of insanity, and stands on its head for two or three
months at a stretch. Immediately below the
Southern Gross on any clear starry night, can be
seen a dark patch, like a small cloud; it is the
exact shape of an emu’s head. The neck of the
bird can be traced downwards through the two
“Pointers,” and the rest of the emu’s body is
visible, extending almost to the horizon. The
legs are drawn up, as if in the act of flight.
FROM TASMANIA.
Wot yous cores wants ter do is travel and see things, and improve yer mind. Look at me!
I bin about a lot; bin orl over this district, and once nearly acrost ter the other side!"
“ Oby ” : Re the finding of a live toad in
a tree on the Richmond River. The N.S.W.
State Parliament once went into a state of extreme
excitement over a tortoise found in a rock, tl
was in 1859. Some men who were making a
cutting, found a live tortoise in a rock cavity
near Parramatta. The cavity was 4ft. from the
surface of the rock, and the astonishment excited
at the liveliness of the long-necked released
firisoner spread to Parliament. The Speaker,
)aniel Cooper, had the creature brought to him
for the inspection of members, and a debate en-
sued as to how it got into the rock and what sup-
ported it while there. The tortoise was next
sent to the Governor, who, after laboring on the
question, carried the creature to W. Macleay.
Macleay identified it as a specimen of the Emys
longicollis, and dashed the growing romance by
giving it as his opinion that there must have been
a crevice in the rock through which the tortoise
penetrated. The rock was smashed up by that
time, and nothing further could be proved. The
Governor carried the ex-prisoner back to Govern-
ment House, and maintained it there in luxury.
It got periodical mention for a while, and then
dropped out of history. Possibly it is still alive ;
if so it is just a plain ordinary tortoise now.
♦ * * *
“ G.” writes :
The W.A. police cause a mingled feeling of rage and
amusement to those brought into contact with them.
Recently, two burglars, who had looted a store, cut over-
land from Harvey to Collie. There are a “corporal”
and three plain cops at Collie, and, as the two men were
well-known in the town, four whole policemen should
have been sufficient to run them down. The pair had a
clean shave and rigged themselves out in new clothes,
and then started to paint the hamlet carmine. They
explained quite cheerfully that, when they had drank ail
their present funds, they had still £BO buried in the bush
to fall back upon. It was only when they had spent all
their cash plunder and were going to dig up the £BO that
they were arrested —the papers said it was a brilliant
arrest, too. On being confined in the logs at Collie they
immediately started to get out, and had nearly succeeded
when they were disturbed by the keeper bringing in their
tea. They were sentenced to three months for
attempted escape, and transferred to Bunbury for safe
keeping, but they burst open the lockup of Big-
john’s birthplace and went. In another case a man
is alleged to have embezzled £l2. A warrant
was issued, but with no result. One of those
concerned was in Perth, the other day, and asked
a detective why in thunder he didn’t arrest the alleged
defaulter, who was openly working at a little mill
near Greenbushes. The force, galvanised into sudden
activity, rose up a week later and sent the warrant to
the poiice-office at the tinfields, and it just reached the
mill the day after the man wanted had drawn his pay and
left. He is still roaming at large, and, unless he has a fit
on the front step of a police-station, he is likely to remain
in enjoyment of all the blessings of freedom.
* « * «
A visitation of starlings has recently
fluttered down upon the open areas around
Kensington and other suburbs in the vicinity
of Sydney Centennial Park. It is a great
sight to see them, close on sunset, flying home to
their camp, in the five large willow trees, on an
island in one of the park lagoons. As evening
advances the birds rise in flocks, at about the
same time, and converge upon the willows. They
circle round, high in the air, until the last twit-
tering flock, from a remote feeding ground, joins
the fluttering family. Then there is a flash like
a sudden shimmer of silver, as the sun catches
them, poised for a moment, and they swoop down
and occupy every twig, and settle for the night.
Seeing the damage the starling works among
orchards, the park authorities ought to seriously
consider the question of settling them for ever.
* * * *
“Tuan”: The Tweed-Richmond district
(N.S.W.) has been getting excited over bulls.
Half-a-dozen agricultural shows follow each other
rapidly up there. At one of them, Brown’s bull
got champion prize, defeating Smith’s. Next
show, a fortnight later, Smith’s bull beat Brown’s.
The whole population gave up talking cow and
unanimously talked bull, dividing itself into the
Brown’s bull faction and the Smith’s bull push. A
third show happened a couple of weeks later, and
the committee appointed three judges to pick the
real, genuine champion bull. A third bull com-
peted, but he wasn’t even mentioned in the
betting. The three judges selected each a different
bull ! They called in another judge, and bull No.
3 was awarded the ribbon. Then the two rival
factions fell on one another’s neck and cursed the
outsider.
* * * *
In cricket field or football bounds,
Sporting with gun, or following hounds,
In swift horse-race or yachting course,
Where'er a man’s delight finds source,
One more delight keeps him aglow—
Best game of all —’tis sport to know
That Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure was sent
To be man’s best medicament.*
“ Hexham ” : “ Ileal Australian ” (B.
17/5/’0(>) must have confined his Argentine ex-
ploring to the province of Buenos Aires, since his
description of the country as “ one vast pampa or
plain, treeless and stoneless,” only applies to that
region and adjoining parts of Cordoba and Santa
Fe—that is, to one-seventh of the area of the
Republic. The north-western, provinces are
mountainous, and in parts heavily wooded ; and
the north-eastern have abundance of forests (it
needs a machete to cut one’s way through). The
south is also hilly, and along the rivers and
towards the Andes there is bush enough.
Whatever may be the case with regard to
cereals and meat, there is no probability that
Argentina will cut Australia out in wool
production. Everything points the other way.
In the best sheep “camp”—the tbr.e-juinbucks-
to-an-acre region of the republic,
that of Northern Buenos Aires—
maize and alfalfa have almost driven
out wool, and North, South and
West the chacrero (agricultural
farmer) is invading the estancias
with the result that sheep, horses
and unrefined cattle are being forced
back to the inferior districts of the
interior, as the white man forced
back the American Indian. British
consular report on Argentina for last
year says that the number of sheep
is declining. And, anyhow, Argen-
tina does not suit the merino like
Australia, and the long wools of
the former do not come into com-
petition with our short wools, lie
a point “ R.A.” does not mention.
For Australia to think of establish-
ing a fruit export trade with Europe
is a dream. Southern Brazil pro-
duces magnificent oranges, Northern
Buenos Aires equally fine peaches
—ground untilled, trees unpruned
and unmanured, and stock running
among them—while, on the banks
of the Uruguay, there are as good
grapes as are to be found anywhere.
With the expensive cultivation and
manuring necessary here and double
distance from market, no sooner
would a trade in oranges—and in
peaches and grapes were it possible
to carry them—be set on its legs
than in would cut Argentina and
very likely the Cape, too—and we
should have to retire. Where the
River Plate Republic can’t touch us
is in manufacturing possibilities.
Without coal or iron (though Mul-
hall, of the B.A. Standard, has
been predicting for 25 years their
discovery in the Andes), and without water-
falls for electric power, it seems doomed, as things
are at present, to remain a primary producer.
» » * *
“ Chass ” : lie women farm-hands (Bul-
letin, 24/5/06), nearly all the present boss cookies
around Maroona (Vic.) built their farms with the
labor of their daughters. Have seen the girls stack-
building, turning sheaves, pitching sheaves in the
field, ploughing, harrowing, and binding after the
old back-delivery reapers, alongside the festive
Chow. The female with a working acquaintance
with the great primary industries seems to be a
failure from a matrimonial point of view, as few
of these agricultural damsels are married. In
lieu of husbands, they have found joy and conso-
lation in their old age in the Farmers’, Property-
owners’, and Producers’ Association.
‘ ‘ Edy ” : At Graytown — which is the now
commonplace name for old Spring Greek —there
is a marvellous monument of a solitary citizen’s
labor, if you can call it a monument that goes
down into the earth in the shape of a hole instead
of being a solid body sticking up into the air.
Said monument is a shaft 200 ft. deep, 4ft. x 2ft.,
timbered throughout, and sunk by one man, and
an old man at that. The josser who sunk Sthe
shaft was locally regarded as an amusing crank,
and was shown off as such. He had neither
ladders nor windlass. When he had filled his
two buckets below he climbed up the shaft with the
aid of the rope and the timber, and then hauled
up one bucket by hand. After that he lowered
the rope, and fished for the second. At first he
left a lighted candle to guide him in hooking No.
2, but afterwards he grew to be so expert an
angler that he could work it in the dark first
throw. The crank sank on the hanging wall side
of his reef, and was getting further away from the
lode every foot he went down. For three years
he lived on pollard, treacle, and tea. He would
take no advice from anybody, and no assistance.
When last seen alive he declared that he had only
6ft. more to go, and an amazing fortune would be
his. He was found dead in his hut, and went
the other 6ft., but what fortune awaited him
nobody knows. This 200 ft. shaft is utterly
aimless. He was locally known as “The Zealot,’’
out of compliment to an old Bulletin story appa-
rently.
* » - <
A Sydney daily on the Danysz rabbit-
disease proposal
There is no evidence that the virus would introduce a
disease contagious beyond the species it would be used
upon.
But Australia wants something far more satis-
factory than that negative assurance. There is no
evidence that leprosy is infectious, but who would
support a proposal to import lepers into the Com-
monwealth ? The burden of proof is on the other
side. Before the Danysz microbes get loose, there
should be absolute evidence that they cannot
wander from the rabbit.
“ Merle ” : lie that leggy individual yclept
emu. Has“ ,Tanor” ever seen one swim? The
uncommon sight of one crossing the Glenelg
(Vic.) was witnessed a couple of weeks ago. Cer-
tainly the bird’s recent experiences were enough
to drive it to some desperate act. A vice-regal
party was straying round in those regions, and to
provide amusement for the members thereof, an
emu hunt was instituted. Then that bird’s trou-
bles began. He happened to be the handiest
specimen of his race, and after being “winded”
by a party of horsemen, he was induced to ap-
proach the visitors. He was duly admired,
photographed, and embezzled of a couple of his
tail feathers. When released that emu lit out for
the horizon at top speed, and when last seen was
crossing the river, evidently thinking it best to
put something substantial between himself and
his enemies. I have been told by a resident of
these regions that some years ago he saw a
mother emu and brood crossing the same river.
He captured one young bird and tamed it.
AND WASN'T HE!
VOICE BEHIND THE P ARSOL: “ Come on, George.
What are you doing now ?”
GEORGE: “ It’s all right, my dear, I’m just
applying a little lubricant.”
Innainincka, in the Far North of S.A., has
just got into touch with the world after being for
two months shut off by the floods. Not that traffic
is open yet, or likely to be for another month, but
two mailmen have been put on instead of one.
They meet half-way, at the impassable Lake
Crossing, and float the mails across to each other
on a light raft made chiefly of oil-drums. The
one Innamineka gardener has had his cottage
washed away, and his garden buried to the tops of
the fence-posts with mud, and he has cleared out
in despair.
CHICAGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you read the tale terrific,
Which has traversed the Pacific,
And been printed in the papers by the ream
All “humanity is staggered,”
And our visages are haggard,
And our appetites have vanished like a dream.
Very gruesome, very gory
Are the details of the story,
And it passes all our powers of belief,
That the great Chicago packers
Mostly draw upon the knackers
For their primest cuts of mutton and of beef.
It has been asseverated,
And on oath deposed and stated,
That no meat which can revolt the soul of man,
From a lately-poisoned dingo
To a decomposed flamingo,
Is rejected by the canner for his can.
There are packers who are pious
(Says the local Ananias),
Of the churches in Chicago they are props,
They are saintly, they are tony,
But it’s said they make poloney
From the sweepings of the floors of butchers’ shops.
When a bad, deceitful canner
Goes a-canning in this manner,
It’s enough to make a self-respecting man
Want to canonise the canner
With a monkey-wrench or spanner,
And to add him to the contents of his can.
As we read the strange effusion
We are forced to this conclusion :
There’s no telling what’s the next thing they will do.
E’en the great Amurkan Vulture
May be served to men of culture
At Delmonico’s, disguised as Irish stew.
It’s no wonder they are fearful
In the British Isles, and tearful.
For suppose the British Lion died of grief,
Why, they’d can him in Chicago,
And export him to Otago,
With the legend on the label, “ Texas Beef /”
Such surmises may be scary,
But are trifles light and airy
To the horrors which the history reveals,
For these worshippers of Mammon
Won’t let engine-drivers jam on
Engine brakes to save a man amongst the wheels !
When the mighty engine’s throbbing,
And when Mammon’s sons are robbing
Honest people of their money and their meals,
It appears that an assistant
Will be quickly non-existent—
Save as sausage—if he slips between the wheels.
For the Packer’s time is money,
And he thinks it would be funny
Stoppin’ work because a feller-critter squeals ;
Goin’ engines can’t be stoppin’
Just because galoots get droppin’
Absent-minded, now and then, amid the wheels.
The fair daughter of the canner
Mostly plays the grand pianner,
And is frequently a fascinating girl ;
Though her “popper ” reeks with slaughter,
She takes trips across the water
To ensnare the unsuspecting British (h)earl.
But it now may be expected
That she’ll be a bit neglected
When she goes to give the dukes and earls a treat;
That the marquises will flout her,
And the local girls will rout her
By referring to her “popper’s” sausage-meat.
Let us draw the gory curtain
O’er the horror, for it’s certain
That, although the Packer knows a thing or two,
Though the pace has been a cracker,
Fate has overhauled the Packer,
And he’s evidently met his Waterloo.
N.S.W.
IRONHARK.


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTURER!
Our “ ROCHESTER” JOB-
COSTING RECORDER can
save scores of pounds per
annum for YOU.
They ensure every man being
on time.
They record what each man
is doing all his time.
They tell you the exact cost
for time of* each article you
make, where time counts.
CALL AND SEE U 5.—60,000
of them used daily in Britain.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Sole Agents for N.S. Wales,
23 Hunter St., Sydney.
2f
“ Gip ” on a bird tragedy
Birds have their tragedies. This summer 1 watched a
swallow’s heart break. He brought her in, full of life and
iov She was a spoony little thing, and wanted to kiss
him all the time. They found a rabbit-skin drying on a
ledge near the iron roof. He seemed to think its furry
foundation heaven-sent; so they built their mud-house
on it and lined it snugly. She was frivolous and dis-
inclined to do her duty, but, two days after the comple-
tion of their home, she laid her first egg. From that
time her disposition changed. She kissed him no longer.
One day he brought home a beautiful long fluffy white
feather twice the length of himself and a bit over. He
proudly tucked it into the nest. It went right round
and stood up in a snowy mountain at one side. She
didn’t say a word, but when he’d flown out again, she
took the' feather in her beak and dropped it in the
garden. A few minutes later he, in much perturba-
tion, brought it back, a surprised look on his
head. He tucked it in once more, but directly
he’d left to catch an insect, she again carried it out, this
time dropping it over the fence. This performance went
on day, till at last he left it on the floor in disgust,
and I swept it into the fire. She sat on her eggs for nearly
a week, then, one day, she left. For two days and nights
there was no sign of her. He, in terrible excitement, flew
in and out, calling all the time. On the third day he left
at dawn, and at four in the afternoon brought her home.
They alighted on the edge, near the nest; and, if ever a
bird got a hot time, she did. He scolded at her till the
humpy rang again, opening his beak very widely at her
now and then. She sidled up to him and tried to kiss him,
but he refused to make it up. At last she nestled down
on the eggs and talked softly to them, but it was only to
please him. Next day she left for good. For a week he
flew round the nest calling and calling, and in between
times making pilgrimages. One evening he looked so
dejected and called so" plaintively that I, to cover my
emotion, lectured him severely on his indiscreet mar-
riage, telling him it was all his own fault. He left next
morning in sorrow, and a spider has woven a web across
his little mud-house and the three speckled eggs.
* * * *
“V.”: Apropos of dead whale and other
such matters, as per various recent Bulletins.
At one period of my guileless youth I was travel-
ling by steamer from Rockhampton southwards.
The steamer anchored for some reason or another
off the Golden Shore in Keppel Bay, and the
captain allowed me, in consideration of my tender
years, to go ashore in a boat he was sending for a
pilot or some such commodity. I employed the
time in capturing a large supply of little soldier
crabs, which I stowed in the pockets of my best
new sailor suit, with a view to fishing off the
steamer. The steamer’s anxiety to reach Brisbane
precluded this pastime, and I forgot the bait. I
was regarded with suspicion before the boat
reached Sydney, but the subseauent wild desire
of the Sydney public to escape from my immediate
vicinity, and the rude remarks I was subjected to
anent kids that should be fumigated, can never be
forgotten. The way my relatives talked when the
mystery was unravelled would have led anyone to
believe I did it on purpose.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Seems, according to a writer
in Bulletin (17/5/’OG), that trapping a snake is an
extraordinary feat, and the idea something to be
laughed at. At Urangeline Station (N.S.W.),
mail-driver “Billy” Walsh set a rat-trap for a
shake, leaving a saucer of milk for bait; and in
the morning he found the head of a large black
snake cut clean off in the milk, and the other part
trying to escape backwards up the wall it had
comedown. At Mt. Keira (Illawarra district) a
carpet snake, Oft. long, was once captured in a
rat-trap. It was early morning. Mrs. Hickey,
our young and pretty landlady, imagined it was
Tim’s “cowld arrum ” across her mouth; and
spoke to him about that same, as she didn’t want
“no love-makin’ at sich an onreasonable hour.”
Tim was obstinate, and wouldn’t remove the
offending limb. Then she threw it from her
mouth with violence, and it struck a rat-trap
set in a corner. The trap snapped, und two
yards of serpent flung it about the : >om until
daylight, breaking all the crockery and destroying
much wearing-apparel. It wasn’t Tim’s arm.
A GOOD HIDING.
GOOD MAN: “ Oh, my brother, it is better
to return good for evil.”
THE OTHER: “ Don't you interfere. I'm doin’ my
best.”
The wayback mining township of Tarcoola
(S. A.) lately, as the result of inclement weather,
suffered the horrors of a three weeks beer-famine.
The relieving camel-train foolishly arrived on a
Sunday, but, under the circumstances, all laws of
Charles 11. or otherwise against trading on the
Sabbath were unanimously taken out and drowned
in beer.
* * * *
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
“ Stony” : Up at the police-tent there was
chaos. Over against the flapping canvas of the
eastern tent-wall Larry Jones was chained to a
mighty log, which had been rolled up there to
take the place of prison walls. Larry was one of
those long birds, with legs like rubber, and fingers
like eagles’ talons for length and strength. He
was a strong man ; and strong that night with
the strength of seventeen
drinks. As he sprawled
alongside the log, he re-
garded the police-tent with
a knowing eye. Raw,son and
Collins, having disposed of
their insurgent by this sum-
mary method, had tracked
off again down the hill into
Blue Creek, to keep inviolate
the peace of the township.
As they walked off Larry
straightened out to the limit
of the log and chain and his
own body. In a moment he
had two of his elastic fingers
on the canvas —three—and
then his hand gripped well
on the loose edge. He pulled,
and immediately had both
hands busy. He kept pull-
ing, with his teeth closed
savagely on his lower lip.
There was a ripping and
rending, and the tent began
to be somewhat disarranged.
A fold of the canvas caught
on Rawson’s luxurious fold-
ing stretcher, and a leg of it
came within Larry’s crazy
reach. He tore it out from
its shelter beneath the tent,
smashed it on the log, and
threw the ruins away from
him. With it, the tucker-
safe, built of kerosene-cases,
came also, scattering its con-
tents of treacle and sugar
and jam. Larry kicked the
jam into next week. A bag
of flour came also, and a fair
share of its contents drifted
down upon Larry’s unheed-
ing head. There was a
further sound of ripping and
rending, and Larry col-
lapsed, tangled in a large
section of the wrecked tent.
He fell back, sprawling, and lay there for a
moment, fighting an imaginary foe, but pre-
sently emerged with a bewildered air from the
blackness which the canvas hid brought upon
him. He surveyed the ruins wildly for a moment,
and then, with triumph dawning in his eyes,
sank down again with his touzled head lolling
drowsily among the flour and treacle. Next
morning, after an uneasy and wakeful night, with
a makeshift breakfast aboard, Collins came down
the road with Larry Jones, who was duly manacled
beyond hope of flight. They were bound for
Boombeet and the J.P.’s.
A question was asked at La Perouse a
, . , i c ~ , • ,
week or two ago as to whether any ot the hairless
aborigines who settled about Sydney nearly 50
years ago left hairless descendants, but there is
no knowledge on the subject, lhe hairless people
invaded the coast from somewhere in the interior,
being driven eastward by hunger, and it is sur-
raised that if they had hairless descendants these
returned, later on, to their family haunts. There
’’, . .
is abundance of evidence that the visitors were
absolutely without hair ; the Crown Lands Com-
. . J , .. ~, j ..
missioner and the Governor of the day mvesti-
gated cases, and testified that the hair was not
, r .p of,rn« tribes indulged
meiely singed off—a practice some tribes indulged
in—but that there was never any to singe. Ihe
local aborigines showed no antipathy to the in-
. & .. . f e ■ , ~
vaders; on the contrary, they befriended them,
and, like the whites, regarded them with wonder,
* * * *
U rrn t> A • 1 ” ™ rroßoa •
ine Jrroaigai on snaKes .
Re “Musselburgh’s” par. (B. 26/4/’O6) and query as to
whether mate of killed snake is to be found 24 hours later
at same spot.
Have had ten years’ experience among snakes in every
State of Australia, and say decidedly “ no.” The relict is
not of an adventurous disposition, nor are any snakes
afflicted with the morbid desire to view the dead which
so manv people have.
That’s one thing in their favor—they have clean habits,
Have discovered one reason for the ignorant idea that
snakes don’t die till sundown. If you cut the heart clean
out of a snake and lay it on the ground, in nearly every
case it will beat for over 10 minutes, and in some cases up
to two hours. Hence, involuntary muscular action.
Is it commonly known that a venomous snake can be
distinguished from a non-venomous by the scales on the
head? The latter has scales same size as on body. The
former has seven large scales, two in front, three behind,
and two more behind these again, the longest being the
size of the nail on a man’s little finger.
Have handled dozens of snakes alive and dead, and
eaten ’em too, and have never felt that “ cold feeling"
they’re supposed to have.
While sleeping out some time ago was wakened by
feeling one crawling across my forehead. He went right
across. He wasn’t cold. I ivas. Got him afterwards
(4ft. bin ).
Is it true that, after ligaturing, etc., a snake-bite, to
lance it and apply permanganate of potash moistened with
saliva will cure and save life. [Yes; per. pot. is the
standard snake cure now.—Ed. 8.l
Snakes are deaf—very. Otherwise you wouldn’t nearly
stand on them as you do in long grass. In clear country
they get away usually before you see them.
AH-FAT
CLISTIAN
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
yfH FA T was he known as, until
A—J He ivas turned from his heathenish
Jf Ji ways,
When he took the cognomen of Bill,
Which he kept till the end of his days.
And he found, that it paid him to say —
For he was a business man, too —•
“ Want cabbagce, missee, to-day ?
Me Clistian, yes, allee same you! ”
He would say to the girl at the door :
“ You goo’ little missee and kind ;
You tellee me all about Gor’,
Poor Chinaman welly much blind.”
And the girl was so flattered at this
There was nothing for him she’d not do,
Even giving a Clistian kiss
To the Clistian, yes, allee same you.
But one day Ah Fat fell from grace,
He had gone on a bust with Ah Long,
And in town he was going the pace
With women, and whiskey, and song.
The police found him drunk on the floor,
So they got him a week in the cell ;
But his only reply was “ Whaffor ?
Me a Clistian, yes, ivelly much hell! ”
VIC.
JAMES F. MERRILLEKS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A 'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, ivhether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Tigerton: Your verses leave a horrible brown
taste in the mouth Dick: (1) You reckon that
Maoriland should issue bonds to nationalise its lands
because Japan issued bonds to nationalise its railways,
and say “ What the yellow heathen can accomplish we
can accomplish.” You omit one thing : Japan is steadily
paying off its debt, and in a few years the temporary
addition made by the railway purchase will be wiped out.
Profligate Maoriland isn’t paying off a farthing of its
debt, is stealing' its sinking funds, and is borrowing fran-
tically for all manner of unproductive works. There is no
parallel between the cases. (2) Already declined to publish
“ Why Land Resumption should precede Protection.”....
Cocky: (1) Don’t think that The Bulletin is hostile to
the “cocky.” This paper wantsto see every class flourish-
ing and the “ cocky ” developed into the prosperous far-
mer. (2) Pars are of notquite enough interest J.C.M.:
No ; the point to which “ Meg” referred wouldn’t hold in
the case of most time-payment contracts... .F.N. (R'ton):
Thanks Macharn : ' The Bulletin subscribed to
the Immigration League because it believes that
an immigrant increase of population is desirable ;
but previously, the League withdrew from print
all its “ anti-Socialism ” rubbish and declared that
it was neither for nor against any party....
Philo : Fear you would teach your grandmother to suck
eggs if you got the chance. “ Snow-gum ” presumably
knew all about the spider’s web-making industry. His
question was how much can the spider make ?... .Aber-
crombie : Outhouse jokes not in our line... .Rudolph :
Can’t give your version of a sub judice matter... .Nemo :
Efforts to work up the agony are too palpable. Write
more simply W.G.P. : The picture was partly sarcas-
tic. But, anyhow, there was wanted some dissent from
the sickening flow of slush and slobber... .Mariner : One
par. usable B. Gray : Your willingness to take a giil
without any eyes, “ so long as her heart is true,” is extra-
ordinary, but it isn’t poetry Naumai : Not enough
interest G.B.D. : “ Humpybong ” too wild and wind3
up with too many incoherent yells cf “ bong.”... .B.S. :
You throw a very scrappy side-light on the servant-girl
problem... .G.S. : Reasonably good, but somewhat out of
our line D.T.M. : The idea has been more effectively
used by Henry Lawson.... Roadster : No sustained in-
terest Nevets : Pretty, but conveys no distinct idea.
....A.C.F. : Not quality enough for verse of such playful
vein Starlight: Moderate merit only Edward II.:
An unskilled hand... .R. A.G. : Thanks; no—don’t
send. Verses no good O.B. : Sorry unsuitable....
L. : Picturesque; but too conventional in tone
and treatment Squeaker: Not bad for a be-
ginning Davey H. : Indifferent quality as yet
T.W.F. : Rather dull S.S.S. : Would have been
interesting if it had been less confused and jerky
W.J.O. : Good in spots only Tirnon : Too many vicissi-
tudes in the metre A.K.S.: Neat, but flat and color-
less... .James B. : Artistically very inferior Jephsbn
M. : Merely an amplification of a weary old chestnut....
R. Carrington: Too badly constructed Archie B. :
Rather silly... .J.M.O. : “Self-Denial” is very strained
humor. Don’t remember the other... .B.H.: “Megson ”
required a lighter touch... .Ronald F. : Amusing, but has
too many weak spots... ,T.R. : Hardly up to the mark.
Wilfred B. : Doesn’t suit us in that form
The Lyre: Badly out of tune on this occasion—St.
Arthur : Well enough versified, but not worth the
trouble M.V.B. : Rather picturesque, but they don’t
carry literary' weight enough.... U. Looloo : Weak treat-
ment of a well-worn subject... M. Henry Ross: An im-
practicable fragment... .C.W.D. : Track too well-beaten.
Mac O. : You have the arrogance of ignorance. You
will need to learn a lot yet before you are fit to deal with
such subjects S.S.C. : Very near the mark, but rather
too digressive and long-winded... .O.T.L. : Labor in
vain ; you haven’t the knack... ,W. (B.C.S.): Absurdly'
long-winded and grandiloquent... .H.P.C. : One verse of
your poem will linger in our minds till death, the great
obliterator, comes along :—
“Bear,” you observe; not “beer ’....0ne who
knows: Sympathise fully. The girl who has a baby is
often more truly “moral ” than the girl who hasn’t. In
fact, taking it all in all, a baby, even when illegitimate,
is proof of some virtue.... Bostboon : (1) Haven’t much
space for India’s mis-government. (2) No reason for The
Bulletin to “ reconsider its attitude ” on sceular educa-
tion. It is the business of the State to see that children
are taught the elementary facts of civilised life. But the
State isn’t in a position to teach the facts about religion,
because it doesn’t know. (3) We’re not at all ceitain
that religion—taking the word to mean what many
shepherds put forward as religion—does necessarily
“inculcate morality, honesty, and virtue.” Patience :
“ Man Proposes ” too melancholy... .Lela M. : “ Queen ”
declined with some hesitation. Rather uneven Edah :
No use at all Political Economy: Who is this
“Cosmos” who seems to have put the world right by
stating in the Western Grazier that “No.hing but
disaster can follow in the train” of Protection. Is he
any' relation to the man who stated in the Eggvillb Ex-
terminator that there was no God, and thus dealt relig ion
a blow from which it is never likely to recover? E. :
Anecdote obscene, and penny stamp no good for return.
W.A.L. : It’s a long answer ; but the point is of some
importance. ‘ ‘ The Man with the Hoe ”or “ Labor ” was
painted by Millet, the most famous of modern painters,
whose great series of canvases all deal with tl.e life of the
lowly'. As to his “ meaning ”or “object,” he probably
had none. The greatest art is not consciously didactic. It
expresses what it sees, and leaves to others to find the
“meaning.” If Millet “painted with the idea of satiris-
ing the agricultural classes,” his picture could not have
become the great work it is. If, again, he had set himself
to preach an economic sermon in paint, he would neces-
sarily have failed to reach supreme art. What he did was
to see a bit of truth and put it on canvas. From that
canvas different minds glean different impressions.
Probably the view expressed in Markham Davis’
verse _ printed with The Bulletin picture repre-
sents the best thought the picture has evoked
Poor Hawk : No good spoiling a good case with fallacious
arguments. The rabbit would only find that remunera-
tive employ'ment whilst it was a pest. When bunny’s
numbers went down so would trappers’profits S.M. :
No, there is no payment of members in Britain yet
H. Lewis : Well, it’s not of much interest. We take the
lady’s word for it Frederic: A halting effort... .The
Squeaker : Humor of the “ Childrens’ Column ” travesty
about played out H.S.D. : Can’t say. Perhaps it
was Capital leaving the country with a loud report
A.L.: Style looks pretty hopeless F.X.Q.: No;
canaries often learn to whistle tunes.. ..E J.N.: Glad to
get (and pay for) suggestions. But yours didn’t hit the
mark E.M.W.: Don’t see the humor of bath-room
sketch. It’s naked, certainly, but nakedness isn’t neces-
sarily humor Senex : Crude and coarse Tarucco :
Not strong enough.
“ We would canter off with barking dogs,
For milking time was near,
Clearing fences, fallen trees and logs
And passing oft a native bear.”


JARGE Reio
[ffye only]
1 | IT for l^e~greater
f>A r f^of An outdoor,
of>en Air life i$ not" recorded
*> a M
In fact" a very dear friend 1 „
of o«r<j 'tlje A n y .
h r seddon li2tS * >
me roamY,
Useful Hint's v/h'cH W* M "
in Ve sßrtliW *>Y I»>*”> or /-
[Went]
D«vi | \£z4*s\~ .
[to T|vnK«yj : Ns —<3as? C&
Please si r t s<\ys 'Hjin
clovtiiro been At" u [> to Ife.
fye 'fry Bshw Sohne
for-flje, rjC7<T", 5 Icyp !
_ THE HERALD,
I Ve CjVil
(\C j> nfatT 0 1 Should »»f'
i?«. rej>«2<lad on A*>/ A c c©unt p”\
'tf<t Coh^ulie^.
JVl^lrv'inaJ
P| liter I rite »nA»»ne.r o
PARLIAMENT OF AUSTRALIA.
THE FINAL SESSION OPENED TO-DAY.
SPEECH BY THE COYER NOR-GENERAL
THE MINISTRY’S PROGRAMME OF WORK.
HIS EXCELLENCY’S SPEECH.
Gentlemen,—
1. I have callea you together, I rejoice
to say, 1 oaesnsaof sbr -Ae,
to say, in a season of general prosperity
'throughout the Commonwealth, su „
'HT'S iorT~of -
Co»oCs *7t>'t~' 3 — ~
enoMol) S©d.x'
V'ltt H~ !" *
" tirßeid Vty<V
tr4W tno~tto. »
|\fil !
JTfev/s
\ rjh© SttrVttjjfy
Xfr flje Jny
ħ
Iffe Jirofit Itfe Melb
City foui/cil £kclnL
S u ff>ly % y e * r
is 3^14,000/
vf>-
d LjuT
J l/(>
w
p Waji
Socialistic oog>y.'
'' Here 5 0 *ny! *s & li+Me
'trifle 'to go on wi it£j
lu i7\ rrr . .>■
Tt Melb Uh«- ) J*fo.veT ?^ a «^ ! d^'
eVVuWti' °tt ,ci *' vii ' htr
VICTORIAN EPISODES.


SEDDON.


\
Simply rinse the mouth
and cleanse the teeth with Odol
in the morning- and before retiring-,
and the breath will be always
delightfully fresh and the mouth
free from dangerous impurities.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol , lasting for several
months (the half-size bottle 1/6 J.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Enter “ JIMMIE ” ATHOLWOOD.
Died suddenly at sea, on board the
Oswestry Grange, when between Sydney and
Wellington, Richard John Seddon, aged 61, after
being Premier of Maoriland for 13 years one
month and ten days. No other Australasian
Premier ever put up a record like his for the
length of his Premiership, the vastness of
his majorities, and the courage of his
legislation. And he put up another re-
cord in the fact that at the very hour of his
death he seemed more firmly seated in the
Premiership than he was 13 years ago. Presum-
ably Joseph Ward will succeed him, but the
chances are that Maoriland will now enter on a
j> riod of short-lived Ministries and sudden
ch. mges. Two such durable men as Seddon do
nut come in succession.
Constable F. P. Quirk, of N.S.W. Police,
was entertained by his comrades, the other day, on
his way to Glasgow to take out his medical dip-
loma. He is a B.A. of Sydney' University and
jwas beguiled to the study of medicine through the
First Aid classes.
“Adelaide”: Will
someone please remove
Josiah Symon, K.C.,
anj Federal Sena-
tor? Let him be
made a High Court
Judge, or an am-
bassador or a /
duke, or a joss—
only let him be
removed from
the S.A. Bar.
He is a bigger
man than
most of those
at present on
the Bench,
and does not
take any
trouble to
hide the fact
that he knows
it. Also he
thinks he is
bigger than he
is. So my
morning paper
is tilled up at
short intervals
with silly squab-
bles called
“Scene in
Court.” It is like
Clem Hill taking
a hand in a fifth-
rate cricket match
and sassing the
umpire. Judge
Homburg hurried
off the Bench the
other day when
Symon and Paris
Nesbit insisted on
squabbling; the '
Court stood ad -
journed for one (lun-
cheon) hour, and
opinions are divided as
to whether his Honor
acted weakly or with crushing dignity. Any-
way, Symon was telling Homburg, a day
or two later, that “we have not been
accustomed to these things here, and to be treated
in that way in this court.” Ever since Josiah was
told by Chief Justice Way to sit down, and
replied, “ I will not sit down,” and was allowed
to remain standing up, the court hasn’t had a
chance to call its soul its own. Symon has never
yet bumped up against the new Judge, the courtly
Gordon. He will do it some day, and then if
Gordon fails to suppress him the S.A. Supreme
Court might as well sell out.
Reynolds’ Newspaper, London, states
that Chief Justice Stone, of Westralia, told an
interviewer how he was once a corner-man in a
Christy minstrel entertainment. He is now a
stickler for the dignity of the court, and anyone
looking, at him would conclude that Reynolds’
had made a very bad mistake.
There is now dwelling at Wiangarie sta-
tion, Upper Richmond River (N.S.W.), a black
gin, alleged to be aged over 100. She is said to be
Australia’s oldest aborigine. She is vouched for,
in a way, by young bucks of 70 or thereabouts—at
least, they look 70 but may only be 50 —who
remember her as a “respectable married woman
living with her husband ” what time they were
picaninnies and chased the bounding kangaroo.
What age she was then they don’t say—perhaps
25. It is all very hazy and uncertain, but Sister
Blot passes for 100, anyhow.
“ Edy ” : Consider the rise of Judkins, of
Melbourne. Only the other day he was unheard
of. Now he is in every parson’s mouth,
he figures in leaders, and his picture
ornaments the pages of the illustrated
press. He was an inconsequential person
who talked about the horrors of the beer
habit till he ventured to address Jack
Wren in terms of hatred and disrespect,
and to say scornful things about Billy
Squires. Then he awoke next morning to
find himself famous. Fearful of sinking
back into his former no-account condition,
and dreading the prospect of having his
privacy respected, he has repeated the dose
at every opportunity, and now Judkins is
a celebrity. Timid, be-spectacled clergy-
men call him a hero, Judges mention him,
respectable heads of families thank God
that we have still men amongst us who
dare to strike at the hydra-heads of “ what’s
this” and “who d’ you call ’im,” and daily
papers treat him as a force, or a farce, as
the spirit moves them. But it’s all adver-
tisement for J udkins.
It was mentioned with pride, the
other night, at a Methodist mission meet-
ing, that good Ebenezer Vickery, in addi-
tion to buying up Sydney Lyceum Theatre
and extinguishing the melodrama that used
to rage there, had bought an adjacent
gambling den and suppressed the sinful
game of poker or two-up. But these
are only a part of Ebenezer’s good works.
He also bought up a hotel and sup-
pressed the beer and the beer-pump, and
in another locality he is said to have
purchased a cottage that was a notorious
house of joy, and that cottage is now as
respectable as Baxter’s “ Saints’ Rest.” But
the mummers mum elsewhere, and the
Flossies floss in another house somewhere,
and the publican pubs at a new stand, and
the two-uppers two-up at a different ad-
dress, and, after all, what has Ebenezer
done? The “suppression” is very much
like pouring a bucket of water into a differ-
ent bucket, and calling it suppressing the water.
George Shenton, retired grocer, banking
magnate, knight, and several other things, has
vacated the president’s chair in the W. A. Legis-
lative Council, once aptly dubbed the Chamber of
Cheerless Chumps. J. W. Haekett, part pro-
prietor and supreme boss of the arid West Aus-
tralian, should get Shenton’s job if it goes by
seniority, and the presidentship would bring him
within measurable distance of a K.C.M.G.-ship,
which he fervently prays for. At present he is
only an honorary “Dr.”
A Melbourne woman, lately deceased,
bequeathed her little fortune of £2300 to the cause
of assisted immigration as far as her native towns-
folk were concerned. She was born at Leighton-
Buzzard, a sleepy little English town in the straw-
plaiting line of business, and her will directs that
the income from her £2300 shall be expended in
paying the passages of selected Leighton-Buzzar-
dians who want assisting out to Victoria. She
had so much affection for her English birthplace
that she desired to give its poorer residents a
chance to escape. The Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co., as administrators of the will, have
just remitted the first instalment of money
towards this humanitarian design.
ON PRINCIPLE.
LABOR M EMBER: “ No, cabby, I won't have him.
He works more than eight hours.”
Advices from London raise a suspicion
that the literary lady who never had a bath in
Australia takes one even less frequently in
England.
A batch of names taken by a constable on
a Sydney two-up premises lately included nine
Alfred Deakins. And the ingenuous bobby not
only suspected nothing, but did not know any
prominent person of that name.
Dr. Fred Marshall, of Sydney, is a sudden
and sensational dramatist in real life. Within 18
months he buried his wife and his sister, married
again, stood trials for alleged manslaughter, and
filed his schedule.
A German farmer, of Penshurst (Vie.), left
nothing to chance in the matter of putting out the
light of his vital spark. He climbed a rafter with
a gun and rope. Tying the rope to the rafter, he
then fixed a noose around his neck and fired the
gun. The shot blew the top of his head off, and
his body as it fell was hung by the rope. There
is a thoroughness about the Germans that few
other races attain. Probably this man took
poison before shooting and hanging himself.
N.S.W. bankrupt Waddell lias been re-
leased from prison after 14 months’ detention for
refusing to answer a question. His “I-ain’t-
a-going-to-tell attitude” was taken up, he said,
because his word of honor would be broken if he
spoke. And he still hasn’t told, but the Registrar
in Bankruptcy reports that he has got from other
sources the information he wanted from Waddell,
and sensibly decides not to pursue bankrupt’s
contempt of court any further.
A Chinaman was let off lately by a Sydney
Bench with three hours’ imprisonment for at-
tempted suicide, to the intense indignation of a
bush lawyer, who states that he himself, for a like
offence, received a month. He sees in the conduct
of the Bench partiality to the Chow, which he
terms unfair and un-British. The bush lawyer
misses the point. He got a month for trying to
kill a man of importance. The Chow got three
hours for trying to kill a man of no importance.
It was all a question of relative importance.
The manner is the man. Bent rushes out
of the room crying, “Lies, lies, lies.” Deakin, in
similar circumstances, would observe in a silvery
tone: “Well, gentlemen, the slight differences,
if any, are probably, after all, only such as result
when honorable gentlemen regard a subject from
different points of view.” And he wouldn’t
withdraw from the room, but would remain
smiling.
The first kind word The Bulletin has
heard about the great deputy cuss-prophet:—
Down in St. Kilda (Vic.), where Voliva used to live when
he was Dowie’s Australian overseer, the tradesmen arise
and call his name blessed. It was Voliva’s custom never
to ask for change. If he owed a butcher £2 I] a. Bd. he
would hand out £2 15s. and say it was near enough. All
the small boys in the locality swear by the beetle-browed
vituperator, and pine the livelong day for the largesse of
lollies and crackers he was wont to dispense, with a few
words of comfort spoken through his nose.
W. F. Wentworth-Shields, the first railway
engineer in N.S.W., lately died in England, aged
85. In his day, railway building in N.S.W. was a
Private Enterprise affair, and it was only when the
private companies one by one muddled themselves
into bankruptcy that the State took the matter
up. In Shields’ time there was an agreement
that the Australian railways were to be of the
sft. 3in. gauge, and it was the breaking of this
agreement which led to the diversity of gauge
between N.S.W. and Victoria, and that again led
to Queensland flving off the handle with a 3ft. 6in.
gauge and making general chaos. Shields pro-
posed to put the Sydney railway station at the
corner of Campbell and Elizabeth streets, which
was ridicuously far out, and the incapables who
came after him moved it still further out.
I here was lately a firm of two attorneys
at Launceston (Tas.). One member was the son
of a clergyman and the other was a preacher him-
self. It is now a firm of three attorneys. The
original two have taken in a third man/who is a
sporting character, and can look after a cheerful
and doggy class of business that no one dreamed
of bringing to the old firm lest it should die of
shock. This sort of thing is wisdom, and the man
of law is generally wise, but not always There
was once a pious Vic. barrister who wouldn’t
touch divorce cases. Solicitors who brought him
business had to take these particular cases to some
of his lost brethren, for the good barrister shud-
dered at the sight of them. Gradually the other
cases went to the lost brethren also, and the good
barrister died a pauper.
W. W. Webster, M.H.R. (N.S.W.), has
just completed a little tour of his electorate. He
spent 95 days travelling 1600 miles by vehicle, and
2000 miles by rail, addressing 45 meetings en
route. Even this leaves three portions of the
electorate unvisited, and they will necessitate a
further three weeks’ absence, travelling mainly by
road. Miss Webster, who lias been her father’s
secretary since he went into Parliament five years
ago, accompanied him through a large portion of
his electorate, visiting many of the electors in
back regions where they were only accessible on
horseback.
Salathiel Booth, who died the other day
at Kyneton (Vic.), was a big pastoralist in Vic-
toria, N.S.W. and Queensland for the last 60
years. Among the Victorian stations of which
he was part owner at different times were one on
the Lower Loddon in ’47; Lake Bael Bael,
Murrabit and Pental Island (between Kerang and
Swan Hill); Gunbower (near Ecliuca). Also
there were Momalong in Riverina ; Midkin, near
Moree (N.S.W.); and Auburn (Q.). A mighty
and long-continued reacher-out after soil was
Salathiel Booth, pastoralist.
Elder McCullagh, present Melbourne boss
of Elijah Dowie’s alleged church, is evidently lay-
ing himself out to capture what remains of the
local organisation for himself. T’other Sunday
he declared, “ Dowie is wrong; Voliva is
wrong; nine clergymen out of every ten are
wrong.” Only Eider McCullagh is right. He
asserts that money ruined Dowie ; as Zion’s total
Australian assets amount to only about £lOO, he
is himself not in any immediate danger of similar
disaster. McCullagh was originally a Seventh
Day Adventist, but left because of that body’s re-
fusal to countenance his faith-healing ideas—not
that there is reason to believe that McCullagh
ever healed anybody to any serious extent.
“ Alix” from Tortoise Town :
Adelaide has at last produced something in the genius
line that does not warble, fiddle, or thump the ivories.
Ada Rigby, a clever kiddy of 15, shows a remarkable
talent for photograph and postcard tinting—a talent
which, a little later, should develop into something
worth while. Her portrait studies from life are ex-
ceedingly clever, and the tinting, a less common
achievement in the Holy City, has aroused anthusiasm.
Adelaide girls are now busily seeking out the photos of
Julius of the Calves, Cuyler of the Wooden Countenance,
and such-like heroes, that the clever girleen may endue
them with life. If they don’t happen to possess a photo,
they chop a print from Tiie Bulletin or somewhere, send
it along, and lo! it comes back mounted and colored
wizard-wise. Various clever people, who ought to know,
are prophesying a fine career for the 15-year-old artist.
‘ ‘ Rip ” : lie par. about William Aberdeen,
one of the gold discoverers of June, ’5l (B.
31/5/’ofi). In ’53 he built the first hotel at Castle-
maine (the Commercial), paying the workmen 30s.
a day and free liquor. In ’6O he unsuccessfully
contested a seat in the Leg. Council, afterwards
explaining that he had not had time to properly
“tower” the constituency. Present writer once
heard him tell County Court Judge Bindon in
the witness-box that it was impossible for him to
fall under the influence of alcohol, because he
always took a glass of milk before breakfast.
When he became excited at election times it
always required four constables to reduce him ta
a reasonable state of calm.
A label The Bulletin noticed when it bought
its last plug. “ Trades Union,” “ Safety ,” and
“Made in Japan ”
Captain James Field Crawford, who
crossed the bar recently at Oarnaru (M.L.), aged
91, was a lot of things in his time. His father
was a captain, and his grandfather an admiral in
the British navy. He entered the service himself
as a youth, but abandoned it for the mercantile
marine, and later on commanded his Own ship.
He came to Melbourne early, left the sea, and
began dealing in coal. His firm owned the first
steamer on the Darling. Afterwards he did some
exploring, and in 1858 led a prospecting expedi-
tion from Adelaide to the Barrier and the Grey
Ranges. Later on he owned a sheep and cattle
station at Corinella (Vic.), but threw it up after
being pretty well burnt out, and went to Maori-
land. He was a rather tired old man by that
time, and found the white stone city of Oarnaru a
restful place.
“DISLOYAL!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Certain sections of the community belittle that affec-
tion for the Motherland, and that loyalty to the throne
and the free institutions of Great Britain, which animate
the hearts and minds of Britons under the Southern
Cross. The cry of “Australia for the Australians,” so
frequently heard in some quarters, and thoughtlessly
applauded by the unthinking, is only too obviously at
times a cloak for disloyalty... and extremely foolish.
Those who raise that cry forget that, but for British
colonisation of Australia, the only Australians to keep
Australia for would probably be the aborigines. Aus-
tralia for the Empire is a grander, nobler, and more
patriotic cry.... Let us love Australia by all means, but
let us not forget, also, the dear old Motherland, to whom
we are indebted for so rich a heritage.
— W. E. Johnson, in the S.M. Herald.
I must beg your pardon, Johnson, ere I any further go,
For addressing you thus freely, as we don’t each other
know;
But I cannot pass your statements, for they irritate me
so.
There are “ sections,” Mister Johnson, of the type where
you belong,
That disparage their own country, which to them is
always wrong,
But have blatant admiration for “ the Old Land ” ever
strong.
So you rate them as “unthinking,” that to nation-notions
cling?
And “ disloyal ” and “ most foolish ” who their own pro-
gression sing ?
Go and pray for wisdom, Johnson, ere more platitudes
you string.
Go and find h. motto, Johnson, less egregious and trite
Than “ Australia for the Empire,” where we never can
unite;
For “ the Empire’s ” mostly motley, and our lands here
must be white.
Did she “ colonise ” our country who sent here the con-
vict ship
With its outcast load of victims to the fetter and the
whip?
While the heart has doubts of England shall we praise her
with the lip ?
As for British “institutions,” they are far away from
here ;
Much too distant to be clearly recognised, or very dear ;
And they “ animate ” us, Johnson, very frigidly, I fear.
And our “loyalty,” we keep it, and our heart’s affection,
too,
For the homeland which we’re sharing with the bounding
kangaroo :
For man cannot serve two masters with a service that is
true.
So, although we love our own land, as you kindly give us
leave,
We our duty to “ the Empire ” don’t so readily perceive,
“Owing” nothing for a fabric which our own strong
efforts weave.
On the “ dear Old Country ” fetish I would heap no
n edless scorn ;
But it is not from her storehouse that we get our wine
and corn,
And “ the Motherland,” O Johnson, is the land where one
is born.
Then again I beg your pardon, Mister Johnson, but I
think
If you must find busy pleasure in the splash of pen and
ink,
You might barrack for the country where you gain your
food and drink.
vie.
TALAFEKAU.


We are Nothing', if not Drapers
A DRAPER is KNOWN IN THESE PARTS as “CALICO JIMMY.”
In dealing WITH THIS PART of our business we experience a feeling of the UTMOST SATISFACTION, because although more recently established sections have fully justified the
CARE and SOLICITUDE bestowed upon them, we cannot forget that the ALMA MATER of our enterprise WAS THE DRAPERY TRADE.
IT IS OUR BOAST that practically we HAVE NO RIVALS, other drapers come and go, and MUSHROOM SHOPS start up here and there WITH THE A'VOWED INTENTION
OF LAYING US OUT, but our name still CONTINUES ON TOP, and while our goods are everywhere acknowledged to be the best, the FAMOUS LOW PRICES which
have MADE US SO POPULAR find FIRM FRIENDS IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD.
Patterns and Price Lists
sent Post Free anywhere.
'*3
B
No. 33.
The “Count the Cost ” Needle Case, Leatherette
covered, containing an assortment of 273 best Gold-
eyed Needles, various kinds, and 10 Calyx-eyed Needles.
2s 6d.
Postage Anywhere 2d extra.
■
Ulif'Sl
i i ir^poiii
m
m
lill
No. 40.
Leatherette Haberdashery Box, contain-
ing Scissors, Cotton, Sewing Silk, Needles
and Thimbles, etc.
2s 9d. Postage anywhere 4d extra.
////«*«'• ■imJll,Ul( illllijHni' jiiiiAw ui'A
No. 41.
Leatherette Haberdashery Box,
containing Scissors, Sewing Silk,
Cotton, Needles, Thimble, etc.
1s 4 1 2 d.
Postage anywhere,
2d extra.
yiy-tr.
w’U
« \v’ f
3 --^r^
y ' -5^
•)
*'*PSBw*-
m
u 'Mr*
No. 39.
The “Complete” Needle Book, Leather covered,
containing 170 Gold-eyed Needles, Scissors, Crochet
Hook, etc.
2s 6d. Postage anywhere 2d extra.
HAIR PINS in PRETTY BOXES.
PINS of FANCIFUL CHARACTER.
NEEDLES for PLAIN C&, FANCY WORK.
ALL SORTS of HABERDASHERY.
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
u
ft* ft
GANZ
Turbine Pumps
for mines, water-supply
works, etc., to suit all
kinds of requirements,
are supplied and erected
by the
Austral Otis
Engineering Co-
Cr. Hanna & Kavanagh Streets, South Melbourne,
Have You a PHONOGRAPH ?
h
If so, what are you paying for Records 1
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others iu Tone and
Durability.
PRICE 1/3 EACH -
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash StSydney, N.S. W.
IE
- i-i *
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
/"’ONDUCT ED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
UNLOCKING THE LANDS.
The Midland Railway Company of Western Australia
LIMITED
are now subdividing their concession of
2,500,000 Acres,
Comprising some of the finest AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING COUNTRY in the State of
Western Australia, into FARMS and GRAZING PROPERTIES.
THE FIRST SALE of
ONE HUNDRED SPLENDID FARMS, and
MOOR A and KOOGAN TOWN SITES
Will be held by Public Auction at the QUEEN’S HALL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA, on
FRIDAY, JUNE 22nd, at 2.30 p.m.,
BY
JAME-S GARDINER, Auctioneer.
T gWIESE FARMS are situated from 90 to 108 Miles from PERTH, the Capital City of Western
JL Australia, fronting and served by the Company’s own railway. None of them are more than
4 miles from railway station or sidings—with a very convenient train service.
RICH AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING LANDS. 19 to 22in. RAINFALL.
Good Roads. RED FRIABLE SOIL, Easily Tilled. GREAT FATTENING COUNTRY.
The Concession is situated between the METROPOLIS and the GREAT MURCHISON
GOLDFIELDS.
Western Australia imported last year £1,500,000 worth of Land Products.
FARMERS—COME AND SEE ! and let the Land speak for itself.
AVERAGE YIELDS for Country separated from this by only the Railway Line, for 1905-6
WHEAT, 20 Bushels; HAY, 30g Cwt.
WATER easily obtained and conserved. NO HEAVY CLEARING.
UPSET PRICES fixed from 6s to 40s per acre. ALL UPSETS marked on the Plan.
The whole of the Blocks will be offered by Public Auction, and sold to the highest bidder at or
above the Upset Price fixed.
TEEMS —Ten per cent. Cash Deposit; Balance by 15 equal Annual Payments, bearing
Interest at 4 per cent. The balance of the purchase-money can be paid off at any time, and a rebate
of interest will be allowed at the rate charged ; or purchaser may pay Cash.
On payment of the whole of the purchase-money the TITLE is guaranteed by the Western
Australian Government. POSSESSION given the day after the Sale.
If you intend inspecting, send a wire either to the office of the Company or to the Auctioneers
stating by what steamer you are coming, and you will be met, and every facility will be given
for inspection. °
If you have not received an Illustrated Pamphlet, giving the fullest particulars, send a Post
Card addressed to GORDON AND GOTCII, SYDNEY, and one will be sent you by return of
post, free of charge.
JAMES GARDINER, Auctioneer,
Howard Street, PERTH, W.A.
0R THE MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY
OP WESTERN AUSTRALIA, Limited,
293 St. George’s Terrace, PERTH, W.A.


,oV
**
Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA feRY
0?<?
U:
f IJS’EST EXTRA Q?
Wit
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
§ Dress FABRies
Are Stocked bv the
i Leading Drapers.
J/ARK
THE VARNISHED BOARS
A 9
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ Sydney, June 12, 1906.
My Deab Arini.—
Mr. Seddon’s death profoundly shocked Sydney.
The nearness of the tragedy brought the sense
of what is a national calamity more home to
us. The Seddon family—there are six daugh-
ters and three sons—were the most devoted
group that one could meet. Their affection for
the lost Head, his for them, and their love for
each other wag the admiration of Maori-
land. Three daughters are married. One
of them, Mrs. Dyer, had remained behind
as Mr. Owen Cox’s guest, and to her
Miss Bonsor had to break the news of the
father s death. A few minutes before his death
Mr. Seddon, lounging in his cabin, was playing
with a tiny puppy he had bought for his daughter
May and laughing at the fact that this was
the very first dog he had ever bought. Then
with the remark, “Here, take your dog away,”
lie leant back on his wife’s shoulder and murmur-
ing “ 0 mother,” died.
Premier Seddon’s last public appearance in
Australia was at the Criterion Theatre. He and
a party of friends saw “ The Man from Mexico,”
highly enjoyed its fun, and went out with the
principals of the co. to supper. Supper was a
rushed ceremony as the boat to carry the Maori-
landers back to their island home was puffing with
impatience in the offing. That was King Dick’s
last impression of Sydney.
Miss Violetta Londa, daughter of an ex-Ex. of
Victoria (Sydenham Clarke) has, we are told,
gone in for short story-writing as well as platform
singing. She started her pernicious habit while
yet her father waved his hat feathers over Mel-
bourne, and several of her stories appeared in the
Australasian. Probably no one on the staff,
save Editor Watterston, knew that they trickled
from that vice-regal source. By the way, no
paper in Australia would admit the drivel—super-
ficial, commonplace and snobbish—that flows in
the form of the short story through the English
press. That is in the “ popular ” magazines and
society weeklies. I have not read anything of Miss
Londa’s, but she won’t need much mental outfit
to get into the columns of, say, Modern Society
or M. A.P. Have just read a story in the former,
in which those good old properties—the beautiful
young governess, the “bounder” employer, and the
earl’s son—are the writer’s principal baggage.
Pretty Miss Governess is nearly as “well-born”as
is his young lordship who desires to marry her. In
snob stories the girl who marries the lord must
turn out to be a Somebody even if she is the
underpaid teacher of Miss Gladys Fitz-Fat. But
for his own sake, for the sake of the family who
have an American heiress lassoed for him, she re-
pulses him, and he goes to the Rockies to shoot big
game.
Good old Rockies, good old wild beasts in the
Rockies, good old lord potting at them with an
aim about as true as he levelled at the Boers.
Good old girl in England loving him desperately
the while she snubs his rival, young Reginald Fitz-
Fat, whose intentions are strictly dishonorable.
In the Modern Society story when the door
of the Fitz-Fat mansion is thrown open and
the butler announces “Lord Langley,” and
later again “throws” it open to announce
“the Earl of Chedgrave,” visitors to Miss
Governess; they would not be found dead with
the Fitz-Fats—you may imagine the thrill of joy,
and almost see the starting tear, of the £l5-a-year
nursery-governess or lodging-house slavey as she
reads the story by the light of a two-inch candle
m her garret. What happens to Governess Una
Carew may happen to Mary Ann. (It is quite
as possible as the walrus and the carpenter walk-
ing hand in hand, or the monkeys that wandered
affectionately at sunset clasping each other’s tails.)
By the way, is there any instance on record of a
peer marrying a governess? (The governess is
usually a woman of refinement, unblemished
morals, and education.) But every year some
peer (a peer of old descent or a new beer-peer)
marries into the ballet and music-halls. The
stage lady never sends her noble lover off to the
Rockies to the possible hug of the big grizzly.
She takes the hugs and family diamonds and says
“ Rats ! ” to the old earl’s protests, and the old
earl goes down with borrow to the grave (if he is
an impecunious old earl).
There was a grand military command night at
the Criterion on Friday last. I don’t know a bit
how such a fine-sounding frisk is brought about.
Presumably General Gordon sends someone who
stalks like King Tarquin in his pride, and who is
waited on by twelve spearmen, to the box-office
to make demand for all the best space in the
house, on pain of having it taken at the point of
the bayonet. Anyhow, “grand military com-
mand night” sounds fine and large. A great
temptation occurs to say something about
the lamps shining bright o’er fair women
and brave men, but the inclination is resisted
with “Get thee behind me, Chestnut.” The
“ front ” of the house looked as bright almost as
the stage. Grace Palotta (who perhaps knows
the different uniforms and saw a predominance of
artillery men in the audience) came out in the last
act with the gunners’ colors, and received many
flowers; and various military gentlemen in very
tight clothes laughed guardedly for fear something
might happen. You have to keep a very close
guard on your laughs if you are an elderly mili-
tary buck and “ have them all on.”
The details of Maxim Gorky’s alleged insult to
the purity of the Yankee home make it out a
very innocent affair after all. Ge icy visited
America with a lady to whom he had been legally
married, after divorcing his former wife according
to the law of Finland. He went to Finland to get
a divorce which he couldn’t obtain in Russia, just
as the American goes to South Dakota for the
same purpose. But, in this respect, Finland
seems respectable alongside South Dakota. It
has other visible means of support besides road-
agency and the sale of lightning divorces.
Those two well-dressed damsels, the Kelso
Kings, are back from a trip during which
one of them got engaged to one of a firm of art
men. As they are wearing their hats vertically
over one ear, that style must be the way they a
worn by the very best people in foreign parts;
Most of the American and ducal houses have
been furnished through Warings. This season
they refurnished and decorated the White
-Drawing Room at Sandringham, hustling out the
early Victorian furniture with which it was
cumbered. The slippery hair-cloth sofa and the
.Battle of Prague went years ago out of every
swell house except the Royal Palace evidently.
A na—really England must be growing disloyal—
when the rejected furniture was auctioned at a
mart nary a bid was there for it ! Even
though the auctioneer told the dealers where it
came from.
Pretty Miss Jean Maclurcan left to-day by the
Taiyuan on a long visit to Townsville. A con-
tingent of ‘'The Players” went down to say the
proper nu revoir things. Miss Jean’s mother’s
cookery book has, it may be interjected, passed
into its seventh edition and seventieth thousand.
xx? 0 ™ 1 * lree days’ tour arranged by the
JN.fo. W. Tourist Bureau was enhanced by a young
couple getting engaged whilst scend-shifting, and
lake-gazmg, and mountain-viewing. Nothing like
a matrimonial engagement for making the Govern-
ment tours popular. Popular with woman, of
course. Hitherto, she’s had to go to sea to harpoon
a husband. Now she may net him on land.
In the “ Two Little Michus ” Florence Young
and Margaret Thomas manage to get the effect of
equal stature by the former wearing heel-less
slippers and the latter very high-heeled ones.
One of the prettiest bits of picture-making is the
ln ac k w here the one Michu girl
(Miss Young) hurriedly arranges the younger
Michu (Miss Thomas) to look the counterpart of
her mother’s (the Marchese’s) picture. She pow-
ders the dark hair to give it a silvered greyness,
puts a red rose above one eye, a patch near the
mouth, and arranges a black lace drape mantilla-
wise, and fastens it at the throat with another
rose. Then the painting of the dead Marchese
was faced to the audience near the living replica.
New secretary of the Athenaeum Club is Mr.
Harry Henderson, one of a xvell-known Auckland
family, whose men were notable yachtsmen. He
used to be head of a Hoch der Kaiser line of
steamers in this city, and the sight of the clerks
employed there always gave me a desire to ask,
What do you do for your hair?” They were
young Germans, and they were haired as Absalom,
after his bi-annual polling of course. Pale gold
hair, and weak, spectacled eyes were the totems
in that office. Secretary Harry knows clubs, from
the oyster cocktail down to the black coffee and
liqueur, and clubmen from silk hats to spats.
When a lady becomes a relict it is well for her
if she looks well in black. Mrs. Goodwyn, in her
xveeds for the late Colonel, looks as pathetically
attractive as she did in those she wore as Mrs.
Willie Mitchell in the days of her first widow-
hood. She has the courage to shunt the regula-
tion cap or bonnet, and substitutes a toque and
rear-drooping veil. Mrs. Goodwyn leaves for
England presently.
I* was er ta l ent I° r ornamentation that made
Madame Chenu, buried last week at Rookwoou,
remarkable in early life. She designed novel
traceries, and could elaborate the simplest idea.
Though a pupil of George Cruickshank, her style
was the antithesis of that of the caricaturist. She
was motherof Hippodrome Cole, whose Bohemians
keep Sydney awake.
Latest Australian resident to have titled great-
ness thrust upon him is Mr. C. E. Gordon, of
Lavender Bay, Sydney. He is now a baronet. In
the Beerage and Baronetage the Goidons are
nearly as numerous as the Smiths. The present
Baronet entered the Civil Service of this State in
1853, and retired on a pension ten years ago. His
villa at Lavender Bay is called after the ancestral
humpy, Barlston House, in Kirkcudbright (the
second syllable of this word, I believe, is not pro-
nounced as if it were the thing the cow chews,
and the third one is pronounced the way you
would least expect). The title is a Scotch one,
founded in 1706.
Several English papers, in giving two or three
inches of comment to Mr.' Arthur Adams’ article
m the Nineteenth Centurt, quote the same sen-
tence, to the effect that the ideal English girl is
‘a dull, plaeidly-pretty, regular-featured, digni-
fied piece of ice,” and with it they sandbag the
wnter. But they are not very angry. No nation
could be other than flattered at having its women
called ‘‘dignified,” even though the disqualifica-
tion of dullness goes with it. It is very kind of
Mir. Adams to lay the blame of the English girl’s
dullness at the door of the Englishman. It is
very un-Adam like. Adam the First would have
said, “If I am over dull it is the Woman’s fault.
She is always dull, but that is her own fault.”
Perhaps the dullness of the English woman is due
to nineteen centuries of Pauline doctrine, St.
Paul is even yet as a paving stone on the aspira-
tions of the British matron. In the English
middle classes for centuries the man, the husband,
was exalted. The woman was told to hold her
peace, and cover her hair, and not to teach or
preach. But the women of the aristocracy never
allowed themselves to be snowed under by St.
Paul’s avalanche of advice about effacement and
silence.
But the dullness of the girl is often due to the
fact that she’s not with the right boy. The girl
xvbo would be as dull as a bucket of ashes in Mr.
Johnson’s company might coruscate whilst with
Mr. Smith.
Mrs. Derek Keppel of the houri eyes, who was
here with the Yorks, is not remarkable, a London
correspondent writes me, for the dullness and
placidity with which Mr. Arthur Adams labels
Englishwomen. She can say smart things when
she is kept waiting, or when she is ruffled. Also,
she’s greatly admired by King Edward. Recently
she gave a cabby who muddled her directions hot
coals of talk. Later, when calm, he had occasion
to ask “ Where to now, mum ?” “ King’s Cross,”
replied the lady, haughtily. “ Indeed, mum,
you’ve my sympathy. I’m sorry to ’ear it, mum.”
Miss Rose Musgrove and the set of travelling
trunks that the Royal Comics gave her will stop
awhile in Ceylon with the family of the maternal
Garrick; Mr. Reggie Garrick, a son of the family
who has been in Australia, is an aide-de-campish
youth who didn’t miss many nights in front when
Rose was behind the footlights.
All Lady Nortbcote’s interest these winter
days seems to be centred in the Free Kinder-
gartens. With Aide Kerr-Pearse in attend-
ance, she goes out to the grimy suburbs
and watches the youngsters go through their
training tricks, looks at their pictures—there’s
always one of King Edward, a blaze of scarlet, on
a mighty horse, and with a flag draped above him
—and books and premises. Then she donates.
The lady is a generous donor.
Mayoress Allen Taylor’s ball in aid of the
Thirlmere Home for Women would have made
any sunset take a back seat. The Nations’ sets
were splendidly carried out, and the pity is that
more people were not carried in—on their feet, of
course to swell the poor revenues of a worthy
charity.
Marie Narelle is due at Melbourne this week,
and reaches Sydney on Friday in time for a State
reception at the Town Hall that evening. She
airs her voice for the first time on Saturday
evening. Sydney prepares a warm welcome for
the returned singer.
A Bond-street (English) shop-girl has taken the
beauty prize in the Health and Beauty Exhibition
at the Grafton Gallaries. The winner amongst
the men was a restaurant porter.
When Miss Taliaferro was in Sydney she men-
tioned, evidently as a matter for delightful
novelty, the civility she met with in the big
drapers’ shops. Even though she decided that
“she would not take it to-day, thank you,” and
did not take anything, but gave trouble, she was
just as civilly thanked as if she’d bought out the
counter. Probably the American sales-lady is
often like the one a returned native told me of.
You don t want the ribbon ! Then what did
you come here for ? This isn’t a matinee, and I
don t run round showing ribbons for the good of
my health.”
“King Alphonse and Queen Ena, after attend-
ing Mass, drove to witness the usual bullfight.”
Isn t it enough to make the late Queen Victoria,
who simply exuded convention and domesticity,
get up and walk—walk through the Spanish
Palace every midnight doing the Outraged
Ancestor act ? As for the British Matron she’ll
now give up Ena as lost, and will say that
dressing in tights and smoking cigarettes may be
expected of her any day.
Among outgoing travellers are Mrs. Plomley
and her daughter. The former is a sister of the
Mrs. Norman Shelley who a few months back in
London made the man who had hired her flat pay
up for packing her Paquin clothes with a pile-
driver or a clothes-prop, or something, and hust-
ling them off to a luggage depot.
Little Ella Caspers, of Albury, pronounced by
Rivers Allpress to be the possessor of a phenomenal
contralto voice, will appear on the concert plat-
form in Sydney before going into' long dresses.
Leila Doubleday appears at the Y.M.C.A. Hall on
June 30. Mr. Southwell is managing for her.
Herr Kretschmann has issued 5000 invitations for
a concert in the Town Hall next Monday night.
It is given in honor of his pupil, a violinist,
Linda Sheen, a child who, if looks count, is a
weird genius. She has mysterious big, black eyes
and black ruffled hair that seems to be electrified—
every single hair.
Cannot flower-growers come to an agreement to
cease to feed their vanity (or that of their em-
ployers) by naming new blooms with their own
unlovely names ? At a dahlia and chrysanthemum
show one finds “the J. W. B. Wilkins,” “the
Mrs. William Smith,” and probably “ the Ebene-
zer P. .Torkins, Esquire” as well. Even race-
horses are more gracefully named.
In a current novel “For Which Wife” a pretty
young wife smacks the other man’s face. After-
wards she justifies her act to him: “I don’t
believe there is anyone who at some time or
other in her life doesn’t long to smack some one
or other ; and I think it’s much better to be done
with it—get it out of the system so to speak.
Therefore—to every man one vote, to every
woman one baby, to every dog one bite, and to
each individual one smack.”
Sydney has so few artistic pieces of sculpture or
masonry in its streets and squares—“the stone
that breathes and struggles, the brass that seems
to speak ” —that the proposed Brough Memorial
Fountain will be a welcome civic asset if it be
wrought with skill.
Maud Amber and Winfield Blake, who went
to Manila with magician Thurston, have struck
coin and hearts. Cuttings of their newspaper
interviews are numerous, and loud in the rustle.
Blake says he taught the barmaids at the Aus-
tralia to make a Martini cocktail, but it got to be
called after him—the Blake cocktail. Miss Am-
ber’s principal admiration was “ the lace coats of
Manila.” Camise is the tender-sounding name of
the garment.
That rather twaddlesome London weekly,
M.A.P., makes valiant attempts to show that
beauty is necessarily associated with a title. For
instance, a column casually picked from a recent
number asserts that “Lady Clancarty is a hand-
some woman ” ; “ Lady Oranmore is a winsome
woman with a pretty face, and has two pretty
children; “Lady March is a pretty woman”;
“Lady Haliburton is a tall, good-looking
woman ;” and “Lady Acland-Hood is a pretty
woman. ” About a dozen other titled dames are
paragraphed in the same issue, each of whom is
at the very least “a pretty woman.” But the
line is not drawn at women, for among other
alleged men “Lord Clancarty is very good-look-
ing,” and “ Prince Eitel has always been regarded
as the beauty of his family ! ”
Two enterprising Sydney gentlemen have im-
ported two ju-jitsu instructors from Japan, and
the glorified wrestlers gave an exhibition last
week, which was watched by a number of doctors,
dentists, heads of warehouses, women and children
and hoi pottoi. The wrestlers fought all over a
big square of padded matting, and if only one of
the importers of the pair of panthers had
held his tongue the proceedings would have
been quite thrillful. The names of the two Japs
look like two masses of dense undergrowth done
into letters. One is an aquiline-featured, tall
fellow ; Samurai, said the onlookers; the other
a stocky youth with a concave face, eyes like
black beetles, and a nose like a coffee bean. He
was probably Satsuma or Cloisonne, or just plain
coolie, or perhaps he was Dado. They took the
most awful falls and sickening thuds out of each
other, and, down on all-fours, gripped and closed
and evaded with such speed and dexterity that the
eye failed to follow their movements. Some of
the exercises are recommended for women. But
once ju-jitsu is added to woman’s curriculum
down goes the marriage rate. No man will run
the risk (for just complaining of the beef being
over-roasted) of being picked up like a ham and
hurled over his wife’s shoulder. And of course
the Merely Mary Anns would learn the art and
Missuses would then get ju-jitsu instead of back
talk.
From Brisbane:—
The first of the four subscription dances promoted by
Brisbane’s toniest girlies came off on Tuesday evening,
and in spite of the little breeze that led to the
withdrawal at the last moment of one of our
prettiest belles, it was a pronounced success. The half-
crown per head subscription seems to have sufficed for
ball, supper, and dance music, though how it was
managed is a deep and unexplained mystery still. The
committee, headed by Miss Celia Cooper, proved
the best of hostesses, and partners were not too
scarce. Miss Sybil Jopp, whose wedding with Col.
Harry Chauvel, Chief Staff Officer, takes place on
Saturday next, made her debut, and as she’s
a particularly pretty girl, looked very well indeed in her
simple white gown. Miss Du Cane, Mrs. Braithwaite,.
and a party of Gov. House diners came late, and the
little “Torches” successfully lightened the darkness of
mere landsmen.
The Government House party has promised to grace
the big hop arranged in the Exhibition Hall on Wednesday
evening in aid of the combined hospitals. Seven hundred
tickets are said to have been already sold.
A Maoriland correspondent sends me this
At least one lot of Maoris is determined to be allasame
pakeha. The Ngatiporou tribe, on the East Coast of
Maoriland, has lately connected many of its principal
settlements by telephone, and has erected about a hun-
dred miles of the “waea korero,” the “talking-wire.”
The Pipiwharouroa (Cuckoo), a little Maori newspaper
published at Gisborne, explains the why and wherefore.
The Ngatiporou people frequently had occasion to
“borrow” the telephone at Te Araroa and elsewhere
along the coast, to call up their neighbors, until the mean-
whites in charge grew tired of the inordinate length of
aboriginal conversations, and drew the color line.
In the old days, the tribesmen would have toma-
hawked the telephone people, but they have now assumed
the tall hat and frock coat of pakeha culture. So they
held a big korero, which is much the same as a jabber-
wock, and a tarpaulin muster was made, and the wire:
went up from kainga to kainga. “Ha !” says the Pin--
wharauroa triumphantly, “ tena ! Look at this! We 1
have a far better wire than the Europeans, because our'
wires are all on real posts, sawn by ourselves, whereas:
the pakeha wire is for a long distance strung on trees by
the roadside. Be strong, O Tribe, to seize all the wisdom:
of modern days ; for by this means will you become ai
great nation. Ring- off ! ”
In prophets and prophesying, as in all other things,,
there are degrees of wisdom and unwisdom. A foolish
half-baked kind of Maori prophet, one Ruatapu, woke up
the other day in the forests of the Urewera country, and
girding his blanket round him resolved to go out and say
things. He collected a mob of a hundred idlers, recited
some mantras over them, and sallied forth to the coastal
towns a-prophesying. He opened his campaign by
announcing that Jesus Christ and King Edward would
qe at Gisborne on the 25th of June. He also did a little
business in the faith-healing and corpse-raising line, but
that soon fizzled out, for the corpse wouldn’t rise.
Meanwhile another seer had arisen a woman
named Hikapuhi, of the Arawa tribe of Rotorua.
She doesn’t worry about King Edward, but sticks strictly
to faith-healing and the prophesying of “safe” things.
Her panacea for all physical ills is brandy, taken in doses-
to suit taste ; and her followers are numerous, but drunk:
—chiefly drunk.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKEHHI.
Melbourne ’Varsity doesn’t follow Sydney
in respect for imported tradition. It isn’t even
called the’Varsity. It is known to all itsmem-
bers as “ The Shop.” The terms are—first term,
second term, third term, fourth term —the fourth
being known as “exam term.” Gowns and
trenchers are not insisted on, although there is a
regulation or a statute or something ordering
their use. Students apparel themselves as they
please, and many a man strolls about in a straw
hat and a pipe instead of in a mortar board and
gown. Old Prof. Morris used to be a stickler for
dress; but even his anxiety in this respect was
spasmodic and never got to the length of fining
anyone for breaches of rules. Altogether Mel-
bourne “Shop” is about as free and easy as a
University can be, and its students are all the
better for it. Tradition isn’t like the rabbit or
the sparrow. It can’t be acclimatised with
success in Australia.
YOUR COMPLEXION!
IF you have a complexion that has a muddy or faded
appearance, or is troubled with blackheads, freckles
and wrinkles, or any skin blemishes whatever, you can
easily exchange for a skin without a blemish, a com-
plexion radiant With a transparent freshness, a clear,,
smooth, and perfect skin that is so much to be admired.
This is the kind of complexion that we guarantee if you
will give Valaze a fair trial, no matter how impoverised
your skin is from the effects of bad weather, or from the
wse'of inferior skin-foods that injure the tissues.
Valaze is the best friend you can rely upon.
Valaze has now a reputation throughout Australasia
that unrivalled.
We guarantee an improvement in one month.
We guarantee Valaze not to increase the growth of
superfluous hairs.
We guarantee Valaze to be a genuine imported sldh-
food, made by Dr. Lykuski, the celebrated European Skin
Specialist, from Extract of Herbs grown on the Carpathian
Mountains.
We guarantee you so much satisfaction from one jar
that you would not be without it for anything.
Try a jar and prove these assertions.
Price 3s. 6d. or large jar 6s. (containing three times the
amount.) Postage 6d. Leading chemists, or direct from
Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Dr. Lykuski’s Special Valaze Blackhead and Open Pores
Cure—guaranteed to cure most obstinate cases—2s. 6d.
tin, by post 3s.
Valaze Herbal Soap, lasts six months, 2s. cake.
Enclose 3d. in stamps to cover postage and we will for-
ward you our latest edition of the new “ Guide to
Beauty,” a book that is full of most valuable information
concerning the skin and health, and will prove most use-
ful and instructive to anyone.


Superfluous Hairs EfTectual/y and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliotion has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. ‘After trying
depilatories, electrolysis and every so-called cure she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, lb kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy, posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
Tonic, Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne. *
gtocwi
' <E)ress
Shields
MORE than one Smart and Effective Costume has been
ruined by the use of Poor Dress Preservers. A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair.
FIG VRE
AWell DrejjedL&dy Mvjt
Hfiviu &Good Figure,
1 byW?&riiv§ i
1 Oi\iv /
m
*ar
I
D
I
Wi.
r'Z
©
©
COB
:et
aUE^
ASK
' FOR THEM
B and m
W SEE •
THAT YOU
l GET
kTHEM.i
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 12, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Flemington race meeting drew a fat official
crowd—you might almost say, rolling stock—on
the Wales birthday. Some personages were asked
to a wing of chicken and a chestnut with the local
lt was the first Talbottle tiffin on
the hlemington course, and the pair of angular
Exes, did the initial feast well.
The surprise of that race-rally was the flash on
the Terrace of Malcolm M'Eacharn. The bloated
capitalist was seen for a little while and then no
more. Perhaps a bomb-bouquet laid him low
among the dead birds. Certainly the M'Eacharn
grows marvellously like his Jap brethren. The
visage always shining with respectability and
soap, is now brown from wind and weather, and
gleams like mahogany. Likewise, his expression
takes on the incrutable Buddha-look that flourishes
in Monkey-land.
The outbreak of cornflower-blue at the Flem-
ington rally was the one interesting feature of a
show much given over to over-fed politicians.
Ihe Tallbottle Grace borrowed much of her
vivacity from the bright, glowing blue that
warmed up her grey outfit and formed her head-
adornment, Miss Byron Moore supplied more of
the vyarm blue tones—in fact, she was arrayed
only in cornflower from top rig to toe. And the
day wasn’t nippy enough to color the noses so as
to reduce the blues to a farce.
The curtain was hoisted up on the Federal Par-
bament show on Thursday before a jammed house.
Ihe G.-G. Northcote starred in a rooster-trimmed
hat that looked three sizes too large. The most
medalled officers in command on sea and shore
provided a fierce splash of color under the amber
chandeliers. The whole assemblage assumed the
perpendicular for the delivery of the Federal plan
of campaign. The said plan took a lot of reading.
noticed Premier Seddon growing restless.
Ills polite attention when he first bounced to his
feet wilted. He stroked his beard reflectively,
and then with thumbs well sunk in his vest
pockets turned a whiskered chin upwards, and set
out some schemes, as it were, on the ceiling.
I lie Federal Houses of Babel have no hospi-
tality. After the opening, a disappointed batch
of femininity wandered aimlessly around, and
finally made away to town for a scone-nibble.
Ihe I allbottle Dame alone was provided with a
homoeopathic dose of tea by the President. Even
the aide was left out of this extravagant hosting,
and he wandered into space sadly till recalled to
convey the Ex.’s coat and gracious smile to the
carriage in waiting. The dressing, considering
the brevity of the show and the dullness of it,
was quite giddy and joyful. The Grey Dame her-
self was clad in the grey and bright blue that
scored points at the Birthday meeting. Mrs.
Dick Casey dashed out (Mrs. D.C. always dashes)
in a pale mauve confection suggestive of the faint
violet dreams that creep into the sky after a
sp endid sunset. A great purple feather curled
boldly right round her hat-brim and took a leap
in the dark over the rear. Mrs. George Chirnside
was got up something after the style of a long
pastel panel, in faint reminiscent tones. Mrs.
Dunbar-Hooper essayed a cinnamon garb with
success. Mrs. I. Isaacs mounted her picturesque
height in expensive furs. Mrs. 0. Wallace had
an olive-green foil for her radiant pallor.
Little Doc. Maloney introduced an anarchist
air into the drabness of Thursday’s Federal func-
tion by sporting a bloodthirsty cravat with
flapping ends that looked villainous. Under his
‘P 111 he carried a large revolutionary felt hat.
Only by his excessive air of politeness did he
assuage the fears of the timid. The one fresh
Bond-street effect supplied to the scene was the
braid-bound tailorings of Willie motor Kelly ■
Diey are exquisite things, and Willie’s alleged’
Oxford neck-tilt is supposed to be enhanced by
the poetic collar-cut.
, sphere was a commotion in a “ highly-respcct-
able Melbourne family recently. The daughter
of the house came home from college one day, and
casually remarked that she was being taught
Socialism. 5 Ihere was an immediate eruption.
Mama, who is a prominent member of the Women’s
League, immediately had visions about broken mar-
riage tiesand things like that. Pa reeled off a politi-
cal tirade, mostly made up of “the curse of the com-
munity ” and “driving capital out of the coun-
try _ At its conclusion the weeping damsel was
consigned to a dungeon—l mean a bedroom. Next
morning she was not allowed to go to school, but
the mother, brimming over with indignation,
went to interview the schoolmistress with a hat-
pin. Then matters were straightened out. The
girl was merely being taught the rules of etiquette,
and how to conduct herself in society, and the
schoolmistress fainted in the ink-well at the very
mention of “ Sosh,”
A tall, handsome, and most interesting young
■couple are likely to settle their differences and
matrimonial worries in Court. A decree nisi is
desired, says the most chatty (i.e., catty) she-club
hereabouts ; and it ought to know.
A Hebrew Johnnie, who failed at financing in
this quarter, went and started pig-farming as a
cynical joke. It paid—still pays. Another of
him has gone away up North in Westralia and:
started growing the same forbidden flesh. Report:
says that this venture is likewise a success. No. 2
farmer formerly wielded a camera here, and failed
miserably at that game. Why does the Hebrew
succeed, then, at pig-breeding ?
I o hark back to photographers. A plaintive
little she-person writes to say she has been getting
snap-shotted, and it’s not a nice business. In fact,
she describes it as beastly, and says that every
time she vvas glued to the spot and head propped
into position an unpleasant powder was shaken
over her head and shoulders, and this tickled,
and she sneezed, and this broke up the picture.
And after that she was stuck to the spot again,
like a dead beetle, and after the usual steadying
preliminaries, requested to moisten her lips, and
having thus tasted the stale boot-powder that had
been puffed over her, and acquired the pale-green
grimace peculiar to the sea-sick, she was snapped,
the comera-man innocently remaiking, “If I’ve
failed in anything, it’s expression.” Expression !
The pale-green grimace called an expression and
snapped impromptu !
The little toy-pennant that is brandished by an
advance guard of the G.-G. whenever the mighty
Atom gets awheel, had an airing onThursday and
Friday—what time his Ex. was giving this city a
treat prior to going back to Sydney. The man
in the street scratches his head thoughtfully when-
ever the big cavalry officer bearing the baby flag
prances along. He wonders if there’s a pin-
cushion fair on, or a mimic war-attack, or a toy
circus. Then he finds out and grins humorously.
Miss Purves—the pert daughter of the bluffing
cross-examiner—is stirring things up in Banana-
land. She has been instrumental in promoting all
kinds of up-to-date parlor games, and helped Mrs.
Metcalfe, the Brisbane squatteress, on to daring
frolics of the Toorakety brand. Just now the
tropical State is drawing a deep breath of amaze-
ment over the frolics in question.
A testy old maestro put the song-bird craze
bluntly, the other day, when he described a pupil
aspiring to the platform (the same old platform)
as “ another of those fools.” And his own pupil,
too !
Ex-Judge Casey circulates a log-book of his gad
now and then. The latest entry is a jaunt to
Laocoon, the little isle of great age. “Read your
Virgil on the subject,” commends the ex-Solomon
with learned unconcern, as if he were merely sug-
gesting you should glance at the time-table.
Almost with flippant cynicism the gadder of the
Bench goes on to say :—“I have sampled Pales-
tine, Syria, Turkey, Greece, and expect (if Provi-
dence has no other scheme) to reach Naples to-
morrow, and see the result of the eruption. I’m
having a pleasgnt outing.”
From Hongkong Miss Maud Amber, the
beauteous Juno, sends along snapshots with a
most Hongkongy background for her lovely
curves. Like all the Yank and Cold Country
footlighters, the ample , beauty looks back long-
ingly.oll this land ; and yet there was the Travesty
Co. disaster to mar her memories of Australia.
A diversion was created in a Melbourne ball-
room, the other night, by the sudden appearance
of an unbidden guest. The ballroom is attached
to the home of a financial nabob in a moderately
“ swell ” Southern suburb, and the giddy whirl
was at its height, and bright the lights shone o’er
fair women and brave men, when something blew
in. It looked like a man, but might have been a
specimen bundle of old stock from a marine store.
The invader lurched across the room, did a sort of
barnyard dance with variations, rebounded off a
stout politician, and shot into a set, quite destroy-
ing its symmetry and mangling two trains in the
process. There was no longer any doubt; it
really was a man, and it was really very drunk. The
stranger’s clothes were the worst of their kind,
and suggested recent association with gutters;
the stranger’s hair was uncombed, and the grog
blossoms grew on his face in great profusion.
I his sat up in the centre of the amazed
dancers, and shrilly demanded its missus. It
said it wouldn’t go away without its missus,
and defied anybody to eject it unless its
missus was ejected in company. Nobody had
seen its missus, nobody knew her, and nobody
dared approach the stranger to fire him out, be-
cause he did not look a safe object to handle.
Eventually, however, after it had held the
ball up for 20 minutes, the gardener and another
man-servant removed it by throwing a horse rug
over it and towing it out. Later, the host learned
that the bibulous intruder was the husband of his
cook, who had a judicial separation, but whom
the villain still pursued jn this way, so that in
one year her lines had been cast in many
“places.”
A paterfamilias in this city means to get his
brood off quick and lively. In speechifying at a
daughter s knot-tying, the other day, he announced
that lie was ready to let all his property go to the
dear girls. “ The eldest leaves me to-day, ” said
the patriotic dad, “and she takes her share—and
it s not a shabby share. There are three others,”
he went on cheerily, “and they’ll get fairly
treated. They’ll not complain of dad’s mean-
ness.” The trio blushed deeply, and every
eligible present took on an appropriate expression
of reflection.
Mummer Gerrard is packing up his wardrobe
'(it is said to contain a suit for every mood in the
human calendar) for flight to the Cold Country.
An engagement at Her Majesty’s Theatre, Lon-
don, is alleged to be calling him abruptly from
the contemplation of bucking and browsing lcine
in the squatting district where he has been nursing
his grievances and sprains. No mummer ever
arrived here with more promise or left after less
performance.
Miss Joy M ‘Craeken is one of the season’s
fledglings. Joy is a name to live up to. It
pre-supposes a sunny face, laughing eyes, and a
rose-bud of a mirthful mouth. Joy is a dangerous
name to give a child. The brewery M‘Crackens
might have done a grave wrong to their chick.
As it is, the label is not a misnomer.
Mrs. S. T. Staughton is determined not to let
the social ball stop a-rolling. The brisk dame
gathered her friends together for an afternoon
corroboree, and turned on some popular strum
and song right off the shell as it were—the tinned
stuff being’ out of the bill just now. The autumn
chiffons were likewise just off the shell. Mrs.
Seton Williams, one of the Staughton clan, struck
a high and beautiful note in the dress gamut by
a blue corduroy velvet—the hue of the sapphire.
A top-piece borrowed the same gem-color. Two
visitors to the State added to the gaiety of
clothes. A Mrs. Bernard (from India) starred in
a powder-pink rig, and Mrs. A. M‘Donald, from
Bananaland, accomplished much in a Nile-green
radium get-up.
There’s a great amount of muff about.
Ihe luxurious She now crooks her gamp
snugly on her arm and encases her mani-
cured digits in a huge muff of bear or
fox or sable. The trouble is that the Polar
effect has a habit of straying into neighboring
hands, and has either to be roped to the neck or
chained to the person. These kind of precautions
take from the aesthetic value. It is like the care-
ful dame who sews on her diamond gewgaws
with white cotton, or strings all the gems that
decorate her collar and vicinity with white thread.
Safety should be secured in some other fashion.'
White cotton looping expensive decorations ‘to-
gether is an eyesore.
Mr. and Mrs. Senior—a pair of Cold Country
tourists—have decamped after a gay time in the
Tooraket.y quarter. The Seniors affected the
society mostly of the State seniors—in the'per-
sons of Mr. Reggie Bright and the Nicholas Fitz-
geralds. Mrs. Senior had an extensive wardrobe,
and aired a series of effective'dresses for the bene-
fit of the local Cream. The spouse looked like a
prosperous coachman, which is popularly believed
to be the way the Englishman of birth disguises
his superior family claims.
Mrs. Groom is the starring inter-State visitor
of Federal circles. The Bananalander has a trick
of wearing her toque, and a coy waist, and alto-
gether gets herself up fetchingly.
George Turner is looking very much like a sexa-
genarian bowler these days, and not at all like a
jaded politician. He waxes fat and grey, and his
specs shine with a solemn respectability.
Military hops are about to start. The Austra-
lian Gari’ison Artillery has cards out for one on
6th July. Several young misses are to star in a
special White Lancers. By their bouquets ye
shall know them.
Mrs. Alec Murphy—perhaps the best-figured
dame in this dressy State —asked a large flock of
her friends to a Bridge Tea the other day, and
donated trophies to the fastest scorer. The
daughters of Surgeon Fitzgerald did likewise.
And the society face grows shrewish in the card-
race.
Miss Beatrice Miranda was farewelled by a
great host of people last Friday. The fetching
soprano tries her luck in Europe, where sister
Lalla offers a luring example of Success.
The Miles Stavordale quintette, I am informed,
did not play at Mrs. Winter Irving’s reception the
other day.
The separation scheme is becoming a craze in
this Bent capital. Several smart couples are
going their divers ways and merely maintaining a
public semblance of civility for the sake of the
che-ild. There is always just one pathetic chick
over whom the capricious marm may shed a tear
and the ousted he-parent be permitted to utter his
all too rare blessing. It isn’t safe to ask after an
absent spouse. The injured dame will either
collapse into hysterics, saying “Now you have
learnt the tragedy of my life ” or she’ll weep in
stony silence and leave you regarding the furniture
helplessly. Only now and then the injured wife
tightens her mouth determinedly as much as to
say—“ Never will you drag from me the story of
that monster’s ili-treatment.” And you talk
aimlessly about the weather, or the fiscal fight, or
the new straight fronts. After all the female who
looks things is more trying than she who says them.
Miss Rose Musgrove is flashing about this
metropolis in flushed excitement. Her trip to
England is the glory of her life. “Don’t you
think I’ll do all right?” pouts Rose with a “La
Poupee” expression of vacant query that sets her
pals giggling and guessing she’ll do all right
wherever she goes. There’s such a lot of the
baby-pout and the wicked wink mixed up in
Rose’s countenance. One follows t’other in
comic turns, and suggests a whole mine of worldly
wisdom under the “diddums” grimace.
Commissioner Donne still keeps Maoriland in-
terests alive in this Bent quarter. His exhibition
work will keep him and his type-machines going
for the week, when he takes his kit and his tra-
velling expression of good cheer to Sydney.
All the fashionable forces turned out for the
official opening of the Glaciarium by the local
Worship on Saturday afternoon. The mayoral
benediction over, the crack professor of the
skating States whirled on to the ice and fluttered
rapidly about, first on the edge of one skate, then
on the edge of t’other, like a swallow on the
wing. A skylark soaring heavenwards on
a golden summer day isn’t more inspiring
than a skilled skater whirring in graceful
curves and dizzy angles over the ice.
Once the ice hadn’t been broken by a mixed pair
of fancy pirouetters, the immense frozen area
became thickly peopled. A jolly brass band
nerved the performers and led the amateur on to
many chilly falls, to the delight of two thousand
pairs of eyes—granted all the spectators had two
apiece. Railway Commissioner Tait was one of
the first to set out for a frozen waltz. As a
Canadian, he should have cut a better figure.
His excuse was that he hadn’t been a-gliding and
a-sliding for fourteen years. Miss Lesly Madden,
Miss Ethel Guthrie, and Miss L. Robertson were
a trio of creamy flutterers who figured timidly but
without a fall among the skaters. It’s a cheery
and bracing exercise.
Leila Doubleday, the Victorian violinist and
pianist, is said to be going Adelaidewards soon, to
try her luck with Holy City audiences. Dr.
Harold Davies, whose Bach Society draws bigger
crowds than any other noise making club in the
Tram-horse State, is lending a fatherly eye to
Leila’s Adelaide venture, but it is doubtful if said
venture has much chance of being worth while.
Adelaide has too many small musical marvels of
its own to farewell annually, to have much time
for an extraneous product. This farewelling
business is growing to be quite an Australian in-
dustry.
Yours Affectionately, TRYPHENA.
“ Lerli ” from London :
The Liberals cannot last. Next election the Tories,
with a Democratic policy framed as of yore “ to dish the
Whigs,” and Protection as their main cry, will return to
power. The Reidite-Foreign-Trade Conservative crowd
in Australia is really the English Liberal party with its
fetish of Freetrade. In England the Tories, who have
adopted Protection and passed an Aliens Act (which the
Liberals are now rendering ineffective), wouldn’t have
George Reid or Bruce Smith or Iceberg Irvine for a gift.
These gentlemen would be sent along to the Liberal
party.
“H.S.R.”: Came across two cases in
English papers which go to prove how well the
employer and employed always get along without
the beastly agitator or Labor man. One was
where a landlord gave notice of eviction to 800
tenants because his Conservative friend was beaten
at the elections, and another where a swell sacked
his three gardeners for the same reason.
What a glorious boon to Australian ladies to
know that if their skin is disfigured by wrinkles, pimples,
blotches, freckles, sunburn, blackheads, roughness,
chapping, flabbiness, muddiness, or any other blemishes,
Patti’s Beauty Cream will rapidly and permanently
banish them all without the slightest injury to the most
delicate skin 1 It is manufactured by Dr. Martin Artze,
the world-famed Parisian Skin Specialist, from the purest
and most costly ingredients, and is warranted to induce
no hair to grow or produce any eruption on the skin, and
to make the complexion soft, clear, smooth and trans-
parent as that of a healthy infant. It is as much superior
to imitation skin foods as is the beauty of Madame Patti to
that of a small-pox victim. There are thousands of
living proofs of these truths in Australia and New
Zealand to-day, and the piles of testimonials, which grow
larger daily, afford incontestable evidence that Patti’s
Beauty Cream stands supreme as a complexion specific.
Every month since its introduction to Australia, three
years ago, its sales have doubled, and not a single
purchaser has made the slightest complaint. Patti’s
Beauty Cream alone does all this because it is a Perfect
Skin Food. Of all Chemists and Stores, price 3s. 6d. and
6s. per pot.*
If Australia really believes that, after all,
the little Australian is the best immigrant, it
doesn’t trouble much to translate its belief into
action. Last year, for every 1000 little Australians
that were born in N.S. Wales without the “stain
of illegitimacy ” only 72 died ; but of every 1000
born with the “stain” 183 died. If the death-
rate had been the same among the one lot as
among the other, it would have been equal to a
shipment of 322 immigrants—and good, lusty im-
migrants most of them.
A champion Stinking Fisherman, allegedly
writing from Sydney, tells : the Pketokia News
(S’ Africa) these among other things
Sydney is a fearful city after dark. All dark arid
gloomy and full of secret sin. It literally reeks with
crime. The Trades Hall will not let anyone work, and
the Holy Joe will not let anyone be g’ood. It is a sin to
smile, and a crime to laugh. There is no liberty and
plenty of licence. And there is the class hatred, the
hatred of the clerical class, or the “ collar and cuff
brigade,” as they call us. The Trades Unionist says that
no one must have work unless he belongs to the Union,
and yet they will not admit one more member to their
ranks. They have made that law. They have stagnated
trade, and say, *• Down with the capitalist; Australia for
the Australians.” That is Trades Hall. One must live
here to comprehend the vastness of their insolence. They
eat, drink, sleep, dream, live and rear their families on
politics (their sort), and are going to rule the whole show
soon.
“ It;in” : lie the cataleptic Clias. Clemens,
lately dying twice a week in S.A. At Singleton
(N.S.W.), a few years ago, the coroner received a
message one morning that a man had been found
dead in his bed in an outlying part of the district.
So the official started off to inquest him, taking
the informant, the doctor, and the coffin with him
to save time. On the road they met a man driving
a milk cart towards the town, and the informant
nearly fainted. He gasped, “That’s the corpse !”
A little while later the cataleptic was found one
night standing outside his house with glassy eyes,
staring at the moon. He was dead again. While
he remained in the district he died frequently—
almost daily. The coffin which was built for him
on the occasion of his first death was afterwards
used, to hold the remains of Joe Governor, the
aboriginal outlaw.
Some “ bobby ” reminiscences :
Till some few years ago every village in Tasmania had
its own police force, under municipal control. Some-
times the force comprised an inspector and one con-
stable ; perhaps there was a superintendent and no men.
It was a rare sight to see a body of Tasmanian police ; it
was like a comic opera, the clothes and personalities were
so varied. Old Edward Braddon (since dead), who had
ruled multitudes of niggers in India, thought he’d like to
see, and have charge of, a real Tasmanian police force ;
and so he induced Parliament to amalgamate all the
“forces.” This was a bitter pill to Ebenezer Smith and
Job Brown, municipal magnates, who had had armies, so
to speak, at their beck and call. But, in choosing the
boss of the new force, Braddon made a blot on his
career. He took for its head the Superintendent of the
Benevolent Asylum at Hobart, who had been in charge
of a crowd of superannuated lags and a few old soldiers,
and was himself a Majaw in the local Defence Force. A
Koj'al Commission interfered, and recommended that a
man with police training should be made Commissioner
of Police, and the Majaw from the Benevolent Asylum
was made chairman of the Civil Service Board instead.
He and two others then recommended that W. H. Hunt,
Under-Sheriff at. Eaunceston, should be made Commis-
sioner. Hunt said he “ didn’t want to end his days as a
policeman,” but he accepted the billet for the sake of
increased pay and a better pension, and then lay down
and died before there was time for him to go down to
Hobart and put on his helmet. Then the Majaw had to
appoint another, man, and this time he and his mates
named a clerk in a Government department as a man
whom the helmet would about fit. The new Lord High
Commissioner of Police was a grandson of one John Lord,
who for years was a member of the Tasmanian House of
Landlords, and, if that was his chief qualification, the
appointment was well up to the level of old Tassv
tradition.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
On the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/., 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.
pi*:
GO TO ttf.t.t.i
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€Q, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
ħ
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason'
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
J. A. Hogue, of N.S.W. Government,
proposes to introduce for the cure of loafers the
Zwangsarbeitshaus system of Austria, so he says.
The system is not half as bad as Jim’s pronuncia-
tion of it.
“H. ” : Yic. Railway Commissioner Tait
still continues his fad of shortening the names of
railway stations. Last week, the men of Cowie’s
Creek arose as one ox to protest against their fair
metropolis being called Cow in the time-tables.
Reid, according to accounts, prefers
Dugald Thomson to Joe Cook as deputy. Having
bought Joe with a billet, he probably fears some
other buyer may come along and buy Joe with
another Lillet. And a bought Cook is a bitter
enemy to his “sold ” boss.
Sydney Telegraph now devotes a whole
enthusiastic column every second or third day to
expressing its approval of the proposal that the
Victorian Labor men should contest every seat
against the Democratic Protectionists. When the
enemy approves so cordially it ought to be a clear
enough danger signal.
‘ ‘ The Brit ish troops have cleared the
caves in the hillsides of the rebels seeking cover,
and have killed 21 of them. No casualties were
sustained on the British side.” — From, an eloquent
daily-paper cablegram descriptive of the “ desperate
attacks ” made by the “ native rebels ” in Natal
upon constituted authority.
The mixed state of parties in Tasmanian
House of Ass. : Direct Government supporters
(who say they believe in progress, but think that
“the time is not yet ripe”), 12; old Tories, whosus-
pect Premier Evans of being a wild revolutionist,
5; Laborists, 7; Democrats, led by Herbert
Nicholls and M'Call, 8; uncertain, 2; Speaker,
1; total, 35.
Queenslanders are asking what Agent-
General Tozer is doing these times for his salary.
Since ex-Premier Morgan spoke severely to him,
he has given up denouncing Australia, and keeps
the corpse of a dead silence. But Queensland
wants something more than a mummy, especially
when the other States are doing some serviceable
ad vertising to attract settlers.
THE LOAFER.
jar. Reid then confided to the audience that he be-
lieved he was the laziest man on earth. If he did
work hard it was only because he could enjoy a lazy time
afterwards.
“ Yes,” says The Bulletin, “ that’s George all
over —sweat at the hustings and loaf in office.”
S.A. Assembly will probably gain another
Liberal by the death of Conservative W. H.
Duncan. Dr. Brauer, a young man with brains,
who, though then practically unknown, nearly
squeezed in at the last general election (he got
3058 votes against Duncan’s 3390), looks like a 10
to 1 on chance against the nonentities who are
opposing him. Brauer, among other things, wants
Australia to issue its own paper money.
On June 6 the S.M. Herald broke out
with another tentative suggestion about importing
somebody; and hinted that it might be desirable
to import a man or men as Commissioners to run
the N.S.W. Lands Department. Also it did a
fresh howl for an imported Railway Commissioner.
But the sad old paper misses the real point at issue.
What is most wanted is to import a new pro-
prietor for the S.M. Herald. The one truly
awful example of Australian incapacity that this
paper knows is the S.M. Herald.
Victoria’s anti-Socialist farmers are chew-
ing Bent’s ear for wire-netting to put around
their holdings to stop the ravages of bunny. And
Bent, anti-Sociahst, receives the ear-biters’ re-
quests rather kindly, instead of referring them to
good old Private Enterprise. Private Enterprise
seems to be a nice thing to talk about, but a
mighty poor support in time of trouble.
The long-delayed story of the brutalities
inflicted by Japanese soldiers in Korea on a party
of Australian tourists (Mr. A. R. Weigall, son of
the head-master of Sydney Grammar School, Mrs.
Weigall, and Mr. W. W. Taylor) seems to have
been carefully kept back lest the tale might shed a
gloom over the visit of the Monkey squadron to
Australia. At latest advices the mild and per-
fectly harmless British Government was “ne-
gotiating ” on the subject.
A recent issue of Sydney Telegraph
came out with a leading article purporting to
show the miserable increase in the number of
N.S.W. factory hands under the Deakin tariff,
compared to the enormous growth during the
glorious era of Reid’s Freetrade system. The
article evidenced great research among dry statis-
tics, the deductions were shrewd, and the final
summing up very large and supercilious. In fact,
the only thing that escaped the careful writer was
the fact that N.S.W. never had Freetrade.
One M.L.A., at all events (Dr. Arthur),
has announced that there will be a great effort
made next session of N.S.W. Parliament to forfeit
all the improvement leases which were acquired
by the payment of large fees to the land-agent
crowd. The community has a right to those leases,
for it was the community’s land which was jobbed
away ; and nothing would lay the axe more
definitely to the root of land-agency than the
knowledge that the title which is got by jobbery
is liable to prove worth less than the paper it is
written on.
Some extracts from a Victorian worker’s
letter written in Dunedin (M.L.). The writer
was squeezed out of Bent’s State by too much
anti-Socialism :
They talk of Socialism in Victoria ! Why, the Conser-
vatives here would be Radicals there. The Tories in Vic.
would drop dead if they heard a political discussion in
full blast here. Seddon’s latest proposal is to start State
retail butcheries and fish shops in the main centres. . . .
The person who would advocate the abolition of the Arbi-
tration Courts would be regarded as a lunatic. The old
cry about the minimum award being also the maximum
has proved to be sheer nonsense even in small factories.
Sydney Shop Employees’ Union intends
to make another effort to secure a fixed Saturday
afternoon holiday. They will be much helped in
the campaign by the Brisbane experience. There
the Saturday half-holiday was made compulsory
in the face of bitter opposition. Now—to quote
the testimony of Mr. Frank M‘Donald, M.P.,
himself a shopkeeper—none of the shops would
care to go back to the old system. The late
market night in Brisbane is Friday, and as wages
are paid on Friday, or earlier, the need for a late
Saturday night is altogether removed.
When Wentworth Shields, whose death is
reported from England, surveyed the route of the
Sydney-Parramatta railway line in 1849, it was
expected that wood would be the chief material
used as rails. Calculations made by engineers at
the time went to show that there was not enough
iron in the world to rail even a couple of the coun-
tries of Europe. The great question of the day
in Australia was the best kind of timber to select
for the purpose, and officials made experiments
with all descriptions of hard wood. Governor
Denison laid down a timber baby-railway in
Government House grounds.
Since the advent, some four years ago, of
farmers to Willaura, the centre of S.W. Vic.’s
wheat-growing area, agricultural land has jumped
from 555. an acre to 110 s., while township allot-
ments have risen from G3s. to £lOO an acre. This
is all squatter-owned land, and it is high time
Bent saw that the goose laying the golden egg got
more of the egg.
“Stony”: A crop of White Australian
opinions sprang up in an unexpected quarter in
Melbourne —m a Greek fish-saloon. Two
Jap naval people, belonging to the
bunch which recently struck Mel-
bourne, marched into the shop of
Demetrius, one night, and made for
a table. But the large, black-haired,
pallid, oyster Greek would have none
of it. He planted his body across
their honorable passage up the gang-
way and roared at them, rudely and
monotonously, and with a deep
frown, “No oyst’! No oyst’! No
oyst’! ” and shoo’d them sternly
back to the door again, whither they
went like lambs.
After the Melbourne unemployed had
made a demonstration at a cathedral Sunday ser-
vice, Premier Seddon declared that there were no
unemployed in Maoriland. Then the Argus, in
a leading article, gravely stated that Maoriland
was an inaccessible group of islands in the lonely
sea, and that the reason why there were no unem-
ployed there was because it was difficult for them
to get there. Apart from the silliness of this
yarn—seeing that inaccessible Maoriland gained
64,000 people by excess of arrivals over departures
between 1892 and 1904, while Australia lost 4000,
it is very silly—the remark is a curious commen-
tary on the Argus frame of mind. That paper’s
first idea is to import something—even unem-
ployed.
Thus N.S.W. Premier Joey Carruthers in
a commendable vein:—
It has been my object to reduce the loan holdings in
England, and to increase them in New South Wales, so as
to ensure more interest being kept in the State.
That is a noble ambition for a Protectionist, but
it sits rather awkwardly on Joe, the alleged Free-
trader. The whole-hog Protectionist wants to
keep the debt, the interest, the manufactures, the
profits, and the wages all in the State. He wants
to supply abundance of work in order to keep the
people in the State. He wants to fill all the
important public offices with local instead of
imported men and keep the billets in the State.
Now that Joseph has commenced, why doesn’t he
go the whole logical hog instead of only the tail
of the hog ?
DR. ROSS EX-M.P. AS DIOGENES.
A Phil May draving which recalls th e N.S.W.
Lands scandals of 20 years ago.
The anti-Sosh party gets a cruel jolt from
Q. Sugar-Expert Maxwell. That gentleman in
his report on the State-managed sugar-mills, says
that last year those mills paid their employees
per week per man more than the Private Enter-
prise mills, and in addition a bonus of 10 per cent.
As a result, the men are sticking to the industry.
Further, the State management intends to create
a reserve fund to finance the growers through bad
seasons. Previous to the State taking over the
said mills Private Enterprise had run them into a
condition of bankruptcy, and the growers were
faced with ruin. Reid might get Jocook to rise
just here and make some remarks about the in-
variable failure of State management.
Writes a man from London :
With the exception of its one or two chiefs and deputy
chiefs, who have made things very nice for themselves,
the new Commonwealth offices in London are apparently
to he manned entirely by English persons who have never
seen Australia, and are therefore deemed specially com-
petent to look after its affairs. First thing little Captain
Collins did when he got to the Smoke was to sort out per-
sons employed in the various State agencies, and select as
many Englishmen as possible to fill the various billets in
his gift. It has been a constant subject of complaint that
the people supposed to help Australia along in England
are woefully ignorant of its affairs, and a little discreet
conversation with any of them is sufficient to bring out
the fact that they are tinged with an unwholesome con-
tempt for all things that are not English—a feeling
which isn’t likely to do this c< ntinent much good.
Digby Denham, the Bananalaud Minister
for Railways, who occasionally shrieks “ secesh ”
in a loud, bitter voice, has his bright intervals.
This is what he said, the other day, to a crowd
that was hungering for a railway
Queensland railways have cost over £50,000,000. The
loss on them exceeds £6,000,000. The people who have
benefited most by these lines should pay something extra.
It is necessary to put the State’s finances on a sound foot-
ing. The State has borrowed no money for four years,
but next year the new railways in course of construc-
tion will be a serious drain on the loan funds in
hand. If the Government proposes any more
lines it will be only right to provide for a sinking fund.
Owners of land alongside the non-paying lines have paid
nothing in the way of betterment, yet the whole State
has to suffer the loss.
The trouble is that up to the present betterment
proposals in Bananaland are very much like
Digby’s “secesh” vaporings; nothing comes of
them.
“ Calier ” writes :
The little unpleasantness about N.S.W. improvement
leases carries me back to the rime when the Palmer crowd
were administering the Land Act of 1868 in Queensland.
That measure granted the run-holder the fee-simple of
his property on condition that improvements were made
on the land pre-empted by him —one acre for every ss.
worth of improvements effected. Dropped across a camp
of Norwegians ringbarking a 640-acre “ pre-emptive ” on
a certain station, and the ganger told me that they were
making fair wages at lOd. per acre. Some time after a
very important Minister, who was part owner of the
station, put in a claim for the fee-simple of 2560 acres on
the ground that £640 had been expended on ringbarking
pre-emptive purchase XIV., or some such number. And
he got it—though the £640 he said he expended and the
lOd. an acre for 640 acres which I heard the Norwegians
were getting seemed rather wide apart.
“ S.” : My compartment was rushed by a
pack of she-politicians returning from the Women’s
National League corroboree in Melbourne Town
Hall the other night. They talked politics like a
chorus, and enthused gushingly over “Our Chief.”
I learned presently that ‘ ‘ Our Chief ” was one
George Reid, and it was asserted with absolute
confidence that “Our Chief” was going to put
down Socialism. “ Fancy,” said one dame, “ the
Socialists want to divide up everything, families
and all, and those who haven’t got any children
will be able to take some from those who have.”
Another matron asserted that Our Chief was
going to take the duties off, and make everything
cheap, and added, comfortably, “I’m waiting till
then to buy my blankets.” Oh, and these she-
politicians were so painfully plain ! It seems to
me that the strange woman who gave her energies
to prayer meetings, teetotalism, soup kitchens,
and good works is now devoting herself to politics
and George Reid, and to the homely, conservative
female Georgie threatens to become what the
latest mother’s-pretty-boy actor is to the ordinary
girl.
The inept Melbourne Board of Works,
which a fortnight ago passed resolutions saying
that it didn’t know what was wrong with itself,
but that it would be much obliged if somebody
would come and tell it just how much of an ass it
had been, has just interviewed Premier Bent to
ask him to appoint an expert to examine its
accounts —the accounts it can’t understand itself—
and suggest the economies that it is its business
to find out itself, only it is incapable of doing its
own business. Bent bluffly told the puzzled Board
of Worthlessness that he saw no use even in this
puny suggestion, and that its case was hopeless.
Then the Board went out and brayed bitterly.
When Sydney Telegraph is not ultra-
capitalistic it easily outclasses Watson as a
Socialist. State trams are, of course, a horrible
interference with private enterprise, but the
’Graph now urges that they should be run on
lines of pure philanthropy, and without any
attempt to make profit out of them :
We do not want to make any money out of the trams.
They are not run by the Government for dividends, but
to give accommodation to the people, and as long as this
can be provided without loss the work should go on.
That is the spirit in which the requests for new lines
ought to be considered.
The ardent Socialist who wants to keep ahead of
the ’Graph must now advocate free rides on
trains and trams. The day will probably come
when the ’Graph will counter that by suggesting
free meals during the journey. Then capitalism
will curse its old friend.
Dear Bulletin, — I wonder you have the
effrontery to go on pushing the barrow of Pro-
tection the way you do. lam a Victorian Free-
trader, and last week I visited Sydney for the
first time, and was able to see for myself what
glorious development of the great natural indus-
tries of the country was made under Reid’s benefi-
cent Freetrade rule. Instead of artificially coddled
manufactures, such as we have in Melbourne. I
found a couple of fine natural industries in full
swing—industries that are unknown in Melbourne.
One is the snake-selling industry. Ido not know
a single shop in Melbourne where you can buy a
live snake, but I found half-a-dozen in the main
streets of Sydney, and there are probably a dozen
more that I did not see. The second fine
natural industry I found in the outer suburbs
around the harbor—the boiling water industry.
Melbourne has nothing like this. While it has
been fooling over Protective tariffs to encourage
the making of hats and clothing and machinery
and other tomfoolery, Reid has built up two fine
sturdy primary industries, and, had he been
allowed to continue in office instead of this cursed
Federation coming along, the whole population of
Sydney would no doubt have been engaged in
selling snakes and hot water by this time. I must
state in fairness that I ascertained, on enquiry,
that both the snakes and the water are of Aus-
tralian origin, but I have faith in Reid, and in all
probability, had he been given the opportunity by
an ungrateful democracy, he would have by this
time built up a splendid shipping trade by
importing snakes from America and India, and
hot water from some of the South American
Republics, where, it is understood, there is always
a good supply. Trusting that these few facts
may bring you to see the error of your ways, I am,
Anti-Socialist.
HE ASKS FOR PROTECTION AND SHE
GIVES HIM A STONE.
“ Now, young ’un, you must get your living
exporting wool—and gold!”
Thomas Bent hadn’t the wisdom of Alfred
the Affable—the wisdom to keep silent and, as far
as possible, to keep away, and not to try to be
heard above the tremendous voice of Seddon.
At first, Thomas was inclined to speak of “Me
and Seddon,” but after Bichard of Kumara had
told of the things Maoriland already boasted —the
land-tax imposed, the big estates broken up, the
closer settlement accomplished, the unemployed
practically abolished —Bent began to perceive that
all these things were yet for him to do, also that
they were a long, long way from accomplishment,
and the Thomas who returned from Ballarat was
a much more silent and thoughtful individual than
the one who went up thither. Even when Bent
was reminded of something and started a reminis-
cence, the same thing always reminded Seddon of
something, and Bent’s reminiscence had no more
chance than a kitten in a quicksand.
Make never mock of cold nor cough—
They danger spell, however slightly ;
Nor e’er esteem it quite enough
To treat the primal symptoms lightly.
Consider, ere you money spend,
To buy but mixtures safe and sure—
Remember one—and recommend
The worth of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*


PALING’S
*
9 . If
Complete with Bow, Case, Set of
Extra Strings and Resin, Post
Free to any PostTowninN.SAV.
School Yiolin -£llO
Student’s Model 111 6
Orchestral Yiolin 2 2 0
Artist Model- -330
Stradiyarius Model 5 5 0
Lupot Model- - 10 10 0
/
Collin-Mezin’s
Yiolins - - 15 15 0
Louis Otto’s Cele-
brated Yiolins 20 0 0
Illustrated Catalogue Free.
PALING 5 S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
53
I Royal I
Accordeons
at Paling’s,
hi
crae &
is. ■ Si "
We have the finest
selection in Australia of
these very popular instru-
ments. Prices are cut to
the lowest possible figure
at which a really first-
class article can be
supplied.
Catalogues and prices
are yours for the asking - .
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
27
Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING’S.
We stock
only the
Best
Makes.
Italian and American. The
prices of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
Paling^s,
338 George St..
SYDNEY.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co
VALUABLE TO YOU!
BOOKS you cannot
afford to be without.
Ready Reference, 4/ - Post Free.
A universal cyclopaedia containing everything that everybody wants to know.
Family Doctor, 10/6 Post Free .
Fully illustrated. An important book that should be in every home. Treats all
manner of ailments of the human frame, from infancy to old age.
English Dictionary, 6/6 Post Free.
Etymological, explanatory, and pronouncing. With copious appendices, illustrated
with numerous full-page colored plates. (Half Morocco bound.).
Book of Household Management, 10/6 . (New Edition)
A guide to cookery in all its branches, also treats exhaustively with the following
subjects : sick nursing, home doctor, home lawyer, care of children, daily duties, &c.,
&c. A most valuable book.
Ladies ' Guide to Health and Beauty, 7/6 fSSL
Containing full information on all matters pertaining to women —hints on courtship and
marriage—nursing and rearing children. Illustrated.
The New Select Speaker, 5/6 Post Free.
Containing essays, orations, choice selections from standard authors, synonyms, etc.
Also rules and exercises for physical culture and elocution, &c.
MARVELLOUS VALUE!!
The “BOOKSTALL” Fountain Pen.
The best for the money. Made of best Para rubber. Well finished, fitted with 14-carat
gold nib (guaranteed) and tipped with Iridium. Undoubtedly the best value for money
ever offered. A really satisfactory and reliable pen. Delightful to use.
Pens i Fine, Medum, Broad. Price 3/6 Post Free 3d. extra.
The “ BUNYIP” Fountain Pen.
Best quality vulcanite case. Fitted with a heavy 14-carat gold nib (guaranteed)—
Iridium tipped and twin feed. Equal to any Guinea Pen on the Market.
Popular Price 5/9 Post Free.
Both these Pens Manufactured' EXPRESSLY TO OUR ORDER.
ADDRESS, CASHIER—
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL 00.
(OPPOSITE Q. V. MARKETS)
476 George St.
—Sy d ney.
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
60 CANDLE POWER for Less than
ONL FARTHING PER HOUR with
ordinary Kerosene.
Complete, with Mantle
and Chimney, from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS.
Extraordinary
Value.
%
Best British
Manufacture.
Complete,
from
18s 6d each.
DOES YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO:-
Welsbach Light Co.
OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYPNEY.
OR
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne*
Perry Bros*, Brisbane*
Harold Colton & Co*, Adelaide*
Levi Green, Perth*


GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD *6OOO GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD I GOOD
GOOD
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
HONEST
SOAP
326
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD. GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit
Highest Grade DCTDAI
American ... 2 fan I liVla
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“MOTA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Somebody sends along a copy of the Boy’s Own
Paper, f° r September 23, 1905, containing- an interview
with M. A. Noble, which, in the light of subsequent
events, is humorous. From this interview The Bulletin
learns that “ Mary Ann’s ” real name is Montague Alfred
and that, having studied dentistry in England and
America, he stands at the top of his profession in Sydney
where he is always ready “to place his splendid
abilities at the service of anyone who is suffering with-
out thought of fee or reward.” Mr. Noble is represented
as having also said, “Turning to the subject of how
much one should play, I should like to say that in
Australia we have no room for loafers, and the
man who spent all his time in play would soon
be a failure altogether. I know of no Australian taking
pa *j fc lu ® r * oket who has n °t got a trade at his fingers’
ends that he could turn to in case of need. That is why
we have no professionals ; and, looking at the better side
of sport, I hope it will remain as it is now.” This, it
must be explained, was before Trumper got the im-
pression that his firm was not getting as many orders for
cricketing material from the N.S. VV. Association as he,
V. 1. would have liked, and elected to play under clause
19 - . This remarkable outbreak concludes with the
information that Montague Alfred is “anxious to keep
cricket free from all that makes for the detriment of
spoi t, and says that in Australia they decline everything’
“ e way of prizes” . . . Seems a pity thac the
ii.O.t. writer didn’t ask him what they did with the sur-
plus revenue of the Australian XI. after paying expenses
and refunding the players the £2 ss. per week that the
majority would have earned at their ordinary avocations.
» * • *
A curious feature of the cricketing rumpus is
that although the self-styled Players—they are really
the ex-Players, of course—have taken the public into
their confidence by publishing their correspondence, or
some of it, with the M.C.0., and have strenuously denied
that they took money to bind a contract to play for the
Melbourne Club, and have generally professed to “ make
a clean breast of it vet on the subject of that agree-
ment with the Melbourne Olub, around which centres all
the trouble so far as they are concerned, they are as re-
ticent as oysters. When they were so stricken with the
desire for publicity, why didn’t they publish that precious
document, and let us see what they really contracted to
do ? It seems strange to protest so emphatically when
the matter could be placed beyond dispute by the pro-
duction of the agreement. Another thing—there are
some astounding discrepancies among the ex-Players.
Part of them say that no agreement has been signed—
that it was merely a case of a letter being sent intimating
that they would play ; while another part emphatically
declares that they' have all signed the same agreement.
* * * *
The threats of Sydney Metropolitan Rugby
Union to use the axe on rough players and nose bashers
produced a salutary effect, and "on Saturday Sydney
Hug by was pervaded with a spirit of politeness that was
almost embarrassing. “By your leave 1 ” said the polite
South Sydney backs as they fled past the struggling New-
town halves, only to be met by the three-quarters, who
pleasantly remarked “ Excuse us” as they pulled them
down. It was all very touching, and it is to be hoped
that it isn’t too fine to last.
The round bristled with the unexpected. That
St. George would make an effective stand against the
heady University team no one expected. The University
backs were expected to go through them as a Reform
politician goes through his promises. But the Saints
put up a determined struggle ; their forwards were very
quick, and smothered tiie Uni. halves. Even when
the halves got the leather out the forward Saints
moved so fast that the three-quarter men were worried
before they could get going. But, unfortunately, the
back division is so eaten up with admiration of its for-
ward section that it stands with its mouth open spell-
bound. That sort of thing is all right among barrackers,
but it’s a deadly complaint for the back division of a play-
ing team, and the result of this gaping was that the Uni.
won by five to three. Newtown and South Sydney made
a draw with five points each. Newtown forwards dribbled
beautifully, and Newtown backs picked up with equal
skill. South’s back division did not play up to its usual
standard, and only managed to get properly going three
times during the whole course of the game. But
the surprise of the day was the defeat of Syd-
ney District by the Balmainers—eight to six. Sydney
team was much heavier, and was supposed to be faster.
But the Balmainers, who looked very slender compared
to their opponents, showed excellent combination. The
two divisions played in perfect harmony, and the superior
weight of the Sydney crowd was completely neutralised
by the skill with which the Balmain pack passed out to
their backs, who, if they could not run, kicked like
lightning and found the touchline every time. It was a
game that was good to see, and if the Balmainers can
keep up that cool, quick precision, they will soon soar up
towards the top of the list. The trouble seems that when
they strike a faster set of forwards, who have the speed
and promptness to bustle the backs, the whole Balmain
machine goes to pieces.
* * * *
The debacle of the day was North Sydney’s dis-
astrous encounter with Eastern Suburbs. The Easterns
were in a tight place, for if they lost that match they
would be no longer in the first flight. The game opened
threateningly for them, for the Northerns got on a great
passing rush, which was only wrecked by the fifth man
missing. Coining again, they were stopped dead on the
line, the man and ball being flung out of touch. When
the ball was thrown in they' got it again, and passed it
down the rank, seeking an opening, but a pass forward
cleared the line. Then was heard the noise of the
Eastern captain shouting. A long kick and a quick follow
saw the ball once more over the line, and two Northmen
racing for it, when suddenly Messenger appeared out of
the earth, and taking it from between them, saved the
situation by running out. But the Shoremen came again,
and East had to force down several times to avoid a score.
The Eastern captain took off his cap: “Gentle-
men, will you kindly refrain from kicking so
hard, and try to keep possession.” Inwardly digest-
ing the remark, they took the ball at their
toes full tilt for the Shore line. It proved to be an
irresistible rush, till a Northman rolled on the ball, and
brought the pack tumbling over him. But Messenger
came raging through, and set going a passing rush that
was only brought to grass on the Northmen’s line, where
a penalty kick relieved them. The Easts continued to
dribble, and two of the Northmen continued to block the
rushes by rolling on the ball, and got winded at last for
their pains. By this time Easts had recovered their
form, and the charges of the Northmen were broken up.
The Eastern men worked deliberately down the touchline,
ate their way into the 25, and then scored with sudden
rushes. The second half was mostly a display by
Messenger, who played an amazing game, and clearly
demonstrated what sort of a fool was that committee
that chose him as fit only to play in the second Fifteen
against the combined country. Eight more points were
scored against the Northmen by that system of working
down the touchline to within striking distance and then
letting go a series of dashes with backs who were com-
paratively fresh. The game ended in a victory for the
Eastern Suburbs by 16 to nil, but in spite of the heavy
score it was a fiercely-contested game right through.
The Northmen were out-generalled, that was all.
* • * *
Eastern Suburbs, Glebe and University are now
in the front rank with nine points each. South Sydney
and Newtown occupy second place with eight, Sydney
and Western Suburbs are abreast with seven, and Bal-
main and North Sydney together with six each. Manly
is two, and the much superior St. George team bottom of
the list with a solitary one. St. George has not yet drawn
its bye, and Manly has. Which explains the bite on the
lady’s cheek.
* * * *
Heaven only knows what went wrong with the
N.S.W. Combined Country when it met the City Rugby
team last week. It just curled up somehow, and seemed
incapable of playing together in the slightest degree. A
harrowing game ended in a collapse, and the C.C. went
under by 37 to three.
• » * *
In the Sydney British Association football com-
petition Pyrmont has broken right away with 12 points,
having won all six games. Glebe, having lost one
game, is within striking distance, and Balmain and
Rozelle, with eight points each, are not altogether in a
hopeless place, but behind those two the outlook is very
black.
* » * *
The first round of Australian football in Sydney
ended on Saturday, and Redfern and Newtown are on
top of it with 12 points apiece, having each won six
games and lost one. Balmain and East Sydnev are next
with ten points, and the once-brilliant Y.M.C.A. is
second last with only one victory and six defeats. The
feature of Saturday’s matches was the grim struggle
between Newtown and Sydney, but the pace was made so
fast that at the end of the first quarter Sydney seemed
exhausted, and settled down to a purely defensive policy.
The result was that it was beaten by 73 to 53—which
was fairly close for the Australian game, in which a team
doesn’t consider itself badly licked unless the other
crowd is a hundred points ahead.
* * * *
So far as football has gone in Melbourne,
Carlton is undefeated this season, and the crowd is
following it round either with the certainty of seeing a
strenuous battle or in the hope of witnessing the debacle
that must sooner or later arrive. It was figured out that
about 36,000 watched the game against South Melbourne
on June 4—the crush to get in broke down the fence at
one spot, and numbers entered unchecked—and got first-
class sport for their money. Last Saturday as many as
could squeeze into the smaller Fitzroy ground saw
another equally strenuous fight, though a high north
wind spoilt the play ; but to within ten minutes of the
bell it was anybody’s game—a goal would have given ’Roy
a lead of one point. Then the Carlton 18 roused them-
selves for a final effort, and a goal and a behind settled
matters and left them still undefeated by seven goals 14
behinds to ’Roy’s six goalseight behinds. Meanwhile South,
only beaten by four points on the Monday, went down to
Geelong and was soundly walloped by about the weakest
team in the League, playing with 17 men half the game,
by 61 points to 31. (That disaster will enable punters to
get longer odds next Saturday, when South meets ’Roy ;
and writer’s sprat will go on South for certain.) Essendon
got the better of Collingwood by 66 points to 49. The
“ same old Essendon ” seems to be looking up once more,
having sustained but two defeats so far, at the feet of
South and Saints, which circumstance has apparently
moved once champion goal-kicker Thurgood to inquire
furiously and at great length (per the Age) why he isn’t
selected to play. But Thurgood’s name is Mud in the
public’s mouth. He is hardly as young as he
was in ’9l to ’94, when the ’‘same old” topped
the list four years running, and Essendon seems
to be doing pretty well without him. In the
Association, Richmond, last year’s winner, takes
fourth place, being defeated by North Melbourne, which,
with YVillianistown, is still half a game behind West
Melbourne. The most awful downfall on Saturday
occurred to Port Melbourne, which its secretary had
declared, at an argumentative meeting during the week,
was “the only amateur team in the Association.”
Prahran had scored only one victory so far this season,
and didn’t reckon to do anything sudden with Ports
on the latter’s ground, but at the finish the board showed
Prahran three goals 12 behinds to Ports two behinds !
Amateurism doesn’t seem to suit Port Melbourne—two
years ago it was battling in thefinalsfor the premiership.
That Fiat XIII. motor boat that put up such a
splendid run at Monaco Speed Races was Italian, and not
French. She was the dark horse of the meeting. The
Fiat XIII. would certainly have won the “ Championship
of the Sea ” race, which went to the Delahaye, but for the
fact that her petrol tank suddenly emptied, and the
delay gave the French boat such a start that her position
was unassailable. The Seasick (what a name), which
travelled 25J knots an hour was a 27ft. craft of Italian
manufacture, fitted with an “Italia” motor, and was
only just beaten by the English Yarrow-Napier. That
the English craft competed at all was marvellous.
The transhipment from the British steamer at Marseilles
was carried out in very stormy weather, and the boat’s
shaft was badly bent. The mechanicians in charge set to
work to straighten it as well as; they could, but it was
only in the 50-kilometre race that the driver got up suffi-
cient enthusiasm to risk letting her go at her full power.
He made a marvellous spurt, and while he shivered, wait-
ing to feel the bottom torn out of his boat, he overtook
and passed every other vessel on the run in an amazing
manner. The other British boat, the Siola, lost her
chance through dropping a man overboard. The captain
brought his boat right round, and swooping down,
rescued the struggling mariner without slackening speed.
The performance was greeted with applause, but it left
the Siola out of the race.
* * * *
The 18th Inter-State University boat-race came
off in Indian-summer weather on the Parramatta River,
on Saturday afternoon, in the presence of a huge and
fashionable crowd. Also, a large part of the crowd wasn’t
fashionable, but wanted to look as though it was. The
motor boat was out in all its glory, and knocked a big
hole in the steamer receipts, which caused some people to
remark sadly that the sport was going to the devil. Such
a, lot of things go to the devil that his premises must look
like a marine store. The first start happened at precisely
4 p.m., and Sydney went off with a lurch and a bound,
but Melbourne crew having broken a scull, all were
called back, and a dreary wait of what seemed like six
weeks occurred while a steamer hunted up and down the
river for an oar. At last it returned with two, and
another start was made. Sydnev again left as
though the bailiffs were behind it, but the other
two also rowed as though somewhat alarmed, and
drew level. Then Adelaide had the impudence to go in
front, but the Melbourne fellows lifted their boat with a
long easy stroke, and soon held the lead. After passing
Blaxland, it was all over bar the shouting, and from
thence onward Melbourne was never seriously threatened,
winning: with comparative ease by three lengths from
Sydney, with Adelaide fairly pumped out 35sec. in
Sydney’s wake. The Melbourne lads are a fine lot of oars-
men. The trouble with the Sydney fellows was that they'
pulled too fast—a sort of staccato stroke, so to speak, and
there was no gristle in it.
• * * *
Sydney road cycling is going to have a big
smash. On Saturday last no less than nine races were de-
cided over the strip of road between Homebush and Gran-
ville, and things are getting very crowded.
A * * *
The recommendation of the Federal Cycling
Council that in future all scratch races should be over
three, five, or ten miles, bears out the argument of The
Bulletin last season that the public does not get up any
wild enthusiasm over the half-mile and one-mile races.
In these fixtures all parties loaf as much as possible and
juggle for position, and then in the last lap make a wild-
cat struggle for first place. The five-mile events during
the last carnival at Sydney Cricket Ground aroused great
enthusiasm, and the test of stamina, the scramble for
position at the bell, and the rush home were all very
enthralling. There is more genuine struggle in one five
mile race than in a score of mile dashes.
* # « *
Victorian runner Blake writes home that he
lost the Marathon (26 miles) race, owing to an attack of
bugs the night before, which made sleep impossible, and
left him in a jaded condition for the great contest. The
Norfolk Howard lends a new element of uncertainty to
sport, which was uncertain enough without him.
» * « *
Howl, ye sports, and cry, and rub your faces in
the dirt I Australia was the only country competing at
the Olympic Games that did not carry off at least one first
or second prize. Even Finland got away with two firsts
and a third ; and despised Holland, in spite of its
tremendous knickerbockers, appropriated one second.
Bohemia carried off a first and a second. In fact, the
English-speaking races came out only moderately all
round. Britain won eight firsts, 11 seconds, and six
thirds ; Canada, one first and one second ; and Australia,
three thirds* —a grand total of 30. The U.S.A., considering
its population, did much worse, its numbers being 11 firsts,
six seconds, and the same number of thirds, a total of
23. France and Greece were the successful nations, the
French winning no less than 23 firsts, eight seconds, and
13 thirds, a total of 44. Greece, little Greece, compara-
tively fresh from its enormous sprint before the Turkish
aignies, carried off nine firsts, 20 seconds, and 13 thirds, a
total of 42. As before remarked, Howl, ye sports, rub
cigar ash on your faces, and take to drink 1
* * * *
The committee of the Kieran Memorial Fund
has decided how it will spend the money. A tombstone
will be erected over the grave in Gore Hill cemetery'. A
tablet will be placed in a conspicuous place on board the
Sobraon. The Kieran Memorial Shield will be given for a
period of 12 months to the State scoring the greatest
number of points at the annual Australasian Champion-
ship Meeting, and for the next ten years the champion
swimmers of the public schools and the Sobraon will
receive medals from the fund. Altogether it seems as
good a method as could be devised for keeping green the
memory of the world’s greatest known swimmer.
* * * *
Cecil Healy made a good start on his arrival
in England by beating Harvey and Faircloth, the cham-
pions of South England, over 120y'ds. The cable affected
a close reserve on the matter of time, so it is impossible
to say whether the victory' reflected any credit on Healy,
or merely discredit on Faircloth, or Floorcloth, or what-
ever was the name of the gentleman Healy wiped the
floor of the bath with.
* * * »
Adelaide Racing Club meeting saw £32,000 go
through the totalisator in three days. Of this sum
Government takes £BOO, and the club £2400 towards its
stake-money of about £4OOO. In the two chief races,
City Handicap and Birthday' Cup (just as in the Adelaide
Cup last month), the favorite ran second, but backers of
the favorite, under the new rule which pays out two divi-
dends, practically' got their money back. The stewards
established a local precedent by refusing to leta“shab-
bily'-attired ” jockey' weigh out “ unless he improved his
general appearance.’’ He did not see his way clear to do
this on the moment, not having his box of clothes with
him, and his mount was scratched 1
* * ♦ *
Boabdil just now is doing as well as he did 12
months ago, when great things were expected of the son
of Bobadil and Circle. Last week he won the Birthday
Handicap at Flemington for the second .year in succession,
carrying 151 b. more than his previous burden and cover-
ing the 12 furlongs in fairly good winter time. It may be
that Boabdil races best in cool weather, or is great only
when the opposition is weak. The stylish nag disap-
pointed his people at the Caulfield and Melbourne Cup
meetings in 1905, but «he promises to have a big following
this spring—if he isn’t sold to go to India.
* * * *
“Dux”: The ups and downs of the double
totalisator. At Takapuna (Auckland, M.L.) meet the
double tote paid a dividend of £513 18s. the first day, and
£9 6s. the second. What a fall 1
* * * *■
A very old stager won a jumpers’ flat race at
the Adelaide Birthday Cup meeting. Mackay was bred
by Long and Hill in N.S. W. as long ago as 1892, drily
began racing as a 5-year-old, has started over 100 times,
and has won races in three States. He is by Marvellous
from Paquita.
* * * *
Of Sydney’s four suburban horse-racing tracks,
Rosehill and Warwick Farm are the only Ones where a
good nag gets a fair chance in the running. The other
two hamper him more or less—particularly Canterbury
Park, which is of the circus ring order. Consequently
“triers” at Warwick Farm and Rosehill are usually of
higher class than those elsewhere. Warwick Farm hasn’t
seen a better day’s racing than last Saturday’s. Two
events were won only in the last couple of strides, and
little more than heads separated the first five
in the big thing Warwick Farm Handicap. Al-
cander, who shared first favoritism with Binnia,
snatched the money on the post after looking, at the
home , turn, as if his prospects were of the poorest.
Pace Welter supplied an almost exactly similar finish.
The well-backed Jackeroo appeared without a hope at
one stage, but finished so gamely that he just won, with
perhaps a dozen others almost on top of him. The single
fly in the ointment was Returned’s runaway win of Farm
Stakes, wherein his rider took no risks and got home by
that oft-mentioned “street.” Returned will Score again
a few times (all going well) and in much better com-
pany than Saturday’s.
* * * *
Death of Queensland’s cross-country rider, H.
Shields, was possibly caused primarily by that bad fall
from Arabi Bey, the effect of which remained with him
ever since. Shields was 33 years old, and during his 15
years of riding he gathered many “ lepping ” events,
mostly for Mr. W. Elliott, on Ringwood.
* * • *
Thusfar the Melbourne police proceedings
against “ Kemp,” the buckjumping showman, have failed
to justify' the sensational arrest of that long-haired
person. When he first appeared at Melbourne City Court
it was stated that 15 charges of larceny and other offences
were coming and Panton demanded two sureties of £5OO
as bail for the prisoner. Two or three of the 15 charges
have broken down badly'. If the police can bring any
heavy artillery to bear upon Kemp’s character they must
open fire forthwith, otherwise Pan ton’s estimate of reason-
able bail will look ridiculously unjust. In fixing it at two
sureties of £5OO each the beak practically committed him-
self to the opinion that Kemp was in a predicament from
which he might be expected to do a “ bolt” rather than
stay to face the risk of being found guilt}'. So far that
opinion hasn’t been justified. Four years ago Kemp was
arrested on a charge of stealing a horse and saddle. He
made his escape from custody, and now he stands
acquitted of the charge which got him into custody.
He was merely guilty of asserting his innocence in an
unlawful manner, the same manner in which he asserted
his sanity on another occasion when he was sentenced to
confinement as a lunatic.
* * * »
Premier Joe’s hunt for a surplus on Sunday
night took his police over a wilderness of roofs between
Goulburn and Campbell streets, Sydney, after which the
whole foorce tore its pants sliding down a 20ft. pole into
a Chinese courtyard. The bag was not a large one, con-
sisting of only eight Chows, £o 12s. 6d. in cash, and some
fan-tan paraphernalia, which the thrifty Premier will
probably be able to sell to the next church bazaar.
* * * +
The parties accessory to Saturday’s hurling
upheaval were St. James’s and St. Brigid’s clubs, and the
contest was watched by a good-humored crowd which
spoke mostly with traces of a brogue. The start of the
play was marked by a tremendous rush on the part of
St. James, who in a trice had the other Saint with her
back to the wall, so to speak. After scoring a couple of
points, St. James found himself attacked in turn, but
survived it, and, following up the repulse, scored a goal.
This made St. Brigid stare, but she evidently reckoned it
was a good example, and shortly afterwards gave St.
James a taste of his own methods. Half-time found St.
James leading by two goals four points to two goals two
points, or 10 to eight. St. Brigid had plenty of enthu-
siasm, but lacked the combination of St. James, and the
latter slowly crept ahead. It was a fine fast game, each
side scoring repeatedly, but St. James had more pace,
and the game ended in his favor by six goals seven points
to four goals eight points, or 25 points to 20. What was
apparently wrong with St. Brigid was that the lady hadn’t
practised together sufficiently.
* * * * *
All chance of seeing the Davis Cup, the inter-
national Lawn Tennis bauble, come to Australia lias gone ;
two Beef Trusters named Ward and Little beat Poidevin,
of N.S.W., and Wilding, of M.L., by three sets to two.
* • * •
“Poor Hawk”: Maoriland pug. Ruenalf’s
show recently gave Bourke (N.S.W.) abounteous shilling’s
worth of buckjumping and biff. The proprietor offered
the local Bill and Jim £1 for every minute they could sit
on his outlaws (in any saddle), and as no one came for-
ward to accept the munificent wage of £6O per hour, I am
inclined to think that Ogilvie’s heroes of the saddle have
died or migrated, or only existed in the bard’s imagina-
tion. A local pug. (who at one time beat A. Tully in an
eight-round “ go” for a £lO wager) accepted a challenge
from Ruenalf for a three-round spar. At the beginning
of hostilities Ruenalf, with hands behind bis back, con-
temptuously asked the local to hit him on the nose. The
offer was accepted, and Ruenalf retired to the ropes a
sadder and a more damaged man. Ruenalf and Madame
R. gave a musical spar turn which, to my idea, was the
very poetry of motion in the pugilistic line ; and later the
lady made the punching-ball jig to the tune of “ M'Oarty’s
Mare.” If she hits as hard and fast in her serious moods
as in her playful ones, I wouldn’t be the second Mr.
Ruenalf for a small fortune.
* * •* *
Melbourne Olympic Club seems to have no luck
at all. It promotes fight after fight, all of them promis-
ing to be good affairs, and they fizzle out tamely in a
round or two and disappoint all who have paid good
money to get into the Cyclorama. Last week Dan
Creedon was matched against Bill Smith. A medical cer-
tificate was advertised in the papers certifying that Dan
was fit and well ; but the fight showed that the
doctor was a long way out. Dan, with his silver
hair, leonine chest, statuesque poses, and gladia-
tor’s face looked just as good as he was ten years
ago. But he had taken off two stone in a few weeks and
wasn’t fit to fight two rounds with himself, whereas
Smith, long, determined, brown and fit as a fiddle, made
the pace hot from the start. Dan went into the ring at
6 to 4 on, and lengthened to 5 to 1 in a round and a half.
Smith’s long left was never out of his face, while the few
hits that Dan did get in had no power in them. In
the first round the old fellow’s cheek was cut.
In the second his mouth was deteriorated. In the third
his nose bled fiercely. He wasn’t even strong enough
to side-step the other man, but walked straight into the
long left every time, and hurt his nose more and more.
Also he got a few on the bingev, and Dan’s bingey is a
delicate spot these days. At the end of the third round
he threw in the towel, like a wise old man, and Smith got
the fight. Dan Oreedon is a back number, and will show
his sense in future by keeping out of the ring. He is not
such a very old man, as his years only number 37 ; but
Dan has crammed 20 years into the last 10, and feels it
now. Smith has a wild, reachy style of fighting ; but
he has an ugly hit at the end of his widespread left which
should win him a fight or two.
* * * *
There were two alleged first-grade scraps in
Sydney last week. At the National Sporting Club Joe
Costa got a decision over Jack Willis after 20 rounds, in
which nobody got hurt; and on Saturday night Jones, of
Sydney, and Ranji Moodie, of Melbourne, inflicted a
dreary spectacle on a long-suffering audience for a period
of 20 rounds also. Both affairs were very peaceful.
Be Your Own Doctor.
Prescribe Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
and Keep a Bottle in the House.
The doctor is a luxury that thousands and
thousands of people can ill afford. The necessity
of calling one in is considered a calamity in a
family where they find it
hard to secure the common
necessities of life and make
ends meet. Disease and
sickness are no respecters
of persons. Rich and poor
are subject to all the
common ailments, dis-
orders of the stomach, liver,
kidneys and blood. In
thousands of homes
throughout Australasia—
in the mansions, the villa,
the cottage, the camp, the
homestead, in the settler’s
home and the bushman’s
hut—Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are the house-
hold remedy forall common
complaints. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are
purely vegetable, causing
no pain or griping, and
may be taken by the youngest child or the most
delicate woman. They are an efficient, reliable
and safe remedy, placed on the market at a price
within the reach of all. The pills, being sugar-
coated, are pleasant to take, and retain their full
medicinal properties. They are packed in amber-
colored bottles—not in cheap wooden or paste-
board boxes—and are thus always fresh and clean,
impervious to moisture, unaffected by climatic
conditions, and do not deteriorate by keeping, as
all liquid medicines do. They are a perfect blood
purifier and a positive and permanent cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments.*


x OUR HATS ARE X
STIRRING UP THINGS.
THERE’S a great flutter in the Importers’ Dovecot
owing to the way in which our Hard and Soft
Felt Hats have captured the Australian market,
they don t like seeing these Australian-made Hats of
ours ousting them out of the field they so long
exploited—they’d still like that £200,000 a year sent
out of Australia for imported Hats. Our Hats are so
frankly Australian—Australian all through—they are
hand made of the choicest pure fur only by skilled
Australian Hatters—men who earn their full union
wage for the week’s work of 48 hours. The colors are
absolutely fast dyed—comfortable to the head—and
the shapes comprise every need of the Squatter, the
City Man the Farmer, the Miner and the Station
Hand. They cost 10/6 and 12/6 from all Dealers
throughout the Commonwealth. Ask for them and
if you cannot buy them in your District, write to us
direct, giving your dealer’s name. You will find
them, on trial, to be far better than other Hats—
whatever their origin—costing the same or even
more money.
REMEMBER all our Hats have our full
name stamped on the Inside leather
without this none Is genuine.
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS PROPY LTD.,
X ‘— ABBOTSFORD, x
Amusements.
COUNTRY TOUR of the
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
thaumaturcic picture display.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
LAURIETON, FRIDAY & SATURDAY, JUNE 15 and 16
PORT MACQUARIE, MONDAY, JUNE 18
WAUCHOPE, TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY, JUNE 19 & 20
KEMPSEY, THURSDAY & FRIDAY, JUNE 21 and 22.
H. COLLINS, Manager.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War, Patriotic, Comic, Coon.
Nigger, Sacred, Pathetic, and Love Songs of England.
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, etc
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. Most marvellous collection ever bound together
between the covers of one book. Price only 2/6, posted 2/10.
If stamps only are enclosed add Sd. extra. List of Songs for stamn
Name, this paver.
At t/« SMITH & CO. , 6 Moore St,, Sydney .
Missing- Friends.
IF this should meet the eye of WILLIAM
H. HANSON, late of Bacchus Marsh,
Victoria, write to sister Sarah. Nettie dead.
Amusements.
pLAN NOW OPEN
AT PALING’S.
MARIE NARELLE
CONCERTS.
CHESTER FENTRESS, TENOR.
CONSTANCE BRANDON-USHER, PIANIST
TOWN HALL,
JUNE 16, 19, 21, and 23.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
3s. and ss. SEATS RESERVED.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee J. O. WILLIAMSON.
LAST NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S Spectacular, Sporting, & Military Drama,
FOR ENGLAND.
Next Production—lN SIGHT OF ST. PAUL’S.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
K.JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ * Lessee and Manaarer .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in
THE LITTLE MICHUS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. SW PRICES AS USUAL.
PLEASANT WINTERS,
TWO IDEAL SEASONABLE NECESSITIES.
Electric pocket [amps
Japanese Hand farmers.
BEFORE the Winter is any further advanced with
its dangerous early twilights, you will be wise
if you procure one of our marvellous Electric
Pocket Lamps. In England, America, and
other countries they are now recognised as necessi-
p
ties. You, too, have often-
tiiries felt the necessity for
something- better some-
thing safer than using
matches or carrying danger-
ous candles about the house.
That something is our Won-
derful Electric Pocket
Lamp. No trouble to operate
—no smoke or smell, nothing
to get out of order. It is
easier —and far safer—to
handle than a match: just
press the button and you have
a dazzling, blinding, beauti-
fully clear white light, which
KEEPS ALIGHT as long as
you maintain the Button
pressed. Our first grade ELECTRIC POCKET LAMP
is the most wonderful achievement of the present
day. It is fitted with our famous ELECTROLYTE
BATTERY, which is guaranteed to give at least
twice as powerful a light, and last as long again as
any other Pocket Lamp or Torch Battery on the
market, size or price notwithstanding. This Battery
used a little each night, will last at least six months’
when fresh ones can always be obtained from us’
Batteries are sent out UNCHARGED, consequently
can be sent to any address or kept in stock any
length of time without the slightest loss of current.
The charging is a most, interesting and simple pro-
cess, and most instructive to those desirous of
further extending their knowledge of Electricity.
PRICE, complete, post free to any address, 7/6-
Extra Batteries, 2/6.
SECOND GRADE.—Wonderful value for the money,
and, to many, are just as good as the first grade!
Price 3/9, post free ; Extra Batteries, 1/6.
FREE.
One of our Splendid
Hand Warmers Free.
To anyone ordering two of our first grade Electric
Pocket Lamps, or three of the second grade, we will
present, without charge, one of our grand Japan-
ese Hand Warmers. Whilst being new to
Australia, there is nothing so widely known nor
extensively known in Japan and elsewhere. The
Hand Warmer comprises a small Metal Box, covered
with Velvet, and measuring only sin. x 3in., lin.
thick, into which is placed a cartridge of the heating
material, and the lid placed firmly on. This material
has the property of giving forth a heat of about 120
degrees for several hours, after which time a fresh
Cartridge can be inserted. There is no smoke, and
no smell, and positively no danger whatsoever. The
HAND WARMER can be carried in the Pocket or
Muff or other convenient part of the body, or can be
used as a foot-warmer, or for warming the bed, etc.,
etc. A veritable boon to those who suffer from
toothache, neuralgia, headaches, pneumonia, and
other winter complaints. A regular degree of heat
maintained. Cartridges can be kept for any length of
time without danger or fear of deterioration.
Nobody should be without a JAPANESE HAND
WARMER. Must be seen to be appreciated. There
is nothing like it anywhere. Price, with a supply of
Ten Cartridges, ONLY 2/6 post free anywhere.
Extra Cartridges, 4d. per packet of 10. fen Car-
tridges contain about 40 hours’ warmth, thus making
the JAPANESE HAND WARMER the cheapest ever
known. Send for one now, or take advantage of our
marvellous free offer before it is withdrawn.
A. J. SMITH and CO.,
6 Moore Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
THEATR|£, SYDNEY.
QRITERION
Direction of EDWIN GEAOH.
FAREWELL NIGHTS of the
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD NEW LONDON COMEDY
COMPANY, including- MISS CRACE PALOTTA,
the Famous Society and Beauty Actress, in
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is.
Tickets at White Rose.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Unparalleled Success of the
MILES-STRAVORDALE QUINTETTE in perfect imita-
tions of the Human Voice from the Strings of the Banjo.
Enormous Success of OMEGA, Queen of the Wire.
Also, O NATIS TROUPE of Wonderful Algerian Jugglers
Continued Enormous Success of BLAKE and GRANBY.
Last 2 Nights of THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
THE SISTERS WARNER, MISS NITA LEKTE
FRED. BLUETT, IRVING SAYLES, ALICE FANE.
n PER A house, ivTe iTb our n e.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAROLA, Funny Man, Funny Ways.
ROSE CABANI, Serio Comic and Dancer.
SLADE MURRAY, Comedian, Descriptive Vocalist.
VASCO, the Mad Musician, plays 27 Instruments.
MDLLE ALEXANDRA, MASTER BERTIE, Novelty Act
LILIETH LEYTON and Mr. HARRY KENDAL in
Comedy Sketch, THE LADY BURGLAR.
And a host of others.
Plan at Allan’s. A3F PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
CENTENARY
Direction ..
HALL, SYDNEY.
Mr. W. J. Macdermott.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
Macdermott’s Naw Zealand
Biograph Company.
mm- A Prime Pictorial Pleasure.
PROFESSOR W. E. SCOTT, Ventriloquist, Magician.
Pictured Melody. Illustrated Ballads.
2s, Is, 6d. Matinees, Wednesdays and Saturdays.
AUSTRALIAN AXEMEN’S CHOPPING CARNIVAL,
Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus Building, Melbourne.
£22.5 12th, 13th, & 14th JULY, 1906.
in Prizes. PROGRAMME :
CHAMPION STANDING BLOCK CHOP, 56in. Logs.—
First, £25 and Gold Medal ; second, £10; third, £5.
Entry 10s.
CHAMPION U. H. CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £25 and
Gold Medal; second, £lO ; third, £5. Entry 10s.
U.H. HANDICAP CHOP, 62in. Logs.—First, £3O;
second, £l5 ; third, £5. Entry 30s. ; no acceptance.
S.B. HANDICAP CHOP, 56in. Logs.—First, £3O ; second,
£l5 ; third, £5, Entrv 30s. ; no acceptance.
INTERSTATE TEAMS MATCH, 3ft. Logs.—First, £lO •
second, £5 ; Entrv 10s.
D.H. SAWING MATCH.-First, £10; second, £5; Entry
10s. J
PALING SPLITTING COMPETITION.—First, £10;
second, £5. Entry 10s.
BLACKBUTT TIMBER. Entries to
C. E. ELY, Toora, South Gippsland.
E. ERSKINE SCOTT, Business Manager.
Amusements.
New theatre royal, Melbourne - .
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
The Latest London and Continental Sucpess,
DEATH OR GLORY BOYS.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
Per majestfs theatre, Melbourne.
■■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, June 14, FRIDAY, June 15,
Last Performances of THE DICTATOR.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 10,
America's Foremost Comedian, MR. WILLIAM COLLIER,
—in—
ON THE QUIET.
As played by Mr. Collier upwards of a thousands times.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
HEIGEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS, EVERY EVENING,
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
THE BRESCIANS,
ORCHESTRA AND SINGERS.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
Weekly
EDISON Pay-
PHONOCRAPHS. Cash. Terms. Deposit, ments.
Packing Free to any address.
Terms extended to Householders only. Send for
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
A.L3BERX & SOW,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANB.
k i
\
' N<
rt j */.
LOOK
OUT!
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
All States and N.Z»
THERE’S TROUBLE AHEAD
if you ride Cycle Tyres of the cheap
and nasty order. Specify Vulcanised
when purchasing your machine—or replace-
ments and you can then rest assured that
you have the Best Tyres that Money
can buy. Roadster Tyres guaranteed
12 months. Beware of Imitations.
these tyres; ar.e made by
AUSTRALIANS FOR **
AUSTRALIAN ROADS.
The rival widows of poor Tom Black, of
South Melbourne, were duly sorted out by the
coroner last week, after a lot of tears and trouble.
The real widow, it seems, had made no claim to
Tom’s live body for many years past. She was
comfortably separated from her husband, whereas
“Mrs. Jane Black” was his old-established
partner in domesticity, and it was she who
buried him and paid for the funeral. Mrs. Jane
tried hard to persuade the coroner that the
informal wife of a live Black is entitled to
rank as his widow when he has been planted
at her expense, but the first Mrs. Black
brought her marriage lines and made good her
claim to deceased’s property. The holy state of
matrimony assumes a horribly commercial aspect
in such cases
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, (Sydney),
report: The market still remains firm with a good
demand, and all wools offering are readily taken at prices
quite on a par with those ruling at the last Sydney sales.
During the week we have placed amongst other parcels a
good consignment of scoured skin wool on behalf of the
Sydney Meat Company at highly satisfactory prices. As
usual the latter line was well prepared by Messrs. F. W.
Hughes and Co., Botany. Auctions will be resumed in
this market on 19th inst.*
About an imported parson :
A Melbourne lady has discovered to her sorrow that
an archdeacon of the Anglican High Church (especially
if he be an imported person) is an autocrat against whose
acts of injustice there is no appeal. The lady in question
had been invited to enter her 10-year-old son as a candi-
date for the choir of a fashionable tabernacle, and the
youngster, being bright and tuneful, was duly selected
to warble in a surplice. His mother was desired
to produce' evidence of the new choir-boy’s baptism,
whereby he became “ a child of Grace,” and gave the
necessary assurance to the archdeacon aforesaid,
lhen she imprudently mentioned that she was
divorced. She saw no harm in the fact, considering
that it was she who got the divorce years ago on the
ground of desertion. Incidentally she raised the question
of a second marriage, asking whether the Church of Kng-
land made any difficulty about marrying a woman under
such circumstances as had befallen her. The Archdeacon
leplied that he wouldn’t perform the ceremony publicly
or privately, and then she went away, feeling very sorry
for having spoken. Next Sunday, her boy got word from
c " olrl,las ter that his services were not required,
ihe Archdeacon had put another boy in his place,
and would give no reasons for so doing. An
appeal to Archbishop Clarke brought a seemingly
sympathetic reply to the effect that he would
Archdeacon. Which was all the satisfaction
the indignant mother could ever get from the blessed
church. The gaitered potentate had nothing further to
say ; his protdgd, the imported Archdeacon, had nothing
further to say. Neither of them was “game” to state
whether the boy was excluded from the choir because his
mother had been basely deserted, or because the deserted
parent had availed herself of the divorce law of her
country, or because she intended to lawfully marry
again. The attitude of the Anglican High and R.C.
Ghurches towards divorced women and men amounts
practically, to an insolent violation of the law which per-,
nuts them t 0 ? ank as marriage registry offices. In matters
of birth, marriage and death the interference of sectarian
bigotry is not infrequently baneful. It is time that the
Law cancelled the Churches’ silly old license to interfere.
A Trust controlling the agricultural machinery
of the world would be practically a Bread Trust. It
could command all the grain of the globe. No crops
could be harvested without its consent, and except on its
terms. It could hold up the farmers of any country and
condemn them to let their crops rot on the ground. It
could dictate the price and destination of every ear of
grain. Without machinery to till his ground and to
harvest his crop the farmer would be helpless.”— From
Office Trail of the Trust,” now on sale at The Bulletin
A year or two ago an agreement was
arrived at between N.S.W. and Victoria that a
connection should be made between the Victoria
line, which now ends at Mildura, and the N.S.W-
town of Wentworth. The agreement was subject
to the ratification of Parliament, but the N.S.W.
Government lias so far refused to submit it to
Parliament. Said Solemn Lee, Minister of Public
Works, when the subject cropped up the other
At the present time the proposal is in abeyance, and we
do not contemplate taking any action at all.
Apparently Solemn Lee sees nothing disgraceful
m failing to keep a promise. The present N.S.W.
Government, it would seem, is so accustomed to
being a political liar that it accepts the situation
as a matter of course.
As The Bulletin goes to press, some more
developments in the amazing Melville Island case
(see page 6) are reported. The day after his
failure to attend at the Shipping-office, as per
appointment, to pay the men, the captain
turned up. There was further argument and
bluff; but no pay. Then he made an appoint-
ment for the following day. This he failed to
keep, and there the matter stands. The Melville
Island men, whilst imprisoned on that boat,
recognised four men on board as deserters from
the Russian barque Ocean. These men were
w’anted; their portraits were in the Police
Gazette ; and the police were notified of their
whereabouts on the Wednesday, but it was not
till Friday afternoon that the Chief Sec-
retary, acting on a pretty straight letter from the
Sailors’ Home superintendent, notified Chief Com-
missioner O’Callaghan that he and his men were
expected to do their duty and arrest the “wanted”
sailors. On the Saturday the very gradual police
went to the Melville Island and arrested two of
the Russian deserters, the other two being a-
missing. So far nobody has ventured to ask this
remarkable captain what he was doing harboring
deserters on his vessel; in fact, everybody—except
solicitor Woolf —seems afraid to ask him anything
unpleasant; and P.M. Pan ton and the police
have done all they can to help him to flout the
Supreme Court and defy the law.
Father of N.S.W. Assembly, Harry
Levien, has a record that is rare in the Ma State’s
political history. Although a member for over a
quarter of a century, he has never yet enjoyed the
sweets of what Parkes termed “hoffis. ” And, by
the look of him, it hasn’t worried him any.
Mr. Divorce Justice Simpson (N.S.W.) has
laid it down that using horrible language at one’s
wife does not constitute cruelty if the lady is
accustomed to the language. This complicates
things considerably. Cruelty has to be more or
less habitual to give the applicant a fair chance of
divorce. If she is only cursed once or twice or
three times, the thing is hardly habitual enough
to get a decree upon, and when she is cursed the
fourth time she is beginning to get used to it, and
her chance is fading away again. The fifth or
sixth cursing is supposed by Mr. Divorce Simpson
to have no effect on her.
Regarding a paragraph as to the Inter-
national Harvester Trust (17/5/’O6). Reid and
Gray, implement-makers, Dunedin (M.L.), write
that their firm has never been approached by the
“ International ” for amalgamation. The firm was
sub-agent for the Deering machine (one of the
Trust’s lines), but has lately dropped that and
taken in its place a British firm’s agency.


(1) The best possible mail service,
(2) Every article we sell.
WHAT WE GUARANTEE!
(3) We assume every possible risk.
(4) Best Goods at Lowest Prices.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER VASE, n„re
silver-mounted.
green glass,
Other Styles, i
2s 3d, 2s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver-mounted PAPER KNIFE, highly burnished
steel blade, Tin long, 2s Cd.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
best rubberi lining, pure
silver shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Wishbone
LINKS, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK, finest
French 8-day movement,
solid brass case, enamel
dial, richly ornamented,
£3. Other Styles, 255,
30s, 40s, to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, pure silver-plated, pearl
handle, 7£in long, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 21s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN
CUSHION, velvet top,
5s 6d. Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
comprising three pairs
Sheffield Steel Scis-
sors, 6s 6d.
Extra Quality, Us 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure silver-plated,
crystal ft!ass, 8s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
GOODS O
QUALITY.
We sell
only the
good
Quality of Goods
that we
know
will please
and give you
every satisfaction.
All Goods
sent
POST FREE
to any
address in
Australasia
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH ROLLED-GOLD FRAMES, fitted ordinary Lenses, 12s 6d.
Astigmatic Lenses, 21s. Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Our Orystalite SPECS., 3s 6d. Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
WE ARE CONSULTING OPTICIANS.
FREE for the
ASKING.
If you cannot
visit us,
send for
our
Illustrated
Catalogue:
Its exact
reproductions
take away
all uncertainty
from
MAIL BUYING.
It’s Free.
Just ask for it.
*■
Hi
. ’
i ir .
l Si
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure
silver-plated, satin finish,
hand engraved, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
18ct. Gold Diamonds
and Rubies
ov Sapphires,
£2.
18ct. Gold, 5 fine
Pure Opals, £2.
Larger Opals,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
PENDANT, gold-mounted,
6s 6d. Larger, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in four
sizes, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s. All with
safety chain attached.
A. SAUNDERS.
18st Gold RING,
pure double-cut
diamond, £2,
Larger Diamond,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold MUFF CHAINS, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £O, £7, £B, £lO. Necklets
to match, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 20s.
Isct. Gold, 40s.
ISct. Gold, 50s.
Handsome 8-day Marbellette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves, rich, loud gong, richly
ornamented case, brass mountings, fancy dial, first-class timekeeper, £2 ss.
Kept in free repair for 2 years. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 42s 6d, 50s.
Solid Silver Sovereign
PURSE, 7s 6d, 10s.
Silver Filled, Cs 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
18ct. Gold, pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3.
6 Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds, £5.
or Sapphires,
£7 10s.
9ct Gold BRACELET, 3 pure double-cut diamonds,
with safety chain, £5. Diamond and 2 rubies, £4 10s.
h
9ct. Gold PIN,
Bet pure White
Pearls, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold,
17s 6d..
Ladies’ Black Open-face Key-
less WATCHES, 10s 6d
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s 255!
Solid Silver, Hunting Cases
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3
Oct. Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Ruby or Sap-
Gent.’s Shaving
Steel Razor and
Quality, 15s.
ROLL, comprising finest Silver
4 useful articles, 12s 6d. Extra
With two Razors, 21s, 22s 6d.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless Watches, Jewelled,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s. £4, £5,
£6, £7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5
years.
9ct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” Friend-
ship CHARM,
7s fid.
Crocodile Leather
Chatelaine Spec.
CASE, 10s 6d.
15s
20s
/
V
==3
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s.
Specially recommended. All Guaranteed.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set pure
White Pearls, 20s.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
long white bristles, 5s 6d. Other
Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d. 10s.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSHES, long white bristles
10s 6d. Others, 8s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Field or Marine GLASSES, large
field of vision, 265. Other Styles,
12s 6d, 17s fid, 20s, 30s.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6. 15ct. Gold,
£5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO. Solid
Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Gold Filled,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set
Pearls and Ruby, 15s.
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB,
Imitation Tortoiseshell, 7s 6d. Other
Styles. 3s 6d. 4s 6cL 5s 6d. 6s 6d.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, richly engraved,
gilt lined, 8s 6d. Other
Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent Gold-
Cased, £4 4s, £5 ss, £G 10s. Solid Gold,
£6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranted 5,6, and 7 years.
GOLD-
CHASED,
£4 4s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, 1
A. SAUNDERS
( 809, 81 I, 813, 315, 817}
t GEORGE-STREET, )
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


VKI
; ~4V 1 ,, ixl ')1)0IH5' Oft.
MKrtt
lit Ml
\rr
[vvtf r?r-}
fihmt':
.„" s
•'
f nS
.
§#
SEr^cr
f - -•
-
:
■
* r •.■-.■
■ .
■ .
, ? . '
■ ■
■
«|. ■■ ■■ V '
jm
a-— _.. ff«S ■; •■
_ tT'
\m&.
* , I
' I
f
‘ !
,
%k'y #T-
-1% «■
A Good PuII—YANKEE DOODLE for the Country.
■ , \


SUPPED IT THE HOSE
F'gl
W 9.
M
o,
Fio.4.
F, g
“Ah, that’s Catarrhsaid the Doctor, “Chronic
Catarrh . /t is quite incurable—there is no cure for
Catarrh known to medical science
Such is only too frequently the kind of consolation offered to Catarrhal sufferers,
and it can be proved that the number of people of all apes who suffer from Catarrh or from its
correlated maladies and troubles are simply legion, as millions of earth’s inhabitants are gripped by
the nose with this disease, which is one of the most unpleasant of all the ailments which afflict man-
kind. Chronic Catarrh has indeed a tight grip upon its victim, for it makes itself felt in hundreds of
ways. It grips the nose and causes Polypus, or Post-Nasal Growth, and decay of the bones of the
nose and surrounding tissues. It grips the Eustachian tube and inner ear, and causes frightful head
noises and deafness. It grips the throat, and causes diseased and enlarged tonsils. It grips the
uvula, and makes it soft and too long, causing a tickling in the throat, with constant cough. It grips
the vocal cords, and causes hoarseness and a constant hawking-up of phlegm or “trying to clear the
throat.” It grips the larynx, and causes it to become inflamed and painful. Catarrh also grips the
bronchial tubes; and causes Bronchial Catarrh and Bronchitis. It grips the nerves of the lungs, and
causes Asthma. It grips the entire lung structure, and causes rapid Consumption.
It causes deposits of foul matter in the cavities about and around the eyes, and causes many
cases of Eye Troubles, Ulcers on the Eyes, Cataracts, Granulations, and Blindness. It also causes
Neuralgia and makes the teeth decay. Sufferers who are gripped by the nose by this disease are
nearly always what is termed “mouth breathers” —they nearly always have the mouth open, finding
it hard to breathe through the nose. Anyone will feel convinced how injurious to the general health
Catarrh is, when it is understood that all the air that is breathed passes over the parts where the foul
deposits are located, and in this way the poison is carried into the blood through the air cells of the
lungs. The lung cells present a surface of over a thousand square feet to the air, and in this way is
Autotoxemia, or self-poisoning, brought about. The Catarrhal slimes also find their way down into
the stomach, duodendum, liver, intestines, and bladder, and in that way extend Catarrh to the
internal organs.
By a glance at the above Illustrations it will be seen that to be gripped by the nose in
the way indicated is quite a serious affair. In Figure 1 can be seen the cavities in the face, nose and
head subject to Catarrh. The lines indicate how the impure secretions filter downwards to the
throat, bronchial tubes and lungs, as shown in Figure 2. It will be noted, too, how deafness is brought
about, owing to these impure secretions collecting about the inner ear and eustachian tubes, which,
only too often, results in head noises and total loss of hearing.
Eye Troubles also are caused by the Catarrhal matter collecting above and around
the eyes, which can easily be understood by a reference to the illustration (Figure 1).
In Figure 3is shown a Post-Nasal Growth, or Polypus (see Letter B). It looks small enough,
certainly, but these growths are quite large enough to grip by the nose any number of sufferers. All
these growths have their origin in those constitutional causes which induce Catarrh.
In Figure 4 are seen the tonsils in an enlarged state (denoted by Letter C). Enlargement of
the tonsils can only exist in sufferers who are gripped by the nose—that is, who suffer more or less
from Catarrh.
To attempt a cure of Polypus, or of any Post-Nasal Growth, by a surgical
operation, by cauterisation, or by any other merely local treatment, is a mistake.
To operate for enlarged tonsils and growths in the throat is also a mistake. The reason is that,
as all growths have their origin in constitutional and morbid matters in the system, a merely local
treatment, whether surgical or otherwise, cannot effect a cure. This fact is in daily evidence, and
proved by the numerous recurrences of growths which doctors had cut out.
NOW, AS TO A CURE.—This is absolutely and positively assured
by the new and natural methods of treatment adopted by Mr. H. E.
KUGELMANN. By his system of treatment no operation is necessary
for Polypi or Post-Nasal Growths, nor for Enlarged Tonsils, nor for
any other form of Catarrh or disease, as his treatment gets down
to the constitutional cause of the disease, thus ensuring a perma-
nent cure. Sworn certificates of any number of chronic Catarrhal
sufferers can be produced to prove that Mr. KUGELMANN’S method
of treatment is most wonderfully successful and permanent.
It has been found that in giving evidence it is necessary for the deponent to swear to the truth
of his assertions, such oath rendering him liable to imprisonment if false. Now, this is exactly what
has been done by those many thousands of persons cured by Mr. Kugelmann of every supposed-to-be-
incurable disease on earth ; they have sworn to the truth of the statements they have made, so that
all may know that they are true. On this account most especial attention is directed to the fact that
there are innumerable cases of deeply-seated, obscure, intractable, and supposed-to-be-incurable
diseases, which baffle the whole medical world, and yet such cases are now being readily cured in a
permanent manner by the new and right-ahead-of-date methods of Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN, the
Famous Consulting Herbal Practitioner and Gifted Diagnostician, of 14-16 Queen-street, Melbourne ;
Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane. A confidential consultation with him will convince any sufferer that
he completely understands the deeply-seated causes of disease, and, what is still of more importance
he knows how to cure it. Mr. Kugelmann may be consulted as per list of dates on the following page’
and chronic sufferers ought to avail themselves of the opportunity to obtain his exceptionally skilful
advice and treatment. He possesses the gift of intuitive diagnosis, and can tell patients what is the
cause of their disease, without being in any way informed by them, and will give a straight-out opinion
as to whether the case is curable or not. If preferred, a legal agreement is entered into for a
complete cure for a lump sum in each instance.
ALL CONSULTATIONS ARE CHARGED A FEE OF lOs., and, after
obtaining his diagnosis, patients can have treatment or not as they
please. If the treatment is taken the fee charged is deducted. Mr.
Kugelmann has effected hundreds and thousands of the most remark-
able cures in modern history, and has practised for over 35 years.
By Mr. Kugelmann’s method of treatment operations are not
necessary, as Tumors, Growths, Cysts, Gall Stone, Appendicitis,
Fistula, Hip Disease, and all internal morbid formations, are cured
and dissolved painlessly, Movable or Floating Kidney and internal
displacements of every kind are cured without resorting to the pain
and danger of operations. if unable to consult him personally,
write full description of your case, AND ENCLOSE POSTAL NOTE
FOR 10s. FEE, and address it to him to his Head Office, 14-16 Queen
Street, MELBOURNE, on receipt of which a diagnosis will be sent
at earliest possible moment.
Mr. KUGELMANN has been consulting in Aus-
tralia for over 38 years, and at regular intervals
consults at his permanent offices in the different
capitals of Australia and the more important
provincial towns of the various States, which
enables chronic sufferers who prefer to consult him
personally, the opportunity of doing so. Schedule
of Consulting Dates for the next Four Months
will he found on next page.
Read the following sworn Certificates of
Cases Cured after all Medical Men
had failed to benefit them
Gripped by Deadly Catarrh
Sworn Evidence of John Robert
Bartholomew, of Sydney.
Hereditary 15 Years’ Chronic Cartarrh
Cured. Doctors Failed.
As long as I can remember I have been a sufferer.
Even as a little child I was an invalid, and my mother
was very doubtful if she would be able to rear me. I
generally suffered from a cough and headache. The
matter inducing the cough appeared to be in the throat.
The doctors could not find out what was the matter with
me, but expressed the opinion that my lungs were weak.
Each year as I grew older I became worse ; in fact, during
my youth, I was in a shockingly thin and emaciated con-
dition, with hollow eyes and projecting cheek bones. I
was fearfully wasted and thin, owing to constant cough-
ing, of which I bad at times violent attacks, during some
of which it was thought that I would die. I never knew
what it was to obtain a proper night’s rest, consequently,
in the mornings I was always wearied out. My head was
never free from pain, a dull, heavy ache ; in fact, I could
hardly hold my head up. I was taken to the Sydney
Hospital, where I remained for some time. 1 suf-
fered continually from inveterate nasal catarrh, which
appeared to be the cause of the throat trouble,
and occasioned a great amount of dizziness. My
father suffered in the same way as I was afflicted, and my
grandfather before him. I began to believe that my case
was incurable, because hereditary, and that only death
would relieve me of my troubles. Altogether, I consulted
a number of medical men of known repute, with the
result that their treatment only left me in a worse and
more weakened condition. I tried everything I could
think of in the hope of getting only temporary relief, but
all proved useless. I was terribly distressed when I
arrived at this hopeless termination of my efforts to get
well; in fact, my feelings were too miserable and wretched
for me to find words to describe them. At this stage I
had the rare good luck to hear of Mr. Kugelmann, and to
obtain his treatment for my case, i After I had
been treated by him fcr a short time, the incessant
hacking cough became much easier, and gradually
disappeared altogether, and the throat greatly im-
proved. I was now enabled to sleep at night, a blessing
which had been denied me for years. Indeed, I never can
remember obtaining a good night’s rest until I obtained
it through Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment. Some time after
commencing, his treatment caused a catarrhal abscess to
break in the head, with the result that the relief was
wonderful. The running from the nose, resulting from
the disagreeable catarrh, soon vanished, and the constant
headache, which I had all my lifetime, disappeared. My
appetite became good, and my sleep sound ; I became
bright and cheerful, and put on flesh rapidly, gaining
over a stone in weight, and have been completely cured
for three years. I should be very glad to see this pub-
lished for general information.
(Signed) ROBERT BARTHOLOMEW.
Declared at Sydney this 3rd day of February, 1899,
before me.
(Signed) R. FORSYTH, J.P.
Please note present address: 34 Philip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Chronic Catarrh Cured. Doctors Failed.
Wallaroo, S.A., November, 1897.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann,
Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir,—For over two (2) years I was under treat-
ment by one of the leading doctors in Adelaide, and also
elsewhere, and I was pronounced by them to be incur-
able. I was suffering from chronic catarrh of the head
and also chronic dyspepsia. After having taken a great
deal of medicines and drugs of various kinds I found I
was getting worse each day. I therefore abandoned the
doctor’s treatment. About eighteen (18) months ago I
was persuaded to try your treatment, and I am thankful
to say that after treatment by your method I feel quite
a different woman, and am now able to attend to my
household duties, which I was quite unable to do before
you cured me. I pen these lines to thank you for your
treatment, and also to state that you are quite at liberty
to use this letter if it is of any use to you. I shall be glad
to give any information concerning my case to anyone
who may be suffering as I was.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) (Mrs.) A. A. JEFFRIES.
Nine Years’ Chronic Heart Disease and
Nasal Catarrh Cured. Doctors Failed.
Tungamah, Victoria,
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, 7/11/1900.
Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —You are at liberty to publish the following
facts concerning the remarkable cure of my case by you
some 15 years ago, as I consider a thorough cure like
mine, which has stood the test of so many years, cannot
be too widely known. I had been a great sufferer from a
number of ailments for a very long time indeed. I tried
a lot of medicines, and kept getting worse and worse.
I suffered distressingly from difficult breathing and palpi-
tation of the heart, and great pain at the back of the
head, and between the shoulders and across the stomach.
In fact, I was full of pains, from head to foot, and could
not retain any food on the stomach. I dreaded
the thought of sleep, as it never afforded me
any rest or relief. My liver was badly dis-
eased, and I suffered from an internal displacement,
and also from nasal catarrh and catarrh of the bronchial
tubes. I had consulted several doctors previously to
communicating with you in 1885, but none of them did
me any good whatever. In fact, one of them told me
he could do nothing for me at all, as mine was too
complicated a case, and he recommended me to go to a
skilful Melbourne doctor, as my only chance was to
go under an operation. I declined this, as I thought I
would rather die than be operated on. In this sad condi-
tion I wrote to you in Melbourne, and in your reply you
accurately told me what my disease, etc., was, and that
you could cure me. I, therefore, began your treatment,
and very soon began to improve. You told me it would
take some time to effect a complete cure, and so I
persevered with your Herbal remedies and your dietary
instructions, and finally became quite well again, and as
strong and hearty as ever in my life before—in fact,
a new creature, thanks to you skilful treatment, for
which, as the years roll on, I am ever increasingly
thankful. —Yours, gratefully,
(Signed) (Mrs.) HANNAH KREECK.
Declared this 7th day of November, 1900, before me.—
(Signed) J. M. WARD, J.P.
Gripped By Deafness.
Dreadful Head Noises.
Spinal and Brain Malady Cured.
Doctors Failed.
I met with a severe accident some time ago, and the
only wonder is that I was not killed at once. I was
standing on the top of a waggon load of hay, when the
horses suddenly started forward, and I was thrown
backwards out of the waggon, falling on my head and
shoulder. Fortunately my neck was not broken, but it
was seriously injured, and, as I afterwards learned, the
spinal cord was badly affected. The agony of it was
more than I can find words to express, and my head was
as though fixed in a vyce, and I could not move it
either right or left. Then, also, a terrible headache
came on, which was continuous day and night. It
never left me, and it was like an engine working in my
skull all the time. There was a tremendous noise in my
head, and I felt so confused I could hardly think, and
was so distressingly giddy that if I ventured to look
upwards the earth would seem to give way under me;
I reeled, and nearly fell to the ground. In the circum-
stances I obtained scarcely any rest. My whole nervous
system was upset, and I used to turn restlessly in bed,
longing to get to sleep, and in the morning, when I
got up out of bed, everything would seem to go black
before my eyes. It was a terrible time ; I even began
to lose all memory. I had the treatment of the best
medical expert in Brisbane, and although he gave me the
greatest attention, I got no better, but rather worse, and
then, having- been told of a very bad case that was cured
by Mr. Kugelmann, I went to him at Brisbane. His treat-
ment soon made a difference in me. It was at once sue:
cessful. Ido not know how it was, but as soon as he
saw me he seemed to know what was the matter and just
how to treat me. I felt I was in safe hands, which made
me feel quite cheerful, as I had grown quite despondent
during my long and obstinate illness. Well, day by day
I improved under his treatment, and soon the pains and
noises left me, until at last I could move my head in any
direction without inconvenience, and at last I was quite
free from pain of any kind, rny neck and back being as
strong as ever, my nerves perfectly firm, and my head
quite clear and capable as before m3' illness, and I wish
these facts to be published.
(Signed) W. BENNETT, Nudgee (Q.).
Declared at Brisbane this 9th day of May, 1899, before
me.—(Signed) THOMAS MORROW, J.P.
Four Year’s Chronic Deafness.
Awful Head Noises Cured.
I suffered from deafness for over four years. I could
not detect the ticking of the clock unless pressed close to
the ear, when a faint, blurred noise would be perceptible.
I suffered from a tremendous humming, beating, or burr-
ing noise in the ears. The noise would often get louder
and louder, like an engine puffing. This went on for over
four years, and at last I became “ stone ” deaf. I got no
relief from any treatment or medicines. At this stage I
consulted Mr. Kugelmann on one of his visits to Brisbane.
He put me under a course of treatment w r hich completely
cured the awful head noises, and thoroughly restored my
hearing. I can ever since hear perfectly. Anyone wish-
ing to know more about this marvellous cure of my case,
please call on me.
(Signed) THOMAS SHANAHAN.
Latrobe-terrace, Paddington, Brisbane, Q.
Sworn befare me, at Brisbane, this sixth day of Novem-
ber, 1901.
(Signed) W. J. TROUTON, J.P., chemist, Queen-street,
Brisbane.
4.
Gripped By Epileptic Fits.
Fits Cured near Toowoomba.
Crow’s Nest, Queensland, 15/11/04.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner,
Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —It is now about four years since I became
afflicted with Epileptic Fits. The first seizure I had took
place while I was in church on Sunday morning. I had a
very bad attack, as I was in an unconscious state of
mind until the following morning; in fact, my friends
thought I would pass away without coming to again.
After I regained consciousness I was in quite a dazed
condition. The dazed feeling kept up for some time.
I then consulted a doctor in Toow'oomba, and he pre-
scribed for me. I took his treatment regfularty, but the
fits recurred seven times altogether, and after a while the
attacks left me for some time, only to, unfortunately,
return. At this time I was strongly recommended to
consult you about my case, which I did the next time
you came to Toowoomba, and after you examined me
you informed me that I had epilepsy or fits, and that you
could cure me permanently. I therefore decided to
undergo your treatment, and as a result have received a
complete cure and genuine restoration to health. Only
recently I have gone through some trying mental expe-
riences, and yet have remained quite well. I trust this
statement may be the means of making some other
sufferers as thankful as I am, for it is truly a wonderful
blessing to be cured of such an affliction.
(Signed) ARTHUR RICHARD ASKIN.
Sworn before me, at Toowoomba, Q., this 15th No-
vember, 1904.
(Signed) ROBERT REN WICK, J.P.
25 Years’ Epileptic Fits Cured. Many
Doctors Failed.
Sworn at Sydney, N.S.W.,
December, 1899.
At 13 years of age I began to be afflicted with Epileptic
Fits, and was a great sufferer for over 25 3’ears. When I
had the attacks I used to froth at the mouth; and some-
times bite the tongue, also lips. I tried numbers of doc-
tors, and tried, also, medicine from London, but during
all those long, weary 25 years I got no good from any of
them. I passed a most wretched and miserable existence,
and was worn to a skeleton ; then I heard of Mr. Kugel-
mann, and consulted him on one of his visits to Murtoa.
He at once told me the cause of the fits, and said he could
cure me. I there and then agreed, and went under his
treatment, and I have not had one single fit since, but
ever since enjoyed the best of health. I hope this will be
well published.
(Signed) (Mrs) D. M‘LEAN, Goyura, Vie.
NOTE. —The proof of the permanent nature of this re-
markable cure is in the fact that the fits have not returned
during the past 14 years. Doctors cannot cure Epilepsy
at all, and the Bromides and other Drugs and Poisons
which they prescribe to try and prevent the attacks only
ruin the system.
Gripped by Chronic Asthma.
18 Years’ Chronic Asthma in Eudunda.
Doctors Failed.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from chronic asthma of a very bad
form for over 18 years before consulting you. It came
on after a very bad cold, which I got at Eudunda, and
which I could not get rid of. I consulted a doctor at
Kapunda, and he treated me. At first I got a little relief,
but soon I was again as bad as before. Then I consulted
a doctor at Eudunda, who treated me for asthma for two
whole 3 r ears. He told me that no doctor can cure asthma,
and that he could only relieve me. I then left him, and
tried a doctor at Tanunda. He examined me and said he
could cure me, so I stuck to his treatment for three years,
and took his medicines during all that time, which cost
me a great deal of money. At the end of the three years
the Tanunda doctor said he could not cure me ; also that
one lung was half gone, and said that no one else could,
as doctors had no cure for asthma ; so that I got com-
pletely disheartened, and gave up all hope of ever being
cured. I was very bad with hemorrhage from the
lungs, and for many years I could not go to bed, but
had to sit up all night to get my breath. If I attempted
to lie down I used to get nearly suffocated. Altogether,
I passed 18 most wretched years of misery, and at last I
was greatly reduced in weight and strength, and was
quite unable to walk more than a quarter of a mile or so.
For, if I attempted to walk, the cough became so severe
that it nearly killed me. I was a complete wreck, and
my friends all thought that I could not live long—that
was the state I was in—when about seven years ago I
heard of 3'our treatment, and saw your advertisement in
the Adelaide German paper, and decided to go and con-
sult you in Adelaide, which I did, and was surprised to
find that you at once knew I had asthma, without my
saying anything about it at all, and what the state of my
lungs was ; also, that you were certain you could cure
me, so I began yrnur herbal treatment there and then. I
am so pleased to be able to state that within one month
all the bleeding of the lungs ceased, and the soreness of
the lungs went away ; and at the end of the first three
months my lungs felt fine, and the lung which the doctor
at Tanunda said was half gone was now as well as ever ;
also the breathing became much easier, and I could sleep
much better. In this way I gradually progressed under
your treatment until I became completely cured, and all
the cough, phlegm, &c., completely left mu, and I got as
good wind as ever in my life before ; and I can do all sorts
of harvest work like any other man, so that, seeing I have
now been cured by you some six years or more, it is high
time sufferers knew that asthma in its worst form can be
cured ; for I am sure that if such a bad case as mine was
can be cured, so can others. I hope that this will be pub-
lished far and wide.—Yours most thankfully,
(Signed) F. W. ECKERT.
Declared before me at Eudunda, in the State of South
Australia, this 23rd day of February, 1905.—(Signed) F.
W. Palch, J.P.


22 Tears’ Chronic Asthma Cured. Seven
Doctors Failed.
4lead the following’ extract of sworn certificate:—
I suffered from Asthma in a chronic and aggravated
form for no les3 than 22 years. I was every year laid up
m bed for considerable periods of time. I was attended
by seven doctors, but they one and all declared that my
case was an incurable one, and all that I could hope for
would be some temporary improvement now and again.
I took any amount of medicine prescribed for me by these
medical men, but with no good effect. The attacks were
of a violent, and often of a dangerous, nature. Some-
times I would go black in the face in my struggles for
breath, and at other times I would fall on the floor in
half-conscious state. It is a wonder I did-not succumb
during one of the attacks. I was very seriously reduced in
health. I was so weak I could not w alk across the road,
and I could not even sit a horse, but was forced, through
sheer want of strength, to lean forward on the animails
neck. When Mr. Kugelmann saw me he didn’t do
much talking. Mr. Kugelmann informed me that if
I faithfully carried out his treatment, he would cure
me. Now, here comes the remarkable thing. From
the commencement of Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment I
had no further attacks, and very shortly I was completely
cured, just as he told me. But a few months ago I could
hardly walk a dozen yards, now I can walk from dawn to
dark. Thus, after 22 years of physical suffering, I have
been placed upon my feet again by Mr. Kugelmann—a
new man. Miraculous it may appear, but Mr. Kugel-
mann did it. Now, I should like to say a word to anyone
suffering from Asthma. Your case may be a bad one—so
was mine. You may be perfectly hopeless—so was I.
Perhaps you hesitate about seeking further advice—so
did I. But I sought advice in the end. I put an end to
my hesitation, and was cured. You have the same
opportunity. You may be cured also.
I, JOHN TUCKER, of Enoggera, near Brisbane, in the
State of Queensland, do solemnly and sincerely deflate
as follows That the foregoing account of my illness and
cure by Mr. Kugelmann is true ; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1867.
(Signed) JOHN TUCKER.
Taken and declared before me, at Brisbane, this twenty-
second day of November, 1904. (Signed) W. J. TROU'.ON,
J.P., chemist, Queen-street, Brisbane.
I have known Mr. John Tucker for many years, and
can fully endorse what he says concerning his severe
illness and cure by Mr. Kugelmann, as above set out.
(Signed) JAMES ROSSI.
Witness to John Tucker’s and James Rossi’s signatures.
(Signed) J. F. MILLINGTON, journalist, West End,
Brisbane.
Sixteen Tears’ Asthma. Remarkable
Cure. Doctors Failed.
I suffered from Chronic Asthma 16 years. My lungs
were choked with phlegm and slime. I tried the usual
remedies without result. I then' consulted the best
doctor in Horsham, and tried his treatment for a long
time. It never did me any good. I then consulted a
well-known doctor in Creswiek. I stuck to his treatment
about a year. I gradually got worse the whole time. He
said my right lung was completely gone. I then con-
sulted Mr. Kugelmann, at the White Hart Hotel, Hors-
ham, and was surprised to find he knew the instant he
saw me that I had Asthma. So I began his treatment at
once, and by it I have been completely cured. It is now
over four years ago, and I have remained quite well ever
since.
(Signed) JOHN B. WHITE.
Blackheath, via Jung Jung, near Horsham, Victoria,
4th November, 1899.
Sworn this 4th day of November, 1899, before me.
(Signed) JAMES CARROLL, J.P.
Note.—Present address, Gunnedah, N.H.W.
30 Tears’ Incurable Asthma Cured.
13 Doctors Failed.
THIRTY YEARS I SUFFERED from ASTHMA of the
very worst form. I resided in Sydney when it first came
on. Doctors failed to do me any good whatever. I then
went to an inland climate, viz., to Orange, New South
Wales, a most healthy climate. I continued to get worse
and worse. Six doctors treated me at Orange ; two of
them at one time gave me only ten minutes to live. The
Rev. John Caton ministered to me in what every one
supposed were my last moments. In all 13 doctors
treated me without success. After suffering more than
mortal man can tell for over 30 years, I tried your treat-
ment last year, and I feel now 30 years a younger man.
I can give the names of all the doctors, if required.
(Signed) FRANK FRIPP, Storekeeper.
Bellevue-parade, Hurstville, N.S.W., 24th October,
1902.
VERIFICATION.—I have known Mr. Frank Fripp for
over 30 years, and well remember how ill he was at
Orange, and can vouch for the truthfulness of his state-
ment. I recollect his having one attack lasting 21 weeks
incessantly, and I went for a second doctor to hold a con-
sultation. I, as a commercial traveller, call on Mr. Fripp
every two weeks. He appears to have now the best of
health ; not any signs of asthma about him.
(Signed) JOHN A. WOODWARD.
Sworn before me at Kogarah, this 24th day of October,
1902. (Signed) P. HERMAN, J.P.
» .
Chronic Locomotor Ataxia
Cured.
Doctors Failed.
I had a numbed feeling at base of brain, and pain and
numbed feeling down the spine and in the legs, which
increased at sundown. The pains were at one time con-
stant for three months. During that period I scarcely
slept at all. I tried one doctor after another, and
gradually got worse the whole time, becoming more and
more helpless. I also tried the Prince Alfred Hospital;
no good. Finally, I lost all use of my legs, and fell in the
street, and had to be carried home, and found that I had
no power in the lower part of my body or legs. A medi-
cal man whom we sent for at this time pronounced it use-
less to treat me, as I was quite incurable. Hearing, how-
ever, of a case of Paralysis which Mr. Kugelmann had
cured at Goulburn, I decided to try his treatment, and it
took three men to carry me to his consulting room from
the cab. I stuck to his treatment, and after some
months’ steady treatment began to improve, and finally
got quite cured, and have been perfectly well ever since,
having regained complete use of my once-useless legs and
body. (Signed) JOHN THOMAS,
Mulgoa, Penrith, N.S.W., October 7,1901.
Signed before me—THOMAS DAVIS, J.P.
♦
Gripped by Tumors and
Internal Growths.
Fight Years’ chronic Goitre and Tumor
cured.
Doctors Failed.
Moyhu South, Victoria, 3/8/1900.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN.’
Dear Sir, —I have often thought of sending you a testi-
monial setting out the facts of the wonderful cure you
made of my case about five years ago, and I think I have
waited quite long enough now' to be sure of the permanent
nature of the cure. It is about twelve years ago that I
began to notice a tumor growung in my throat, which
began to give me a good deal of uneasiness, especially so,
as I soon afterwards found I had also another tumor or
growth internally. I had medical advice and treatment
in Wangaratta ; the doctor said I had Goitre and Internal
Tumor. The internal tumor or growth grew larger and
larger continually, until it became of an immense size.
My health gradually broke down completely, and my
appetite left me. I was in great pain day and
night, and could find no relief or cure for my
sufferings, and my heart became extremely weak,
and my sleep indifferent; in fact, I became a com-
plete wreck of my former self. The doctors wished
to operate on me, as they thought nothing else
could be done. However, I was recommended to con-
sult you on one of your visits at Wangaratta, when I
was most pleased to find that you were able to diagnose
my complaint most accurately, w'ithout my telling you
what was the matter with me, and as you assured me
you could effect a complete cure without any operation,
I gladly began your treatment, and steadily continued it
for a number of months, and I am most thankful to be
able to state that the Goitre, w'hich before your treat-
ment had become very large, gradually became smaller
each week, and the internal tumor also was, by your
wonderful treatment, gradually dissolved. My general
health vastly improved in every way, and by a patient
continuance of your treatment I finally became quite
well again, and the Goitre and Internal Tumor both
vanished. All this happened about'five years ago, so I
think it is about time I let people know about it.
(Signed) (Mrs.) MARY ELLEN SMITH.
Declared at Moyhu this third day of August, 1900, be-
fore me —(Signed) AND. BYRNE, J.P., Northern Baili-
wick, Victoria.
Eighteen Years’ Bleeding Tumor cured.
Seven Operations Failed.
Riverton, South Australia, February 19, 1904.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —I began to suffer about 13 years ago with
internal troubles. I suffered from internal hemorrhage
in a very severe form. I went to a chemist before con-
sulting any medical man, but he nearly poisoned me. I
then consulted a doctor at Riverton, who said I was
suffering from severe internal troubles. After treating
me for some time, he sent me to a private hospital, where
I was attended to by one of the leading doctors in Ade-
laide, the result of which was that my ailments did not
receive any lasting benefit. The Adelaide doctor said
that I had no internal tumor at this time. I went home
to Riverton, but kept exceedingly weak ; in fact, 1 kept
getting w eaker, and the bleeding again came on. I then
went to Adelaide again to a celebrated doctor of that city,
who examined me and said that I had an internal growth,
and so long as a particle of it was left it would grow,
and said it must be operated on. That was 12 months
after I first became ill, and I W'ent under no less than
three operations at this period. I left Adelaide and
went home, and was well enough for a week or two,
and then I was bad as ever. I lost enormous quantities
of blood ; in fact, the wonder was that I did not bleed to
death. In spite of all the treatment I had I kept getting
worse. I went under no less than four operations during
the ensuing 12 months, but the bleeding kept on inter-
mittently, draining my life away. The doctor told my
brother-in law that I y.’culd never be well, because a cure
was impossible. Altogether I underwent seven operations
at the hands of the doctors, and I became weaker after
each successive operation ; in fact, I became so weak
that I despaired of life itself, and considered myself
beyond the reach of all human aid. It was at this stage
that I heard of your treatment; in fact, 1 was ill in bed
when my eldest daughter drew my attention to a testi-
monial in one of your books that had come some time pre-
viously. I was much impressed with the number of re-
markable cures effected in cases that seemed worse than
my own ; therefore, as soon as I could, I consulted you in
Adelaide, and I must say I was much pleased with the
diagnosis you made of my case, which was so different
to what I had been used to, and on receiving an assur-
ance that you could effect a complete cure without
operating, I commenced your treatment, the result of
which was that I soon began to improve, and, although
the bleeding did not leave me at once, it gradually les-
sened, and after some time completely.ceased. It is now
about five years ago since your treatment effected a
complete cure of my case, and as; so many years have
elapsed, and. I still remain in the best of health, I feel
sure that I am justified in stating that a lasting cure has
been effected, and I consider it only right, for the benefit
of humanity, that a treatment like this, which can effect
a cure of internal growths, tumors, etc., without opera-
tions, should be widely known. I am, therefore, desirous
of having these facts published amongst your numerous
testimonials.
(Signed) (Mrs.) MARY JANE MITCHELL.
Declared before me, this eighth day of March, 19C4.
(Signed) FRED. NORTON, J.P.
Ten Years’ Chronic Tumor cored.
Doctors Failed.
9, Union-street, South Melbourne, 27/l/’O5.
Twenty-seven years ago I was thrown out of a trap in
Colac into a culvert. I was picked up, and remained
unconscious for three hours. The doctor w'as sent for,
and said that two ribs were broken, and that he could
do nothing for me on account of my then condition.
I was taken home, and was in bed for three months,
being attended by the same doctor during that time,
and got so far better that I was able to go about. I
then went to Melbourne, and consulted another doctor.
He examined me, and seemed puzzled to know what was
wrong. I was very bad, with excruciating internal pains.
The doctor wanted to operate on several occasions, and
on one occasion he brought an instrument to stick right
through me ; but this I would not allow. He thought I
had Enlargement of the Liver, and treated me for same ;
but I derived no benefit from his treatment. Twelve
months or more after the accident I found a small lump
on my right side, and I pointed this out to the doctor.
He examined me well, and confirmed his previous state-
ment—namely, that it was Enlargement of the Liver.
The lump gradually grew larger and larger ; the doctor
gave me plasters, liniments, and medicines without num-
ber; but still the lump continued steadily to increase in
size, and at regular intervals I got acute attacks of
great pain, and used to frequently faint right off. The
doctor ascribed these attacks, which lasted for some
time, to weakness. The lump grew' until it was about
as large as a man’s head, and used to throb and pain
dreadfully. I continued under this doctor’s treatment
for nine years ; but at last I got so bad that I went to
the Homoeopathic Hospital. The doctors examined me,
and they also said it was Enlargement of the Liver.
The medicines given me while there did me no good
whatever. Then one day I received one of Mr. Kugel-
man’s pamphlets, and there and then decided to con-
sult him, which I did, and without any hesitation he
informed me that it was a Tumor, and that he could cure
me without operating. I began his treatment, and
steadily persevered with it as directed. At first I did not
notice much of a difference, either in the size of the
Tumor or the pains I experienced. Indeed, at times I
was very ill, and thought I would die ; but about 19
months ago the Tumor W'as dissolved, and broke, just as
Mr. Kugelmann said it w'ould, and it all came away from
me. Thanks to his skilful treatment, the Tumor has
entirely disappeared, the pain has left me altogether, and
I feel perfectly cured. lam deeply grateful to Mr.
Kugelmann for his kindness in restoring me again to
health, after so many long years of suffering, and I avail
myself of every opportunity that occurs to tell other suf-
ferers of his wonderful skill.
(Signed) (Mrs.) M. PRESTON.
Declared before me at South Melbourne this 31st day of
January, 1905. (Signed) H. O. JONES, J.P.
4
Gripped by Hydatids.
Lung Disease and Hydatids cured.
Doctors Failed.
Edmington, N.S.W., 21st. December, 1896.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir.—l am sending you this statement concerning
the cure of my wife. Four years ago she W'as taken ill
with pains in the right shoulder and in the back of the
left lung. We had to consult a doctor, and after diag-
nosing the case, he stated it W'as pleurisy. She began to
cough very badly. She continued his treatment for some
time without any material benefit; in fact, I may state
that on and off for about three years she w'as under
legally-qualified medical treatment. All this time, I may
mention, she was getting gradually worse. The cough
was most distressing, and hemorrhage frequent. I also
had about this time the advice of a doctor in Parramatta.
He considered there Was consumption, and after treating
her for some time he ordered her away inland. This I
was unable to carry out through w’ant of means. She
took large quantities of cod liver oil and emulsion, by the
doctor’s orders, and these and the other medicines she
took did not do her the slightest good whatever. We
were nearly at our wits’ end to know what to
do, when one of your books of sw'orn certificates
of cases you had cured came to hand. I immedi-
ately W’rote to you, describing her symptoms as nearly
as I could, and was very pleased to find by the reply you
sent that you felt absolutely confident that you could
effect a cure in her case. I had confidence in your ability
from the letter and book we had, although we had never
seen you, and I at once sent to you for a supply of your
Herbal Treatment. After my wife had taken it for about
six weeks, to our great surprise the treatment brought
away a quantity of hydatids and hydatid cysts from off
the lungs, and, lo and behold ! the whole mystery was
explained at once. After this, of course, she began to
mend rapidly, and I then brought her to see you in
Sydney on one of your visits to the Grosvenor Hotel, and
obtained further treatment from you, since which she
has got on wonderfully well, and has been completely
cured. I think it is only fair to other sufferers and
humanity in general that cases like this should be uni-
versally known, so that other sufferers may know where
to obtain the same benefit, and an absolute cure of their
diseases I am, dear sir, yours very gratefully, (Signed)
W. T. FRANKS.
Ermington, Parramatta River, N.S.W.
Taken this 21st day of December, 1896, before me.
(Signed) JAMES SPUR WAY, J.P.
♦
Seven years’ chronic Catarrh of Eyes
cured. Eyesight restored after doctors
had failed. No operation.
Thomas J. Lamble, Esq., Professor of Music, residing at
Longmore-street, Albert Park, Victoria, declared on oath,
December 13, 1899 About seven years ago I found that
my eyesight was gradually leaving me. At last I could
not read the large print of the Argcs in the leading
articles. I consulted an optician, arid had glasses made
specially. In six or eight months my eyesight got so bad
that, the glasses were of no use. I consulted another
optician, and he tested my sight, and found that I had
cataract in both eyes, and that I would go totally blind,
first in one eye and then in the other; and this was also
the verdict of a third optician. I then consulted several
well-known doctors for the eyes, all skilled oculists. They
confirmed the opticians’ opinions as to! the cataract, and
said that nothing could be done but to operate, and said
that if the operation was a success I woiild regain my
sight, but if not, I would be blind for life. After this, I
heard of Mr. Kugelmann. I consulted him, and he tested
my sight and examined the eyes, and he agreed as to the
cataract, but said he could effect a cure without operating,
and would do it by removing the cause which produced
it, and said that he had found out what causes cataract
to form, and explained to me fully, and in a most logical
way, the cause and cure of the whole trouble. I began
his treatment, with the result that not only have I re-
gained my sight completely and permanently, and can
now read the smallest print without glasses, but my
general health improved wonderfully.
(Signed) T. J. LAMBLE.
Gripped by “Incurable” Hip
Disease.
Remarkable cure of Hip Disease.
Chatsworth, Gympie, Queensland, March 19th, 1906.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN, Herbal Praotitioner.
Dear Sir, —I would like to add my testimonial to your
numerous and wonderful cures of chronic cases. About
four and a half years ago my little daughter, Catherine,
aged four years, began to walk lame on her right leg. I
immediately took her to a doctor at Gympie, who informed
me that it was only the result of growing pains, so I took
her home. About a month later she became worse, so I
took her to another doctor at Gympie, and he said it was
a case of hip disease, and that it was quite incurable. I
then put her in Gympie Hospital, and the doctors there
pronounced it to be a case of hip disease, and decided to
operate on her leg, which they did, making no less than
six cuts on the affected leg, thereby disfiguring the child
for life. There were no marks on the child before the opera-
tion, and no swelling, but afterwards she had soreswhich
discharged running matter, and complained of great pains
in her affected limb. She remained in the hospital for about
two years, during which time she became worse, until she
was nothing more than skin and bone. I was then told at
the Hospital that her case was incurable, and was advised
to send her to Brisbane to the home for incurables, which
I refused to do. Owing to the Hospital people insisting
on my removing the child, I took her home and w’as more
than shocked to see how her leg W'as cut about, and the
nasty wounds on it. I did the best I could for her for a
month or six weeks, when hearing of Mr. H. E. Kugel-
mann’s visit to Gympie, and the wonderful cures he had
effected, I decided to try the cure, and my daughter
commenced with his treatment in August, 1904. He
examined the child, and said at once that her case was
one of hip disease, and that he could effect a cure. When
the child began the treatment with Mr. H. E. Kugelmann
she was wearing a Hospital splint and could hardly
hobble about on it with crutches, and after six weeks’
treatment she began to walk without her crutches and
splint, and gradually became stronger, and her general
health also greatly improved, and at the end of sixteen
months she was completely cured and has remained well
ever since, and at present is walking a mile to school and
back every day, and never complains or says she is tired.
(Signed) (Mrs.) A. M. CISLOWSKI.
I, Annie Mary Cislowski, of Ohatsworth, Gympie, in the
State of Queensland, do hereby solemnly and sincerely
declare that I have read the above particulars hereunto
attached, and written by me, and the same contain a true
and faithful account of the illness and cure of my
daughter, Catherine Elizabeth Cislowski, by Mr. H. E.
Kugelmann s , and I make this solemn declaration conscien-
tiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
Oaths Act, 1867.
Signed and declared by the above-named Declarant, at
Gympie, this nineteenth day r of March, one thousand nine
hundred and six.—(Signed) (Mrs.) ANNIE MARY
CISLOWSKI.
Sworn this nineteenth day of March, one thousand nine
hundred and six. Before me—(Signed) JAMES FRASER,
Six Years’ Hip Disease. Hopeless Cripple
Cured. Doctors Failed.
Salisbury-street, North Unley, South Australia,
27th February, 1904.
To Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I send you tliis
sworn declaration respecting the cure you effected in the
case of my daughter. For six years she was suffering
from what the doctors called Hip Disease, and though
she was under their care all the time, and also twice
in the hospital, they failed to do her any good.
Hearing of the wonderful cures you had effected,
I thought I would call and see you, and I am
very glad I did, as you informed me the disease
was consumption of the leg, and that for a stated
sum you could cure her. I had such faith in what you
told me that I placed her under your care. And under
your treatment she was able to take her leg out of splints
in a week, and in six months discard the crutches, which
she had been obliged constantly to use. It is now over
three years since she finished your treatment, and her
health has been good. There has been no recurrence of
the complaint, and she is now both well and strong.—
Yours truly, (Signed) (Mrs.) EMILY NICHOLLS.
I, the undersigned, make this declaration of my own
free will, and declare the contents to be true and correct.
(Signed) (Mrs.) EMILY NICHOLLS.
Sworn before me at Adelaide this 27th day of February,
1904. (Signed) H. BONE, J.P.
♦
Four Years’ Chronic Rheumatism cured
in Brisbane—Doctors Failed.
I was stricken with Rheumatism, through getting wet
to the skin on a station out west in Queensland. I got
caught in a thunderstorm, and allowed my clothes to dry
on me. The next morning acute pains seized me in the
back and loins, and I became fairlv crippled. If I stooped
I could not straighten myself again without great pain
and difficulty. Lotions were useless, and the piercing
pain continued till the Rhematism became chronic. I
tried doctors’ treatment of various kinds, but to no pur-
pose. After four years of this state my attention was
called to Mr. Kugelmann’s ability to cure Rheumatism
and all Chronic Complaints, so I consulted him in Bris-
bane. I rapidly improved under his treatment, and got
completely cured. (Signed) HARRY DAUGHTREY.
News Agent, Stanley-street, South Brisbane, December
3, 1901.
Taken and declared before me this 3rd day of December,
1901. (Signed) GEORGE H. BLOCKSIDGE, J.P.,
President Brisbane Transit Commissioners.
MR. H. E. KUGELMANN,
CONSULTING HERBAL PRACTITIONER,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; 199 Clarence Street, SYDNEY;
77-81 Queen Street, BRISBANE; and 16-18 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE*
CONDUCES PERSONAL CONSULTATIONS AT HIS
VARIOUS LARGE ESTABLISHMENTS AS PER
SCHEDULE OF CONSULTING DATES
HEREUNDER
BRISBANE. Q. —At his Permanent Branch Offices (top floor, King, Cribb and King’s
Buildings), 77-79-81 Queen-street, opposite Town Hall, Brisbane, on—
WEDNESDAY, 20th June, 1906. Hours, from 10 a.m. until 5 p.m. Until
TUESDAY, 26th June, 1906. Hours, from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m.
GRAFTON, N.S.W. (Clarence River). —At Commercial Hotel, on—
FRIDAY, 6th July, 1906. Hours, from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m.
SATURDAY, 7th July, 1906. Hours, from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m.
MONDAY, 9th July, 1906. Hours, 9 a.m. until 6 p.m. ; and about every 16th week
thereafter.
LISIVIORE, N.S.W. —At Commercial Hotel, on—
THURSDAY, 12th July, 1906. Hours, from 9 a.m, until 8 p.m.
FRIDAY, 13th July, 1906. Hours, from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m.
SATURDAY, 14th July, 1906. Hours, from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m.; and about every 16th
week thereafter.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —At his Head Offices, 14 and 16 Queen-st., near Flinders-st., on—
MONDAY, 23rd July, 1906, until WEDNESDAY, Bth August, 1906.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —At his Permanent Branch Offices, upstairs, first floor, City Chambers,
Nos. 16 and 18 Pirie-street, near King William street, within 2 minutes of G.P.0., on left-hand
side of Pirie-street, on the following dates, viz.—
SATURDAY, 11th August, 1906, until FRIDAY, 17th August, 1906.
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —At his Permanent Branch Offices, 199 Clarence-street, between King
and Market streets, first floor, upstairs, on the following dates—
MONDAY, 10th September, 1906, until FRIDAY, 14th September, 1906.
£5OOO REWARD
\\ ILL BE PAID TO ANYONE WHO CAN PROVE THAT ANY OF THE CERTIFICATES
OF CASES CURED AND PUBLISHED BY MR. KUGELMANN ARE NOT GENUINE.
WHAT HAS BEEN CURED\
h
,Mr. KUGELMANN has successfully Cured, amongst others, the following diseases :
—Cancer, Blindness, Cataract of the Eye, Granulation of Eyes, Ulcers on Eyes, and
other Eye Diseases, Scrofula, Scurvy, Leprosy, Hip Disease, Disease of the Bones or
Caries, Eczema, Consumption of Lungs, Consumption of Throat, Fistula, Asthma,
Bronchitis, Induration of Lungs, Aneurism, Valvular Heart Disease, Angina
Pectoris, Enlargement of Heart, and all other Heart Diseases of every form, Enlarged Liver, Enlarged
Spleen, Congested Liver, Ulcerated Liver, Hypertrophy of the Liver, Anaemia, Hysteria, Epilepsy
(or Pits), Cholera, Dyspepsia (or Indigestion) in every form known, Palsy, Paralysis, Locomotor
Ataxia, Spinal Complaint, Gravel, Diabetes, and all Kidney Diseases, Baldness, Mania, Impaired
Vision and Memory, Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Fever, Sciatica, Varicose Veins, Ulcerated Sore
Legs, Goitre, Nasal Catarrh, Polypus, Post Nasal Growth, Jaundice, Chronic Constipation, Piles,
Gallstones, Chronic Affections of the Spleen, Chronic Headaches, Chronic Biliousness, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys, Granular Kidney, Fatty Kidney, Displacement of Kidneys, or
Floating Kidneys, Stone in Kidney, Stone in Bladder, Diureses, Dropsy, Enlargement of Joints,
Cystitis, Gastric Catarrh, Ulceration of the Stomach or Bowels, Catarrh of Stomach, Catarrh of
Intestines, and all other Internal Ulcerations, Chronic Gastritis, Tumors of the Stomach, Tumors of
the Liver, Cancerous Tumors, all Abnormal Growths, Internal Troubles and Displacements (without
operations or wearing of instruments). Appendicitis, Rupture, Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Loss of
Vigor and Vitality, Mercurial and Lead Poisoning, Sunstroke, Colic, Tape Worm and all other
Worms, Chronic Diarrhoea, St. Vitus’ Dance, Chorea, Insomnia or Sleeplessness, Organic Headache,
Tetanus or Lockjaw, Deafness, Noises in the Head or Ears, and all Diseases of the Nose, Ears,
Throat, Tonsils, Tuberculosis, etc.
(Signed) HERMANN EMIL KUGELMANN,
Registered Office, 14 and 16 Queen-street, Melbourne, and at 199 Clarence-street, Sydney.


ACTS GENTLY ON KIDNEYS. LIVER & BOWELS,
OVERCOMING HABITUAL CONSTIPATION.
m
OF
m§
An Agreeable
Mild end.
i 'Efficacious
s Laxative#
Gentle 1
Vet Prom pit-
in Action.
California
Syrup of Figs
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative and the
only true remedy for habitual constipation
and the many ills dependent on a weak
or inactive condition of the Kidneys,
Liver and Bowels. Pleasant to the
taste, and prompt, gentle and thorough
in action.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/3 and 1/11. Depot— 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
Australian Branch : 7 Barrack Street, Sydney. >
ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath, invaluable for all Toilet °urposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine -without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ħ
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt iSt., iSydsxey, cAgents .
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10!,S.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6t). per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
For* Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks, England.
* '
muihg
eve*
#
A WONDERFUL COMBINATION
MAGNIFYING MIRROR AND POCKET TELESCOPE
Very Useful for Examining Skin Blemishes* Ac.
Imitation Tortoise Shell Case
THIS ts a really remarkable
combination. Arranged as
shown in the illustration, it is ready
for use as an Opera Glass or
Telescope, giving a large field of
vision and wonderful distinct-
ueSB to distant objects.
By placing the large lens
over the mirror a degree
of magnification is ob-
tained that rereAls
every pore of the
skin and facilitates the eradication of blackheads, wrinKles and other
facial blemishes. Any defect of the complexion that cannot fco
detected by the magnifying mirror is invisible. It is very
valuable for observing the effect of face creams and complexion washes
upon the skin, as it will speedily disclose if the surface is hardened and
roughened and the pores enlarged. Every lady who values her beauty
should have one of these mirrors as a safeguard against serioas
injury to her complexion by deleterious toilet preparations. To intro-
duce it quickly we have fixed the price at 2/6, or exactly half what it
is selling for in Europe, and we will guarantee safe delivery free of cost.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
h
EQUAL TO A GOOD
OPERA GLASS
Only 2/6 oach
Posted safely to
any address.
THE BALLET GIRL
ĥ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
' LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate rekef.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The‘Scockportßemedy’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Goir-hs and Colds.
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ pro-, en efficacv
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, iec.
lIUC Transparent Cement
V# ”• 1 * fc— » for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTHART[CUM PILLS’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
ANNUAL
EARING SAL
NOW BEING HELD.
EVERY DEPARTMENT REPRESENTED.
Large Reductions throughout the Warehouse.
Price List and Catalogue on application.
Every care will be taken in execution of ORDERS BY POST.
NOW BEING HELD.
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.,
300-310 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
“ A.G.P.” gives some points from Germany:—
The registry shark doesn’t thrive in this country. The
young female especially, who in Australia suffers so much
at the hands of unscrupulous vampires, walks securely
under the wing of authority. At most railway stations
large placards are displayed, cautioning the unsophisti-
cated Mart Ann from the back-blocks not to trust her-
self to any but the representatives of certain institutions
designed specially for the protection of young women.
These are not charities; they rather are of the
nature of hotels, with a tariff varying to suit all
pockets. Situations are found free of charge
for all applicants, whether boarders of the estab-
lishment or not. With regard to finding work
for them, men are catered for in a similar manner. There
is, however, little difficulty in getting work here. There
is no unemployed question, but rather a lack of workmen
in almost every branch. The natural result is compara-
tively high wages. Some weeks before Christmas I no-
ticed placards up at the different post offices offering
good pay to a large number of extra hands to act as tem-
porary letter-carriers. When the time came, I found that
soldiers had been pressed into service, and concluded,
from the number of them so employed, that applications
for the work had been a long way below the required num-
ber. There is no doubt that the high tariff on
such goods as can with advantage he produced
in the country is to no small degree responsible
for the existing prosperity. Living, on the whole,
is far from cheap here, yet everyone' seems flourishing.
Significant that since my arrival in Germany (six months
ago) I have not seen a single beggar. True enough, they
receive no encouragement. The aged and indigent are
cared for by the and the able-bodied found
“ without visible ” are promptly put on a “Government
contract.”
Another proof, if any is required, of the prosperous
labor conditions in the Fatherland, is the phenomenal
decrease of emigration. Thousands of emigrants still
leave German ports every week for America. But they
are not Germans. Poland and Hungary furnish the
greater bulk of them, Asiatic Europe (that is to say, the
Balkan States) running them very close. (It may not
he generally known that German steamship cos. are pro-
hibited by law from booking emigrants, if German sub-
jects, to Maoriland, while they may accept them to the
Australian continent.)
«
Be the probability of the much-maligned
Australian navigation laws being hailed as wise
British statesmanship a few years hence, the
remarks of a prominent shipping man to London
Daily Mail concerning the loss of the steamer
Ordovician off the Portuguese coast are inter-
esting. That wreck was due to the inability of the
helmsman and look-out to understand English :
I should not he surprised if Lloyd’s raised the rates on
vessels not manned by British subjects, or, at all events,
by sailors capable of understanding and speaking
English .. . Roughly speaking, one-third of the men
afloat under the red ensign are foreigners. British Jack
divides these into two groups. The men who say “ yah ”
for yes are Dutchmen. The man who involuntarily grabs
his sheath-knife when growled at is a Dago . . . First
group includes Germans, Finns, and Scandinavians ;
second Spaniards, Greeks, and Italians ... If you ask me,
as a ship-owner, why we take them in preference to
Englishmen—and there is no gainsaying the fact—it is
because they are cheaper in wages and food. Are they
as efficient ? As deckhands on steamers, yes ; as sailor-
men, most assuredly no.
“ R.” WRITES
The Bulletin’s recent statement that there is nothing
sacrosanct about the term “Labor party,” and that the
party must stand or fall on its merits, appeals particu-
larly to that large and increasing class which, though
standing quite outside the ranks of labor, votes the labor
ticket. I belong to that class myself, and I know of
scores of others. It is this vote, largely silent, which in
many—l believe most—electorates turns the balance. It
is given to the Labor party simply because that party
has given by far the most democratic promise,
and has clean hands and definite principles. This
outside vote is growing steadily, owing to the admir-
able record of the Federal Labor partv, and the
honesty and ability of Watson and some others.
Rut most of the Labor Leagues seem to have got it into
t eir heads that the whole of the Labor successes are due
to the leagues. Their motto is, “ Alone we did it.” But
they are making the mistake of their lives, as they will
find, if they persist in refusing to carry out Watson’s
pledge to his Liberal friends. An instance of the strength
of this outside Democratic vote was the return of Tren-
with to the Senate, with 100,000 votes, in the teeth of
Trades Hall opposition. Let the P.L.O. run a man
against Higgins, for example, or Kingston, if they want
to see the strength of the outside Democratic vote, and
incidentally, their own weakness.
Melbourne Age, although it still ranks a
a comparative Jingo among Australian-spirited
journals, has nevertheless lost all its Boer-time
enthusiasm for lending military aid to Britain’s
foreign warfare. A recent utterance of David
Syme’s organ is very decided on this point:—
If our military forces were intended for European ser-
vice there might be some excuse for importing- Imperial
officers to govern them. But they are not. They are
destined first and last for the defence of Australia, and
for no other purpose. And since this is so it is quite
plain that men who taught Imperial generals how to win
colonial battles in South Africa are not less competent to
teach and lead their own countrymen to a similar end.
| The argument might be extended to a suggestion
of “ colonial ” officers for a section of the British
I army. In her frequent little wars Britain needs,
officahs capable of the tactics that were introduced
to—haw ! —official notice in S’Africa by the beastly
“irregular” contingent forces. An Australian Mili-
tary College, subsidised by the Imperial Govern-
ment, would be a fair thing, and a great boon to
the Empire.
Agatn, this time from Townsville (N.Q.): —
Evidence was taken by the Sugar Labor Commission at
Proserpine to the effect that the white labor available for
the ensuing season was sufficient, but it was unreliable,
and it was necessary for the Government to take steps
to introduce labor.
Certainly it is necessary for the Government to
“ take steps to introduce labor.” And there isn’t
much doubt what those “steps” should be.
,Decently Dr. Maxwell, the Government sugar
expert, described the accommodation provided for
the laborers: —
Buildings with bare walls, no shade being provided by
verandahs to protect the rooms from the heat and to
allow the men to sit outside. . . . Bunks of the crudest
character, and in many cases seed-beds of vermin and
disease. . . . The bunks were fixtures, and the bedding
used was dry grass, cane tops, or bagasse from the mill,
and in no case were mattresses provided.
If Townsville or any other place reckons that it
can get “reliable” white labor to live and work
under those conditions it makes a mistake. And
if the Government were foolish enough to import
“reliable” labor and turn it loose amid such sur-
roundings, it wouldn’t be “reliable” for more
than a season. It would either clear out in dis-
gust, throwing a brick at Kidston on the way, or
it would degenerate. You can’t get the manners
of an orderly workshop in a pig-stye.
Instead of trying the indeterminate sen-
tence, which he regards as too arbitrary, Maori-
land Minister for Justice McGowan proposes to
devote a sum of money annually to investigating
the antecedents of people with the criminal in-
stinct, and tracing hereditary tendencies and
other vague moral effluvia. But unless McGowan
proposes to dig up the remote criminal ancestors
and slay them with an axe, it is difficult to see
that he will do much. When one is sandbagged
by a habitual criminal his remote ancestors don’t
seem to matter much.
“Itan ” writes :
The system of voluntary electoral enrolment in Queens-
land has broken down very badly, for tlie figures show
that not half the adult population went to the trouble of
qualifying. The cities seem to be the worst offenders.
At Charters Towers only 7000 out of 10,000 registered their
names; at North Brisbane 2000 out of 8000 ; at South
Brisbane, 5000 out of 9000 ; Rockhampton, 3000 out of
7000. Scattered country parts showed up better. The
police are now at work putting on the names of the tired
part of the population, and in the metropolitan area
( they expect to confer on 15,000 persons a privilege on
which they place no value until the hurly-burly of a gene-
ral election wakes them up.
Albert D. writes:
The visiting Jap hasn’t consumed all the flags and beer.
I followed a squad of them around the city on Empire
day. Six of ’em boarded a Randwick tram to see the
tiger and monkey at the Zoo. The rest wandered round
the Chow end of George-street, making eyes at Ah Sin’s
half-caste brats. (How would an unrestricted Chow-Jap
element swamp the north end of Sydney!) A crowd of
public school boys, each taller and straighter than the
longest man-Jap, walked round and round the little
strangers reverently and inquisitively. At a glance one
saw that they were the sons of Stinking Fish, and had
been taught by their daily press to kow-tow and fear the
inflated brown mimics. A crowd of 15-year-old cadets
trooped by, pausing to criticise the shortness of Japan’s
legs. A furious argument arose among the boys as to
whether Tommy Matsura could stride 20in. if pushed.
The Japs were not annoyed ; they smiled, swaggered and
chuckled. A mischievous boy dropped a long Chinese
cracker into their centre where it spat and .lumped
furiously between their legs. They halted stolidly, and
kicked it into the gutter like men who had been digesting
9-inch shells for years. A narrow-hipped, middle-aged
larrikin followed them sulkily. “ Blime,” he said, “ I
remember the time when me an’ Griffo would have shifted
’em with ’arf a pocket-full of metal.” They smiled at him.
A butcher hustling meat from a Glebe Island cart got in
their way with seven feet of cow resting against his hair.
The little men gaped at the butcher, and skipped aside as
he jolted the suet end across their uniforms. “ Where ye
goin’?”he shouted. “Don’t knock a bloke over.” He
drove into their centre, Hannibal-like, with his quivering
mass of cow, separated them, wagged the sirloin
under the chief officer’s chin and cleared the footpath.
“Struth,” he said hotly. “Some of these rice-eatin’
blokes like the smell of our beef.”


At Last a Remedy has been fous:d
that Cures Consumption.
■m,
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman. Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consumption.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured ttie
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages of
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con-
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hundreds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery-
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless of cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself effective and speedy in curing ( atarrh, Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles.
In order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free 'Trial Treatment can be obtained
writin ß the fterk F. Yonkerman Co. Ltd.,
Dixson Buildings, Sydney. Send no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
Trial Treatment. It will be sent you by return ol
post, carriage paid,
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don’t wait if you have any of the symptoms of con
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis
asthma, pains in your chest, a cold on your lungs, 01
any throat or lung trouble, write to-day for the free
trial treatment and book of instructions, and curt
yourself before it is too late.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
AUDITED AND KEPT.
LOAMS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
(late Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.) j
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
WDJxSvfi
-•1 ■
Seteclk
from ah
rsg
GfanpWeras
hckJin«j\ tc ' ic
Record,
Sjgnor&KLOMNI
TOiFmwjrmis
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
NKOLEPHONES
The World's Triumph in Talking Machines.
From £3 lOs. to £5.
NicolcpboQc Disc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUPLEX RECORDS.
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
lOin. - • 5/** each. 7in. - - 2/6 each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
lOin. - - 3/6 each. 7in. • • 1/6 each.
W. G. KING. AGENT. 316 George St„
SYDNEY.
Cures While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING 00081$ IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOWIE AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-65 Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6$ 4 oz. } 2-8$ 2 oz. } l-o#
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
a RAZOR TH A TSATjS F|E S.
THE PLUM
RAZOR.
A WONDERFUL LITTLE RAZOR that
runs over the face with a smoothness
and ease that makes you wondef Why
you didn’t buy it before.
PRICE, 10/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6 ; Pair in Morocco Leather
Case, 21/- ; Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/- ; Pair in
Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6. Bar Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Razor Sharpener, fd.
POST FREE to Any Part of Australasia.
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN;
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
PRICE 10/6
BUY AN
EPISON PHONOGRAPH
i . - r^*3-
c
BY MAIL.
MARK
CHAOS
O >
m
honqOH
It’s easy to buy by mail—quick and safe. You
can depend on getting the best instrument your
money will buy if you send your order to us.
Its music is loud, clear, and absolutely natural.
Its rendering of the voices of famous singers
is perfect.
BUY ONE BY MAIL!
Price
Other Prices from 10s.
FILL THIS FORM IN AND POST TO US. We
will then send you our Catalogues.
Name
Address
20,000 RECORDS TO SELECT FROM.
Is., Is. 3d., Is. Gd. and Is. 9d. Each.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
"M Y OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
h
THE COG OA OF THE OLD COUNTRY.
rure
It is the purest and most economical
cocoa inuse. It’s nicest too. -
•ftff MNCEf says - "Codb ur/s /s th ejfan dat'd of h iejh est punt/.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
FOR WINTER WEAR . . .
A Man cannot do better than Order one of our Famous
40/-
“Big Block” Stilts
MADE TO MEASURE, in All-Wool
Tweeds and Pure Indigo Dye Serges.
40
Price -40 s.
THEY FIT WELL. THEY WEAR. WELL.
PO3T FREE to any address in the Commonwealth.
EXTRA TROUSERS, 12/6 the Pair.
Send for Sample Patterns and Full Instructions for Self-Measurement.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE,
WE ARE ON THE SPOT
with erasure Billiard Bulls
m
!l " «
m
mrnm
m.
WWM.iU
/S 5
AICOC#& Cf/tyM
The •
Onlv •
Substifufe
for • •
Ivory
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms—
-422 GEORGE STREET
I’ll Try It.’
A 20 YEARS ’ REPUTATION
Is behind CAPILLARINE!
For 20 years it has been doing its good work. It is the Surest
and Quickest MOUSTACHE GROWER ever invented. Sold
in Pots. You simply rub it in and watch the result.
Price 10s. 6d,
POST FREE.—SENT
UNDER SEALED COVER.
The Result.
CRAIQ & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Some years ago —it is difficult to remember
how many—N.S.W. passed a law whereby inebri-
ates could be put under compulsory medical treat-
ment in a sort of farm-hospital instead of being
subjected to the crude remedial measure of ss. or
24 hours. N.S.W. left it to the Judges to make
rules for working the Act, and the Judges
promptly made a set of rules under which the
inebriate had to consent before anything could be
done, and thus practically knocked the measure
out. The Government made no attempt to induce
Parliament to cancel the absurd rules. Nobody
tried to capture any inebriate. And after £13,000
had been spent on partly building the institution
the whole thing was dropped. The latest —the
very latest—is that Minister Ilogue reckons the
question should be taken up again, but that there
should be a careful avoidance of undue haste in
the matter. That was a month or so ago, and undue
haste has been successfully avoided ever since.
In fact, if there is anything that has been avoided
right from the beginning it has been undue haste.
Meanwhile the inebriate goes his old way, and
the wages of gin are death as heretofore.
“Talkin’ av elections,” said a bald and
crowfooted ex-M.L.A., negotiating a third long
sleever, ‘ ‘ the funniest I call to mind was the
Ultimo one—’twas West Sydney then —of some-
where near a quarter av a century ago. It was
Harris agin Harris. Iveryone who knows John
of to-day knows a decent chap. Av course he’s
ignorant of polertics, an’ always was. But his
uncle, the docthor, was worse. Oul’ Doctor
Harris —whose first name was also John —owned
money an’ 'ouses an’ land galore, an’ havin’ a
quarrel with the nephew about a family point,
he determined to break the spokes of his politer-
cal wheel. So the oul’ doctor stood agin young
John. Ye nivver seen the oul’ lad ? Well, he was
a broad little man, all gone on one side with
rheumatics, and he laned on a shtick as thick as a
gate-post, an’ he shouted for iverybody at Andy
Flannigan’s. He gev’ his cheque-book to Tom
Slattery to hold, and cried, ‘B’ys, ’elp yerselves.’
Tom gets up at the meetin’ an’ says, ‘ B’ys, vote
for the Doctor ; ’e’s a man av wealth, an’ although
’e’s no talker an’ can’t walk, yit he can vote, an’
his vote will tell.’ Thin we all went down to
Ultimo an’ gathered a great crowd, an’ the oul
Doctor made the spaich av his life. It was—
I rimimber ivery word av it—he laned
on his gate-post, and says he: ‘Shure ye
all know me; ye can ’ave me if ye like,
an’ if ye don’t ye can go to .’ ” The ex-M.L.A.
couldn’t wait longer for a drink. “ Well,” he con-
tinued, “ that was the spaich, and we couldn’t get
him to larn any more, so we hired a mob from the
Rocks to foller us about, an’ whini ver the ould
Doctor would rise on his gatepost that mob
would yell an’ yell, as if applaudin’, an’ dacent
people didn’t know but the oul’ man was talkin’
sense. The upshot was that oul’ John an’ young
John wor both knocked out, but we touF oul’
John he was head of the poll, put him in a wheel-
barrow, and rowled him through the city, he all
the time throwin’ silver about with both hands.
It was gran’ fun, but it stood the oul’ Doctor
over £3000.”


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLIOAR,
I Superintendent.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
Reserve(in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
: UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
I" d. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
.4 ••>erica, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
i >irkctors. - — Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. : ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F.;Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. Y. RALSTON.
The Colonial |]|utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office : ,
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £‘2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461—Assuring- £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Ciiif.f Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Bankof Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised ... .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) J ' £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt. -Col. Burns (Burns,
Phiip & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, D. Clynk ; Adelaide. VV. jj.
M’Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV."
Farquitar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
Write for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
-£4,000,000-
£1, 000,000.'
.£165,000.
Head Office —96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES :
VlCTORlA —Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA —Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East. :
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Capital Fully Subscribed ...
Capital Paid up
Reserve Fund
Shipping.
N. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar; London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Sorew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR. 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*PRINZ SIGISMUND, 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER.
*Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ĥ
PLYMOUTH and LONDON 1 via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to Sail on or about
13th JULY,
AFRIC, SUEVIC, PERSIC,
■ and RUNIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. ... 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
■Agents in Australia.
TN€ RB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to' £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O CEAKTIC S.S. Co. A.. & A.. LIKTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships dn the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. SONOMA, 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JULY 2.
For lull Particulars and Illustrated Matter, send or apply to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“Moresby’s” three Winter
Cruises, on Mat 7, July 7,
and September 7, are now
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
ħ
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £2s—there are no
extras; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“ Houday Hints ” ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR
INTEREST
EASY
TERMS
&
$
CAPITAL ..' £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3ST.S.-W.
flout de pete D.»||.(Jo.,|itd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTA 'E BENNETT, General Manager.
-THE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
I AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .; .. .. .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.’;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1879.)
Head Office—HUNTER & BLICH STREETS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
Agents Wanted.
WE
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE NEW TURBINE STEAMER,
MAHENO,
SAILS JULY 9.
EXCURSION TO CANADA.
A Journey of 16,000 miles on Sea & Land.
Cheaper than any trip being offered
in Australia.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
A. XJ Gr. e, SEP 1\ 3.
jt2T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streefc, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
■ a - Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheej of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Hay market.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,090.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
T JJ* South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney
_ Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO;
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
BRISBANE, 1
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Wollowra, June 15.
S.S. Gran tala, June 27.
S.S. Wollowra, June 23.
S.S. Marloo, July 14.
Ttest and Cheapest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
trench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
FREMA NTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIEN
YILLE DE LA
OIOTAT
YARRA
Com-
mander
Combe
Verron
Etienne
Sydney,
Noon.
Mel-
bourne.
1 p:m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p. m
June 18 June
July 16'July
Aug. 13 Aug.
Sellier .. 'Sept. 10 Sept.
21 June 23
19 July 21
16 Aug. 18
l3 Sept. 15
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY! £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accoihpany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of (jew South (Halos.
Estaklisiikd 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
2,000,000 0 o
1.450,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ~
Reserve Liability of Proprietors
Total 5,450,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllAr, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors :
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
Ijondon Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking, business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Hotels.
PETTY’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors', and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every omtor and convenience at —
MRS- TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfieid Parade
ST. HILDA.
and test-Appointed Boardingthouse in
the .Oolpmes. * Magnificent situation, facing Beach,
onarges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
Telephone No. 107, Windsor. _
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.


A FACT!
Memory
Means
Money!
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your power of thought-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories ; therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet,
“Memory [and How to Improve It.”
The Pelman-Foster School of Memory
Training,
MELBOURNE: Box 402, G.P.O.
England: 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.C. ; Germany:
9 Mosartstr, Munich ; France : 109 Avenue de Neuilly,
Paris; U.S.A. : 1608 Masonic Temple, Chicago ; South
Africa : Lynn Buildings, Durban, Natal.
fTHEfI
DEAF
By using- the Wilson Coni'
■non Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
-1 tressing head noises writ!
| for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering-. Ad-
dress—Star Novelty Co.
229-231 Collins-st., MeP
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your nam l
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will glue free sr*ts
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
then and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
tplendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
h
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CTJIiY tij that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they mav CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple tor all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AG£NCY, Castlereagh St.,
SY3DUEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
ĥ
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation" of
the lining- membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight ana hearing, destroys
(he sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 CoiUos-st., Melbourne.
W THOUSANDS OF W
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
PJIDEfI r Langston’s Perfect
IfUIfCU Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k —
‘‘RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE”
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps,
the LANCSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
A CHAMPION CIGAR!
———————— »- - ■ i . ——————— ■
KING OF ALL K. & B. HIGH LIFE CIGARS at 17/6
per 100 stand head and shoulders above all other cigars at that
price, and a little higher. You never smoked such a
fine flavored Cigar as this.
KING OF ALL K. & B. HIGH LIFE CIGARS, 100 in a Box for 17,6.
Add 9d. for postage. In Mild, Medium, or Full Strength.
Send Is. for Sample Box of Four—Post Free.
SOLE AGENTS—
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654- George St., Sydney.
ħ
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medala^
h
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.otting Ser es.
Works: Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ĥNGLISH
ħANUFACTURE,
h
ĥN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE).
ħ Bjg IS PROTECTED DY RECISTRATIOK W3U TUT ITlAtir gM PBUITIIiM «n»l«
h
f®£R b.
e «%S
i
m
wmmsMgm
ĥ
Refuse
Imitations
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
| Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT & Go., London, England.
4ar
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL I
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, 'ry it ; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair gro.v on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9c* extra
HOLLAND’S NATVRALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6; Postage 9d extra,
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Col//ns St,, Melbourne
©
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
IDINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
EH3I
ES
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
| RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
[\l EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
DO IT NOW !
WHAT?
RECAIN YOUR HEALTH, IF IT IS LOST.
TAKE MEASURES TO PRESERVE IT, IF IT IS FAILING.
Good Health is the greatest blessing mankind can
experience. It means not only the power to vigor-
ously engage in the contest of everyday life, but
the ability to enjoy the fruits of success ; the
intuitive conviction that one is the equal of his
fellow, and the joy of the fight that is found in the
fighting—in short, it means Energy, Force, Vitality
and Power. WHY BE WITHOUT IT ?
WEAK, AILING and DESPONDENT MEN, recover
your Strength. Get rid of that Tired, Languid
Feeling. Be young again. Health is yours for the
asking. Don’t cast aside the Pearl that is beyond
Price. Consult the Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON
INSTITUTE. Their experience extends over many
years of successful practice. THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURE, when a case has been undertaken.
Sufferers from NERVE, BLOOD or SKIN DISEASES can consult no Higher Authorities than the
Expert Medical Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE. We cure, to stay cured and
thousands of grateful testimonials can be seen in their officially-stamped envelopes, at the Consulting
Rooms of the Institute.
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS THE LATEST
DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL SCIENCE. IT NEVER FAILS.
WRITF once f° r Dr. Langston's
IT ni I t latest medical work (Illus.)
“ MENS SANA IN CORPORE SANO.”
It tells you what you want to know,
oughttcflknow! POSTED FREE.
THE
Dr. Langston Institute
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free.
All Communications
Sacredly Confidential.
Established 1887.
Mention this Paper
when writing.
WHEN
SEASONS
CHANGE
It behoves one to take special pre-
cautions against Chills and Colds
by wearing next the body .....
AERTEX
CELLULAR . .
UNDERWEAR
All garments of underwear, for both
Ladies and Gentlemen—SHlßTS,
PYJAMAS, &c., and the materials
by the yard, stocked by
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRAHAM <fc CO.
94 King Street, Sydney.
Call or write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST—Post Free.
Don't
0
waste time in
experimenting.
Thirty Years'
unbeaten and, increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
Onbridgi
v £ung Tonic
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or t tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
BOSI!
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
TUUS.
ħ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
model's £2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Eim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
'.o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
nnn Second-Hand Cycles
to £2.10
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
CADII A nun I r taking orders from sample
CHnN A UluLt machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily made. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, Ac., half prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO. Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Ears Looked as if They Would Drop
Off—Body Entirely Covered with
Sores—Three Doctors Could Not
Cure—Child Grew Worse.
CURED BY CUTICURA
IN TWO WEEKS
Mrs. George J. Steese, of 701 Coburn St.,
Akron, Ohio, tells in the following letter
of another of those remarkable cures of
torturing, disfiguring skin humours daily
made by Cuticura Remedies, after phy-
sicians, and all else had failed: “I feel
it my duty to parents of other poor suf-
fering babies to tell you what Cuticura
has done for my little daughter. She
broke out all over her body with a hu-
mour, and we used everything recom-
mended, but without results. I called in
three doctors, they all claimed they
could help her, but sh** continued to
grow worse. Her body was a mass of sores,
her little face was being eaten away, and
her ears looked as if they would drop off.
Neighbours advised me to get Cuticura
Soap and Ointment, and before I had
used half -A the cake of Cuticura Soap
and the box of Cuticura Ointment, the
sores nad all healed, and my little one’s
face and body was as clear as a new-born
babe’s. I would not be without it again
if it cost a fortune instead of the small
sum it cost us to cure our baby, after
spending much money on doctors and
medicines without any benefit whatever.”
SLEEP FOR BABIES
Rest for Tired, Fretted Mothers
in Cuticura.
Instant relief and refreshing sleep for
skin-tortured babies, and rest for tired,
fretted mothers, in warm baths with Cuti-
cura Soap and gentle anointings with
Cuticura Ointment, the great skin cure,
and purest of emollients. A single set of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment is often suffi-
cient to cure the most distressing cases.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills arc sold throughout the
■world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,s Rue de
la Paix; Australia. U. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Cliein. Corp., Boston, Solo Props.
63“ Send for “ llow to Cure Baby Humours.”
mm
UU3
SHI
wmmm
i |.-l,i>-<(ate Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
■SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Hooks.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM l'-oit Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
QUEENSLAND 33AN3H
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building 1 , Perth
Of course you have System
in your ollioe BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER 1
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
IOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney,
SOTiB Ai'ktrai.usj Auk NT
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERT’S
Prickly-heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Prickly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Cal vert & Co.i Manchester.
England.
A FREE GIFT SALE
7/6
Post
Free
Fo. one mouth,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
5,000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes, 1 j in-
ches long, 7/6
Post Free.
GIVEN
AWAY.
One Feather
Pom low G iyen Free to everyone ordering
this month- Catalogue Free. Write
to-day. Send postal notes.
FEATHER SHOP.
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; a'so at
Comer of Bourka and Swans lon Cts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
HEAVY,
LEKE LEAD,
Is the way Mrs. Leigh’s food lay
on her stomach, all due to
INDIGESTION.
SHE WAS CURED BY
MOTHER
h
“I was long subject to severe
attacks of indigestion, preceded by
dreadful headaches, and followed
by languor and depression of
spirits. The little food I was able
to eat would lie heavy like lead on
my stomach. My system was so
run down that I became wasted and
too weak to do my work. Fifteen
months back I first used Mother
Seigel’s Syrup and from the outset
got great relief. By the time I had
used three bottles I was quite
cured ; all my pains had gone and
I have been well ever since.”
Mrs. M. Leigh, 25, Ross Street,
Forest Lodge, Sydney; letter of
July 25, 1905.
IT CURES ALL
Be Armed Against Punctures!
i¥IIRAQULUM
TS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring' along your Cars and Cycles to—
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST.. MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
UNLIVE AGENTS WANTED IN VARIOUS STATES.
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYCIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing: Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mu ual) chief'office Vor NS W- 263 George Street, Sydney,
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 10s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(6) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full pari ieulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. 11. BAXTER, Res. Bee.
THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE BUYS THE SOAP.
LET IT BE
WRIGHT’S COAL TAR SOAP
For it has THREE UNRIVALLED MERITSi
It is delightful in use. It is absolutely pure*
It protects from all infection.
6d. per Tahiti. Sa x of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
ĥ
h
i, ’«
J, r.n^m
is
*
■jmm
:'W fcjSf?
m
„*s>m
: ■
:
? i
»■>
■
ore
Vz the Shave
depends upon the lather,
and the lather depends
upon getting Williams’
Shaving Soap. Most
used because it has
never been equated in
ability to soften the
beard, keep a rich,
moist, creamy lather,
allay irritation, and make
shaving easy and safe.
It’s dangerous econ-
omy to experiment on
your face with other
makes.
Sol.l by Chemists , Hairdressers ami
Perfumers , all over the world; or
mailed to any address on receipt of
price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Slicks, Is.
Williams’ Luxury Tahlets, Is.
Williams’ American Shaving Tablets, 6d.
(Trial Size) of Williams' Shaving
Stick, zd. Trial Tablet Williams’ Shav-
ing Soap for id. stamp by addressing
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
65 Gt. Russell St., London,. W. C.
161 Clahence St. , Sydney
Main Office and Factories,
GLASTONBURY, CONN., U. S. A.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Australia moves ! One of the very “ toniest” of
Melbourne tailors’ shops—a place so “toney” tliat the
unsold trousers used to turn up automatically when it
rained in Pall Mall or Hyde Park—now' shows Aus-
tralian hats in its windows. And the fat Tory from the
Australian Club is taking it nobly.
» * * •
There has been a great epidemic of fires in
Australia. One well-known valuator has view ed half-a-
million’s worth of fire damage this year. “ And yet,” he
comments, cynically, “ times are supposed-to be good.”
The fire insurance adjuster seldom regards fire as a thing
that comes by accident. As one of the tribe said :
“ There are two great causes of fire —a rat gnawing a box
of matches, and a £2OOO policy gnawing a £lOOO stock.”
•* * * *
“ Rypo ” : On a small block of vacant land ad-
joining Toorak (Vic.) railw'ay station twelve different
estate agents’ “ For Sale ” notice boards are planted.
There must be a bitter struggle for a crust among the
middlemen when they waste all this good timber and
paper and paste on orm little speck of soil.
• * * *
Victorian Agent-General Taverner advises Aus-
tralian poultry-raisers to try and capture the London
market, where an almost unlimited demand exists a( any-
thing from Bi. to lOjd. per lb. But the man who has
tried it looks up the last account-sale he got from the
butter-exporter's first cousin, the poultry-shipper, and is
scornful. If the co-operative butter factories took up the
freezing and exportation of poultry, the farmer would do
as well as he does out of butter, ot in revise there is 1 ttle
hope for him, unless he puts himself entirely in the hands
of the Agricultural Department. And that, of course, is
Socialism ; and-Social ism means destruction, and is also
liable to do serious injury to the marriage tie and the
sanctity of 1 he ’ome,
* * • •
J. Gordon Smith, London Morning Post war
correspondent, regarding Japanese commercial morality :
—“ I was one of the correspondents who started in July
last to ride from Dalny in the wake of General Oku’s
army.. . . The imperial highway passed through many
villages and walled cities. In these muddy Chinese cities
I stopped at many shops and saw ‘St. Charles Cream ’
offered for sale. . . . The Japanese noted the demand,
with the usual result—factories in Japan made ‘ St.
Charles Cream.’ The label of the American manu-
facturer was copied, though badly mis'-spelled, and
the Chinese dealers were given what to them seemed the
same as that shipped from Tientsin and Shanghai. . . To
me the ludicrous libel of the Japanese imitation was
instantly plain, but the Chinese could not distinguish
between the genuine and the sham. The spelling of
the labels was ridiculous, the picture of the cow was
but the Manchurian knew no better. Imitations
of French brandies, cube sugar from Bordeaux, Price’s
candles from Liverpool, Rowat’s pickles and LVoby’s
corned beef could also be had of the Chinese
storekeepers. They are made in Japan, packed or
bottled identically with the goods of the American or
British manufacturer, and the various labels are copied
after a fashion. In the trail of the Japanese armies,
Chinese gathered outside the city gates to open marts,
selling various nick-nacks, imported through Japan. One
day I found some tooth-powder offered for sale, labelled,
1 Colgate’s Best White Rose —Made in Chicago.’ The
label, which falsely proclaimed Chicago as the scene of
manufacture, further said : ‘These teeth powders is best
for leeviner teeth-ache. ’”
« * • •
“ J.A.C.”: It is a sad, but self-evident, fact
that there are people who do not want work. I know' a
man who recently accepted a job to look after a buggy,
for which he W'as to receive the plutocratic wage of ss. a
week and found—the employer took care that he was
found, always. That, he was told, would be all he would
have to do; in his spare time he could “amuse
himself pottering about the garden.” When he got to the
place he found a buggy, a phaeton, and two horses.
The “pottering about the garden” consisted of digging,
weeding, and generally looking after one flower garden
and two kitchen gardens, and mowing and keeping in
order three lawns. But that was not all the amusement
he had. There were vegetables to be gathered and cleaned
for the cook, wood to chop, knives and boots to polish, and
other household duties to keep him from wearying and
losing himself in sad reflections. Time never hung
heavy on his hands. He was not even asked to do laun-
dry work. Yet he threw up his billet and left his good,
kind master, a well-known and respected Sydney gentle-
man. No wonder masters and mistresses complain of the
difficulty ii -ettingsei 'ants.
• • * •
“ Yarrum ”: It seems a good deal of “ tick ”is
given in pubs., and, as with the butcher and the baker,
the good pays have to part up for the bad and indifferent.
I w'as at a settling, t’other night, to sign papers and give
advice, and W'as let into some of the tricks of the trade. A
publican had sold out, and was giving points to his suc-
cessor. “Take it from me,” he said, “and when a man
sticks up nips, multiply the amount by two, as I always
did. Some of the beggars won’t part a cent, and you
must get even. There’s old Murphy, f’rinstance. I’ve
had to multiply his score by three, for he would rarely
pay more than half, and then he’d growl like a cataract'.
‘The Slab’ is a decent coon, and parts anything
asked for without a murmur. But, whatever you do, look
out for Juggins! lie has the most remarkable head ever
was slung on a man, and can remember every nip, and
the time he had it, besides w'ho was present and what
passed, up to a thousand. Before I knew him, I doubled
his little debt, but never again ; he performed something
awful, and threatened to Carrie Nation the bar. He’ll bo
one of your best customers, but give him fair dues. Now,
I think that’s about all ; but, wdiatever way you deal
with the others, deal honestly by Juggins. His memory
is somethin r awful.”
* * • *
‘•Elmore ” : I once tried to make an honorable
bob at fruit hawking. I hawked one trip. I went round
the back of the first house, and politely lifted my shat-
tered hat. “ Would you like some peaches to-day,
madam?” A howl from inside answered me. “Oh ves,
mum, get some.” “I’ll be out in a minute,” cried a
female voice. She came out, so did all the kids. She
took a peach in her hand, turned it over and over, and
finally ate it. All the kids mouths were watering. Then
she took another, split it in halves, and gave the pieces
to two kids.” How much are they?”she inquired as she
gave one each to the other children. “Threepence a 1b.,”
I answered. Then she tried another, and said sweetly,
“Yes, they are cheap. Perhaps next time you come
round I’ll buy some. Good morning.” The next woman
went through the same performance, only she had more
kids. One woman ordered 41b. She gave me the shilling
and took the peaches inside. Then she came out and
demanded sixpence change. Met a couple in a gig, and
asked if they would like any peaches. “ Oh, it is kind of
you!’ answered the fe rule, and tin man filled his hat.
Hawkers are born, not made,
FAMILY PKIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill was only a human worm,
So was his neighbor Joe,
Both were employed by that noted firm,
Skinnem Alive and Co.
But Bill looked d< wn on his brother werm,
And up to Skinnem Alive,
For Joe drew forty bob from the firm
And Bill drew two-pun-five.
The missus of Bill and the nippers of Bill
Were bulging with f unily pride ;
Poor Mrs. Joe grew pale an'l ill,
And the nippers felt mean beside.
But they brought in a beautiful Factories Act
(It’s going quite str : gly still);
On to Joe’s pay theie were five bob talked,
Which brought him in line with Bill.
But, alas ! 'twas a blow to the pride of Bill
When he drew the same pay as Joe ;
And poor Mrs. Bill gr< w pal ■ and ill,
And the nippers were filled with woe.
And thus you will "nd with the human worm,
As it happened to Bill a id J> e ;
And it even a '< ct id that noted firm,
Skinnem Alive and Co.
VIC.
A.B.C.


== Britisb-flustralasian
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation ; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &e., &c.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
sg2!Lj
N
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£,2 /Os, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute lle-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing' Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
h
Sold N
by
all first-
claw stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 2/-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PfIMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BZST.
IfYouWantTheßest
Ask for a
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
gQLP-MQUNTEP BACK COMBS
For the Dancing' Reason.
SPECIAL DESIGNS by STEWART DAWSON & CO., The Jewellers.
C 2795
0 3-DEEP
C 2793 S%'^LONG 3^4^DEEP
PRICE 23/-
C 27 97 3-WIDES-DEEP
'-Wife
m
5T
C 279
EEP
EP
111
C 2751
WWIDE
5&-DEEP
.
HESE COMBS are very handsome-looking in wear, both for outdoors and indoors, and are a few of our
1 NEW DESIGNS for the Season. They are strongly made, and will give satisfaction in every way. You
will see these Combs on many of Sydney’s most fashionable dressers to day. Come in and see them. Don't
trouble if you know you don’t want to buy; we won’t mind showing them in the least. We have others,
perhaps a bit less elaborate, for 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d and 21s ; and others again at 32s 6d and 47s 6d.
Also specially fine Gem Set Combs for 67s 6d, 70s, 80s and 120 s. They are worthy of Inspection.
ORDERS BY
POST
CAREFULLY
EXECUTED.
POST FREE.
ĥ
MONEY BACK
IF
WE FAIL
TO
PLEASE YOU.
BOOK
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hardcovers, im-
proved. Magiq Up-To-Date, Is. Horse and Cattle
Doctor, Gd. Donelly’s Art ok Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
Gd. How TO: Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil; and all Zola’s, Is Gd each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, 2s.
Little Folks' Reciter, Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, Gd each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All Nat Gould’s Novels, Gd each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, Gd. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Maofadden’S Physical Train-
ing, Is. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and RepairinGj 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits ok
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is. • Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry’ Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 3d,
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTOP.tTY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
0 (S -
//
Free Catalogues:
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2—Conjuring' Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanica
Books.
No. 6 —Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is lid.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman's
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, is 3d. A Midnioiit Mystery, is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. Engineer’s Practical Test: engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phrenology,
is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made East-, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding-, breaking,
training, sheltering, buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases —their causes, how to know them and
how to"cure them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURHE.


LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
away the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
# ■ what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a liferi
Write to-day. Address—
h
ĥ
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, «9 Pitt St., Sydney^
MELBA AGGORDEONS
R
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam Aniseed
COUGHS
l Fof ;COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
. Safe for Children.
TRADE f
Imam
o*?
Al\llSEt°
Of all Chemists & Stores. Be sure
. y ou ffet Powell’s with above
Trade Mark.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for pr^..'c cf
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC) TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.
ħ
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
£acn Capsule bears the name
iKWI
SOME
SOLD
BY
m
%
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in.its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with'the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Book ok Nature and Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engravings, new 1905 edition,
2s 6d posted. How to Get llicii, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Od each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, is Gd. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d;
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
WindowTicketWriting Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsy 1 Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Js. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s Cd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, Is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D*- Established SO Years.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old'Busii Sonos, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, ' 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
"Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, hs 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s 6d. . The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet . and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. . Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
! AN INTERESTING
i BOOK FOE YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
! speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
; ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
i of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
! SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
i BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
QHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, ‘fee. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Mifc
I TRIED every known treatment and device without
help. Finally I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
If you are deaf, or have head noises, don’t waste time and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning- this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address —
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
h
The omy imalnnie Keu.euy for WcAl & ucUILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address; A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1 J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
WOOL
A.M
TALLOW
SHEEPSKINS
L&F. GO., Ltd.
— SYDNEY. HIDES
The Illustrated. Medical News
sayslnfants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
s W s: ~“ Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own."
ĥ
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENGER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &c., EVERYWHERE.
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
There’s a land-boom in the North Island
of Maoriland, and properties have been changing
hands at frightful increases in value. The other
day a New Plymouth paper came out with a list
of properties sold and the prices paid, and the
Borough Council, which had just collected its
rates, was staggered to think how vast a gap
there was between the rateable value and the
ioi va u ?' wen t away by itself and thought
'j 8 ?! 11 was some .thing enormous, and then
it decided that the selling price of a property is
its true value for taxation purposes, and came
down on the “ defaulters ” for misstatements,
and collected a big supplementary income.
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Hogue, to a de-
putation asking that something definite should be
done to stamp out the plague of phthisis, gave the
usual vague reply. He admitted the evil and so
on, and would see what could be done. Phthisis
makes the greatest tax on life in N.S.W. to-day,
and yet it is the most ignored of all diseases.
There are practically no hospitals for bad cases,
practically no sanatoria to prevent mild cases
degenerating, no precautions to guard the healthy
against the unclean. And successive Govern-
ments “recognise the evil,” and do nothing. There
is no limelight in the phthisis question. You
can’t open a cured victim at a champagne lun-
cheon and make O’Sullivanish remarks about the
bridge-building of the ancient Peruvians, or the
unconquerable determination of the Government
to spread the blessings of railway communication
to the out-back settler.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO L£MD
On Security oF Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold'and p.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any oT the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.D.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J, T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Bmjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Blacli, M.L.0.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1. A., F.F. A., F.S.S. __ __
head Office, 87 pitt street, Sydney. robert b. cameron, secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CO MPETXTIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
5c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A
Vk.
BATH HEATERS
Send por Catalogue. “Wffl
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt st., Sydney
ana 197, 422, ana 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
IAKES »e SKIN
2$ SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ot
?
m
it?.
v*
o
&
Tsn,
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
MOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHfIM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agrewjjs-i-ESHott Bros., Cydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co.^Melbourne.
h
3 M
Kt
ill
M
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges of
all calibers are loaded by machinery which
sizes the shells, supplies the exact quantity
of powder, and seats the bullets properly.
By using first-class materials and this
up-to-date system of loading, the reputation
of Winchester Cartridges for accuracy,
reliability and excellence is maintained.
They cost no more than inferior makes.
Ask for them, and insist upon getting them.
THEY SHOOT WHERE YOU HOLD
Beautiful Home Decorations
Th
m
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘'81POLIIV” VXOOK BTAIISS Btain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOEUV” AIAJMIRTUItt ESAMEL gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver tnnsh,
In or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE COED PAIAT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory. ...
For sale bv all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in tills climate for over 20 years.
GERSTEIVDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN'Sxmsi
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women, No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak m ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure tbe Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Srain N . e f,^t S *
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Seif-Comidenee, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
n■ nnr > fiiinc 1 Dll S G Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLOOD CBJbhSI r'lL.Lo. Q Pa vel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and ail Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
ri;f _*, BSlnmiin Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
WeaK Women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23,6
ULver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office: 547 GEOBGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. MANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
Eight Years’ Suffering
A PERMANENT CURE.
The Case of MRS. A. WEAVER.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
No one can tell the self-denying work which good men have done in the early days of this
county, neither can we exaggerate the nobleness of spirit which animates present-day people in a
desire to ameliorate distress as much as lies in their power. Therefore, the public should be
informed of some of these efforts, one of which was made by Mrs. Alice Weaver, of No. 7 Louis-
street, Redfern, who replied to the reporter by saying:—
“ About this time last year I was living in Telopea-street, and it was just before I left there for
this place chat I was fortunate in casting aside a complaint that had worried me for no less than eight
years. What a fearful life of suffering mine had been all that time, to be sure, and to think that
nothing in the world could benefit me made my spirits droop lower than they will ever be again,
I hope.”
“ What made you think that nothing could benefit you ? ” queried the writer.
“ I arrived at that conclusion because nothing had done me good so far, and I believe I trkd
every medicine going. At the time my second child was born I was under a doctor who did everything
he could for me, but still my health remained as bad as it could be. Indeed at that period I was nearly
dead with indigestion, although I dieted myself and did all that could be done to keep my
torments in check. It was of no avail though, for when I ate anything I could hardly breathe
owing to a feeling which came like a lump in my chest, from which place a sharp
pain went right through to the centre of my shoulders. I then remained in the utmost agony until
the food was vomited up again, after which I felt so exhausted that I could not think of doing a thing
in the house until I had had a good rest. It would surprise you if you only knew how poor my
appetite was. You would wonder how anybody could keep alive with it, and as for my head—
oh ! my sufferings with it were awful. The most piercing pains at one time, and the
most depressing aches at another. Really, I think it was a marvel liow I kept my
senses with the agony I endured in the head, and it’s strange that I didn’t meet with many a nasty
accident through the giddiness which used to overtake me. I was a misery to myself and everybody
around me, and, to tell you the honest truth, I never thought I would live through it all. My eyes
used to feel heavy enough to drop out of their sockets, and I was affected in the mouth by such a
bitter taste that it made me feel sick of a morning after putting in the usual restless nights that had
done so much towards making a wreck of me. Even in the daytime I was always i magi nil ;g something
terrible was going to happen, and these were just the very things that Clements’ Tonic,
which I had commenced to take, showed itself to be master of, for it sent such a vigor
through my whole frame when I had been taking it a couple of weeks that I could
not help feeling joyful in the belief that at last my health had taken a beneficial
turn. I got more Clements’ Tonic, and as each bottle was finished so did my prospects improve, for
I commenced to take my meals with a degree of h eartiness. which astonished my people as much as
it pleased them, and to my own satisfaction and delight the former discomforts attending my meals
were quickly out of existence. Oh, dear ! what a changed woman lam now to then ! My limbs do
not ache from weakness like they formerly did, and I can go about my work as cheerfully and as
actively as any housewife in the country. I do not spend any restless nights now, never dream
during my sleep, and the pains that used to abound have long since been driven away from every part
of my body. Well, Clement’s Tonic made me the healthy woman I am, and for the sake of other
sufferers I trust you’ll publish this interview in any way you think best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, ALICE WEAVER, of No. 7 Louis-street, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements—which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act,
1900 . (Sffd.) ALICE WEAVER.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern this sixth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four, befor®
FNO’fi
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENB’S ' FRUIT SALT/ Without it you hard a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fnp&rod only by J. C. UNO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, 3NG.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
r M.
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
\ FURRED TONGUE.
\ INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
Barter's
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price.
Carter's


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE Flemington, Vic., July 7 ... ... 100,000 at 5/2 each.
SILVER CITY CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 18 ... ... 50,000 at 5/2 each.
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., Aug. 11... 100,000 at 5/2 each,
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6 100,000 at 5/2 each.
ss.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will
Ticket, and 4-d. on each 10s. Ticket,, Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances
t touxtctd TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS
nn iuSv m°j dUCfc , the bwee P. k Uf > m ess under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through
DELI\ Eli i CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
be 2d. on each
to carry on the
any PARCELS
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3:1. per Parcel.
Wo Mother s\vou\d 'mXhoxft Vt
seut
ol t\ request.
A propress/ire d/etary adapted to t/?e promap d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?l I Milk Food N 92 I Malted Food N 93
from i/rd to 3 moods I from 3to 6 moods | from 6 moods upwards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
S^SSS
LIQUOR HABIT
drug habit
HAVE YOU FAILED THROUGH
nniiigf^Ess
UHI UII Pi DON’T DESPAIR.
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures ; here is one :
Ravemthorpe, W.A., 23-9-04.
Have finished the half course, which has
effected u cur e. I have no desire for drink ,
in fact , have a repugnance to the very idea
°f Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Hearne
THCE FA3MIOTJS R.B3MEB3DY FOR
Cure
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness Pain or
Soieness in the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure ' It is most com-
i»!S na t ying irritation m the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop 'Consumption has
Z l " " W wMI tMs ™ dicine - N ° h — should without it, as, taken at the beginning, aZL is genemlly SuSdij
BESWA-TIHS OF COUGHS »
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Heame.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I Was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
under a medical man, and used all kinds of chemists’
prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure, I was about done for,
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Me. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me.
I took another bottle away from the city with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled
about 10,000 mile', since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had Bronchitis several
times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and here,
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles,
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without an v
feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Air. W. 6. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living-in this township for the last 20 years. One of ray
oldest customers lias been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing- of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at m v place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure, lie is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
of it you like, as it may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this way that if tliev
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
“ Dear Sir, —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during- that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can’t be licked.-—Yours sincerely,
“W. TREMELLEN,
“ Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
{PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he statesl am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This g-entleman some three years ago was recommended
to try vour Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, accountant,
Collins-street, and the effect that it had was so marked
that he has ever since been continually recommending it
to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Ilearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to he,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OE HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OE THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Heai-ne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I
bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days.
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half
of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years,
r oil are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON,
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express
mv gratitude first to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
and Asthma Cure, next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. My wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing- it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My
wife and 1 recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARJTE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearnp.
Dear Sir, —Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to' try your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief,
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished.
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottk - . it, as
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CUKE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s- 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Q. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch depot- office : No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


h
MARK
TRADE
-S .
n
wmm
COUCh S:«
COLDS#
CROUP
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE
Throat, Lungs
and Chest.
—— —^
PREPARED BY_
SB
ELDON DRUG C? I
U.S.A.
Syd NET N.S.W.
COPVRIo rtTCO
WHAT worse fate could befall anyone of
us than to be driven from home, the
abode of our truest happiness? Yet disease
will surely do this, and take us to an early
grave, if we do not oppose its advance on the
appearance of the first symptoms of its attack,
by taking
D*SHEIDONs/K
NEW asf“
Discovery
OUCHS
OLDS ano
ONSUMPTION
Lung Diseases are so common in Australia
that they deserve first mention in the list of
fatal diseases, and if we can be sure of safety
from them, the chances of long life are greatly
enhanced. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for Coughs, Colds, and Consumption is
guaranteed to cure all diseases of Throat and
Lungs, or money back.
Read the following letter from Mr. John
Regers, the well-known citizen of Violet
Town, Victoria:—
Violet Town, Vic.
Subldon Drug Company, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— My son was suffering greatly from
a severe cold on the lungs, and a prominent
Melbourne physician said he would certainly have
consumption if he did not leave the district. I
bought him one bottle only of Dr. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY for COUGHS, COLDS, and
CONSUMPTION, and he is now entirely cured. I
cannot recommend this great remedy too highly,
for to us it has proved a great friend in time of
need.
Very gratefully yours,
(Sgd.) JOHN ROGERS.
Ur. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG TROUBLES.
It lias proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
patent medicine, or an ordinary cough mix-
ture, but a scientific discovery that will make
sore lungs well.
To bo obtained everywhere at 1/6 and
3J-, or will be posted upon receipt of
price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., 15 O’CORNELL
STREET, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM CURED.
From Mr. Wm. Milnes, Pallet-street, New Chum, Bendigo, Victoria.
“ About eight years ago I was, for a considerable time, a great sufferer from rheumatism. Acting
on the advice given me by several people, I took Warner’s Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that, when
I had taken the contents of two bottles, I was cured.”
From Mrs. Nellie Davidson, 32 Keig-street, Newtown, Sydney. _ .
“ When living at Boggabri, about eighteen months ago, I was laid up for nearly the whole winter
with rheumatism, and could not obtain any relief from any of the several medicines I took. One day
I saw a pamphlet issued by you in which was described a case similar to my own, and I decided to
try whether Warner’s Safe Cure would also benefit me. I took three bottles of the medicine, and am
very glad to say that I was completely cured and could go about my work cheerfully. I have not felt
the slightest symptom of the return of any rheumatic pain since that time.”
From Mrs. Elizabeth Bosher, 77 Henderson Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
“ Previous to leaving England, about 40 years ago, I was a great sufferer from rheumatism, which
continued to trouble me for about 24 years after my arrival in Australia. I consulted several doctors,
but they failed to do me any good. I also tried many advertised remedies with the same unsatisfac-
tory result, and despaired of ever getting relief from the pain. At length I tried Warner’s Safe Cure
—for what reason I cannot tell you, because I did not expect to get any more benefit from it than from
the many other medicines I had taken. I was, however, very pleased to notice a decided change for
the better after a short course of Warner’s Safe Cure. The pains slowly but surely left me, and at last
I became quite free from them. This happened 16 years ago, and I can honestly say that I have not
suffered in the slightest degree from rheumatism since that time, so that I have to thank Warner’s
Safe Cure for perfectly and permanently curing me. I may say that my case is well known in
Alexandria, as I have for 40 years resided within half a mile of my present address.”
From Mr. Albert E. Long, Port Pirie, S.A.
“ I am pleased to report that I have taken five bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure for rheumatism, and
that the result was marvellous. The pain has all left me, I have gained a stone in weight, and am now
in good health.”
From Mr. William Pollock McAuslan, 10 Russell Place, North Williamstown, Vic.
“ Some eight years ago I was laid up with a very persistent attack of rheumatism, and although I
was under the care of a leading medical man, at the end of four or five months, instead of getting
better, I was growing gradually worse, and in the doctor’s own words ‘ would never make any perman-
ent improvement.’ Fearing that his words might come true, I refused to take his medicine any longer,
and, as a last hope, gave Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure a trial. From the
taking of the first dose I could see hope ahead, and in a very little while all pain had left me, and I
never had the slightest sign of any relapse until my complete recovery some seven weeks later. The
doctor’s words, thanks to Warner’s medicines, have not been verified, as from, that day, eight years
ago, to this, I have not had the slightest symptoms of that dreadful complaint.”
GOUT CURED.
From Mr. R. A. Thompson, Mining Engineer, 148 Adelaide Terrace, Perth, W.A.
“ When writing you some time back as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Pills in biliousness, I men-
tioned being about to try a course of Warner’s Safe Cure for gout. The result of taking the medicine
was simply wonderful, as many people in Perth can testify, and I speak gratefully of the benefit I
received. The action of the medicine was this : First, a gradual toning up of the stomach, then better
appetite, purer blood-making, and slow (at first) but sure disappearance of the gout. The food taken
during the course was plain but wholesome. lam glad also to tell you that many of my acquaintances
have derived great benefit from both the Safe Pills and the Safe Cure.”
LUMBAGO CURED.
From Mr. F. L. Seager, Waratah-street, Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
“ About six years ago I had an attack of lumbago, so severe that I could not walk for nine weeks.
I tried many medicines, porous plasters, and electric batteries, without material relief. My doctors
could do nothing for me. Hearing so much about Warner’s Safe Cure I decided to try it. After
taking the first bottle I felt greatly relieved, and started to walk again, and after taking eight bottles
I was completely cured. 1 have not suffered in any way since, and strongly recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure to anyone afflicted with a similiar complaint. I consider the medicine invaluable.”
SCIATICA CURED.
From Mr. James Spencer, 62 Queen-street, Fremantle, W.A.
“ Some years ago I was a fearful sufferer from sciatica. Most excruciating pain seized me, ex-
tending from the hip right down to the ankle. None but those similarly afflicted can imagine the
agony I endured. The pain deprived me of all sleep. My attention was called to Warner’s Safe Cure,
and I commenced to take it, deriving benefit after the first few doses. By the time I had finished four
bottles the pain had all vanished, and I could again get refreshing sleep. I have every reason to
believe that Warner’s Safe Cure has eradicated all rheumatic poisons from my system, as I have had
no return of the pain since that time.” [9]
When the Women Go Shopping.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I LIVE in a boarding-house— not the bong-tong ,
but respectable ;
There are women with babies, and fellows
with wonderful thirsts ;
A missus who frowns on the She-tliings with laces
delectable,
But doesn’t object to our mild periodical bursts.
’Tis a place where you part up a quid at the back
of the premises,
But twenty-five bob at the least if the front you
are stopping in ;
A place where the dinner is good (but the lunch is
a Nemesis),
In a street very close to a street that the women
go shopping in.
They go in a body—the permanent girls and the
travelling,
The wife with the baby, the missus, the daughter,
and all ;
And that evening there’s trouble, your path to
your bedroom unravelling,
For their parcels and boxes are stacked in a heap
in the hall.
You go to the parlor, quite humbly, but vainly
invoking room,
For Miss Smith and Miss Jones re the price of
some torchon are wrangling;
And in front of your favorite chair by the fire in
the smoking-room,
There’s a snowy-white pair of American thingum-
mies dangling.
Through smoking-room, dining-room, parlor and
hall you go aimlessly ;
There’s a scream and a flutter, a yell and a kick
and a run;
Where the fat, fair and forty Miss Biggs bares her
shoulders most shamelessly,
Oris tying Miss Biver’s patent suspenders “for
fun.”
Miss Bloggs, in a costume the church would regard
as lascivious,
Fits a hook to an eye at the spot where you last
were embracing her,
And the missus of dinner-hour wholly, completely
oblivious,
Holds her bust in her hands while her daughter,
all breathless, is lacing her.
Oh, those are the days when I wander far, far from
my habitat
To dine at a sixpenny l’estaurant rather than stay
Where the girl with the new parasol looks for
someone to jab it at,
And the Jaeger chemises lie boldly in everyone’s
way.
Legs, laces, and lingeries !—X-and-elevenpenny
cheapnesses !
Some next-the-skin mystery minute by minute
you’re dropping on;
You plumb what you never had guessed at of
feminine deepnesses
On the night that comes after the day that the
women go shopping on !
VIC.
LAM.
The Life Respectable.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How should I know I should love thee away,
When I did not love thee a-near ?
sang on the soft, complaining voice
LY'J that had the strayed note of a wild bird’s
in it. And I, sitting in the shadow, knew
that the woman who sang was thinking as much
of the everyday tragedy of the words as of the
fretful, plaintive melody. I could only see her
face in profile, where the light, shaded by its old-
gold silk, caught it. It wasn’t a strong face, and,
as I whispered to myself, scarcely a good one.
But then I have rarely seen an interesting face
which looked holy. But I always think a
woman’s profile is the best indication of her charac-
ter. Certainly this woman’s was. There was a
rebellious look about the short straight nose, and
a note of possible tragedy about the small sensi-
tive mouth —I could only see a corner of it and
that was turned down. I never like to see a
young woman’s mouth down at the corners. Of
course here in her own shaded drawing-room she
looked her best. I fancy it was here all her
dreams were dreamt. I seemed to feel them, from
the scent of the violets in their little vases to the
books which were scattered about ner-
vously. Yes, nervously is the word, for I
noticed that she read several different authors
at the same time, and that a pencil was
invariably stuck between the leaves. Dilettante
is the name by which she should have been
called—for from her broad, low brow and wide
brown eyes down to her always daintily-shod,
useless-looking feet, she was a product of the
twentieth century—modern, neurotic, uncertain
and out of conceit with herself.
I leaned still further back into the cushions of an
armchair and watched her—and thought her out.
I didn’t glance round her little room and pick out
trifles to indicate the woman. That is nonsense,
unless the woman is rich. Not one woman in a
thousand has the drawing-room she could wish,
nor the dress that she could design. Most
women have the drawing-rooms they can and
the dresses that they must. It was a dainty,
sweet, somewhat foolish little room, but I always
felt poetry the moment I entered it. She gener-
ally sneered at it, herself, but I know she secretly
loved it. It was her refuge—hers and her dreams.
I believe she had forgotten I was there, for I saw
some tears stealing down her cheeks, and I heard
them plash on the music as she held it in her most
beautiful of hands. I wondered what she was
thinking. I heard the cultivated, somewhat
monotonous voice of her husband in the
next room talking stocks and shares with
a kindred spirit. She stopped playing and
seemed to be listening too —and then I fan-
cied I heard a weary little sigh as the soft
hands wandered off into a nocturne of Chopin’s.
“What a calamity if she had married Chopin !”
I thought—but yet should she have married a
shopkeeper exactly ? I never got a hint of how
she felt about it herself, excepting those tears and
her quick glance towards the other room, and that
sigh. But, then, a woman’s sigh can mean so
many things.
Suddenly she wheeled round on the piano-stool
and glowered at me.
“Why?” I inquired somewhat feebly.
“You imagine you are in a dissecting-room ? ”
she flashed at me. How sympathetic and quick
the creature was !
“ And if I do, isn’t the corpse a beautiful one ? ”
I retorted, noting the delicate oval of her face
and the magic of her shining, high-piled hair.
“God knows, not to me ! ” she answered, and I
felt with a throb the utter weariness in her voice.
“Tell me,” I asked suddenly, “are you
unhappy ?”
Then I saw the loyalty of her spirit flash into
her brown eyes, and it fought with the truth.
Her reply was characteristic. “I think,” she
said, seating herself on the coucli and nursing her
knee, “ I am too much and too little of an artist
to ever be happy Do you understand me?”
she added with pathetic anxiety. One could tell
she was a woman who had accustomed herself to
repression and to being commonplace. If I had
never met her husband, I would have known just
the sort of man he was from the shy look in her
deep eyes. I knew that he wasn’t the sort of man
to whom she could unburden her strange, beauti-
ful, moody, fretful soul.
“Yes,” I answered thoughtfully, “I under-
stand.” She confided much in me. She felt I
knew, and sometimes unconsciously laid her soul
very bare.. It never occurred to her that I loved
her. If it had it would probably only have an-
noyed her. She held strange theories about love.
One was that a man could only love the woman he
could not marry—and that a woman only loved as
long as the man remained the lover. “Marriage,”
she would say with a shrug, “ marriage turns the
key upon the emotions —and no two human beings
can stand each other so absolutely at the mercy
of life’s humdrum worries. Marriage is the refuge
of people too lazy to quarrel with society.” I
thought that was rather neat, though I told lim-
it was merely flippant.
You might say that a good round of housework
with scrubbing thrown in would have done her
good. But you are quite mistaken if you imagine
that she never did any. That was the strange
part of her. She looked like an exotic, and would
sacrifice all of her strength to clean the house
rather than argue with a lazy servant. Above all
things she hated fuss and argument. She hated
public holidays because the streets were dis-
organised and people fussed, just as she hated the
wrong man to flatter her, because she hated in-
sulting people.
“What is wrong to-night?” I asked her, con-
tinuing our conversation.
“Will you promise to be intelligent?” she
began.
I nodded, wondering.
“I—l—want to lie loved!” she flashed out.
“ I’m sick to death of this respectable monotony.
Monotony is so—so —moral. I want to feci, to
live, to meet someone who will surprise me—
who will cure me of my indifference. Oh, you
do not know what life is for us respectable subur-
ban women of the one-maid, middle-class order.
Our husbands are gentlemen—so we are a cut
above gossip. We dare not hold converse with
our maids, and we must interview the butcher or
baker with aristocratic frigidity or else he despises
us. We’re not in society and we’re not out of it.
If we are young and appear twice with any
other man than the one we have a legal excuse
for tying up to ourselves, we are not respectable,
and not to be respectable in the middle class !
my God ! ” She was white with the passion of her
outburst. “Oh, my dear man,” she went on, “if
you men only knew how utterly sick we grow of
this one perpetual man, how we begin to dread
the same joke, the same expression of opinion, the
same reprimand—this cooped-up life, this domes-
tic code of morals, this one constant effort to give
a growling, tired man something different for his
dinner every day!” She clasped her hands
behind her head and looked at me sombrely.
“Oh, I know what you would say —the crea-
ture is probably as tired of it as we are? Not
he ! Most men have finished consuming their
smoke long before they marry. Do you suppose
that any of us women believe that we are the
first choice of our husbands? Do you suppose
that any of us imagine for a moment that the
game is being fairly played—or that we have
anything to teach them ? ” She leaned forward,
looking hard at me. “Do you really imagine that
we would expect to satisfy the creatures if they
hadn’t exhausted most of their capacity for passion
before they settle down. Settle down ! ” she re-
peated with fine scorn. “ Why the very expres-
sion is a woman’s death knell. He has settled
down—finished. We have never had the chance
to commence” —
“ What exactly do you mean by ‘ commence’ ?”
said I, looking steadily at her.
Again came that old battling look of mystery
into her eyes. “It is so helpless trying to explain
to a man ! ” she said, despondently. “ I mean to
live, to feel; to have things happen that one
doesn’t expect. Oh,” said she, brushing her hair
back, impatiently, “I can understand women like
George Sand and George Eliot. It’s the monotony
of the life respectable which drives women to the
—the devil.”
“ I suppose you know that it is fairly dangerous
for you to tell me these things ? ” I said, balancing
a pencil nicely in my hand.
“For Heaven’s sake, why ?” said she, the pout
leaving her mouth.
“ Because I love you,” I answered, quietly.
I watched her carefully. At once I saw the
British look of resentment flash in her wifely eyes
—it fought with another look which read gratified
vanity and startled wonderment—and then came
the mystery clouding them over again. She
didn’t say, “How dare you !” or anything like
that. She never did say the expected thing,
bless her! I couldn’t quite read her this time.
Her face had whitened, that I will swear !
“Do I quite deserve that ? ” she said, enigmati-
cally.
“For God’s sake, don’t take it amiss, dear,” I
said, hurriedly. She looked almost ravishing in
her pale aloofness.
“Do you really believe I want to go to the
devil ? ” she asked—the dear, inconsistent woman.
“ As if any man could ever fathom a woman ! ”
I said irrelevantly.
“Yes, that is what makes us so lonely ! ” she
said, catching up with niy thought in her usual
way.
“You know,” she said, with a pretty, little,
confiding movement, “we women are not really
bad, but we love dramatic moments.”
“You didn’t seem to revel much in the one I
offered you a moment ago,” I said, resentfully.
“I —didn’t dare!” she said—and I heard a
swish of draperies. She had left the room. I
wonder what she meant ?
HELEN JEROME.
Into an Adelaide tram-car, the other day,
there entered an English stranger, who was thus
attired : Light-brown suit, of rough twetd, with
skin-tight pants turned up at the ankles because
it was raining at Peckham Rye, and damp at the
Elephant and Castle ; brilliant red tartan shirt,
with stiff cuffs and a pale-green flannel collar
with stripes of darker green herringboned with
white, and fastened in front with a gold brooch,
Cap to match the suit.


A. ®> F.
f
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
©tic®
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd #
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Limited.
The Land of No-Return.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OGILYIE dropped his rein over the
broken post at the shanty door, and
walked into the bar. The sweating heat
of a Westralian mid-day flooded the plains and
the dusty scrub, and oozed in greasy blotches
along the two-foot bottle-marked boarding. Stench
of stale beer, and tobacco, and painkiller, and the
other things wherewith Ikey Davis made up his
drinks fouled the wattle-scented air blowing
th rough the window, and from the room behind came
the sound of drunken quarrelling. But Ogilvie
knew all this of old. He nodded to the badly-
built, coarse-faced man picking his teeth with a
nail in the corner by the bottles, and leaned both
arms on the bar.
“ ’Day, Ikey,” he said. “ Lord, I'm dry ! ”
Ikey straightened with a grunt, and pushed a
glass forward.
“Usual, I s’pose?” he said, fiddling among the
bottles.
“ Yes ... where’s Tom ? ”
“ Fired. Weren’t sober oust a week, he weren t.
I done wi’ barmen. More blazin’ bother’n they’re
worth. I got my darter up now, Ogilvie. She’ll
bring custom around all right. My oath, she will.
Ogilvie lifted his eyebrows. He had seen things
at the shanty of a Saturday night and a Sunday
that had made him more than a little sick. And
there were not many accused Ogilvie of squeamish-
ness at this portion of his life.
“ Must be a strong-minded lady,” he said ; and
then his head went back slowly as the glass-
bottom rose.
“She got ter be,” said Ikey, curtly. ‘ Spends
m°st on her time cryin’ now, the little I
tells her as she orter be glad ter do suthin’ fur- her
ole daddy after all the years o’ schoolin’ I guv
her. But there ain’t no gratitood in this airth,
there ain’t. Here she are. . . Blossom, what yer
want bringin’ that truck ter litter round in here,
eh?” . • .
Ogilvie wheeled with lazy interest in his good-
looking face. Then he started in blank amazement.
The girl in the doorway was sweet, with yellow
hair, and as delicate as the branch of wattle in her
hands, and the pale print frock covered a length
of slim figure that a man could span with his arm.
Her eyes were the blue of the sea, which was
something very different from the sun-bleached
sky overhead, and the very purity of her made
Ogilvie wrath. He flung his anger at Ikey Davis,
standing upright with his broad cabbage-tree
thrust back.
“You old sinneri What in damnation d’you
mean by bringing that girl up here ? Here ! what
are you going to do with her when the boys come
in on Saturday nights ? What are you ” ?
Ikey was accustomed to men in all moods. He
had lived largely for his years.
“That’ll be yer business when I goes roun’
askin’ fur yer opinion. My darter’s got ter see
life fur herself, an’ where’d she see it better than
wi’ her ole daddy, eh, Blossom ? ”
He put his hand to the slender shoulder and
drew the girl close. The quiver of the soft lips
stung Ogilvie.
“Where would she see it worse, you mean?
Good God, man, if we’ve all got a bad side, and
if we’re damned fools enough to let you bring it
out of us, is that any reason why you should have
this girl up to see? Send her away, if you’ve got
any feelings of a man left in you ! ”
“Jes’yer run’long ter yer room, Blossom .. .
now, yer see here, Ogilvie. She’ll hev a chanst
ter learn what yer an’ , men like yer looks like
when you ain’t expectin’ comp’ny, an’ that won’t
do her no ’arm in the long run. A gell’s too easy
took in wi’ a handsome face an’ a slick tongue.
Blossom won’t be one of them fools be the time
she’s done wi’ the shanty.”
Ogilvie turned on his heel, his face darker.
“So long,” he said, without comment, and
went out.
* * * •
The slip-rails dividing Ikey’s land from the
loose bush were down, and Blossom stood by
them, breathing as one who has run fast. She
spoke as though she had keyed herself to it, and
her voice was childishly round.
“ I don’t know what you were talking about to
Daddy,” she said. “I don’t understand. I—l
ought to love to be with him, you know ; but —
but—there were two men in the bar-parlor, and
I think”—-her words were a whisper now—
“I think they were drunk. They—they fright-
ened me.”
Ogilvie’s smile was twisted.
“You’ll have to get accustomed to that. You
will see drunken men every day—and every night.
You have no right to be here, you know. Fellows
are not too particular when they get away beyond
civilisation and hope.”
“I wanted to ask you,” she put her little frail
hand on his arm, “ I wondered if, perhaps, you
thought I shouldn’t be here, you know. I won-
dered if you’d ask Daddy to—to take me away.
He could get me work in town or —or some-
where.”
“’Fraid I couldn’t do anything. He’s making
too much money out here. I’m sorry ; but it’s
outside my jurisdiction. Just make your father
understand that you won’t serve in the bar
Saturdays and Sundays. Tell him now, or he
might not understand when the time comes.”
She did not. Ogilvie saw that by her answer.
“I am not afraid of my Daddy, thank you.
Will—will you be down at the week-end ? ”
“Yes,” said Ogilvie, and laughed shortly.
“Oh, I’m glad ! I’m so glad ! Then you—of
course, my Daddy wouldn’t let anyone be rude to
me if he knew—but to-day ... oh, if you’re there
you won’t let anyone be rude to me ? ”
The brandy and the merciless, unshaded sun
glowed fire-hot in Ogilvie’s blood. He stooped to
her, and the nearness of the innocent child-face
tempted all but over-much. Then the honor yet
left in the man jarred him. He tightened the
reins on the wither, and lifted his foot slowly to
the stirrup. “If I’m not too drunk myself,” he
said, steadily. “ There is always that proviso.”
Then he rode away through the lean, twisted
gum-trees and over the flats to his selection. .
Where a bush-pub. sits as hub of a district
blasted with drought, and cursed with Promise
Unfulfilled, there lies the Land of No-Return.
Ogilvie knew it, and many another man knew it.
But the breath of the scorching wind, the aching
desolation of dried, dusty grasses rustling on far,
far sandhills, the mockery of the dancing mirage—
these overset a man’s balance through the strait
years, and he does not think any more of the
future or the past. There is the bush pub. for the
present,’and that suffices.
Saturday blew in with a parching west wind,
blind with dust. Rivers and creeks were drying,
and dead stock stank among the mallee. bringing
crows and dingoes from the ranges. Ogilvie fell
in with young Trennock on his way down to the
shanty, and young Trennock said :
“Rather good biz in old Ikey to bring his
daughter up, isn’t it ? ”
A sudden vision of the yellow-headed gu'l witn
the piteous eyes shook Ogilvie.
“ Think so ? ” he said, curtly.
“Well, rather—if she’s got any style. Did you
see her ? Oh, you did ? Like her father, eh ? ”
“No,” said Ogilvie. Then he looked at the
half-baked lump of English youth beside him.
“Just now you’re thinking it manly to make a
brute of yourself with the rest of us, Trennook,
he said. “I wish you’d pull in before it’s too
late. Some of us are past it. You’re not.’’
Young Trennook stared. He moved his
shoulders sulkily, kicking his horse faster over
the naked stones.
“ Half my cattle are down with the pleuro, and
the sheep won’t be worth skinning. Give a
fellow a chance to bury his skeleton somehow.
And there’s only one way out here. Tliats
damned slow, too. Perhaps lkey’s daughter may
liven things up a bit.”
Ogilvie opened his lips, bit them, and fell
silent. A slow resolve formed in him under the
grey gnarled gums and the golden wattles where
the magpies sang their good-nights. He held to
it in the bar, where twenty men foregathered
with rough talk that grew vivid through the
hours. Blossom was not there. For so much
Ogilvie thanked Heaven. Nor was she in the
eating-room, where the Chinese cook set the
steaming meats, and Von Bildar, the one boarder,
rescued his table-napkin from Brassey with a dis-
gust for which Brassey claimed instant satis-
faction. .
Then the bar filled again, and swift twilight
gave place to yellow moonlight and a breathless
sweating heat that overlay all things. On the
wide wooden verandah Rommany was playing his
violin, and the music of it drew men out to beat
time unsteadily, and to break in with snatches of
unlicensed song. Beyond the streak of light from
the bar Ogilvie was watching the night. Once
something moved in the lignum down by the
verandah end. It moved again, and Ogilvie
went over, his heart-strings tightening at the low
sobbing where a little white figure was crouched.
“What is it, Blossom? Has anything hurt
you?” , .
She came to her feet swiftly, shrinking away.
“It was only the music. I’m going in. Let me
pass, please.” ' ,
“Wait a minute, Blossom. Ive been here for
five hours, and I’ve not touched anything stronger
than soda water. I don’t mean to if I can help
it; so if you want anything call on me, will
you?” . .
She drew a long breath, raising her eyes
earnestly.
“Then you didn’t mean what you said before?
Ogilvie’s skin was hot, and his tongue burnt
with desire of denial.
“Yes, I did mean it. But not this time, I
think, Blossom. It’s too hot in the house, and too
noisy. Gome down to the creek, where the fire-
flies are.” . . .
Ikey was a strong man in his own dominion,
and, for reasons of his own, he made of Sunday a
more decorous day than many of his customers
had known. He gave his explanation at the sad-
dling-up, to clip words of complaint.
“Goin’ ter break me darter in gentle, I am.
She won’t be mindin’ a bit o’ row be next week.
But she went ter prayer meetin’s down ter town.”
“ Let ’er ’old one ’ere,” said Baxter, mounting
carefully. “We’d all turn up, old chap, you
bet.” . .
“ I bet yer would, ” said Ikey, grinning, W ell,
I’ll think about it. Some of yer be along m a
night er two, eh ? ”
Ogilvie worked through that week, the devil of
drink fighting in him with memory of Blossom by
the creek. For the first time his soul had brushed
against undefiled maidenhood, and he was stirred
and shamed to the core. Saturday midday, Satur-
day evening held him still to his slab hut behind
the log fence. But with the first arrow of moon-
light over the naked distance the craving over-
mastered him, and he flung gear on his mare with
hurried hands.
“If I don’t go down I’m no use to her. If Ido
go I’ll be no use to her. Well, it’s Ikey’s business,
not mine. And a man may as well drink while he
can, for he dies to-morrow in any case.”
Rommany was very drunk that Saturday night;
and when he was drunk he played with an angel
and a devil to pluck the strings. In the bar, on
the verandah and the clearing beyond, men drank
and quarrelled, and shouted fitfully, falling head-
long to sleep where they lay. Behind the bar
Ikey was busv, quick-tongued and grinning, and
dull eyes of soul-trouble brightened, glowed, and
dulled again, as the varied poisons began to work.
Ogilvie walked in with a dogged despair on him.
Hours later he rolled out to the moonlight cal-
ling for Blossom, until a snoring heap tripped him.
He rolled to the verandah-rim, and slept there;
and gradually the silence of a drunken peace grew
over the shanty, and the moon went down behind
the fretted lace of tree-tops against the sky.
The first pink of dawn and the first sleepy note
of a magpie brought Blossom out seeking Ikey.
The night through she had listened for the open-
ing of his room door. The night through she had
huddled on the bed-foot, shivering at that which
she heard through the scrim walls, and making
her little prayers broken through by sobs. The
utter quiet came as the ending of a nightmare;
then the pure magpie call, threading along the
pure sky of a Sunday morning, gave her courage,
and she pushed open her door to the faint uncer-
tain dawn in the passage.
Without the house lay that which it was not
good for Blossom to see. " But she held with both
hands to the uprights of the verandah door, and
looked on it, wide-eyed. Young Trennook slept
out on the dusty grass, sharing a soiled blue roll
with the swagman who owned it. The cruel heat
of the night had left his hair and his white face
damp with sweat, and his beardless lips fell
childishly apart. Another lay on the gravel at
his foot, with an arm coiled under the fair head.
Across the rotten steps sprawled a great-limbed
bullocky, and the whispering dawn flicked on his
blotched face and hairy chest. In the doorway of
the little room at the verandah-end a man moved
with a snore and a stertorous choke ; and another
and yet another showed in the crumpled heap of
the dead-drunk along the verandah boards. Ikey
slept peacefully in a long chair, five yards off,
and Blossom went to him in stumbling fear and
horror, walking as one might walk between the
door-plates of hell. Her foot touched an open
hand that was Ogilvie’.s, her skirt brushed
Ogilvie’s gay careless face before she saw. Then
she caught her hands suddenly to her breast.
“ 0h...y0u ! ” she cried with a little piteous sob.
And she went in with knees shaking, and brought
her pillow ; lifting his head to it fearfully and
very gently. The sun fell broadly on the tumbled
hair and the loosened flannel collar, and the dull-
ness of the half-shut eyes. She hung a newspaper
over the verandah rail to hide all this from the
light, and crept back to her room, dazed with a
grief that she did not understand.
There was no man this side the ranges' could
adulterate his liquors with greater profit to him-
self than Ikey, and the verandah awoke slowly
under the merciless sun, cursing or sulky, each
man according to his breed, and crawled into the
bar with dried mouth and clipped speech.
Ogilvie carried the pillow down the passage to
Blossom, and the cheerful, amorous smile of the
half-drunk was on his good-looking face.
“Silly little girl,” he said, taking her hands.
“Th-thought I’d sleep sweeter, eh? Dream o
you ’n’ that ldn' o’ thing ? Ne-never needed a
pillow for that, Blossom —little Blossom. ’. . .
Tears were thick on the girl’s eyelashes. Ihe
common drunks whom Ikey hunted out of the bar
with curses and a heavy boot had grown hatefully
familiar with her in this short while. But
Ogil vie, with the winning charm that had hurt
more women than he knew, had been something
so widely different —until last night.
“ I saw you.” .. . she whispered. ‘ You . Oh
.. . what makes you do it? You—of all men ! ...
Ogilvie blinked, trying to pull himself together.
Some note in her voice caught him on the raw.
“Think I’d tell?” he said. “Th-thmk any
flow tells? We—we’re all in the same boat,
bless vou. A hell o’ memory an’ same ol’ silly
gum-trees an’ snakes—never s-saw snakes f’r a
long time. You see any snakes ? No ? W -well;
that’s it. Hell all day, and Heaven through the
bottom of a glass. Don’t b-blame me, little girl.
It’s all right. There’s no way back, you see.
Once you fin’ that out, you’re a’ right. N-no way
back any more.” _ .
Blossom was sobbing, and a pain in her heart
made it seem suddenly as lead. .
“You can give it up. Oh, you can ! Oh, isn t
there anything I can do ? ... If I could help you.
Ogilvie rocked on his feet. But into his eyes
ran a pain and horror that was far beyond her
understanding. . , ■
“Help? Wha’ I want with help, little girl?
I c-came to help you. S’pose any fellow rude to
you... ‘ Bid me to die and I will dare e’en Death
to die for thee.’ ’Member that ? No ; that was
another girl...ne’er mind. Blossom’
The drink was acting on him by waves. He
grew suddenly saner. “ When you’ve seen a bit
more you won’t talk of helping a fellow like me,
or Tod Ireson, or half-a-dozen more of us, Blossom.
H-hold your pretty little white skirts away,
girlie, and go and pick your flowers.” .. .
“I can’t,” she cried, wildly. “leant now.
I—know too much ”
Ogilvie was looking down on her strangely.
Then he gathered her up and kissed her.
“You poor little girl,” he murmured. “It
didn’t take you long ; you poor little girl. It is
the Devil himself made you care that much,
Blossom.” .
“No—no. I couldn’t help it. Just when 1
first saw you... oh, I think I’d give my soul to
to do you any good.” . , , ,
Ogilvie put her from him, and his quick laugh
grated. ,
“ You’re not very wise to offer me that. And
I don’t fancy your father is as wise as he thinks
himself, either. Blossom, come up the creek
before the sun is too hot, and you shall tell me
how you would help me.”
Out on his selection, through the after days and
weeks, Ogilvie drove posts in the red sandy sou,
and hunted his sick cattle out of the stinking
water-holes and the scrub where they lay to die,
and carried whisky in his canvas-bag when his
work called him over the bleached grasses into
the teeth of a wind blown straight from the
Nethermost Pit. Down at the shanty, Blossom
endured the heat and the flies, and the swaggies
and bullockies and drovers, who made rough
jokes when she served them in the bar, and
the coarse-talk and the squabbles that the thin
scrim walls did not smother, and the desolation
and the sordid dirt ot all things. But the long,
clear, hot evenings and nights brought payment—
when Ogilvie took Ikey’s daughter through the
sliprails and down the side-track of Love, with
her innocent prayers about his feet and the reck-
lessness of dead Hope in his soul.
There was a row in the bar one night—a row
that even Ikey’s curses could not quell. Dick
Mullins began it. He flung a taunt at Ogilvie
through the haze made by hot breaths and by
smoke across the bleared faces, and it was not a
taunt that a sober man might hear unmoved.
Ogilvie was not sober. He had slaved five days
in the blistering sun with no whisky within
coo . ee _this for a promise given to Blossom—and
the result had been very evil.
He sprang for Dick with his tense face sud-
denly white round the blazing eyes, and Ikey cleft
a lane through the crowd, chucking out the
gripped bodies to settle it on the dried grass
beyond the verandah. Here, with a great gold
moon and glowing globes of stars to watch, a
swift ring was tirade, and the men squatted down
to barrack and to keep keen eyes for fouls.
Ogilvie was purely mad, and he battered Hick
unscientifically, until Dick felt round for his
sheath-knife. Tod Ireson saw, giving warning m
a shout that brought Ikey out liot-foot. But
another was swifter, darting beneath the crowd-
ing shoulders of the men as a sea-martin darts,
fastening on Dick’s mighty bulk wild-cat fashion
—then sliding down like foam sliding back from
Ikey’s curse died on his mouth as he broke the
ring. But it was Ogilvie’s hands that were
stickily hot with the blood pumped out by each
heart-throb from the gash in Blossom’s soft neck.
Ogilvie was three-parts drunk, and liis head was
reeling. He knocked Ikey aside with a blow
from the shut red fist. .
“ She’s mine,” he said ; “ didn’t you know it.
Blossom, speak to me ! Blossom ! ”
Someone pulled him away directly, and some-
one else said: “Let Ikey carry her into the
house. No—it won’t hurt her now.”
Ogilvie’s dazed eyes turned to the flare of light
in the bar, and the flicker thrown from grouped
bottles and glasses.
“Brandy,” he said. “Is there any brandy?
And he stumbled back to the devil that called
him.
G. B. LANGASTER.
A Kaiapoi (M.L.) individual with a monu-
mental thirst has had a prohibition order renewed
against him seven years in succession, and when
application was made to have it re-issued for the
eighth time, he opposed most vociferously. The
beak, however, smilingly granted the order. An
unusual case was that of a North Canterbury con-
tractor who was under the liquor law. He took a
contract for altering a pub. in South Canterbury,
and started work. One day he was invited to the
opposition hotel in connection with alterations con-
templated there, and while he was giving an esti-
mate, a policeman who had known him in Christ-
church handed him a couple of summonses for
being on two sets of licensed premises during the
currency of an order. He was fined, and told that
if he must take contracts to alter licensed pre-
mises, he should direct operations from the outside.


Lost flesh rapidly, was greatly weakened, took
quantities of medicine, failed all the time. Was
quickly cured by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
|o
“Some time ago I had a very
severe attack of influenza which
left me greatly weakened. I lost
flesh rapidly, and was in a very
bad way. I took quantities of
medicine, hut grew constantly
worse. Finally, I tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, and began to im-
prove from the start.
“ I took about six bottles and
was perfectly cured. I have used
this remedy in my family a great
deal and I know it to be a thor-
oughly reliable, health-giving
compound and family medi-
cine.”
Mr. John Murrell, railway
station master, of Sunnybank,
Queensland, sends us this letter, together with his photograph, which
we reproduce above. , v
This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt, ion
ought to profit by it greatly; for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are
without appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and
certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood, and you are suffering from
headache, boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, or rheumatism. If
you are suffering from weakness of any kind, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will
restore to you strength and energy, and will make life the better
worth living. Be sure you get
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
There are a great many substitute Sarsaparillas on the market that will disap-
point you. Avoid imitations.
Prepared by DB. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowed, Mass., U. S. A.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
FACED CERTAIN DEATH.
MAN SLOWLY TORTURED FOR YEARS.
RESCUED IN THE NICK OF TIME.
(A REMARKABLE INTERVIEW.)
“Yes, indeed, I have much to thank
science for,” said Mr. Albert Jewell, of
Illabo, N.S.W., when approached on the
question of his wonderful recovery from a
stomach complaint of many years standing,
and which daily threatened his life.
44 1 have spent a great deal of my life in the
field, as farming has always been my voca-
tion, and for years I was continually tor-
tured by the most excruciating headaches
from which a man could suffer. As a
laborer in the Lord’s field also, being inter-
ested as I have for years, and an ardent
member of the Salvation Army, you can
readily understand how miserable was my
existence when I add that not alone did I
suffer from headaches, but my stomach
came near to ending my days many times.
You would hardly credit how a man can
suffer with his stomach and still survive. At
times I have been out on my horse when the
pains would come .on, and I could only get
relief by quickly dismounting and rolling on
the ground. These attacks would sometimes
only last for a few minutes; sometimes I
would feel the acute effects for hours, and I
was always in daily terror of serious conse-
quences.
“ Like many other sufferers, I tried all sorts
of remedies, but with little or no effect, until
I happened to hear of that wonderful remedy,
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electic Belt. I looked up
their advertisement, wrote to them, also com-
municated with some of their former patients
whose cure they reported to me. I sent the
Company a careful description of my com-
plaint, and received from them a few days
later a most concise, careful, and elaborate
diagnosis of my complaint. They explained
carefully the cause and effect of each symp-
tom. They told me the relative effect of
Electricity on the individual symptoms, also
stating which symptoms would not be
affected by electric treatment otherwise than
to fall into line of recovery as the principal
troubles disappeared.
“To make a long story short, I got the
Belt I was advised to have, wore it carefully
as they directed me from time to time, and
after three months I had scarcely any of the
old complaints left.
“ Six months of the treatment saw me a
well man, and you may be sure that to-day
lam a happy man. I have put in the past
three and a half years since I first got the
Belt hard at work on my farm, and I can
never pay my debt of gratitude to the Dr.
McLaughlin Co.
“ I forgot to tell you that before having a
diagnosis made of my complaint I had sent
for one of the Company’s free books.* That
book was a revelation to me. It opened my
eyes to the value of Electricity as a curative ;
it showed me clearly how, if I was to obtain
any relief at all from my trouble, I would
have to use Electricity. I have proven every
word of the claims made^n^its_pages^
“My advice to every sufferer is, send for
the free book, give a careful statement of
your condition, study the diagnosis carefully,
weigh its words with your condition, analyse
every portion of it. If you are sceptical, get
into communication with several of the cured
patients, whose names and addresses the
company can supply you in hundreds. If
the Specialists advise you that they can cure
you, you need have no hesitancy in following
their advice, for they know their skill, and
when they say that Dr. McLaughlin’s Elec-
tric Belt cures Weak Men, they speak from
their honest convictions.
“ In conclusion, I reiterate, if you suffer
from Rheumatism, Lumbago, Indigestion,
Constipation, Varicocele, Weak or a Run-
down System, Nervousness, Sciatica, or In-
somnia, send for their free book, “APPLIED
ELECTRICITY,”* and study their remark-
able method.”
FREE BOOK I FREE ADVICE!
#The book that Mr. Jewell speaks of is published by us for the express purpose
of acquainting sufferers, living at a distance, with the minute details of our remedy.
“APPLIED ELECTRICITY” is now in its sixth edition, over three hundred
thousand copies having been given away during the past four years.
If we could convince you in this newspaper article of the value to YOU of this
book, you would gladly pay two guineas for it. It is free for the asking. Write for
it to-day, or call at our office, and we will be glad to explain the Belt, and also give
you the book. Consultation and advice are always free. Hours, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
dr. McLaughlin
Y' JTn A ■ ’ '-, •
■■
■i
90 WILLIAM STREET, PERTH, W.A.
idmiii nuns mum*
M'S'N ‘A3NOAS
imm ‘MOOI
&
Tkere’s
We like
no F
gg^nOM£
V
w,
"3
M
a
1
y/?S
|U- |i—(j
Xj
H
amdl
no kome
is complete witkout
I
TKe f\&ntdy s
HOWe I^MCDY.
gp
Hr
wp
/vy PATENT
PIL*L«S
PKI?E IS. IfD
■ Sold by tli* Proprietor
ST. HELENS
IAMCASHIRB ENGLAND.
JE=3
P 5
m
136
13/6
A NELLIE STEWART BANGLE, in Solid Gold
h
We used to charge 20/- for this beautiful
article. Then we improved our methods
of manufacture and were able tc reduce the price to 15/- Now to
the thousands we make —we can lupply exactly the same Bangle for 13/b,
ANGUS <& COOTE.
A Capital Present
for a Lady.
The Reform Price Jewellers,
492 GEOEGE ST., SYDNEY,
Q.V. Market*.
the Trail of the
CY ' •'
. Price
POST FREE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atronhv Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
thecase’may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CUREDwe charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
1 Write To-day.
Address: HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
DEAF
The New retent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter o!
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
ews. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Aftdma—A. M. NABT, 145 Collins St,, Mtlboanw,
Consult PR. MARTIN,
The Old Established, Reliable
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
MEN
NO
WOMEN
A 60-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S Great Work on the
Diseases of Men and Women, contains 34 Illustrations and
Colored Plates. Write To-day for it. POSTED FREE.
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you
apply to him now a copy will be Posted Free for 3s. This
Magnificent Medical Work oontains 692 pages Crown Bvo., over 500
Prescriptions, 60 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautifully
Four-Colored Plate—the most interesting, up-to-date and reliable
Medical Work Published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of men
and women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books
advertised FREE TO THE PUBLIC. It is a complete Encyclopaedia
of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-standing,
chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book
has ever been published.
PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT
A limited number of Resident
Patients received. Terms Moderate.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO—
DR. MARTIN, M.D. JftSK
[Please mention this paper when writing.]


GOLOSHES
h
“ The Iceland Beacon ”
Pure Gum, Roiled Edge.
Hen’s - -6/- per pair
Boys’ - -5/- per pair
“THE BEACON
Pure Gum.
Men’s - -5/- per
(Also at 3/11)
Women’s - 3/9 per pail
(Also at g/ll)
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.'ii
270 George St., Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIfiARFITFS
ĥ
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
MATT’
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
PLATE
and
CUTLERY
MARK.
r«asu
WOLF
07
Max
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
“ THE block;,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance ntted with Electric Elevator.
J. &.J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool SEND TO
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
■■ VALUES »_SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ħ
h
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
■
TINTARA
WINES. .
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
Th? above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or yuarnes. Weight about I.Blb , Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills,
SOLE AGENTS: \jf O . [ CMppiEDE 506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
"♦ * U>l LCl »rnicnc t And at 64 . PITT ST f Sydney.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES/”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., «<*•.
60 CLARENCE ST„ SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan and Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
m m FOR ■ •
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
ill
famgm¥iig^.ii,nßiiaaß'g»r a waT»3ii»ac?c
iihumuiiiiwiiiiiiiiiiiuhh
Fred Metiers & Co
® >?
■
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rund/e St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
NOVEL PRESENT.
VJI/'ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. Bct Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5•/-. In 15ot. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-.
Illustrated Catalog-ue sent Free.
Rm SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s Book Arcade,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
CARD ORE CONCENTRATOR.
We claim for this table a 50 per cent, greater capacity, higher concentrates, and lower Tailings
than any other table, a much greater dressing area, much less chance of losing concentrates,
perfectly even surface when working on account of it being mounted on the Patent track-rods,
never runs hot because of the large bearing surface and good workmanship. The table is easily
adjusted, and requires very little attention.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.
OLE SALES
AGENTS,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, and
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
