

Ell
—A,, A
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
I£. G. WATKINS SC, CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS Asm GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AKO SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ď
BELT DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTOR.
HOBART.
•
fiadleys Orient jjotel.
is
PIONEER
LEATHER
E LT INC
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C. Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents eor BROADBENT’S HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
DIRECT STEAM, BELT and ELECTRICALLY DRIVEN for DRYING WOOL, MEAT-REFUSE, SALT,
SUGAR, CHEMICALS, LAUNDRIED GOODS &C.
For Particulars apply to GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
śd
back
fake
it
have
must
s
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
’§
ďs
Resist
FIRE.
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Paper Merchants & Wholesale Stationers,
(Temporary Offices) 439 Kent Street, Sydney, 6th April, 1906.
The Manager, Chubb’s Australian Co., Ltd., 164 Clarence Street.
Dear Sirs, — It affords us much pleasure to advise that the two strong room
doors which were installed by you some years ago at our Clarence-street ware-
house have come through the fire of last Saturday to all intents and purposes
uninjured, and, as far as fire damage is concerned, the contents of the strong
rooms are intact. With compliments, we remain,
Tours faithfully, EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO., LIMITED,
(Signed) William P. Dunlop.
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
1
Economy in Oorrknt.
Equality of Lioht.
THE
EDISON & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
16 Carrington Street
Wynyardi Square,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dapdtc
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE
all,
u
y c
“TO THY SPEED ADD WlNGS.”— Milton.
A 1 TYRES
Are the Wings that
give Speed to the
Twentieth Century
Motor or Cycle.
Unsurpassed for Durability & SYDNEY Address : 225 Clarence St.
ds
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
—
d
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
3T
**?•
HO
fIV
TEA!
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY. I:Kr BQTTLB'W
IKT BOTTLE
m
■■■■■■
.
OIL
No Other in
the World .
ENGINES
EQUALS
‘SIMPLEX’
IRRIGATING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
Efficiency
Durability
Eoonomy.
|no Worry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
(
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue.
E. Coulson
116 a’Beckett St.,
MELBOURNE.
BROS.
“VESUVIO” MACARONI
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 COPPIN ST.*
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
§jp§ innN SPA Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER
1 I Kin Bn 1 m to <3-C>X»XaI3Xr <3z CO; -A.gjeaa.'t.s.
The Bulletin
Vol 27.—N0. 1372.]
[Thursday, May 31, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE JUNGLE,
By UPTON SINCLAIR.
Cloth 3s. 6d., postage 6d. extra.
A Tkrriblk hook. -The story of a Lithuanian tarn lv in Chico's “ Par»kin,ri««.„ »
blazing indictment of existing conditions which no one can read without cv.,.!; , More than this, it is a
JACK LON DON declares it is “ the ‘ Uncle Ton* <£££-of wige skS'» do •wneth’in* *
calls it “ the greatest novel written in America in fifty year*.” And* there are many ot her ? GBAHAM PHILLIPS
cant. An able lawyer was sent to Chicago to investigate “ PaMrino ,” , °tner comments equally shrnifi.
sure they could in.fairness publish the novel. His repo t amply verified th'eJmho?' S tl that . the Publishers might be
CECRGB ROORRTSO.V * CO. PROP. LTO., J, CASYL-RRaCH S YO«RY.
BETWEEN THE LIGHTS,
Verses by WILL LA WSON
(“ Quifft N.”)
The Age says “There is a freshness and vitality about Will Lawson’s book
CLOTH (Limited Edition) signed)
PAPER COVERS
of verses which is very welcome.”
ss.
2s. €3cl.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP 8. CO., LTD., Distribute
S' Agents.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great • ,
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For tub Cork op
Bronchitis !
ahd Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Conmumptlon.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says:—
“ Of great Service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES)
CONTAINS NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUG. Sold by all Chemists, in
. uuniHino nu vuvmiiic un uincn kuiounuuo ukuu. oOla Dy ail unemists, in /fins 1/6 or
nufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, post free on receipt of stai/ms ’ Svdnev
7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian States and N.Z., and at 320 Regent Streep London,
THE RED PAGE.
THE DANGEROUS DIARIST
IT was Shakespear who, following
Plutarch, wrote for Julius Caesar :
ai 6t ave ,nen about ine that are fat,
oleek-headed men, and such as sleepo’ nights.
Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look ;
He thinks too much: such men are dangerous.
One is reminded of Shakespear’s gloss by
‘old Jack Robertson,” quoted in some
political reminiscences of R. H. Levien,
M.L.A., printed in Syd. Telegraph, :
Henry Parkes had referred to some matter in a
speech m which he had taken some facts from his
diary, but old John Robertson said, “I do not
like diaries, they are very dangerous.” Mr. Levien
often quotes this, because he thinks that diaries
are dangerous in some cases, and he still declares
tnat men who keep diaries for their own purposes
are dangerous.
Dangerous why ? Dangerous when ? Dan-
gerous to whom ? What precisely did
Robertson and Levien mean ? As they were
politicians, one meaning is easily suggested.
A diary is a long memory, and a long memory
makes a dangerous opponent. It is like the
watchdog who never forgets the scent of a
thief he has once encountered. How very
awkward it is, when on the highest ground
of public principle you are advocating a poli-
tical measure, to be reminded that ten years
previously, on the loftiest ground of national
welfare, you denounced as monstrous the
ideals you are now supporting ! How
irritating to be confronted with the very
words—your own words—that form the
strongest possible argument against your
latest aspirations ! In the happy-go-
easy of local politics, with alliances
founded on common interest and cemented
in the friendly atmosphere of the re-
freshment - room, the man who quotes
your own speeches against you is clearly
dangerous. There is even, among hail-
fellows-well-met, something dastardly about
his resurrection of the corpse that you have
buried and forgotten, and that everybody
else has forgotten— except the man with the
diary written up before bedtime and read
over religiously on Sabbath evenings.
J*
iet how shall we keep now a diary in the
old seventeenth-century mode ?—when rank
was settled, travel was rare, and leisure was
ample. Then everybody was enjoined to
look into his heart and write ; and—luckily
for us many did. Shall we name Pepys
and Evelyn, or Browne and Aubrey ? With-
out diaries, and the works that have been
built on diaries, both literature and life would
sutler loss. Surely Jack Robertson would not
have found Pepys a dangerous man on account
of his diary. With him, as with many,
it was a kind of literary conscience. Pepys
confided to it his amours with the maid-ser-
vamts, his vows of reformation, and his con-
trition when the vows were broken in natural
course. Evelyn was a punctilious recorder
of the history that was making under his
eyes. To others, who seized fleeting ideas
presently meditated into literature, we are
under weighty obligation. Without Addi-
son’s three folio volumes of notes The
Spectator must inevitably have been shorn of
its glory. Pictures of life, pictures of men,
foundation-stones of literature—no, we
could not dispense with the diaries.
Their writers are the laborious corai
insects who have raised an island of
the Past above the ocean of oblivion. And
the lighter-minded, from Horace Walpole to
Mountstuart Duff, —how much gaiety we owe
them, and how little they were dangerous !
The diarist brings risk to reputations, maybe.
It is the loose things, said in unguarded
moments, that he loves to record— the things
one would willingly forget. Yes ; in that
view Jack Robertson may be justified : often
he talked unbraced and collarless. “Sed
major veritas ’’—and we like him none the
worse for it after all.
&
This is not a day of diaries, this is not the
country. We are too occupied, too bothered,
and too weary to give a regular quarter of
anjiour before an irregular bedtime to the
Recording Angel’s task. “Tom Collins”
has told how he keeps a mnemonic
diary ; and 10, for the fruit of it,
a book! —not, one hastens to add, a
book that by any stretch of language
can be denominated dangerous. A Maori-
land editor is alleged to keep a diary in a
row of locked and formidable volumes :
it will be worth reading ; and is he too
cautious to be dangerous ? The rare diaries
of journalists are professional things, and a
man must not be hampered in his calling.
Jack Robertson represented politics in shirt-
sleeves. Sagacious, illiterate, he muddled
along his course without a compass, guessing
his way by instinct, and relying on his star
—when he could see it. To him the admoni-
tory record was a reproach. The diary was
disciplinarian therefore dangerous and
how naturally he chose a D-word to express
his disgust; with it ! But Mr. Levien’s idea
of danger may be left for his own interpreta-
tion.
ERNST HAECKEL
WILHELM BOLSCHE’S Life of
Haeckel is translated by Joseph
McCabe, with an introduction and
ti j supplementary chapter, and pub-
lished with thirteen illustrations (including
several excellent portraits of Haeckel), by
1. Fisher Unwin (Lond. ; 15s. net. One
supposes that Haeckel’s name and work are
known to every reader. An assiduous and
combative German, he made valuable con-
tubutions to science ; but it is in his later
years, and as expounder of the rationalist
applications of science to problems of human
origin and development, that he has won
international celebrity. Without Darwin,
the thinker, brooder, generaliser, it does not
appear that he would have become more
than a scientific specialist, however high his
rank ; and without Haeckel, Darwin’s ideas
would still have failed to reach the minds
of many. Haeckel has played Luther
to Darwin s Erasmus. -He has been the
apostle that every teacher must find to
expound his doctrine to the multitude. His
honest and laborious life, now crowned by
esteem that is both scientific and general, is
necessarily of interest.
Bolsche, as biographer, perhaps has been
too familiar with his subject to do it fullest
justice. One needs to have read Haeckel’s
own writings (and indeed that reading is
almost a duty) in order to receive a complete
impression of the man. As far as can be
judged, the Life has been written with warm
German simplicity, occasionally passing into
enthusiastic rhetoric. The translation is
easy and lucid.
J*
Haeckel’s outstanding quality is hisexcep-
tional physical and mental energy. Born in
1834, he came of a vigorous family
stock. All his life he has been an open-air
man, fond of travel, not merely a student
of books. In the year that he opened
his Darwinian campaign he won a laurel
crown at Leipsic athletic festival for the
jump, with a leap of twenty feet. His
piysical strength seemed so inexhaustible
that his host, Engelmaun, put a pair of
leavy dumb-bells in his bed, in case he
should want to take exercise during the
night. When engaged with a scientific
expedition in Ceylon he reminded himself
that every day was worth a five-pound note,
ile refused to sleep long hours or take a
siesta ; rose at five in the morning ; and
used the hottest hoursipf the tropical day for
anatomical and microscopic work, observ-
ing and drawing, and for packing up the
material collected.”
Darwin’s genius was patience ; Haeckel’s
was energy. A man of many activities, he
did not at once find his true line. He
practised m medicine ; and he displayed so
great a talent for landscape-painting that
once he thought seriously of devoting him-
sell to 9/n artistic career.
What is perhaps his finest book, The
(.reneral Morphology of Organisms, was written
under the stress of a great sorrow. In 1864
his wife only in her twenty-ninth year, and
in the full force of mind and of love, suc-
cumbed to blood-poisoning. “I thought at
the time he says, “that I could not sur-
vive the blow, thought my life was closed
and purposed to bring together all the new
ideas that Darwin’s theory of evolution had
evoked in me m a last great work. That
was the origin, amid bitter struggles, of the
Lenerclle Morphologie. It was written and
punted in less than a year. I lived the life
of a hermit, gave myself barely three or four
hours _sieep a day, and worked all day and
haH the night. My habits were so ascetic
that 1 really wonder I am alive and well to-
day. '
Haeckel owed his scientific method to
Johannes Muller, and the inspiration of his
method to Darwin. Behind Darwin he saw
oethe. He insisted that Darwin’s collec-
tion of facts was but a stage in the logical
development of Goethe’s ideas, and he was
not content that the truth of those ideas
should remain a mystery of the study
bo in defiance of much obloquy and
not a little persecution, he set forth
as an antagonist of Virchow’s view that
science should let religion alone, reserving
knowledge for the elect and ignoring the
superstitions of the vulgar. In The Evo-
lution of Man and The Biddle of the TJni-
rerse he wrote awakening books that un-
doubtedly have helped thousands to a true
conception of human life. Strong agents in
the dissolution of old creeds, they are no less
hon?°afi lUl|I U1 |' 1 f Ug n P fche “ ew creed fch at all
LTo? Earth. 10 tom “ 1“ the
-9
* and Artist# Year-Boot: (Lond. A
Pmr B i, net) R veS names and addresses of
illustration-accepting 1 edito^^ouW
Kim. s'rtr "°" find ti,e
THE MEN WHO FAILED
Let me write of the Men Who Failed.
I look back, and I see them as roses—fragrant
and forgotten—lying in the path where the Bride
and the Bridegroom and the Bidden Guests have
passed by. I look back, and their joyousness,
their wit, and their warm hearts arc as faery
lights shining in the night of the dead past. I
look back, and in many lands I see cheir graves,
naked and without panoply of grief. Above each
grave memory has inscribed in the eternal ether
“ O Most Loveable.”
I am tired of the stern, hard faces of the Heroes.
The strenuous eyes of those who fearfully balance
themselves in the Seats of the Mighty are gloomy
wells, in whose dark depths a lonely stripped soul
The faces of the Men Who Failed are
soft. Their eyes are humanly shortsighted and
dreamy ; long ago they weakened straining to see
the distant white heights of Olympus. There are
sad lines set on their foreheads, but a saving
humour hides in the puckers about their eyes.
O Women ! This is the Law—that they shall
own your hearts. The breasts of the mothers
who have them ache for the Children of Promise
and the Men who Failed. Their wilfulness was
sweeter than the Just Son’s decent obedience.
Their love was warmer than the fires that the Up-
right Son pays for. Their flight was more bitter
than the Good Son’s death. As the altar to the
Unknown God, their unseen graves’ mysterious
charms are heart-holding as no monument of
marble.
The eyes of the women who loved them weep
no tears for the generosity that gave the freehold
of a life in exchange for the brief tenancy of a
heart. In the dark night, while the Man of
Virtue sleeps loudly, across the world from the
farthest haven comes that other. He has not
grown old. In his eyes dwells the sparkle of ex-
pectation. On his lips linger the songs of the
young soldier. His hair is moist with the morn-
ing dew of a glorious day. Jauntily he bears on his
shoulders wondrous-patterned paving-stones of
Hell. The eyes of the woman, waiting and
watching, tell her that this is but a shadow—the
shadow of what might have been. Her lips
murmur, “ O well beloved ! ”
&
0 men ! Tell me, which were the Good Days ?
Where are the Good Companions ? Whose hands
stretched out from the past are the most desired ?
Whose voices summon you again to the feast of
Youth ? I look into my own youth, and in a far-
off country I see a garden—an old, old garden of
ancient gnarled trees, and high, mouldering
walls—a garden of water-lilied pools and broken
terraces, of white flowers and boid golden-yellow
weeds. There is a table set in a summer-house,
whose roof bids us welcome to the evening
sun. Here the Good Companions sit. Ye
Gods! What conquerors! Poet, politician,
statesman, and warrior—dividing the earth,
and the glory thereof, upon the narrow, worm-
eaten board that served to bear the mugs of golden
ale—or was it elixir of Heaven ? The words are
“dead beyond recall.” The jests have echoed
across five continents into the outside lands. The
glorious plans died,—with the Poet in a Bowery
lodging-house,—with the Politician in a Commis-
sion of the Peace, —with the Statesman in the
bargains of an Island trader,—with the Warrior
in a nameless skirmish on the Yeldt. But
through the years comes the laughter,—an ether-
gram from the Good Days. To-night I drink
with them again. Dear lads ! good lads !
In the heavens there is a valley eternally bathed
in the first warm light of day. The sun of that
valley is Lucifer, Star of the Morning, fair, lost,
and most beloved.
In the depths of the valley there is a hall, built
of grey greenstone, warmer than agate, more
changing than opal. The entrance is an open
porch, surmounted with curious gargoyles, heads
with two laughing faces, angel and sprite.
Above the porch is written in purple, “The
Hall of the Most Loveable.” Within, no
mortal eye has ever seen such beauty. On the
walls and on the ceilings are pictures, the master-
pieces of Heaven. A mighty scroll entwines
them, telling, “Painted by the Men who Failed—
on Earth.”
The pavement of the hall is samite white, and
written on it in the immortal tongue are “ The
Thoughts that died unborn—on Earth.”
Pervading the vast hall is Sound, the music of
the Spheres—and-an angel voice proclaims “ The
Songs unsung—on Earth.”
There is a banquet set, and the guests are all
young. They talk ever of the Future. . Their
eyes glow ever with the ardour of to-morrow’s
great endeavour. Their cheeks are flushed with
an eternal joy of hope. Lightly praising the
Present, they know no Past. Gazing, I saw
among the Good Companions faces I knew as
the Mighty Dead. “Surely,” I questioned,
this is the Hall of the Great Immortals. How
come the Good Companions here? ”
lo which, one, with the noise of whose fame
and misery a continent once rang, replied, “They
raised me statues there on Earth, and men called
me Great. Yet knowing well that all that I
accomplished was but failure to my unaccom-
plished work, I entered here, where souls have
liberty eternally to carry failures to perfection.”
Then arose a glorious youth, his white brows
crowned with freshest laurel—the light of an
immortal genius illuminating his bright pres-
ence.
“To the Well-Beloved—To the men who
failed !” he gave the toast. ’T was Chatterton.
E. M. D.
ODDMKNTS
The Jungle, by U* ton Sinclair (N.Y., Double-
day, Page ; §1 50c.) is “a novel with a purpose. ” It
snows what may happen to a man in America—
not what does happen to the average man; and
pleads for a Socialist government to prevent the
unpleasant happening. The Socialist party, de-
clares the author, “ had started its first news-
paper in Japan, and elected its first deputy in
Argentina; in France it named members of
.cabinets, and in Italy and Australia, it held the
balance of power and turned out ministries.”
JLlie book makes no literary appeal; and even in
America its significance as a social plea is one-
sided.
Mr. Sinclair, economically inclined, reprints in
April N. A. Review the statement about Aus-
tralia. lhat it is only half a truth at best, and
that the Australian Labour Party has deliberately
severed itself from the ideals of . international
Socialism, he probably does not know, and pos-
Slb jy does not care. Yet his article on “ Markets
and Misery ” is more suggestive than his book.
It is unconvincing because the article also is half
a truth ; his whole argument is half a truth.
Civilised governments subsist because on the
whole they are endurable by the majority. The
fact that a minority, lesser or greater, lives in
misery, makes no difference to the majority-
satisfaction which assures the factor of
stability; and the trouble of IJpton Sin-
clair and the Socialists is 'that they
cannot prove to the majority, and are never likely
to prove, that the advent of Socialism would
not mean a misery greater than any now existing
lhe radical fallacy of Socialism is the assumption
that the addition of ciphers will make an integer :
that if all the weak unite, their union will be
strength. . That’s not so ;it will be merely weak-
ness multiplied. Until Socialism can improve
the individual, it will never better the community.
The French Government has taken a momen-
tous step : it has decreed a yearly prize of 1201
for promising young writers. The painters have
had their Pnx de Rome for a long time ; but the
writers—how they have longed for it! and how
sternly Zola refused it to them ! “At least give
a poet space and liberty, the necessary grain of
wheat and the leisure to dream!” said his
opponent, Paul Arbne. “ Give nothing ! ” said
•?' , “ This grain of wheat, let them earn it
with the sweat of their brows. Once permit them
to dream, aud you’ll turn them into idlers
amateurs, abortives.” At least Zola made
his own heroic refusal, and roasted his
own sparrows when there wasn’t any wheat et le
bon Dieu ne les regardait pas. This is a weak
age, and the young writers are frankly pleased
with the French Govt. And they are not to be
tied to a city, they can wander up and down the
earth satanically, spending here a franc and there
a franc : one will never get to the end of that
Pactolus trois milles long. But if they wander to
Australia they must not call upon or
the shameful neglect of and by N.S. W.*
Govt, is too deep a tragedy to endure comic relief
After this it may be breathed gently (in the smallest
type, for fear of an eruption) that a Paris millionaire has
founded a prize of 4000 1. to be given every three years in
acknowledgment of a career of important literary or
artistic work. Called le prix Osiris (after the donor,
C sms Ifia), the first of these triennial bonanzas has just
fallen to Albert Sorel, the historian who wrote Europe
and the French Revolution. What, we demand on behalf
w,17r~H n n n~’o W , did . Jimmy Tyson do? What is
Walter Hall doing ? Where is one Australian millionaire
who can point to one Australian author, one*ditto artist
whose limbs he has anointed, whose feet he has washed’
whose wounds he has salved with golden kisses ? Echo
(grown weary of answering “Where?" and breathing
hard with sympathetic emotion) answers “ Hisses! ”
R , e ? icws P rint s an urgent article
titled “Why Should We Be Buried Alive?” and
disingenuously transfers responsibility by display-
on 0 tb® c r °Y er “Why Should You Be Buried
Alive ? Well, why should n’t you ?
that unfree land which is Russia it appears
that Maxim Gorky heard tall stories of a Land of
.freedom in the East-West; and recently, being a
devotee of freedom, he went thither. With him
went a lady to whom—conformably with principle
—he was united by a free contract merely :
the legally-tied Mrs. Gorky and two little
Gorkies being left at home in Russia. When that
was discovered, Mrs. Grundy, jr., presented a
cold shoulcer to the illegal “ Mrs. Gorky”— and
G. was left to meditate upon what the sporting
writers call a surprising reversal of form. After
meditation, he described Americans as “the same
spitting, vulgar people that Charles Dickens
found —an utterance which the circumstances
invest with equal attributes of humour and pathos.
lerceval Gibbon’s Souls in Bondage recurs at
sixpence ; and so can be bought and read and
treasured. Ihis Gibbon has stolen a march on
the critics, and is great before he is applauded.
Ur it not great, he has the elements of literary
greatness, and needs only the indispensable
favour of destiny. At present he seems to be
spending or wasting—his time in journalism
and fine journalism it is, touched with epic
gravity, universal irony. When he can fill a
large canvas as well as he executes miniatures,
Lnglish fiction will take a new leap into the light.
Edward Noble’s Edge of Circumstance , also at
•, is overvalue for the money—and one fears he
will do as well nevermore. In this connection Our
Advertiser, the G-—e R nP y, now glow-
ing with satisfaction at the “record ” sale of
Amer. novels that has rewarded its vigorous
agency, desires to say that the postage is merely
A.G.S.


RABBIT SKINS
Also KANGAROO , WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to ° —
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS. The Leading Sports
Pistols arid Revolvers.
Derringer Pistol.
Mick
Simmons
Pocke
Pistol.
V
fitted with
£1 5s Od
10s 6d, 12s Cd
13s Cd
10s 6d
Pooket Pistols, No. 1, nickel-plated barrel, fires bullet or shot, cartridges, weight 3£oz. (Postage 3(1)
Derringer Pistol, 22 calibre, nickel-plated, self-ejecting, length slin., weight 4|oz. (Postage 3d.) . • 5s Od
Stevens’Target Pistol, 31in., blued steel barrel, 22 cal., self-ejecting, Goz. (Postage Od.) .. •• 1 - a u
Stevens’ Diamond Model' Pistol, Gin. blued steel barrel, 22 calibre, self-ejecting, weight 90z., r
globe and peep sights, length 9Mn. (Postage Od.) .. .. ••
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammer, 22 R.F., blued or nickel, weight 4loz. (Postage 4d.)
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hanunerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight soz. (Postage 4d.) • •
Vest Pocket Revolvers, Hammerless, 22 R.F., nickel, weight s<z., pearl handle (Postage »d.) ..
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 C.F., 5 chambered, dounle action, nickel, weight 9Joz. (Post 9d. N.S.VV. ;
Is 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .. •• •• ••
Bulldog Revolvers, 320 0.F., 0 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, lOjoz., horn handle (lost.
9d. N.S.W.; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. .. .
Bulldog Revolvers, 380 0.F., 0 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, weight about lib.
9d. N.S.W.; Is. 2d. Inter-State) .. .. .. . -
Bulldog Revolvers, 450 C.F., 5 chambered, double action, nickel or blued, 18oz.
Is. 2d. Inter-State)
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., 7 chambered, double
action, nickel, 2in. barrel, BJoz., 10s 6d : blued, 13s 6d.
(Postage Od)
5s Od
(Postage
7s Cd
(Postage 9d. N.S.W. ;
9s 0d
10s 6d
Young America Revolvers, 22 R.F., same as above, with
barrel, 9Joz., nickel, 12s Od ; blued, 15s 6d.
(Postage, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d Inter-State.)
Young America Revolvers, 32 C.F., safety hammer, 5
chambered, 2in. barrel, Bjoz., nickel, 10s Od. (Postage Od)
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 320 C.F., nickel or blued, auto-
matic ejector, 3jin. barrel, vulcanite stock, ISoz. (Postage 9d. N.S.W.;
Is. 2d. Inter-State.), 13s Od
S. & W. Pattern Revolvers, 380 C.F., same as above, 3|in. barrel, 18oz.
(Post. 9d. N.S.W. ; Is. 2d. Inter-State), 15s Od
Hopkins’ “Forehand” S. & W. Pattern Automatic Revolvers, 32 cal. C.F.,
3in. barrel, weight lib., a limited quantity only. (Post. 9d, or Is 2d Inter-
State), 17s 0d
Young-
America.
Young-
America.
ďf
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3flb
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2|lb.
5
"THE MAINE"
f?ifle
■jjedi/ a/jitf fru/magcp
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.YV., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
df
ƒ
Mick
Simmons.
WINCHESTER 1902 MODEL.
“ Winchester ’’jSingle Shot, 1902 Model, 22 cal. R.F., peep
or V sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2jlb.
(Postage. Is 3d N.S.W. ; 2s 2d Inter-State)
18S
Winchester
1904
Model*
1 Mil
sssssS
.
Srailraafe^
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22‘ short or long rim lire cartridges,
21in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S. W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
24s
tkAth
REMINGTON, No. 6.
Remington, S.S. Rifles, New Model, 22 Calibre R.F., 90in. round blued steei
barrel, weight 3Jlb.— l6s ;or with sliding sights, £1 Is. (Postage, Is 6d
N.S.W. ; 2s 8d Inter-State.)
evens’
-ittle Kra.gr. 1
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Kras,” 22.Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long-, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
sight, with V sight if required, 6d extra ; length over all SSin.,
weight about 3£lb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ; 2s 8d Interstate)..
21s
■tai
f
Stevens’ “ Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block,
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight 4jlb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. ;
3s 2d Inter-State) .. .. , •• ~
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£1 10s
£2
A. 3VE 3VEXJ2STITXO 3XT.
Gun Cartridges.
Cartridges can now be sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1,6 d, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s 6d, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges.
$lOO $lOOO
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical .. .. Is Od 9s 6d
„ 22 Short ~ .. Is Id 10s Od
22 Long
22 Long Rifle ..
22 Extra Long..
. Is 3d 12s Od
. Is 6d 13s Od
. 2s Od 18s Od
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
Postage—2s 6d N.S.W. ;
4s 8d Inter-State.
ƒ
df
Harrington & Richardson's 5.8.8. L Gun,
12-gauge, top action, automatic self-ejecting de-
carbonised steel barrel 30in., solid case hardened
breech, reboundin'? locks, piste 1
grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6£lb.
£1 7s 6d
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.B. B. L,
Gun
4
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock ; 35$
weight about 71b.
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 455. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State.
ƒd
đ
fdf
MICK
SIMMONS
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding looks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S;\V., 2/9 , I ■ > '
40s
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
V-v
A
a
MICK SIMMONS
12 Gauge, lop lever, steel and twist barrels, rebounding bar locks, left choke
As above, but with Greener Cross Bolt, 50s. Postage on Gun, 2s 9d N.S.W.
5s 2d Inter-State.
40s
£3
>pl
.
m
■
HH
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
National Arms Co/s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’s
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Beal Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Gross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore ; end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
df
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6d
-
■
Mick Simmons
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for'
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED EOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the Slates. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ;5s 2d Inter-State
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.


Ex-Postmaster-General
Certifies to the FREEMAN and WALLACE TREATMENT.
THE HOIM. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P.,
who filled with honor the Portfolio of Postmaster-General in the
Parkes Ministry (N.S. W.), and who won distinction, writes :
have Med a course of your ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT, and it has
benefited me much. For years i was troubled with severe pains in the back
and kidneys, the legacy of an attack of Lumbago, which has now, I am
happy to say, completely left me.” (Signed) DAN. O’CONNOR.
THe Testimonies of other eminent Citizens who have been cured by the Freeman (Et Wallace Treatment s
Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY, Australia’s Favorite Tenor,
says : —“I have tried a course of your Electro-Medical
treatment, and it has benefited me to a great degree.
For some years I suffered from Uric Acid in the Blood,
causing Rheumatic tendencies, but, thanks to the
wonderful efficacy of your ELECTRO-MEDICAL
treatment, I am now completely cured.”
The Rev. ANDREW CARTER, of Edinburgh, writes:
“ Before leaving for England I wish to thank you for
giving me back my wonted health. When I inter-
viewed you eight months ago, you learned the sad
story of my troubles—how I had the Dengue Fever in
Madagascar, and what it had left behind it. Let me
now tell you that since my ailment attacked me in
1879, 1 have never been really well, and none of the
doctors in London or Vienna, whom I consulted, did
me good. During the summer 1 always felt bilious,
and subject to terrible constipation ; and, acting on
my physician’s advice, I came to Australia, expecting
the sea trip to do me good. My condition, unfortu-
nately, went from bad to worse. I went to your
rooms to consult you. At the present time, I never
felt better in my life, and your medicines have com-
pletely revived my system. I cannot leave you with-
out expressing my gratitude to you for all you have
done so wonderfully for me ; but believe me when I
say I shall never forget you, and you may look for a
letter from me when I arrive in Scotland again.”
Mr. H. CUMMINS, of Hobart (Tasmania) who
suffered from Nervous Prostration, declaresl
wish to convey to you my heartfelt gratitude for
your skilful assistance rendered to me in my afflic-
tions. I had been for years a great sufferer, and at
times nearly despondent. 1 had been treated by the
most able and skilled doctors that could be found in
this colony. I expended large sums of money with
g everal doctors, and was coolly told that there was
n o hope for a cure. One of your pamphlets fell into
m y hands which treated upon my case. You so fully
de s . cl ’k e( * an d explained all my symptoms that I felt
sat' s^ec * y° u understood my complaint thoroughly,
so I determined to pay you a visit. I was thoroughly
examined by you and pronounced curable. I placed
myself under your care. Within a week of com-
mencing- the remedies you prescribed I felt better.
To-day I can conscientiously say I am permanently
cured. I can cheerfully say to all sufferers that he
or she need have no hesitancy in placing themselves
entirely in your hands, as you will treat them
honestly and faithfully as you did me.”
INSPECTOR P. FOWLER, Chief Officer command-
ing the police division at Burwood, wrote “ Since
adopting your treatment my health has improved.
The trouble I suffered from I seldom ever experience.
As you are aware, I feel so much benefited that I have
recommended the treatment to many of my friends.”
SIGNOR CARLO DANI, the distinguished operatic
tenor of the Royal Italian Opera Company, lately in
Sydney, says “I have much pleasure in informing
you that, owing to the great lassitude I have ex-
perienced here, due no doubt to sudden climatic
changes, I have been induced to try Electro-Medical
Methods, from which I have obtained great benefit to
my muscular and nerve systems.”
MR. FRANK CLARK, the well-known Australian
Comedian, says:—“l am truly glad to be able to
affirm that I am considerably improved in my general
health and spirits. I thoroughly enjoy my travels,
and I am certain that I am permanently improving
rapidly. I hope to be always as well as I feel at the
time of writing.”
Mr. J. BOULDEN, of Camberwell, Victoria, who
suffered from rheumatism for years, after a three-
months’ course of treatment at the Institute, writes
the following testimony :—“ For years I suffered from
rheumatism, which was of synovial and articular
character, and tried to obtain relief in many medical
quarters. I failed, and at last tried the Specialists of
your staff, and am now, through their Electro-Medi-
cal methods, entirely cured. You are at liberty to
publish this testimony, also my portrait, in the
interest of the public.”
Mr. CHARLES KENNINGHAM, principal tenor,
Royal Comic Opera Company, Sydney, write :—“For
years past I have suffered from Insomnia. Your
methods were brought under my notice, and I have
consistently employed them, with the result that I
am now sleeping reasonably, and my general health
and appetite are much improved.”
Mr. EDWARD H. AMES, the famous American
Jockey, says:—“ I endorse the new method of mus-
cular and nerve restoration practised by you in
Electro-Medical treatment. For some months my
nerves were out of tone. I consulted you. I took a
course of your medicines. I soon regained my usual
nerve power, by which I was successful in winning
two great racing events in one day.”
Mr. G. JOHNS, Champion Light-weight Boxer of
Australia, wrote:—“As I have used your treatment
in training for various contests, and have found its
effects most beneficial, both to my nerve and muscu-
lar systems, my opinion is that your Electro-Medical
treatment bus done me undoubted good, both in
training and actual contests.”
Mr. JACK HELLINGS, Champion Amateur Swim-
mer, asserts : —“ Having been completely cured of
the most severe forms of rheumatism in the shoulders,
from which I suffered for years, with severe, con-
tinuous sciatic attacks, your treatment of Electro-
Medication has restored me to health. lam now
physically strong and perfectly healthy. The treat-
ment I received was wonderful in its immediate
1 emedial effects, and has done me more good than I
can ever express.”
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, the well-known Cyclist of
New South Wales, writes :—“ I suffered from ner-
vousness for a long time. I was on the point of a
constitutional break-up more than once. The merits
of your treatment received by me are beyond
question.”
Mr. G. H. BERNARD, of Ganmain Station, via
Wagga, wrote:—“l am getting on steadily and
surely. M3' nerves are in a much better state now.
I am not now subject to those severe frontal head-
aches. My brain is quite capable of tackling any
reasonable amount laid upon it.”
Again he says at a later date : —“ I must say that
for years I have not felt so well as I am now doing.
The half-yearly balance was robbed of all-its trials,
thanks to the admirable trim in which you had my
nerves and brain.”
Mr GEORGE E. KNIGHT, of Simpson-street, Wel-
lington, says :—“Your good work in my case is now
complete, and you have done all that is possible to be
done, and I will ever remain yours gratefully.”
Mr. ALFRED RUMING, of Stonehenge, thus de-
scribes his condition “ I must certainly say that I
cannot now complain of any pains oraches whatever ;
in fact, I consider myself a new being. At one time
life was a misery to me, now it seems Paradise, and I
was never better in my life than now.”
Mr. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., of Randwick, wrote :
—“ I used your remedies for some weeks consistent
with your instructions. lam satisfied your system
gives health and vigor to the system.”
A Leading Medical Practitioner eulogises our sys'
stem of treatment: Dr. THOMAS HORTON, L.R.0.P.1
Edin., L.R.C.S., Edin., and L.M., wrote : “ I am jus-
tified in saying that in all cases in which I had pre-
scribed your Electro-Medical forms of treatment to
my patients, I have found they have given every
satisfaction, and I have had every reason to be pleased
with the result.”
The Institute is constantly receiving from all sources
earnest testimonies from cured patients, who, it will
be seen, are amongst the most respected members of
the social and commercial classes.
The foregoing are only a few important testimonials
taken from many hundreds of others. They tend to
prove the wonderful efficacy of the Freeman and
Wallace methods over all others, which justifies the
assertions of the SPECIALISTS that IT IS THE ONLY
SUPERIOR TREATMENT IN AUSTRALASIA WHICH
A PATIENT MAY OBTAIN.
E LECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL INSTITUTE first placed its advantages before the public of Australasia it has always been spoken favorably of by the combined
Tn T'T 18 th ° Coln r mV f llfc \° f Australia - .These press notices, culled from journals of high authority in the social and political world, circulatmTin Oie
68 ’ are SUolCient ln themselves t 0 brm & conviction to the minds of the most sceptical, who may be inclined to indulge in doubt as to the practical and
READ WHAT SOME OF THEM SAY
TOCSIN (Mebourne) : “ Messrs. Freeman and
Wallace, the eminent Specialists of Sydney, are rapidly
becovning an Australian Institution. Their splendid
premises, including consulting rooms, laboratory,
and pharmacy, at the corner of Bathurst and Eliza-
beth streets, Sydney, are a feature of that city. These
headquarters are the centre of an extensive practice,
linked by correspondence with the remotest corners
of civilisation. It is true that these two famous
Specialjsts, in adopting the only possible means of
maintaining so wide a connection, have not adhered
strictly to the old-fashioned ideas of medical etiquette.
Like Qollingworth, the daringly successful hero of
Conan Doyle’s Medical Memoirs, they recognise the
folly of permitting too nice considerations to stand
between themselves and the welfare of humanity. It
must be admitted that complete success has justified
their efforts. At present these two widely-known
Specialists have the confidence of the largest circle
of patients in Ausiralia.”
OTAGO WITNESS (N.Z.).-“ Every class of ail-
ment is professionally treated with that singular skill
and knowledge which is the result of conscientious
and scientific labor.”
ADELAIDE CRITIC :—“ The Freeman and Wallace
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute holds a posi-
tion of high significance.”
ADELAIDE OBSERVER : —“ Among the most
famed and scientifically replete institutions in the
world is the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
and Surgical Institute. . . . It is presided over by a
staff of skilled Specialists in Nerve and Blood
Diseases. ”
WEEKLY CHRONICLE (N.Z.):—“lt has been
proved that a limited medicated Electric current in-
fused into the riervous system invigorates the entire
system. The Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace
Institute have made a study of such methods, and
have achieved remarkable results.”
SYDNEY BULLETIN :—“ The Institute is un-
questionably the medical feature of Sydney and Mel-
bourne. A Quarter of a century ago it first came be-
fore the Australian public, and though receiving
strong opposition from the medical profession, on
account of its anti-conservative principles, it passed
greatly into favor through the importance of its
parcel-post services and the great cures effected by
its Specialists.” |
CANTERBURY TIMES (N.Z.):—“The Specialists
of the Freeman and Wallace Institute have achieved
remarkable results in their Electro-Medical treat-
ment, and received testimonials from many grateful
patients.”
TRUTH (Sydney), in referring to “Clinical Experi-
ences,” the medical book published by the Freeman
and Wallace Institute, says :—“ There can be little
doubt that as a purely scientific work the treatise
teems with most valuable information. It is certain
that the cure of disease must begin at its generation,
and, as this treatise puts it, grapple the disease in its
inception—to root it out ere it gathers strength or
power of resistance—is the secret of cure. It must
be frankly conceded that in placing within the reach,
of the people a scientific work like this, the proprie-
tors of the Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute
have done a public benefaction, and no doubt their
effort will meet the approval it deserves. It must
not be forgotten that to compile such a compendium
of information a very wide-reaching research and un-
remitting study are required.”
AUSTRALIAN STAR (Sydney):—“No names are
beter known in New South Wales than those of
Messrs. Freeman and Wallace, whose elegant estab-
lishment at the intersection of Bathurst and Eliza-
beth streets is the objective point of hundreds of
suffering pilgrims seeking relief from the dire com-
plaints to which they have fallen victims. Having-;
made a special and long study of all classes of 1
neurotic diseases, unfortunately too common nowa-
days, these Specialists, on combining their skill, have
been enabled to give their patients the most careful
advice and the surest treatment that medical skill
and lengthy experience can bring about.”
GOULBURN HERALD: ‘ ‘ Messrs. Freeman and
Wallace, both eminent Specialists in disease, have
for years carried on a constantly-increasing business.
The institution referred to is replete with every
modern appliance, and neither expense nor labor has-
been considered in the equipment and attention that
has been paid to even the smallest detail.”
KALGOORLIE MINER, W.A. “The Specialists-
connected with this great Medical Institution enjoy a-
very large practice, extending over Australasia.
Their postal facilities are unique. The names of the-
Specialists are household words throughout Aus-
tralasia."
THAMES STAR, N.Z.“ Messrs. Freeman and
Wallace, of Sydney, have made great strides in their
profession.”
LAUNCESTON EXAMINER :—“ Messrs. Freeman
and Wallace have been so eminently successful that
their fame has long- since reached the other colonies.”
KALGOORLIE SUN, W.A. :—“Striking cures of
many so-called ‘ incurable ’ diseases are effected by
the adoption of the Electro-Medical methods as prac-
tised by the Freeman and Wallace Institute. It is a
system that revolutionises the science of medicine,
and appeals alike to rich and poor. Each Specialist
of the Institute has graduated from famous colleges
of Europe.”
PUNCH, Melbourne :—“ The Freeman and Wallace
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute is already well
known throughout the Commonwealth. The cures
effected by the Institution are marvellous. Its speci-
alities are affections of the heart, liver, kidneys, and
internal organs, nerve and brain troubles, rheuma-
tism, gout, and blood and skin diseases. As a proof
of genuineness, consultation either personally or by
letter is free of charge.”
BENDIGO INDEPENDENT, Victoria As Spe-
cialists in skin diseases, as well as nervous and
chronic complaints, Messrs. Freeman and Wallace, of
Sydney, are widely known. It is the aim, object,
and devotion of certain Specialists to be pre-eminent
in some defined class of diseases, rather than to
tinker with a host of complaints about which they
have but a hazy notion and superficial knowledge.”
SPORTSMAN, Melbourne :—“ Messrs. Freeman and
Wallace, of the Electro-Medical and Surgical Insti-
tute, Sydney, have established a high reputation
throughout Australia as Medical Specialists.”
TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL and EVENING
NEWS, Sydney :—“ By reason of wide and varied
experience in the treatment of disease, has deservedly
acquired a great reputation throughout Australasia.”
BRISBANE WORKER, Queensland Messrs. Free-
man and Wallace, the eminent Sydney Specialists,
authors, lecturers, and scientific analysts, have an
extensive Australasian connection, and give personal
attention to all communications addressed to them
at their offices, the Electro-Medical and Surgical
Institute, corner Elizabeth and Bathurst-streets,
Sydney.”
NEWCASTLE HERALD: —Messrs. Freeman and
Wallace have the reputation of being the ablest
Specialists in Sydney. They have innumerable testi-
monials from residents in all parts of the country
certifying to the efficacy of their treatment.”
NEW ZEALAND MAIL, Wellington :—“Messrs.
Freeman and Wallace have devoted their lives to the
cure of nervous and special diseases, and have become
eminent as Specialists in the treatment of such
troubles as are scientifically classed as neurotic.”
Owing to the large increase in the business of the
Institute, it became necessary at the beginning of the
year 1904 to open a branch in Melbourne, when the
Argus, Australasian, Age, Leader, Herald, Punch,
Weekly Times, Truth, Havklet, Table Talk, Sports-
man, Arena-Sun, Tocsin, and The People’s Paper, all
well-known Melbourne journals, reported favorably
of the extension of the Institute’s operations to Vic-
toria. Following is how the Melbourne Punch viewed
the enterprise in its issue of January 24,1904
“The Melbourne branch of the Freeman and
Wallace Institute was formally opened last Wednes-
day afternoon week, when, at the invitation of the
Directors, Messrs. Freeman and Wallace, a represen-
tative company, comprising members of the political,
commercial, artistic, and legal professions, assembled
to successfully inaugurate this highly-commendable
enterprise. If the triumph achieved 'by the firm at
their Sydney headquarters is repeated here upon
only a moderate scale, then the capital, brain power,
and business acumen so lavishly utilised by Freeman
and Wallace will be amply repaid.
“ Coming, as they do, with the highest credentials,
and preceded by a world-wide reputation, they
already have the highest claims upon the confidence
of the public. Dr. Maloney, M.P., and Senator
Findley were present.”
By glancing through the foregoing literary en-
coniums, it will appear patent to all readers that the
Institute in question is one of the very few reliable
medical institutions in the world where patients suf-
fering from any complaint whatever may receive per-
manent and immediate relief. The widely-expressed
recognition of the merits and professional attainment
of the Proprietors and Specialists attached to the In-
stitute is a fact which will alone guarantee their
efficiency to any person, to whom they may prove a
blessing undisguised.
CORRESPONDENCE.—AII letters sent to the Institute are replied to promptly, and
supervised by Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., L.M., our
Physician-in-Chief, who is diplomaed from some of the most important professional seats of
learning in England and Ameriea. He is registered by Medical Boards of Australian States,
England, and Ameriea. He is an expert in the treatment of Men’s Serious Disorders. He is;
one of a Staff of Specialists always at the Institute. His Medical Work, “CLINICAL,
EXPERIENCES, ' a book of 700 Pages, 31 Chapters on General Diseases, 150 Medical Illus-
trations, which should be in the home of every man, will be posted FREE, upon application
to any address. After the applicant has read it, he should lend it to his friends. It is a>
Health Adviser and Standard Medical Work.
MEN.
If afflicted with a disease which, if not cured, means Death, you require the
aid of a medical expert. Consult the Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace
Medical Institute, whose names are household words. They treat and cure
diseases others have aggravated. A day’s delay may be serious. Write or call at once
SERIOUS DISEASES AFFLICTING THE MALE SEX have been made a special
study by the Medical Staff of the Institute, and by their wonderful home treatment system
men can be cured in their homes, distance being no bar to success. It will cost you nothing to
obtain the opinions of the Specialists, who may be consulted FREE ; so write to-day a full
explanation of your case and the symptoms associated with it, and you will receive a reply by
return post. If your complaint be curable, WE CAN CURE YOU. WE NEVER
SUPPLY OUR REMEDIES TO CASES WE CANNOT CURE.
&f>e FREEMAN <&. WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
225 Elizabeth &, Bathurst Sts.,
Sydney,
OPPOSITE
HYDE PARK,
Howard Freeman, Director and Principal of the Institutes.
Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E., Physician-in-Chief.
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
And at MELBOURNE.
IMPORTANT.—Our dispute with the Postal authorities having been amicably settled. Patients may dire<ft
their letters to the above address without fear of delay.


k\ *aw
s/ii.i 2LIL?
ajrv/)
-3-'
“I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
Mger’s
'€herri{ &eetoral
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so-called
“Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
To soothe
the Skin,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun, and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in cases of Priekly-heat (whence its name!
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists and Stores,
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
CUTICURA
Soap, Ointment, and Pills
the World’s Greatest
Skin Cures.
COMPLETE TREATMENT
For Every Humour, from Pimples
to Scrofula, from Infancy
to Age.
The agonizing itching and burning oi
the skin, as in eczema ; the frightful scal-
ing, as in psoriasis ; the loss of hair and
crusting of the scalp, as in scalled head;
the facial disfigurement, as in pimples
and ringworm; the awful suffering of
infants and the anxiety of worn-out
parents, as in milk crust, tetter, and
salt rheum, all demand a remedy of al-
most superhuman virtues to successfully
cope with them. That Cuticura Soap,
Ointment, and Pills are such stands
proven beyond all doubt. No statement
is made regarding them that is not justi-
fied by the strongest evidence. The
purity and sweetness, the power to afford
immediate relief, the certainty of speedy
and permanent cure, the absolute safety
and great economy, have made them the
standard skin cures and humour reme-
dies of the civilized world.
YEARS OF TORTURE
Itching and. Painful Sores Covering
Head and Body Cured
By Cuticura.
“ For fifteen years my scalp and fore-
head was one mass of scabs, and my body
was covered with sores. Words cannot
express how I suffered from the itching
and pain. I had given up hope when a
friend told me to get Cuticura. After
bathing with Cuticura Soap and applying
Cuticura Ointment for three days, my
head was as clear as ever, and to my sur-
prise and joy, one cake of soap and one
box of ointment made a complete cure in
one week, (signed) H. B. Franklin, 717
Washington St., Allegheny, Pa.”
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills are sold throughout the
world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Rue de
la Pair; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Boston, U. S. A., Sole Props.
aS“ Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Every Humour.’’
IRISH
A©
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . , ,
Hacking Cough,
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza &
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
d
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
THE BEST SOAP for BABY
_ WRIGHT’S
COAL TAR SOAP.
IT IS DELIGHTFUL IN USE
IT IS ABSOLUTELY PURE.
IT PROTECTS FROM ALL INFECTION.
6d. per Tablet. Box of 3 Tablets Is. 6d.
C. SRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pri*o Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England,
fdf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for aa
assorted Sample Box.
One thing the last British elections did
was to acclimatise the Australian word “ Chow ”
in England. Before the agitation against yellow
labor on the Rand, “Chow’’was as meaningless
as “ mulga’’ to the majority of the Bull people.
Now the word is universal. It is euphonious, and
fits nicely into a newspaper headline.
“Spring ” : The Jew is a gregarious per-
son. A festive jester looked into a long railway
car t’other day, and noticed one of the tribe flash-
ing brummy diamonds and attracting attention.
The festive one has a deadly hatred for the race, and
he yelled in a wild-rabbit-and-rum voice, *’ Who’ll
have this lovely diamond for eighteen-pence ? ”
Instantly three-fourths of the car rose with a
snort and knocked stars out of the jester and
buried him in a sea of noses. They’d heard the
chestnut before. It was a race-train.
A leaf from a Fatman’s diary :
As I learned there would be some difficulty in securing
another youth at a similar salary, I decided after mature
reflection not to discharge Adolphus. He has had some
experience on a farm and I am of opinion that he would
be quite capable of undertaking sole charge of the garden
in place of the highly paid man who occupies the position.
Accordingly when the latter absolutely and impertinently
refused to work after 7 o’clock one evening I
immediately dismissed him, although when he demanded
his 12s. 6d. in full or a week’s notice I
allowed my kindly nature to get the upper hand, and
permitted him to work the week out. During that time
he certainly did not spare his efforts, for on Friday night
Birdie reported that he had dug over the whole of the
flower-beds, and left the garden with a most attractive
appearance.
I took cccasion, when handing him his salary, to
address him in a few well-chosen remarks as to the evils
of Labor legislation, and also remarked on the work he
had done. He seemed pleased, and hoped it would be
looking even better in a week or two.
Some days later heavy rain fell, and continued without
interruption for an extended period. It was unfortunate
indeed, as Birdie's garden-party was completely upset.
lam convinced that if the Trades Hall be not soon sup-
pressed there is no telling what things may come to.
One evening after returning from a meeting of the
National Association at which it had been decided to
fight vigorously against trades-unionism, Birdie drew my
attention to the fact that a mysterious growth was
appearing in the garden. A few days later the soil was
scarcely discernible through the tangle of green. It
was really most remarkable. In a week the choice
roses and chrysanthemums, which had been secured at
great cost, were completely hidden. The Hon. John
Scallywag who occupies the next premises remarked that
something was evidently wrong. Adolphus no soontr
cleaned half a bed than it was as bad as ever. He was
quite unable to cope with the evil. Passers-by made
irrelevant remarks about the beauty of the scene, which
were most annoying. I accidentally heard the butcher
ask the housemaid which was the wilder, the boss or the
garden, and of course reported him in the proper quarter.
The impudence of these menials when referring to their
betters is really outrageous. Small boys wore out the
door bell inquiring if any harvest hands were wanted, and
then ran away.
I offered 10s. for a first-class gardener, but in spite cf
the tempting bait received no response. Neither did 15r.
nor 20s. bring an answer.
At the end of the week, and just as the growth
threatened to overwhelm the lawn, the secretary
of the union wrote stating that £2 was the
minimum wage, and until I gave that nothing
could be done. The idea of giving £2 to a
working man to look after three acres of garden—a
larger salary than is paid even to my head bookkeeper
and confidential clerk! Preposterous! But Birdie
coaxed me ; so, much against my will, I consented. T 1 e
man who undertook the duties surveyed the tangle with
surprise, and remarked that two-thirds of the Creeping
Jinny, Dorcas, and Prince of Wales Feather in Austral a,
was in my garden. In a week he had-it clear, and lat
once paid him off. Adolphus is again in sole charge.
I have received an acccount from Clover and Co., the
wholesale seed merchants, for two bushels of seed v. ic a
they state was ordered by my gardeiu r. The pdlki ;;i
has informed the cook that he saw the man scatter., g
seed in handfuls every morning at daybreak.
The matter is now in the hands of the police.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
df
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
tSboes tbat are
brightest,
Boots that look best,
are those which have been made
to shine brilliantly with
Hauthaway’s
Crozine
Blacking
which not only puts shine but soft-
ness into them. Thus, in addition to making
the surface of the leather look more beautiful
than it could be otherwise made to look, it in-
creases its wearing qualities, renders it pliant
to the foot, and altogether more pleasant and
comfortable to walk with. Boots never look
so ornamental, and are never so useful, as
when treated with this acidless blacking.
Can be had at all Boot Stores.
See that you get Hauthaway’s.
None else is half as good.
PRESERVES A 3 WELL A 3 EEA'JI 1 711-3.
C. L. Hauthaway & Sons, 346, Congiess Stieet,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Jacobite in Love.
But few of us who live the life
In single woe or beatitude,
Or take the customary wife,
And raise the regulation brood,
Are really loved at any time
With that fine frenzy which the bards
Have raved about in torrid rhyme.
This fact the wiser man regards
With calm content, if but a few
Who love him not pretend they do.
No lurid loves have been our own,
Which, like snap-dragon, offer sweets,
And burn the fingers to the bone
That dip to take the dainty meats.
A dimpled form, a merry eye,
A kindly heart—this much for us,
And though she fail to melt and sigh
We shall not make a graceless fuss,
If but she spice a little sense
Of liking with a warm pretence.
We boast unto no great extent
Adoring us made many grieve,
But some have paid the compliment
Of very pretty make-believe ;
And looking back on one or two,
On Ruth demure and radiant Rose,
In gratitude we weave a few
Well meaning rhymes, and here propose
For happy victims —all the host —
“The Young Pretenders,” boys, a toast.
VIC.
EDYSON.
Doomed.
I mounted the white stone steps that led to the
surgeon’s rooms;
Behind me the city park was rich in October
blooms;
There gaudily flamed poinsettias, scarlet against
the blue,
And delicate jacarandas, mistily purple, grew.
I mounted the steps of the surgeon’s house, with
a long backward look,
Dreaming of rest ’neath spreading trees, a friend
in a well-loved book.
Up from the town in the clear warm air the
slender smoke wreaths curled,
I said “ I am in love with life, and this is a lovely
world ! ”
I came down the wide stone steps that led from
the surgeon’s rooms,
The evening shadows were soft on the gay Oetobc r
blooms.
Under the great bauhinia, with eyes expectant,
bright,
A girl was waiting her lover, gowned all in brid 1
white.
And, near the pond by the western gate, where
the bunya pine tree grows,
The privet hedges were overhung by the trail of a
climbing rose....
The lusty life in vine and leaf and the joy cf
every thing,
Were bitter mockery to the man who will not be
here next spring !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
To Dora.
Beloved jade, fair mistress, dainty shrew,
Mass of pretence and sweetnesses commingling,
What is it that still binds my hopessto you,
So that your name sets all my fibres tingling?
That you are very beautiful, I own :
As fair as false ; your every dimple wrenches
My life awry ; your eyes would melt a stone ;
And, for your lips !. . . Still, I’ve seen lovelier
wenches.
Your voice is like a stream of gold that runs
Past purple towers in some Arcadian city—
A Sweet voice in a world of prigs and duns;
And on occasion you are passing witty.
Your mouth is like a rose that lusts inflamed
With deep desire of its own lovelinesses.
Before your eyes the pallid stars, ashamed,
Slink to impenetrable space recesses.
Your mood, as variable as the moon,
The constant tyrant of my mind and nerve is; —
(I’ll need a strong vocabulary soon,
Like Swinburne’s, Miss Corelli’s, or Grant Her-
vey’s).
Your snowy breast enshrines a heart of ice,
A heart with neither warmth nor comfort in it,
A heart not to be won by sacrifice;
Nor can true love or leal devotion win it.
You are, dear love, the veriest fraud alive,
A make-believe, all gimcrack work and gilding ;
And yet, God knows, I worship you, and I’ve
No hope save in this horse of cards I’m building.
Beloved jade, to your own self be true !
Lie to me. Swear you love me. Sweet pre-
cisian,
Pretend the royal pain you never knew,
The quicklier to consign me to perdition.
Immaculate at least pretend to be,
Womanly, true, of your own sweetness worthy.
So for a day be gracious even to me,
To whom life seems so sordid, cramped and
earthy.
You cannot love, who love yourself so well;
But you can act, who know yourself so comely.
Ape passion as you fling me into hell;
Smile as you stab... My corpse shall thank you
dumbly.
And at the end, when you in Heaven shall stray,
And I (’mid other scenes) shall meet you never,
Against the walls within whose bond you stay
My soul shall beat itself to death for ever.
MAOBIIAND.
FRANK MORTON.


c
Sold bv
All Jewellers
WHO CAN SHOW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
FIRST THROUGHOUT THE EMPIRE.
® MEDALS WHEN-EVER EXHIBITED.
7\ Certificate Given W/th Each Watch.
OW/>
(B*'
1892
f /I
ROTHEIHAHS
BS
si
Estab-
-1750.
Tho Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE L OR N.S.W.—
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE
POLICY.
a^ Cd 3 °' pai :f ble at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
oi loial jiLJNJiiJ lio . (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of aooidpnf • /9\ i?innn p n „.„ m i. i
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement ; (4) £6 per week for’ Temto^rv ToSS
(5) £1 10s per week for Temporary Partial Disablement;
JWg.?? l seases : For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. Y. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
[BESI SHEFFttJ®
GROUND
0
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE,
J'Wer h.
ƒ
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES. (EACH RAZOR IN A CASE),
iisVWlow Under *the nw.DE man phote'cthh
B
df
rrnrnm"
Cl mini
Refuse
Imitations
Wholesale:
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above,
OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
ARE YOU TIED DOWN ?
df
To the overcrowded and consequently poorly-paid trades, where advancement is
slow r , wages small, and-where the supply is always greater than the demand? If
so, let us qualify you to enter the finest, most up-to-date and the best-paying
profession of to-day, namely, Electrical Engineering. We train by mail, direct
to your home, in your spare time. Distance from London is no liar to success.
No high education is required, only ability to read and write. No one is too old
or too young. We have students to-day from 10 to 60 years of age in all walks of
life, all over the world, whom we are lifting to the pinnacle of success.
OUR SYSTEM HAS PROVED SUCCESSFUL.
We don’t ask you to acceptour -word as to what we can do, but to investigate mat ters
yourself. It will cost you nothing to prove the matter and satisfy yourself.
Do it now. To-morrow never comes. Wo are waiting to hear from you,
when we will send you our interesting Free Book,
“How to become an Electrical or Mechanical Engineer.”
It tells you the story of success; how we have lifted thousands of people
to first-class positions as Electrical Engineers with first-class pay. We have
courses of instruction beginning with the simplest arithmetic, others of a
more advanced nature, but all with the one aim—Perfection. We supply
our students with a complete Reference Library, Free. We have
amongst others, the following courses
Complete Electrical Engineering; Electric Light and Power; Short Electrical
Course; Dynamo Tender’s Course ; Electric Motorman’s Course; Dynamo
Design; Mechanical Engineering; Steam Engineering; Telephony;
Telegraphy; Mechanical Drawing; Mathematics, etc., etc.
We are w aiting to send you our Free Book, “ How to become an Elec-
trical or Mechanical Engineer.” Send for Free Copy to-day to— -»
The Electrical of
Correspondence Instruction,
5 Norwich House, Southampton St,
Holborn, London, England. ’
=*s7^
3^TT
'! • '
Gam Electric Mine Locomotive,
)
QANZ Electric
Mine Haulage
Equipments..
Have been specially designed to
meet Australian mining conditions,
and have been brought up by
many years’ experience to the
highest degree of perfection.
Sole Australian Agents—
AUSTRAL OTIS ENGINEERING CO.
Telephone
No. 331.
Cr« Hanna and Kavanagh Streets, SOUTH MELBOURNE*
[3
THE
OLDiSMOBIUk
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
PTrwA out ; of ' dof ! rs enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
-n.ui\AisUUi than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
reliable car laVe 16011 ovei ’ come to tlie smallest detail in this strong, handsome.
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
aeros.s the Anun'ican Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England
and the 30-day Continental trip, have proven. ° ’
highest^fficiencT^ 0^116 showing the ° ldsm obile line ; the lowest prices for the
7 H.P. Standard
Runabout.
7 H.P.
Touring: Runabout.
20 H.P.
2-Cyl. Touring Car.
10 H.P.
Light Tonneau.
16 H.P.
Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich.
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd., 253 Elizabeth St„ Sydney.
BUsL
■ IB
mm
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
I
V
smssm
~.. .3^
S ;I
* ■ *
: i, k
n
yjt. -
/»
i
mm
v >7
.
p
, ■
m
i
i i
* r- .
i
; : ;:: ,
r. ,#
*
1 '-
, ■. ■ .. .v
j * i
S&mßSmr ~
&
NEW CHUM s “Run for
your life! The cattle
are stampeding'.’*
OUD HAND: “ Don’t get
excited, sonny. Can’t
you see tliere’s an
ANCHOR FENCE
between us ? That’s
tbe fence E. RICH
AND CO., Ctd., are
agents for.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.-No. 1372.
THURSDAY, MAY 31, 1006.
Prigs Sd.
THE POMP OF WAR.
At the military manoeuvres on Empire Day, it being rather showery, there was hardly a quorum, so the Generals had some difficulty in
forming hollow square. It was very hollow, indeed. Still, the Jap Admiral, who was present, declared that he was deeply impressed.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia /or the Australians.”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £i q q
Half-yearly ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bum,ktin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bum,win posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
S/iecial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Aoents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. x Vein.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 31, 1906.
WHAT IS A “PLACE”?
Under a peculiarly-built N.S.W. law a man can
be fined or imprisoned, not so much for making
bets, as for using a “place” for the purpose of
betting. The matter looks simple enough at first
sight, yet out of it astonishing complications have
arisen. So far as the community knows, every
spot on, or in, or above the earth is a place, and if a
man makes a bet he must use a place to make it
in ; therefore, every time he makes a bet, the law
can come down on him. That is how it appears
to the plain, ordinary lay intelligence; but, despite
the simplicity of the matter, the Law has broken
every front tooth in its head trying to decide what
is a place, and how long a betting man has to
stand in a place to make it a place, and why a
place is a place, and how it comes to be one, and
what makes it stop being one. Almost every
court in the State has wrestled with the question
and been thrown on the mat. The problem is
reported to have killed one magistrate and driven
another to drink. It has caused Costs to rise up
like a brontosaurus in the night, and to rage up
and down the land. The crops have hardly time
to grow by reason of this fool problem—which,
after being tackled a hundred or a thousand times,
has just broken out again, looking as good as new
and as fresh as ever. It is the most lamentable
legal technicality of the age, yet amid all this con-
fusion the N.S.W. Government has never taken
the trouble to pass a simple Bill defining a place,
•whereby all the controversy might be ended. All
that is wanted is a plain legal definition some-
thing like this (preamble of the Bill omitted): —
* * * *
(1) A place is just a place, a situation, a posi-
tion, in fact any old spot.
(2) A place is anywhere and everywhere in the
universe. When a man is standing, sitting, lying,
rolling, walking or circum-navigating on a place, it
is a place. It is also a place if a man isn’t stand-
ing, sitting, lying or rolling on or around it. It
is just as good a place if a cow is standing on it,
or an elephant. The South Pole will be a place
when it is found. It will also be a place if it isn’t
found. It is a place now—so is every other place.
If there is no South Pole, it is a place just the
same.
(3) An imaginary spot is a place just as much as
if it wasn’t imaginary. If anyone is accused of
making bets in Atlantis, Utopia or Barataria, the
court will go right on and hear the evidence,
whether those places exist or not, and will there-
by accumulate Costs. The law believes in Costs.
The locality in which Bishop Pontoppidan’s
legendary animals existed was a place.
(4) If a man is up in a balloon the balloon is a
place, and is in a place. This clause applies
equally to a man who has fallen off a ship and not
been recovered. Even if he fell off Maek
Antony’s gallery at Actium and hasn’t been
heard of since, he is in a place, and can be prose-
cuted for making bets there, provided satisfactory
evidence is tendered with the aid of a duly paid
solicitor.
(5) Valhalla is a place. So are Nifleheim and
Gehenna. For the purposes of this Act anybody
who is dead for 20 years shall be regarded as a
place. He is dust, and dust helps to make the
earth, and the earth is a place.
* * • •
(6) It is not necessary for a spot or locality to
have any known name or address or latitude or
longitude, or to be approachable by any known or
definite road or other means, or to be located on
any map, or to be defined in any way. It is a
place all the same.
(7) A cockroach under ordinary conditions is a
cockroach. When it is stood upon it becomes a
place. A horse is a place when a man or any
other animal is riding it. So is any other animal.
If a man makes a bet while impaled on the horn
of a cow the cow is a place. When Captain
William Jackson Barry rode on the whale it
was a place. So was the turtle when Louis de
Rougemont was on it, or wasn’t on it. It doesn’t
matter how many animals are piled on top of one
another, each of them constitues a place for the
purposes of this Act. So does any vehicle, build-
ing, structure, object, or any solid, liquid, fluid,
gas, phantasm, chimera, rumor, delusion, or
sundry. This clause includes quicksands, land-
slides, avalanches, earthquakes and volcanic erup-
tions.
(8) A place may be of any size or shape. It
may be tipped up at any known or unknown
angle. It may be raw or fried or otherwise pre
pared. It may be living or dead, or partly one o
partly another. Also, it may be wet, dry, or a
little of both, with a leaning either way. (Dust
storms come under this clause.)
(9) If one man gets on top of another for the
purpose of making a bet, the man underneath
shall be deemed a pla,ce, and shall be fined not
less than £lO for being one. The man on the top
shall be fined double for trying to bring the law
into contempt.
(10) Any solicitor or barrister who claims that
his client wasn’t in a place when the bet was
made shall be suspended for 12 months. Also, if
the judge or magistrate entertains the claim thus
advanced, he shall lose three months salary. If
the person on the Bench is only a J.P. and gets
no salary, he shall cease to be a J.P., and shall be
exiled to some locality at least 100 miles distant,
where he shall be compelled to go on the land.
(11) The term “man” in this Act shall include
any woman or child who bets, also any automaton,
machine, performing dog, calculating pig, or any
other object that gambles, or looks as if it might
gamble.
(12) If by the process of scientific discovery,
and the invention of flying men or airships, or the
extension of wireless telegraphy, or by thought
transference or other phenomena, any method is
devised whereby a bet may be made, despite the
definitions contained in this Act, without both the
parties being in a place, they shall both be held to
be in a place just the same.
* • » *
The passing of some simple law like that would
do more to suppress the betting evil which, as the
clergy say, is “rampant in our midst,” than all
the weary processes of judicial definition with
which the Courts have been struggling for years
past.
THE COMMERCE ACT.
The cry of the importer is now heard in the land
complaining that if this thing be, all is at an end,
and he will drown himself in the waters of bitter-
ness and Australia will perish. With the same
poignancy, the exporting agent lifts his voice and
cries “ Woe!” on a country that can think of such
a thing. The new Commerce Act is the trouble.
That Act gave to the Commonwealth Government
power to supervise both imports and exports, so
as to ensure a reasonable degree of honesty in
trade. Minister Lyne and his Department hn ve
drafted a set of regulations which show that
they intend to use the power thus con-
ferred. As honesty is the last thing
that some importers (and exporters’ agents)
want, their wailing at these “monstrous pro-
posals ” has the sharp edge which desperation
gives. No more shoddy to be imported as wool or
cotton as silk ; no more brandy made of potatoes
in London, or “best port ” compounded of cheap
and nasty claret and nastier chemicals ; or paper
masquerading as leather; or “brum” jewellery
pretending to be real; or swindling preparations
represented as good fertilisers for robbing the
backbone of the country ! What can a dishonest
importer do for a living under such a handicap ?
No more possibilities of such frauds as the butter-
agents carried out recently ? What hope will
that other friend of the county’s backbone, the
exporting agent, have of making a predatory
fortune? Honesty to be the policy of the
Commonwealth —honesty in what it imports and
exports ? Then, they shriek, must trade die and
the Chamber of Commerce fall into ruin.
* * * *
The Commerce Act, as passed, gave the widest
powers to the Government. The regulations
which Minister Lyne suggests provide, as regards
imports :
Certain deleterious food substances shall not be im-
ported at all. All articles of food imported shall proclaim
by clear brand their country of origin and their exact
nature. Spirits must show their age. Brandy must de-
dal e whether its origin is truly vinous. Wine must state
its age and its country of origin. Patent medicines must
show whether they are of a dangerous nature and also in-
dicate if they are merely vehicles for the consumption of
alcohol under a medical name.
Textiles must not be imported under any false trade
descriptions. Leather must be pure leather, and “woollen
goods ” must contain at least 90 per cent, of pure wool.
Jewellery alleged to be gold must be marked truly and
correctly, and the nine carat article must no longer swear
on its false countenance that it is fifteen carat.
Plants must be accurately described, and guaranteed
free from disease ; ditto seed, which must also confess its
age. Manures must be branded with a description of
their chemical ingredients.
So much for imports. As regards exports, the
regulations show that if Australia demands of the
foreigner an honest article, it is ready to send
back an honest article in return. The regulations
dealing with this matter may be summarised
Butter must be pure butter, and contain no undue
amount of salt, of water, or of preservative. It will be
graded according to quality before export. Cheese must
be pure cheese. Preserved milk must not be of the
skimmed-milk variety, or contain any impurity. Ham
or bacon must be of healthy pig. Fruit must be clean
and free from disease. Honest weight must be given
Onions must not be over the age limit or show second
childhood by sprouting. The Australian spud must be a
worths' and respectable spud when it goes abroad, and
even the rabbit and the hare must be good sorts and
capable of upholding the reputation of a clean and whole-
some Commonwealth.
• * • *
There does not seem, to the reasonable citizen,
any possible cause for complaint in all this. But
the dishonest butter-agent and his class see vanish-
ment of the illegitimate profits they made out of
exporting third-class rubbish at first-class prices
under faked brands. The dishonest importer sees
no hope of competing with Australian-produced
goods if he has to declare that his shoddy is
shoddy and the “leather” of his cheap boots is a
paper preparation, and the foods and drinks he
vends so cheaply are mere attractively-labelled
rubbish. With a vigorous administration
of such regulations half the importers and
more than half the exporting agents would
find their occupations gone. They live on
dishonesty and could not survive under honest
conditions. Naturally the Foreign-trader would
grieve at that; he has a definite sympathy with
dishonest folk, and would mourn the loss of their
chances of legal robbery. But what hurts the
Cobdenites even more is that a competition with
Australian industry which cannot at present be
fought because its weapons are fraud and pre-
tence, will disappear. To the bigoted Foreign-
trader, foreign goods—even though they may be
tweed made of filthy rags, wine of logwood, and
jam of vegetable refuse—are blessed, and Aus-
tralian goods, even though honest, are accursed.
* • * *
The violence of the clamor raised by the publi-
cation of the draft regulations ; the fact that the
majority of the foreign-trade press (the Sydney
Morning Herald is an honorable exception) join
in the fierce curses against this “interference
with business interests,” this violent Socialistic
proposal for honest weight and honest quality ;
show how mighty will be the influence directed
against the Minister and the Government and the
Parliament to compel them to modify their disas-
trous zeal for fair dealing. The Bulletin sin-
cerely hopes that the Deakin Government and
the Australian Parliament will be firm. Let
them set against the clamor of persons—who have
no more valid claim to be heard than has the
cursing prisoner in the dock, protesting against a
just sentence —the enormous advantages which
would accrue to the Commonwealth from
the enforcement of a general system of trade
honestv. Australia would come to be known
throughout the world as the country to
which only genuine goods must be sent;
the land which had set itself so high a standard
of life that it wanted no shoddy, no adulterated
foods or faked drinks. From this would spring
not only a carefulness in regard to the merchan-
dise sent to Australia, but a general move hither-
ward of a good class of population. The boarding-
house of which it becomes known that it will only
buy the best eggs, and butter, and bacon, and the
choicest meat is soon rushed with patrons; and
Australia proclaimed “a land to which you can
only send honest goods ” would arouse a general
curiosity among honest people who thought of
changing their homes. A million of money spent
on immigration pamphlets and lectures would be
of less avail than the general dissemination through
the manufacturing centres of the world of the fact
that Australia is a land where the wisdom of the
Government and the prosperity of the people
make possible a law practically prohibiting the
importation of dishonest food or clothing.
<■ * * *
As regards the supervision of exports, the ad-
vertising effect would be even more valuable. The
world would be taught that the words “good”
and “Australian ” on any article were synonym-
ous. Australian butter, cheese, bacon, potatoes,
onions, grains, fruit and game would be known
to be of good quality, guaranteed by a Govern-
ment interested in seeing that a high standard
was observed. That would give to every
Australian exporter, practically without cost,
a trade advantage and a trade reputation which
he could not otherwise get by spending many
thousands of pounds in advertising. The world
would know that only honest, high-quality goods
came out of Australia, and those anxious for good
articles would ask for Australian as a matter of
course. Of course such a splendid result is not to
be brought about by a mere stroke of the pen.
Regulations have not only to be framed but en-
forced with wisdom and firmness. Then a break
of Government, putting, say, Reid into power,
might lead to unsympathetic administration
which would ruin the good result of past effoit.
But the statesman must not consider that. It is his
part to act as if his lease of power were perpetual
and that, anyhow, if it were interrupted there would
be no break in the continuity of his policy.
Probably it would take five years for the full
benefits of such regulations as those proposed
under the Commerce Act to become apparent.
Those five years would be marked by small losses
(mostly the losses of the careless and incompe-
tent producer and the would-be dishonest trader)
owing to the practical prohibition of inferior
exports, and by large and quickly increasing
gains from the enhanced reputation of Australian
products. As is the case always, the losses would
be magnified by interested persons into disasters,
and of the gains little would be heard. Much
steady courage will therefore be necessary to
make the Commerce Act really effective. The
present Government may have the privilege of
staying in power long enough to display that
steady courage and to see the reward of it.
Whether that is so or not, it can at least start the
good work, and set a good example of firmness in
face of the present clamor.
LABOR PERFIDY.
The Bulletin has received the following from
Mr. P. Heagney, sec. of the Central Executive
of the Political Labor Council of Victoria :
The Central Executive of the P.L.C. feels it a duty to
say a few words in reply to the article entitled “ Labor
Perfidy,” which appeared in The Bulletin on the 3rd
in st.
You discuss therein the action of the late P.L.C.
Conference in deciding by a large majority not to
endorse any part of the agreement made in May, 1904,
between the Federal Labor party and the Liberal Protec-
tionists. You stigmatize the decision, denounce it as
“infamous,” speak of the “cheerful arid airy insolence ”
of the delegates, whom you call “ faithbreakers,” and
picture the conference as a fiendish revel-rout, in which
the songs were interspersed with “deeds of perfidy.”
Mr. Watson is “ pilloried as a disgraced and censured
leader” [not by The Bulletin, but by the Victorian
P.L.C.—Ed B.], “perfidious arms are to be turned on
friends and allies,” etc. You say that in return for
support given to the Labor Government in its hour of
need by the Liberal Protectionists, “it was arranged
between them and J. C. Watson, acting for his party,
that they should have immunity from opposition at
the next elections. The arrangement was in every way
equitable, and was of such a nature as any party leader
was entitled to come to on his own authority. But
Watson took the precaution of consulting the executive
of the Labor League and securing its approval before-
hand. He further reported the agreement to the last
Inter-State Labor Conference, and it endorsed that
alliance, while deprecating future agreements of the sort.
Now the Victorian Labor League Conference decides to
repudiate the Labor leader’s action,” and “ to repudiate
all the endorsements that were given.” “ They (the
delegates) ‘approve of his able leadership,’ but they left
him in a position in which it is difficult to see how he can
remain leader of the party and retain his personal honor.
The loss of J. C. Watson is the logical outcome of the
decision of the Victorian Labor League Conference.”
* * * *
Your charge of treachery is launched against the dele-
gates and the branches they represented, for nearly every
one of the delegates was instructed how to vote on this
question of alliances. We answer that neither the
branches nor the delegates have been guilty of promise-
breaking. The P.L.C. has a written constitution which
reserves to the branches the right of selecting candidates.
That cardinal rule has been in force since the foundation
of the council. The branches neither promised “ immunity
from Labor opposition ” to anyone, nor ever authorised
anyone else to make such a promise on their behalf.
Nor did they ever by silence tacitly endorse such a pro-
mise. On the contrary, this right has been jealously
guarded. If the writer of “Labor Perfidy’’had been at
the fortnightly meeting of the old Political Labor Council,
consisting of about 40 delegates, on the 14th May, 1904,
and witnessed the vehement demonstration evoked by a
rumor that the executive had that day given some sort of
promise to certain Liberal Protectionists, he would never
have drawn his fine word picture of perfidy. On the
other hand, he could have drawn a lurid picture of
bluff honesty, without drawing on his imagination.
The branches, then, having expressly reserved all along
the power to grant immunity to candidates, and never
having promised immunity, nor authorised anyone else to
promise it, have broken no promise, and are therefore
not faith-breakers, etc. Their decisions are not “in-
famous,” nor their acts “ perfidious,” but perfectly in
harmony with all their obligations. Nor was there
treachery anywhere. Especially groundless is your
charge that Mr. Watson, personally, has been betrayed.
He did not make himself personally responsible for the
agreement made. It is well-known that the published
“ articles of alliance between the Liberal Protectionists
and Labor parties” were made with the cognisance of
the Federal Labor party as a whole. Mr. Watson is no
more responsible than any other member of his party who
did not oppose the alliance. The terms of the alliance
were not drawn up by Mr. Watson, but by other
members of his party, and the promise given by
the P.L.C. executive without authority, but in antici-
pation of its endorsement by the full Council,
was not given to Mr. Watson personally, but to four
other members of his Government. The exact terms of
this promise are probably not known to the writer of
“ Labor Perfidy.” They were substantially the same as
the terms of clause 3 of the printed conditions of alliance,
which run, " Each (party) to use its influence, individually
and collectively, with its organisations and supporters,
and secure support for, and immunity from opposition to,
members of either party during the currency of the
alliance.”
* < • *
This promise has been kept faithfully by the men who
made it. Even at the recent Conference several of them
spoke and voted in favor of giving to the Central Execu-
tive the power to say what seats shall be contested by
Labor candidates, so that arrangements might be made
with some of the Liberal Protectionists, llut the pro-
posal was quite out of harmony with the prevailing
feeling of the branches. To persist further would be
simply disloyal. The executive which gave the promise
undoubtedly misjudged the feeling of the members of the
branches, and honestly expected that their action would
be endorsed. Moreover, the Liberal Protectionists well
knew that neither the Federal Labor Party nor the Central
Council of the organisation could absolutely bind the
branch members. All they could do was to promise “to
use their influence with their organisations,” and that has
been done. Therefore every promise has been kept, and
no one has been deceived.
Your suggestion that Mr. Watson should resign is
absurd, as also is your wild statement that he has been
“ pilloried as a disgraced and censured leader.” A Labor
leader, you apparently forget, occupies a much more
exalted position than the leaders of the conventional
parties. He is the spokesman of a vast multitude, giving
expression to opinions formed after long deliberation by
free men and women. The others are dictators, who
frame their own policies. Even now, the followers of Mr.
Reid and Mr. Deakin do not know' what their respective
policies w'ill be at the next election. Mr. Watson, like
every other loyal member of the party, after having
urged the acceptance of his own view's, will accept the
decision of the majority on the points that are carried
against him. The alliance has neither been condemned
nor condoned. It has simply not been endorsed. Mr.
Watson has led the party competently, and retains its
confidence. Why, then, should he abdicate?
• * * *
There seems room for but little comment on
this. The mental attitude w'liich is responsible
for the argument that there is no slight or insult
to Watson in repudiating the agreement that
Watson made, because it was not made by him
alone, but by him in conjunction with others, is not
a thing to argue with, but simply to deplore. The
Bulletin would like to hear what Watson himself
has to say on the contention that it is quite right to
force him to break his word, because others who gave
the same promise will be also forced into the same
position ! But, admitting that the Labor League
branches have reserved the right as to selection of
candidates ; and admitting that in coming to an
agreement which trenched on their right, Watson
and the Labor party went beyond their powers ;
and in confirming that agreement the P.L.C.
Executive went beyond its powers; and in
approving it the Inter-State Conference of the
P.L.C. went beyond its powers (though, since
that is the Federal Parliament of the movement
it is difficult to see how its supreme authority can
be challenged) was not the decent and honest
course to regret the action but to stand by it?
The other party to the bargain had paid up its
money. The Labor party enjoyed the money and
now refuses delivery of the goods. It’s a dis-
honest and dishonorable way of doing business
whatever technical point can be urged in excuse.
As to the inherent stupidity of a party organisa-
tion which refuses its Parliamentary representa-
tives and executive officials authority to act in a
crisis, it is not necessary to touch upon that matter
now.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Craving for Imported Officials—Again.
A few weeks ago The Bulletin commented on
two of the current howls for imported officials —
the howl for an imported military commander
and the howl for an imported N.S.W. Chief Rail-
way Commissioner. It has just come on a third
howl —the tentative yelp of Prime Minister
Deakin for an imported Federal Meteorologist.
On May 17 the Age reported its affable friend
thus: —
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS PROMISED.
AMERICAN EXPERT TO BE ENGAGED.
“ I regard the present Australian meteorological service
as most unsatisfactory,” said the Prime Minister yester-
day, when indicating the intentions of his Government
with respect to the proposed National Weather Bureau.
“ Under our control we intend to make the information
collected for the benefit of the public far more complete.
When the States’ departments are taken over, the service
will be reorganised, and probably placed under the ad-
ministration of the Postmaster-General.”
We understand that it is not the intention of the Com-
monwealth Ministry to appoint any of the existing
meteorologists in command of the National Bureau. The
Postmaster-General will make an entirely new departure.
He will, of course, have special representatives in each
State, and will take over many subordinate officers who
are now doing excellent minor work for the States. But
the National Meteorologist will be the most up-to-date
young American expert whom Australia can secure for a
reasonable salary.
Also, a day or two later, it was further
reported:—
It is more than likely that the first Government
meteorologist for Australia, when meteorological adminis-


tration has definitely passed from the States to the
Commonwealth, will be soujrht for in India as well as
America. In India meteorology has been placed upon a
scientific basis, and is made the servant of the poorest
classes of agriculturists.
Now there is nothing known about meteorology
generally in India or the U.S. that isn’t known in
N.S.W. or Westralia, and about the meteorology
of the southern hemisphere there are many things
known in Australia that the bright, fresh “ex-
pert ” from India or the U.S. will have to learn
from the beginning. The only reason why the
meteorological services in Australia are inefficient
and fragmentary is—want of money. The U.S.
pours out dollars by millions on its meteorological
department. The department is able to pay
for telegrams from all over the earth
to let it know' which way storms are travelling,
where they are developing, and when they may
be expected. It is a department that covers the
whole country, and has tentacles all over the
earth. It has the best appliances that money can
buy, and can dot all the U.S. with well-
equipped observing stations. The same descrip-
tion applies to India. But in Australia the cost
of a few ninepenny telegrams is grudged as if they
were gold ; cablegrams can hardly be obtained
unless the staff pays for them itself by passing
round the worn and faded hat; and travelling ex-
penses are cut down to zero, so that the appara-
tus at remote observing stations may have gone
Wrong for years before an officer can get round to
discover the fact. Each officer has control of one
State only, and has to rely for information beyond
his State limits on men who are wholly outside
his Control, while as regards news from outside
Australia, almost everything is guess-work. As
regards salaries, England pays its meteorological
expert £lOOO a year (and he produces in return
a moderately reliable daily forecast, just as
Australia does) ; the U.S. pays about
double that ; N.S.W. pays £3OO ; Queens-
land. £160; Tasmania, £l2O. And when the
U.S. Weather Department, by means of its
cable advices from Asia, Europe, and South
America, is able for once to foretell a storm as
much as a week in advance—though it generally
prophesies no further ahead than an Australian
Department does —this country is filled with
admiration at its efficiency, yet the N.S.W.
Weather Office has often done the same thing, and
done it just as well, without a tenth of the
chances, and has gained no credit worth mention-
ing. Being a mere Australian institution, its work
and that of the other States is spoken of with
cold superiority as “ excellent minor work,”
done in a poor, minor sort of country
that is of little account. With all its
drawbacks the N.S.W. Weather Department
at all events, has preserved, through all the lean
years, a high standard of efficiency, and has
contributed a very fair share to the world’s
stock of meteorological literature. And when the
lean years are past, and there might at last be a
chance, through more liberal expenditure, to
establish a valuable department, in which some
Australian scientist, who hitherto could hardly
even get his works published except at his own
expense, might make a name, the profit and the
opportunity are to go to some perky young man
who has been doing minor work in “ Goo’s coun-
try,” and who, under new conditions, will have to
almost begin his education afresh. But there is
no idea of expecting this raw importation
to show what he can do under the old
disheartening conditions. He will not be asked
to produce even half as good work as the present
men have done, on the same meagre pay, with
hardly any money for expenses, and with the
department tacked on as a paltry side show to
the post office as in S. A., or to the kid-spanking
business as in N.S.W. The imported man is to have
a fine large re-organised department, and big
opportunities, but the idea of giving the same
opportunities to a mere Australian —Australian
either by birth or adoption—is not to be thought of.
And if the imported man makes a success-—with the
free use of the Federal telegraph service, with money
to pay for cablegrams, with a well-fitted office, up-
to-date instruments, and with the means to travel
about and see that his country observing stations
are in order —his work will be contrasted in a
large off-hand way with the results produced by
Australians who were perhaps better scientists,
but who hadn’t a semblance of his chances. If
the importing disease grows much worse, it will
be “ up to ” Australia to disqualify Deakin and
Oarruthers and Bent for life on account of being
Australians, and import some Premiers.
+
The “Bloated. Manufacturer.”
On the fiscal question the Freetrade papers have
always ready a scream against “ the enriching of
the manufacturer at the expense of the taxpayer.”
The subject on which they preserve a dead silence
is the enriching of the importer. On the whole, if
anybody has got to be enriched, it is better that
it should be the manufacturer, giving employ-
ment to a couple of hundred men, rather than
the importer, with three anaemic clerks (two of
them girls), a dozen sweated salesmen and women,
and one fat traveller. (The manufacturer, by the
bye, would find employment for the anaemic ones,
the sweated ones, and the fat one, and the 200
workmen also.) But, as a matter of fact, the manu-
facturer does nothelphimself from the publicpocket
to anything like the same extent as the importer.
In Victoria the manufacturer has established
himself (thanks to a limited amount of Protection)
more securely than in any other Australian State,
yet even in Victoria his income is not comparable
to that of the gentleman who imports. Victoria’s
income-tax office has just issued some tabulated
statistics. From these it appears that 25. per cent,
of those who pay income-tax belong to the
“commercial class,” and only per cent, to
the “ industrial.” It is impossible that 25
men should be employed in selling the goods
made by 17| men—they are mostly engaged
in plundering Victoria for the benefit of the
foreign manufacturer, and growing rich on the
commission they receive. That they are growing
rich is shown by another part of the return,
which reveals that “merchants” paying an
average of £l5 11s. income-tax per head,
have the highest incomes in the State.
Even the land-grabbing “grazier” pays only
an average of £l5 6s. 6d. As for the “ bloated
manufacturer,” he only earns enough to pay an
average tax of £9 14s. Id., being lower in the
scale than the merchant, the grazier, the lawyer,
and the doctor.
Preferential Railway Rates.
When the Federal Government takes over the
Australian railways, it ought to up the
iniquitous preferential-rates system. The Vic-
torian railways, like those of almost all the
other States, are rotten with it. The freight
branch is apparently managed on the principle
that every ounce of loading ought to be dragged
to Melbourne, at no matter what cost to the “ out-
ports.” And it is a fine, old, long-established
scandal, too. Up to the beginning of this year,
all goods were carried at the rates promulgated
in the Freight Book of 1899. That publica-
tion which emanated from Chief Traffic-
manager Fitzpatrick, has been the despair of
those who have tried to understand it.
At last, in February, Tait s Goods Rates Book
came out. And now, every Victorian who has
business dealings with the Railway I P
is asking why Tait was imported to make
confusion more confused. The sameokl Preferen-
tial disease continues, swelbng Melbourne up to
bursting point, and leaving Portland, Port h airy,
W arr nam bool, Geelong, Bairnsdale, etc., like so
many disaster-stricken corpses. Look at a sample
rate-list: —
From Melbourne to—
Miles. Top rate per ton.
Ballarat .. .. 96 £1 11
Maroona .. .. 166 340
Willaura .. •• I'6 “
Dunkeld .. .. 200 |H 0
Hamilton .. .. 219 1o 0
Branxholme .. 235 ° a 1
At Branxholme the line splits North and South.
There is a 32-mile extension to Casterton, and a
38-mile extension to Portland. The Northern ex-
tension rates are:—
To Melbourne from—
Miles. Top rate per ton.
Grassdale .. .. 245 £2 2 6
Casterton .. .. 267 2 2 6
From Casterton to Grassdale the Department
carries goods gratis—in its fervor to cart every-
thing to Melbourne. The rates on the Southern
extension are: —
To Melbourne from—
Miles. Top rate per ton.
Condah .. .. 243 £2 0 0
Portland .. .. 273 2 0 0
So from Portland to Hamilton, a matter of 54
miles, the Department also drags things gratis.
It works differently the other way round. Like
this
To Portland from—
Miles. Top rate per ton.
Hamilton .. .. 54 £lO 0
Branxholme.. .. 38 J J “
Grassdale .. .. 48 10 0
Merino .. .. 56 1 } “
Henty .. .. 61 It 1 ?
Sandford .. .. 67 1° ?
Casterton .. .. 70 110 5
If the same rates were charged between Melbourne
and Branxholme, as between Branxholme and
Portland, the top rate per ton would be £7. _ But
owing to the preferential tariff, which begins to
work at Willaura, it is only £2. The question is :
If the Department carries goods 106 miles for
£3 Bs. 6d., and 207 miles for £2 2s. 6d., how long
would the line have to be before the Department
would carry goods for nothing, with a coupon
thrown in ? Thanks to such blastiferous
preferential rates, Portland and other out-
ports are being killed as dead as doornails;
and the coastal trade is just about killed with
them. From Casterton (267 miles) the top rate to
Melbourne is £2 2s. Od. ; from Goroke (also 267
miles) the top rate is £6 Is. The whole of that
difference of £3 18s. 6d. is simply because the s.s.
Flinders can’t call in at Goroke for cargo. No
doubt Australia wants its railways to pay. But
it is doubtful whether it pays to carry goods 267
miles for £3 2s. 6d.; if it does, what does the
State mean by charging some other people £6 Is.
for carrying the same goods? And, anyhow, the
financial success of the railways isn’t everything.
The coastal trade is an asset worth encouraging,
too. It breeds seamen to man ships in time of
war ; and that is a large point in its favor to start
with.
The Tory “ Gentleman.”
On May 25 that unwholesome publication, Sydney
Telegraph, made some new discoveries or rather
invented some new falsehoods—about the pro-
posed Federal graduated land-tax. There were a
number of them scattered over a leading article,
but the central lie—the large, beetling Ananias
that stood up like a tower or a cliff—was this one :
For such a tax is not intended to be revenue-producing.
Mr. Watson gives that as its only justification. No one,
he says, would pay it, or be expected to pay it, conse-
quently no one would have anything to complain about.
The owners of the land on which the tax would fall wmilil
be compelled to give it up, and thus avoid an impost which
thev could not afford to pay. Unless the tax had that
effect it would do nothing toivards burstmg-up the big
estates and dividing them amongst people who would be
exempt from taxation. The policy which requires Mr.
Deakin to adopt is simply that of confiscating the land of
one man and dividing it amongst many, without making
it a pennv the richer.
This sort of thing almost sets one wondering
whether the Telegraph is a paper written, edited,
owned and published by idiots, and circulating
exclusively in insane circles. The proposed
graduated land-tax is to exempt all properties
worth £5OOO or less. It will be very light—indeed
hardly perceptible—on properties worth £lO,OOO.
Any big landholder can escape it completely by
keeping only £5OOO worth of land—he can almost
wholly escape it by keeping only £lO,OOO worth
and selling the rest in farms worth £5OOO each ;
and then having transposed his £lOO,OOO worth of
land into £lOO,OOO cash he can invest the money
carefully in England to be away from dangerous
and democratic legislation. The Telegraphs
statement that it is proposed to make the land-
owner GIVE up his land is just plain lying. But,
then, the trouble is that the Tory party is almost
always lying. It has apparently come to be an
axiom with it that all the ordinary rules of de-
cency, truth, honor, good-breeding and gentle-
manly (or lady-like) conduct are suspended when
it talks of the Labor party or any other Demo-
cratic organisation, and that any falsehood, slan-
der, or misrepresentation is justifiable. And that
is why a great many people are fast coming to the
conclusion that among the Tories of Australia who
are politically conspicuous there isn’t one gentle-
man ; they are also beginning to doubt if there is
a lady. If what is often called “British fair-play
is a test, both gentlemen and ladies are very scarce
in prominent Tory circles.
O
The Wisdom of Motor-Car Kelly.
That dear little man, Kelly, M.H.R., whose
motor-car sounds like a large blue-bottle on the
highway, has come back from England with the
news, which he duly communicated to Sydney
Telegraph, that Australia shouldn’t attempt to
make any provision for its own naval defence. A
good many people have wondered for a long while
what possessed any constituency to dream of
Kelly as a possible member, and the ideas he has
brought back from England make the wonder-
ment still more acute. Here is one sample of the
gentleman with the buzzing car :
Mr Kelly holds that it is not practicable for Australia
to build a navy of her own ; her resources for the next
half-century would be insufficient, and because if her own
ships were afterwards wanted to co-operate with the
ships of the mother-country they would be infinitely less
valuable than the same number of ships designed on a
common design, and manned with crews of the same
standard of discipline as the ships with which they would
have to act. He does not think that the difficulty could
be overcome by having conscription in Australia, for the
reason that conscript forces, while impossible of utilisa-
tion while we still possess command of the seas, would be
absolutely incapable of safeguarding the integrity of
Australian territory once the command of the seas had
been lost. .
The first assertion is that four million Australians
can’t build a navy, though 2£ million Danes, or
2i million Greeks, or five million Hollanders, or
five million Swedes, or five million Argentines, or
three million Chilians can. Which is just the old
argument of Stinking Fish and Co. that the Aus-
tralian (like Kelly) is necessarily no good because
he is an Australian (like Kelly). The second
assertion is that if an Australian navy were built
it would be of less assistance in co-operation with
the British navy than the same number of British
ships owing to want of homogeneity in construc-
tion, &c. That may be so (though why the
ships shouldn’t be built on the British model
if it is a good model — Kelly _ doesn’t
explain); and the same argument might be
adduced against the Japanese alliance, which
is a combination with a naval power whose
ships, if they ever went into action along with the
British fleet, would be under the same disadvant-
age. Also, it would have been as good an argu-
ment against sending our men to help Britain in
Africa as it would be against sending our ships
(when we have them) to help Britain somewhere
else. The idea that we should never have
ships unless they can be of exactly the same design
as those of Britain (whose battleships alone in-
clude 19 different designs) is worthy of Kelly.
As for an army, Kelly holds that there are just
two drawbacks : it couldn’t get at the enemy till
he landed (which seems reasonable), and it wouldn’t
be any use against him when he landed (pre-
sumably because it is Australian ; a Dutch or
Chilian or Danish or Greek army might put up a
scrap, but Kelly, fleeing across the landscape m
his motor car, can’t imagine an Australian one
doing so). Then there is some more Kelly :
Imagine Australia at war with a first-class Power ,
under such circumstances what chance would the re-
sources of 4,000,000 of people living in the south-eastern
corner of Australia have against the resources of a people
of over 50,000,000? Obviously none. Therefore I say
that this conscription fad is absolutely useless. . . .
Harbor fortifications are complementary to sea power,
and their existence frees the navy for its real work off
the enemy’s coast line, for he can sail away in puisuit of
the enemy, knowing that his ports are safe against the
depredations of any stray enemy’s ship eluding his atten-
tion for the immediate time being. He is opposed to a
system of local ships for harbor defence, and favors guns
ashore, mounted only where the enemy must come.
“ For instance,” he said, “ two torpedo-boat destroyers
in Sydney would be able to safeguard the harbor from
any reasonable torpedo-boat attack. At £50,000 each,
they would cost £lOO,OOO, not taking into consideration
the expensive yearly upkeep both of ships and crews.
Yet half-a-dozen 12-pounder q.f. guns mounted at the
Heads would be equally effective for this purpose, and
would cost only £12,000.
This represents Kelly at his very best. Because
Australia couldn’t at present fight a nation of
50,000,000 single-handed, therefore it shouldn t
prepare to do what it can supposing, say, that
nation of 50,000,000 was fighting Britain and
spared a small part of its force to raid Australia.
Kelly divides the empire into watertight com-
partments. It makes 100 compartments of
4,000,000 people each. And because no one
of these could fight a first-class Power separately,
therefore they should all lie down and die. Then
Kelly holds that we should have harbor fortifica-
tions because they would release for foreign ser-
vice the fleet we haven’t got. And he proposes
that the guns should be put down “ where the
enemy must come,” at Sydney Heads, and it the
enemy didn't land his\ men at Broken Bay and
take the city (defended by the land forces which
Kelly says we shouldn’t have) in the rear, that
might be all right. Who invented Kelly, any-
how?
Grabbing the /flssets.
Besides the million a year which theN.S. Wales
Government gets from the sale of lands, and mis-
appropriates, using it as revenue, whereas it is
nothing of the sort, there is an item of much the
same character grabbed and misapplied in just
the same way. This is royalty on minerals—sub-
stantial already, and growing rapidly, especially
since the passing of the Act, three or four years
ago, to provide for an extension of mineral (as
distinct from coal) leases on payment of a royalty.
The rapid increase of the item and of the Treasury
grab is shown by these figures :
1903 .. £22,128
1904 .. 29,535
1905 .. 56,408
The royalty is paid on the output of mineral; and
as mineral can’t be removed twice, and as in
19 cases out of 20 the land is no use for anything
after the miner has finished with it, it is clear
enough that the royalty is equivalent to the pur-
chase price of the land. These mineral lands are
assets of great value—so long as they contain any
mineral. Taking a line from the market value,
the main area of public land leased by the Broken
Hill Proprietary Co. is worth about £25,000 an
acre. But when the co. has done with it, it will
be wortli certainly no more than half-a-crown an
acre, capital value. The royalty paid by the co.
is therefore simply the purchase money paid by
instalments. The State is realising one of its
great assets —its mineral wealth—and, as usual, it
is grabbing the proceeds, not to pay off the mort-
gage, not even to buy other assets, but to
pay the policeman’s wages, and to help
make up the interest on the loan that was
sunk in something that isn’t earning anything for
itself. There are probably other items of the same
kind; but here, anyhow, are two for certain —
land sales and mining royalties, both of whiqh
ought, in common honesty, to be applied to the
wiping out of the public debt; or, if not directly-
used like that, then they ought to be put into
revenue-producing works, and so ease the interest-
burden that way. So long as assets are sold and
the proceeds misapplied, the full extent of the
borrowing, and of the loafing upon the future,
will be disguised. Ror it isn’t realised that Aus-
tralia borrows from itself every time it grabs a
handful of assets, sells them, and uses up the pro-
ceeds to meet the month’s bills. Yet that is what
the transaction amounts to. And worse than
that—when a State borrows a pound it at least
gets a pound or a pound’s worth, whereas when
it sells its assets to raise the money, it
often doesn’t get ss. for a pound’s worth—as later
on it is apt to find out when, for instance, it goes
into the market to buy back an estate for closer
settlement. Even if Australia did not borrow a
cent from Cohen, its finances will never be clean
and honest so long as this other disgraceful
system is maintained ; and the alleged surpluses
will be a fraud and a fake.
«.
The Beating Heart.
A letter from Melbourne: —
The Women’s National Ass, likewise Melbourne City
Council, and the lugubrious Talbot were last week badly
possessed by gush and loyalty. Thousands of State
kids were roped in to impute in chorus much post-
mortem virtue to the Late Great Queen. The par-
sons, always cute showmen, seized upon the week
as propitious for the holding of a meeting to in-
vite subscriptions towards a new Seamen’s Mission
building. The star performers were the Vice-regal
streak, sundry bishops, and numerous preachers.
The Mighty Empire loomed very large and mighty
throughout the show, and the Talbot chief pro-
claimed as his proudest boast that the blood of sailors
ran in his veins. Also, he stated that, in common with
Edward VII., he takes a great interest in sailor-men, who,
according to Talbot, play an enormous part in “ keeping
the heart of the Empire beating.”
During these days of jubilation, and whilst these froth-
ings were in process, came to port the ship Melville Island,
from Peru, 99 days out. It carried a crew of ten
British tars and a stewardess, the wife of the cook.
For twelve weeks one-fourth of the standard allowance
of meat had been dealt out to the crew. Extremes of
heat and cold had exhausted them, rough weather
buffeted them. A shortage of lamp oil precluded the
cabin lights being kept burning. The rest of the avail-
able food may thus be scheduled Rice bad, maize meal
abounding in maggots, flour sour and lumpy. Before
reaching port the crew had become so enfeebled and
emaciated as to be scarcely able to crawl to their work.
Leaving the ship at Queenscliff, they were charged with
disobedience of orders, but the local bench dismissed the
case, although their agreements were not cancelled.
The crew, stewardess in tow, reached Melbourne to
find their captain implacable ; and thereupon invoked the
aid of Senator Guthrie and the Federated Seamen’s
Union. Solicitor Woolf has been retained on their
behalf, and hopes to get their discharges and collect their
wages for them. Although over £2OO is due to the crew,
they have been penniless since their arrival.
All Melbourne knows their circumstances. The gaunt
spectral men and piteous-looking stewardess have been
round the shipping office for a week. Not a hand among
all those who enthused about seamen, in theory, has been
raised to help them. They have not received the charity
extended to casual street curs. While Talbot and his
satellites have been spreading themselves in meaningless
platitudes, these unhappy wretches have been walking
about in the cold. And for all the “Empire Day”
shriekers and the seamen’s mission promoters seem to care,
they seem likely to do so indefinitely. According to
Talbot, they keep the heart of the Empire beating, but it
doesn’t beat for them.
»
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. opened the
doors of its Sydney office the other day to receive
applications from white men willing to go cane-
cutting in Queensland this season. Cane-cutting
is the work which, according to the melancholy
cry of Ichabod Tanna, the depressed individual
who is a broken-spirited white man outwardly
and a Kanaka within, the white citizen can’t do
and won’t attempt. In the words of the lamenta-
tion of Ichabod Tanna, the abolition of the
Kanaka, and the complete failure of the white
man to eventuate, were going, between them, to
leave the cane-fields desolate, like the ruins of
Babylon, or the place where Nineveh used
to be before it gave things up as a bad job. So it
might have been expected that there would be
one applicant at most, and he would be lame and
obviously incompetent, and possibly drunk, and
certainly abusive, and he would give “sass” to
the manager, and go away refusing to cut cane
for less than £6 a week and a feather bed to sleep
on. And the fact that there was an instantaneous
rush of 700 or 800 genuine working men, and that
surplus applicants had to be kept back by the
police is disconcerting. Apparently the funeral
of the sugar industry is postponed, and Bruce
Smith is bowled out again.
The Reid political campaign, in this letter which
falls into The Bulletin’s hands, is curiously, and
appropriately, mixed up with the sick, the halt,
the lame and the ignorant
Dear Madame,—Our chief, the Right Hon. G. H. Reid,
having commenced the election campaign for 1906, is
most anxious that our league, “The Women’s Social and
Political League,” shall return to work after its long
Christmas recess, I am therefore calling a meeting in the
Whitefield Institute, Pitt-street, when I have a commu-
nication to make from the Hon. G. H. Reid, as there is
most important work to be done in preventing; the im-
position of most outrageous customs duties on ever} tiling
that we consume, wear, and use ; and as Mr. Deacon (sic)
is prepared to give any return in Socialistic legislation to
Instructions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Prince of Wales’ birthday will be celebrated all
over the Empire.— News Item:
There are 12,000,000 paupers in Britain.— Campbell-
Bannerman.
Among Bull’s crowded cities, down Bull’s un-
peopled vales,
O let the prayer re-echo—God bless the Prince of
Wales !
Heed not the dreary paupers, who starve in gloom
and grime,
God bless the royal cypher and guard him every
time !
Let God pay strict attention to those of royal
blood ;
The millions do not matter—their name is simply
Mud.
Keep constant watch, we bid Thee, o’er him
whereof we sing—
Keep common boils and freckles from off our
future King !
Anoint him with rich unction, when Edward
VII. fails;
But meantime hear us calling—God bless the
Prince of Wales !
While others grab Bull’s markets, and parcel out
his land,
Guard Thou the Jews and Germans who own our
blessed Rand.
Yea, keep their Chows contented and fill their
lives with bliss ;
Keep purblind Britain waltzing above the preci-
pice !
Be gracious to the Monkey—our ally in “the
East ” ;
Let not our Empire crumble where we expect it
least !
Keep Kaiser Wilhelm peaceful, and Abdul,
called the Damned.
We note in Doom’s black doorway the Czar’s
coat-tails are jammed.
We thank Thee for that mercy—our cheek no
longer pales ;
And now heed this last warning—God bless the
Prince of Wales 1
He links us to the future, he binds us to the past;
May he arrive with profit upon the throne at last !
’Tis he alone who matters—keep anxious eyes on
him ;
Work overtime in Heaven, and rush the seraphim ?
Let angels guard him nightly whom all the land
adores.
He sleeps—let saints step lightly along the starry
shores.
Give first and best attention to him of royal
blood;
The others aie twelve millions—and all their
names are Mud.
They count for less than nothing—they are small
beers and ales,
But kings are god-like liquor ; God bless the
Prince of Wales !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


OALLA/~i£.
Two
H
es
MIXTURE. of
bac
1 %
5$
0
Yes, sir, I can generally
tell a gentleman by wot
'e smokes. Nine times
hout of ten hit’s
Gallaher Tobacco. ”
If you take this advice
You’ll never get ill.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
All coughing will kill,
So run off your cough,
And run up no hill.*
Prize Scheme for 1906.
£>2 so in Cash Prizes
RANGING FROM £S DOWN TO 5/-
to Collectors of Outside Wrappers
prom Caillers Chocolates.
J 062.10.0 .EACH QUARTER
Mch3l^ t .June3QT» sep3o™ Dec 15™
ALL SIZES, I?INCLUDED. ARE VALID.
/T> >o /?/> YOU,i Wrappers to
po.3ox/36. Sydney.
the Labor party in return for a stiff, systematic Protec-
tionist tariff, it behoves every woman to put her shoulder
to the Political Wheel to prevent beggary through Pro-
tection and abject Socialistic slavery.
Furthermore, the “ Women’s ' Social and Political
League” is giving a dance and social evening in aid of
, who, through misfortune, has become in very
great need of assistance. The said social will be held in
the \\ hitefield Institute—admission Is. We are forming
a very nice party for that occasion, and will be pleased if
you will join us.
On Friday, the 16th instant (afternoon) the “ Child
Study Association ” will hold its usual monthly meeting,
when all children of young persons who are ailing or de-
ficient will receive the benefit of Dr. ’s expert dia^*-
nosis. The members of the “ Women’s Social and Poli-
tical League ” are strongly interested in Dr. ’s
almost iniraculous.cures, and will be pleased to have your
kindly interest.
On Monday a moonlight excursion will be given to the
Bight Hon. G. H. Reid.
About Tasmania’s newest political stew :
One of the drollest things in Tasmanian politics has
been the reconstruction of the Evans Ministry. The little
skipper was left without Crosby Gilmore, the Attorney-
Oeneral. There were only two lawyers in the new House
• Dkvnistoun Wood, who was Minister of Justice in
Victoria 44 years ago, and D. C. Urqiihart, who had been
lasmanian Attorney-General in the Braddon Govern-
ment. Wood was old and rich, and disinclined for office ;
and young Urquiiart, who wasn’t rich and was inclined
lor office, had been returned as an Oppositionist. People
made all sorts of guesses as to what Sailor Jack Evans
would do, but none guessed right. Jack went straight
to ex-Premier Propsting (whom he had turned out of
office), offered him the Attorney-Generalship, and they
fell on each other’s bosom. Propsting, the other day,
wanted to make a clean sweep of the House of Dodery ;
but, since then, he’s taken a seat in it, and now leads it.
Thomas Bent’s threat that he will so re-
organise the Melbourne Board of Works that
there will be no more Board, had such a ring of
earnestness in it that the Board grew anxious.
With a view of averting Tommy’s wrath, it in-
serteci itself into special committee and passed
resolutions inviting all and sundry—
To come forward and offer suggestions in respect to
any economies which in their opinion could be effected in
relation to the board’s staff and business.
It is an interesting spectacle to see a body which
admits that it doesn’t know its own business, ask-
ing the man in the street to drop in at any hour
and tell it how to do its work, but the wild humor
of this fails to appeal to Bent. He merely remarks
that the Board’s resolutions make no difference.
A stage has been reached beyond that of inquiry,
and nothing will do but complete re organisation’.
Thomas is quite right there. The Board of Works
has been the subject of continuous inquiry for 10
or 15 years, but no one has ever heard of one half-
penny being saved by reason of it. Bent promises
that the Board of Works Bill will be one of the
first measures next session. But people are won-
dering whether the new men will be appointed
solely on their merits, and not, as in the case of so
many of Tommy’s appointments, largely because
they are the friends of people who are friendly to
Tommy.
The “great primary industries” and the “vast
natural resources ” that the Sydney daily papers
are always talking about can find out where they
really stand in those papers’ affections by some
remarks made the morning after “ Empire Day.”
It was just the day that the great natural resources
had been panting for. For months hardly any
rain had fallen, and the harvest was threatened
with failure. They had even had church prayers
for rain in some districts. And on “Empire
Day” the rain came—the rain that saved the
“great primary industries” from a wasted year.
The foolish country correspondent, who didn’t re-
member how the flags in front of the dingy old
S.M. Herald shop were drooping, wired away in
joy that the crops were saved. “The best rain
for years,” Hay wired. “The rain came just in
time,” echoed Moree. “Much-needed rain has
come,” Rylstone added. “ Farmers are jubilant,”
came from Raymond Terrace. “ Prospects,
which were gloomy, are now fairly bright,” far-
out Bourke explained ; and close-in Parramatta
said it was saved. But if they thought that the
professed champions of the “primary producers”
would rejoice with them, they mistook their
champions. “Unfortunately, an unkind fate
apportioned the weather for the celebrations,”
said the S.M. Herald. “It was hard to main-
tain the cheery note the day demanded ” on this
“ wet, depressing day.” And the Daily Tele-
graph expressed its opinion of the Providence
that the preachers had been praying to, in vast
black letters stretching over two columns :
Celebrations in Town and Country.
Affected by Bad Weather.
“The day and night were spoiled in city and
country,” it declared emphatically. The flags
hung “dismally in the monotony of the rain
showers.” A saved industry—what is that in the
balance against a flag that won’t flap when the
stout importer comes out in his silk hat to sing
“Rule Britannia”? These great natural re-
sources ought to be proud of their champions.
They never ought to mistrust them or doubt their
sincerity any more !
At the recent N.S.W. Parliamentary Jubilee
function, past and present members told each
other with great enthusiasm how they and their
predecessors had made the country what it is;
and the good old phrases “natural resources,”
“progress,” “free people,” “wonderful develop-
ment,” &c., &c.. hopped about the chamber as
thick as rabbits. Then Speaker McCourt rose and
blew somewhat coldly upon the glowing en-
thusiasm :
Since responsible government we have made consider-
able progress, but is that progress as sound and as real
as it looks ? It is true we have thousands of miles of rail-
ways, and hundreds of public buildings, but, as a matter
of fact, we do not own a sleeper of those railways, nor a
stick or stone of those buildings. They belong to the
people of England, from whom this State has borrowed
eijfhty million sterling in fifty years. It would not be so
bad n the money had been borrowed from people in the
State ; but, as it is, there has to be exported annually
trom Australia six or seven millions worth of produce to
pay interest on the country’s borrowings. With regard
to the defence of our shores, we are as badl v off to-dav as
we were 50 years ago. If England were at war with a
maritime power, the danger to Australia would be very
much increased by reason of its wealth, development,
and resources. By our land policy we have managed to
get rid of many millions of acres of agricultural and pas-
toral lands in large blocks, and have very little to show
as a tangible asset for this alienation.
It was a skeleton-at-the-feast sort of speech, but it
was lamentably true.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOII COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “For England.”
Criterion “ xh e Mart from Mexico.”
Hkk Majesty’s “ The Little Michus.”
Rickards’ 00.
Falack Theatre Madame Titus-Leslie Harris En-
tertainment.
MELUOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Her Majesty’s “The Dictator."
IIOYAL “ The Ni «- ht Bir ds of London.”
Oi era House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum Hall West’s Pictures & the Brescians.
♦
The Man from Mexico ” mellows and
improves with age. The fun at first was a little
chaot'c. Ihe value of the stresses hadn’t been
found. JNow the yarn develops better, and the
strong points show in clearer relief. Grace
J. alotta, who has much mock-serious work to do
express fear and dismay with a real tragic earnest-
ness: and that ultimately helps the merri-
ment. Hugh Ward’s sketch of a prisoner
pent has grown into a thoroughly artistic
study in comic lugubriousness. Willoughby (who
is picking up the twinkling legerdemain of his
partner m comedy) rounds off the trio. Altogether
it is a merry absurdity, and has given to Sydney
Criterion a vogue which that play-house has not
combination 6 dayS ° f the Br °ugh-Boucicault
** * *
Couldn’t a Commonwealth subscription be
raised to enable Mr. Leslie Harris to remain in
Australia . We want him far more than we do
a lot of flannelled fools and muddied oafs.
He comes here under the management of Allan
Hamilton as part of the Harris and Yearn ans-
litus combination that opened at the Palace on
Saturday night. He is a monologue entertainer
and an accomplished musician. Taking the
Honeysuckle and the Bee ” melody, he ran rings
of W agner and Mendelssohn around it and into it.
Si V th ” r Spri^ T S and Phases of
tlie Star of Eve from “Lohengrin.” He can
play with famous or popular airs as a cat with a
mouse and when he (very rarely) condescends to
be serious on the wires he has a master’s touch.
One item was awaited with curiosity because
King Edwiird, who likes to be made laugh, had it
repeated three times to his Loyal self. “The
PnvAltv W Paper ”. is item which made
Royaity totter on its basis with mirth.
It describes the latest blouse and the cut paper
patt - n ’ and how to clean paint, and pay
the National Debt. The reciter and the
political orator are also hit off most humorously.
Mr Harris writes his own dialogues, sketches,
S °TvPb and candoa quaint dancing step or
two. Madame Yeamans-Titus, whose accom-
paniments are played by her husband, is a
tall symmetrically-plump lady, with a golden
head. She gives an imitation of Dolores
singing Within a mile of Edinboro’
lown in so sweet a style that admirers of
Dolores invariably burst into spontaneous ap-
proval. Some coon songs were also appreciated
but coon songs and a Paris gown swear at one an-
other. Madame’s imitation of a little girl singing
and forgetting, and then remembering her words’
is a most fetching item. If the song of the clever
runsßd it is told to stop, Tennyson’s brook
will dry up first and become an arid and perished
stock-route. *
• 'e 4* Ip
‘The Prodigal Son” concludes
his ill-spent and interesting career at
Sydney Royal on Friday night, and on
Saturday J? or England ” will be staged.
1 his last chance of seeing the Prodigal
m his progress from hooray to husks
should not be missed.
Lauri will come out of his Umpire Gown
PnSfJ n ajeSty n° n ni 8 ht > and the whole
Comic Opera Co., which has been frivolling
through The Country Girl ”in a gay, irrespon-
sible manner, will approach “ The Little Michus”
in the chastened spirit that another production of
fo r' v There are tb «» Michus-
two (M ss Florence Young and Miss Margaret
Thomas) are little; the other is Miss Clara Clffton.
bhe is ma Michu. Reginald Roberts is to re-
appear after 18 months’ absence, while Haigh
Jackson takes a rest; and the mounting and music
extra ** 1S P be found something
** * *
A second impression of lecturer Bullen
emphasies the fact that he feels and knows the
things about which he speaks. A disjointed
jumpy all-over-the-ship affair is a Bullen lecture
but behind every sentence is a tinge of earnest-
ness. It is the salt made vocal, the sailor-
man’s thoughts and grievances and hopes
put ihto language. It is astonishing, until
you remember the effect that real feeling has and
deserves to have on audiences, how much this man
of few graces of speech grips his hearers. They
follow him almost lovingly; and all the time he is
preaching a little as well as yarning. “ England,
the supreme maritime country of the world,
is the only civilised country which hasn’t
its own training ships for the mercantile
marine. All other countries have training ships
on the water. England alone doesn’t trouble.”
And he goes on to inveigh against this national
neglect, which is a national crime, and to show
how it handicaps the British sailorman, until his
hearers feel real mad about it. Bullen would
make a fine speaker (on his own subjects) for a
political campaign.
X# * *
Miss Marie Narelle, who returns to Aus-
tralia after an absence of four .years, can look back
on some glad times. Almost the day she reached
London she fell on her feet on a star platform and
successes throughout Britain preluded a trium-
phant tour through the United States. Miss
Narelle’s concert party for the Australian tour
will include Mr. Chester Fentress as tenor.
** * *
The Tivoli is still afflicted with the epi-
demic which makes people balance ladies, wine-
glasses, and other brittle substances on their
eyebrows and similar unlikely places. The only
additions to last week’s programme, which already
had the epidemic badly, are Omega and the
O Natis troupe. The Grecian lady balances her-
self on a wire in a large number of attitudes not
previously thought of by other ladies who have
fluttered giddy fans at audiences in somewhat
similar situations; and the O’Natis—Algerian
jugglers—show how, by strict attention to business,
an energetic person can keep 61 articles in the
air simultaneously, and then wipe them all as
completely out of creation as the Auditor-General
wiped G. Reid’s surplus.
* Jtf * *
Originality is a dangerous thing in a farci-
cal comedy unless it be hurled at the understand-
ing of the public with unerring aim. In “The
Dictator,” produced for the first Australian time
at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, there is more than
MISS MARIE NARELLE (whose Sydney
season begins next month).
Photo, by Otto Sarony Co., New York.
a little which is new and strange to this country.
To begin with, the members of the co. are new,
and, although their quick, quiet ’Murkan comedy
method is no longer strange, it is not yet quite
congenial to Melbourne theatre-goers in general.
It supposes a somewhat unnatural capacity for
rapid thinking and prompt action in the characters
represented, and it requires special alertness of
comprehension in the auditors. On Satur-
day much of the dialogue was bewildering
rather than explanatory, because the actors hadn’t
found the “ pitch ” of the house. This is only a
first-night or a first-week defect. The performers
can certainly talk a little louder, and perhaps
they can slow down their tongues, but in the
meantime the performance has got an unmerited
character for vagueness, and those grumblers who
have missed the meaning of the best jokes in the
piece will not be likely to go a second time to be
further enlightened. “The Dictator ” is a rattling
clever comedy, and deserves a second hearing. All
the same it is not a possible Enormous Success.
Admitting the merits of the story, the ingeni-
ously bustling business and the character sketch-
ing, it can’t be denied that the plot is essentially
of Yankee interest. The humors of political life
in the South American republics are unfamiliar
to the average Australian, and his mind cannot
breathe freely in the atmosphere of Richard
Harding Davis’s fanciful farce.
* * * *
The story opens on the deck of a steamer,
just arrived at the harbor of Porto Banos, in the
Republic of San Manana. Brooke Travers, a
moneyed New Yorker, has fled from the con-
sequences of having killed a cabman by
accident, and he and his lugubrious valet
are travelling under false names. Casually he
has been making love to a girl who came out to
marry a missionary, the mongrel natives of San
M, an ana being badly in need of salvation.
Another passenger is the newly-appointed U.S.
Consul for Porto Banos, a scheming insurrec-
tionary Colonel. He has previously arranged a
revolution in the Republic with a view to appoint-
ing himself Dictator under the protection of the
Consulate Flag. But when the ship enters the
harbor the Colonel is warned that his scheme
has gone wrong. General Campos, with a fighting
force of 5000 dollars, lias raised a newer
insurrection, and is waiting to seize the
Colonel as soon as he comes ashore with his young
bride. Also a furious Senora Juanita is anxious
to murder him for his infidelity. The Colonel
decides that he doesn’t want to be the U.S. Con-
sul at Porto Banos, so he sells his credentials to
Brooke Travers, who reckons that if he becomes
a Dictator he needn’t extradite himself back to
New York for killing the cabman.
* * * •
The 2nd and 3rd acts, placed in the Con-
sulate, are full of incidents arising partly from the
revolution and partly from Juanita and other
matters. In a droll, unheroic way the fugitive
Travers is equal to the emergency. Juanita is
the only person who knows him for an impostor,
and he fixes that red-hot female by releasing the
missionary from gaol and allowing her to marry
him. She seems cut out for a missionary’s wife.
The blade of her dagger is a foot long, and she
promises to make short work of any natives
who reject her husband’s ministrations. Tra-
vers undermines the authority of General
Campos by bribing his troops. In fact,
he purchases a new and complete revolu-
tion for 10,000 dollars, but whilst the corrupt
army of Porto Banos is rallying round his cash
box an American warship sends a dozen marine B
ashore, laden with the glad tidings that the cab"
man isn’t dead, or that his decease didn’t matter-
The ending seems somewhat hasty. “The
Dictator” is a hasty proceeding throughout, except
at the start. It reminds one of a New York
financier swallowing an expensive luncheon.
There is no time allowed for proper enjoyment of
the good things.
* » * *
Barring the small, unimportant young lady
who figures as his best girl, the supporters of
William Collier are a carefully selected co. A
dozen various character parts are neatly filled,
and the smoothness and slickness of the
performance are most admirable. Perhaps the
manner is too pessimistic for a public that still
loves to laugh with George Lauri at his own jokes.
Nobody laughs in “The Dictator.” The hero
makes some noises which are intended for horrid
libels on laughter, and his valet perpetrates some
gruesome travesties of a smile, but they are true-
born American citizens, so they naturally act in
opposition to merriment. That’s where the
national sense of humor comes in, and we have to
take it as it comes. William Collier’s art as a
comedian is founded on the law of gravity—in
facial expression ; yet he is the exact antithesis of
a stolid comedian of the old English sort. Spry
in his movements, he scores the maximum of
effect with the minimum of necessary action. Con-
sidered in his central character of Brooke Travers,
an ordinary man governed by extraordinary cir-
cumstances, the comedian is eminently humorous
and pre-eminently unobtrusive.
** * *
“ Dr. Wake’s Patient ” is doing as well as
was expected at Melbourne Princess’s. A large
burst of applause rewards Farmer Wake every
evening when he rounds on the noble earl and
spoils everybody’s appetite for dinner. If he
were to shake his honest horny fist in the face of
his son’s future father-in-law he would probably
get a double encore. Melbourne accepts old
Wake as a genuine agriculturist, who tills
the bit o’ land which has been in the
family for three hundred years. Therefore, it is
hardly worth while to remark that if the family
had gone on for three centuries without worrying
itself about education and the graces of life, this
particular old Wake would never have toiled and
swatted in order to put his only son into the
medical profession and thus terminate the long
continuity of family farmers. He would have
put his boy to the same old tilling business,
and the boy’s only patients would have been
the sick cow, and the lame horse, and the
hens afflicted with the pip. But in the domestic
drama aforesaid the boy takes his M.D. degree,
and feels the pulses of the fine gentlefolk for two
guineas a time. Moreover he grows so utterly
unlike his parents that Miss Beatrice Day loves
him at first sight. It’s a pleasant little tale of
love, and Miss Day plays her share very charm-
ingly, with a lighter, more girly touch than she
showed on the first Saturday night.
** * *
“ The Night Birds of London” came to
light again at Melb. Royal on Saturday night,
and they misconducted themselves as of old.
Take them altogether, the bad people in Ander-
son’s present entertainment are aptly described.
They are Birds indeed. Some of the better
people are not above suspicion, for they get mixed
up with the Birds and accuse themselves of wilful
murder and unintentional bigamy. There’s a
highly respectable, heavy father who comes
to a violent end, and a mad lady who
burns her husband’s eyes out with vitriol,
and finally there’s a gas explosion which
brings forth the fire brigade and blows a
number of living and dead people off the pre-
mises, including the blind bigamist who married
Miss Duggan. The programme confers a doubtful
honor on Miss Duggan by publishing her name in
large type. That distinction should have been
reserved for the name of the foremost fireman.
He lends an air of probability to the drama by
pointing a real fire hose at a burning Bird-roost
and drenching the flames with a flow of steam
which looks somewhat like water. Nobody else
in the drama gets so near to a realistic piece of
acting as the silent steam-conductor.
** * *
At Melbourne Afchenseum Hall it is
announced that West’s Pictures and the Brescians
have come to stay. Maoriland pictures are loom-
ing large on the sheet this week, but there will be
another change of film next Saturday. The


e> W
'On,
CHP
Kjty
V* 0/f
GOOD POSITIONS FOR
GRADUATES.
“Home Study” post free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College, Bydney.
[9
Friend, when a cold invades the nose,
And damp the daily hanky grows,
When racking coughs distract the breast,
And rob you of your nightly rest.
And shooting- pains in chest and joint
To pulmonary troubles point
What can once more good health ensure,
Why, simply Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
ALMOST A MIRACLE.
Stomach washed out witb. a Tube Daily.
Mr. Samuel James Miles, for over ten years in the Railway Service, s.nds the following, and confirms the same
on oath :
Messrs.. with Acu te Dyspepsia; terrible* pains and swelling in the stomach,
accompanied two . Th Ve was no relief in any pos Jn, and I
would walk the floor at night praying for death to end my sufferings ; people living in the house can te,t. y to the
trUt ‘‘ ? waJSeTby' Drf—andVr-—?and took all kinds of medicine, and had my stomach washed out
dady with a & tienfc in Prince A i fre d Hospital for four months, and after leaving was sent to Rookwood
instead of Camden Convalescent Home. This was so that I might have constant medical attendance, my conditi
bein- so Lrious mid critfcal I stayed at Rookwood for two months, and left terribly emaciated, a complete wreck
The "doctor told me my heart was affected and altogether out of order through Dyspepsia. Any exeition, e ven
walking a short distance, would cause me to pant for b.eath, and sink down from sheer exhaustion. I was seldom
the^lxickfand(h e , advised me to take Fisher’s Phospherine, but I had taken so inuch
medicine prescribed, and also patent medicines, I said to myself, ‘ What good can Fisher’s Phospherine do me . But
each time Fred saa' me he kept on saying, ‘ Why don’t you try i isher s Phospherine t
“ A t last I bought a bottle, and after two days I felt greatly relieved and much better. I gradually regained
strength, and in about a month all pain had gone from the stomach, back, and head I felt a new man.
<<£) r . met me after I had commenced to take Fishers Phospher.ne and he said, why, M.les, you are
getting better ; you are a marvel ; my medicine is doing you good.’
I replied, ‘ Yes, doctor, the part of it I have not taken.’ ”
I make this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be true. g A j|UEL JAMES MILES
Subscribed and declared before me.—RICHARD M. WALSH, J.P.
Braseians, by the way, have changed their pro-
gramme in some respects, and the pvesent scribe
remarks with gratitude that their final efforts m
the orchestral line are more unanimous and har-
monious than they were aforetime.
** * *
Larola, late of Sydney, is the latest addi-
tion to a long bill at the Opera House. Larola is
a juggler of remarkable agility and a balancer of
the deepest dye. Slade Murray sings and patters
as he did when the world was younger, and two
of the song-and-dance girls are Brightie Smith
and Olive Lenton, each of whom has a bright
young personality and a graceful style. Liliette
Leyton has changed her comedietta, the String
Quintette are leaving for elsewhere this week, and
the days of Martinetti and Grossi are numbered.
“ Tambour Major ” achieved a successful
week and a half at Adelaide Royal before passing
on to Ballarat and other parts. It was splen-
didly mounted, and well enough acted and sung,
but its humor seems a little thin in these
days. Addie Campbell carries on the recent
Australian tradition of pocket-edition heroines,
and ought to go far. Of the comedians, the most
satisfying was Edwin Lester, with d’ quiet.
Vernon-like humor as the short-sighted Duke.
Miss Tittell Brune is now offering herself to
be flogged publicly every evening in an uncon-
vincing manner ; the fact that the incident fails
to convince is not her fault, but that of the
author. “ Dorothy Vernon ” is melodrama, and
United States at that, but it makes a good acting
play, and the public revels in its ingenious sensa-
tions. The Town Hall Biograph is now showing
some Adelaide pictures; as the time of taking
the photographs was wisely advertised, and as
most people considered it the proper thing to get
into the piciture, Adelaide will go down to pos-
terity as a place which is infested by seething
crowds of excited citizens—which is not the case.
Adelaide is really a rather peaceful spot, and
mostly it doesn’t seethe worth a straw.
** * *
About Ibsen :—•
There were two Ibsens. The one is illustrated by the
story of the actor who was lead of a “stock” co., and
had a little peculiarity. He played different characters
on different drinks. For the Silver King, he sought
inspiration in gin fizz ; for Hamlet, in stout ; and Hob
Roy he always played on Scotch. Once, he had a
birthday, or i't was Empire Day or something, and he
mixed his drinks wonderfully. The play that night
should have been “East Lynne,” but as the different
drinks worked, that leading man switched it on to
different parts of his repertory until it was a
hotch-potch of almost every play under the sun.
And the papers the next day discussed the
masterly presentment of an Ibsen play. The other Ibsen
is the hero of a cult which sees in him greater gifts than
any other dramatist of the world’s history had, and which
goes to an Ibsen play abjectly on mental all-fours. The
truth about the dead playwright lies between the tvvo
extremes. Ibsen was a great thinker, of the individualistic,
anti-Socialistic school. He chose the drama as a vehicle
for declaring his views, and thus from the first put him-
self under a handicap. For it is not the busi-
ness of the drama to illustrate “ views,” to air
fads, or to teach philosophic systems, but to
show the passions of life. As a dramatist-preacher
Ibsen could not be a supreme artist. In so much as he
succeeded as a preacher, he was doomed to fail as a
dramatist. But sometimes Ibsen forgot his pulpit and
rose to a presentment of life which was very real. “An
Enemy of the People,” for example, is a fine satire,
“ Ghosts ” a great tragedy. What distinguished his work
always was the directness and sincerity of the dialogue.
His characters never get on stage stilts. In this matter
Ibsen has profoundly influenced all notable playwrights,
since there is practically no modern play of any lasting
value but shows some trace of his example.
AT POVERTY POINT.
An Australian actress who seems to have got a firm
foothold among the recognised “useful” artists in
England is Nellie Mortyne. A good many years ago
Nellie Mortyne went off to the Cold Country to try her
luck, and it was not too bad. She gets engagements
whilst the picture-post-card actresses are mostly “rest-
ing.” Once or twice she has been engaged to come back
to Australia, but she didn’t get stranded on her native
coast when the tour was over. She returned to London
allee same as a foreign imported person. Just now Nellie
Mortyne is a member of Mrs. Pat Campbell’s co., taking
a rather exacting part in a new play adapted from the
French which is to be produced in London after a brief
run through the provinces. This appears to be the best
chance she has arrived at thusfar.
Demetrius Pnriedphish and Antonio Oysteropolous
turned up in force at Melbourne Masonic Hall last week
to hear a lecture by Nicholas George, a Greek person
w ith long hair and a brown face and the title of “ world-
walker.” Nicholas, in the course of his “ lecture ” (given
in Greek, and dramatically translated by an interpreter
for the benefit of the few dozen of the audience who had
not the language of Hellas), alleged that he had walked
from Cairo to the Cape of Good Hope, and from Perth to
Melbourne. He also alleges that he is going to walk to
the Northernmost tip of Australia, then take ship to
California, and walk right across America. Nicholas
carries a “journey book” full of signatures, including
that of his eminence the Duke of Connaught. But hasn’t
Australia got a Nicholas of its own who is something of a
< < world-wa !ker ” ? Wha t about a match between Nicholas
Willis and Nicholas George? Let them walk half-a-dozen
times round the N.S.W. Supreme Court.
Old man Lynch, the founder of the Lynch Family Bell-
ringers, had the last bell tolled for him, in Melbourne,
last week. He was a little past 84 when he died, and for
•23 years he had lived on the competence he earned as a
unique showman. Lynch presumably was the first to
raise hand-bellringing to the dignity of a musical art,
though it may be that he was only a follower of tradi-
tion. ° In any case, he was entitled to the distinction of
being the first man to train up a company of his own
flesh and blood in the way they should ring, and he made
his Family name familiar to the public of many lands.
Mr and Mrs. Phil Wirth, of the circus, will remember
their'recent visit to the Tweed Heads (N.S.W.). The party
went out walking on the training wall one night, and Mrs.
Wirth walked into the shark-infested water. Husband
Phil leaped after her and effected a rescue.
Earnest old Dr. Gosman, the simple-minded patriarch
of Vic. Congregational Church, mourns “ that no sus-
tained efforts are made to hold Christian services among
crowds at social gatherings, at the seaside, in halls, and
at theatres.” How would it do if Rickards put a theo-
logical exhortation in the mouth of the lady who is just
now being cuddled on the edge of a bath ?
“ Edyson ” : Remarks come from London that the
music-halls are abandoning their cheerful comedians, and
that their programmes are now built up almost entirely
of ballets and turns provided by jugglers, balancers and
other mechanics. How quickly the Australian alls reflect
the same tendency ! It is quite a time since Rickards,
who has an Australian monopoly in vaudeville business,
imported a decent comedy combination, but we get
bunches of dancing girls—sprightly performers, and quite
welcome, by the way—and dozens of teams engaged in
trickery. At Melbourne Opera House, lately, there was one
team busy juggling and another team juggling and
balancing, and a third team doing trick business with
banjos (a team had just gone that spun tambourines),
a lady was walking on a wire, and a team was producing
fair to middling music out of bits of bicycles, belltoppers,
pork pies, &c.
JOY.
The Earl of Meath sent Australia a cable on Empire Day. It contained the one word, “ Rejoice.
Picture of a typical alderman rejoicing—or else it is his audience which is rejoicing. The
Bulletin declines to rush to any rash contusions on the matter.
A ’Frisco Post headline in big letters Miss Nellie
Stewart’s Camille is convincing both on the intellectual
and on the emotional side of the character. Her last act
is better than the last act of any of the great emotional
actresses.”
Lecturer Frank Bullen gave his audience some sound
fresh-air advice the other night, and next day got this
note Dear Sir,— Being one of your audience last
night I took your advice, and threw my window wide
op;n to get plenty of fresh air, as you advised. When I
awoke this morning I found a strange cat had crawled
into the room and had kittens at the foot of my bed. I
was wondering whether this was the usual result. Yours
admiringly, •”
“ Hiphen ” : My soul loses its temper when I read of a
benefit concert tendered to a girlette of 12, to raise suffi-
cient funds to send her to foreign parts, there to be
tau'dit the arts, for the cultivation of which Ormond
leftsomething like £20,000 as an endowment for a chair
of music at Melbourne University, llie child is un-
doubtedly brilliant, but it is an insult to the shade of
Ormond fn particular, and to Australia in general, to say
that a maid of 12 cannot be taught anything more here,
but must go to Europe to absorb higher musical instruc-
tion.
“O’F.”: Henrick Ibsen, whose death is reported by
cable, had Danish, German, and Scotch ancestors. No
Norwegians figure in the Norwegian dramatist's pedigree.
He alwavs kept a particularly warm corner in his heart
for Scotland and the Scotch. Ibsen was born in 1828, in
a wealthy household. Eight years later the wealth
vanished. At 14 he was apprenticed to a chemist,
and remained at the business for six years. He
had an ambition to become a great artist, and turned out
some fair pictures. But he could not subsist by the
brush, so abandoned it as a professional implement. He
went through years of poverty as a poorly-paid stage
director ” and “ artistic director ” of Norwegian theatres,
and later in trying to live solely by his pen. Often enough
he could not pay the postage on his letters. At
last, with the aid of friends, he managed, when
he was nearing 40, to procure a Government pension
of £9O In his petition he said—“ It is not for a care-free
existence I am fighting, but for the possibility of devoting
mvself to the task which I believe and know has been
laid upon me by God.” He showed this belief in himself
as a prophet throughout, separating himself from parents
and other relatives for the sake of liis life-work. As he
put it, “ I am forced for a time to regard what con-
cerns myself as the only thing of any consequence,
and everything else as non-existent.” With the late-
coming success of his plays he acquired a good income,
and is reputed to have known how to keep a lump of it.
He took, on an average, two years to write each of bis
plays. He read comparatively little —more papers than
books-andwas fond of studying the faces in the street
from a window, and of picking up impressions of life as it
appeared in caffis. Getting an overdose of cramping piety
from his parents in boyhood, Ibsen soon gave up attending
church, and he was regularly denounced by the clergy.
Since 1899 Ibsen’s health had prevented him from
writing. He leaves one son, Sigurd (formerly Norway s
diplomatic representative in the U.S.A.). Sigurd Ibsen
married the daughter of Ibsen’s best friend, the great
novelist Bjornson, thus uniting the two most eminent
literary families in Norway.
Little Benno Scherek, who used to direct many of the
big Australian concert tours, is now working in conjunc-
tion with concert agent Daniel Mayer, a big London man,
who left the agency business some time ago, but has now
resumed it, much to the chagrin of competitors. Mayer
has for some years contented himself with the manage-
ment of Mischa Elman’s concerts, but, as soon as he took
up general business again there was a Tush of front-iank
artists to his banner, including Ada Crossley, Amy Castles,
the Hambourgs, and others of similar fighting weight in
a musical w’ay. Benno’s connection with the concern
seems to involve the duty of running round America,
Africa, and the uttermost ends of tin earth, and fixing
up business arrangements. Incidental.y, he makes some
few appearances on the piano-stool, when he feels that
.< Lerli ” : Barrie has at last succeeded in scoring a first-
class failure. Two short pieces, one a skit on the political
situation and the other a burlesque of Bernard Shaw,
were full of old wheezes and the most obvious of artifices.
None of the critics-and they are an indulgent, easy-
going lot who don’t want to hurt a manager s feelings—
would stand the stuff. Barrie has an annual income of
£20,000, and he surely can spare the time to woik out a
oood plav with really funny ideas. But in Chingland a
name is everything, and a manager would rather put on
rubbish by Barrie or Pinero than a real good thing by an
unknown person.
“Snell”: How generous is criticism to so-calltd
dramatic art ! I take it that a play like “ Dr. Wake’s
Patient,” which has large pretensions, and claims to be
representative of present day English comedy, should be
judged precisely as any other piece of imaginative litera-
ture is judged ; but let a novelist attempt to impose any-
thing of the kind upon contemporary reviewers as a pic-
ture of men and manners in our own time, and how much
mercy will be extended to him ? Critics of ‘ Dr. Wake s
Patient” all make most liberal concessions. This is im-
probable and that is unreal, but we overlook it for the
sake of the play.” A man of Dr. Wake’s standing and intelli-
gence, familiar with society as he is supposed to be, could
not possibly shut bis mind to the impression his parents
would make upon people like the Earl and Countess of
St. Olbyn. The John Bull farmer who was likely to ask
her ladyship if she did not find it a “terrible sweat in
day,” would inevitably have got on the nerves of his
polished offspring a thousand times, however kindly dis-
posed the vouth may have been to the old man. ine
hunt of Lady Gerania after Dr. Wake and of Dr. wake
after Lady Gerania is another absurdity, as each carefully
avoids the simplest means of finding the other, the
means that would instantly suggest themselves to the
average mind. Making plots is the easiest business in
the world if the plotter is not asked to be consistent to
his characters or respectful towards the probabilities.
“ Pro ”: I bet my boots—the bucket ones, in which I
acted Rinaldo Rinaldini—that Conan Doyle’s successful
play, “ Brigadier Gerard,” will soon be seen in Australia.
A word, then, on the plot: Napoleon, in his difficulties
of 1814 at Fontainebleau, employs Gerard to get some
vitally important papers from Madame Roquelaure, in
Paris. Gerard is in love with her. Talleyrand, hostile to
Napoleon, is after the same papers. He takes them by
force from Madame. Gerard tries to steal them from
Talleyrand, who has him gagged, bound, and put in a
box to be sent to Napoleon. Madame liberates him, and,
through a trick, Talleyrand is put into the box,
while Gerard escapes in Talleyrand’s cloak. Ihe
papers are in a pocket of it, but only Talleyrand knows.
Gerard, wearing the cloak, returns to Napoleon with
confession of failure. Napoleon dismisses him in a rage.
Then comes a letter from Talleyrand, to curry favor with
Napoleon, telling him the papers are in the cloak stolen
by Gerard. Gerard, however, cannot be found. He is
away fighting duels with other officers, a la D’Artagnan.
Napoleon appears on the scene in the midst of one of
these duels, and stops it. The papers are found, and all
ends happily. It is a farrago of wild improbabilities, but
it goes with vim.
The divine Sarah is putting up a fight against the
American Theatrical Trust, which has shut her out of all
the playhouses. On the nig'ht of 26th March she plaj ed
“Camille” in a huge tent, at Dallas, Texas, where she
thrilled 7000 people of the Wild West.
The little Australian Dartos (McLeans) were at the
Theatre Royal, Dublin, last month, and the Evening
Herald, of that down-trodden metropolis, characterised
their performance as “the most original turn” of the
programme.
Wybert Reeve, in a book of reminiscences published in
1891, said that Lady Don, who visited Australia in the
late lifties with her husband, William Don, baronet and
eccentric comedian, and who returned a few years later
when a widow, ended her days in the infirmary of a
Scotch workhouse.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is unde) -
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Rosamund : Sorry, but your battle-howl doesn’t
guit either. “ The roar of the souls that have fled” would
kill any poem. The dead don’t roar.... Wi. nga : Nogood.
Brother Harry : “Glove” unsuitable, and there was
no sign of the alleged stamp for return postage... E.C.R.:
“ Breaking of Winter ” fell down and smashed A.H.S.:
Pretty good description of a sunset. If we wanted a 3 am
about a sunset—which we don’t-we would buy your sun-
set.. .. One Who Knows : It might have been made impres-
sive, but you haven’t managed it worth a cent... .P.Q.K. :
“ Railway Station ” below par. It takes genius to ■ write
a brilliant poem about a railway station Cam : Love
and Jockeyship” not quite up Q.S. : ‘‘Beach’ de-
dined (regretfully)... .E.E. : “ Tyrant” rather weak ...
E AO: “Hissentiente ” rather obscure... .Lough Neagh.
Not in our line.... B. J.G. : Glad to get contributions
but your comment is hardly sharp enough, and touchtd
upon a point already dealt with....Zaduzalum . Vo
take too long to make your point... .P.H.B. . xo
have good material, but don t know bow t
manage it skilfully M.T. : Not in book form
so far as we know R.A.E.O. :We don tkn ....
Gam: “John Price” rather uninteresting... ...AW-N..
“Married Lover” bumps grievously. ....... Austrians .
“Coward’s Tragedy” small and weak fragment.....
E.K.: The two melon seeds that were shot into dad s ear
refuse to grow into a story Straight-out: One may go.
Cut out and forward to accountant. Bo«iulus. Not
much promise. (1) First get your yarn. (*) ®>«» tel '
yourself—don’t invent some Bill or Jim to tell it.... the
Pessimist: You fall too easily into the Pit of Bathos....
Roberts: Your highly superior letter rather misses the
mark. (1) The paragraph was one (te-written) supplied
by a coastal oflicer with a pilots certificate. (2) ine
Judge remarked : “ The case showed that one of the rules
of navigation was defective in not requiring a tug to indi-
cate when she had one vessel in tow' and another along-
side.” (3) The decision, apparently, isn t going to tiiin
on the question of lights as you prophesy, but on the
length of the tow-rope K. : Every deficient postage
letter has to be weighed, the postage calculatedl, sur-
charged as deficient, retained by the t.O. auth oil ties
(it is not delivered with other letters), and the deficiency
collected. If deficient postage letters increaseed 100 pe
cent., it would cost the post-ottiee many hundreds a 3eat
for extra labor. Abolisfi tfie fine, and d.p. letters wou.d
increase, not by 100 per cent., but by thousands per cent.
As it is, though The Bulletin has a rule (which is Often
enforced) to refuse d.p. letters and thus-flue delinquents
pretty heavily, we get scores of them every w eek. Those
d.p. letters alone, tracing them from postage to delivery,
involve at least one clerk’s labor (worth, say, £2 a w eek) .
and the postage isn’t half that, even with the fines....
Indian Ink: Any artilleryman will show you at least
three holes in that Indian yarn. Your informant knows
nothing of the drill....Melb.: But is she Ins witeG..
S L L : Progressive land taxation on the unimproved
value’ would tend to decrease land values; a.nd a jolfy
good thing too. Land values are much over-inflated m
Australia Cutting them down to a proper basis would
cause some individual hardship, but a nation s prosperity
cannot be founded on a firm basis until land is brought to
its real use value E.S. : Well, if you must wrangle
over the point, there is no Australian language (even
“ blanky ” isn’t Australian, but English), barring a few
slang words. We don’t believe in English titles, or
English tweeds, or English liquors, or m many
English ideas; but it is the English language, and
to b call it “Australian” would be nonsense....
W H. : Sorry that we can’t publish your verses designed
to warn your best girl not to be led astray by ball-100111
temptations. Your purpose is good, but your poetry is
bad.... George S. (U.S.A.): “What can you grow with
salt-water irrigation in Australia 1 :” Well, oysters for one
thin«- ..Pippa: Promising work, but not up to
publication level. That hymn could not well have been
sun«>- 80 years ago as it was written by Newman, who was
born in 1801.... Dogbody : You are disqualified.... Brother
Harry Very, very inferior... .W.H.8.: Not nearly good
enough.. ..Enquirer: (1) The Bulletin didn’t say Thomas
Kingston was 52; it merely published a letter from a man
who suggested it as his owm opinion. (2) Quite wrong in
the case alluded to. (8) You say she was a leading lady
20 years ago in England, and probably before that in
America. And presumably she was a minor actress
before that. Even if is true, you are a rude man to thus
reflect on a lady’s age.... William B. : You liav e a most
varied thirst for information. Here is the cocktail .
(1) The ancients did “temper” copper to haroen it.
It is often alleged that the art is lost. If it is.
The Bulletin hasn't found it. (2) The ancient art of
embalming is fully described by Herodotus, and doubt-
less could be as successfully carried out now but that
we’re not such asses as to take the useless trouble.
(3) Modern machines would give the rock-lifters of the
Pyramids 1000 yards in a mile and a heating. We
don’t build pyramids now, because again we are
not such asses. (4) The Melbourne Age has the
largest circulation of any Australian daily
Judea: “ Commissioner ” almost good enough. Keep on
at the light and humorous. Your pars want condensing.
Fair field : “ Chaplain ” is a very old idea not too well
clone A.8.W.: What with bad writing and ink-pencil,
which had run and smudged, your copy was unreadable.
If a thing is worth writing, it is surely worth writing
cleanly... .Rosak : Don’t care for your alleged story of a
wake.... Deb: Rooster yarn too puerile—why on earth
didn’t you make Henry marry the little lady who had
sacrificed so much ? Dickey Sam : Well, the contribu-
tions had drawbacks —regretable drawbacks... .Ceram .
You say, as a reason for importing a Railway Commis-
sioner, “an American or European manager must make
his line pay, and to do that he must bring his system to
a state of the highest efficiency,” &e. What magnificent
rot! Out of the 32 principal British railways, 13 did not
pay so well last year as the N.S.W. State-lines, and 17 d.d
not pay so well as the S. A. lines. As for the U.S.-well
perhaps the manager must make his line pay, but half the
time lie doesn’t. Railway insolvency is a fine art in the
U.S Unsuitable : Geo. A.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Nullo : “ Modern Gulliver ” quite unrecognisable. Is it
Bent?... .C.W. : “Scripture in School” is either qu.te
meaningless or the meaning is unpublishable......
R M D.H. : Hopeless as pictures. Have retained one to
see if it will appeal to artist as a suggestion. Will pay
for it, as such, if he can stand it G.L.B. : All four very
crude, and most of the figures seem suffering from incur-
able diseases... .H.J. : “ Empire Day ”is a moderate idea
poorly worked 0ut....5.5.: Not enough point about
“ Arthur.”


F urred vShins
Rabbit iSßiris
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNfIENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY
f
you CAN flpp PLEASURE
To .your Trip by taking a CAMERA with you. You need not
know anything about Photography. Nor is it necessary to obtain
an expensive Camera. Select a RELIABLE INSTRUMENT with a
GOOD LENS—a Camera that will fold compact, is light in weight,
and Simple to operate ; one that takes really good Photos at a
trifling cost. WRITE FOR PARTICULARS, OR ASK TO SEE—
HARRINGTON’S FOLDING VICTOR CAMERA,
1906 Model. PRICE 355.
IT TAKES PHOTOS Ilin. x 3Jin. —PORTRAITS, GROUPS, VIEWS, &c.
Then there is the DUPLEX NO. 3 CAMERA— a superior compact,
little instrument which can be used for Plates or Roll Films, and takes Photos.
4jm. x3iin. Although small, this Camera possesses movements facilitating use for
all kinds of Photograph}'. Price £4/12/6. DON’T TAKE A SUBSTITUTE ! I
Illustrated Catalog tie Free.
HARRINGTON %?£■
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEOROE ST., G.P.O., SYDNEY 5
93 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
Society
PINFOLD'S
WINES
TIVOLI OPERA HOUSE , ’FRISCO, AFTER THE ’QUAKE.
In Melbourne last week Justice A’Beckett,
in Divorce, upended all the pretty precedents
about clean hands,” and all that —and inciden-
tally discovered a husband who had supplied his
wife with a complete twopence in the whole
course of their eight years’ married life. Peti-
tioner’s evidence showed that the tuppenny hus-
band had kicked and beaten her, torn the clothes
from her back, turned her out of doors in the
middle of the night, and done other play-
ful things. She was fully entitled to a decree
on the ground of desertion, but—there was a
recent baby in the case. Thereupon a man climbed
into the witness-box and assured his Honor that
he was the father of the recent baby, and was
eager to marry the woman if he got the chance.
His Honor took a week to think over what Mrs.
Grundy would say about it. Then he decided to
let Mrs. Grundy go to the waxworks, and gave
the lady her decree, saying that “the interests of
public morality did not demand that he should
prevent this unfortunate woman from ever marry-
mg again.” Which was an eminently sensible and
moral way of viewing the occurrence.
“Wurryni”: The
other day a chance re-
mark reminded me of a
ghastly experience of
years ago. I had regu-
larly, during country
trips, stayed at an old-
established and out-of-
date hotel in a certain
Queensland town. On
this particular occasion
1 went as usual straight
from the train to the
room .1 had always occu-
pied. The door was
closed but not locked, so
1 entered, and in the
half light—the blinds
were down—saw lving
on the bed, a Thing.* It
raised its head, and
hoarsely whispered,
“ What do you want ?”
Heavens, what a face—
scaly and thick-skinned,
with hideously leonine
features! 1 dropped to
the facts right there. I
was looking at a leper.
It raised a hideous,
clumsy, scaly hand and
mumbled “Go.” I went.
No man ever left a
hotel more rapidly. The
other day a man threw
some particulars at me
and revived the horror.
I would rather have done without the particu-
lars than have that episode recalled to mind.
The leper was a near relative of one of the big
squatters of the district, and had been a pas-
toralist himself. A Chinese gardener, employed
on the station, had for years suffered from
leprosy, and ultimately died of it, and the curse
of cheap yellow labor came home to his em-
ployer. What influence was brought to bear to
have this leprous squatter “quarantined” in a
hotel in a populous town for nearly two years,
Lord only knows, but it was known to at least
half-a-dozen townsmen that a leper was confined
in a room in the hotel, and that he was visited at
intervals by a doctor. Ultimately he died, and
those in the know say that a merciful overdose of
morphia ended the outcast’s troubles. The hotel
existed up to half-a-dozen years ago, and may
still exist for all I know. It used to be crowded
at race times, and when visitors were told that
“every room was already occupied,” it presum-
ably meant that the leper’s old apartment was
occupied also.
* * * *
Bathurst welcomed the Governor-General,
the other day, and when the bill came in (Bill
always comes in on the heel of celebration), the
committee expressed great satisfaction at the
decorations. The flags had been numerous and,
as they’d been borrowed, cost little. But there
was one fly in the ointment :
Alderman Perry: “What about the cheering' on that
day ? ”
Alderman Craig : “ That was a disgrace to the citizens.”
Alderman Perry : “ No doubt about that.”
1 ( or future welcomes the committee ought to see
to the cheering—should buy cheering, in fact (it's
fairly cheap), and let it figure in the Bill.
In this issue are printed two vivid pictures
of the ruin wrought in ’Frisco by the recent earth-
quake. They were brought to Australia by Mr.
Fred. Shipman, who is bringing also a sensation
of a much pleasanter kind in Miss Marie Narelle,
the Sydney singer, who comes back to her native
land loaded with laurels.
* * * *
Melbourne Trades Hall Council is con-
sidering a proposal to establish a Trades Union
Flub m order that its members may drink to their
own profit rather than contribute to the support
+1 * l< J® nse d victuallers. It is a significant fact
that the proposal comes from a representative of
the Hotel and Caterers’ Employees’ Union. The
men who work for pub.-keepers are naturally
anxious to introduce the principle of co-operation
among the beer-drinking majority of the Labor
party. One or two members of the Council raised
teetotal objections to the scheme, but for the
working men who spend money at pubs, there is
every reason why their patronage should be
diverted to a Trades Union pub., with club com-
forts appertaining thereto.
A VIEW OF RUINED ’FRISCO FROM THE HOPKINS ART INSTITUTE.
Not many men acquire the habit of sud-
denly falling dead. Most of those who try it on
get buried at the first attempt, while the business
is more an experiment than a fixed custom. But
e ven the rule that a corpse is dead has its excep-
tions; and Charles Clements, a North Queens-
lander, is one of them. His first death happened
w civ afc te Ph ens Creek, on the Barrier
(JN.b.YV.). His neglected remains were found
on the surface of the earth, and the
police were driving the corpse in to the
morgue in a cart when it sat up and
asked for a drink of water. After a spell in
hospital, Clements left for S. Australia, and a few
weeks later his cadaver was picked up in the
street at Port Pirie, but once again he suddenly
came to life before he reached the slab. Instead
ut offering him an engagement at the local wax-
works or the music-hall, the Adelaide beaks took
a hand in the case and absurdly relegated
Clements to the Parkside lunatic asylum. He was
discharged from the asylum and went to the
Adelaide Salvarmy Home last month. He hadn’t
time to drop dead in the Home ; but after he left
it his earthly tenement, from which the spirit had
fled, was picked up in the main street of Salisbury,
ihere was a letter addressed to the police in the
pocket of the earthly tenement, explaining the
methods to be taken to bring it to life again.
After three-quarters of an hour of hard work the
Salisbury trooper resuscitated Clement. A col-
lection was got up, and he was sent to Broken
Hill. He arrived there on May 9, and on May 11
his vital spark had again been mislaid, and his
unresponsive clay was just outside the Tarra-
wingee police station. The police had heard of
him, and brought him round successfully. Next
day he left with the intention of walking home to
North Queensland. If anyone picks him up dead
on the track, it would be wise not to bury him in
a hurry, because he’ll resurrect in a few hours,
(•lust as The Bulletin is going to press it hears
that Mr. Clements was found dead on the
1101 them road, but after remaining deceased for a
day he ceased to be defunct and passed on.)
Melbourne is rather inclined to approve of
Judkins, the vociferous purist who charges Chief-
oecretary Cxillott with gross negligence of duty as
regards the “Tammany” methods of the tote
crowd. If Cillott be not in possession of certain
alarming facts on the point it is certain that he
ought to be. A man walking along Swanston-
street late one night was knocked senseless (from
the rear) _ with a sling-shot by a leading sport.
Ihe assailant had a little mob of ruffians in
attendance on him. A few people who saw’ the
dastardly deed, and could swear to the identity of
the doer, were kept silent by their consideration
tor their owm safety. And where were the police ?
I hey were where the ultra-moral Judkins says
Hey always are when their interference would
clash with tote-shop interests.
Empire Day in Sydney was an occasion of
much slush. The alderman persons slushed
Oratory around. The Heavens wept and the
streets were as slushy as the speeches. The flags
slushed, and the goloshes of heavy, loyal citizens
sloshed soddenly. At the Stock ICxchange it was
ai ranged that at noon all loyal stockbrokers and
sharks, and company-promoters and others, should
gather and cheer the Empire and Japan. It
rained so hard that everybody wore an umbrella
and a dejected air, and the cheers fizzled like
dam p fireworks. Girls~of all ages-who wore loyal
badges to show that they loved Japan or the
Empire, found that the badges “ran” when they
got into the rain and spoilt their frocks ; and their
loyalty weakened. It takes a very robust feminine
loyalty to withstand a ruined blouse. - But the
unhappy school kids, rain or no rain, had to
Einpne valiantly and listen to the aldermanic
oratory, and drink the ginger pop; and on a cold,
wet day ginger pop is a most unsatisfying drink,
and lies like a cold, damp squid on the stomach.
The little town of Palmerston North
(M.L.) has provided two murders lately. The
last one, for which William Knowles has to
stand trial, was done per revolver. The victim
was Knowles’ wife, from whom he was separated,
and who had sued him for maintenance. After
he had shot her in the street he bent down and
kissed her, saying he supposed he’d “be strung
for it.” Knowles was a pious Salvationist, and
formed one of the farm-burning cohentingent in
Boer war time. There seems no end to the
cohentingenter’s capacity for getting into trouble.
* * * *
They have a weird streak of humor at
Manly, Sydney’s marine suburb. About 10 p.rn.
on Thursday night, last week, distress lights were
tossed about where the shapely barmaids usually
batho in brief costumes on the ocean beach, and
the startled Manlyites became aware that a French
barque was in the breakers. It was lying on its
side, and the whole South Pacific and all the
Southern Ocean that wasn’t otherwise engaged
were pouring: over it with a fury that made
assistance from the shore impossible. Manly rose
to the occasion with all the grace of a cow rising
off the grass. Telephone messages were sent to
the pilot steamer, and as no rocket apparatus was
available somebody ordered out the brass band.
It came along with its instruments, and stood
manfully amidst the spray as close to the wreck
as it could get, and played the “ Marseillaise” and
“Home, Sweet Home.” This is surely the first
occasion when a wreck has been serenaded from
the shore, but when a man is hanging on to the
rigging under such conditions he doesn’t want to
hear “Home, Sweet Home.”
Mr. FRED. SHIPMAN and his wife camping
out in the suburbs of ’Frisco after the ’quake.
Thirty of Bent’s public buildings in Mel-
bourne are still unsewered. Private property
owners are compelled to connect their buildings
with the sewerage, but Bent, with many financial
burdens on his head and many loans falling due,
refuses to spend money in that direction. The
Houses of Parliament, the Melbourne gaol, the
morgue, a number of State schools and police
stations (including lock-ups and courts) are in-
cluded in the list, and they are buildings the
sewering of which should be regarded as impera-
tive.
EMPIRE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lord Mayor announced that lie would ask the
children some questions. “What are we celebrating? ”
he asked. °
“Empire Day ! ” the three thousand veiled,
asked <] ° eS E,npire oa - v mean?” 'the Lord Mayor
Queen Victoria’s Birthday!” the three thousand
yelled again.
It means,” said the Lord Maj or, “ the memory of our
late beloved Queen Victoria. Repeat that, children.”
the children repeated it. . . . “He was sure that the
celebration of Empire Day would cause all the children to
have a stronger affection for the throne of England.
When they sang 1 God Save the King ’ they would mean
it. There was no song or hymn that did children so
much good.”
The children began to talk while Mr. Bent spoke. . . .
the Archbishop said: “Ours was indeed a glorious
heritage, and in the hearts of millions to-day there glowed
a flame of love for and dutiful obedience to the King.”
, —Argus.
Children dear, let me hear you say—
Hip-hip-hip-hoo-blessed-ray !
Open your chests and stretch your throats,
Reach up high for your top, top notes !
Now, then, listen what I’ve to say—
This is our glorious Empire Day.
So cheers for the King ! —and never mind Australia !
Cheers for the Queen! —the old Queen dead and gone.
Cheers for the Gaud Mayor in his tin regalia !
Cheers for all the noble things they’ve never done !
Children dear, let me hear you sing
“ Gawd save (and he’ll need it) our King ! ”
Stand on tip-toe and wave your hands—
Take your time from the lovely bands.
When you’ve finished you’ll have to pray—
This is our glorious Empire Day !
So, yell for the King /—to pot with mere Australia !
T ell for the late Queen ! —you’ll find her hard to wake.
Yell for the Throne /—and all its paraphernalia !
But don’t you dare to whisper for Australia’s sake 1
Children, dear, let me see you show
Sign of intelligence ere you go.
What do we celebrate ? Why is it done ?
Why do you each get a tract and a bun ?
What is it makes you so glad and gay ?
Loyalty—Royalty—Empire Day !
So, cheers for the King! Who cares about Australians ?
Cheers for the Church ! the bulwark of the Throne.
llowl, gorge, and dance, be joyous Bacchanalians.
Cheer for every cause and country—save your own !
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


ƒd
NICE WARM *
WINTER SUITS
£3 3s.
To Your
Measure
R. C. HAGON
Merchant
Tailor,
129 KING ST., SYDNEY
The welkin above Sydney Harbor must
have gone to bed with a bad headache the day the
fleet of Monkeydom arrived. First, Admiral
Monkey discharged 21 large crackers at the port,
and the port blew off 21 huge noises at Admiral
Monkey. Then the latter tired 15 explosions at
the local admiral, and the local admiral called him
another in 15 similar explosions. The fleet next
fired more explosions at its consul or somebody,
and by this time the welkin was knocked on to
the ropes. The Governor-General happened
along, and 19 fresh explosions sent the welkin to
the floor, where it took its ten seconds. Then
Admiral Monkey blew off 17 guns at the State
Excellency, and the welkin’s seconds dragged it
out of the ring. Of course, there were corres-
ponding explosions when Admiral Monkey re-
turned the visits of the Excellencies, but by that
time the welkin was knocked out and insensible.
* * * *
The fable about the maid, the Jap, and
the gloves is being told, this time of a Melbourne
tea-room girl. The last time The Bullejin
heard the fable it was given as a true story from
the interior. A military Monkey-inan, travelling
Australia in search of cavalry horses for the Jap.
Government, was quartered some days at an up-
country pub., and the landlord’s daughter waited
upon him. On leaving the hotel he proposed to
send her half-a-dozen pairs of gloves, but the girl
suggested “something for the neck ” m preference
to gloves. So the inscrutable foreigner smiled
horribly, and three days later the young woman
received a box of scented soap “for her neck.
The same fable has been told of different charac-
ters in 6VGry country where soup is used for neck-
washing purposes. Ordinarily it is a patriotic
story, i.e., in Britain it is told of a Britisher in
France, and in France the joke is turned against
an English girl. In Australia it appears to have
been adapted by the Stinking Fish party, for the
purpose of Japolatry.
THE PESSIMIST.
“ Mary, my husband has been finding fault with your cooling .”
“ Ah, sure, you mustn’t blame the poor man. It’s his nature. Faith, I’ve even heard
him findin' fault with you!"
A Queer Sydney D.T. advt. that sounds
nvft-Vm pr ho of someone’s romance
ago. I
W love you ; still loyal. “Silent Diamond.”
love } ou, i * *
**. , , ,
A venerable gentleman who objected to
most things was before Adelaide Police Court,
last week.” He was there because he objected to
his son’s not supporting him. The son had offered
him a home if he would leave the lady he was
living with, and he objected to do that. When
the P.M. had overcome his objection to taking an
oath, the ancient stated that he had been married
by “ private written contract ” 25 years ago, there
being “no other means” of getting married at
the moment. But. as it is futile to suppose that
one could live in S.A. for a quarter of a century
without encountering a parson, he must have
objected to the marriage ceremony. YV hen it
came out that he owned two houses, and only
failed to get his rents in because he objected to
distraining, the Court became tired, and showed
him to the door. And he objected to be shown
the door.
* * * *
Gentlemen wish to look should
first cl^ 1 artists are 3
k unde? Patronage of Lord Nortlicote.
Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.
The North
M e 1 b o u rne
police have
for years re-
frained from
storming the
fastnesses in-
habited b y
the “Crutchy
Push.” Occa-
sionally a
plucky po-
liceman has
engaged in
a “cutting-
out ” man-
oeuvre, when
a member of
the redoubt-
able impi has
become too
a u d a c ious.
The Push,
however, usu-
ally teaches
the strategic
one som e -
thing about
the game of
bash. On a
few occasions
a “pushite”
has been
run in. Dr.
Lloyd, the
chief magis-
trate on the
North Mel-
bourne bench,
has then shown
his inordinate
sternness (and, in-
cidentally, one or
two other charac-
teristics) by order-
ing the trembling
delinquent to sub-
scribe to the ex-
penses of the poor to
the extent of a few
shillings. The Push,
seeing the error of its
ways, hands over this
exorbitant amount in a
chastened spirit. Natur-
ally. Robert the con-
stable, standing in the
witness-box with his ear in a sling, feels that
his wounds are as nothing compared with the
humiliation the Tush has suffered. Perhaps
Lloyd wishes to exterminate the Push by taking
away its means of cigarettes.
* * ** *
There is a pub. in Fitzroy (Vic.) with the
queer name of the Labor-in-Vain ; and it got its
name in the papers the other day through a queer
coincidence. According to a yarn told to Judge
Box, it was there Thurzea Keith met a farmer
from Kangaroo Grounds, who engaged her to act
as his housekeeper, at 10s. a week and found.
She swore (and two witnesses partially corrobo-
rated her) that she had toiled for four years, living
in a two-rooined hut, doing domestic duties,
pruning trees, spraying, and helping to plough,
without receiving one penny of wages. Also, she
swore she had lent the farmer sums amounting to
£2O. The farmer of Kangaroo Grounds laughed
at the whole yarn, and said he had only given her
a home out of charity. Judge Box dismissed the
case without comment —which was a pity. Ihe
case of a man who utilises a woman’s services for
four years for her mere board calls for a whole lot
of comment. And the woman was engaged at
the Labor-in-Vain pub 1
It is difficult to die in Woodend (Vic.).
Its shire health officer reported recently that in a
year he had given 13 death certificates two for
infants, one for a baby still-born, and 10 for
adults. One adult was middle-aged ; the other
nine averaged nearly 80 years of age. The
youngest of them was cut off in the flower of his
youth at 71; the oldest ceased to blossom at 88.
Moral for expectant legatees : Keep the old man
away from Woodend.
* * * *
Somebody called Sargood was in San
Francisco when the earthquake occurred, and
when the person called Sargood got back to Mel-
bourne, the Argus interviewed him. It was evi-
dent that the person called Sargood had seen very
little of the ghastly show, but the Argus printed
the interview just the same. Nothing makes the
Argus happier than to print an interview with a
person called Sargood. The journal is so devoted
to the importing interests that, when Judgment
Day arrives, the star reporter will be sent to ob-
tain the impressions of a person called Sargood.
The man who reports the debt cases will be good
enough to get some sort of a paragraph out of
Gabriel.
# * * *
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteract the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
Juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
A FAIR TRIAL.
KIND GENT : “Do you know, my lad, that long
indulgence in cigarette smoking is ruinous to
the constitution? ”
RUDE BOY : “O, rats! I been smokin’ ever since
I was a kid, an’ they never done me no
harm.”
The U.S. soldiery seem to have put up a
fine record of murder among the ruins of San
Francisco. Witness these items of news just to
hand :
If a man did not stop when called upon, or answer when
spoken to, he was shot there and then. The troops,
police, and special constables received orders to shoot
any persons who disobeyed them in this respect, and
they executed their instructions to the letter.—William
Collier, the actor-man ivliose press notices were burned.
I afterwards saw four men deliberately shot dead for
refusing to help to clear broken masonry off the tram
lines. I saw a young fellow, a resident of San Francisco I
was told, shot dead by a policeman or soldier—l cannot
say which just now. He was carrying a bottle of whisky,
and was called on to halt. He took no notice, and he was
shot dead on the spot.—T. Garrick, of Collier’s Company.
Several men were caught among the wreckage of
jewellers’ shops going over the debris. They were shot
'instantly by the soldiers. Anyone required to work by
the military was shot if he refused. —GrantStrwart, Occi-
dental Hotel.
Three or four sailors, whilst off duty, broke into a
saloon, and, helping themselves freely to liquor, drank
themselves into a state of riotous intoxication. On the
arrival of the first patrol they were bayonetted by order of
the commanding officer.—J. A. Roberts, formerly of
Dunedin. . .
My informant begged me to give him my handkerchief.
He was a young doctor, who in his hurry 7 and excitement,
had forgotten to wear a badge, and had been fired on
twice by patrols.—Stack, Press Association Manager. ■
The papers report that one poor old man was delibei-
atelv bayonetted by a patrol for merely remonstrating,
and that another of these guardians stabbed a policeman
who interfered in some way with him. Stack again.
Merchants, on going into their own stores, were
ordered back, and on the slightest sign of refusal were
immediately shot in their tracks.—R. J. Poolton,
I saw one man who was digging over a heap of debris,
and he was shot without a word. He may not have been
engaged in any 7 wrongful act, as it is possible that he
may have had a store or a house upon that spot.—George
Hunter, of Newhaven.
It seems to be doubtful whether the earthquake
or the soldiers did the most killing.
* * * *
The latest bill-of-fare exhibited in Sydney
reads: —
Cup of tea, £d. ; bread and butter, £d. ; soup and bread,
Id. ; porridge and milk, Id. ; pudding, Id. ; saveloy and
bread, 2d. ; meat, vegetables, and bread, 2£d.
Looks like a Booth London doss-house menu. The
restaurant responsible is run. by the religious
mission of which Ebenezickery is a leading light.
* * * *
A wicked wag managed to give the idea to
some of the Jap sailors in Sydney that the sign,
“ registry-office ” meant something quite different,
and a Mary Ann depot was visited by a band of
brownies, who promptly Well, the police
had to rush in to clear up the misconception.
IN NATAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Wednesday.—The Natal Field Force, under
command of Colonel Mackenzie, has shelled the chief
kraal of the rebel chief Siganandi. The force under Major
Baker has burned a number of kraals in the Ekombi dis-
trict. The native women are wailing nightly in the busn
over their dead.
Ring they again so soon,
Where the bloodstains scarce are dried,
Those paeans of tyrant pride,
Those harsh knells of the free,
The gold-fiend’s musketry ?
Thirsting again so soon 1
Hark to the wild dog’s croon !
Under the sward is gold,
The lure of the white man’s greed ;
And white and black must bleed,
And the black must flee or die,
For his kraals they overlie
The gold that his hills enfold ;
And what is a home to gol.l ?
Where shall a “ rebel ” lurk ?
Never a gorge so deep,
Never a hill so steep,
Never so dense a brake
But the bullets a way will make ;
The guns will do their work
Wherever the rebels lurk !
Gold for a rebel’s head ;
Gold at the rebel’s feet;
Death is the sentence meet,
Death for the freeman brave.
Wail o’er the undug grave,
’Twill be a mine instead.
Gold for a rebel’s head 1
N.S.W.
JAMES WEBE.
Kidneys all Diseased.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“ Four vears ago I started to vomit blood, ’ said.
Mrs. Marv E. A. Peek, of Blende St., North
Broken Hill. “The doctor said my stomach, liver
and kidneys were all diseased. For the next
three years life was one round of misery. I went
from bad to worse. At last, a kind of paralysis
settled in my right arm. I was as good as crippled.
Many a time I prayed to God to let me die. But,
in the end, I was cured for good by thirty boxes
of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They actually saved
my life.
“For a long time my health had been
wretched,” said Mrs. Peek. “Every few days I
had a bilious attack. 'Headaches came on just
over my right eye—and then shot through to the
other side of my head till I wanted to scream.
My nerves went to pieces. I jumped with fright
from no cause at all. I could not get out of my
head the thought that something dreadful was
going to happen. I was so down-hearted that 1
took no interest in anything. I fairly hated the
sight of food. I had no energy for my house-
work. An hour’s ironing left me that I couldn t
stand. Every week I grew paler and thinner.
My cheeks fell in and great dark circles came
under my eyes. I looked the picture of bad
health. I was as weak as a kitten. One day mv
head suddenly started to swim, and the next thing
I was down in a dead faint. After that I had
these fainting tits every few days. When down
town I often felt the sudden turn coming on, and
I would have to go in some where to lie down till
the fit passed off.
“Early that winter I caught cold, and every
bone started to ache. There was a sharp pain
between my shoulder-blades that cut right into
my lungs. Every time I breathed something
stabbed me in the right breast. The pain from
my shoulders soon settled in the small of my back.
Sometimes it was a dull dragging ache—some-
times it was like a red-hot brick burning into my
flesh. Day or night I was never free from it. In
bed I lay first on one side and then on the other
—but I could get no ease. But the worst pain of
all came in the pit of my stomach. A few days
after, I started to vomit blood. That gave me
such a shock that Mr. Peek sent straight for the
doctor. As soon as lie saw me he said my stomach
and liver were in a bad state, but they were
nothing to my kidneys.”
“ Why doctor,” I said, “it can’t be my kidneys.
My back aches fit to break —but I have twenty
other things worse than that.”
“ Oh, backaches aren’t the only sign of Kidney
Disease,” he said. “Ninety-nine backaches out
of a hundred have nothing to do with the kidneys
.—and many a person dies from Kidney Disease
without ever having a backache in his life.” _
“The doctor understood my case all right,”
Mrs. Peek went on, “ but his medicine did me no
good. My skin was dry and hard, but often I
would break out in a cold sweat. _ Every week I
grew weaker and sicker. The fainting fits came
on more often and every few days I vomited
blood. God only knows how I went through it
all. I would have welcomed death with all my
heart. The strangest thing of all was the queer
feeling in my right arm. It would be all pins and
needles one day—and the next day it seemed to
go dead. My fingers grew numb, and my whole
arm was useless. It would stay like that for two
or three weeks at a time. Everyone said it was
Paralysis.
“ I liad given up the last atom of hope when
Mrs. Kern, of Hindley St., Adelaide, made me
get some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I owe my life
to them. The first box gave me a great appetite,
but I was well on with the tenth box before I
stopped vomiting blood. After that the headaches
and backaches eased up. When I had finished
twenty boxes I was a different woman. Everyone
told me how much better I looked. I kept on
getting more pills from Temby and Lower, in
Argent St. When I had finished the 30th box
there wasn’t a healthier woman in Broken Hill.
Never again will I waste my money on doctors.
Whenever I see any of my friends in ill-health, I
tell them that half-a-dozen boxes of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills are worth all the doctors in Australia.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t act on the
bowels. They don't tinker with mere symptoms.
They contain just the elements that actually make
new’ blood. That is why they are the surest cure
for all blood diseases like anaemia, biliousness,
indigestion, rheumatism, lumbago, kidney and
liver troubles, and skin troubles like pimples and
eczema. And, for just the same reason, they are
the greatest help in the world for growing girls
who need new blood, and for women who are
troubled with irregular health, especially those of
forty-five or fifty, when the blood becomes de-
ranged again. But you must get the genuine Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People—price
2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d., from all chemists
and storekeepers, or direct by mail from the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney. If you are in
doubt about your illness, write to the same
address for free medical advice.*
The Joseph Government has, according to
report, made up its mind to resume Clovelly, at
Watson’s Bay (N.S.W.), as a public park. Since
Jack Robertson raised his first mortgage on the
ground the prospect of unloading the property on
the State was kept well to the front through
many loans and transfers. Several Governments
would have bought the place, but were unwilling
to oblige the mortgagees.


TIN and GOLD SLUICING PLANTS
As supplied in the Tin Districts of N.S.W. with great success.
- Robey Portable Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Etc. Apply—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, 64 Pitt St., Sydney.
' Rubber Belts',
.Packings,
& Hose,
- Made
-to Order.
Dunlop
Mining
Goods
Are now being used with satisfaction
in mfist of the Leading Mines of
Australasia-Their QUALITY fr
WEAR are U/15UBPA5SED-
Tenders a- Samples submitted.
Correspondence invited.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
The DUNLOP RUBBER CQ of AU3. LTD.
IQB Flinders St./Vlb. frAll States
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1900.. 99,859 9 p.c. = 90,000 9,859 1,229,876
New Share Premiums .. .. 46,404 1,276,280
Sept., 1900.. 100,463 10 ~ „ 100,000 463 1,276,743
Mar., 1901.. 100,153 10 ~ „ 100,000 153 1,276,896
Sept., 1901. .104,647 10 „ ~ 100,000 4,647 1,281,543
Mar., 1902..115,507 10 „ „ 100,000 15,507 1,297,050
Sept., 1902. .118,229 10 ~ „ 100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Mar., 1903..115,793 10 „ ~ 100,000 15,793 1,331,072
Sept., 1903..117,370 10 ~ „ 100,000 17,370 1,348,442
Mar., 1904..119,582 10 ~ „ 100,000 19,582 1,365,024
Sept., 1904.. 120,435 10 ~ „ 100,000 20,435 1,358,459
Mar., 1905..127,811 10 ~ „ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept., 1905.. 126,963 10 ~ „ 100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar., 1906..129,385 10 „ „ 100.000 29,385 1,472,618
The profits of this bank were saved by the reduction of
the rates for deposits. It holds £25,352,701 of deposits ;
assuming 60 per cent, of this to be at interest,
a reduction of £ per cent, means £76,058 a year;
and that gives a bank a nice margin to come
and go on. Certainly rates for accommodation
have been lowered too in many cases; but, as just re-
marked, it takes a good deal of lowering to wipe out
£76,000 saved in interest. And, then, the Bank of N.S.
Wales has been helped by the inquiry for country lands.
On that point, however, the chairman, at the half-yearly
meeting, noting that advances were almost stationary,
said “ they had no desire to force matters nor‘to encour-
age any spirit of speculation.” Likewise they might hope
that the highsprices for products would continue ; “ but
so far as the value of land was based on them, a fair
margin for a set-back should be preserved.” If the bank
sticks fast to that policy, in the long run it will be best
for the shareholders, and it will certainly' be better for
the public. In some respects the sudden plentifulness of
money is likely- to prove a long-drawn-out curse to this
country, instead of the great advantage it ought to be in
promoting manufacturing industry-; for it is forcing up
the price of country lands, and making it easier for
settlers to borrow largely-, and so rivet on their backs
a burden of debt which, in normal seasons, will be simply
intolerable.
The comparison that follows shows how matters
in connection with the Bank of N. S. Wales have moved
lately-:
Mar., ’O5. Mar., ’O6.
Notes in Circula-
tion .. .. £992,659 £1,027,892 Inc., £35,233
Bills, &c 2,461,843 3,303,305 „ 841,462
Deposits .. .. 23,787,243 25,352,701 ~ 1,565,458
Liquid Assets .. 11,540,189 13,958,459 ~ 2,418,270
Advances .. .. 18,531,766 18,591,358 ~ 59,592
Premises .. .. 700,000 715,000 ~ 15,000
Two years ago the bank had £lOO,OOO on short call in
London ; it has now no less than £2,230,000, and fortu-
nately- for its profits, the rates for this class of money have
lately been unusually high in London. This mean's that
this great institution, not willing to help to boom Aus-
tralian farm lands, has to ship off its deposits to Europe,
because through the absence of a reasonable tariff there
is no growth of industries in Australia to absorb the
money legitimately. Fortunately for shareholders, there
is a way to make the public pay for its own folly—the
rate of interest paid to the vastly greater number of
depositors is cut down. With that and the help of the
temporary brisk demand for money in London, the
earnings on the basis of shareholders*’ total funds have
been maintained as follows:
Sept., 1902 ..£7 3 5 p.c. Sept., 1904 ..£7 3 0 p.c.
Mar., 1903 .. 619 9 ~ Mar., 1905 .. 710 10 ~
S-pt.,1903 .. 7 011 ~ Sept., 1905 .. 7 8 8 „
Mar., 1904 .. 7 210 ~ Mar., 1906 .. 710 3 ~
Including the short call money in London, the bank has
liquid assets amounting to 47 per cent, of its liabilities to
the public. This is probably about 12 per cent, more than
reasonable safety requires, or at least would require if
there were manufacturing industries here to provide a
banking business in good commercial paper.
* * * *
Compare the position of the Bank of N.S. Wales
with that of the three great banks of Germany, where
High Protection has established industries and provided
the banks with a magnificent lield. The thiee great
German banks are the Deutsche, the Dresdner, and the
Discorito Gesellschaft ; and for the past three years their
net profits have been as follows :
1903. 1904. 1905.
Deutsche.. .. £1,065,063 £1,051,335 £1,166,393
Dresdner.. .. 559,714 831,170 797,129
Disconto Ges. .. 662,374 724,699 813,488
Totals £2,287,151 £2,607,204 £2,777,010
In 1905 the variable amount required to remunerate
directors and as bonus to other officers in the Disconto
Gesellschaft is assumed to have been the same as it was
in 1904. For more than the shareholders benefit by the
prosperity of these banks ; in 1903 the Deutsche Bank
distributed £75,000 in pensions and bonuses to officers,
in 1904 the amount was £BO,OOO, last year it was
£lOO,OOO. Taking the three banks together, their deposits
have moved along in the following remarkable manner :
1903 .. .. £68,188,751
1904 .. .. 84,986,456
1905 .. .. 96,242,682
When Australia, as the result of two .or three extra-good
seasons, gets a rush of deposits on a very much smaller
scale than that, all it can do is either send the money to
Europe, or use it to give land a speculative value, and so
make it harder for the man who acquires the land to get
a living off it later on. Meantime, depositors are obliged
to take less for their money-, and bank employees are told
that they- can’t have a rise as so much money- is lying
idle. Germany, on the other hand, uses the money to
promote industry; so that in the same three y-ears
advances and bills receivable have moved this way :
1903. 1904. 1905.
Deutsche .. £45,931,852 £52,200,107 £59,961,835
Dresdner .. 24,513,181 31,002,657 34,813,140
Disconto G.. 20,686,478 25,433,195 27,505,121
Totals £91,131,511 £108,635,959 £122,280,096
And even that doesn’t tell the whole tale, because there
has been a steady increase of investments in subsidiary-
banks, which have also increased their advances ; and
there have been investments also in industrial syndicates.
It has been shown that the Bank of N.S.W. has liquid
assets representing no less than 47 per cent, of its
debts to the public. It can’t "find industrial securi-
ties t in Australia, and it doesn’t dare to nail
down the money in landed securities—and mortgage
business isn’t banking, anyhow. Though it isn’t possible
from the published accounts of the German banks to
completely- separate from the other securities those which
in Australia are termed liquid assets, yet this can be
said'!: Their cash, cash balances, &c., represent, on the
average, 15 per cent, of the deposits. There is no need
to maintain a vast proportion of the money in idleness or
semi-idleness, because the bulk of the commercial paper
is easily and promptly realisable—it isn’t like the land
mortgage which, for want of a better, is the Australian
bank’s backbone. So German banking profits are high ;
prosperity and a rush of deposits are used to promote
industry, and so swell the tide ; deposit rates don’t slump
as soon as a little extra money comes in ; and bank
officials share in the prosperity. This is High Protection.
Germany has had its Socialism and anti-Socialism, but it
hasn’t been fool enough to either hang up or sink the
fiscal question while it discussed the subject. It settled
the fiscal question first—and then it found itself so busy
that it hasn’t had time to fool about laughing at a little
round man running horrible bogeys through with his
sharp tongue.
* * * *
The London Bank of Australia :
Dividends.
1 ■-* Taken
Pref. Ord. from
Loss. s£p.c. 2J p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1896 .. £4,627 £9456 £14,083 £2,916
1897 .. 8,125 9456 17,581 20,497
Carried to
Profits. Reserves.
1898 .. 10,885 9456 1,429 19,068
1899 .. 15,056 9456 5,600 13,468
1900 .. 14,816 9456 5,360 8,108
Reserves.
1901 .. 23,354 9456 13,898 5,790
1902 .. 13,690 9456 4,234 10,024
1903 .. 22,956 9456 £9207 4,293 14,317
From
Reserves.
1904 .. 16,893 9456 9192 2,755 11,562
Added to
Reserves.
1905 .. 23,194 9456 9193 4,545 16,107
This bank, whose present management is hampered by
the most onerous scheme of reconstruction under which
any Australian bank labors, is one of the very few that
have been able to turn the plentifulness of Australian
money to good account. As this table shows :
Old 4£ p.c. De- Paid off Interest Paid
posits Outstanding. During Year. During Year.
1897 .. £3,260,678
1898 .. 3,189,098 £71,580 £171,930
1899 .. 2,232,675 956,423 115,640
1900 .. 1,911,964 320,711 91,335
1901 .. 1,591,092 320,872 71,611
1902 .. 1,589,271 1,821 71,516
1903 .. 1,586,865 2,406 71,457
1904 .. 1,586,366 499 71,365
1905 .. 1,258,090 328,276 62,687
In addition to the £328,276 paid off last year, another
£320,000 has been paid off during the last month or so—
not, of course, shown in the present accounts. That
means (not reckoning in this last £320,000) that since
1897, the year of the last reconstruction, £2,002,588 of
this heavy 4J- per cent, burden has been removed. This
has been done mainly by adding £1,425,773 to the other
debt to the public (new deposits, bills, &c.) and by reduc-
ing the reserve of liquid assets by £180,802. The balance
(£396,013) has been -made up out of capital called up, and
by realisation of securities. The latter process has ap-
parently not been very rapid, though it was assisted in
1898 by writing £504,485 off capital, followed in 1903 by a
further writing off of £368,272 —a total of £872,757. In
1897 the advances totalled £4,756,237; they are now
£3,522,296, or £1,253,941 less. That leaves £381,179 not
represented by written off capital. Thus, of the
£2,002,588 paid off there is—
Represented by new debt .. .. £1,425,773
Paid out of liquid assets .. .. 180,802
Paid by realising securities .. .. 381,179
Total £1,987,754
This leaves £14,834 provided out of calls and profits. Of
course more than £381,179 of old securities have been
realised —they have gone and new securities (better ones,
it is to be hoped) have taken their place. And though so
vast a proportion of the old debt is represented by new
debt, the latter probably costs the bank as an average no
more than 2£ per cent. , while the old cost 4J per cent. ;
as against wliich certainly has to be set the fact that a
smaller proportion of the new debt represents money
that can be safely employed.
Comparing the figures for the past two years
these results show up :—-
1904. 1905.
New Deposits .. £2,592,203 £2,935,600 Inc. £343,397
Notes in Circulation.. 120,472 106,144 Dec. 14,328
Bills in Circulation,
&c. .. .. .. 562,597 607,603 Inc. 105,066
Liquid Assets .. 1,681,692 1,644,597 Dec. 37,095
Advances .. .. 3,376,075 3,522,297 Inc. 145,622
Premises .. .. 381,295 383,187 Inc 1,892
The increase in new deposits probably means that much
of the money which previously cost 4| per cent, has Come
back to the bank for 3| per cent. The increase of deposits
means larger profits—and larger risks. The bank that
increases its advances largely with money plentiful and
prices high has to be on the watch. The premises
account stands where it did in 1897 ; it looks as though
the bank had not been able to make much profit above
the amount disclosed, to be used for writing down. The
earnings on shareholders’ funds have been :
1898 .. £1 3 11 per cent. 1902 .. £1 9 8 per cent.
1899 .. 1 12 11 ~ 1903 .. 4 2 4 „
1900 .. 1 12 4 „ 1904 .. 2 16 7 „
1901... 2 11 5 „ 1905.. 4 2 11
The increase shown during the last three years is due
mainly to the reduction of capital. Still, with the old
burdensome debt being got rid of, it should be an easier
task for the bank in the future, always provided things
go well with Australia. If they don’t the 4£ per cent, can
be reduced to 3 per cent. ; but the unpaid interest to
make up the 4-J per cent, must be made good before
either lots of shareholders can get a dividend. As for
new depositors, they appear to be amply protected, any-
how.; at December 31st the liquid assets represented 56
per cent, of the debt due to them.
* * * *
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New
York :
Total Added
Out- to
Income. Claims. Expenses, goings. Funds.
& £/ £ £ £
1895 .. 9,978,939 4,748,815 2,135,762 6,884,577 3,094,362
1896 .. 10,421,359 5,262,203 2,107,705 7,369,908 3,051,451
1897 .. 11,312,833 5,316,642 2,063,053 7,379,695 3,933,138
1898 .. 12,116,267 5,071,029 2,157,406 7,228,435 4,887,832
1899 .. 12,932,673 5,540,220 2,535,825 8,076,045 4,856 628
1900 .. 13,018,126 5,404,560 2,674,923 8,079,453 4,938,643
1901 .. 14,267,844 5,968,433 2,830,329 8,798,762 5,469 082
1902 .. 15,148,791 5,937,070 3,098,214 9,035,284 6,113 507
1903 .. 13,985,720 6,798,278 3,295,234 10,093,512 3,892‘>08
1904 .. 18,521,964 7,137,351 3,429,108 10,566,459 7,955,50 s
1905 .. 16,479,675 7,415,984 3,152,985 10,568,969 5,910,71(5
This is one of the American insurance offices that manv
Australian policy-holders are watching anxiously. The
foregoing figures indicate that income and amount added
to funds slumped heavily during last year. But this
calls for some explanation. Instead of maintaining
a separate Investment Fluctuation Reserve, as nearly all
the good Australian offices do, this American office re-
values its securities annually (under the American law),
and it brings the gain or shrinkage into revenue account!
In 1904 the re-valuation put £1,816,600 on to the previous
estimate; in the past year, £568,945 was written off
securities were worth that much less than the 1904 esti-
mate. Disregarding these fluctuations, and sticking to
actual income from premiums and interest, this would be
the result for five years past
Added to
Income. Outgoings. Funds
1901 .. £13,403,335 £8,798,762 £4,604 573
1902 .. 14,900,840 9,035,284 5,865,556
1903 .. 15,901,432 10,093,512 5,807,920
1904 .. 16,705,364 10,566,459 6,138 905
1905 .. 17,048,621 10,568,969 6,479,652 '
And that makes the business look a lot better.
Australia has had its leg- pulled a great deal
over these American offices. Almost all the information
it has got during the past 12 months has been tainted.
All the cables and most of the other news have dribbled
through England, and England doesn't like the American
offices. When a paper has to talk about another country,
it prefers, if possible, to say the unpleasant things and
report the unpleasant news. That passes for patriotism.
And the American party papers gave the English
papers plenty of unpleasant stuff to pick from. English
and Australian papers alike, they mostly hate State audit,
and they jumped at the chance of showing the f utility of it;
and that is the head and tail of most of the exaggerated
yarns that have been told. All through, so far as Eng-
land and Australia are concerned, while nominally they
have been attacking the American offices, really they
have been trying to get their knife into State inspection,
supervision, and audit. Allowing that there have been
sharks around these offices (as there probably are around
some Australian offices), and allowing that the State
supervision did not go far enough, the figures nevertheless
show that the faith of the Americans in their offices has
suffered mighty little. And, anyhow, if some things have
gone wrong because State supervision hasn’t gone far
enough, Heaven only knows why things should improve
by abolishing supervision altogether.
The income of the Mutual Life of New York
from premiums and interest was last year £343,257
greater than it was in 1904. The income of the three
largest and most vigorous Australian offices put together
—A.M.P., National Mutual, and Citizens —was £168,230
more than it was in 1904, or less than half the Mutual
Life’s increase. The pew premium income of the Mutual
Life was £1,778,960. The combined new premium income
of the same three Australian offices was £270,145, or not
one-sixth as much. The Australian offices are doing
excellently, and ought to be doing even better—most of
them. But these figures show what, deep down in their
pockets, the Americans think of their own offices, and,
incidentally, their own system of State supervision and
audit, in spite of all the shrieking and hysterics. When
Australian offices have to go through the same fires, The
Bulletin only hopes they will be able to show as fine
proofs of the people’s confidence at the end of the year of
trial.
Of course, the shrieks— and the things that
were behind the shrieks—had some effect. The new busi-
ness wasn’t as big as it had been. Possibly that was to
some extent due to the abandonment of business in
places where it had to be bought at the highest prices.
The expense-rate gives some proof of this :
Expenses Compared with Income (Premiums and
Interest.)
1900 .. £2l 9 6 per cent. I 1903 .. £2O 14 6 per cent.
1901.. 21 2 4 „ 1904 .. 20 10 6 „
1902.. 20 15 10 „ | 1905.. 18 911 „
This is still, however, very high. The co., even though it
is doing better, is still paying far too stiff a price for its
glittering figures. It is the size of the new business that
makes most of the difference between this co.’s £2O or so
and the A.M.P.’s admirable £8 15s. 6d. Charging the
Mutual Life of New York’s renewal income with 7 per
cent, (which it should not cost, in view of its extent),
and its annuity income with 3 per cent., we get £763,267
as the cost of that part of the business. The balance
(£2,389,718) may be regarded as the cost of new business ;
and that means 134 percent, of the new premium income.
On the same basis the A.M.P.’s new business last year cost
it only 89 per cent, of the new premiums. The comparison
is thus all in favor of the Australian office. The
difference between 89 per cent, and 134 per cent, means
something substantial in bonuses. The A.M.P. would
now have £64,863 less available to distribute if its rate
had been 134 per cent. And whether it would have been
any better off, if it had got a much larger business at the
increased rate, is exceedingly doubtful. - Yet the A.M.P.
has just been foolish enough to decide to chase after this
same bigness.
On its average funds last year the M.L. of New
York earned £4 4s. lOd. per cent. The two previous
years it earned £4 ss. 4d. per cent. (The A.M.P.’s figure
last year was £4 9s. Bd. per cent.) As hitherto, the vast
bulk of the assets are in “railway and other debentures
and stocks” (£50,989,923), £22,540,279 is in U.S. mort-
gages, and only a poor little £3,486,846 is in Government
securities.
* * * *
The Mutual Life of New York has given a
prompt answer to the proposal that it should transfer its
Australian business to an Australian insurance office. It
couldn’t dream of doing such a thing.
•v * * -k-
The A.M.P.’s first Industrial report probably
gives no idea of the future ; if it did, it would be better
to cut the loss and be done with it. Total premiums
were £6123, expenses £19,069, and claims £124. This
means that for every £1 that policy-holders drew, £154
went in commissions, salaries, and other expenses ; it
cost £3 2s. 3d. to collect every £1 from the policy-holders.
Even for a first year’s experience this is pretty bad. And
it is doubtful whether the figures show the full extent of
the badness. Nothing is charged, apparently, for the
services of directors, general manager, and other such
officers. Every district secretary in the service has done
some work for the new department, and it looks as if all
of this were given to it gratis. In other words, the
Ordinary Department appears to have paid the whole
of the salaries of men who have given some of their time
to the Industrial Department; and yet the Industrial
Department shows this vast expense rate. In spite of
the A.M.P.’s prestige, it isn’t by any means certain,
either, that it will for some years show a low rate. The
fact is that, when other Industrial offices started, they
were started by men who were pretty desperate—who
put in a tremendous amount of work for very little pay.
On the other hand, the A.M.P., one of whose difficulties
is a plethora of senior officers, set to work with a
number of well-paid men who were not desperate.
The struggling Standard last year, with an Industrial
premium income of £22,866, paid only £1976 in office
salaries; the A.M.P., with a premium income of £6123,
paid £3746. This is one of the difficulties the A.M.P. will
have to crawl over before it will be able to show respect-
able figures.
The tremendous cost of the fourpence-a-fort-
night brand of insurance is very largely due to the fact
that before a man (who is generally a woman, by the way)
gets fairly into the habit of paying up, something hap-
pens, the payments stop, and the policy is void. Then
the canvasser has to use up another large quantity of
tongue and boot-leather pursuing another policy. Though
the A.M.P. only started Industrial business on January
2, it lost during the year no less than 4426
of the 12,540 policies it issued. This is represented
as an astonishingly small lapse rate ; if some offices can
keep one-third of their policies they think they have done
well. It would be very pleasant to assume therefore that
the A.M.P. has established something like a record; but
those who tell that tale simply blink the facts. For more
than half the policies were issued during the latter half
of the year ; and there were no policies issued during the
previous year to lapse. If the average life of a lapsed policy
is six months, then the true lapse rate is double the rate
shown by the A.M.P.’s figures. In fact, since more of the
policies were issued in the second six months than in the
first six months, the real lapse rate is more than double.
Probably the A.M.P. will do better in the future ; but it
is unfortunate that practically the one thing that the
society has been congratulated upon as the result of the
first year’s Industrial work should have so large a hole
in it.
* * * *
Apropos these expense rates. The Citizens’
divides the expenses between Ordinary and Industrial
departments. The shareholders bound themselves not
to allow the cost (to the insurers) in the Ordinary depart-
ment to exceed 15 per cent. ; and the co. was supposed
at one time to have kept the cost down to below 15 per
cent, by piling up the expenses on to the Industrial de-
partment. Now, however, the Citizens’ has got the rate
down to 13’1 per cent, in the Ordinary department,
while the Industrial rate is no more than 39'6 per cent.
There thus appears to be no piling up on to the Industrial
department now. But instead of showing expenditure
items, as it does in the Industrial branch, the Citizens’ in
the Ordinary branch lumps everything and calls it “Net
expenses.” Why r “net”? What deductions have been
made from the total ? If there are none (as the manage-
ment alleges, and Thk Bulletin has no reason to doubt
it), then the sooner the “ net ” is dropped the better, so
that the figure may be accepted as the standard for other
offices to work up to—if they can command the same
energy and organisation.
The Ocean Accident and Guakantek Corfor-
ation. Ltd., an English office with an Australian busi-
ness : _
Reserves
(including
Reserve
Dividends paid Added for Un-
during year to Re- expired
Income. Profits. (less tax). serves. Risks).
£ £ £ £ £
1896 255,871 50,941 12$ p.c. = 12,500 38,441 201,415
1897 347,007 59,896 15 ~ „ 14,501 45,395 246,810
New Share Premiums 80,667 327,477
1898 736,947 213,547 15 „ „ 16,148 197,399 524,876
New Share Premiums 165 525,041
1899 748,733 139,472 15 ~ „ 19,429 120,043 645,084
1900 878,492 71,496 20 ~ „ 28,096 43,400 688,484
New Share Premiums 96,250 784,734
1901 1,120,359 20,367 20 „ „ 36,488 768,613
Loss.
1902 1,196,655 49,936 20 „ „ 32,424 689,263
Profit. _ „„
1903 1,130,516 48,747 20 ~ „ 32,415 16,332 705,685
1904 1,090,527 27,124 15 ~ „ 24,634 2,490 708,075
1905 1,113,675 50,490 15 ~ „ 24,554 25,936 734,011
The figures of this great guarantee, employers’ liability
and accident co. are just now of more than average Aus-
tralian interest and value on account of the recent rush
in these parts to get into the same business. Much the
same rush has occurred in England, too. The Ocean and
one or two others having shown that there was a lot of
money in it when once you had learned how to dodge the
bad lines, many of the fire offices, having already the
necessary equipment and organisation, began to issue
accident and guarantee polices. While they kept out of
the Ocean’s field the Ocean kept out of theirs ; but now,
with guarantee and accident profits cut down on account
of the keener competition, the Ocean is driven to use its
organisation to get in fire business also. Apparently,
however, it doesn’t yet propose to take up the new
branch in Australia. The profits are creeping back to the
old rate; this is claimed to be the result of selec-
tion, and that again is the result of pretty severe
experience ; it is mentioned that in the last two years
the co. has put aside nearly 3000 proposals, covering
wage-rolls amounting to £24,000,000, because the
rates were not good enough to coyer the risks.
This seems to dispose of the idea that accident insurance
and workmen’s compensation premiums are universally
extravagant. The more likely fact is that some em-
ployers never dreamed of the amount of battery their
workmen had to put up with until they bounced against
the hard figures of the actuary. The fact that in 1902
the Ocean made a loss of £49,936 (the English Act was new
then) shows that even the actuary under-estimated the
amount.
• * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney):—
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1896.. £6854 10 p.c. =£3200 £769 £2885 £10,983
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 1781 12,764
1897.. 6123 i 0 „ „ 3295 1000 1828 14,592
1898.. 4916 8$ „ ~ 2785 2131 16,723
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 512 17,235
1899.. 4235 7 „ „ 2325 1910 19,146
Forfeited Capital Carried to Reserves 16 19,161
1900.. 4392 7 „ „ 2339 2053 21,214
1901.. 4911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902.. 5261 7 „ ~ 2537 2724 26,401
1903.. 6900 7£ „ „ 2762 3138 29,539
1904.. 6591 9 „ „ 3355 3236 32,775
1905.. 7639 10 ~ „ 3792 3847 36,622
April,
1906.. 3634 10 ~ „ 1897 1737 38,359
At the end of 1904 this co. had freehold properties valued
at £37,431, and £61,553 was owing by way of purchasers’
balances. At April 30,1906, the freeholds had been reduced
to £23,183; the balances were £77,112. SO the co. had
laid hold of the recent little demand for land to sell, not
to buy ; and that, though so obviously the sensible thing
for a land co. to do, does not seem to be the thing that it
is always willing to do. The policy of this co. therefore
entitles it to further respect ; and a co. whose accounts
are presented so clearly as this one’s is entitled to favor-
able consideration to begin with. The co. on October
31st, 1904, owed £28,463, mostly deposits ; the debt has
now been reduced to £22,6l9—and that is a movement
the right way. Dealing in an erratic article like land,
which few people buy except when other people are buy-
ing, the co. carries considerable risks along with its
£77,112 of “ borrowers’ and purchasers’ balances”; but it
is building up a nice reserve fund, and it is paying off its
debt to the public ; and if it comes to grief after that it
will not deserve to.
• * * •
The Broken Hill Junction Mining Co.’s dis-
tressful history for the past few years :
Written off for
Loss. Depreciation. Deficit.
Sept., 1902 £13,408
Mar., 1903 .. £2740 £1766 17,914
Sept., 1903 .. 3904 1686 23,504
Mar., 1904 .. 1910 1600 27,014
Sept., 1904 .. 1858 1520 30,392
Mar., 1905 .. 3708 1381 35,481
Sept., 1905 .. 2468 1303 39,252
Mar., 1906 .. 6802 1249 47,303
It looks shockingly cruel to reckon up a mining co.’s
affairs on this cold basis of financial results, mining co.’s
being supposed to stand on a different footing from other
concerns —which mostly means that they are regarded as
counters in a gamble, and that you hope to pass them on
to somebody else at a profit; and the somebody else—
well, he is somebody else, and the matter is his funeral.
During these last three years, when metals have been rising
steadily, the co. has lost £20,650 in hard cash, and has
written off £8739 more for depreciation of plant. Cer-
tainly, so far as the last half-year of all is concerned,
though the loss appears to be the heaviest in the period,
£2870 has been spent on prospecting and development
and charged to working account, and (up to March 31st)
£2261 was spent over the mine fire; so that the ordinary
loss is reduced to £1671. The £20,650 actual out-of-
pocket loss in the three years has been made good by
calls which have brought in £20,000 and by reducing the
surplus of liquid assets from £4631 to £3o99—the other
£2O or so is represented by calls paid in advance. The
one consolation available for shareholders is that during
this period no great quantity of ore has been rooted out
of the mine. On March 31st £15,000 of capital was un-
called ; and since then a third of that has been called up.
And for all this expenditure the Junction has so
little to show that it can hardly count for anything.
Two-thirds of the money has been frittered away. For
the £20,000 which has been spent (in addition to the pro-
ceeds of sales of ore and concentrates) in scratching a few
feet here and gouging a few feet there, and keeping up a
pretty expensive establishment all the time, the mine
could have been probed down to the 1000 ft. level; and,
considering the mine’s situation, there is absolutely no
other work at Broken Hill which so clearly calls for the
expenditure. With the workings in Heaven only knows
w'hat state, as the result of the fire and, later, of
water which was poured in to put the fire out, there is no
telling what the near future of either the mine or the co.
will be ; but at £50,000, the present market price (ss. per
200,000 th share), the block would be an enticing bargain
for an energetic co. with some capital behind it. Whether
under the present control shares are worth even ss. is
another matter—though it is a shocking reflection on the
management if they are not (not the mine management;
that is new, and not responsible). The sort of muddle
and unpreparedness that prevail may be reckoned up from
the fact that, when the fire broke out in the mine, there
was not only not enough water to turn on to the out-
break—it was a couple of hours before there was enough
for a drink for the fire-brigade men.
* * * *
The flukey strike that was lately made on the
top levels in Block 13, the disappointing end of the B.H.
Prop., has been opening out very well. They are work-
ing it six sets (about 50ft.) wide, with no sign of either
wall. Proving by stoping is necessarily slow work, and
so it is intended to drive through it to see what the find x
really is. Going towards Block 14 the stope carries a
strong breast of heavy sulphides; and, as the present
workings in Block 13 are not far from theboundary.it
looks well for Block 14’s chances—and it wants chances
badly. Nothing has been heard yet of Block 14 sending'
out a prospecting drive in this direction. Probably it is
a matter of cost. But prospect driving on Broken Hill is
pretty well a thing of the past; the diamond drill is used
to try new ground—it is cheaper and quicker.


Three Friends
ƒd
The Best
Tobacco
on
Earth.
376 George St., Sydney
28 Hunter St., Sydney
177 Oxford St., Sydney
'Urn
A. A. MARKS, Sole Agent.
“M.C.: Some people are disappointed because
the Broken Hill Prop, did not increase its dividend.
Here is a Way of looking' at the matter. Divide output
of ore (estimated at 48,000 tons per month) by 960,0 t 0
(shares). That gives lcwt. —or 12cwt. per share for the
year. So the B.H. Prop, is paying dividends at the rate
of 6s. a year out of profit made on 12cwt. of ore ; and that
is equivalent to 10s. per ton of crude ore handled. To
increase quarterly dividends to 2s. 3d. (9s. a year), the
B.H. Prop, would have to distribute at the rate of 15s.
per ton on its output of crudes ; and the profits, including
money made out of zinc, do not amount to that. The
profit*on zinc tailings is merged into the general profits.
The amount is a dark mystery. If only 4s. per ton net
profit can be made on the immense tonnage handled, the
co. should pay an extra Is. dividend on the year’s work.
Dividends that equal 10s. per ton of crudes treated are
exceptionally big for Broken Hill; so one naturally looks
for some increased profits to maintain them. I suggest
that B.H. Prop, follow some American lead co.’s, and
state cost of laying down a ton of soft lead (after charg-
ing for by-products) at port of shipment. A sum equal
to from £7 to £8 per ton on B.H. Prop.’s lead output
would be required to pay dividends of 10s. per annum.
* * * *
A new item is beginning to turn up in
Broken Hill mining cos.’ balance-sheets —“ Royalty to
N.S.W. Government.” Block 10 directors explain
matters: “ The amount set apart for royalty is a new tax
which came into force on the renewal of the co.’s leases,
and represents 1 per cent, on the net profit for nine
months ending September 30 last.” The original Broken
Hill leases, mostly for 21 years, lately expired. A few
years back, after the bitterness of the great strike and
when Labor became a force in politics, some of the cos.
began to doubt whether they would ever get their leases
renewed. If they didn’t actually suggest this royalty,
they jumped at the chance of a quiet renewal on those
terms, and used all their influence to get the Bill through.
And now Oarruthers is calmly collaring the royalty, along
with the proceeds of land-sales, to make a “surplus” with.
* * • *
“Bromide” sends a mournful note about a
mine of many bumps:—The Sulphide Corporation’s
Central mine, Broken Hill, is slowly but surely settling,
and one of these days it will go with a rush down to the
700 ft. level. For several years creeps have occurred
frequently. The management used to try to think only
a small section was moving, but now it admits that all
these creeps are connected. The present policy of rush-
ing into the top levels between creeps and gouging out all
the ore they can looks suicidal, as the mine, from the 700 ft.
up, is rotten and bound to “come,” sooner or later. The
pillars left on the top levels permit of a gradual settle-
ment, and prevent the moving ground coming with a run
and closing the bottom levels ; but, instead of leaving
them there, they persist in stoping these pillars at every
chance they get, and the consequence will be a big
smash from surface down. Let’s hope there won’t be a
shift of men in at the time. The safest plan, both for
mine and men, is to go down a couple of levels and let
the top settle gradually. After it has settled, it will
probably be found that many of these pillars can be
got with safety.
* • • •
When Reid, Longworth, and Co. put their
Great Cobar and other properties under offer to J. Bull,
and £25,000 was paid to prove that business was meant,
Nymagee was not included. Nymagee is, however, be-
lieved to be under option to another Bull crowd, which
probably accounts for the jump in North Nymagee shares
from 9d. to Is. 6d. Still, latter show, although within a
stone’s throw or so of Nymagee’s workings, hasn’t done
anything except mop up calls for the past few years ; and
the greatest effort made up to time of writing has been
to dispatch 100 tons of allegedly 7£ per cent, ore to Nyma-
gee works. North Nymagee may be all right as a gamble,
but it has yet to prove itself a mine.
* * • •
Cobar (N.S.W.), which has made a new name
lor itself lately through the biggest copper deal in Aus-
tralia, has always been notorious for its spurts of energy.
Lately it has begun to realise that the place to deposit its
surplus pluck and cash is at the bottom of the hole where
the disgusted fossicker dropped his pick some score of
years ago. Almost in every instance lately “ a little bit
deeper ” has given more than encouragement to go on.
Perhaps the best and luckiest strike thus far has been in
the Budgery. Tried originally for gold, copper came in
at 128 ft., and lower down the body widens out (full size at
present unknown), and consists of 12 per cent, ore,
showing azurite and green carbonates. Budgery is
midway between Nyngan and Cobar, and is held in 100
shares of £l5 each. Adjoining claim, South Budgery, of
80 acres, is held jointly by W. Matchett, owner of Bud-
gery station, and a Sydney broker.
The C.S.A., Cobar, is now bagging 300 tons of
ore, as per contract with Cockle Creek smelters. If
supervising manager Blakemore’s estimates are anything
like correct, this parcel should net about £4 per ton for
the co. Notwithstanding the diamond-drill results, there
are more parcels of Cockle Creek ore yet to come out of
the C.S.A.
* * * •
Among the C.S.A. bunch, Cobar (N.S.W.), and
outside the C.S.A. itself and Gardner’s (about which
little is known), there isn’t any development so far to
justify the hope that the continuation of C.S.A. lode has
been located, or is even close at hand. Operations on
Block 10, C.S.A. North, and Central, under Manager John
Gudgeon, consist principally of costeening. OntheO.S.A.
South, which apparently is looking for a parallel lode,
sinking has been continued to 200 ft. without favorable
result. The South is doing a lot of genuine work, and its
shareholders are plucky.
* * * *
Local Wyalong (N.S.W.) opinion that Home-
ward Bound owners had developed the sleeping sickness
seems to be wrong, judging by the energy of the Sydney
office (the present co. was formed in 1905, and its sign-
post was hung out in Pitt-street). Decision to erect
machinery was arrived at in March, and, unless some-
thing out of the way happens, the plant ought to be up
in six weeks from now. As soon as this is done, the shaft
to 200 ft. will be cut down from 6ft. x 3ft. to 9ft. x 3ft. 6in.,
and cages will be used. At present the shaft is being
sunk below the 200 ft., and lately the reef was cut in it.
The trial crushings from the old workings have gone—
firsts (7 tons), 4oz. 2dwt. ; seconds (2J tons), loz. lOdwt.
There are about 20 tons seconds at surface.
* • * *
Lilliput (Vic.) proprietors, who have been suck-
ing royalty for years from the Great Southern Consols,
Rutherglen, have found a friend in the Aegus mining
man, who wails as discordantly as the peacock at mid-
night because Minister McLeod has talked forfeiture.
Facts already given in The Bulletin show the Lilliput
to be one of the worst mining barnacles in the State.
According to the Argus’s own explanation, Lilliput
holders got £4 a share in dividends for a frac-
tional expenditure, said dividends being drawn from
a 2£ per cent, royalty on the gross value of the gold won
by the Great Southern Consols. Even sharebroker Mil-
lard’s “losses,”of which much has been said, don’t look
bs 1. A£4 return on a £2 purchase would satisfy
mo. t men. The Argus talks of Minister McLeods
forfeiture of the Lilliput’s lease as meaning the
tearing up of agreements honorably entered into.
This is just the sort of argument that is * fl '°™
Ebenezer Cohen when the Court gives the victim of usury
999 years in which to pay his debt. Royalty never did a
hand’s turn of good for mining. At the best it is as mean
and miserable a way of getting wealth as that of tne
sweater. McLeod has been the first Minister to see this, and
so out has come his claymore. Argus or no Argus, ne
will surely not find a man there to say him ’ Nay should
he be forced to seek authority in Parliament to blot out
every royalty agreement in the State. For he hasn t
finished yet. There are two or three other blood-sucking
royalty holders in the Rutherglen district that are now
shivering in anticipation of the “ tearing up of their
agreements”; and, when it is done, mining will t>e
infinitely the better for it.
* * * *
What treasures Walhalla (Vic.) has in the two
Long Tunnel mines ! The one is over the two-million
mark with its output, and the other over the million.
Long Tunnel divs. aggregate £1,300,000, and Extended
reach £700,000. They are both working dowm to 2500 ft.,
and yet their last month’s output averages well above the
oz., Long Tunnel figures being 2300 tons for 26200 z., and
Extended’s 1270 tons for 16270 z. While the two are
racing pretty level in yields, it cannot be said that they
are running on parallel lines in other matters. Extended
throws open its doors to everyone; Long Tunnel only
half opens them. Long Tunnel cleans up once a month ;
Extended cleans up weekly. Long Tunnel piles up
amalgam till the final week ; Extended won’t allow any
to accumulate. Result, very little Stock Exchange
dealing in Extendeds ; tons of it in Long Tunnels. Rowe
and Peter Finlayson, the respective chairmen, are very
similar in disposition ; but the two strong men behind
them —A. Harvey (ex-Block 10) and Bob M'Leod (ex-
Australian 11)—are not of the same mould, nor are the
legal managers ; and that may account for a lot of the
difference in the way the co.’s are run.
* * » *
Agh Symes, father and son, having been intro-
duced to a mining jade called Eliza Hill at East Metcalfe,
arestill paying attention to her; but the lady continuescoy.
Mine was first worked in the sixties, and was unearthed
by C. E. Nicholas after he left Lyell Blocks, 18 months
back. There was some legend of ounce gold being
left by the old miners, but their workmanship is
shown by the fact that 900 tons crushed by the
S resent company only went about 2Jdwt. to the ton.
icholas, judging from his report dated February 1, must
have thought that ioz. stone was to be got, for he
talked about divs. coming when the property was further
developed. Divs., however, have had to wait on call-
paying, and call-paying had led to forfeiture of shares, and
forfeiture has brought on reconstruction. The Symes are
the financial men of the crowd, but their miningluck (save
when piloted by such skippers as Baillieu or the Robinson
family) has never led to much success. Geologist Dunn
is the rock that the co. relies on to-day. It isn’t quite
clear why, but probably Dunn has said that another
saddle is to be found by sinking. Anyway, there is not
so much that looks attractive about Eliza Hill as to justify
the public in following David Syme in mining, whatever
they may do in politics.
* * * *
“ A.8.C.”: Note that the Loddon Valley Co.,
Moolort (Vic.), has again reconstructed and watered the
already large share register. The same old reason —
“ Owing to the satisfactory state of the water pressure,”
etc., etc., and Mr. Lindgren (title in large letters) says
“ the profits will be £1,700,000,” and it is a pity to let
such a fine property die. Isn’t it time the farce was
ended ? The truth is, the Loddon Valley Co. has never
reached the stage referred to ; and Mr. Lindgren never
said the property would return £1,700,000 profit. His
statement was an illustration. 8., M. &Co. is understood
to be very particular about mine sampling. Now let the
firm sample Lindgren’s report, and produce, if it can,
this specific valuation.
* * * *
There is not much need to worry over Mills’
United, Charters Towers (Q.). For the past 12 months
earnest and consistent development has been carried out,
on an average of 4ft. of mineral stone, that has so far
averaged £3 14s. per ton. Manager MacLeod, of the
Brilliant Extended, introduced to the Towers the plan of
giving reserves in cubic feet; Mills’ goes one better with
an estimate of the tonnage of stone actually blocked out.
This is something quite new for the field, and, although
not complete, is a big dose for the Towers to swallow at
one gulp. Sampling will no doubt eventually arrive.
Taking the reserves (125,000 tons) at the value of the last
six months’ output (£3 2s. per ton) and costs at 38s. 5d.,
there should be a profit of 235. per ton available for distri-
bution in dividends. Mining costs got away with 215.,
crushing took 10s., and cyaniding 7s. When the mine is
in full swing the value of the output should increase,
possibly by 7s. 6d. per ton, and costs should decrease, as
the bulk of the stone crushed lately has been won from
development, and consequently has been none too clean.
The directors consider that a quarterly dividend of Is. a
share (£16,000) will be a sufficient tax upon the finances
until more stone is in reserve. The reef between Nos. 7
and 8 still continues to provide the show places. No. 6
east is out 230 ft. past the dyke, and carries up to 4ft. 6in.
of stone; the boundary is 410 ft. away. No. 7is out 1122 ft.
from the underlie, showing 4ft. of stone ; this level has
270 ft. to go to the Brilliant Freehold’s boundary. No. 8
has 210 ft. to go to the same place. No. 10 has 4ft. of
stone in the end. A footwall crosscut is going in from
No. 7 to test a small vein ; this is in 111 ft., and at 140 ft.
the footwall section of the reef should be met. Output
for the term was 17,137 tons for 62000 z., worth £21,770.
Concentrates and residues brought the total value to
£53,530.
m * * *
Money necessary to re-open Peak Downs
copper mine (Q.) is said to have all been put up in Bris-
bane, and work is to begin “ almost at once.” A bar-
racker for the old mine writes:—“ The slag dumps esti-
mated at over 100,000 tons will be of great value in
treating the large bodies of valuable ore left by the old
co. It is not a shallow mine that is ahead of the co. ; at
the 240 ft. level there is a lode carrying from 8 to 12 per
cent, copper. At all the higher levels, bodies showing up
to 12 per cent, of copper have been left untouched by thp
old co. as not payable, as it had to draw the stuff 280
miles to port. The lode can be traced for a mile and half.
Altogether, I believe the Peak Downs Co. can work profit-
ably with copper at a price that would shut up most
mines, for it has a coal mine of its own, limestone and
fireclay, and is nowadays only three miles from the rail-
way."
# * p P
Orlassford Creek (Q.), the copper concern in
which G. O. Willcocks and his following hold the biggest
interest, has now had its blast furnace going for three
weeks ; and, in spite of satisfying reports about the run,
metallurgist Gibb has struck difficulties in the treatment
—difficulties that turned up even in the first 24 hours.
The same people own Mt. Hector, where an old blast
furnace is to be re-erected. The whole equipment of these
properties is pretty antiquated. Glassford Creek itself is
worked mainly by open-cut, whose size is disappointing,
and there is some complaint about the batter ; also about
the over-officering of the concern. Probably that
accounts for the alleged difficulty of getting men.
During the past three months the reverbs, (there are two
of them, but one has now been closed down) treated
817 tons of ore for 50‘7 tons copper, 16130 z. silver, and
118 oz. gold—a very fine return if it could be kept up ; but
it can’t be. Quite a different grade of ore will be treated
if the new road answers ; it has been built (with a Rail-
way Department subsidy) from the mine to Miriam Vale,
and is about 40 miles long. G. O. Willcocks ought to
know as much about this sort of thing as anybody, yet
there are doubts whether the grades are not too severe
and the turns too sharp to allow the new road to be
generally used. Miriam Vale, it might be added, is a
station on the Gladstone-Bundaberg line ; and Glassford
Creek is up a wild gorge running back from it. The old
road, vile enough at the best of times, is from Gladstone,
about 75 miles. Besides Glassford Creek and Mt. Hector,
Mt. Cannindah is held in the same interests. A
few tons of hand-picked ore have been sent away,
but Mt. Cannindah is essentially a milling proposition,
and a plant is going up now, to be followed, of course, by
reverbs. About 2000 tons of ore await treatment; most
of this stuff has been picked over, yet these seconds
will probably average about 6or 7 per cent. There, is a
- big lode, rather patchy; but it has to be remembered
that all explorations have so far been shallow. There are
some workings at 120 ft.; the lode at that depth is
much more mixed than at 70ft., where the main workings
are. It looks probable, if the metal market holds, that
these three properties will be amalgamated and offered to
J. Bull.
* # * *
Townsville (N.Q.) is still of opinion that it
should have a customs smelting works. One local paper
says :—“ Innumerable arguments can be added to show
that a smelter in Townsville can be conducted with pro-
fit. Labor is plentiful, and youthful labor which can be
largely utilised in smelting is abundant; and how much
more pleasurable to see a few dozen of our young men
engaged in this stable industry erected in our midst!”
Townsville will do well to carefully study a hundred and
one more important considerations than youthful labor
before it puts money into a customs smelter. Unless it
has its own mines to fall back upon, the smelter will have
a bad time.
* * • •
Reckoned (B. 3/5/’O6) that Mount
Morgan (Q.) can produce copper at £44 per ton, and to
get that result metal extraction is assumed to'be 3 per
cent, copper and 6dwt. gold, and mining and Smelting
costs from 255. to 275. Furnace concentration of 33 tons
of ore down to one ton of metal will bring up the gold
contents in a ton of blister copper to about £4O ; soil
this gold value is included, Mt. Morgan can produce fine
copper at very little over cost of electrolytic refining and
depreciation charges. But the fly in the treacle is that
costs are as yet somewhat uncertain, and the odd £ unit
of copper calculated to get in the slag is a suspiciously
small estimate of loss. When the extraction drops to two
units copper and 4dwt. gold (which it is fairly certain to
do some day), reckoning copper at £6O and gold at £4,
the value of extraction per ton would be £2. Even that
might be expected to leave a margin of profit. Value of
present estimated extraction is £3 12s. ; so things look
solid.
* • * «
One of those mosquito deals which cross the
path of big speculators is being evolved in Melbourne.
It is in connection with Crown Lyell, over which Baillieu
not long since got an option for a tenner. Murray
Jones, connected with the Tasman and Crown Lyell float,
is to the fore again. People for whom he is acting are be-
lieved to be the outside jobbers in London who have made
the present price of Lyell Blocks possible, and probably
Tom Luxton and little Marks are in it too. Proposed
terms: An option for three months ; co. to be floated
with 250,000 shares of ss. each, 66,000 shares fully paid to
go to holders of scrip in present co., balance to pro-
moters ; and £15,000 to be put to credit of new co. This
works out at about 2s. a share, save for an odd 4000
shares which may be ear-marked for some pur-
pose best known to the promoters. As the Crown
Lyell claim has only one value, that of a position
property, there is no special reason why it should not
go to J. Bull like its cousin, the Tasman and Crown
Extended. Still it ought to go with a full exposition of
the facts. All the sinking and crosscutting have failed to
expose so much as even a ton of ore that will pay under
the Mt. Lyell smelting tariff, even though copper be £BO
per ton. The North Lyell shoot of ore is too far distant
from the Crown to give hope that it will dip into it, and,
if it did, without the iron flux of the Blow, it would be of
no value to anyone except the big co. So there are just
two good reasons why the show should be left alone
(1) No ore of any profitable worth has been proved, in
spite of much work. (2) No profitable market is avail-
able for such ore as may possibly be found.
t • • • .
A neglected factor in connection with Mt.
Lyell (Tas.) accounts is the sale of super-phosphates from
the works at Yarraville(Vic.), whose product got on to the
market late last year. The directors say that the business
is “ regarded as satisfactory.” The output has “found a
ready sale,” “ the demand is greater than the capacity of
the works ’’(which, after allowing for depreciation, stand
at £46,164), and “ in view of the growing demand for fer-
tilisers throughout the Commonwealth, the directors feel
justified in duplicating the entire plant.” But the work-
ing account lumps things in this manner—“ Proceeds of
blister copper and super-phosphates, £456,695.” Moonta
and Wallaroo Co. also dodges details as to the cost of pro-
ducing “ super ” by the simple process of turning over
its acid to a subsidiary co.—alleged to consist mostly of
John Darling. Meantime these works don’t seem to be
affecting the import of Japanese “ super,” which has
almost cut the European fertiliser out of the market. As
usual, N.S.W. is the great consumer of the foreign dirt.
S. Australia and Victoria give the Australian product the
preference.
$ * * 0
North Mt. Farrell (Tas. ), which announced its
first dividend six months ago, is in a position to keep up
a quarterly 3d. or 4d. a share (3d. means £1000; for, say,
a couple of years—unless something unexpected knocks
down the metal markets very flat. Profits for six months
to the end of April were £3209 ; and there is close up to
two years’ reserves, with excellent chances of in-
creasing them. The results are good considering
the size and remoteness of the mine (the output
of crudes is only about 10,000 tons a half-year), and
that the recovery is only 6'020z. silver and 6T7 per cent,
lead. Costs are, however, low ; including office expenses
and development (latter amounted to 4s. ljd. per ton last
half-year), the total expenses were only 16s. lfd. per ton.
Actual mining was done for 6s. 4ld. and milling for 3s.
7Jd. per ton. Only the most cheaply-worked of the
Broken Hill mines, favored with huge lodes, can beat
those figures. Of course, the lay of the ground helps
North Farrell. The mill is on the side of a steep hill, and
the feed floors are on a level with the bottom, or No. 3,
drive or tunnel, so that the mill is really under the work-
ings.
a # * #
The pretty profits made by the Fremantle
Smelter (W.A.) last year have been mentioned already—
likewise that they must have been pretty well all made
out of the Horseshoe. Horseshoe accounts throw some
light on the matter. The 15,687 tons smelted seemed to
have cost the co. something over £4 10s. per ton. The
smelting extraction was no doubt better than could have
been got on the mine; on the other hand, the smelter
makes deductions, which partly restores the balance. On
the mine the treatment would cost £1 per ton —total,
£15,687. At the smelter it seems to have cost about
£68,000. Now, who owns the smelter?
? * 9 *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) once more looks
like a good gamble. The whole treatment plant is being
dismantled from the old leases, and is being transferred
to the Goodenough, some four miles away. The reef on the
latter is from 3ft. to sft. wide, and, although low-grade,
is quite good enough to make the co. a success. Much
prejudice is ruling against the concern because “ Boulder”
Hamilton once had the show on option and threw it up.
But one must remember that Hamilton has a reputation
at stake, and, in 99 cases out of 100, it is safer to condemn
a gold show than to praise it. Manager Ferguson, of the
Queensland Menzies, is canny, too, and one isn’t usually
far wrong in following him.
• * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) directors in London
apparently had, and probably still have, very hazy ideas
about Ridgway’s new tailings process ; they announced
wildly that it was going to make Bs. per ton profit. The
stuff it will treat runs about 3dwt., worth say 12s. gross,
and a 60 per cent, extraction would mean just over 7s.
worth of metal recovered ; and from that costs have to
be taken. Manager Hamilton says half-a-crown profit ;
but it will probably go better than that.
• • • •
Victory United, Cuddingwarra (W.A.), has had
manager Merry’s second half-yearly report. First time of
speaking he was very gloomy ; this time—‘ ‘ I have a better
opinion of the mine than I had six months ago ; but it
can never be made a good paying concern unless vigor-
ous development work is carried on.” If the shareholders
will put up the money, Merry thinks they will get divs.
But Victory United shareholders have been fooled so
often that they will take a lot of persuading now. Six
months ago 3000 tons of reserves were estimated ; 2505
tons have been taken out, which, with a little from
cyanide, has reduced the profit and loss debit from
£11,427 to £11,284, showing a profit of £143; and 1200
tons were still available at the beginning of April. Co.
had then only £3OOO uncalled ; but it had also a surplus
of liquid assets of £3265. Co. is never likely to get
enough to make the risk of getting it worth while.
* * * *
The machinery of Mt. Cattlin, one of the
Phillips River (W.A.) shows purchased by Kaufman, has
started. Plant consists of Babcock boiler, winding winch
and air compressor. The rock drills will soon prove the
mine, as a vigorous policy of development is installed.
Mt. Benson, another Kaufman purchase, is being simi-
larly equipped.
* » * •
Frank .Merton —the ex-Sydney shop-assistant,
who went prospecting in Westralia, got Merton’s Reward,
made a pot out of it, and then (smartest thing of all) sold
out for a.big price to a very keen Moses crowd at the very
right moment—has been prospecting Egypt lately in the
grand manner, with a London-Westralian syndicate to keep
things going. According to his own cable, he has struck
three parallel reefs, over a mile long, and lumping them,
about 25ft. wide ; and the gold seems to average about
4oz. It’s a lot of gold to pack into one cable; but as Tub
Bulletin’s correspondent at Wady Halfah is busy just now
discovering new pyramids at BirelNabeth, Merton’s cable
will have to be thrown at the public unchecked.
» * * *
Spec. : At present know nothing ahswering
requirements... .Myrmid: No ; keep the policy going.
Auckland (M.L.) Stock Exchange got in some
good work, the other day, when .it refused to list. the
Waiotahi Extended, mainly on the ground that it isn’t
contiguous to the Waiotahi, and that the name is mis-
leading.
• * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin” : Broken Hill is threatened
with a firewood famine—though, of course, that won’t
affect the mines, which burn coal and coke exclu-
sively. Owing to the present depleted state of
the market, and the restrictions pertaining to the
gathering of dry timber, the indications are that supplies
will be lower and prices higher during the coming winter
than ever before. The sources of supply are scanty.
Recently the Government Forester stated that in a little
while the whole of the Broken Hill district for a radius of
40 or 50 miles will be exempted from the operation of fuel
licenses. It is said that some areas are being denuded of
green timber, hence the restrictions. Large quantities
of dry wood are available in the reserved areas. It is
argued that these reserves should be thrown open for the
gathering and carting of dry wood. It should be easy to
prevent the cutting of green timber and other infringe-
ments of the regulations, and it is hard to say what the
dead timber is being sedulously saved up for. No wonder
that so many of the household fires on the Barrier are no
better than “ blackfellows’ fires ” of a few miserable sticks.
# * W *
Aerial tramways or conveyors undoubtedly
afford the cheapest means of transport, especially when
they are worked under a system which is entirely
automatic. The largest manufacturers in the world in
this particular line are Adolf Bleichert and Co., of London,
represented in Australia by W. and J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne. Delivering ore automatically from the mine to
the mill over almost any distance at a cost of about one
penny per ton, is far ahead of all other means of transport.
Automatic systems are in vogue for the cheap discharge
of tailings. Automatic weighing and counting of loaded
cars is also assured under Blei chert’s system, thereby
nothing is left to assumption or imagination^*
Cobab. — For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
* * •
It is interesting to note that the “Hornsby”
patent safety oil engine has sustained its world-wide
reputation for reliability and economy. During the past
year hundreds of squatters, recognising their adaptability,
have been using them for their shearing and general
motive power, and as they are • specially suitable for
mining, electric lighting, pumping, etc., mine managers
have shown their appreciation by installing them on some
of the leading mines. The latest type of engine will run
at a cost of less than a farthing per brake horse power per
hour, and are manufactured by the well-known
“ Upright ” Water Tube Boiler firm R. Hornsby and Sons,
Ltd., Hay-street, Sydney and Spencer-street, Melbourne.*
* • * *
The Bankers’ Magazine (Loudon), September,
1904, writes re the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited:—“At the close of 1875 its funds
amounted to £2864, and twenty-eight years thereafter on
December 31, 1903, we find them increased a hundred-,
fold to £2,814,795. Roughly speaking, every year, on the
average, has seen £lOO,OOO added to the funds.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* • • •
Two sets of improved plunger pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the “keystone”
shaft of the Loddon Valley Goldfields (Victoria) to the
order of Bewick, Moreing and Co. Each set will consist
of two lifts of 250 feet, the total lift being 500 feet. The
plungers are 26in. in diameter and 10ft. stroke and the
discharge from the two sets will be 6,000,000 gallons per
day. The valve boxes are made in separate pieces instead
of forming part of one H piece, and the valves are of the
compound flap type. The total weight of the two sets of
pumps is 150 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company has this work ip hand. This company has
constructed and erected most of the big volume deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
George D. Meudell, Money and Mining Broker,
A.M.P. Building, Bendigo (formerly of Stock Exchange of
Melbourne).*
* * * f
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of time, Zinc Shavings,.
Mabor, and all Mining apd Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* f * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of she late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99a Queen r
street, Melbourne. Commission business on)y.
Agents
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.* ■ . , ,
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.;
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline:
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all.
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* f * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
■*■ * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* « * *
Charters Towers. — Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
. ■ * • * *
.Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * » *
Then the Standard Oil Trust showed itself in
its true colors. It employed gangs of armed ruffians and
scoundrels to shoot down the workmen employed by the
independent oil men ; to tear up their pipe line, to batter
down their bridges with cannon. Pitched battles were
fought at river crossings, inch by inch, foot by foot, at
the point of the revolver and the muzzle of the rifle the
independent pipe-line was carried into New York city.
From “ On the Trail of the Trust," now on sale at Tub
Bulletin office.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
FISHING NETS,
FISHING TACKLE.
Send for our Superb Tackle Catalogue—lT'S FREE.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 & 411 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Aboriginalities.
“ J.F.” : That visual delusion which makes
you take sheep for cattle, and cattle for mam-
moths, is a common occurrence on the plains of
Riverina, which Mr. T. Bent is going to annex.
As one comes nearer to the delusion they appear
to diminish in size till the cattle are only sheep
again; they don’t come right with a pop or a
shock, but just crawl down to the level of every-
day life. Often have I viewed the little town of
Boohgal from a distance of some miles very early
on a fine morning, and admired its magnificent
proportions, its sky-scrapers, its wooden fences
climbing to the heavens, its infinite back yards,
and its stupendous boulevard with a dog 12ft.
high wandering up the same, and as I looked I
felt that I was an inhabitant of no mean city.
Yet I knew it was the same old Booligal, and
when I got there it was the same old Booligal.
ihese deceptions only occur when the sun is near
the horizon, and they are of varying intensity. I
have seen my humble income at a distance looking
like the wealth of Bill Rockefeller, or the even
wilder affluence of his brother John; but that
was something beyond the average in the mirage
line.
* * * *
“Wilbea”: Among the islands of the
Hebrides and Solomons civilisation has made
rapid strides. There is hardly to be found a buck
n 'gger that doesn t own his Snider or Martini;
many of the wealthier and more aristocratic
members of the community boast Winchesters of
the latest pattern. The Martini is a great
favorite. Fighting, consequently, is not very
healthy m these parts, and there is plenty of it.
Gun-running is a most profitable business, stock
never being left on one’s hands, and Snider cart-
ridges are good trade anywhere.
IN TOPHET.—FROGVILLE.
“Dave H. R.” : At the risk of being
taken for an advertising agent, let me hurriedly
suggest that that branding composition men-
tioned by “Moana” (B. 17/5/’O6) be made the
onlV legal means, until some other equally service-
able and painless method is discovered Con-
sidering the cost is not id, per head, there could
be no reasonable objection to this. Anything
almost, is preferable to the present savage method
of making an iron glowing hot and actually burn-
ing a brand into stock. I don’t belong to the
society w hich pursues disconsolate cats down the
street with cream, but my gorge rises at the habit
of assaulting living things with red-hot irons
* * * *
. There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it m your bath; use it generally
throughout the household if you want comfort No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
A RETIRING MAN.
MRS. CASSIDY (irritably): “Phwat th ’ divil do ye be jumpin' in an’ out o' bed iviry minute,
dishturbin' me slape, an' you wid that sickness on yez, too?"
MR. CASSIDY: "Go aisy, Kathleen. ' Tis followin' the docthor's insthructions Oi am. Sure,
didn't he ordther me to drink a glass av whisky before goin ’ to bed, an' am Oi not
goin' to bed iviry toime afther drinkin' that same?”
“L.R.”: Talking about death grips
(B. 29/3/’O6). A farm hand working on a Kabra
(Central Qeensland) selection used to walk four
miles to the Gracemere pub. every other week or
so, and get tight. Mostly he managed to find his
way home again all right, and be at his graft by
daylight. But one night he came to the farm
frantically catching a big handful of his trousers,
just above the knee. Inside his pants was a 4ft.
black snake, the head of which he had (with a
drunk’s luck) grabbed, together with a handful of
pants. They told us afterwards that he had
rolled out of the pub. gloriously drunk ; but when
he got to the house he was dead sober, white as a
sheet, and scared almost to death. - When we
took in the situation, one of us found a razor and
cut the piece,"snake’s head and all, right off. But
no persuasion could induce that man to relinquish
his death-grip. It seemed as if he just couldn’t
let go. One of the boys, therefore, put on a
pair of dogskin driving gloves, in case of accident,
and we. held the man while he forced open the
hand with a monkey wrench.
* * * *
The little speck known as King Island, on
the Tasmanian coast, has its Archimedean lever,
The Record, King Island, a fortnightly news-
paper. The
heading is the
only portion
printed. The
rest, six pages
of foolscap, is
stylographed,
and is much
the same in
appearance as
J ohn Pascoe
Fa wkner’s first
Melbourne
newspaper,
only J.P.F.’s
was all pen-
and-ink work.
The copy be-
fore the writer
is Yol. 1, No.
77, January 31,
1906, price 2d.
The advertise-
men t s an-
nounce seeds
for sale, also
dogs, ploughs,
barrow, bricks,
&c., and set
forth that the
King Island
Hotel “has
good accommodation, &c.” The leading article is
on the timber industry. The King Island Racing
Glub advertises a meeting for Easter. At the
police court a youth was charged with pilfering.
He got a month, but the sentence was suspended
under the First Offenders Act, provided he left
the island.
* * * m
“Quan”: Am not going to settle the
strongest smell question, lately raging in The 8.,
but reckon I met the longest odor in Australia, in
’96. It reached 14 miles, and was caused by dead
fish in the Tweed River, allegedly poisoned by
liquid refuse from a sugar-mill poured into that
stream. Was riding from Murwillumbah to
Cudgen one night. For nine miles the road ran
along the bank of the stench, and I rode the
greater part of that distance with a handkerchief
over mymouth and nostrils. This smell is more
or less in evidence during every cane-crushing
season, but ’96 was its most successful year—the
year when it won the long smell jump, so to speak.
“Dico ’ ; Strange indeed that “Elmore”
and his four mates had never seen or heard of a
snake in a rabbit trap (B. 17/5/’O6). Round here
(Lancefield, Yie.) I have often heard of the rep-
tiles being caught in this manner, and once
actually saw one in a trap, set at the mouth of a
burrow. And snakes are not very numerous here
either. A friend of mine, whose veracity I have
never heard assailed with impunity or any other
weapon, says that he saw two black snakes in a
trap brought into Kyneton and exhibited there.
Of course the owner of the trap may have put
them there; but there’s nothing wildly impossible
about the happening. A trap with the “plate”
tilted up a little would easily be sprung by the
weight of an ordinary snake. While on the trap
subject. Saw last week a large eagle swoop down
on a trapped rabbit, and, after a couple of tugs,
rise again with trap and bunny. The peg was
driven in fairly hard ground, too. After the
rabbit was wolfed on the branch of a dead gum
the bird thoughtfully dropped the trap where 1
could find it without much trouble. He was a
courteous eagle.
Silas Snell ” : There had been trouble
up at Foss’s hut for some weeks past, I knew, and
when I had met the poor man casually on the
road to the mine, he wore a worried look. His
was the old, familiar trouble, a wife. Mrs. Foss
was a small, hard, stout body, with inflated
nostiils and an energetic manner, while Foss was
perhaps the slowest going man I have ever
known. It took him a tremendous time to make
up his mind about a trifle, and consequently he
was quite a month making up his mind about
Gooty. However, he would appear to have
arrived at a decision at last. I saw he had
taken to a tent, which was pitched a little back
from the road, and surrounded with a rough
break-wind of boughs. Foss was frying a black-
fish on a shovel when I came upon him. “ Hello ”
I said,, “what’s the meaning of this?” “Oh
northin’,” he said, turning the fish. “On’y I
ain’t livin’ up there no more.” He gave his head
a slight lift towards the hut on the hill. “Left
home, have you? How’s that?” “It’s all on
account o’ the missus and Will Cooty,” he said,
slowly. “I don’ wanter make no row with
anyone, but if Mary likes t’ live with another man
I m blowed if I will.”
Arual : The Victorian Government’s
opinion is that cow is more important than kid.
I have been a bush kid-improver for 13 years, and
am getting the munificent salary of £136. Recently
22 cow-improvers were appointed at an annual
salary of £l5O, to be followed by two increments.
When I remember what important individuals
Strawberry and Spot and Brindle have become, I
regret that my parents were not gifted with fore-
sight, so that I might have been put to study cow
instead of kid. In some respects the animals are
similar. If you whack them you get less from
them ; if you feed them you get more. I guess
111 begin work in a cowyard to gain experience,
and with my present theoretical knowledge of agri-
culture (which is somewhat considerable) I shall
easily become a dairy inspector; and as my ambi-
tion died long ago, I shall live happily on £l5O or
£2OO a year. A sixth part of the study demanded
of a teacher will be sufficient to assure me this. I
have figured the matter out in this manner : If it
takes nine years to rise from a salary of £lOO to
one of £136, how long will it take to rise to £200?
Answer, 16 years or thereabouts. In the cow busi-
ness I can do it in a fourth of the time. And then
the cow may revive my ambition (which is dead,
of course, but no matter), and I shall perhaps rise
on the backs of the cows to £5OO a year. Even
now, though I never personally wrestled with
otrawberry or Brindle, I possess vast experience
of cow. When kids are late for school their ex-
cuseis “milking cow.” Notes from cocky say:
Plese let Jinnie out hurly she have to get in
cow. I sometimes have to object to cocky’s
cow in my garden. My garden is more fer-
tile as a result of cow. My neighbors discourse
learnedly on cow. My school smells of cow.
1 sweep 1001 b. of cow-manure out of the school
building each evening. This is an advantage,
certainly, for it enables me to grow fine cabbages:
and the method of cartage (on the kiddies’ clod-
hoppers) is, though primitive, absolutely costless.
1 shall inform The Bulletin when my newly-
formed plans have begun to bear fruit. What
ecstasy shall be mine! Never before in my
wildest dreams did I hope to be promoted from
supervisor of kids—the cows’ slaves —to inspector
°[ cows—the kids’ bosses. Just think of it! I
shall be a boss over bosses.
* * * *
** ”'■ Did someone say it was too cold
for bird-life in and around Katoomba ? If Igo
to my back-door now, I can see the snow lying
thick on Kosciusko, and this morning every drop
of water in the humpy was frozen over, and some
flowers in a glass stood in solid ice. This not-
withstanding that a fire smouldered all night.
And yet sleep is an impossibility after day-
break, and all because of the birds. Magpies
gather on the verandah and yell at the meat safe
(one sings the first part of “Rory O’More” very
creditably, after much listening to the local
soprano); red-breasts chirp on every paling; and
tom-tits flit thickly in the frost-bitten garden.
It I stroll across the paddocks, bronzewings will
rise m a cloud from the briars along the guliies,
and quails whirr up from the tussocks. Soldier-
birds sound the alarm, and leather-heads, parrots,
sparrow-hawks, white cockatoos, pee-wees and
willy-wagtails scream in concert. Over on the
big pond wood-ducks and plover take their
morning dip, and away in the thicket under
Black Jack mountain I have seen the lyre-birds
dancing Over my head, as I write, is a swallow’s
nest, built cosily in a rabbit-skin; and with the
night comes the curlew’s dismal cry. Add to this
a dozen or so birds I can’t think of just now, and
you 11 see cold doesn’t affect bird-life very much—
not under the shadow of Kosciusko, anyhow.
W. MOLONEY, the oldest mailman in N.S.W.
Fifty years on the road, Bathurst to Hill End.
Photo, by Beavis, Bathurst.
ssssmsi zss s* sftati
THAT MAN FROM CAMOOWEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now I’m troubled much in mind, there’s a man I’d like to
find,
For I often wondered did I really see
That old-time droving mate—l think the hour was late,
And disarranged his hat and puggaree.
But methluks I said “ You here !’’ and he answered
“ Avabeer ! ”
And wrung my willing hand with ready zeal,
And the old, old days came back, and the nights upon the
track,
As he said “ I’ve just come down from Camooweal.”
Bid he howl with old-time mirth ? “ Are the others on
the earth,”
Did I ask, “or have they tottered o’er the brink?”
Did he lead me to the bar, saying, “ Aint sure where
they are,
But it’s up to me and you to avadrink ?”
Did I ask of reckless Jack, the lightest heart out-back ?
(Though years have lapsed, his deeds are met with yet.)
Did he say “ I hear he’s gone, where the drought is always
on,
But say, pi’ chap, lessavanotherwet.”
“And what of Lanky Steve? Does he your absence
grieve ?
Or does he close upon your footsteps haste ? ”
Did he say “ It’s mighty odd if he does, for Steve’s in
quod
Over horses. Still, lessavanothertaste.”
Did I talk of storm and strife, and the roving droving life
(I often tax my memory in vain)
And speak of days gone by, till he stopped me with a sigh
“Ah well! We’d better fillemupagain I”
Was that banging hostel door, just an echo, nothing
more ?
A phantasm that man from Camooweal ?
I know the morning thirst, the swollen head I nursed,
And the shortage in my cash were very real.
N.S.W.
NULLA.
“OUGH!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(A fonetic fansy , dedicated to Androo Karnegee, the
millionaire spelling reformer.)
The baker-man was kneading dough
And whistling softly, sweet and lough.
Yet ever and anon he’d cough
As though his head were coming ough 1
“My word !” said he, “ but this is rough ;
This flour is simply awful stough ! ”
He punched and thumped it through and through,
As all good bakers always dough !
“ I’d sooner drive,” said he, “ a plough
Than be a baker, anyhough ! ”
Thus spake the baker kneading dough ;
But don’t let on I told you sough !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


By Royal
Warrant to
H.M.
King Edward VIL
eat salt
Then yvny not ohooee the
only one—
By Royal
Appointment to
H.R-H.The
Prince ofWal.es.
OEREBOS
SALT,
which both seasons and strengthens the Food,
Wholesale Agents :-Harrison & Attwood, Sydney _
Original
We are
noted for
WEDDING
PRESENTS
We can’t help it, as original designs pour in on us from all lands
Large Cash Buyers are naturally offered every Novelty that
comes out.
The commonplace has no charm for our buyers.
Our stock is replete with every novelty that excellence of quality
justifies us in selling.
Fruit Stand, Heavy Electro-plate, without
Tube, 27/6
Original
Wedding
Presents
m
m
at
40/
Fruit Stand,
Heavy
Electro-
plate,
with
Centre
Tube,
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Straight Out”: “ Musselburgh ” (B.
26/4/’ofi) is wrong in attributing “San’s” failure
to capture his snake either to the sight of the
waddy or to the presence of “ San.” I have lured
many snakes to their death by means of music,
and I know. The sight of gun, waddy or other
weapon does not scare the foolish and attenuated
reptile a bit. Snakes not only like to hear the
music, but also to see the instrument and the
player ; and while listening and inspecting they
appear to be conscious of nothing else. One re-
cent case : About three months ago I was out
West, and saw a black snake crawl under the
house. I produced my yiolin and struck up an
encouraging tune, while the old man stood
ready with the spade. Presently an eye and a
nose —not enough snake to be seriously attacked
with an agricultural implement—showed at a
crack between two flooring boards, but, though I
played on, no more of him appeared. I stopped
playing, and the eye and nose vanished. 1 told
the old man, who was beginning to doubt me,
that snakes liked to see the instrument and
player, and were quite satisfied when they could
do so, and then we laid a deep, deep scheme,
worthy of Caesar Borgia. I played again. Up
came the nose and eye. The old man held the
spade so as to conceal my noble personality from
the snake. Twelve inches of spare snake rose
from the crack and looked admiringly at me over
the spade. Then the spade was viciously shoved
along the boards, and there was one-tlnrd of a
snake flying across the verandah and two-thirds
of a snake dropping on the earth below.
*» ♦ * *
“ Elmore ” : Coach horses doing regular
trips last much longer on a hilly or mountain
route than do those that are always on flat coun-
try. Among reasons advanced are purer air and
the fact that different muscles are used on the up
and down grade.
ALL THAT WAS LEFT OF THEM.
“ Is dat the patch yer mother sewed on, Jimmy ?”
“ Haw, yer darned fool, that’s the trousers."
The usual sheep’s-head-with-gold-in-the-
teeth story has just outcropped in Melbourne
A bgus But, in this case, contrary to many prece-
dents, in which the “gold ” has been found to be
tartar, due to the animal neglecting the use ot its
tooth-brush, experts have pronounced the metal
genuine, and careful inquiry has traced the sheep s
head back to pastures known to be auriferous.
Still, the yarn is growing rather wearisome.
** Caro ” writes about a bush-fire .
ceived a rre 8 8 p e ect b for h hfn? S
enveloped us-a lucky homestead-from fires miles aw }
At midnight the glare was so intense we couia see t
read on the verandah Kvery man was working at the
far-off flames, and each morning' we left at “v e >
miles drive, with food for the toiling fighters. A wea, isome
drive, with the smoke puffing in volumes in ■ oui r ftices
and the bewildered horses stubborn with fean A n
broke out on the hills that no one could staj and we
to the top of a stony ridge to watch the infer . * “
gauge its direction. Though high noon, the sky w
thunderous with smoke clouds, inky Uuk»and
was stifling. Black, with red gaping stretched
the hills behind, while a tidal wave of flame,, miles long,
shot roaring: down the gullies. A plain of hig g .
between two hills, and with a scream of utter frenzy, the
fire leapt upon it, like a Zulu impi of Haggard s tnne and
wiped it out. The wind shifting dangerously, the rest of
that ride was heat and smoke. When you haveheard
scream of fire and the roar of its tread, you will know
W Once"—Vhave "put this picture away for the winter of
my life—a fire swept down at midnight on the and
flats above a bend of the Lachlan. Red, golden, ruby-
colored, champagne-hued, blood-tinted,
in deep pools between the reeds, bending in the fierce light
as wands of brass. Here and there some gnarled tree
crouched dwarf-wise, holding out black, imploring amis
towards the racing fire, or bent in terror away. Above
the deeper roar of the main fire rose the shrill screams of
the flames as they fell upon the bed of dry at
the swamp’s edge, and then in great leaps spran„ out
across the higoon. Soon the glowing, t,nte d P°°‘ s ere “
chaos of smouldering reeds, and dense woolly volumes of
smoke belched across the swamp. Then v\as waged a
great battle between the fire that had swept for scores of
devastating miles and the long lagoon, guarding
the richest bends. Leap after leap the fire b ut
only to be pulled down and smothered. . At; dawn we
could not see two paces in front of us, but the fire was
down and wallowing in fitful gusts of flame. But the pity
of it, the agony, the tragedy, the heart-break, and the
grandeur—what can the city know, drinking iced soda
beneath the whirling fans 1
* * * *
“ Paul Cupid ” : Nolan’s boy was carrying
a small pig borne in a bag from Ryan s. Just
where the tracks crossed he fell m with Smith s
boy, also carrying a bag. ‘‘What yer gotrin the
bag, Jimmy-ft pig?” “No, a dawg answered
Jimmy. “Think ’e muster gone mad. Me an
Dicky was brandin’ ’im, an’ he guv Dicky an
almighty bite. Mother says she thinks e s mad,
an’ ud ’ave t’ be drownded. Comin down t the
crick?” Nolan’s boy assented. “Oh! look at
th’ ole bear,” broke in Jimmy, as he dropped his
bag to pursue a bear that was clumsily making tor
a sapling. Nolan’s boy dropped his bag and
joined in the chase. After half an hour s climbing
and pelting, they lost the bear. Jimmy took up
the bag, and together they heaved it into the
creek, and watched while it tumbled and rolled,
and rose and sank till it finally disappeared.
Nolan’s boy then shouldered his bag and went
whistling home. “ Hold on now till I get a grip
of him,” said Nolan, who had been waiting with
everything ready to kill the sucker. He put is
hand in the bag, and the next moment sprang up
to the rafters with the ejaculation, Oh ! h—l,
I’m bit.” His offspring let the mouth of the
bag go in his terror. Smith’s dog sprang out and
Nolan’s two dogs pursued him till they all dis-
appeared in a cloud of dust. Nolan wasn t a bit
vexed, nor did he use any bad language, and his
boy had no reason for anxiously rubbing the seat
of his trousers, but he rubbed it all the same.
• * * *
“The Moocher” : -Don't tell me Chows
are curs ! Bill and I were making across Old
Man Plain, a while ago, and come
upon a Chow hawker at midday camp
beside a well. Now, Bill and I were
tobacco-famished, and we decided to
“tap” that Chow for a plug. Bill
can cadge like a gentleman, and 1 11
back him against any parson in the
State, but he got nothing out of the
Chow. He left off coaxing, and tried
intimidation. The Chow sat stolidly.
We lost all patience, and I distracted
John’s attention by knocking his hat
off, pulling his pig-tail, etc., while
Bill went to have a look through the
cart. At last I exasperated John by
upsetting my billy of hot tea over his
foot. He leapt with a yell, “My
oath, I stickee you! ” and ran to the
cart. I just had time to yell to Bill
as the Chow jumped off the front
of the cart with a most devilish-
looking knife. There wasn’t a tree
in sight! Bill sprang for the horizon.
I went down the well to see how
the water was holding out. Bill came
back the next week and pulled me
up; but the Chow was gone. Except
for a bruise or two, I came off well.
Bill still looked aS if he’d been
travelling hard. He told me that
Chow pursued him for miles, right
through Hay township, out the other
side and back again; and he was only
induced to forego his murderous mten-
tion when Bill rushed into a pub. and
offered beer to the pursuer as the latter burst
through the doorway.
'‘A.P.R.”: Like men, some animals
become attached to a particular spot, and will not
leave it. X once knew of n hatter sheep which
lived, day and night, in the bend of a creek, con-
trary to the instipcts of its mates, which retired
to the hills at dusk. Persuasion per medium of
dog was useless, as the woolly hatter would he
down when importuned. Once, however, to its
great disgust, it was carried fo the shearing shed
in a cart and shorn of its four years’ accumulation.
On being returned to the paddock it hastened to
its old abode. One night, though, a flood came
hurtling down that creek, and —exit sheep, lie-
collect a wild bullock, too, that reigned over a
reedy flat. He never left it save to pursue an
intruder. I have also known horses to separate
from their fellows apd become hermits.
“ Wilbea” : Papua is, for its population,
easily first as the Land of Tin. Among other
things of Australian manufacture imported into
the Possession were 144 tons meat, six tons jam,
17 tons of milk, four tons of vegetables, and nine
tons of fruit—all in tins of sundry shapes and
prettiness of label. Why people dont die of
ptomaine poisoning is a mystery. Ha,ve never
heard of a case yet. (No, because it s good
Australian tinned stuff. —Ed. B.) After about
six months of solid tin, the taste of it is over
everything, and the tinniness of life enters the
very soul. Among my own stores, I can t find
anything that isn’t tinned, from suet and sausages
to sheep’s trotters and soup—except whats in
bottles.
* * * *
‘‘ Maori Mac ” : Ten shillings a head now
on the kea ! Maoriland sheepfarmers have only
of late definitely convicted this butcher-bird ot
sheep-murder, though he has been long under
suspicion. His method is to alight on the lamb s
neck and tear its eyes out. Later, when the
animal falls from exhaustion, he tears a hole in
the carcase and extracts the kidney lat.
A new J.P. in a dairying district was
recently called upon to “ sit upon ” a “ drunk and
disorderly.” It was his first drunk and his first
case, and he was rather in a haze. The big
awkward dairyman shuffled around uneasily, and
finally telegraphed the policeman to approach.
The bobby propped the delinquent up temporarily,
and came near. “ What’ll I do ? ” demanded the
J.P. in a frightened whisper. “How’ll I start
the thing like ? ” The bobby instructed him, then
hastened back to his drunk, who showed signs of
folding up again, and proceeded to give his evi-
dence. The J.P. soon paused, once more at a
loss. Finally he made a choice at hazard between
12 and 24 hours, and decided on the latter. The
bobby fixed up the prisoner again, and hurriedly
approached once more, ‘ ‘ What’s the matter
now?” demanded the J.P. with sudden dignity.
“ The lock-up ain't done up yet, and me pigs is
in.” The bewildered justice dropped into a fresh
bog of despair, and looked piteously at the
trooper. “You’ll have to fine him,” said that
functionary in a stage whisper. “How much?”
“ Well, it’s no use fining him more than half-a-
crowrf, for that’s all he's got in his pocket,” and
the business of the court proceeded.
BEEPS AND SHALLOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have seen a river flowing, flowing smoothly on its way,
Not a wrinkle on its surface to tell what beneath it lay ;
And I’ve seen a river babbling loudly o’er its bed of stone,
Laying bare its shallow substance to the gaze of everyone.
I’ve seen a man fight stolid ’gainst misfortune s chilly
grip,
Not the blinking of an eyelash, nor the quiver of a lip ,
And I’ve heard a man loud cursing, seen him leaping on
his hat,
Because he’d let some trifle get him squarely ‘ on the
mat.”
I have seen a man a-toiling, slaving onward with a smile,
Just to keep the pot a-boiling that the kids might live
the while ;
And I’ve heard a loafing bummer growling bear-like o er
his pot,
About this played-out country, mixed with other Thomas
rot.
Within the hearts of men are deeps no lead will ever
sound,
For the cord is not yet w'oven to reach places so profound;
And within their hearts are shallows babbling nothings
to the air,
And it needs no diving outfit to detect what’s lying there.
VIC.
O. C. HUTBUSH.
OLD JACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The gold-haired boy from the house had strayed,
And no one had seen him go,
Till he toddled out on the grassy grade
A mile from the house or so,
Where the steep creek-banks a death-trap made
And the grey tide churned below.
And the mother shrieked in her sudden fright,
And the women cowered and cried,
But the boss, with his brown cheeks ashen white,
Swung round where the dogs were tied,
And dropped a chain like a streak of light,
And whistled old Jack : “Go wide ! ”
And a hope arose in the little crowd,
For the old dog seemed to know,
And his master whistled him, sharp and loud,
Which means “ Hurry up—too slow ! ”
And Jack swung round where the cliff-top bowed,
As wide as he well could go.
Now, sheepdogs work in a hundred styles,
From here to the Shetlands bleak;
But Jack was a-brim with the kelpie wiles
(And the kelpies all but speak !).
And the boss turned round with a face all smiles:
“ I could hold him there a week ! ”
U.S.A.
But the child went on, as though doomed to learn
Where the shadow of dim death lay,
And the father’s face grew white and stern
And he whistled again, they say,
The short sharp whistle for “ Block and turn ! ”
When a wild sheep breaks away.
And the wind was high, but the kelpie heard
And he crept to the boy, alert,
For a good dog casts like a racing bird,
But sets like a wood-duck hurt;
And he made his bound when the youngster stirred
And rolled him in the dirt.
And the baby cried in his baby fright,
And the old dog sneaked away;
But as soon as the child moved left or right
The dog in his pathway lay,
And turned him back from the beetling height
And the water swift and grey.
And the father stood on the brink at last
With his child in his strong arms laid,
And thanked his God for the danger past.
.... And that, so I’ve heard it said,
Was the safest set and the finest cast
That ever the old dog made,
WILL H. OGILVIE.


Our artist has a stormy interview with the editor ol this paper who lightly
ran over a list ot events to be pictorially treated for this .Issue—the arrival of
the Japs, Empire Day, Responsible Govern-
ment Celebration,. Home Rule Meeting at
Town Hall, etc., etc,
rt cN' \V
“ ; v* 6
, e>. A'
*
60 V & %° v
<f .< of *® 6
V"
o*®* 1
>Vtvr
***>
A**
><!■*
Our artist sleeps over It. A news-
paper artist must be inured to hard-
ship. So ours sleeps in a hammock or
on the doormat.
He is rudely
awakened in
the morning by
sounds as of the
cook pounding the
matutinal steak in the
kitchen, but it turned out
to be salutes exchanged by the
arrived Japs and the local fleet.
IT NEVER
■RAINS BUT
IT POURS.
Ist Loyal Briton : ” Come,
drink that up, and let’s
have another to ‘The
Empire.’ ”
2nd ditto: ‘‘l shay, ole
chap, go slow. I’ve on’y
got’s far ash ‘ ’Spponsh-
’ble duv’ment,’ and, top
of every-shing elsh, It’s
my birthday I”
o Q.
hS* % v
A C»> *
% ° 'V
VV%
*±*o % %%>
\ °f <tj,V *•
'l % \ it *s•
vX
V* V*
f . f. O-'
«* \'
>?
Society Lady (adapting herself): '‘John, you savee how do compare
Australee lady with Japanee lady?”.
Count Kimono Marlsklno (of the Jap fleet adapting himself) : << Mine
think 'em Australee lady old man budgeree, which I believe in the
language of the Australians means vary good! ”
V our artist te kes a Jap Admiral
(or something) for a spi „ ln his
motor car to view our Australian
navy. The visitor Is much Im-
pressed, and asks permission to
photograph it. Which our artist
urbanely gives.
While seeking admission to the anti-Home Rule meeting via the
Town Hall roof our artist was struck by a rocket—and not a sham-
rock-et either (take a week off and think this out).
Empire Day Orator: “To you our posterity—to you
the olive branches of Empire—must we look for
perpetuating those silken bonds which we—we—
that Is to keep up the loyal traditions of your
Australian forefathers and”
A Still Small Voice: “And pay their debts!”
r.ie last “ Banzai ” for the departing
m<lS ‘ be confeS3 *d» was rather
thickly uttered.
We here have a sketch of one of the
features of the Illuminations, but blest if
the artist hasn’t drawn It wrong way
“P-
Our artist was discovered by the night
watchman early on Sunday morning
with his head in the was tepaper-basket.
He stirred uneasily In bis sleep and
murmured “Too machee Banzai!"
A BUSY WEEK.


F*f Importer: - ” (>">« > •*»/ 9 > w O kK !
TTje " Ib^ K S +* y ou >
lilCes °f 7«* - fyere
no worK ,
y%* **»s , L vt
<*of >*i p Wn *
I) *2% fBMHL. e '
Ar#«lS'. VhAf My *s "OOroe"^A 11 onW * rcl ' )> ogr $S
Aus ,. !: • ft,—l*.*. <s*£-RW,t *-*•!”
p NE
. y panel
h* rjow out" |
<\)>Art f POhrj ttje o%r two .
t^ e ]
~|jj« I t«st" of fjnc Keh»>al s
fas fired •
fsfo'T~b*Vl of legions/ Put" €r*?U'^nOl7^
WcVe produced QQR bust - . W<\t*irA/ly '*fzvt
Called ours ''Peacel"— Fiscal peace.
"2,i'p0,000
of Vic IV*d i$ in ftje fanois
of II farmers, rent" of only
’iISSH- o r s *y J^st"About" J
-ffa of A Syn All BourKe C r
Shop fronfAgfc
' tfc «f
provisions tys® If tje
Consequent" oftije
CrcW tljer* is no U*v i*7
to compel t|j®
Of "lice'll® r| sUn4 to
y re|>le*»isti h'S Storey
[OA')/%«']
( 00^9
H“jrd dui'lrjn Ttjs ./e*)ti li.'tlof, of |euj in
Me lb Police Court.— " Hebrew bricK at hrje,
l\\\\Y h»r»7 Witfr wy lunch!” >%
Mv» (X +b Ay):—" (orrjC
*' Two officers of flje. Wiwimen’s
LMSwfc Out"lkiributine'*!)«■ •'
Cover*cl 30 ">i'*S *«&/ for *f°rft'ght
~ , x 7 1 . I* iDdily.rj
\ W<^
Tw*s w |"■
FISCAL PEACE AND SUNDRIES.


\
Itioril
The longer a denti-
frice prevents fermentation
and decomposition processes in the
mouth after the rinsing of the
mouth has been finished, the better
the dentifrice* In permanent effi-
cacy all similar preparations are
surpassed by Odol*
Price 'S/6 a bottle of Odol , lasting for
several months (the half-size bottle 1/6).
Of all Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
After all, George Reid’s political failure
is only another instance of the removal of the
fattest.
Jack Wren, the Melbourne illegal tote
man, now threatens, on account of “the unjust
press criticism to which he has lately been
subjected,” to shortly bring out a paper of his own
“second to none in the world.”
Harry Levien, “ father ” of N.S. W. Legis-
lative Assembly, is neither old in years, being
under 57, nor in Parliamentary life, having first
entered the House in 1880. But Parliamentary
life in N.S.W. has been mostly a stepping-stone
or a passing honor.
It was solicitor H. Richardson Clark, of
Sydney, who was responsible for discovering the
point on which W. N. Willis succeeded in outing
the first extradition proceedings in Natal. The
legal profession in S’Africa is probably contem-
plating a statue to Mr. Clark.
Dill Macky, of the wonderful legs, cele-
berated his silver wedding on May 24. A Bul-
letin man saw the rev. gentleman humping a
large bouquet about that time, and erroneously
concluded that the date was the anniversary of the
Flames of Smithfield, or something like that.
Mrs. Elisabeth Dismorr, who died in Eng-
land on April 15, was the last surviving child of
the first Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Hordern, whom
she accompanied to Sydney in 1825, when four
years old. Mrs. Dismorr passed the last 40 years
of her life in England, and left it at the age of 85.
Sydney has a Consul-General for Servia,
but he lingers in the cold shades of official non-
recognition, which is an awful state for a consul
to be in. Edward YII cuts Peter of Servia dead,
and officially there is no such place as Servia, and
its consul is consul for Nowhere.
Miss Charlotte Davis, a young Sydney
artist, has won the gold medal for portrait paint-
ing in Colarossi’s studio competition, Paris. The
prize, an annual one and much c6veted, is open
to all artists, but has been annexed by Australians
twice in succession, last year’s winner being Philip
Fox, of Melbourne.
Tommy Bent’s motor car has collapsed
under him again. This time it was in the Anakie
Ranges, and Thomas narrowly escaped a cold
night out. Fortunately he was picked up by a
passing vehicle and carried safely to cover. The
passing vehicle is supposed to have been a traction
engine.
Old Robert S. Brain, Government Printer
in Victoria for the last 20 years, died suddenly the
other day. Brain entered the State service when
he was 11 years old and was a civil servant for
over half-a-century. He was a decent old chap,
liked by the men under him, and, like every
printer who toils while other men sleep, known
only to a few people outside the craft.
“ARTIE” ROBINSON, little Willie Kelly's
playmate in the House of Reps., and member
for Wannan.
“ Lord Cole ” was a name frequently on
the lips of the Jap tars as they tried to converse
in Sydney restaurants. They meant that warm
admirer of colored men and cheap labor, and that
cordial anti-Australian, Cole of the Arcade, but
what they really wanted to say about him
remained a mystery.
Rev. Archdeacon Langley, pf Sydney (who
probably isn’t a happier churchman because The
Bulletin is located in his parish), celebrated his
70th birthday on May 17. Mr. Langley, who is
spry and hale for his years, is one of the decentest
of clergymen, and does good work without osten-
tation or sectarian disturbance.
This yarn is going the rounds of the M.L.
press relative .to Rua, the brand-new Maori
prophet, who claims to be a brother of Jesus
Christ and a friend of Edward VII. A very
wrinkled old chief, who still cherishes fond
memories of cannibalism, started catechising the
presumptuous fraud. “Where is your father?”
“I don’t know,” replied the prophet. “Where
is your uncle?” “I don’t know.” “But I
know,” yelled the old chief excitedly. “I ate
them ! ”
Maoriland Chief Justice Stout got a reply
from the dock the other day that floored him for
the moment. He told an old man named Lee
that he (Lee) was an expert burglar. “ No, your
honor,” said the modest man awaiting sentence,
“I’m only a bungler at the business.” And he
pointed to the fact that he had spent the past 40
years almost entirely in gaol as a proof of his
statement. The Chief Justice had breath enough
left to say “ Seven years.”
“ Quart ” ; How’s this for a
strenuous life ? And the man who has
lived it, Thomas Dunn, is, at 71, still
going strong. According to his own
account, more or less authenticated,
he was at the siege of Sebastopol, sub-
sequently went out to India with the
Naval Brigade, afterwards fought in
the American Civil War as a cavalry-
man in the blue-coated army, and was
wounded early. Taking to the sea again,
he served in the first turret ship ever
built, and was at the breech of the gun
which sent the Merrimac to the bottom.
Next in South America he fought first
in the navy of Peru, and afterwards in
that of Brazil. Later he joined the
merchant service, and became chief
officer of the Florence Nightingale,
which traded between Australia and
China. Settling down in Australia he
was gold-miner, bushman, and sundry
other things, and at present, anchored
in the North Coast of N.S.W., is ferry-
man at Boyd’s Bay, Tweed River. But
his chief claim to fame in that locality
rests upon the fact that he is the father
of a family of 27. Locally he is known
as “King Pin”—not a bad name, all
things considered. Apropos birth-rate,
the Tweed also boasts a family of 24, the latest
addition to this little lot having been twins a few
months ago. There is another family of 19, which
includes 11 daughters, all married, and doing their
duty.
Barring Lyttelton Holyoake Bayley, Soli-
citor-General in 1859 (if he be alive), the oldest
ex-Minister of the Crown in N.S. Wales is Julian
E. Salomons, who was Solicitor-General in the
Robertson Ministry in 1869, his runners-up being
E. A. Baker and ‘ ‘ Cocky ” Burns, of the Robert-
son Ministry 1875-77. F. B. Suttor comes next.
Marian Drewe, an artiste well known in
Sydney, was through the ’Frisco earthquake.
She escaped to the street in a bath-robe just as
the roof fell in on her bed. Her studio was
destroyed by fire. “ The disaster is one of the
things the American press cannot exaggerate
about,” concludes Miss Drewe, grimly.
J. A. G. Little, who died lately in the
Northern Territory, had been telegraph station-
master at Darwin since 1871, the year the line was
built. He ticked through the first message ever
sent across Australia from Darwin to Adelaide,
sent the first cable message from Australia to
Europe, and took the first message from the
other side.
Maoriland, which, some years ago, hounded
out of its public service a valued official because
he held opinions about the Boer war which
everyone holds now, is being urged to hunt down
Labor Department Secretary Tregear because, in
a private letter (which by some mischance found
publication), he advocated absolute Socialism.
The Bulletin trusts Maoriland won’t be such a
fool this time.
A deceased New Yorker named Daly is
said to have willed the sum of half a million
dollars to the relief of aged thieves and spielers.
This looks like an awful temptation for the
administrators of the Daly estate, especially if
they happen to be aged. They can declare them-
selves “crook” and relieve themselves accord-
ingly-
Farmer M'Keevers, who recently adver-
tised his farm to let at Tatham (N.S.W.), stipu-
lated that “ no dairyman who sweats his children
need apply.” Why is it that the dairying indus-
try, one of the most profitable soil enterprises in
Australia, is associated with so many glaring
abuses —child labor, employment of colored aliens,
and, frequently, a desire to sell a bad article to the
factories ?
William Aberdeen, who, in June, 1851,
being then a licensed hawker, was among the first
to strike the precious metal in the Plenty Ranges,
about 30 miles from Melbourne, has not yet been
gathered in. He still lives and moves in the
neighborhood of Castlemaine (Vic.), and although
he is 87, he has never once, by his own account,
had to undergo repairs at the hands of a doctor.
So low has the income of the Anglican See
of Riverina fallen that the bishop has had to sell
up his household treasures. Of course, theoretic-
ally, a bishop should live on manna and kangaroo-
rat. But practically the game isn’t played that
way now, and it’s a serious reproach to the
Riverina Anglicans that they don’t keep their
shepherd in better rations.
Premier Tom Price, of S.A., like Premier
Tom Bent, of Victoria, is very fond of dropping
into reminiscences when on the platform, and
Adelaide people have learned quite a lot of their
political chief’s early days. Recently he told a
body of State school boys that when he was young
he used to spend all his pennies on books about
i Robin Hood, Jack Sheppard, Dick Turpin, and
other heroes of the forest and the highway.
Price seems to be almost the only case on record
of a good man brought up on a diet of penny
shocks.
David C. Askew, who died recently at
Balwyn (Vic.), aged 52, was one of Melbourne’s
best-known civil engineers. He was born in Cum-
berland (Eng.), and came in his youth to Mel-
bourne, where he worked .'as a carpenter what
time he was studying at the. University. Having
got his C.E. degree, he entered into partnership
with his old employer (Mr. Twentyman), and the
firm erected many pf Melbourne’s big buildings,
including the Block, the Tramway offices, and
Fink’s Buildings. Askew also designed the Hotel
Metropole, Sydney.
“L.”: You have been talking recently
about liquor hogs. What about “Swannie”?
“ Swannie ” died in the Melbourne Hospital with
a fractured skull-base, and nobody knew his name
for days. All that a “cobber” could say was
that “Swannie” (who lived in the temperance
township of Ascot Vale !) had 15 rums on Sunday
morning (15 Sunday rums !), and that when he and
Swannie parted, Swannie, in “the cobber’s”
matured opinion, was “not sober.” “The
cobber” had 15 long beers, and was still sober
enough to judge of Swannie’s condition.
About the death of Cassidy :
A Greek bearing the Irish name of Cassidy died sud-
denly at Wellington (M.L.), the doctor certifying “ heart
disease.” Deceased’s only daughter at once looked for a
big woollen belt he was alleged to have worn, and which
she said contained £5OOO, The absence of the cash lent
an air of mystery to the business, and people wondered
why Cassidy should carry so much about with him, and
how he became possessed of it, and' who" had mur-
dered him for the money. He hadn’t been long in Wel-
lington, and had previously run a small apple shop at
Suva (Fiji). The distracted daughter had never really
seen the money, hut she had seen the old man fixing up
the belt at Suva, and when she asked him how much was
in it he had said, “ Five thousand pounds.” Cassidy the
Greek died with six shillings and a copper on him, and
the most frenzied inquiries can’t trace the belt, which
may only have been a device to keep rheumatism from
settling on his Greek loins.
A BANNER WITH A STRANGE DEVICE.
Shrewd little church-orator Judkins, who
rushes round on “pleasant Sunday afternoons”
declaiming against the Collingwood tote, is John
Wren’s double. There is the same forehead (both
men are high-crowned), the same narrow, close-
set eyes, same thin, compressed mouth and coffin-
end chin. Judkins’s facial angle is exactly the
same as Wren’s; his ears, like those of the tote-
orgamser, grow outward at an angle of 30 degrees.
Even their hair sprouts in the same fashion.
What? these things mean, let Judkins, Wren,
and Lombroso decide. The methods by
which they work are not dissimilar. Judkins
twists the words of his enemies ; Wren is said to
twist their tails. Judkins pours oil into the ears
of those he wishes to placate; Wren is said to
pour it into their palms—at least a good many
palms are held out to him on spec. Both men are
clever ; it is no easier to nail Judkins down with
a libel action than to squash Wren under the
Police Offences Act. And one is tote, while the
other is teetotal.
There is believed to be no man left who
was in the first or second N.S.W. Parliament;
but Morris Asher, now just
upon 89, was in the third.
He attended the “jubilee”
the other day, and spoke in
Parliament House again, after
a silence of 46 years. Also,
there are E. M. Sayers, now
of Mosman’s (Sydney), who
was there in 1859, but the
jubilee had to pull through
without him ; and Frederick
A. Cooper, now of Mel-
bourne. The oldest living
N. S. W. Parliamentarian
(oldest in a political sense)
is William Walker, for 18
years past in the House of
Landlords. He began in the
Assembly in 1860.
Some June birth-
days : —Labor leader
Archibald (S.A.), 56 on
the 3rd; Burgoyne,
oldest member of S.A.
Assembly, 79 on the
10th ; Louis Becke, 49
on the 17th; Essex
Evans, 43 on the 18th ;
Archbishop Murphy
(Tas.), 91 on the 18th ;
Chief Justice Griffith of the High Court, 61 on
the 21st; President Baker, 64 on the 22nd; Dill
Macky and his wonderful legs are all three aged
57 on the Bth ; Federal Statist Knibbs, 48 on the
13th ; Henry Lawson, 39 on the 17th; explorer
David Lindsay, 50 on the 20th; Dr. Liddell,
M.H.R., 44 on the 26th ; Dean Marryatt (Ade-
laide), 79 on the 26th ; missionary Joseph King,
67 on the 30th.
The leader of the staff (Cunningham) and
the sub-editor (Nish) of the Melbourne Argus, as
well as the editor (Schuler) and sub-editor
(Stephens) of the Age, were all trained on the
Bendigo press. That, too, is the town from which
the Sydney Telegraph derived one of its founders
(Angus Mackay). Bendigo’s chief products are
singers, journalists, gold, and public-houses.
As illustrating the theory of promoting
District Court Judges to the Bench of the State
Boss Court, Justice G. B. Simpson and Justice
Cohen, of N.S.W. Supreme Court, can be cited.
Both resigned seats on the District Court Bench,
took to serving political parties, and mounted the
higher eminence, not because they had become
better lawyers, but because there was a stronger
political push behind.
Someone has dug out the alleged fact that
British ex-Premier Balfour is a descendant, only
15 times removed, from Robert 11. of Scotland
(King Bleary), of whom it was said “he was a
man not valiant, with red eyes, who would rather
lie than ride.” It doesn’t appear much of a dis-
tinction to be descended from so horizontal a
monarch, but anyhow Robert 11. was a king, and
in England it is something to be related to almost
any royal shadow, however faintly it is reflected
on the rim of history.
David Alexander Crichton, one of Vic-
toria’s oldest pressmen, well-known throughout
Australian horticultural circles, passed out last
week, aged 82. He served in the Heavy Dra-
goons in the Crimea, but even in his most warlike
hours he was a flower lover always, and he
became horticultural editor of Melbourne Weekly
Times bade in the seventies. Subsequently, he
contributed, on his favorite theme, to the veget-
able columns of many leading papers. The
busting of the land boom hit him heavily, and in
the end the Old Colonists’ Home took him in.
“ H. J. 8.” : He that par about M‘Gowen’s
projected retirement from leadership of N.S.W.
Opposition and from politics (B. 24/5/’O6). As a
Redfern Labor voter since the inception of the
Labor party, I can safely say this is news to
M'Gowen and his supporters. It is quite the
reverse of fact that he “has done fairly well out
of politics”—the election canard about the ter-
race notwithstanding. Mac. the boilermaker was
better off than the Labor leader is. The Labor
party may hold a brighter man; it has no whiter
man.
♦
Freetrader Lonsdale, who misrepresents
New England (N.S.W.) at great length in the
House of Reps., will be shot at from all sides
by a hostile press next election. The papers in
his constituency have, in a wholesale way, lost
faith in their old Joss Freetrade.
“ 0.F.” : After reading all the available
biographies of Lord Meath, I find that the most
important facts concerning him are that he owns
30,000 acres and originated Empire Day. And
truly Empire Day is just the brilliant idea one
might expect from a squire who possesses 30,000
acres and a delightfully subservient set of tenants.
In the main it is simply an extension of the
bad old English custom of giving the “ tenantry
a “feast” of stale pastry, and an accompanying
lecture on keeping their proper stations in life,
and obeying their pastors and masters. But in tne
Melbourne cases that came under my notice this
year the long-suffering kiddies did not even get
the day before yesterday’s jam-tart. They were
marched in the rain through slushy suburban
streets to damp public gardens, where Aider-
man Jabwog wordily impressed them with the
importance of Alderman Jabwog and Edward
VII. particularly Alderman Jabwog. Then
they were conducted back through the increasing
slush and rain without once being made to realise
that they had mouths on them, while Alderman
Jabwog departed in a carriage.
“ Have you had any intimate acquaintance
with his Honor ? ” asked the man in stuff, chewing
a large wad of brief paper and putting a boot be-
tween the leaves of the Federal Constitution Act
to keep the place open. “ Well, he’s worth
knowing intimately. You heard how he bounced
me the other day in front of the public? You
should know him intimately. He’s a curio.
That’s what he is ; more than half mad, I should
say. All these years on the Bench, facing the
public, and never exciting suspicion. But his
intimates know. You couldn’t guess what he has
in a bottle in his library ? His wife’s tongue ! Do
you know, he spends an hour before it every night
of his life, stirring it with a straw. What does he
doit for? What did he bounce me for ? That’sjust
it—it’s his queer mind. I was in the library one
night when he came in and took down the bottle.
I stood, speechless, looking at him. When he
saw he was caught he told me all. She was a
talker, I admit, but it was her money made him.
Oh, I don’t mind his bouncing me ; it’s only just
that, not knowing the crank he is, people might
think I deserved it. And do you know how he
sits at supper?—he usually has supper alone.
Always with one leg out of his trousers. There
he goes swinging the naked leg the whole time,
thinking it aids digestion. If people who take
him for the pink of propriety could only see him
swinging that leg, they wouldn’t be surprised at
anything he does. You have to be intimate with
a man to really know him and value his opinion.”
He spat out the wad of brief paper and took his
boot out of the Federal Constitution.
A WAIL FROM THE WEST.
This country is getting to be a small edition of the
House of Babel. During the last three months there
arrived in the State in excess of departures 67 Italians,
53 Austrians, 12 Frenchmen, eight Dutch, a Dane, a
Roumanian, a Maltese, eight “undefined” immigrants,
and 136 assorted Asiatics. Interesting to know what
proportion of them underwent the immigration test. —
SUNDAY TIMES (W.A.), May 13, 1906.
“ 'Tain’t much use trying to draft this mob, but
I’ll round the man up that dropped that
panel! ”
Jonas Felix Levien, M.L.A., Victoria,
died last week in Melbourne. He was born
at Williamstown, in 1840. In 1871 lie entered
the Legislative Assembly for South Grant, and
subsequently represented Barwon (part of the
Grant electorate) until his death. So he practi-
cally represented the same constituents for 31
years. He was Minister for Mines and Agri-
culture in the Gillies-Deakin Government, 1883-86.


A Game on the Green.
In the Good Old Days.
HIS GRAND GAME, RECOMMENDED by the FACULTY » d opt<g ”
ARISTOCRACY, and played at by PLAIN BILL and MERELY MARY AM ,
is a MODERN ADAPTATION of
TENNIS
AS PLAYED IN THE
GOOD OLD TIMES.
Bluff
King'Hal
and THAT OTHER KING, sometimes known as THE
EIGHTH of the NAME,
who, by the way, would
have been a SPLENDID
CUSTOMER at the DI-
VORCE SHOP had he
lived in Australia in THE
TWENTIETH CEN-
TURY, was a SPLENDID
PLAYER AT TENNIS, aim - -—7 p ttt? PFROTT)
MERRY MONARCH, who, according to A POET OF THE PEROID,
Never Said a Foolish Thing, and Never Did a Wise One,
was A TOP NOTCHER at the same game. These and OTHER ROYALTIES PLAYED
AT TENNIS with their courtiers, in SPECIALLY-BUILT COURTS but as time went
on| and CHEAPER METHODS of PLAYING the GAME became desirable,
TENNIS PLAYERS DRIFTED ON
TO THE LAWN,
Where they have MOSTLY PLAYED EVER SINCE.
Bluff King Hal played Tennis.
Ayres* Celebrated
Lawn Tennis Racquets
Known as manufactures of credit and renown.
CENTRAL STRUNG, the Ladies’ Favorite .. 24/-
THE CHAMPION, as its name implies, a Vic-
torious Tournament Racquet 19/6
CANE SPLICED 19 / 6
CORK HANDLED, closely strung with good
White Gut 16 /“
THE A 1 RACQUET, closely strung 14/6
THE HANDICAP, a thorough good one .. .. 12/6
THE UNIVERSAL 10/6
THE SANDOWN, a Beauty at the Price .. .. 8/9
NO. 3, a Reliable Racquet 8/-
Slazenger’s Famous
Lawn Tennis Racquets
Favorites with Hundreds of Players.
THE WHITEHOUSE
THE E.G.M
THE DOHERTY, Vellum Bound Shoulders
THE SPECIAL
THE DEMON
THE RENSIIAW
THE PLAYER
LA BELLE
25/-
30/-
35/-
30/-
18/-
13/6
10/-
7/6
THE VICTORIA, closely strung 20/-
DIAMOND STRUNG 20/-
FULL-SIZE RACQUETS 5/-
CHILDREN’S RACQUETS .. .. 3/-, 3/9, 4/6, 5/6
Tennis players drifted on
to the lawn.
Lawn Tennis Balls
Much discussion frequently arises anent Tennis Balls.
The following* find heaps of advocates I
GREY REGULATION, uncovered, stamped
“F H AYRES ” .. •• •• •• o/o aoz.
TERRA COTTA, stamped “F. H. AYRES”.. 8/6 doz.
CLUB, covered .. i?/fidoz
REGULATION, covered T
CYPRUS, covered
WIMBLEDON, covered - uoz -
AYRES’ CHAMPIONSHIP, covered, stamped
“F. H. AYRES”
SLAZENGER’S, covered, 10/- doz. ; uncovered 9/6 doz.
Lawn Tennis Nets
Size, 42ft. x 3Jft.
TATfRFT) •• •• •• •• 7/-
STEAM TARRED, CANVAS TOP .. 8/6, 10/6, 12/6
STEAM TAItEED, CANVAS TOP,»d wed
Lawn Tennis Posts
Necessary to the Game.
AYRES’ CHAMPIONSHIP, Iron Fittings,
complete •• ®3/- V a ! r
AYRES’ CYPRUS, Iron Fittings, complete.. 31/6 pair
AYRES’ PREMIER 40/- pair
PORTABLE, in two pieces 5/6 pair
o
Plain Bill and Merely Mary Ann.
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY.
ďf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
d
PATENT TWENCENT
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
60 CANDLE POWER, for Less than
ONE FARTHING PER HOUR with
ordinary Kerosene.
Complete, with Mantle
and Chimney, from 28s.
STAND and
HANGING
LAMPS.
%
Extraordinary
Value.
%
Best British
Manufacture.
Complete,
from
18s 6d each.
does your local storekeeper stock
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO:-
Wdsbach Light Co.
OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
OR
230 Flinders Lane Melbourne*
Perry Bros*, Brisbane*
Harold Colton & Co*, Adelaide*
Levi Green, Perth*
“F.C.” : Lately happened across a mem-
ber of another of the out-sizes in American
“ religions ’’—the Society of Immortals. They
boast perhaps a hundred members in Australia
and 100,000 in America, and their chief, or
preacher, or high priest, is one Elbert Hubbard,
who dwells in East Aurora, N.Y. They are
agnostics ; their sole creed being “ to do the best
you can and be kind to everyone. ” Also, the afore-
said Hubbard publishes a beautifully-accoutred
little magazine, called The Philistine, “printed
every little while.”
Whether it is that Westralians are
unusually healthy or more liberally endowed with
common sense than the people of the other States
is not clear, but certain it is that the land of the
Sandgroper is a bad place for the quack. Only a
few months ago the lecturer of a dubious institu-
tion was mobbed and hunted out of the place
where he tried to hold advertising meetings ; and
the other day a flashily-dressed woman who had
toured the State with a system of treatment “ for
ladies only,” shook the dust of the local whirlwind
off her disgusted feet. She had spent large sums
advertising, taken halls and lecture rooms, but
could never get more than a dozen auditors, who
seemed to have come mostly to make disparaging
remarks,
“ T.D.” : The Japs in London nowadays
are legion. The place to find them is in the
naughty West End o’ nights. It is impossible to
walk round Leicester-square without meeting our
Monkey ally ogling the voluptuous ladies of that
place. Also, if you go into the Empire, or the
Alhambra, you find squat and ugly little yellow
men in Bond-street evening togs, and fetching
diamonds, selecting their standard of beauty.
They never seem to look at the stage show—but
that’s no depreciation of the Jap’s taste. Still, I
object to meeting the Jap in clubs and places
where one expects to sit down in the midst of
..•bite men. You don’t meet Germans or French-
men, or any kind of clean alien in the fashionable
London clubs, but it’s ten to one that any evening
you spend at your own or your friend’s club you’ll
find yourself cheek by jowl with a little yellow
person, who looks as though he has levered up the
whole universe, and is j ustified in wearing a de-
meanor to fit that circumstance.
A little step, but a suggestive one, towards
modernising Australian Universities is the pro-
posal to change the titles of their terms. Lent,”
“Trinity,” “ Michaelmas what does such
nomenclature denote? Over twenty years ago
Charles Dilke called the Sydney University prac-
tice in that respect “a silly travesty” of an old
English custom. The United States Universities
divide their year into “Spring,” “Summer,”
and “Fall”—“Fall” being Wooden Ham
language for Autumn.
“T.D.” : What apathetic little imitator
the Jap monkey is ! Lately they made Hayashi,
the Ambassadorial Monkey in London, a Free-
mason, and now he announces, in connection with
his departure for Mikado-land, that he means to
set all his fellow Monkeys to the laying of imagi-
nary bricks or the carrying of hypothetical hods,
or whatever it is that the members of lodges do
in their maniacal moments. And no doubt the
funny little men will catch on aptly to the wear-
ing of pretty aprons with Cambridge blue borders
and all the other emblems of the Masonic foolery.
But 1 always understood that the Almighty was
alleged to be mixed up somehow with the doings
of the Enslaved Bricklayers, and if Hayashi and
his countrymen are going to run the business of
Unchained Plumbing on Buddhist principles, it
may cause confusion.
“ L.” : In Collins-street I have often
observed a gorgeous soldier-man, with a long
spiky lance, ride on his foaming steed to the Age
and Argus offices, and dismount to carry large
documents within their portals. Learning one
afternoon that he was the Governor’s orderly, I
looked in the papers next day for announcements
that knighthoods or something had been sent to
Mackinnon or Syme, but found only a puny per-
sonal paragraph stating that his Ex. had enter-
tained Mr. Bumble, and Col. Rooster, and Sir
Broad Bingy at dinner the evening before. Evi-
dently the carrying of that message foul been the
gorgeous one’s duty. Has Australia nothing better
to do with its soldier-men than to set them to
flunkeying that the paid secretary could accom-
plish by telephone ?
It’s a warm, very warm, serial that Syd-
ney D.T. regales its readers with now—a mixture
of religion and obstetrics warranted to appeal to
the just and the unjust alike—from different
points of view.


9k
&
C
(>*
*
c*
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY
QUALITY and AGE.
BRANDY
Dress R^briss
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers. ats
maVTHE varnished board
fd
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
MTD«A»A.m,.- Stdnet, May 29,1906.
O, for a glance at Admiral Shimamura’s private
diary after he had written his opinion on the
ceremony of Presenting the Colors, in the tin drill
shed of the Victoria Barracks last Thursday after-
noon ! A rain deluge had altered the ceremony
from an. outdoqr comedy to a canned con-
cern. Ihe Asiatic warrior stood on the
dais amongst the Governors and the British
Empire League women, silent and immov-
able as a bronze statue. Only his inscrutable
eyes moved. He turns them, as does the
average Asiatic, without moving his head, except
when he wants to see the thing right behind him ;
even his eyes cant revolve far enough for that.
And always they are fastened on the thing (no
matter how trivial) that is being done. Talk
about concentrating reconnaissance down to a
pin s point! Shimamura knows it from here to
Tokio.
If the fixity of his gaze altered at all, it was
?(.mi! 10 ti was watching the Commander of the
JN.S.W. Forces (General Gordon) and members of
his staff doing ushers’ duty, holding their
plumed hats in their hands and keeping back the
steaming canned goods—l mean the mob of damp
men, women and children in the tin shed —from
rushing the platform. A yellow wet dog
the sacred space, and I’m not sure
whether the General shooed it off person-
aily, or whether Colonel Stanley flew at it
(with a drawn sword), or whether Mrs. Hugh
Hixson frightened it away with her determined
British Empire League expression of face and
battle-axe. (The battle-axe, by the way, turned
out to be a flag done in red, white, and blue
flowers, and mounted on a gilded broom handle.)
Anyhow, as the Jap potentate watched the gal-
lant generals and colonels doing odd jobs about the
drill shed, one could feel him thinking “Surely,
as revenge for having to act thus you must nightly
wallop your Joss ! Assuredly, also, you are a most
polite nation—so far as your soldiers are con-
cerned ; aud as for the lady with the inartistic
floral weapon, have you never invited her to
graciously enter your unworthy torture chamber ?
But by all the images of Buddha I am
pleased. It is all no more fraught with
danger than a single-stick entertainment.
If instead of these few hundred soldiers
with swords that would be useless in action, and a
priest saying a prayer over the colors, you had
stood me on the steps of your post-office to watch
the march-past of a citizen soldiery, all trained
u 1 j front end of the procession
had been long out of sight, and the tail was not
due to come m sight for another hour, well ”
Lady Northcote wore the dandiest little, round,
black velvet hat as an adjunct to her grey voile
frock and cream coat. (A hat may be an adjunct,
1 suppose.) It (the adjunct) had a mass of white
ostrich tips on the tilted side. The Commandant’s
wife (or should she be a consort ?), who is a tall,
slender presence, had put her uncommonly good
figure into a dark, closely-fitting tailor-made for
the wet occasion. Others of the military women
who took the eye and held it admiringly were
Mrs. Kenneth Mackay and Mrs. Holmes. Last
is a real striker. Her husband is, I think, a
colonel m the Water and Sewerage Department.
(I m a bit mixed about these fighting-cocks.)
.As the Northcotes’ ball on Empire Day was
honor of Shimamura, the Inscrutable,
and his officers, it couldn’t help being heavily
Japanned. Must have been a thousand white
persons and brown wedged into the insuf-
ficient accommodation of the Northcote reception-
rooms. What is really wanted is an elastic
Government House. Pelting rain precluded invi-
tations to “ coine out and look at the Southern
Cross, and made useless the question, “Have
you seen the illuminations from the terrace?”
4. he same crowd of persons who have been grow-
ing sick of the sight of each other all this week,
through too much meeting on warships of the
Occident and warships of the Orient, and at
mayoral and military festivals, tried to greet each
other with weary smiles. Queer thing, but in a
crowd of a thousand persons you are dead sure to
find your bare shoulder touching the denuded
shoulder of the very person on whose tombstone
you long to read the writing. And the detested
occurrence keeps on occurring.
Lady Northcote likes colors of theearly springand
the sea for her evening gowning—the green that lies
deeper than plummets go, the green of cats’ eyes
the green of the young pea in its pod, or that of
the silky hair that grows around young corn inside
its suit-case. Iherefore she was greenly gowned
and jewelled. Pale grey gowns of crepe, or silk
muslin, got a few wearers. But each exploiter
carried or wore flowers as a tonic to the neutral
tmt. ; Mrs. Philip Morton kept her crimson roses
well in front of her gre.yness, and Miss Edith
Manning had a hillock of violets on her smoky
background.
.It was a very Wliistlerish effect, (Remember
how fond Whistler was of grey and violet caprices.)
Another guest, .all in white silk, had a vaporish
crimson scarf on one shoulder. Of course it left
you a pink memory. Mrs. Neville Dangar and a
.Darling Point girl named Palk proved how well
some dark-women may look in blue—turquoise or
otherwise. (1 or that matter, I suppose, some
blue persons look well in brown.) One smart
dresser will henceforth be snubbed by Queen
Alexandra (should her Majesty have the chance)
tor she had an unmistakable osprey in her hair!
Mr. Knibbs, the new Federal Statistician,
had put on what most persons took to be a
just invented uniform for statists. It was an
inky suit, with knee breeches, the coat sewn all
over with big fancy buttons of cut steel. He
looked like a mathematical Hamlet who had re-
tired with a good competence from the soliloquy.
But the Mayoral Allen Taylor’s outburst of
decorative hospitality put the golden roof on
the weeks revelry. Between 2000 and, 3000
persons were invited to Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night to meet the Northcotes and to
celebrate Empire Day. The Mayoress glittered
like the Milky Way—all silver gauze and steel
engravings (that’s not the word but it will do) over
a black net and underskirt intricacies. Some of
the new scarves of gauze thickly sewn with
masses of chrysanthemum petals (latter made
of crinkly ribbon) were on view—or rather on
oulders. And a regular entomological collection
of birds, vipers and insects (suppose bees and
butterflies are insects) fashioned in divers colors
and materials from tinfoil to precious stones,
were worn in the hair. One Sultana had a
diamond torch with a flame of rubies in her
precipitous front hair. Taking it from Monday
to Saturday, last week must have been a good
one for trade.
• was intellectual and political significance
ln c l ua l. lt y and quantity of the attention paid
to Mr. Chris. Watson at the Northcotes’ crush on
Empire night. From the Governor-General down
to the alderman who cheers up his simple evening
dress \vith a point lace cravat, the ex-Premier had
his choice of being the centre of a conversazione.
Miss Rawson and his State Ex. are back at
Cranbrook for the winter. She is again in the
centre of Vanity Fair, and looking rather pale
and pathetic in her mourning and white furs.
Her elder brother, Lieutenant Rawson, a stalwart
young sea-dog from the Powerful, is being invited
by the Pointer families with great emphasis.
When the Victoria Barracks officers asked the
executive committee of the women’s branch of the
British Empire League to lunch, last Thursday,
they expected to yard in only about twenty
ladies. Instead of which they were-called upon
to provide food and entertaining causerie for
fifty-tigs. The officer commanding (the lunch) is
said to have dropped dead, but as no soldier’s
funeral has been announced the report must be
exaggerated.
At the “At Homes” on board the three Jap
men-o’-war a first-rate champagne (so said the ex-
perts) was in great superfluity. A little Sloe-Eyes
told guests “Plenny more. Port Arthur.” It
was looted from that unhappy citadel.
Five hundred Dunedin (M.L.) girls have signed
a pledge to have nothing to do with any man who
smokes. A league of that kind isn’t likely to
make much headway, however. It is composed
for the most part of juvenility, which has its hair
a-hanging down its back and is never seen in the
public thoroughfares without its music portfolio
and other intellectual sundries. When the right
man conies along, and has a good billet, and can
stock a home with frying-pans and furniture, the
little miss will put up her hair, and let out a tuck
in her skirts, and forget her vow with great
enthusiasm. The wise, matured female would
never let a plug of tobacco stop her progress on
the high road to matrimony.
. Mrs. Hugh Ward, wife of the Man from Mexico,
is, with her two sons, on her way hither in the
Mooltan. When she married the Man who does
the treadmill step she was Grace Millar, solo
soprano in a Boston cathedral. Or was it a Pitts-
burg temple ? Forget. Anyhow, Iron is as good
as Culture.
Dr. and Mrs. Wunderlich (she was Miss Eva
Bryant, a Sydney beauty of the finest marble-
classic type) are back from a short Asiatic
tour. They return mourning the death of the
wee Wunderlich.
A further item from the quaking city of ’Frisco
mentions the marriage of Mrs. Maud Lawson (nee
Gumming), late of Toorak and a cousin of Mrs.
Rupert Clarke, to a Mr. Hardy Ballance, son of
a planter in North Carolina, where it’s a long
time between drinks. Ceremony (April 18th)
made a splash at the St. Francis.
The lady who was Mrs. Banks, of Mosman,
was married recently in M.L. to a rather distin-
guished scholar and frilly man.
Please buy your tickets at Paling’s (or else-
where) for the grand concert on June Cth in aid of
the Sydney sick, lame and needy. That last
word alone makes the order rather large, and
you’ll need to buy a lot of tickets.
horny-handed Irishwoman recently
asked a M.L. girl artist to make a special picture
of her late husband. She had been twice widowed,
and exhibited two portraits, and rather ineo-
herently proceeded to describe certain alterations
she desired in a picture to be painted from them.
Artist girl was puzzled, and widow began again :
, “ Yez see, Miss, this wan was Jim, me first mahn. He
had the handsome face and lovely long red whiskers but
' IIS , fi B' al 'e was a bit on the sthumpy side. Me second
mahn Tom, was plain iv face, but it was the fine fig-ure
he had. ’ Miss S. nodded intelligently. “ You want a
nice enlargement of each ?’’ she asked. The widow was
distressed at not having made her wishes clear. She did
not want them separate; could the lady put them
together ? Oh, I see ; you want them side by side in
the enlargement?” But light was not yet, and it was
only after much stuttering, sighing, and indications of
weepiness over her double-barrelled loneliness that the
relict made the artist at last understand that she wanted
Jmi s good-looking face shifted on to the manly shoulders
and fine figufe of Tom. This apotheosis of the two
deceaseds WasVventually effected, the Jim-Torn enlarge-
ment simply delighting the small woman and bringing
the painter much kudos in the social circle adorned bv
the former. J
The fashion of wearing the hair pinned up
against the hat brim is spreading. Of course it
means that you must have swell hat pins. If you
can only afford shilling ones you won’t approve of
the hair pinned that way.
Miss Ben-Yusuf starts her series of illustrated
lectures on ‘Japanese Journeys and People” at
bt. James Hall on Thursday night next. As she
travelled in Japan native fashion, and lived there
in native houses for two years, she may be able to
invest with some freshness a very written-out and
pawed-about subject.
A new horror looms over the people of this
btate. One or other of our dailies or weeklies is
Pretty sure to publish the prize essay, “The
Bntash Navy, written by a pupil of the Fort-
street High School. Vera Mostyn (isn’t that a
smart-novel name ?), a fourteen-year-old damsel
is the writer, and there were 80 competitors. Last
night, at the Town. Hall, dolphin-in-chief Fawkes
presented the clever infant with the prize—five
sovereigns in a purse-and the Northcotes beamed
upon her, and General Gordon shook her writing-
inflectS Wi ‘ h “ oc “"P lime »'t"y
, CJ T i iere . is a .n angry spookist up Redfern
(Sydney) way just now. A couple of nice young
fellows came along to a seance and introduced'a
nice young girl, who was by way of being a
valuable medium. Madame and her husband
(who takes up the collection, or admission monevl
agreed to give her a trial. At the psychologies
moment the girl mediumised. Rising up with a
glassy expression, she led the way from the front
room out into the back-yard, muttering abouta
treasure and a mystery.' She came out of the
trance, however, without revealing anything On
the return of the party to the room the plate
with the money was missing. Madame and her
husband, instead of tracing the lost money in a
trance, talked law and police; but the company
laughed, and reminded them that.the recovery of
lost property was supposed to be one of their
specialties. * .
Is there anything so absolutely worthless
as the average book-prize day-school or
Sunday-school ? I waited, the other day, in the
parlor of a family in which Willie, and Jane, and
Annie, and Bertie had kept on being top of their
classes for years, and a walnut bookcase was
stuffed with their prizes. There were pale little
stories of children who feared the Lord, and
honored their parents, and kept away from the
cat’s tail; pale descriptions of travel—all out of
date; dim-colored biographies of nobodies, and
popular science hashes. All half-crown publica-
tions, on bad paper, with flimsy binding and
gaudy covers. Litefary and market value alike,
nil. Illustrations awful. Yet their original
cost would have supplied a fine cabinet of good
books.
Australian Field and Garrison Artillery Ball
last week was a jolly affair, which began at 8.30
p.m. and ended at 5 a.m. These gunners are a
robust lot. The ball is organised and managed
by the non-com. officers and men; the officers are
only asked as a matter of grace, and to save some
of the cost of decoration. When a score or so of
officer persons in their very gladdest and goldest
rags turn up they brighten a ball-room consider-
ably. There was a good muster of these
walking decorations—General Gordon, Colonel
Stanley, Colonel Wells, Majors Osborne,
Hyngdon, Lenehan, and Pearce among them
would have started a small Mint. Only civilians
I noticed were Mrs. E. P. Simpson and Mr. Coyle
(whom everybody just has to call Billy), who was
accompanied by his wife. Coyle.pcre made money
in the carrying line, and Mrs. Coyle was a
daughter of “ Butty ” MacMahon, another great
carrier. The alliance gives the pair an interest in
enough nags to horse a couple of regiments of
artillery.
Sydney High School girls were officially asked
on Empire Day, “out of compliment to our
Japanese visitors,” to each wear a chrysan-
themum. Now I’m told that the chrysan-
themum in Japan is the badge of just the
sort of life a girl shouldn’t lead. Apart from
that point, the Sydney High School girls were
more patriotic than Imperialistic. They decided
unanimously they’d wear no yellow man’s badge,
but Australian wild-flowers. And they did.
Bravo ! The young Australian man of the future,
looking for a wife, will feel satisfied, if she has the
High School brand, that at any rate her national
sentiment is all right.
Signor Steffani, who returned to Australia be-
cause his wife wanted to breathe sunlit air again,
instead of fog and grime, speaks of Esta D’Argo
(Hetty Holroyd) as destined to be one of the world’s
sopranos. She is steadily singing her way to the
highest peak of the profession. Her rapid reading
and keen musical instinct enabled her to sing the
seven songs in the cycle song “ The Life of a
Bose,’ at a few hours’ notice, at an important
musical festival, and the Australienne warbled in
Italy in “Bigoletto” and “Carmen” without
further study than she had had in Australia.
When he speaks of Caruso words fail the Signor.
All the shades and sinuosities of which the human
voice is capable he uses with superb effect. Of
Clara Butt he r says her voice is of “enormous
beauty ” ; and Marie Narelle has improved out of
all hearing and believing. The Steffanis, who are
at the Metropole, are going to take a flat in
Phillip-street.
. Peter Closes are giving up their mansion
m Elizabeth Bay and going on the land.
Mrs. Creed (Louise Mack) has published another
girls book, “Children of the Sun,” but it has not
got as far as her native country yet.
I write this covering my face with one hand
(but bolting through my fingers): If you really
wish to belong, even when in your night attire,
to the dress-circle and reserved-stall section of
womankind you must henceforth have your silk
sleeping suits of pyjama architecture. Pink,
lemon and pastel shades of silk are used, and don’t
forget the little silk pocket for your handkerchief.
Frances Adler singing Marguerite to Caruso’s
laust at Covent Garden will seem a staggering
success to all who heard her when she was
singing at the Tivoli here in Sydney. Like most
singers, she has got plump. Dani, so a returned
Australian tells me, has now acquired a fbure
like a huge barrel.
. Sydney artist A. Datillo Bubbo—“ Sydney ”
m the sense that he has done most of his work
here auctions a fine collection of oils and waters
at Lawson and Little’s rooms on Wednesday,
June 6, preparatory to his departure for Europe.
• ■4^P arson,s wife, of Annandale, wrote to novel-
ist Bullen when he arrived asking him to expur-
gate from the “Cruise of the Cachelot” divers
words which she considered unfit for the
Sunday School daisies. The straight-from-the-
shoulder letter she got in reply was a men-
tal (if not moral) knock-out blow. The
book is in its fourteenth edition, and most
popular with goody-goodies. None of the hun-
dreds of thousands of such who have read it
ever objected to its language being “langwidge.”
Henceforth the Holy City is Annandale. Bullen,
j way, ackn °wledges to getting frightfully
ruffled when a philanthropic boss jailer in America
wrote to him for a present of a set of his books to
improve the criminal mind. “A million copies
of my books were sold in America, but my share of
the sales was only £400.”
“ B.”: Advertisements, following public
opinion, proclaim always Grace Palotta as a
‘ beauty.” Granted, of course ; but there are so
many hundreds of beautiful women on and off the
stage who “cut no ice” that, as an advertisement,
the beauty line is hardly worth while. Miss
Palotta’s success is only a little due to good looks.
Mostly it comes from her essentially vital tem-
perament. Grace Palotta is all alive, and she
sparkles her audiences into life. Exuberant
voice, darkling eyes, a quickness and a frequency
of gesture which in almost anyone else would be
flurry—all show the ebullient life. She is
dynamic; that is the one fitting word. But
would that look well in the advertisements—“ the
dynamic actress ” ?
Yours Affectionately, Akenehi.
MalcolmM‘Eacharn, of Goat!)lands, returns
from England with the familiar s:ory—Australia
is despised and distrusted because of its pro-
gressive legislation. He adds: “No one speaks
a bad word for Maoriland.” The obvious infer-
ence is that if we wish to gather in the good
opinion of J. F-i.ll we must go one better, anu
rival Maoriland in trampling down the tender
corns of Freetrade and conservative sentiment.
But that isn’t what IST. M'Eacharn is driving at.
Bulletin 17/5/’OG says: — “Probably no
jury would ever agree on the ideal whisky.” A
very wise jury would certainly agree that D.C.L.
is a sound and safe whisky, and that taken in
carefully graduated instalments it will assist the
intellect out of tight places either in regard to
science, business, politics, or art. Without doubt
a jury of barmaids would give it a great testi-
monial. It is a saying among the Hebes that a
drop of D.C.L. makes a man a wise talker and a
good listener.*
Melbourne detectives continue to keep
themselves before the public. One of them was
lately fined and ordered to proceed to a country
station for a space for allegedly supplying private
and somewhat fanciful information to a Melbourne
weekly paper. This decisis -n, however, Chief
Commissioner O’Callaghan disallowed, and the
detective was re-instated. Meanwhile a Pent-
ridge prisoner had charged the same man
with conspiring with liim and his mate to fix a
charge of receiving on a noted “fence. ’ Crown
Prosecutor Finlayson was deputed to inquire into
this, and reported that there was “no case”; so
he was once more found to be without any
stain. Now, it seems that the other ’tecs, won't
play speaks with their brother; and at this out-
break of family affection and good feeling the
spieler and the “ gun ’’ smile placidly and pursue
their illegal ways with new confidence.
At last Australia has got on the track of
that capital which is being driven away, but the
instance is hardly a satisfactory one. The capital
was £9OO, and it was driven from Ashfield (iN.S.W.)
to Port Hacking (N.S.W.). And it wasn’t hurried
away by Democratic legislation, but only (according
to the bitter letter which the pursued and driven
one wrote to the Ashfield council) forced to flee in
a maimed and broken condition owing to the
municipal rates levied by a gang of property-hold-
ing and Conservative aldermen, and by the cost of
connecting the house with the sewerage system.
If capital can only remain here while it is allowed
to live in an unsewered condition, then it will have
to go.
The gentleman (Mr. Fitzgerald) who is
president of the Tasmanian National Ass, objects
to statements made in The Bulletin (10/5/’ofi)
about himself and his huge rag shop, and writes
to point out—
That president, in his “huge rag shop,” sells Aus-
tralian-made blankets, flannels, clothing, furniture, foot-
wear, and leather travelling requisites to the almost com-
plete exclusion of similar imported lines. Also, as
chairman of the Cascade Brewery Company, he has done
more to shut out imported ale and beer from Australian
consumption than all the other brewers in the Common-
wealth. Moreover, on the council of the Tas. National
Ass are four of the staunchest Tasmanian Protectionists,
who are conducting the largest, wealthiest, and most
successful manufactures in the island.
After that, The Bulletin feels apologetic towards
Mr. Fitzgerald.
When Premier Kidston introduced a Bill
municipalising Brisbane Hospital (it was fired out
by the Fossils), a big howl went up from the
Queen-street Fatman. It was described as an
iniquitous attempt to destroy that spirit of charity
which the voluntary system fostered. Still, Bris-
bane’s Hospital, under the voluntary system, was
broke. It is in debt to the State something like
£lO,OOO. It is up a tree through trusting to
“ voluntary charity,” and is a ditched institution.
The committee has been given a certain time to
straighten the Hospital finances, and if it fails
then the Bill will be re-introduced. And the
committee is just about at its wits' end to carry
on, let alone pay its back debts. Weird schemes
are tried to dig out a few coppers from the yawn-
ing pocket of “ voluntary charity.” Even the
humble household hen is being incited to break
the Sabbath to aid the Hospital. It is proposed
to canvass householders, and ask that eggs laid on
Sunday should be devoted to the good cause.
Canvassers will go round on Monday and collect
the product of the hen that has wrecked the 4th
Commandment. What the Hospital management
wants is that the Government should supply the
funds, but allow it to run the show. And Kidston
doesn’t see that.
HOW TO BE BEAUTIFUL.
Imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery,
but at times it must be very annoying, as in the case of
“ Valaze,” the wonderful Russian skin-food. Three years
ago it was introduced to the public of Australia by Mdlle.
Helena Rubinstein, and so speedily were its good qualities
recognised that quite a big demand sprang up almost
immediately. Instantly dozens of imitations of “ Valaze ”
appeared, got up to closely resemble the Russian skin-
food. Often the food bore a name so nearly resembling
“Valaze” that it deceived buyers. All this was very
flattering, but at the same time decidely aggravating, for
often not only worthless, but positively harmful so called
skin-foods were trading on the reputation of “ Valaze.”
The nourishing, restoring, soothing and healing qualities
of the genuine “ Valaze ” are widely recognised. Price,
3s. 6d. and 65., posted 6d. extra. Comtesse Potocka’s
“ Voskpasta,” (3s. jar) “Valaze” Herbal Soap, (2s. cake).
Comtesse Potocka’s “ Creme Promenade,” for outdoor
entertainments, 3s. 6d. jar. “Valaze” special “Black-
head and Open Pores Cure” guaranteed, 3s. 6d. jar.
“Valaze” Massage Rollers, for use in your home from
Bs. 6d. Washington H. Soul, and Civil Service, Sydney,
leading chemists, or Mdlle. H. Rubinstein and Co., 274
Oollins-street, Melbourne. Guide to Beauty Eree.*
It is generally thought that there is no
cure for stoutness, because the usual treatments
only confine themselves to combating single
symptoms instead of attacking the root of the
disease. Pyrolene Pellets remove not only the
superfluous fat, but also the internal deposits of
fat which hinder the. action of the heart and lungs.
We advise a trial Pyrolene Pellets improve the
breathing, give the heart freedom, and enable the
lungs to expand naturally. Sent free by post to
any part of the States on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 9d. or 135., according to size required.
Arnold’s Balsam Go., 364 a Little Collins-street,
Melbourne.*


kmet
(Dress
For Outdoor Costumes* a Perfect Stockinet*
Anatomically Made*
u
What a glorious boon to Australian ladies to
know that if their skin is disfigured by wrinkles, pimples,
blotches, freckles, sunburn, blackheads, roughness,
chapping, flabbiness, muddiness, or any other blemishes,
Patti’s Beauty Cream will rapidly and permanently
banish them all without the slightest injury to the most
delicate skin 1 It is manufactured by Dr. Martin Artze,
the world-famed Parisian Skin Specialist, from the purest
and most costly ingredients, and is warranted to induce
no hair to grow or produce any eruption on the skin, and
to make the complexion soft, clear, smooth and trans-
parent as that of a healthy infant. It is as much superior
to imitation skin foods as is the beauty of Madame Patti to
that of a small-pox Victim. ' There are thousands of
living proofs of these truths in Australia and New
Zealand to-day, and the piles of testimonials, which grow
larger daily, afford incontestable evidence that Patti’s
Beauty Cream stands supreme as a complexion specific.
Every' month since its introduction to Australia, three
years ago, its sales, have doubled, and not a single
purchaser has made the slightest complaint. Patti’s
Beauty Cream alone does all this because it is a Perfect
Skin Food. Of all Chemists and Stores, price 3s. 6d. and
(is. per pot.*
As intimated in our advertising columns, Mr.
Joseph Woolf, solicitor, who has been practising for 24
years at 43 Market-street, Melbourne, has now removed
to Norwich Union Chambers, corner Queen-street and
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
IMPORTANCE °J FIGVRE
AWell Drgjed L&dy Mvyt
H&Vc a Good Figure, •••**]
by\V&&rii\§l
Onlv ll
m.
m
m
m
e-.-j.
*y.
■''.St
-,C|
W 5
o
o
ASK
FOR THE
AND
SEE
YOU
THAT
GET
THEM
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 29, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The She National League got itself and the
feminine public generally excited over its way of
celebrating Empire Day. A big, free show of
strum, speech and tootle was too great a bait to be
resisted. For that occasion all Melbourne was
Imperialist. The crowd swarmed into the build-
ing, until, at seven o’clock, a huge, angry overflow
pressed and pushed around every entrance to the
hall. All waved pasteboards of admittance to
vindicate their claims to seating accommodation.
In despair, a meeting of the organisers was held
in the Town Hall—probably in the organ
pipes, no other space being available —and they
decided hurriedly to run a second show at the
Pianola Hall. So the crowd poured across until
there was no room there to put your temper
straight, and the helmetted Force took charge of
the gangways. Even then disappointed ticket-
holders mooned about Collins-street complaining
bitterly. Somebody in sheer goodness of heart
and overflow of enthusiasm must have distributed
a quarter of a million of those free-treat tickets.
Despite their wooden faces, those Jap boys
showed themselves pretty “slim ” and capable of
making mistakes to suit their own book. A Mel-
bourne hostess invited 25 of them to lunch.
Forty-five arrived, and the superfluous 20 had to
be billeted on the neighbors. A dame of inquir-
ing mind tried to find out by discreet pumping
whether the blunder was accidental or designed.
The middies whom she tackled understood Eng-
lish well enough till she showed her hand. At
this stage each murmured, in prim English, what
practically meant, “Me no savee.”
Last week, a stylish audience gathered to hear
Miss Doris Madden strike the ivories and Miss
Emma Sugden cuddle the strings of a violin,
alleged to have been in the family for over 100
years. (I’ve never yet known a fiddle to be less
than the full century in a family. What’s the
prejudice about the fresh Spring fiddle?) How-
ever, the two young things worked industriously
through a programme. That’s all that can be
said. Credit for music memory is given begrudg-
ingly, since it’s such a common or garden quality.
The only notable thing about the persevering
Doris Madden is her extremely sweet appearance.
She is gentle, mild, and has the clean, healthy
look of all the Madden clan, that suggests
they have lived on cream and apples all their
lives, avoiding tougher diet. It’s funny how
people develop the pork, or corned-beef, or grill
look. A smart waiter can order a dinner for any
customer to his taste. He knows the eating
appearance of the man so well.
The big political gun sometimes has a mate who
is not altogether enraptured with the pomp and
strut of officialdom. Mrs. Dick Seddon is an
instance. In this city a great weariness settled
on the dame’s intelligent face as the belltoppered
municipality and Parliament fussed round her
Richard. He of the explosive isles looked happy
enough, though he was hustled through a terrible
programme that would have exhausted a black-
smith in two breathless hours. In conversation,
Mrs. Seddon remarked, with a patient smile, that
she didn’t think, after all, she’d like next year’s
trip to the Cold Country. “I get only the one
view of London,” said the politician’s mate, and
she obviously meant the view you see through the
ranks of a deputation, or over an address or a lot
of belltoppers, or across the stone where inter-
ested persons are grinding the axe.
Last week Mrs. Gaston Mervale, the tall, pretty
life-partner of the brow-beetling mummer, boarded
the Oroya for the Cold Country. Some violet
designs and the other seasonable substitutes for
forget-me-nots were handed up to the departee
with farewell sighs. By the same liner travelled
Miss Alice Raymond and John Kurkamp for the
Great Smoke, with one break at Perth. The Kur-
kamps return under engagement to Manager
Rickards in 1907—the latter end.
I’ve been listening to mummers on the subject
of their engagements far ahead in the future, and
marvel at the entirely business-like, practical way
in which they state that in 1910 they will touch
at London for a short season, or fulfil an engage-
ment in New York somewhere about the year
1920. No sentimental view of the misty future
mars their talk. They just expect to push right
ahead with a fixed compass, and account ship-
wrecks, earthquakes, death or lesser disaster as
things not to be dreamt of in their philosophy.
The average She doesn’t look beyond a season.
The present is a sweet, beautiful joy, and to-
morrow rather to be dreaded. Growing old
doesn’t induce the sentimental to look into the
distance, except it be for a husband or a handsome
bequest.
The catmittee of one big hospital (which is most
essential to the foolish of the sex) has annoyed and
upset a rich old dame to such an extent that in
allotting the large sum to be donated to various in-
stitutions according to a late husband’s will, she
cut the establishment out altogether. That seems
a cruel bit of business—the hospital in question
deserves some consideration for the fact that
five of its patients produced a total of 10 babies
last week.
Bigjohn Forrest is back in his old Grand
Hotel quarters—looking very much agog
for things to do. How the Falstaffian Westerner
gets his bulk about with such despatch is a
marvel. See him throwing himself off a tram!
It’s an object lesson in gravitation. He alights,
bounces once like a huge ball, and is as steady a 3
a rock the next minute. He manages to smoke
more furiously, and to talk, laugh, and look and
listen in a simultaneous rush with more astonish-
ing success than any ehm Federalist. The dame
hasn’t the bulk, but she L'*sS a similar capacity for
collective hustle. It’s a rare and valuable thing
to be able to think, talk, eat, drink, and pass the
salt at the same time.
It is on the cards that the Isaac Isaacs take up
their residence at the Syme mansion for the com-
ing season of the Federal House.
The brief honeymoon is in vogue. The Fitz-
Eatrick pair were back before the hitching-up
ad been chronicled in full over the State. The
Balmains hied back to town in a still greater
hurry and are doing the cafes with as much enthu-
siasm as ever. Next, there’ll be no honeymoon
at all. Couples from the Tooraketty quarter will
remain back with the bridesmaids and save the
expenses.
Captain Fitzpatrick has rented an area of squat-
ting land in the Warrnambool district. He is
settling down to grow crops and stock and things,
with a view to making a fat fortune in the by-
and-bye. Also he has his eye on a Federal seat.
The waist is moving all over the place, borne
have it immediately under the arms—others lower
it to a line bordering on the commissariat com-
partment. Only a few conservative souls wear it
naturally—that is according to the original plan
of nature. In the coats, the moveable waist line
reaches a comic degree. A smart tripper on the
Block has it beneath her shoulders —another just
over her hips. The skittish male who wants to
administer an impromptu squeeze must have the
sense of locality strongly developed. Otherwise
he’ll make mistakes.
Mrs. Brough is looking almost her best on the
boards these Princess nights, but rather a wreck
off. She is living in the quietest quarter of the
city. Her trouble is to avoid politely the shoals
of people who want to be kind (?) to her. Friends
with good intentions are sometimes a heavy trial.
Since leaving this temporary place of pleasure,
a go-ahead Queensland matron has been startling
the folk way up North with a grotesque dinner
party. It was carried out to the extreme point of
absurdity. A chum up there sends along word of
it. One lady, as “Queen of the Cannibal Isles,”
wore black, something close and sticky, and a
string of glass beads. She had used burnt cork
on face, arms, and hands. Someone went as
“A Tiger Lily” in much the same color and
rig. “Tart in Stockings” was represented by a
fair Grace in flesh-colored garb and tartan
hose to the thigh. The picture-title—“ Sudden
Changes of Wind are Most Embarrassing
struck the top key. The guest who carried this
wild idea appeared in the room with a crinoline
tipped overhead, affording full view of the plain,
old-fashioned under-frills, elastic-side boots, and
white stockings. After this, the details are so
entirely feminine that I can quote no further.
The Rev. T. H. Taylor, whose dramatic version
of “Parsifal” is a big achievement from a
theatrical point of view, has abandoned his
Sydney pulpit for a while to give attention,
with J. C. Williamson, to the baptism in lime-
light of the play with the hungry kiss in it. He’s
rather of the John Storm type of cleric, and is
long enough and virile enough to be a crack sport.
He’d field well at cricket, and serve viciously at
tennis, and drive a long-distance ball on the golf
links, and at a bun-fight he would be a dream. In
short, he’s a breezy parson, and betrays up to this
point no conceit. He’s not the kind to hand out
his photograph with the hymn-books.
One remarkable thing about the concert epi-
demic is that trainers of the top C all (or nearly
all) tell a tale of woe. “Times are bad” is the
story dirged with monotonous dreariness. How
does the concert epidemic continue to be so
virulent if such a number of teachers languish
through long, idle hours? Aspirants must be
using an automatic voice-cultivator, which sticks
a pin in them whenever they sing false.
The Talbot epileptic colony is of fashionable
concern. It drew the quickest cash response on
record from social sets, mainly because the meet-
ings in support were held at Stonington, and the
grey Ex. had marked it her special pet cause.
The meetings are held these days in town. On
Friday last some select souls rallied at the Pianola
Hall, and Dame Talbot communicated her views
of the colony’s progress.
Mr. Norman Brookes —the tennis champion—
has launched out as a crack golfer. He took a
turn in a Victoria Club match, the other day, and
scored brilliantly. This has incited others to leave
the courts for the links, and old, seasoned wielders
of the cleeks (of both sexes) are jealously regarding
the invasion.
The military officahs of this locality are turning
their thoughts to matrimony with contagious en-
thusiasm. Another of them faces the altar in
what the song calls dreamy June —which doesn’t
dream in this country. The male applicant for
matrimony is Captain F. Wilkinson, and the girl
is Miss Violet Windsor, from the lofty Malvern
neighborhood. Another Captain, who neglected
an engagement to the same matrimonial end, is
sadly endeavoring to patch it up again, the Eden
Chant being in the air. The girl is coming round
slowly. She always does come slowly—the sex
holding the belief that a due amount of sulks and
silence is the one punishment they can inflict on
the brutes.
The Misses Whiting rounded up their smart
pals to a Bridge Tea and Guessing Competition,
the other day. Everyone thought and hoped they
had finished with the feverish brow-corrugating
guessing matches. But not so. The Whitings
have been exercising the feminine wits in com-
petition, and several other matches are on the
cards during the autumn season. It seems a
callous thing to invite flutterers to a worry of this
kind. How much happier to let them gossip and
scratch each other in the usual “At Home”
way !
There’s a sudden outbreak of she-chefs in this
State. Not only chefs —caterers! One of the
most swagger marriage-feasts of recent date was
catered for by a she-firm. This is carrying out a
general tendency to exchange callings between
the sexes. Already a few male ex-clerks and type-
writers are avenging themselves on the en-
croaching sex by plying the flower-trade, and
wiring the forget-me-not for the presentation
posy. When the he-caterers start devilling the
millinery and trimming toques with petit pois or
caviare, then the intruders may mourn over the
kitchen fire for their greed and forwardness.
They talk of needle work being a virtuous
accomplishment and quote Penelope “whose
weaving did but fill Ithaca with moths.” Yet the
voice of experience from hospitals and asylums
proclaims the needle-plying habit to be most
common among those who cultivate the undomestic
vices. “It is the one redeeming industry of many
a purple-sinning life ” —said the voice of experience
in one instance. A nurse expresses the same
opinion after many years’ knowledge of Melbourne
hospital work—that needlework is the comfort and
delight of the least virtuous of the sick. “As
soon as ever convalescence arrives, this type of
woman begs for her needlework. She’ll make any-
thing in the decorative line—borders for hankies,
doyleys, honiton and point vests, embroidery, lace
collars and cuffs. Her needles are never idle. The
highly respectable patient loafs. She likes to
read books, or to hear terrible stories of domestic
tragedy. She is curious about all the other
patients, and pesters every one of us for the story
of every complaint in the surgical calendar. ” This
sort of thing mustn’t put the charitable off the
crocheting of comforters, or the knitting of socks
for the needy. It is merely given out as a rather
surprising capsizement of a hard-shell belief.
Once the world had it, “She sews — ergo she is
virtuous.” But that doesn’t seem to be quite so.
A liking for patchwork quilts can go with a
patchwork reputation.
Nobodies are always wondering how Somebodies
manage to keep their hair so tidy, when ram falls,
winds blow and dust flies. Sedulous brushing and
much brilliantine cannot achieve the trick on
their own. False hair is the secret of the success-
ful knock-about coiffure. A woman probably has
plenty of nice thatch of her own, but the natural
product is not weather-proof. An artificial front-
crimped in a way which, if constantly ventured
upon, would ruin one’s own locks—enables its
wearer to defy the elements. For evening functions,
the switch comes into requisition. Average home-
grown hair has all it can do to cover the “ Pompa-
dour ” frame or wrap up the sausage-rolls which
constitute the basis of the erection. The Byzan-
tine plait crowning the top, or the low-knotted
device on the neck, must be provided for by pur-
chase.
BACK AT THE OLD BURROW .
Mr. Reid has been compelled to throw himself upon the
support of Freetrade Conservatism as his last refuge.
—AGE.
MRS. CONSERVATIVE: “I only see you when
there’s trouble about, and then it’s an arm or
a leg to mend”
The matrons are once more coming forward to
help on things. They are combining in various
suburbs to get the polka partners going. The
start is to be made on June 1 at Essendon.
It is the intention of Manager Rickards to look
for superior musical artists when abroad. All
the experiments in this direction of late have been
successful. “The gallery we have always with
us—all the year round, through high or low class
bills—but the circle and stalls are coy. They’re
to be attracted, it seems, by more refined shows.
Well, we’ll give them what they want. I’m
going to search for this class of thing.”
Heads were upholstered with extra magnifi-
cence for “The Dictator” first night. Most
remarkable of all top decorations was one flaunted
by Miss Mackinnon, of the Argus clan—a
sequinned and scintillating bird with high
spangled wings, which spread out from the top
coil as if about to sail out of the theatre and go
home to its French designer’s attic. As Miss
Mackinnon has just arrived from a great gad,
this elaborate percher must be fresh off the ice.
There is no chance for any considerable petti-
coat-strut in “The Dictator.” The only one to
get any kind of a turn is of Spanish cut and goes
with much dagger play in the hands of Miss
Coliier. This tempestuous foreigner has a
declamatory address, and her threats, backed by
the poniard and a pair of dangerous, agate eyes,
have a dramatically intense ring. One feels it is
good that she is on the far side of the footlights.
Two other charmers come and go with more or less
effect.
Sports rode to hounds last Saturday in a
drizzling rain. A damp State Ex. looked on,
and a very wet aide endeavored to serve fruit-
lessly as a verandah and tarpaulin tent to the
bespattered potentate. Several she - sports
braved the soaking—Miss Eileen Whiting, Mrs.
Herbert Embling, and Miss Dolly Malcolm
making the j oiliest show. All round the Oak-
lands district motor-parties and buggy-contin-
gents, from under cover, cosily watched the
throw-off, and then endeavored to keep the
hounds and followers in view from the roads.
One huntsman —Mr. Snipe—was thrown and frac-
tured his leg. And the fox cheated the hounds.
And the rain kept a-pouring. There have been
better meets.
Miss Margaret Baskerville comes home with a
great collection of her chisel and palette achieve-
ments. The one sculping Miss of this State
has dallied abroad for over a year, and
she has spent her educational jaunt care-
fully—that is, with a due regard always
to the help and inspiration each place
of call could afford her art. In Venice, Flor-
ence, Athens, and many French and Swedish
centres, Miss Baskerville plied her chisel or brush,
and the work achieved is to be on view in June.
The Yarra Society is getting its flag of welcome
ready and its scone of cheer hot.
Politician and manufacturer Billson (the voci-
ferous and breezy member for Beechworth, who is
raising a fortune on ginger-pop) has a dear bit of
peach-blossom for a daughter. At the Stonington
reception she wore all powder-pink. Powder-
pink ! And her dad a soda-water manufacturer !
Oughtn’t she to go off pop?
Monsieur Daura —a Frenchman of large fortune
meanders through the Commonwealth followed
by admiring girl glances most of his time. He
wears very beautiful clothes and the air of a prince
incog. Local French information furnishes two
cash facts—a great income and the ownership of
an extensive forest area in Franee.
Yours Affectionately, Tryphena.
There are certainly no flies on Zion when
once it starts. The first charge on which the
Melbourne Zionists have repudiated the fallen
Dowie is that he broke all the Ten Command-
ments, which seems sufficient reason to satisfy
anybody. Then, to make things dead-sure —in
case the smash of the whole Decalogue might
seem insufficient —they charged him with hypo-
crisy, criminal extravagance, embezzlement, mis-
representation, tyranny, blasphemy and dastardly
conduct. All these things, on top of ten broken
commandments, justify Zion in feeling annoyed.
Tariff Commission report on the spirit
industry finds that the present tariff —modified
at the instance of the spirit importers, whose
lobby agent, Aloy-
sius Fox, sued them
the other day for the
wages of his unpa-
triotism —has ruined
the Victorian distil-
ling industry. The
Commission proposes
higher Protection,
either by an increase
of the Customs or a
reduction of the Ex-
cise duty. It also
proposes to bring
the protective duties
on pure grape spirit
more nearly to a level
with those on malt
spirit. Duties, both
Excise and Customs,
on methylated spirit
for industrial pur-
poses, are recom-
mended for reduc-
tion—the case of the
Excise duty to prac-
tically nil : So far
as drinkable spirit is
concerned, therefore,
the Tariff Commis-
sion, composed of one-half Freetraders and one-
half Protectionists, has evolved a direct demand
for more Protection. Evidently some of the
Freetraders have found the facts of the case too
strong for them.
Last week the Australian High Court put
up a decision which was a monument of common-
sense. A publican on the outskirts of Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) was charged with selling after hours,
but the case was knocked out on the technical
point that it could only be heard at the nearest
court, and that no evidence had been tendered
to that effect. The police appealed to the
Supreme Court, and won, and the publican
appealed to the High Court. Then Chief Justice
Griffith spoke in a deep, deep voice that seemed
to rise from his boots :
In this case the appellant was charged with commit-
ting an offence at Glen Innes. That charge was heard
before the Glen Innes Court of Petty Sessions, and we are
solemnly asked to say that the court at Glen Innes ought
not to take judicial notice that Glen Innes is the nearest
place to Glen Innes. The principles of common sense are
all that is necessary to dispose of a case of that sort. In
my opinion, the decision of the Supreme Courtw as clearly
right.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
When bronchial tubes of fell catarrh
Give no uncertain hint,
The best of cures both near and far
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint.
The truth is great and will prevail—
His blessings will endure —
These are the virtues that we hail
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at l/«, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
pOs
G-O TO HBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ASTHMA CAN BE CURED.
A Noted Physician will prove this to
sufferers in Australasia.
The astonishing statement that Asthma can be
cured, coming from so well-known authority as
Dr. Rudolph Schiffmann, will be of interest to
asthma sufferers. The experience of most
Asthmatics has been that little if any relief has
been afforded them by the methods heretofore
employed, and, in fact, the disease has up to
now been regarded as incurable. This noted
physican has, however, after a lifelong study of
Asthma and kindred diseases, discovered a remedy
which not only instantly relieves the severest
cases of Asthma and Bronchitis, but has actually
cured thousands whose cases had been pronounced
incurable. So complete is Dr. Schiffmann’s
confidence in his remedy that he requests this
paper to announce that he offers to send a liberal
sample package of “Schiffmann’s Asthma Cure
free of charge to all persons sending him their
name and address, plainly written on a post-card,
within the next four days.
He believes that an actual test will be the most
convincing, and, in fact, the only way to overcome
the natural prejudice of thousands of Asthmatics
who have heretofore sought relief in vain. Al-
though most chemists in Australasia l\', v e sold his
Asthma Cure ever since it was inf .duced to the
public, still the doctor fears the .- are some persons
who have never heard of and it is with a view
to reaching these that he makes this liberal
offer. ,
An opportunity to test, without cost, a remedy
so celebrated and promising so much, certainly
should be eagerly grasped by every sufferer.
Address Dr. R. Schiffmanns Depot, JNos. 5
and 7 Barrack-street, Sydney.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS,
BSU
V
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
'Bali Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
2SI Georee.St:
(ovv.' llunter Sfcji
and at cor. Lonsdale & Swanston Sts., Mejboj^flg^
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Stinking Fish party should become
infamous as the advocate of the Hate Ours
System.
The Stinking Fish party evidently bases
its vain imaginings about Australia on a misread-
ing of the late Solomon—“ Her children shall
arise up and call her cuss&d.”
“ Well, what did you think of your recep-
tion here? Had a good time, eh?” asked a
prominent citizen of one of the brown men, leav-
ing Melbourne. “Yairs; good time,” was the
reply. “We think you ’fraid of us ! ”
Australian Foreign-traders carefully affect
to misunderstand Seddon’s declaration in favor of
a “ free breakfast table ” for Maoriland. Seddon
doesn’t propose to lift the duty on a single article
that will come into competition with local
industry.
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE.
Mr. Reid is willing to sink the Fiscal issue. — Freetrade
daily announcement.
GEORGE : “ N-not that I’m at all af-f-f-fraid,
Alfred. But if you'll throw away that nasty
old sword of yours I'll do the same.”
ALFRED THE AFFABLE : “ Sorry I can’t oblige
you, Georgie .”
The uncivil and cantankerous Prophecy of
General French that a South Australian waster
would get the Commonwealth. military command,
instead of it going to some British officer like the
one who suffered from temporary demoralisa-
tion” in South Africa and accepted a bribe of
£2OO, has not yet been realised. But this paper
trusts that Defence Minister Playford is sticking
to his guns, and that the appointment of some
Australian who hasn t suffered from temporary
demoralisation will shortly be announced.
It sounds inctedible, yet it is submitted
as a fact, that the Victorian police authorities,
when pressing for a sentence, count a “charge”
of lunacy as a “previous offence.” There is no
telling when a man may get an extra three years
in Victoria for having once been suspected of the
mumps.
It is ridiculous to say, as the Tories do,
that N.S.W. Parliament of to-day is, because of
payment of members, less esteemed than the early
Legislatures. No Parliament of the half century
was so despised and vilified by its contemporaiy
public as was the first. Even W. O. Wentworth
longed to strangle his offspring.
About the prize jest of Vampire Day was
that schoolmaster who wrote to a Sydney paper
complaining that some of his brethren made the
grievous error last Vampire Day of talking to the
kids about “patriotism” (which was quite wrong)
instead of “imperialism” (which was the correct
object and had nothing patriotic about it). Why
give away the show like this ?
Last week N.S.W. started, in a small way,
that general system of Local Government for
which it has waited so long. Temporary coun-
cillors are appointed to hold office until shire
elections can be held, and the temporaries are to
meet, and do a little work in a small, tentative
way to get their hands in—to put a penn’orth of
grease on the machine so to speak, and to see how
it revolves.
The liquor law seems pretty sudden in
Westralia. A Kalgoorlie solicitor of an arid dis-
position, who had a prohibition order against him,
was last week fined £1 for hanging about in the
neighborhood of an hotel and looking as if he in-
tended to drink if he got the chance. And he
might have been only admiring the scenery. Some
of the finest scenery in the world is in the neigh-
borhood of hotels.
Two more of Tait’s railway trucks broke
away from their train at Bendigo (Vic.) the other
day. They smashed through five gates before
they stopped on a hillside and started to roll back
again. As usual, “ two shunters were suspended.”
Nothing can equal the joyful speed with which
Tait suspends two shunters when anything goes
wrong.
A witness told the Tariff Commission, last
week, that both manufacturers and employees, at
a meeting, had unanimously decided to ask Par-
liament not to reduce the duty on brush-making
material:
Australian brushes were equal to anything imported,
and were sold 20 per cent, cheaper... At the present time,
he found a difficulty in disposing of imported brushes,
painters generally preferring the Australian made.
Which is cheering.
The State Frights people, who are pretend-
ing to be greatly stirred in soul about the grading
of butter by the Australian authorities, have as an
argument started the lie that the compulsory
system in Bananaland has not been a success.
The reports of local officers, of factory managers,
and of London merchants stand in distinct con-
tradiction. Not only has the price realised for
Queensland butter in the Cold Country increased,
but the percentage of condemned butter has been
reduced to a minimum. So there is a double gain.
“Itan”: The
“ Black Rod ” foolish-
ness still exists in the
Queensland House of
Fossils, but only to a
limited extent ; the
chief clerk black-rods
when necessary in ad-
dition to his penpush-
ing duties, and does
the two jobs for £4OO
a year. Also, there is
no longer a sergeant-
at-arms in the Assem-
bly, where the clerk-
assistant is supposed to
lay down his pen and
take up an aggressive
attitude when disorder
supervenes. He gets
£450 a year and is
“ Hon.” During the
last two sessions he
hasn’t been required
to mobilise himself on
the battlefield, but once
he threw out about six
members—at least, they
defied him to lay hands
on them, and walked
out while he trotted
behind them and said
“Shoo!” and “Scat”
and “ Gee up ! ” Bana-
naland dispenses with
the flummery of a mili-
tary pageant when the
session closes, although
the House of Fossils
still insists on having
an armed man or two
on view at the opening of proceedings, and
messages from the Governor are still delivered
by an A.D.C., in gold lace and whirling feathers.
Last week George Reid and some other
people of no real importance met in Sydney to
state that if Ireland received anything like the
same self-government that N.S.W. enjoys the
Empire would bust. The meeting didn’t matter
in the least, and The Bulletin is too much
pressed for space this week to worry about trifles.
“Vulcan”: The West Australian Bank
signifies its fat, Tory horror of Socialism by
blankly refusing Leederville (Perth) Council an
extended overdraft, because the municipality
entertains the Socialistic proposal of erecting
workmen’s dwellings on its endowment lands.
And from a purely Fat standpoint, Fat is right.
Fat’s “private enterprise” bank gathers a good
deal of its comfortable dividends from mortgages
on property ; but if the low working classes begin
thus to obliterate the private landlord, Fat’s best
client, who calls, with a terrace in his pocket, for
a small “ temporary accommodation,” will fade
away.
GEORGE’S MAGNANIMITY.
He looked upon Mr. Deakin as one of the great figures
in Australian politics. Up to the very last moment he
(Mr. Reid) would not listen to a suggestion that was not
compatible with the highest chivalry on the part of that
distinguished man.—“ Yes-No ”at the Women’s League.
Reid: “Dill, Dill, Dill; come and be fed 1’
Deakin : “ Yes; but what have you got in your
other hand ? ”
Bigjohn Forrest did Australia a good turn
when he lifted up his large voice in opposition to
. the Imperial Defence Committee’s proposal to
dismantle the fort at Albany and leave King
George’s Sound unprotected. The harbor is one of
the best in Australia, and an enemy landing there
could, with guns from his fleet, make it almost im-
pregnable and then pour troops into Westralia
’and mop up the Goldfields at leisure. More than
half the oversea trade of Australia goes past
Albany, and an enemy lodged there could be
eminently uncivil. The coastal defence of Aus-
tralia isn’t much to blow about at any time, but it
is hardly good enough to give up a large slice of
what we have got just because the Imperial
Defence Committee thinks so. Anyhow Big-
john says “it would be absurd, ridiculous,
farcical to dismantle the forts,” and Bigjohn is an
obstinate man.
“0.” writes in bitterness :■ —
“Disgusted” complains (26/4/’O6) about ha treatment
by the N.S.W. Public Service Board. He seems to be in-
experienced. He’s either in tho Public Service or he’s
not. If not, so much the better. The next time lie
applies he should state that he is employed on one of the
newspapers that support Carruthers. He can say that he
is a Manure or Egg expert, or Umpire of the Hen Com-
petitions, or something. Then a strange accident will
happen. It will be discovered that no man within the
service is competent to fill the position, and “ Disgusted ”
will be appointed. If he is in the service already, and is
sufficiently stupid, and no newspaper man applies, he
•will probably be appointed. If he happens to be an in-
telligent man, then his case is hopeless unless he can get
over it and acquire a dullness which borders on imbe-
cility.
A self-satisfied person named Huie bom-
bards the Sydney press with half a column of
questions, which Prime Minister Deakin is re-
quested to advertise the complacent one by
replying to. Three as samples :
(1) Will he explain how an increase of 26 per cent, in
the cost of the food supply of the people of New South
Wales since the adoption of the Barton tariff has bene-
fited us?
(2) As three-fourths of the wealth produced by Austra-
lians is from the primary industries, and is sold at the
world’s prices, is it fair to ask them to carry some of the
manufacturers on their shoulders?
(3) Will he enlighten us as to how duties on food,
clothes, tools, and machinery will help the dairy farmer
to get a better price for his butter, the wheatgrower
more for his wheat, the pastoralist more for his wool and
mutton, and the miner more for the mineral he wins by
his labor?
Boiled down, Huie holds that (1) Barton, by fix-
ing the tariff, raised the price of food ; (2) the
world —not Barton —rfixes the price of Australian
food. Further, 26 per cent, increase in prices
is bad (see No. 1). But in No. 3 Huie demands a
further increase of prices, because it is good. So,
after saying in question No. 1 that Protection has
raised food prices, and in question No. 2 that food
prices are fixed by the world’s markets, and not
by local Protection, Huie asks in No. 3 why in
thunder Protection doesn’t do the thing that he
alleges in No. 1 it has already done.
Fairbairn, M.L.A. (Vic.), recently led a
deputation to Premier Bent to tell him that the
voluntary system of lands resumption was yielding
splendid results (to the landlords), and that any
attempt at compulsory resumption would drive
capital out of the country, and lead to general de-
moralisation. About this stage he let his excite-
ment carry him away, and said : “An atmosphere
of bribery always hangs round the Lands De-
partment. ” Bent sat like an obelisk, and
said coldly that he had never heard of any
corruption in the Vic. Lands Office. Fairbairn
after a feeble attempt to argue the point, said
that he hadn’t either, and that he had been think-
ing of N.S.W. improvement leases. They both
agreed to ignore dozens of well-known Victorian
land stenches, and to hold that everything in the
garden was lovely. Still Fairbairn shouldn’t talk
like that in his unguarded moments. He opposed
compulsory purchase for closer settlement. He
also sold an estate to the Government on the
voluntary principle at a very high price, and he
might have noticed moral stenches at the Lands
Office while he was round there collecting the
enormous sum of money. Then Ritchie, M.L.0.,
rose up and told Bent that if he would abolish
the microscopic land-tax which they pay at pre-
sent, the rich, greedy, unpatriotic landlords of
Victoria would be greatly obliged. And Bent
breathed heavily as he told this amazingly cheeky
person that he had no doubt on the subject—none
at all.
“ Caber ” : He Allan M‘Lean’s boast that
he could remember the time when there was no
question in politics between employer and em-
ployed (B. 10/5/’O6). If Allan can cast his memory
that far back, it’s time he retrenched himself from
the political world. I remember stumping a
Queensland electorate in 1873, and the night before
polling day the manager told his em-
ployees : —“The man who votes for
(meaning me) to-morrow clears
off this station.” I got two votes out
of 19—two scalpers, who could make
as much money on the next run.
Capital and labor certainly agreed
splendidly when the employee’s only politi-
cal right consisted in scoring out the name of the
Candidate whose election would do him most good.
Newton Moore, the new Premier of Wes-
tralia, makes a very moderate kind of a beginning;
He promises economy, a land-tax (apparently not
graduated), a redistribution of the franchise fot
the elective House of Landlords, and a lot of large*
medium and small devices for encouraging settle-
ment, which are all good ideas, though most of
them are not so good as they might be. He looks
with considerable calmness on an anticipated
deficit, which isn’t so good. And he proposes
to cheerfully borrow another £1,000,000 or
£1,500,000, which is awful.
“Vulcan” : One of the humorous and
costly results of the importing curse of which a
suffering public carefully doesn’t hear.. Got in the
train at an Illawarra line (N.S.W.) station recently,
and fell over a man chipping away the stone edge
of the platform. We conversed. “It’s them
Baldwins,” he said. “Jist got a noo batch out
from ’Merica, but they made ’em too wide, an’
we’ve got to cut away the platforms before they
can run ’em.” We employ foreign workmen to
build our engines on the score of cheapness, then
have to alter the platforms of a whole line to
accommodate our
bargain! Probably
the carriage steps
will later have to
be widened to fit
the reduced plat-
forms ! ! And this
is cheapness !!!
RECRIMINATION.
Mr. Deakin says it is not true that he approached Mr
Reid with a proposal to upset the Labor Government.
“it was Mr. Reid who approached me, through one of
his lieutenants, several times before I consented to meet
him.”
REID AND DEAKIN (in the same breath): “'Twas
’im! ”
The British War-Stores Commission con-
tinues to receive unsavory evidence. Lieut.-
Colonel Hamnett, of the Army Service Corps,
admits that he received £2OO from the Meyer firm
of contractors, and says that he was “ temporarily
demoralised.” 'Suppose that Australia doesn t
break away from the habit of importing its boss
army men, what are the odds against it getting a
temporarily-demoralised person as commander-in-
chief ?
BALLADE OF THE EX-M.P.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
No more I dread the Speaker’s frown,
Or tremble at the party Whip,
Or moon about the dingy town,
My heart upon a country trip ;
The iron hand has loosed its grip ;
The captive from his chain is free,
And like a happy child I skip—
A sacked M.P.
No more can any Smith or Brown,
At public meetings jeer or quip,
While I, who yearn to slay the clown,
Endure it with a smiling lip.
I have the villains by the hip
To whom of old I bowed the knee;
What joy to give them all the slip—
An ex-M.P.
No more my desk is Weighted down
With begging letters that would strip
My pockets of the last half-crown
And leave me without purse or scrip*
Within my rival’s pockets dip
The hands that once applauded me.
The wine of leisure now I sip—
No more M.P.
The letters once did spell renown,
The sight of them now harrows me.
I follow Freedom’s flying gown—
A freed M.P.
W.A.P.


BUY A
Lipp
Piano
If you want the
Best German Piano
imported.
Lipp Pianos have
been sold in Aus-
tralia by us for over
35 years.
They are the most
Popular Pianos on
the market
Thousands of Lipp
Pianos have been
sold and given un-
qualified satisfac-
tion.
Pure in tone, and
built to last a life-
time.
*
Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
*
Old Pianos taken in
exchange and full value
allowed.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
A Fine
Violin
£1 :11 : f'
©*« ••STUDENT'S”
MODEL.
Complete witH Bow*
Case* Resin and Set
q f Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
'Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.*
SYDNEY.
15he
Victor
Piano
Has proved its popu-
larity by the enormous
number of orders we
have received.
We sold last year over 400
Victor Pianos.
If you want the Best
Piano made and sold at
a Low Price,
Buy a
VICTOR *
and you will have a
Piano that will give you
every satisfaction.
Made in 3 models, and sold
on Easy Terms.
Send for Catalogues.
JET
PALING'S
338 Georg'e-st.,
Sydney.
VAX
\
BOOKS *
WORTH
READING
the£soo book. SANDY’S SELECTION By STEELE RUDD.
With 40 Illustrations by the leading Black and White Artists of Australia.
Press unanimous that this is one of the Best Australian Books ever published.
“As a lively, crisp statement of the life of an Australian selector, it rings true.”— The Daily Telegraph.
“ ‘ Sandy’s Selection ’ will be read with interest by the many admirers of this promising author.”— The
Sydney Morning Herald.
“ You can’t do better than to fill yourselves up with the adventures of Sandy.”— The Queensland Grazier.
“ The reader will laugh almost to exhaustion over the absurdities presented, but he will understand that
there is something beneath the fooling.”— Melbourne Leader,
THE BOOK OF THE SEASON, STEVE BROWN’S BUNYIP
AND OTHER STORIES, By JOHN A. BARRY. With Introductory Verses by Rudyard Kipling.
Price 2s 6d. Postage, 6d extra.
HOW McDOUGALL TOPPED THE SCORE
AND OTHER VERSES AND SKETCHES By THOS. E. SPENCER.
With Portrait and 12 full-page illustrations by Lionel Lindsay and H. W. Cotton.
Full Cloth, Price 3s. 6d.; Post Free 6d. extra.
To those in search of first-class recitations, warranted to “ bring down the house,” this book will be a godsend.
THREE YEARS WITH THUNDERBOLT
Edited by AMBROSE PR A TT. Illustrated. Price, Paper 2/6, Cloth 3/6. Postage 6d extra.
S.M. Herald says: “The bushranging career of Frederick Ward (otherwise known as ‘ Thunderbolt’)
contains many points of interest. Ward’s daring and recklessness, not less than his consummate horsemanship,
commend the story to persons who love this kind of reading. Mr. Pratt loses no opportunity of bringing out
the redeeming features of ‘Thunderbolt’s’ character, and treats with much dramatic power his varying
adventures ‘on the read.’”
OTHER BOOKS HAVING AN EXTENSIVE SALE ARE
« THE COLORED CONQUEST,” by Rata. Illustrated. Price Is, post free 1/2.
Showing how the colored races captured the world. Forecasts the blacks rising in South Africa.
“ RIVERFALL,” by Porter. Illustrated. Price Is, post free Is 2d.
A love story with a strong touch of the socialistic element. This story, in America, reached a total sale of
250,000 copies. Edward Bellamy (author of “ Looking Backward ”) wrote that “It is one of the best
stories ever written.”
FOUNTAIN PENS. Value for Money.
“THE BOOKSTA LL. ’ '—Made of the best Para rubber, nicely finished, fitted with 14-carat gold nib
(guaranteed), and tipped with iridium. Money returned if found not satisfactory. Worth 10s 6d.
° Ul fi tWe’b UN YIP. ’’—Best quality vulcanite case, fitted with heavy 14-carat gold nib (guaranteed),
iridium tipped and twin feed. Equal to any guinea pen on the market.
NIBS. —Fine, Medium, Broad.
Thousands of POST CARD ALBUMS, POST CARDS, and BIRTHDAY CARDS
stocked. Send for Lists.
flarAny book reviewed, noticed or advertised can be supplied at bedrock prices.
Kindly address order THE CASHIER,
00 11V1SM009 M S N
476 George St.,
Sydney.
UNLOCKING THE LANDS.
The Midland Railway Company of Western Australia
LIMITED
are now subdividing their concession of
2,500,000 Acres,
Comprising some of the finest AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING COUNTRY in the State of
Western Australia, into FARMS and GRAZING PROPERTIES.
THE FIRST SALE of
ONE HUNDRED SPLENDID FARMS, and
MOORA and KOOGAN TOWN SITES
Will be held by Public Auction at the QUEEN’S HALL,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA, on
FRIDAY, JUNE 22nd, at 2.30 P .m.,
BY
JAMBS GARDINER, Auctioneer.
r pHESE FARMS are situated from 96 to 108 Miles from PERTH, the Capital City of Western
j Australia, fronting and served by the Company’s own railway. None of them are more than
4 miles from railway station or sidings—with a very convenient train service.
RICH AGRICULTURAL and GRAZING LANDS. 19 to 22in. RAINFALL.
Good Roads. RED FRIABLE SOIL, Easily Tilled. GREAT FATTENING COUNTRY.
The Concession is situated between the METROPOLIS and the GREAT MURCHISON
GOLDFIELDS.
Western Australia imported last year £1,500,000 worth of Land Products.
FARMERS—COME AND SEE ! and let the Land speak for itself.
AVERAGE YIELDS for Country separated from this by only the Railway Line, for 1905-6
WHEAT, 20 Bushels; HAY, 30| Cwt.
WATER easily obtained and conserved. NO HEAVY CLEARING.
UPSET PRICES fixed from 6s to 40s per acre. ALL UPSETS marked on the Plan.
The whole of the Blocks will be offered by Public Auction, and sold to the highest bidder at or
above the Upset Price fixed.
TERMS —Ten per cent. Cash Deposit; Balance by 15 equal Annual Payments, bearing
Interest at 4 per cent. The balance of the purchase-money can be paid off at any time, and a rebate
of interest wul be allowed at the rate charged ; or purchaser may pay Cash.
On payment of the whole of the purchase-money the TITLE is guaranteed by the Western
Australian Government. POSSESSION given the day after the Sale.
If you intend inspecting, send a wire either to the office of the Company or to the Auctioneers,
stating by what steamer you are coming, and you will be met, and every facility will be given
for inspection.
If you have not received an Illustrated Pamphlet, giving the fullest particulars, send a Post
Card addressed to GORDON AND GOTCH, SYDNEY, and one will be sent you by return of
post, free of charge.
JAMES GARDINER, Auctioneer,
Howard Street, PERTH, W.A.
0R THE MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY
OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA, Limited,
293 St. George's Terrace, PERTH, W.A.


Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Rheumatism.
Confined to Her Bed and Unable to Lift
Hand or Foot Without Excruciating
Pain. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Give Almost Immediate Relief.
“Six years ago, while residing at Wyong,”
writes Mrs. Elizabeth Levett, of Liverpool,
N.S.W., “I contracted rheumatism through
getting a severe chill from exposure to heavy rain,
and was confined to my bed for some considerable
time. I could not lift a hand to my head or move
a joint. The slightest movement would cause
agonising pain. In the legs and feet especially
the pain was excruciating, and I would scream out
if I moved an inch. A friend of mine, a Mrs.
Chapman, one day' recommended Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, as she knew a man who had
suffered for nine years, and was cured by them.
As I had wasted pounds iq trying to obtain relief,
but witiiout avail, I determined to follow her
advice, and procured a bottle as a cure. I had not
finished it when I felt easier and the inflammation
seemed to subside. At the same time my appetite
increased, and with continued treatment at the
end of a few months I was able to get about again,
and I began to pick up in condition, recovering
rapidly the suppleness of limb. When the weather
threatens a renewal of the old symptoms I have
recourse to the old remedy, in fact, I would not be
without them in the house. I recommend them to
all my friends, and I firmly believe them to be a
first class remedy for all ailments arising from de-
rangement of the system. I have much pleasure
in making this statement, hoping my experience
may benefit others.” Those who suffer from any
form of rhematism, lumbago, sciatica, or neuralgia,
should use Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment,
in conjunction with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. These two remedies have been highly
successful in all kinds of rheumatism, because one
cleanses the blood of all poisonous substances that
cause the disease, increasing the activity of the
blood-making glands, while the powerful, penetra-
ting influences of the liniment, acting through the
pores of the skin on the nerves, bones and muscles,
overcome the pain by relieving the effect on the
delicate nerves, causing the circulation of the blood
to be maintained through the affected parts.
Rheumatism, lumbago, and sciatica all yield to the
powerful, penetrating, and conquering properties
of Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment if used
in conjunction with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. Obtainable at all chemist’s and stores, or
post free on receipt of price (pills Is. l|d., 6 bottles
6s. 6d. ; liniment 2s. 6d., 6 bottles 13s. 6d), from
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney.*
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
S _
E. BESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS,
The Melbourne end of the cricket difficulty re-
mains much as it was. The M. 0.0. is busy trying to rope
in as many minor clubs as it can get, and is endeavoring
to start others to take the places of those that stick to
the V.C.A. So far, it is succeeding very badly. It has
captured South Melb., Richmond, Port Melb., Williams-
town, Coburg, Malvern, and possibly Brighton—South
and itself being the only first-rate clubs. Against these
the V.C.A. holds the allegiance of East Melb., North
Melb., Carlton, Fitzroy, Hawksburn (Premiers), St.
Kilda, University, and probably Essendon. Also such
powerful juniors as Collingwood, La Mascotte, Northern
District, etc., still stand by the V.C.A. Mixed up
with this is the district or electorate cricket trouble.
What is wanted to make the game vigorous once more is
district cricket, so planned that the controlling body
would pick and choose from three classes—State school
boys, juniors and seniors. But district cricket means
practically squelching the M.C.C. as a competing team ;
while at the very bottom of all the uproar is the M.C.C.’s
determination to bluff itself into the position occupied by
the Marylebone C.C. in Cold Country cricket. The
M.C.C. is willing to run district cricket providing it is
allowed to stand outside and act the part of
godfather, wet-nurse, stepfather and profir-taker—es-
pecially profit-taker. But the strong clubs.still forming
the V.C.A. and the juniors (like La Mascotte) recollect
lhat for years few players have had a hope,of getting into
inter state or international teams unless thfev belonged to
the M.C.C. Wherefore they want to fall on the M.CtC.’s
neck and break it in four places. As to the M.C.C.’s
yearning to emulate the Marylebone C.C., the
Melbourne bosses forget that they are not the
whole show. The biggest profits from international
matches have always come from Sydney. As for the
M.C.C.’s apparent intention to regard the disqualified
NiS. Wales players as N.S. Wales, well—some score of
years ago, when Notts county was the.premier English
Cricket team by the grace of Shaw, Morley, ShCrwin,
Barnes, Shrewsbury, Selby, and Gunn, those seven
players went on strike, thinking to force their committee
to back down. But the committee didn’t back.
Some of the players were ultimately taken into the fold,
others remained outside permanently. The county
suffered for a year or two, but as good, if not better, hieii
arose later. The Age is straining all its nerves barracking
for the M.C.C., while the Argus has assumed a discreet
position on the top of the fence.
* * *■ *
The claim of Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees
for representation on the Board of Control is
humorous. Usually it is the gentlemen who pay the
cost who run the show, and the Cricket Ground’s
only share in cricket has been to wax fat on it.
Here is the way the Ground charged for the use of its
pitch when the Warner Team was here. The total
cash takings at the gates were materially re-
duced by the fact that the Cricket Ground
Trustees issued members’ tickets for the English
matches at 10s. each. Also, they had the ad-
vantage of 4000 members’ and 8000 ladies’" sub-
scriptions to the ground in the ordinary way. The
total cash takings for the two Tests and the Ist and
2nd State matches were £10,200 14s. Of this sum
Sydney Cricket Ground charged £2821 for the use of the
bit of land, and a further £553 16s. Bd. for the ser-...
vices of gatemen, attendants and incidentals, or
a total of £3374 16s. Bd., over 33 per cent. This
in addition to the profits of all the half-sovereign
members they had admitted, and for whom Warner, later
On, foolishly blamed the Cricket Association. The ex-
penses of advertising, players’ keep, and travelling,
umpires, etc., which came to £lO9O 17s. Id., were paid by
the Association. Then Marylebone C.C. had to receive
£3689 13s. Od. So the Association, which took
the risk and did all the work, got only £2045
net profit, or £776 less than the Cricket Ground, which
had already reaped a huge harvest through its 10s. mem-
bership tickets. Presumably if the Cricket Ground Trus-
tees get representation on the Board they will stand a
share of the £llOO expenses, and give up the practice of
admitting 10s. members.
* * * *
Speaking at Brisbane (Q.), Victor Trumper
remarked that he knew he and others with him were
going to be suspended immediately they arrived
in Sydney, from which it is fairly understandable
that the gang of swelled-head players is going to hang
together. Just at present matters are in abeyance,
and will probably remain so till the N.S.W. Cricket
Association sets to work to revise its rules. A totally
new set of circumstances has arisen, and the Association
must pass fresh legislation to deal with it. Probably
Trumper is not alarmed at the prospect of his
services not being* required by the N.S.W. Cricket
Association, as it is understood that his first effort
at private enterprise cricket has proved fairly remunera-
tive. But private enterprise cricket can only he success-
ful if it can compete with district cricket; and, as
Trumper well knows, at present the various cricket
associations have no power to prevent district
clubs playing against private teams. With the advent
of new legislation, cricket ventures such as that just
concluded by Trumper will be an absolute impossibility.
District teams will not be allowed to meet them, and the
gilded vista Trumper and Co. see opening before them will
shut sudden-like. It is said that certain of the
already suspended cricketers regard the suspension as a
joke, and cheerfully remark that the Association has no
power to fix a definite term of disqualification against
them, and must remove the embargo imme-
diately they choose to abandon their agreement with
the Melbourne Club. When the rules are revised,
as they will be shortly, these folk will find them-
selves passed out for a definite period, one or two years—
one year is an absolute certainty. A portion of the daily
press has been advocating a “ compromise.” Which is
lunacy.
• * •* *
The Melbourne Cricket Club is gradually sur-
rounding the playing ground with buildings. The grand
stand at present being erected is a very high structure on
the west side of the ground. It will be sundown there
quite early in the afternoon now. The light will some-
times be bad before 5 p.m. The eastern side of the
ground is, as yet, clear. The future hours of cricket on
the Melbourne ground will probably be from 10 a.m. to
4 p.m., or thereabouts. The new grand stand represents
in itself a whole early-closing movement.
* * *
Harry Trott has started, in the London Daily
Express, a series of yarns about “Cricketers I Have
Met.” They are not likely to add to his popularity. All
his own companions in the field were the dearest fellows
” in the world ; Cut—Bonnor was conceited alike about his
play, his singing, and his good looks ; Giffen undertook to
cali Warner to account, and funked it when they met
face to face the next morning; Blackham was “ the most
superstitious cricketer who ever handled a bat ” ; and
Lyons was a consistent braggart. The fine old chestnut
of “ No, I’m not out, but I’m going out ” is told by a San
Francisco man who had to face Jones. It was in a
Leicestershire match that Giffen, being allowed to act as
captain in Trott’s absence, bowled all day, from 11.30 to
5.30, and then, a change being mildly recommended to
him, substituted Trumble for Eady at the other end.
(A better and more likely version of this story says that
Giffen “ changed ” to the other end himself.)
« * * *
“0.K.” : Re the average length of life of first-
class cricketers, and the suggestion that their athletic
exercise wears them out before their time. I fancy that
beer has a powerful influence on the death-rate among
English cricketers. Looking back at a number of pros,
who visited Australia within the past 25 years, and sub-
sequently died before they were 50, they mostly figure in
my mind’s eye with a pint pewter-measure in the right
hand. They were thirsty men of the ale and hearty kind.
Any one of 20 of them might have been the hero of the
story which is usually attached to the name of George
Ulyett. George, returning to the pavilion after an hour
or two at the wickets, was invited to try a pint of beer.
He tried it, and held out the pewter to be re-filled.
When the second pint had passed into his interior George
wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and said in a
soliloquial tone, “ I du like them long beers out of a
tankard.” Then he looked round for another pint.
* • • •
Sydney Rugby had a blue-grey atmosphere on
Saturday, and the temperature was high for the game. The
result was that the weaker teams broke up badly towards
the end. This was very noticeable in the case of the
University, the students were dog-tired midway through
the second half. Western Suburbs were also quite worn
out. The round left Eastern Suburbs still at the head of
the list, but by a reduced margin, its draw with Newtown
having reduced its lead to one point. Glebe, North
Sydney', and South Sydney are all level at second place.
Glebe scored the bye ; North Sydney downed Western
Suburbs by nine to nil, and South Sydney walloped St.
George 16 to eight. Sydney and University played a draw,
and unfortunate Manly again went down —this time to
Balmain, which won by 15 to five.
The feature of the afternoon was the upheaval
of Sydney. In the first half the University forwards were
fast as the wind, and the line kicking of the backs
suggested that Mackenzie, Oxenham, . and Futter
had range-finders fitted to their feet. The
superiority of the blue and gold was more
apparent than real, however, for although the Uni-
versity charges seemed to sweep through the black ranks,
something always went wrong before the. line was
reached. The Blacks had the physical strength. All the
same, at half time the Uni. was leading with eight to
three. The Sydney captain put his finger on the spot.
“ They get the leather out too quickly for vis. Must
break’em up ! ” And he did. He used the Maoriland
scrum, and made Englishman Swannell a winger, and
that astute Briton came rushing round the scrum and
' interfered with the work of the University half-backs,
This broke up the ’Varsity machine. Then the students’
strength gave out, and the barrackers ceased to shout as
the Blacks, keeping the leather close, dribbled down on
to the Uni. line, and then heeled to the backs. The kick-
ing of the Uni. backs saved the situation again and again,
but those compact rushes were bound to tell, and Sydney
scored eight while University made only three. Just as
time was running out the University made a most
picturesque attempt to score. It was a beautifully
worked-up charge. Beating Swannell on the heel out,
the University half-back set going a five-man pass. It
swept across the ground past the bewildered forwards,
past the racing backs, and only the sturdy full-back stood
between Uni. and victory. It was Fisher who carried the
leather-he fended, he evaded, but the thunder of the
feet behind him scared him and distracted his attention,
and Backhouse grabbed his leg. He tore - himself free,
but stumbled and fell. It was a penalty kick, of course,
but it failed, and then the whistle blew, leaving the score
11 all.
Other matches also drew big attendances. In
the struggle between South Sydney and St. George the
Illawarra men played a splendid forward game. South
Sydney tried to get its backs going, but the Saints fell on
the leather like tigers, and the premiers were unable to
get it out to the backs. But once the Souths got past
the Saints’ forwards it was all over, for the Illawarra
backs were notin the same street as their forwards. Their
lack of combination also prevented them making use of
the opportunities the forwards created for them. A
little Socialism among the backs and St. George will be
among the best of men. Eastern Suburbs did not play
with its accustomed dash, and the exhibition was-
dreary. The Eastern Suburbs backs played a fine defen-
sive game, and their sure tackling and line kicking were
the only bright things about the proceedings, excepting the
cheerful disregard of the rules by both sides when they
felt that way. There were no special frills about the
other matches.
One sad feature of Sydney Rugby is the lack of
improvement in the play. The men are in better condi-
tion, but they do not seem to improve in the theory and
practice of Rugby. The teams that started with bad
backs have got them still, and seem to be developing
chronic lumbago, so to speak. The trouble with the
majority of the passing rushes seen on Sydney football
fields is that they just carry the game from one side of
the ground to the other, and get no nearer the gaol-line.
All of which is just vain effort and waste of energy. The
secret of the trouble is that the men rely upon dumb-
bells and running exercise and a little boxing (which
comes in handy in the scrums, sometimes) to make them
footballers—and it doesn’t. It only makes them good
material out of which first-class Rugbyites could be made
by an efficient trainer or coach.
Sydney Soccer competition is apparently being
run on a system of pairs. Here is how the list stands :
Glebe and Pyrmont are in front with eight points each,
Balmain and Rozelle follow with six each, Ultimo and
Granville run third with two each, and South Sydney
and Sydney bring up the rear with the sign of the drake
on their jerseys. Glebe and Balmain put up a splendid
game at Epping on Saturday afternoon, but Glebe
was an easy best. The finished quality of its play, its
perfect forward combination, its reliable back defence,
and its excellent shooting enabled it to beat the formid-
able Balmain team by two to nil. Rozelle beat Sydney by
four to nil, chiefly through penalty kicks awarded for
breaches of the rules by the Sydney men.
* * * *
Australian football in Sydney usually provides
at least one tremendous debacle every week end,
and on Saturday last Paddington took the part of
the turkey, and was carved up by Sydney—l 63 points to
nine. Y.M.C.A., which seems to have lost its skill of a
couple of seasons ago, went dowm before Balmain, which
won by 46 to 22 points. East Sydney started well against
Redfern, but its kicking was deplorable, and the Red-
ferners won- by 68 to 57 points. North Sydney brought
along a rather scratch team against Newtown, and the
result was disastrous, Newtown winning by 85 to 15.
This leaves Newtown still at the top of the poll with 16 com-
petition points. Redfern, Sydney and Balmain are
abreast in the second line with 12 points.
. *, * - *- *
Around Melbourne, on Saturday* various squads
of 36 men and some umpires assembled on certain quag-
mires, and slithered and slid about in a (mostly vain)
attempt to persuade a lump of leather between two
posts. Some 18,000 or 20,000 persons stood under um-
brellas at Victoria Park and persuaded themselves they
were watching a football match between Carlton and
’Wood; but there was no football anywhere in
Melbourne that day—it was just, a slippery, greasy
scuffle. The results gave Carlton the victory over
’Wood, Melbourne over South, Saints over Essendon
—the two latter being surprises . that would excjte
sniff but that the weather may have had something to do
with the matter. Fitzroy travelled to Geelong, where
the moisture was more pronounced, and splodged steadily
and stolidly through the mire—and incidentally over the
Geelong team. In the Association games, the two
leading clubs—West Melb. and Williamstown—met for the
first time, and indulged in a strenuous Squires an’ Murphy
sort of game. Nobody was killed, but a ’Town player got
such a vicious hug round the neck that he had to be
carried off the ground, and, the game being stopped for a
while, the crowd jumped to the conclusion that hjs neck
was broken. But it turned out to be only wrenched, and
the spectators waited patiently till the argument was re-
sumed. The Metropolitan Association team (University),
which the League refused to admit, emphasised its
strength by walloping Beverley by 73 points to three.
Certainly Beverley is weak, but 79 to three is very strong.
As things stand at present Carlton in the League and
Richmond in the Association are still undefeated ; their
respective competitors follow at nice-graduated dis-
tances.
• • * •
The latest thing in football circles is to finish in
the boxing balls all fights that are interrupted by the
breaking up of the scrum. This works off the bad blood
and keeps up the supply of material for “preliminaries,”
and all parties are satisfied. There are quite a number of
“ Pastime ” clubs and scrapping establishments round
the Sydney suburbs now, and gentlemen with a difference
are particularly welcome. They draw—being out for
gore every time.
* • * »
Towards the end of the season Sydney Univer-
sity footballers will have a picnic through Maoriland, and
go through the farce of trying to play a series of matches
against college teams representing Otago and Canterbury.
By way of returning the compliment, it is expected that
a team of Aucklanders will cross over to this side in
search of the scalp of the premier club of the year.
* • * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union has wiped
out the Medical Aid Fund, and given each club £lO, with
the advice to start a Medical Fund of its own. This was
very bad business. A percentage of the gate-money
ought to be ear-marked for a Medical Fund, to be con-
trolled by the Metropolitan Rugby Union, which ought to
be able to manage the business on better and cheaper
principles than the individual clubs.
* • * *
The parsimony of the N.S.W. Rugby Union in
bringing only four teams to Sydney this season will
deprive Country Week of much of its glory. What’s the
reason, anyhow ? Wasn’t the success of the country
teams last year palatable ?
* • * *
“Professor” Kemp, who gave such first-class
exhibitions of rough-riding and sitting buckjumpers at
the Sydney Agricultural Show Ground, when Skuthorp’s
show was in full blast there, seems to have struck an
ocean of troubles in Melbourne. The tall, wiry bushman,
with the brown ringlets and the red tie, is being over-
whelmed with a tidal wave of warrants which charge him
with being identical with one John Patrick Daly, who
seems to be suspected of having stolen all the horses in
Victoria at various dates, to say nothing of some saddles
and a few sums of money. When John Patrick Daly
travelled he is said to have just vaulted on the first horse
available—he was quite indifferent about saddles and
bridles—and ridden the prad till it showed signs of exhaus-
tion. Then he would just turn it loose in the first pad-
dock where there was decent feed and another horse to
take its place. It was an inexpensive method of getting
over the face of the country, but it had its
drawbacks, for Daly always found himself in
the vicinity of his latest misdeed. Not that it
seemed to make any difference to Daly, although
he had many narrow escapes, as he always managed to
get away. Then Daly vanished, and the long procession
of horses that he had borrowed began to file homeward,
and the only man who was realty robbed was the last
one. He made a considerable shindy, and with reason,
but the others seem to be unduly vindictive. The last
man didn’t lose his own horse—he was a policeman, and
he rode up to the house where Daly was staying, and
dismounting, entered the premises with a warrant. Daly
went out the back door, walked round the house, and
mounting the trooper’s gee-gee saved any unpleasantness
by galloping away. Then, as he gave up the habit of
borrowing horses, the police left him alone, and now,
seven years afterwards, when “ Professor” Kemp appears
in Melbourne he is charged with being John Patrick Dal v
coppers say there is only one man in Australia
who can sit a horse like him. Apparently there are
disadvantages in being able to sit a horse like no other
man on earth.
* * * *
Motor improvements are crowding so fast on
one another that it is almost impossible to keep pace
with them. Here are a few : Lamps fitted with rever-
sible lens, that can be made to throw either concen-
trated or widely divergent beams. Petrol gauges which
show the State of the tank. A combined watch, com-
pass, and aneroid barometer fastened to a patent speed
gauge. Goggles made with side mirrors working on
hinges, by which the driver can see behind him with-
out turning his head or taking both eyes off the road in
front. The safety glass screen is a triumph. Two sheets
of plate glass are fastened together with a sheet of cellu-
loid between them, and the result is that when indignant
foot-passengers heave half bricks, or the car tries to ride
over a bull, the glass does not splinter. It merely
“ stars ” or cracks. The celluloid sheet keeps the pieces in
place, and it is just as transparent as the single sheet of
glass.
* ■* * *
The death of Mr. Robert Rymill near Hamilton,
in Victoria, has revealed some horrible possibilities in
connection with motoring. This unfortunate motorist
was an experienced and skilful driver. He was running
his car at 12 miles an hour, and turning a break-neck
corner the machine side-slipped and crashed into a fence,
which overturned it. The driver was pinned down
under the bucket seat, and his companion, who was
thrown clear, was unable to lift the car, which weighed
23cwt. The driver was not injured internally or other-
wise, but was slowly suffocated by the weight of the car
on his chest while the frantic mechanic was rushing for
assistance.
* * * *
Humber and Co., of Beeston, Coventry, and
other places in England, are highly delighted at the per-
formance of Kellow and James in covering 65G miles in 24
hours, and have cabled that it is the world’s record for
the type of car. * * *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association has announced
that it consists of 275 metropolitan and 930 country
riders —mostly sheep, presumably. All the same, the
League will find the butchery of all that mob a big
contract.
* * * *
The N.S.W. association of dubious riders is
getting on nicely, thank you, and so many outsiders of
irreproachable riding character are swarming into it that
the birthstains of the new body have almost disappeared.
Paddington Club carried secession from the League by a
three-fourths majority, and the indications are that at
the end of the month’s truce Newcastle will
go the same way. But it is a bad business for
the professional pedal pusher who looks to the
track to supply him with a livelihood. The League
is in an almost impregnable position. It is recognised by
the rest of the Commonwealth as the ruling body of the
State, and it has the arrangements with the sports pro-
moters, who bring out the foreign cracks and work up the
big meetings. Unless the new association can raise
enough capital to start promoting races with big prizes
itself, it can only bring misfortune on those who are so
eagerly rushing to its support. There is not room in
N.S.W. for two bodies of professional cyclists, and the
solution of the present trouble is “ Compromise."
• • • •
The Dunlop Rubber Co. will run the big annual
Warrnambool-Melbourne road race on Saturday, Septem-
ber 22, a week earlier than last year’s event. The object
is to let all competitors get away in the daylight, and
thereby put the limit men on the same footing as the
scratch starters. The rush of entries indicates that this
year’s entry is going to break the record. Medals are to
be given to all riders covering the 165 miles under 10J
hours.
* * * *
The result of the Dunlop competition has been
made public. Out of the 16,000 coupons sent in, only
eight competitors succeeded in placing seven of the 20
designs in their correct position. The conditions of com-
petition were that successful coupons would be taken in
order according to date of receipt by the Dunlop Co.
The three prize-winners are—R. Brady, 75 Kay-street,
Carlton (Vic.), coupon dated Jan. 19th, 1906, first prize,
£35 ; Miss M. Mac Alister, 111 Rathdown-street, Carlton
Vic.), coupon dated Jan. 30th, 1906, seeond prize, £10;
and E, P. A. Emmett, 80 Peel-street, North Melbourne
(Vic.), coupon dated Feb. 2nd, 1906, third prize, £6. P.
Somerville, Oollingwood (Vic.), Feb. 22nd, ’O6 ; J. Allsorts,
Redfern (N.S.W.), March 3rd, ’O6; A. Todd, Wellington
(N.Z.), March 24th, ’O6 ; Mrs. J. McAUum, New Plymouth
(N.Z.), March 25th, ’O6 ; and Miss A. Dexter, Wanganui
(N.Z.), March 26th, ’O6, all placed seven designs correctly,
and although no provision was made prizes,
the Dunlop Co. has awarded a consolation prize of one
guinea to each of the five above-mentioned competitors.®
• • • •
Stud horse Carlyon died, the other day, leaving
no progeny of great importance behind him. Carlyon,
winner of the Australian Cup in ’BB, was one of James
White’s many first-class racers, and his jockey, the late
Tom Hales, had a notion that he was the best horse he
ever rode. But Carlyon was rarely at his best. Also he
happened at a time when Abercorn, Lochiel, and The
Australian Peer were at their best, and because he failed
badly in the only Melbourne Cup he started for, Carlyon
was not rated high by the public. His best offspring,
perhaps, was Carlton, who captured a Newmarket Handi-
cap rather unexpectedly.
* • « *
Absolutely the worst grovel to the Japanese
visitors was that perpetrated by the Ascot Pony Racing
Club. It had six events on its Saturday programme, and
these are the names it gave five of their. The Shimamura
Handicap, The Mikado Handicap, The Hashidate Handi-
cap, The Matushima Trial Stakes and The Itsukushima
Handicap. The only thing left now is to re-christen
itself the Yoshiwarra Racing Club.
* » * *
St. Albans (Vic.) bred Red Streak (by Wallace
from Elsie), which won City Handicap at Adelaide on
Saturday, promised big as a 2-year-old, but only scored
one win in J 3 starts last year. Though previously labelled
always unreliable. Red Streak carried considerable money
in her latest effort, and beat hot favorite Step Out, whose
load was IOSt. 51b.—261b. in excess of the winner’s.
* * * *
Eye-opening pony form ! At Kensington, on
Saturday, Encourage carried lOst, and beat eight others
in the 14,1 Handicap, and, later same day, appropriated
the 14.2 Handicap with 9st, 71b. (including 71b. penalty)
Up. Thus did the diminutive Courage gelding notch his
sixth consecutive win on Sydney’s big pony track.
* * * *
Swift Creek (Vic.) race meeting last week
supplied a record. Mr. H. Walterson’s nags (all ridden
by one jockey—Fred Ah Sam) scooped the programme.
Rival Sydney clubs’— Rosehill (horses) and
Ascot (ponies)—scramble for presence of Jap officers,
as a side-show at meetings last Saturday, was amusing.
Ascot people notified the “ extra ” as theirs, but Rosehill
folk announced that they were in front of the pony
people with invitations which couldn’t be accepted
because of the Admiral’s “ At Heme,” and knocked Ascot
completely out by adding that only the men were going
there.
* » • »
The big inducement offered in prize-money,
together with the fact that Up-to-Date and Tenakoe were
so successful this side of the Tasman Sea, is responsible
for a threatened invasion by M.L. leppers. Announced
that M.L. trainer A. Hall' will shortly bring over the
strongest combination of jumpers that has ever left that
section, made up of M.L’s best ’chaser (Kaitere), Kremlin,
Hutara, Shrapnel, Black Reynard, Liell and Apiti. Likely
that the team may make its first dash at Victorian Grand
National meetings. ,
« * * *
Once brilliant Australian Star, bought a few
years ago by M.L. sport Mr. S. H. Gollan from Sydney
trainer-owner “ Andy ” Gollan (not related) for 2500g5., is
at the Grange stud, Herts, England. Fee 19gs., and
services in little request.
* ♦ * *
It seems that the Australians did break some
records while at Athens. While strolling round one
pleasant evening Barker, Blake and Wheatley' found
themselves in an election riot in which there was enough
promiscuous shooting to have wiped out the population
of the ancient city. Nobody seems to have been hurt,
however, so apparently the people of Athens buy their
“squirts” from the same makers as the N.S.W. police.
The startling feature of the shindy was the amazing
sprint put up by the Australians. They had managed to
blunder in between the opposing forces, and the pace
they made getting out of the line of alleged fire roused
great enthusiasm, and materially affected the betting on
the Stadium. By the way, Barker attributes the failure
of the Australians to lack of training facilities. They
were not allowed on the Stadium till a few day's before
the opening of the games, and it was then too late. And
the Stadium seems to have been the only place where a
man could get room enough to fill his lungs properly.


Because a Man Lives in the Country
There is no reason why he cannot be as well dressed as the city folk.
gjgp= Write to the Leading Tailor for Patterns, Measurement
Forms, etc. Suits delivered to any Post Office in Australia.
New Four Guinea Suitings. No Factory Work.
ETT A T Merchant Tailor,
9 M m ffJL A. JL JLy
359 SEORSE STREET, SYDNEY.
G
EM SONG BOOK.
600 Songs, Words and Music for 2/6.
A Gigantic Collection of War, Patriotic, Comic, Coon#
Nigger, Sacred. Pathetic, and Love Songs of England#
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, America, Germany, etc.
New and old time favorites and ballads not to be found else-
where. Most marvellous collection ever bound together
between the covers of one book. Price only 2/6, posted 2/10,
If stamps only are enclosed add 3d. extra. List of Songs for stamn
Name this raver.
A. «/. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., Sydney.
x COMPETENT JUDGES x
WEAR OUR HATS.
GOOD AUSTRALIAN HATS are better than poor
Imported Hats —than g*ood Imported Hats for a
matter of that.
OUH Hats are good Australian Hats—no better Hat
can be sold for the money. They are made by hand
from pure Australian furs —by the most skilled Aus-
tralian workmen paid Union wastes and working only
48 hours a week. They are sold in both Hard and
Soft Felts in every shape—for the City Man, The
Squatter, the Farmer, the Miner, the Station Hand.
Wear them and you’ll get a Hat you’ll be proud to
wear. Besides you’ll be helping your fellow country-
men —keeping some of the £200,000 a year that’s now
spent in imported Hats in your own Australia.
That’s Practical Patriotism—and remember you sacri-
fice no quality in exercising it.
Our Hats cost Half a Guinea and Twelve and Six-
pence. You can buy them at these prices from
Dealers throughout the Commonwealth.
Every Hat has our Full Name stamped on the
Inside Leather. Without this none is genuine.
You’ll find them light and long lasting—the colors
guaranteed fast dved —and very comfortable to the
head. If you can’t get our Hats from your Dealer
write to us direct—
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS PROPY. LTD.
X ABBOTSFORD. X
ƒd
Dunlop
Tyres
Are reside, of the ricfHt
m&teri&l-and on the right
principle, consequently
give the-
Best wearing on
Australian Roads
Speci/y "DUNLOPS*,
and look for Hns
J TrfcdeMark
ďf
Dunlpp Rubber
Ail states
Co. of Au3.Ltd
6-M.Z.
Dunlop
Competition
Result.
16,000 Slips received from every part
of Australasia, out of which 8 com-
petitors placed 7 designs correctly.
The three first successful competitors
and Prize Winners are —
£35—R. BRADY, (19th Jan., 1906)
75 Kay St., Carlton, Vic*
£lo—Miss MacALLISTER (Jan. 30, ’O6)
111 Rathdowne St., Carlton, Vic.
£5—E. P- EMMETT (Feb. 5, 1906)
80 Peel St., N. Melbourne, Vic.
A Consolation Prize ot ONE GUINEA each has
been awarded to the 5 remaining competitor.
The correct order of placing
of Designs was as follows :
40, 8, 5, 3, 16, 18, 7, 11, 10, 12*
4, 15, 13, 2, 20, 6, 17, 14, 1, %
DUNLOP RUBBED CO, OF AUST. LTD.
att. STATES AND NEW EfiAtANB.
The Australian pedestrians who went to Athens
to take part in the Olympic games were all introduced to
King Edward, Queen Alexandra, the Prince and Princess
qf Wales, and the local royal family. The runners all
write enthusiastically of Edward VII. as a " proper sort of
bloke,” and the athletes seem to have found it a much
easier task to get into affable conversation with Royal
Highnesses than do returned Australians, distinguished
colonists, C.M.G.’s, and such like. His Gracious asked G.
Blake, the Vic. % long-distance man, if he was feeling fit,
and when Blake" replied that he would be all right when
he had shed a couple of pounds of fat, the royal Edward
laughed so heartily that Blake had an uneasy feeling of
being suspected of “ poking borak ” at the King’s waist-
coat, Edward sporting a fair round bing.v of his own. The
runners found the Princelet of Wales “a nervous little
chap, but he does his best.” It isn’t a large-sized best,
but it is the best best he has.
* » * *
Top-notch youngster of M.L. racing season is
2yr.-old Kirriemuir, who has already gathered £1705 in
stake money. But this isn’t a record —Multiform in his
year went over £lOOO better with a haul totalling £2761.
* * * »
The Sydney Metropolitan Fire Brigade crew
which gave the Baltimore crowd such an unholy doing,
on Saturday treated a crew from the British warship
Challenger to a similar beating. The race took place in
whale boats, over a distance of four miles, in Port
Jackson, and the firemen, going to the front with a
bound, stayed there without any apparent effort, and led
home by somewhere about minutes. They are a
wonderful crew, and, if they keep their present form and
combination, there doesn’t seem to be much chance of
their being beaten.
* . * *
George Towns is to do the bulk of his training
on the Hunter River away from prying eyes, but Stanbury
will stick to the Parramatta, and blow the sightseers !
So far the river bank proprietors have not been brought
to reason, and the locale of the race lias not yet been
decided. Both men are making strenuous efforts to get
into the best condition, as the one who goes under in this
struggle practically disappears from the limelight for
ever.
• • * •
A few frothy Maoriland parsons, backed up by
a bishop who wears a ridiculous-looking apron and
needlessly advertises his legs, have been inveighing
against the totalisator and “exposing” it as a delusion
and a sham, and a flagrant fraud in regard to promoting
strictly cash betting. They point out that clubs allow
pch men—backers whose names are “good”—to hand in
I.O.U’s. to the proprietors for any amount they please,
settling up after the meeting. Though this has been the
vogue for years, the white-chokered gentry have only just
found it out. Some clubs, however, don’t take any re-
sponsibility in the matter at all —the tote owner can give
credit or otherwise, as he thinks fit. And he thinks fit
pretty often. The big men of the turf, who support their
horses solidly, don’t care to carry a few hundred notes
about with them to last them over a meeting, so the
temporary credit system is appreciated. Canterbury
Jockey Oiub issues special cheque books to its wealthy
patrons, and they hand their bits of paper in at the last
moment when it’s too late for the small fry to get a
“saver” on. Why clubs, or their'tote runners, should
have the dead dog of obloquy shot at them because they
ove members a day or two’s financial accommodation
isn’t apparent. But this is the parsons’ silly season, and
when the parsons’ silly season happens anything is liable
to happen.
• • * *
A well-filled house watched Westralian “ Bob ”
Greenfields deal out a systematic hiding to Savral, at
the Cyclorama building, Melbourne, t’other night. The
“ Coon ” weighed-in at 9st. 41b., giving away some 4lb. to
his taller and more speedy opponent, who led from start
to finish, dealing machine-like blows that caused a trans-
formation in “ Teddy’s” face. Greenshields, all the same,
received applause from the top shelves for a good many
blows that merely landed on a glove or were delivered
ineffectually with an open hand. During the fifth round,
Savral got home with a heavy right cross, that caused
the white man to pause, and was again slightly ahead in
a smart rally later in the same round. But “ Bob ” re-
mained unmarked. From halfway, Savral began to
weaken considerably, and repeatedly hung on, and
between the rounds he partook of huge draughts of
smelling salts. In the 15th round he got a final biff that
sent him to the boards a battered and beaten coon,
whereupon his faithful valet skied the towel.
* * * *
Sydney Russell and John Mason met for a
second time at Sydney Club on Saturday night. On the
previous occasion Mason had been disqualified on a foul,
hut stoutly maintained that the referee had made a mis-
take. Russell was convinced that whatever was done was
quite unintentional, and agreed to a second meeting.
With only a pound difference in their weight they seemed
as equal a match as could be made. Mason attacked
with great vim, and Russell stood up and coolly aimed
straight lefts and right counters to the jaw. None of
them got home, but, after the manner of the lobster
supper, they had a disquieting effect. Like the ghost
that Saul saw, they seemed to presage disaster, and in the
second round Mason acted on the defensive. Russell
assumed the aggressive, and Mason hurled the straight
lefts and right counters, but wasn’t quick enough, and,
although Russell stopped a few, he didn’t require an
undertaker. Mason found himself “up against it,” and
evasion being impossible he just hung on for all he was
worth till the sixth round, when the referee got tired,
and remarking that this was a boxing hall and not a
clinching shop, gave Russell the verdict. It was per-
fectly fair. Mr. Mason had ceased to fight, and was
struggling only to save his face.
* * * *
The most unkindest cut of all in the prosecu-
tion that followed the raiding of Sydney Club was when
the police testified that the machine on which the mem-
bers could risk a humble boh or half-dollar was faked up
so as to give the bank an overwhelming advantage. But,
like many other people who attempt to give reasons for
what they say, the “copper” who proceeded to demon-
strate to the court how unfair the machine was, fell in,
and as long as it was in front of the magistrate the
machine paid enormous dividends. Later on, when the
court wasn’t sitting, the machine turned round and re-
couped its losses with great celerity, only to again go dog
on the police when the beak was present. Just now it is
whispered round sporting circles that Wren is going to
pay the fines of all the men who were arrested in the
club, and altogether it is on the cards that the raid will
be about the best advertisement that Wren could have
got. It was Hannibal who first showed the world how to
turn one’s own disadvantages to account, and John Wren
begins to look like a misguided descendant of the
Carthaginian.
* * * *
The Whiting-Andrews scrap at Sydney National
Sporting Club, last week, would have been a really inter-
esting affair had Montague been able to hit, but the man
with the iron-clad face had a fist like a feather so far as a
knock-out was concerned. In the first half of the battle
Whiting, who is bigger and heavier than Andrews, rushed
the Sydneyite all over the ring, and Andrews’ elegant
footwork was badly taxed. After ten rounds of this sort
of thing, Andrews found his man was tiring considerably,
and unable to rush him with the same cheerful vigor as
before. Then he did a little rushing on his own, climbed
all over Whiting, and laid his hands on him just whenever
he pleased, but without any decisive effect. The laying on
of hands in a bruising match is a mistake, and the thing
went the full 29 rounds, when the referee declared in
favor of Montague Andrews. It was not a wildly exciting
scrap.
* * * *
Bill Squires returned to Newcastle to act as
second to Lyn Truscott, who was soundly belted, on Fri-
day night last, by Robert Whitelaw. The appearance of
the champion was the signal for a tremendous demonstra-
tion. Now that Wren has arranged for gentleman-
bruiser O’Brien to come to Australia to meet the New-
castle thumper, William Squires is within measurable
distance of the world’s championship.
• * * •
Some of these days a baseballer in his defensive
armor will be run in as an Afrite at large, or a jimjam
out on the loose; or caught by a bacteriologist and
bottled up as a new sort of microbe, or something
equally dreadful. How is it that all these Yankee games
run to defensive armor ? • Their baseball doesn’t seem
half as dangerous as cricket when Cotter is bowling, yet
the local batsmen and wicket-keepers do not cover them-
selves with cockatoos’-cages or meat-safes, and wear
frying-pans on their hands. The Yankee game of foot-
ball, even in its wildest moments, was tame compared to
the South Sydney team clearing the line when Eastern
Suburbs were raging round for tries, and Godfrey de
Bouillon storming Jerusalem was not armored like one
of those Yankees. About the only sports who don’
wear defensive armor in the States are the boxer and
the ping-pojiger. , » •
Buttan Singh is getting cocky again, as the
memorv of that giant swing to which Hackenschnudt
treated him is blurred by distance. He has announced
that he is very anxious to make a wrestling match with
anyone, but mournfully intimates that he has his doots if
a wrestling match in Melbourne would draw more than a
£l5 house Heavens 1 What-S the use of being champion
of Australia if the people won’t pay more than £l5 to see
him place the other fellows’ shoulders against the mat i
Better he skittle champion. That would at least provide
drinks. _ .
* * * *
Premier Bent is regarding “glove contests”
with a cold stare, and in response to representations by
parsons, archdeacons and other old ladies of both sexes,
has intimated that the Exhibition Building will not in
future be available for that class of amusement. While
Bent is at it he might do something to suppress horse-
racing ; an awful lot of people were killed, ruined and
otherwise inconvenienced last year in connection with
horse-racing.
* * * •
After an exhaustive inquiry extending, ap-
parently, over several months, the Victorian Rifle Asso-
ciation committee has reported that the accusation of
fraudulent marking at Williamstown V.R.A. meeting in
October last year was largely a matter of leg-pulling. It
will be remembered that a N.S.W. competitor was
approached b}’ a person who said that, for he could
fix up the marking. The special committee has an-
nounced that it does not doubt the word of the com-
petitor, but in face of the fact that it was quite
impossible for anyone to fix the marking, it can only
come to the conclusion that the party was trying to
obtain the competitor’s money under false pretences.
The fact is that the competitor should have had the
party who approached him apprehended, or else have
kept his mouth shut.
REPORTING PROGRESS.
Lieutenant Rawson, son of Sir Harry Rawson, has been
appointed Rear-Admiral Shimamura’s flag lieutenant
while the squadron is in Sydney.
THE MIKADO: “ Well , Shim, old boy, how did
the Australians treat you? ”
SHIMAMURA : " First rate. Why, one of the States
lent me the son of their Governor just to
carry my soap and clean my boots. They are
a very amenable race.”
“R. Mcß.” : Knew Billy Squires before he
punched his way to fame and fortune. He was then
navvying on a colliery-railway up in Newcastle district.
He (who made considerably over £lOO in five minutes, the
other night) received the magnificent wage of ss. lOd. a
day. Saw Billy’s first appearance in the hempen square.
It was a preliminary to a no-class battle between two
local nobodies —just fancy Squires in a preliminary ! He
was billed to spar four rounds with a promising pupil of
Paddy King. That spar did not go four rounds—nor four
seconds. “Time!” yelled the referee, “Bash” went
William. “ Bump ” went the promising pupil in the
farthest corner—“ outed ” with a broken nose. Bill was
sorry, so was his opponent. Squires was up for a holiday
in Maitland just before meeting Murphy. He refereed a
novice tourney up there, and proved himself the ideal man
to supervise the wild and woolly fights on the new coal-
fields. The very first heat tried his metal. The defeated
would-be pug, not satisfied with the decision, socked the
heavy champion on the jaw. Billy smiled, and “ outed ”
him with a disdainful backhander, and called for the
next pair. He hardly took the trouble to look at his
enemy as he hit him—just brushed him off the universe
casually.
* * ■* *
The world very nearly lost a great wrestler
when George J. Hackenschmidc was a puling infant, Who
used to crawl round the floor of his Russian home, putting
an occasional hammerlock on the cat. On# afternoon,
Hacky’s mother, underrating the strength of her off-
spring, left a heavy tub of boiling water on the floor,
while she went into Siberia, or some place, to collect the
clothes from the line. Little Georgie gazed on the tub,
and wanted to see what was in it. So he hauled it over,
pouring several gallons of boiling water over him. To the
present day his right side shows only a plain stretch of
honeycombed white skin instead of the convolutions of
muscle that grace the other sections of him.
“The launch is 28 years old, and on her
last legs.”— Harbor-master’s report to Melbourne
Harbor Trust.
A short-skirted girl named Brown —a 15-
year-old girl with her hair down and a good deal
of stocking showing—has had an experience in
Melbourne. She was first hauled up at the
police-court on a charge of abusive lan-
guage. Mrs. Levey swore that she called out,
among other things, “Who cares for Mother
Levey ? ” Girl Brown swore, with tears, that she
didn’t, and the court believed her, and apparently
disbelieved Mrs. Levey ; anyhow, Girl Brown was
acquitted. Then Mrs. Levey prosecuted De-
moiselle Brown in the Criminal Court. The
charge was one of perjury, she, it was
alleged, having falsely sworn that she didn’t
call out “Who cares for Mother Levey?”
Again, Mrs. Levey swore that Maid Brown made
the remark, and again Little Woman Brown de-
clared that she didn’t. This time also the jury
seems to have believed Daughter Brown, and to
have disbelieved Mrs. Levey, and there was
another acquittal. And now that Mrs. Levey has
had two shots at little short-skirted Brown with
her hair down, and two courts haven’t accepted
Mrs. Levey’s statement, it seems time —on the
mere principle of turn about—that someone gave
the court a chance to acquit Mrs. Levey of per-
jury. Then, both parties being acquitted, things
would be even.
Goldsbrough Mort and Company, Limited, have
received the following cable from their London House
with reference to the wool sales :—“ Market closed and
the tone was slightly easier since our last telegram. We
now quote: Merinos—Prices show an advance as compared
with last series par to 5 per cent. Improvement shown
more particularly on scoureds. Finest crossbreds fully
maintained; medium crossbreds unchanged ; coarse
crossbreds 5 per cent, advance. Out of 166,000 bales
available in London for the series, 91,000 hales have been
taken by the home trade, 57,000 bales for the continent,
9000 bales for America, 9000 bales withdrawn and
unoffered.*
The S.M. Herald has been skirmishing
around the truth again. In an article on Ihe
Boom in Cornsacks,” it notes that Australia s
chief industries consist in sending away wool we
haven’t prills to use, exporting corn we haven’t
the population to eat, and exporting ore we
haven't the sense to smelt and manufacture. “On
jute we are absolutelj%iependent . . . and, seeing
our dependence, the wily Asiatic and the European
capitalists at his back are making us pay tribute ”
—to the tune of Bd. a sack. Then the Herald
proceeds to neatly dodge the obvious. It recom-
mends AustraliaYto grow jute and make its own
sacks ? Not much ! Just to ship its gram with-
out putting it in sacks. On almost any still, dark
night you can hear the Herald weeping because
it can’t also advocate exporting wool on the
sheep’s back and shipping mines in bulk.
Kelly, M.H.R., just back from Europe,
says “we ought to populate Australia as fast as
we can with people of our own blood from over
seas.” Exactly—but how? By providing work
for them in Australian factories? Kelly is
howling for imports of manufactured goods
instead of factories. By providing land for them,
which means breaking up the big estates for
closer settlement ? Watson wants to do that with
his graduated land-tax, but Kelly follows Reid,
who says the proposal is an outrage and
“ unconstitoosh’nal.” Kelly’s own aid in the
noble work has so far consisted in being the
tittering cub of the House of Reps., the eternal
babbler, the individual who wants the House
counted, and so on. What does he propose to do !
A SIMILE AND A MORAL.—“What
the dustman is to the dwelling in which we live,
that Hunyadi Janos is to the local habitation of
the human spirit.” Thus writes a well-known
medical writer.*
The drollest thing in the history of Euro-
pean politics is the note addressed to the Chinese
Government by the British one (all the “Great
Powers” being agreeable to it), demanding a
satisfactory assurance that China will not attempt
to take the administration of its own Customs
department out of European hands. On the one
hand, there is the alliance between Britain and
“the brave Japs,” those alleged pattern repre-
sentatives of self-governing ability ; on the other
hand, there is Britain claiming a right to manage
the Customs affairs of four hundred million Chows,
who will presently be joined with the Japs in a
Yellow Federation against the world. Britain’s
“brave allies” make no comment on the farcical
situation. Their tongues are in their cheeks.
They are waiting for their Chow cousin to pull
himself together and put the fear of Joss into the
astonished foleign devil.
To Yes-No at Geelong (Vie.) an interjector
called out, “What about the Japanese fleet?”
Then said Reid: “It is owing to the Japanese
flag being entwined with the Union Jack that we
Australians enjoy our present security.” Here
was a man who all his life has done his best to
keep this country poor and inefficient and depen-
dent, and who then flings at his audience the gibe
that it depends for security on an Asiatic State
which practises high Protection and all manner of
Socialistic devices (State tobacco monopoly, State
factories, &c.), that Reid says are accursed. And
an Australian audience swallows the gibe with-
out a groan.
Having made a success of his electric
tramway, Premier Bent is hustling the suburban
municipalities into groups for tramway construc-
tion purposes. As might be expected, the Tory
councils of Caulfield and Prahran want power to
delegate their rights to Private Enterprise. Bub
Bent is solid, so far. Said he —“You won’t get
delegation. Either you come to terms to build
the lines yourselves, or I’ll build them. I’ll give
you three weeks to think it over.”. There are the
makings of a prime democrat in Bent, if he
wasn’t so easily unbent.
This appeared 19/5/’OG in Sydney Subur-
ban Times (there were six verses, but the public
will be let off with three): —
And tfie man who could take another man’s poem
and adapt it into that is one of the members of
the N.S.W. House entrusted with guarding the
rights of property !
WELCOME TO THE JAPANESE SQUADRON, MAY, 1906.
[Adapted.]
You Mariners of Nippon,
Who guard the Eastern seas,
Whose Flag has braved the enemy,
The battle and the breeze. . .
The meteor Sun of Nippon,
Shall still terrific burn,
When battle’s stormy night is past
And days of peace return. . .
In fiery fight, on sea or shore,
When stormy tempests blow ;
When fiery fight is heard no more,
And the storm has ceased to blow.
N. HAWKEN, M.L.C.


/
%■
•raw*
\
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
KEYLESS WATCHES,
10s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, £2.
Solid Silver Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Spray Bar BROOCH, 21s.
A Tasty Design.
YOUR OPPORTUNITY FOR CHOICE IS GREATER THAN EVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold SCROLL BROOCH
Pearls and Rubies. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH
Pearls and Rubies, 17s 6d.
We Will
Send You
Our Illustrated Catalogue
on request. Its perusal
will help you,
and give you a very
good idea of the enormous
stock we carry.
All goods sent POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star PENDANT
or BROOCH,
Set Pure White Pearls, £5 ss.
Diamond Centre, £7 10s.
mt
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in Four
Sizes, £2 10s, £3. £3 10s, £4. All with Safety
Chains attached.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Three-Bar SCROLL BROOCH,
Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
20s.
Country
Residents I
No matter where you live,
you have the same
opportunity
in choice and price
that you would have
if personally selecting
in our great store.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
KEYLESS WATCHES, Jewelled,
€2 10s, i. £3 10s, ;C4, £5, £6
£7, £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar BROOCH,
Opal and Four Pure Diamonds, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Lyre BROOCH.
Pure White Pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PIN.
Pearls and Rubies,
15s.
SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold CROSS,
6s 6d.
Larger,
7b 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Half Chased Bamboo BRACELET, with
Safety Chain attached, £2 15s. Smaller, £2 ss.
Plain, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ruby
or Sapphire, 20a.
Pure Double. £2.
SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
Pearl Set
WISHBONE,
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Spray
BROOCH.
Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
IBct. Gold Two-Heart
RING,
Opals and Four
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
LoeoWkcr
The
IHEEIMS
ggSHim
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM, 8s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 6d, 6s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
Chain and Wishbone
CHARM, 7K 6d.
Smaller. 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray and Crescent NECKLET, Set Fine Pure White Pearls, £4.
Heart or Lyre Centre same price. Complete in Silk-Lined Case.
Other Styles. £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Circle
BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls and
Turquoise, £2 58.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH.
Pure Pearls and Opal Body, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon
BROOCH. Set Pearls
and Turquoise, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Pin and
New Zealand
Greenstone
CHARM, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Five Fine
Pure Opals, £2 10s.
Extra Quality Opals,
Larger, £3.
PCS’
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM. 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Pure Double Cut Diamond
BROOCH, £2. Larger Diamond. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Horseshoe
and Stone Set Heart
CHARM, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Extra Heavy
HAND CLASP. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2 10s. .
18et. Gold Half-Hoop
Five Pure Double Cut
Diamonds, £4 10s.
Larger Diamonds,
£5, £6 10s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £lO 10s.
SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Marquise
RING, Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires, £6 10s.
Larger, £7 10s,
£8 10s. £lO. £l2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone HEART PENDANTS,
Gold Mounted, 10s 6d. Larger, 12s 6d.
Smaller, ss, 7s 6d, 8s 6cL
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Four Pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Double
Cut Diamonds
and Rubies,
or Sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mounted New Zealand Greenstone Bar BROOCH,
15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet RING,
20s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold. £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Envelope
CHARM. 12s 6<L
Post Card, 10s 6d.
Silver, 4s 6d.
SPECIAL,
15s.
X® /
\
usKCrders
Cl! George Strict
SYDNEY
V.
SUPERIOR,
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s. All
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15et. Gold, £5 10s, £6 10s,
£7 10s, £B, £lO, Solid Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d. Gold Pilled, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and
Dumbbell LINKS. 12s od.
15ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. (Sold BRACELET, Pure Double Cut Diamonds
and Rubies ot Sapphires, £3.
15ct. Gold. £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval
LINKS. 255.
15ct. Gold, £2, £2 10b.
Initials Engraved Free.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
m
a
m
.
m
mm
m
GOLD
CASED,
£4 4s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS,
£2 £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent
Gold Cases, £4 4s, £5 ss, £8 10s. Solid
Gold, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS
j SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER, 1
\ SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, j
809, 81 I, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney,


c
m*:.
>r
m
X
Well! so long', son. If yer g'et ’ome-sicK and feel
lonely, g'o and buy a smoße of HAVELOCK! ”


Public Notice.
MR. JOSEPH WOOLF, Solicitor, formerly
of 43 Market-street, Melbourne, has now
removed to NORWICH UNION CHAMBERS,
Corner QUEEN-STREET and FLINDERS
LANE, MELBOURNE.
Wonderful Electric
Pocket Lamps.
D 1
3/9
and
7/6.
|ID ycm ever realise what a great advantage one of our
ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPS would be to you ?
Just stop and think—think of the number of times when
you have nearly met with an accident in the dqrk, or how
frequently you have cursed the match that burned your
finger. Our Electric Pocket Lamp may save vour life.
ƒďfd
Better than an Insurance Policy in
a house. Get one, and you won’t
use quarter as many matches at
night as before. Ninety per cent,
of the fires are caused through care-
less handling- of matches. With our
Electric Pocket Lamp there is no
danger of fire whatever. A child
can use it without the slightest
danger. Better think it over and
see if it isn’t worth your while to
procure one. We have them in two
grades :
FIRST GRADE.—Absolutely the
best Pocket Lamp on the market.
All the latest improvements, in-
cluding powerful magnifying lense
(enabling you to see over 200 feet
ahead); and fitted with our famous Rosewood’s Electro-
lyte Battery which will last at least SIX MONTHS ; in
short, is a perfect article. Batteries are sent with the
Lamps uncharged, so that they can be charged as required
by anyone following' the simple, interesting directions
given, and they can thus be sent with safety to any part
of the Globe. Only those who have been sadly disap-
pointed by the wasted current which naturally takes
place with charged Batteries sent by post, will realise the
superiority, on this account alone, of our WONDERFUL
ELECTROLYTE BATTERIES. Price 7/6, post free any-
where. Extra Batteries, 2/6 posted.
SECOND GRADE.—Gives a very good light, and, to
many, just as good as the first grade. Battery lasts about
three or four months. 3/9 posted. Extra Batteries, 1/6,
post free.
EVERY LAMP GUARANTEED. No other firm will
do this. OUR LAMPS ARE NOT TOYS.
A. J* SMITH & CO*, 6 Moore St*, Sydney*
Amusements,
MARIE NARELLE
Opens her Australian tour at the
Sydney Town Hall,
JUNE 16.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Success of OMEGA, Queen of the Wire.
Also, O’NATIS TROUPE of Wonderful Algerian Jugglers
Emphatic Success of HOMER B. MASON and
MARGUERITE KEELER CO.
Continued Enormous Success of BLAKE and GRANBY.
THE CARMOS, Sensational Jugglers.
MISS NITA LEETE. THE SISTERS WARNER,
SAYLES, THE CATHEDRAL CHORISTERS.
HARRY SADLER. BABY SUTTON. FRED. BLUETT.
O P O E , R * .HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
LAROLA, Funny Man, Funny Ways.
ROSE CABANI, Serio Comic and Dancer.
SLADE MURRAY, Comedian, Descriptive Vocalist.
KELLY and AGNES, Comedy Duo.
THE THREE LEES, Vocalists, Dancers, Acrobats.
BABY WATSON, Juvenile Vocalist Actress.
LILIETH LEYTON and Mr. HARRY KENDAL in
Comedy Sketch, THE ORDER OF THE BATH.
And a host of others.
Plan at Allan’s. Jif PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s. Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
N
FOR THE NEXT EIGHT NIGHTS,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in
the Original, Novel, Interesting, Mirth-Provoking Play,
THE NIGHT BIRDS OF LONDON.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
I_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE^
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr, J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, a Gale of Merriment.
America’s Foremost Comedian, MR. WILLIAM COLLIER,
—in—
THE DICTATOR.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS, EVERY EVENING,
WEST’S PICTURES,
THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
THE BRESCIANS,
ORCHESTRA AND SINGERS.
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS
THE BEST, SWEETEST, STRONGEST,
AND LOUDEST IN THE WORLD.
BOOMER ANG.
“ Professional,” large size 4/-, small size 2/-, post free
“ Boomerang,” large size 2/6, small size 1/6, post free
«NW
5®
Edison Gold-Moulded
Records,
Price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBERT & SON,
137 KING ST., SYDNEY.
Largest Wholesale and Retail Stores
for Music, Musical Instruments,
Violins, Accordeons, etc., Edison
Phonographs and Records.
CATALOGUES FREE. WHOLESALE SUPPLIED.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET
...OP THE...
BanK of New South Wales, 31st March, 1900.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation .. £'1,027,892 0 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest. 25,352,701 7 4
—£26,380,593 7
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of In-
vestments Fluctuation Account and
Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee and Provi-
videntFund)
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss ..
..£2,000,000 0 0
.. 1,425,000 0 0
.. 155,918 19 0
3,303,304 17 9
-£3,580,918 19 0
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra
£33,264,817 4 1
.. 568,967 9 4
£33,833,784 13 5
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances .. ..£5,978,287 12 5
Queensland Government
Notes 132,716 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 28,689 0 0
Money at short call in
London 2,230,000 0 0
Investments British
and Colonial Govern-
ment Securities .. 1,796,209 15 6
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 157,238 711
Due by other Banks .. 48,268 13 4
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit
3,587,049 16 6
£13,958,459
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
-5 8
vances to Customers
Bank Premises..
.. 18,591,357 18 5
.. 715,000 0 0
T . £33,264,817 4 1
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit as per Contra.. .. 568,967 9 4
£33,833,784 13 5
PROFIT AND LOSS. 31st MARCH, 1906.
Cr.
io Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
counted not due at this date .. .. £8 301 7 9
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows :
l?o Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum ..£lOO,OOO 0 0
i, Augmentation of the Re-
serve Fund 25,000 0 0
( , Balance carried forward 22,617 11 3
£147,617 11 3
£155,918 19 0
By Amount from last Account .. .. £18,232 10 4
„ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after pro-
viding for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Fluctuations in the Value of Invest-
ment Securities, reducing the Valua-
tion of Bank Premises, and including
Recoveries from Debts previously
written off as Bad 137 ggg g g
£155,918 19 0
RESERVE FUND, 31st MARCH, 1906.
Dr.
Cr.
lb Balance .. .. ~ .. ..£1,450,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested ih
British Government Securities, and
the balance is employed in the busi-
ness of the Bank.)
—
£1,450,000 0 0
By Balance £1,425,000 0 0
~ Amount from Profit and Loss.. .. 25,000 0 0
£1,450,000 0 0
By Balance .. ~£1,450,000 0 0
j. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager, pel 1 T. H. IVEY, Manager, Head Offioe.
4r
GQOD_HAIR FOR ALL !
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST ,
195 Collins St,, Melbourne
Amusements.
QRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEAOH.
TO-NIGHT, aDd EVERY EVENING, the
WILLOUGHBY AND WARD NEW LONDON COMEDY
COMPANY, including MISS CRACE PALOTTA,
the Famous Society and Beauty Actress, in
THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Day
Tickets at White Rose.
COUNTRY TOUR of the,
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR GREAT
THAUMATURCIC PICTURE DISPLAY.
TWO GRAND ENTERTAINMENTS IN ONE.
WINCHAM, THURSDAY and FRIDAY, JUNE 7 and 8.
TAREE, MONDAY and TUESDAY, JUNE 11 and 12.
COOPERNOOK, WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY,
JUNE 13 and 14.
LAURIETON, FRIDAY & SATURDAY, JUNE 15 and 16.
PORT MACQUARIE, MONDAY, JUNE 18.
WAUCHOPE, TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY, JUNE 19 & 20.
KEMPSEY, THURSDAY & FRIDAY, JUNE 21 and 22.
R. H. OOLLINS, Manager.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT and his
FAVORITE COMPANY OF DRAMATIC ARTISTS
in Drury-Lane’s Greatest Success,
THE PRODIGAL SON. .
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, JUNE 2, FOR ENCLAND.
Box Plan at El*y’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
Her majesty’s theatre, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS, at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, at 2.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
—in
A COUNTRY GIRL.
The Brightest of all the Gaiety Successes.
SATURDAY, JUNE 2, THE LITTLE MICHUS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee .. Mr. George Musgrove.
Under the Direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
EVERY EVENING, Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY CO. in
DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
Reappearance of MRS. BROUGH.
The London Bank of Australia Limited.
Subscribed Capital - £1,276,747 10 O
Paid-up - - - --- - 547,827 10 O
Uncalled, including Reserve Liability - 728,920 O O
«
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
DAVID FINLAYSON, Esq., Chairman.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
RIGHT HON. SIR WALTER FOSTER, M.P.
SIR JAMES FRANCIS GARRICK, K.C.M.G., K.C.
DAVID QUIXANO HENRIQUES, Esq.
GEORGE MILLER, Esq.
ROBERT ROME, Esq.
DIRECTORS' REPORT
Presented at the ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors, held at Winchester House, Old Broad-
street, at IS o’clock noon, on Monday, lUth May, 1906.
The Directors present their report, accompanied, as usual, by audited accounts, for the year ended
31st December last.
The Profits, as shown by the Annual Statement of Profit and Loss, after deducting
Management Charges and Taxes, amount to £85,781 8 7
To which is added the amount brought forward 11,561 11 2
~ ~ £97,342 19 9
After providing for the interest at per cent, on the Transferable Deposit
Receipts for the year 1905, amounting to 62,587 9 8
There remains a Credit Balance to be dealt with of 34,755 10 1
Out of which the directors recommend
That the Dividend of 5£ per cent, on the Preference Shares be paid for
The year ended 31st December, 1905 £9,456 3 0
That a Dividend of 2£ per cent, on the Ordinary Shares be declared
for the same period 9,192 13 9
18,648 16 9
That the balance be carried forward to next account £16,106 13 4
Australia has had another good year with an abundant harvest and a largely increased produc-
tion of wool. The price of wool has been more than maintained. Recently rain has fallen abundantly
in almost every district, and prospects are favorable for another good season.
Money, in consequence of the large sums received for crops and the wool clip, is very plentiful,
and rates are low, which for the present is not favorable to banking profits.
In pursuance of the Directors’ policy, to pay off the Transferable Deposits as soon as practicable,
another 10 per cent, instalment amounting with interest to £320,000 was pre-paid on the Ist instant,
now leaving only the instalment due 1917 to be dealt with.
During the year Branches and Agencies have been opened at Casino, Coraki, and Woodburn
South in New South Wales, and at Framlingham, Koo-wee-rup, Purnim, and Yea in Victoria.
The Branch at Wilcannia, New South Wales, has been closed.
The Director retiring under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association is Mr. Robert
Rome, who being eligible offers himself for re-election.
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse, and Co., also retire, and again offer themselves
for re-election.
Warrants for the dividends, less Income Tax, will be issued payable on and after 17th May to
those Shareholders whose names appeared on the Register on the 30th ultimo.
By Order of the Board,
2 Old Broad-street, London, 3rd May, 1906.
F. J. CURTIS, Secretary.
Balance-Sheet, 31st December, 1905.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
CAPITAL
49,103 Ordinary Shares of
£22 10s. each .. ..£1,104,817 10 0
Less :—
Uncalled
and Re-
serve Li-
ability..£736,64s 0 0
Calls in ar-
rear .. 665 0 0
737,110 0 0
Add:— 367,707 10 0
Amoun t prepaid by Trus-
tees in respect of Un-
called Capital and Re-
serve Liability.. .. 8,190 0 0
375,897 10 0
17,193 5} per cent. Cumulative Preference
Shares of £lO each fully paid .. .. 171,930 0 0
547,827 10 0
Transferable Deposits due 1911 and 1917.. 1,258,090 7 0
Other Deposits and Current Accounts .. 2,935,600 8 4
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (in- ..
eluding- reserves for doubtful debts) .. 667,663 1 1
Notes ih Circulation 106,144 0 0
Balance of Undivided Profit .. .. 34,755 10 1
£5,550,050 16 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, and Notes
of other Banks 901,130 10 4
Money at Call and Short Notice in London 85,000 0 0
Investments, including those held against
Note Issue, and Bills Receivable .. 658,466 15 9
Bills Discounted, Advances and other
Assets of the Bank 8,522,296 10 5
Bank Premises 383,187 0 0
£5,550,080 16 6
Profit and Loss Account for year ended 31st December, 1905.
To Salaries and General Expenses in Aus-
tralia—including remuneration to local
directors, rent, rates, repairs, station-
ery, travelling, etc.
~ Salaries and General Expenses in Lon-
don—including directors’ and auditors’
fees, rent, repairs, stationery, tele-
grams, etc
„ Land Tax and Tax on Note Issue
„ Interest at 4| per cent, oh Transferable
Deposit Receipts for the year 1905
~ Balance of undivided profit
£61,856 6 4
9,379 17 2
2,389 10 3
62,587 9 8
34,755 10 1
£170,968 13 6
By Balance as per last report £30,210 0 5
Less Dividend for year
ended 31st Dec., 1904
On Preference Shares .. £9,456 3 0
„ Ordinary Shares .. 9,192 6 3
18,648 9 3
£11,561 11 2
Profits in London and in Australia
after providing for interest due and
accrued on current deposits, deducting
rebate on bills, and making provision
for bad and doubtful debts .. .. 159,407 2 4
£170,968 13 6
Ih accordance with the provisions of the Companies’ Act, 1900, we certify that all our requirements as Auditors
have been complied with, and we have to report to the Shareholders that, having- examined the above Balance-sheet
with the Books at the Head Office and the returns from the Branches, we are of opinion that the above Balance-
sheet is a full and fair Balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the
Bank’s affairs as shown by such books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE and CO., Auditors.
D. FINLAYSON
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM
D. Q. HENRIQUES
Directors.
J. OURTIS, Secretary.


ALBION
MaKe
THEY’RE WARM
and WOOLLY!
iS
m
if
I
m.
1
se^
feA
£
fdf f
Australian
PURE WOOL
RUGS.
The Albion Woollen Mills, of
Geelong, have specialised in the
manufacture of pure Wool Rugs.
At all the Exhibitions during the
past ten years their Rugs have
carried everything before them.
The Albion Rugs are sold by the
leading retail houses throughout
Australasia. Should any difficulty
be found in obtaining them,
kindly send a Post Card to
the Melbourne Office, viz.: —
THURSDAY, MAY 24, 1906.
SHODDY !
The competition that the local weaver has to fear
most is that of the dishonest imported fabric
which professes to be what it is not; and, since
this cloth is a fraud on the consumer as well
as an injury to the manufacturer, there is no
reason why it should be allowed any considera-
tion, except such as is strictly unfavorable, lhe
dishonest cloth —made up of old rags, and, in some
cases, loaded with clay, flour, minerals and paper
pulp—is produced merely to sell, not to wear.
Ingenuity is exhausted to give it a good appear-
ance at the lowest possible cost. There is no
thought left to be exercised as to its staying
power ;it is strictly a short-time sprinter. Being
produced at a fraction of the cost of a pure wool
cloth, and yet simulating it closely to the un-
initiated eye, shoddy can stand a duty of 20, 00,
40, 50 per cent, ad valorem, and still successfully
carry on its dishonest warfare against the honest
article. A specific duty is the only effective bar
to shoddy. And it is not wanted here. Perhaps
it has some essential place in the life of a city like
London, where the wretched, shiftless poor buy
halfpenny-worths of coal, and pennyworths of
meat, and a suit of shoddy for a few shillings.
But there is not in Australia any great mass of
miserable poverty which must submit the
robbery involved in such “ cheapness.” The
Commonwealth can do without shoddy.
m
Tohe ALBION WOOLLEN MILLS,
FUNDERS LANE. MELBOURNE


Give Me
The Sweet and Good
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable,
from all Tobacconists
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT . . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay ac. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from 6.P.0. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
mHE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
-*• Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAB NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st.. Melbourne.
METHliia
d s
■■ Is superior even to meat and 01
Inestimable value as a food.”
Virchow.
PLASMON
Dr. Robert Hutchison says:—
“ A diet rich in proteid MAKES PHYSICAL &
MENTAL ENERGY. To growing children »
deficiency of proteid is especially dangerous,"
* >
%
Fop Racing,
Polo, etc.
BREEDING STOCK
THOROUGHBRED PONIES
FOR SALE.
Registered in the General Stud Book and
Polo and Riding Pony Stud Book.
Col. E. N. HENRIQUES
Invites correspondence and inspection at
Mursley Stud, Winslow,
Bucks. England.
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
Tklkphonb
3227.
17/6 for 100 “King of All” Cigars
KING OF ALL K. & B. HIGH LIFE.
A DELIGHTFULLY FLAVORED CIGAR that is the best
ever sold at the low price of 17s. fid. per box of 100 ; postage
9d. extra. In Mild, Medium and Full Strength.
Send Is. for Sample Box of Four.
SOLE AGENTS—
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
ti
THOMAS A. EDISON
' PH
THA.S2 lS|S«81?
hm
res
PHOtTob R
The Inventor of the greatest
PHONOGRAPH ever produced.
YOU can buy a genuine EDISON for a very
little money nowadays—as low as 605., in
fact. We have a great assortment of different
EDISON MODELS, and have priced them to
bedrock.
The Edison Gem Phonograph - £2 10s
The Edison Standard Phonograph £5
The Edison Home Phonograph £7 10s
Cut This Out,
Pill in your name and address and we will send you
our Catalogue and List of New Records.
Name
Address.
RECORDS—Is., Is. Gd., Is. 9d. each
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd
••MY OPTICIANS,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE ST. (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
A FULL iIOUSTACHE for 10/6
“ I’ll Try It.’
Capillarine
Has been doing its good work for over 20 years,
It never fails to produce a luxuriant moustache.
Price 10s. 6d.
POST FREE.
UNDER SEALED COYER.
The Result.
CRAIQ & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
f fa
JflßTaddilionfjJijjj
BASED UPON TH E WELL KNOWN'MONTSERRAT’II ME FRUIT JUICE.
fd s
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
u post free.
Three Black Tips,
Cream, or Black
Tipped with
White.
WRITE NOW.
i
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
Prom South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
51 Length, 12 inches.
/“ POST FBEE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Price List Free
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
l_S3s
—-
QUEENSLAND B3ANGH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tai.—
NORMAN BROS.
58 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
West Australia —
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
bered by the hundreds.
r Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
rOHN SANDS, 374 George St., Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent
MELBA ACCORDEONS
M
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to i
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triplo Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all lato3t improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Offioe or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
276-378 Collins Street. Melbourne. .
BLOOD POSSON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols, We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains. Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address s HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS I
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
DEAF
]
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
• Completely overcome Deafness
Sand Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne,
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHINES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC ACENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
“ Reka ” : Met an agitated pupil-teacher
the other day who craved my good advice.
Appears that under the new syllabus any oppor-
tunity for a “moral” kind of sermon,
all of a sudden —must be taken advantage of
and ordinary lessons shelved. Small-boy John
arrived at 9 a.m., and remarked: “ Please,
miss, the reason I wasn’t here yesterday was ’cos
I was at me mother’s weddin’.” Teacher said,
indignantly, “ How dare you tell me such a tale,
John? Why, your father isn’t dead. I had a
note from him two days ago.” “No, miss,” said
John, agreeably, “heaint dead. But it was me
uncle mother was marryin’ yesterday.” Teacher
gasped, and the opportunity was lost. Two days
later a policeman called for John’s books, and re-
ported his removal to an industrial school, his
mother not being a “fit and proper person.”
“ What I want to know,” said the harassed
teacher, “is about that moral lesson. Do you
think I ought to have given one ? ”
“ H.L.” : I have a number of nude art
pictures and photos, in my bedroom, and every
week when it is turned out I notice that the pic-
tures are back to front, and the photos, under the
mats or behind the looking-glass. I asked our
Merely the whyfore yesterday, and she informed
me heatedly that she had always been brought up
respectable, and that she wouldn’t dust brazen
hussies that got took with nothing on for nobody.
The verdict of £l3O given by District
Court Judge Backhouse in the case of Portus v.
Lathrop accumulates the injustice that may result
to litigants in the inferior courts, if a system of
hurry-scurry in the administration of justice is
pursued by impatient Judges. Last week the
same Judge entered a judgment of non-suit in this
case against the plaintiff, although a few minutes
before he had been told by plaintiff’s counsel that
he was appearing. The sudden-death method of
the Judge seems to have been the more gratuitous
and capricious, seeing that the case immediately
preceding was in the throes of settlement, and in
any event his Honor must have remained on the
Bench until the result of the settlement was an-
nounced.
As it strikes a man who came down to
Sydney from the back of Bourke to see the
Show: —
Everywhere I see “ Keep to the Right.” Along every
pathway leading to every public institution the signs occur
in endless procession ; at railway stations, on the streets,
everywhere. Yet Sydney meanders about, and straggles
from one side of the pavement to the other, as if it didn’t
own its legs; and any innocent man is likely to be
accused of trying to kiss a damsel because she happens to
run into him, when she ought to be ten yards away. I
suggest posting up—“ Goats to the Left.” Then there
might be a rush to the right.
Hobart Muckury partially woke up the
other morning (it never completely wakes up) to
find itself in a cold sweat of horror. It had
printed a slobbering leaderette about Empire
Day, and had mentioned the special issue of “ The
School Paper ” “ adorned with portraits of royalty
dead and dying.” It is one of the silly old fads of
the “ Empire Day” person to always picture the
sovereign as in the first bloom of health ; and
when the Muckury realised that it had repre-
sented Edward and liis wife as “dying” instead
of “living,” it groaned, and gave up all hope of
ever being anything more than a C.M.G.


§£ Britisb*J!ustralasian
Jv
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.O.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
* A ivC vlU* j n advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. J. E. 80ANTLEBURY.
Australian Representative, Mr. SAMUEL A. MILLS.
The Bbitish-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its British circulation, to the teeming
millions of Great Britain.
The British-Australasian is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly suitable; also Australian
stories, sketches, verse, &c., &c.
DUNKLINC’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
KEMUUMME
No. I—Qunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute lie-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 lOs.
No. 3 —Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address In
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
SoldV
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia. \
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 216
ďf
Lockwood Bros.f Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd; Posted, Bd.
VA\\
VA & Iks
H|= COCOA. OF THE OLD COUNTRY.
(ADBURYS
i-m A&soluteJy Pur£
Cocoa
It is the purest ai\d nvost
cocoa irvuse. It’s ivicest too. «dr' <£r-
<frf£ MNC£f sa/s s is of highest punt/.
883
from all n
GranpWeras
lncludlitf]\ ,ic '' c -
Record
sfdnortoobANl
NiCOLE—-
UNIVERSAL RECORPS
Of the World’s Greatest Artists, Bands and
Orchestras, lOin. and 7in. Records, will fit
any and every Disc Talking Machine.
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE.
NKOLEPNONES
TWO SPECIAL ■»
INSTRUMENTS
The Colonial,
The New Standard.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE on application.
W. G, KING,
SOLE
AGEIST.
316 George St.,
SYDNEY.
d d
A CHAMPION ■
RAZOR^O
THE PLUM!
Worth its weight in gold to the man who wants a
clean, easy shave in quick time. Requires no grinding,
gives no trouble. Made of specially tempered steel-
hollow ground—the finest razor ever sold at or near
the price.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6;
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-/
Single Razor, ivory Handle, 15/-;
Pair in Handsome Case, 301-
POST FREE to Any Part of Australasia.
Sole
Agknts
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St.
SYDNEY.
đ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
dinnefordU
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
imxrma
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
■sf
m
&
jt«S
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AKO
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T-n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents" Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne.
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES-
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAIL.S.
Ask your Chemist fop the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
DO IT NOW !
WHAT?
RECAIN YOUR HEALTH, IF IT IS LOST.
TAKE MEASURES TO PRESERVE IT, IF IT IS FAILING.
Good Health is the greatest blessing mankind can
experience. It means not only the power to vigor-
ously engage in the contest of everyday life, but
the ability to enjoy the fruits of success; the
intuitive conviction that one is the equal of his
fellow, and the joy of the fight that is found in the
fighting—in short, it means Energy, loree, Vitality
and Power. WHY BE WITHOUT IT ?
WEAK, AILING and DESPONDENT MEN, recover
your Strength. Get rid of that Tired, Languid
Feeling-. Be young again. Health is yours for the
asking. Don’t cast aside the Pearl that isbeyond
Price. Consult the Specialists of the DR. LANGSTON
INSTITUTE. Their experience extends over many
years of successful practice. THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURE, when a case has been undertaken.
„ „ _ . AT _ nerve BLOOD or SKIN DISEASES can consult no Higher Authorities than the
Sufferers from Ncnytz, INSTITUTE, We cure, to stay cured, and
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS THE LATEST
DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL SCIENCE. IT NEVER FAILS.
WRITE
at once for Dr. Langston’s
latest medical work ( Illus. )
“ MENS SANA IN CCRPORE SANO.”
It tells you what you want to know,
and what you
ought to know.
POSTED FREE.
« Dr. Langston Institute
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free. Established 1887•
All Communications
Sacredly Confidential.
Mention this Paper
when writing.
WHY ?
AERTEX CELLULAR
OPINIONS OF THE BRITISH MEDICAL PRESS:—
The Lancet. —The idea embodied in the Aertex
Cellular cloth is that of providing' ready means
of escape from perspiration as vapor.
British Medical Journal.— Aertex Cellular
cloth affords a free escape to the skin exhala-
tions. , .
The Hospital.— Aertex Cellular cloth is light,
remarkably warm, and is manufactured on
scientific principles.
The Broad Arrow. —We regard Aertex Cellular
goods as a special boon to officers of both ser-
vices.
The Queen. —Aertex Cellular cloth is porous, so
that all that ought to be eliminated from the
skin is allowed to escape.
The Era.— Aertex Cellular garments promote the
cleanliness of the skin by their non-absorbent
qualities.
Cycling.— ln our opinion there is nothing like the
well-known Aertex Cellular clothing to ward
off King Winter’s chill breath and searching
sting.
Golf.— Aertex Cellular cloth is not only lighter, but
better ventilated than ordinary fabrics, and is
easier to wash.
The Gentlewoman.— lt combines lightness
with warmth in a satisfactory manner not
attained by any other material for underwear. |
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
94 King Street , Sydney.
Don't
waste time in
expert men ting.
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increase
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
OflMge
£ungTonrc
tobethe WORLD'S CUBE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can ba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
foO
BOSISTOS
“PARROT ■
brand
EUCALYPTUS OIL
a a/d REFUSE
SUBSTITUTES-
sds
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qui stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years. _ _
LATEST
i MODELS
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Kim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
'o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
200
all makes,
good as new,
Second-Hand Cycles
£1 to £2*lo
Great factory clearance sale at ha'f factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
_ machine. Active Agents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily made.’
free catalogues and our tpecialofler, usmg suffiueiit post g .
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c..Ualrp i e •
MEAD CYCLE COm Dept. 839
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
fAT FOLKS
REDUC E
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No striot diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
JAS. CRAIG 4. CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne
“ 5.0.” : Will the Society for the Preven-
tion of Cruelty toHumanßeings, orsomesuchbody,
interfere on behalf of the juveniles employed to
push hand-trucks about Sydney? Of late I have
noticed scores of mere children pushing heavily-
loaded trucks of merchandise. To employ boys for
men’s work is mean, for horses’ work it is wicked.
About White Australia —a cry from Mel-
bourne :
When the man who says “ la Allah illah Allah ” every
time he prays and the man who wears a turban on his
head and Singh at the end of his name meet, there are
always rows, and cuts, and blood. All the hawkers from
the country were in Melbourne a few weeks ago, and
right round the top end of Exhibition-street was always
hideous with the yells and arguments of the opposing
sects. The police could do nothing, for the Indian is so
constituted that he can always line up an army of witnesses
to swear to anything. Out of about 24 rows that occurred
only one arrest was made. The captured person was
alleged to have nearly murdered a Hindu, but nobody
who knows anything about these things expects that,
guilty or innocent, he will be punished. The only
cure for the Indian pest is the expulsion of the
whole crew. It is not enough to keep them out-
side now. We have too many inside, and we must get
rid of them. Exhibition-street, Latrobe-street, Mackenzie-
Btreet, Lonsdale-street, and Little Lonsdale-street —all
round the Indian quarter—are crowded with nigger
children, who patter strange dialects and have faces like
baboons and minds like savages. Having got a little
Asiatic exclusion, we should decide on a darned lot of
Asiatic deportation.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
, _ *Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON ..
CAPETOWN and NATAL V £l3 13s to £3l io B
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine,
lor Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
... . Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
~? I vc ! n URNE , Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LID., Creek-street.
Banking.
The gank of jliistralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. *. .. 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
-uondon Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
™ Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bunkers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,240 15 0
lteserve(in Govt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDEIi GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— YV. V. RALSTON.
Thu Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLI .MS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,920,210.
Policies Issued 98,461—Assuring £29,270,925.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,503,272.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Haul Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Bank of [forth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPlTAL—Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. ( 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) / ' £370,000
OCE AIN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. latd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Lt.-Col. Burns (Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd.). Adelaide : L. A. Jessop, Esq.
Managers: Melbourne, J). Ci.yne ; Adelaide, \V. N.
M'Farlank ; Brisbane, A. Hamilton Hart ; Perth, A. VV.'
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN General Manager for Australia
ll 'rite for Prospectus 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Bank of ||eiu South [Hales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 o
Beser\e Fund 1.425,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... .. 5,425,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKbllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Uther, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit anil
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woild.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager.
Shipping.
IVT. ID. 3L..
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
sm. x?pi».»«»«.
Steamer
OLDENBURG
KARLSRUHE
GERA
•SCHARNHORST
BULOW
Tons
500 G
5057
5005
8131
8000
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
•PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 9th JUNE.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 7th JULY.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR, 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIJUITKI). ”
Capital Paid-up £457,538 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 66,000 0 0
£699,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, ICdwd. I). Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
LONDON OFFICE : 25 ABCHURCH LANE.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the- World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ƒ
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail on or about
12th JUNE,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC,
and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
OCE A-KTIC S.S. Co. A.. & A. LIKTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY PAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
.. SONOMA. 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JULY 2.
Hot Hull cm ticulavs cmd Illustvatcd MatteVy send ov CL’ppZy to
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents, *
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
WINTER
BOOKING PLANS for the
“ Moresby’s ” three Winter
Cruises, on May 7, July 7,
and September 7* are now
open. On each trip she will
be away about 53 days, and
will visit the Solomon
Islands and S.E. New
f fd
CRUISING.
Guinea, calling at Brisbane
both ways. This cruise will
cost you £2s—there are no
extras; your home on the
ship the whole time. Will
you send us your address,
so that we can post
“ Holiday Hints ” ?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
BauUing, Public Companies, &c.
Upou - all - Classes - of
Security.
Ksasw 1
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
10:
Cs>
BILLS
discounted.
CAPITAL. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
(float de pete D.sl.Go.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
and 17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP '.. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (In vested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORItOWM AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
—THE—
CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
(Established 1579.)
Head Omce— HUNTER & BLIQH STRH2TS, SYDNEY
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life Office
in Australia.
Agents Wanted. GEO. CROWLEY, Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
AORANGI Saits June 11.
THE NEW TURBINE STEAMER,
MAHENO,
SAILS JULY 9.
EXCURSION TO CANADA.
A Journey of 16,000 miles on Sea & Lana.
Cheaper than any trip being offered
in Australia.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
■A. TJ* Gr. S, SEP* I*. 3.
S3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets Furnished Free.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing' Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Shee; of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,000,
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
Insurance cannot quell.
Put the South British on guard!
GEO. 11. MOORE, Manager.
chas. t. Metcalfe, assistant manager.
™ e South British
FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney.
Shipping. _
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo, June 1.
■S.S. Yongala, June 9.
S.S. Grantala, June 27.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, June 16.
S.S. Wollowra, June 30.
.Best and Cheapest lioute to Oold/ields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
Com-
mander
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIEN
VILLE DE LA
OIOTAT
YARRA
Combe
Verron
Etienne
Sellier
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
June 18 June 21 June 23
July 16jJuly 19 July 21
Aug. 13|Aug. 16 Aug. 18
Sept. 10 Sept. 13 Sept. 15
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing theirluggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney'.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
c. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every oniror and convenience at —
MRS>. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 14 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
SI - . HILDA.
largest ana i.esi -Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach,
onarges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con>
venient and Healthy Locality,
riodern Appointments. noderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
lA# IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
" ” Kilda Ilai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clareiidon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
AUDITED AND KEPT.
LOANS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
(late Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.)


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Bec “ r '* l [
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury 8,1,8 intersst
tralian States or New Zealand PT AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any tine.
Directors— Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamip
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Eollo A. oape, asq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S. v „ .
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMEItON, Secretary ■ _
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
•Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMFETIYIOKT.
WINES m ‘°* ° s SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
I
w \
rv
%fr
F 1
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
clean out the rabbit pests.,
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
* cartridges, loadedwithblack
or smokeless powder,
»
are accurate, sure of fire, and have great killing power.
Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets which are very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
!iin>nr.ll■<iiill. BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A. ~i/n m ( 11 :;;MIW/
Beautiful Home Decorations
ƒd
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOLIN” ELOOIt STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOLIN” .ALUMINUM ENAMEL gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
hr anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE ISOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in htstre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations .
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sn Captule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hard m
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fr*par«d only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., * PBUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON. ENGh,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <£ c., everywhere.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH,SIMM
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
WiU Cure the Nerves, Debility? Los* Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Bra, in “*
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
!?£S°6s fld r.?s“f^
BLOOD CURE PILLS. §!SJSf , aSSSM£Ti?2iB£?S&?BaSI
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43,6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
■■■ ■ cm Comnlaints Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Weak WOlTien Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s.
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office: 547 GEORGE ST. P SYONEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
DYSPEPTIC DEBILITY.
A Harrowing Tale of Suffering and a
Thankful Tribute from Ultimo.
The Case of MR. V. BORWICK.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Mr. Victor Borwick is a storekeeper who has his business premises and residence at 286 Crown
Road, Ultimo, and although he could have been found at this address at any time during the past
11 years, it was not till lately that a reporter had occasion to pay his establishment a visit, “ the
reason for calling,” as the scribe explained, “being to get some information respecting a widely
known recovery that happened to come within hearing.”
“Ah ! It is six years ago now since I got all right again,” Mr. Borwick remarked, “and I think
it was about up to me to have a change of luck, considering that I had been suffering for fully three
years. The pains that ran along my gums and reached up to the top of my head were something
terrible, and half my time I did not know what I wa3 doing.”
“ Is that the only ailment you have had ?”
“ Indeed, no. All the time the neuralgic tortures were at me I had other troubles to deal with,
for my digestion was just as bad as it could be. Both from want of appetite, and also owing to the
pains about my jaws, eating was almost out of the question ; but what was still more unfortunate
was the fact that the little I did force myself to take to keep body and soul together had the unhappy
habit of disagreeing with me. And you must remember that I was getting no sleep. Neither night
nor day—for weeks at a stretch sometimes —oould I get any rest, and, as you may well imagine, the
result was disastrous. I got so terribly weak that ultimately I had to give up my work altogether,
and my body was so denuded of flesh that my clothes hung about me like a sack. It was through
reading somebody’s testimonial that I decided to give Clements’ Tonic a trial, and my earnest hope is
that other sufferers, for their sake, will be so influenced when they read mine, and then I shall
consider I have performed a valuable service to the community. I can give Clements’ Tonic a special
word in respect to its invigorating influence over my nervous system. It cleared every trace of ner-
vousness right way, and as an appetiser it was simply marvellous. Eat! Why, when once I got
going I hardly knew when to stop, so no wonder I soon filled my clothes out again. But it was all
good, sound flesh I put on, plenty of strength and vigor behind it, and after using several bottles of
Clements’ Tonic there was hardly an ache anywhere to mar the wonderful cure I had made. What
little discomfort there was left after using my first lot of Clements’ Tonic was soon dispersed by my
continuance of the same remedy, and if anybody doubts the completeness of my recovery, all they
have to do is to drop in and see me, and I will give them my experience verbally from end to end.”
“And in the meantime may I circulate your story?”
“ You are at liberty to publish it in any conceivable style you wish.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, VICTOR BORWICK, of 286-288 Crown-road, Ultimo, in the State of New South Wales,
Commonwealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have read the annexed
document, and that it contains and is a true and faithful aocount of my illness and cure by Clements’
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) VICTOR BORWICK.
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this twenty-third day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and four, before me, W. J. KYLE, J.P.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
ƒd
HEINDORFF BROS.,
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical InstrumentSi
Watches, Jewellery, Eto., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
fd
BATH HEATERS
Send por Catalogue. ~~&3
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood
BRANDT BROS., 236 pittst., Sydney
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
fd
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
!kFURRED TONGUE.
)
INDIGESTION,
' CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY in
ARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
They TOUCH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are
Small Pill. Small Dost. Snail Price.
Carter's


HEALTH
13
WEALTH
BECAUSE
It gives you the comfort that
mere money cannot buy—it
means the clear brain action,
the physical strength, the
bright spirits that fit you to
Seek and iirin fortune.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IS BOTH
HEALTH & WEALTH
BECAUSE
It is the most effective remedy
in the world for the most
widely spread form of disease
—and all the world knows that
IT CURES
INDIGESTION
The first
Essential
for the preservation of thft
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. G. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Eng.
THE high-class washing material
‘Viyeiia’
(Regdo
fd
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children’s
Frocks,
Ac.
From the
Leading
. Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE
SELVEDGE.
A FACT!
Memory
Means
Money!
THE PELMAN-FOSTER SYSTEM
OF
MEMORY TRAINING
will increase your power of thought-concentration and
cure the habit of mind wandering. The best positions in
every business and profession are filled by those with the
best memories ; therefore, if you wish to succeed, TRAIN
your memory.
WRITE for a FREE explanatory booklet,
“Memory {and How to Improve It.”
The Reiman-Foster School of Memory
Training:,
MELBOURNE: Box 402, G.P.O.
England : 4 Bloomsbury St., London, W.O. ; Germany :
9 Mosartstr, Munich ; France : 109 Avenue de Neuilly
Pans ; U.S.A. : 1608 Masonic Temple, Chicago : South
Africa: Lynn Buildings, Durban, Natal.
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE
A delightful liquid laxative and
the only true remedy for
habitual constipation and the
many ills dependent on a weak
or inactive condition of the Kid-
neys, Liver and Bowels* Plea-
sant to the taste, and prompt,
gentle and thorough in action.
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
is now without doubt the most
widely appreciated household
medicine. Doctors everywhere
recommend California Syrup of
Figs because it strengthens the
organs, whilst at the same
time thoroughly but gently
cleansing the sluggish system.
AGREEABLE, MILD AND SURE
Gravel and Stone Can be Cured.
From Mr. G. Lucas tobacconist, Kapunda, S.A., 7th December, 1904.
knowing from'^araOTial l ftvT?Brlf»nno OI Vi Tn f n^ip arners SM 6 Cure to anyone troubled with gravel,
obtaining any benefit. A friend living?ame serio« s ly »1 «' r “© d after trying many remedies without
Warner’s Safe Cure ndviV« T * ?u P j nda * who had been cured of the same complaint by
taking 1 Warner’s Safe Pure *mH Wo * *Q^^^o-n 6
iiipssiiil^l^aiss
From Mr. S. J. Wadrop Mount Barker, S.A., 3rd December, 1904.
ssislisiillii^TSSa
B^sarcMSiirfcstf 1 j^^lftHaauJa&sa
again in vigorous sJentthsh’ J? unbea P\ bl ? P a j n , was entirely removed and I was once
Speri» “» by “ } ° m Wh ° Wi " ™' We great’pleasure “iSnTSiSiufmy
From Mr G. H. Robinson, Harbor 'View, Watson’s Bay, N.S.W., 29th September 1903
S '4=» My docfam „U X
From Mr. John F. Kennedy, Argyle-street, Parramatta, N.S.W., 22nd September 1
swei,>KZr fc^i by sir“ ?«->
1903.
swelling in the 2'roin' Th n" wcnTor. S leal ; P ains m tn e kidneys and bladder, accompanied by
whilst to walk across' the room
last they told me tff it was no use S °J{^K on ** years, and at
take plenty of nourishment. I was kid un feelin^v^J 1 !?' C L ICln n’ , to take care of myself and to
pamphlets. I sent for some Warner’s Safe Cure bfl PP® ned to rend one of your
taking three or four bottles it brought graleUn ’n f ? r T three montbf !- Af ter
S&BSJ f aTw”ri' tSoJ„"i“ SS££Ss
my system he said it was marvellous.”
From Mr. James Grant, Grocer, 126 Young-street, Annadale, N.S.W., 12th Februarv 1903
severe that I almost screamed with agony. I wastreated forI°h 1 ° h at times were so
f.™" I .??''" 1 ” e . d .™’ but obtained relief. lat last of “r getting brt
fl.fft I!nrp oa if V»o/J rvix K,' : . 1- r ■
was recommended by a friend to try 'WaiSt SafeC„re • 6V< V • " -
the medicine for in,meDSe ”*"* " a
recommend Warner’s Safe Cure in cases like mine t 6 «£ stone 1 Passed. I can confidently
many years of agony, if not myvery life itself” ’ thoroughly convinced that it saved me
h a -® be «■* **
BOVRIL
Adds nutriment to Soups, Curries, etc.
There is nothing like Bovril to make a
man feel fit. It makes him as fit as he
feels.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
The lucrative business done by the various daily
papers in the hen advertisement line, which first of all
led them to start a special column in which to gloat over
the virtues of chookey, has now run them into organising
troublesome and expensive laying competitions. The
Herald, Telegraph and Evening News are all engaged in
a laying test, each paper having a few hundred hens
depositing a competitive egg at frequent intervals. The
general reader has long ago tired of these dreary egg
contests, but the poultry crowd supports them strongly.
What it is all going to end in is not apparent to the
ordinary eye. The gambling mania is a dreadful thing,
«« t , h f ee P a P er " ™ a .'’ by getting into a state of
bloodshot frenzy and betting all their substance on the
egg race and the hen scuffle.
* * * *
~ The man on the land has his foreign as well as
his local troubles—the foreign bull gets at him as well as
the home grasshopper. There is every chance of his
having to pay higher prices than ever before forcornsacks
for his next season s wheat. The main reason is that in
Calcutta there has been for some time past a fierce
gamble going on among the shippers of jute, the raw
material from which wheat bags are made. The bulls in
the Calcutta market have forced the local price for export
to a record, and there is every chance of its going* still
higher. It is a queer and not widely-known fact that the
material for making the necessary and Uninteresting
wheat-bag 's onJy procured ih India, no satisfactory
substitute having yet been found at the same price and
Australia not having started to grow its own jute. So
the Australian cocky has to pay twice as much for bag-
ging his crops just because it pleases the brown merchant
ih Calcutta to fly off the handle in the jute market.
r * * * *
The report for the nine months ending March
Vict os ms _ lat ®b' a PPointed taxing-master lets in
further light on Gent. One’s bad habit of sending in a bill
for 20s. for ss. worth of work. During that period 467
SvirAl 8 were taxed, and in all over £lO,OOO was
rubbed off them. Only 15 were passed untouched the
rest being mostly reduced by from £2O to £5O. On 4 shv
shark sent in a bill for £67, which the Master reduced to
£l7 : A f the lawyer had to pay the taxing
costs of £8 Bs., he ultimately pocketed somf
£9 instead of the £67 he had claimed. But
the bigger claims were more moderate. Off one bill for
£3330 but £l7O was deducted ; off another for £3069 but
£94. One claim which caused Justice A’Beckett to speak
for £996 ; the taxing-master cut this down to
n 3 7u v T - he “ an who l vears fche wig and gown doesn’t get
all t he hjgr plums, as is generally supposed. In one case
against the Government, questioning the right to exclude
aliens, the argument turned mostly on points of law, there
being little evidence. The case was argued for four da vs
senior counsel pocketing £55, his junior £32 10s. : but the
solicitor charged £4OO, which was taxed down to £2OO
The master’s allowance for refreshers is £lO 10s. per dav
for senior, £7 7s. and £5 ss. for junior counsel. There
was one unusual bill sent in to be taxed, the Gent. One
being so moderate that his claim was actually raised!
Ev? Ur « fiavHiK 1 bills taxed in the same proceedings,
the first bill practically fixed the others; and, as the last
sentin chanced to be £1 less than the amount fixed it
was increased by that sum. It is a pity the taxiiU
master couldn t give that shark the benefit of the publi-
city he deserves. He is such an unusual circumstance.
* * * *
Westralian fisheries report states that the value
of pearls found at Broome last year was £50,000, but men in
the know say it was nearer £250,000. They also say that
the value of pearlshell is understated by £5O 000 The
report—mostly extracts from British and foreign" State
documents is worthless as a record of the Westra-
lian fishing industry. Certainly the industry mostly
doesn t exist. With an ocean frontage of over 5000 miles
and waters teeming with fish, Westralia, nevertheless’
eats canned American salmon, Italian sardines, and Nor-
wegian cod, instead of vvhiting, flounder, and schnanner.
Some time ago the old pilot schooner Rip was sent round
the coast on a trawling* trip, and some marvellous hauls
were made, especially in the nor’-west; but nothing was
done to follow the matter up. Meanwhile fresh fish is
practically unknown on Westralian tables. Neither Perth
nor Fremantle has a fish market, and the few Dagos who
control the supply have formed a ring ; but, then, that is
done What the other Westr alian food purveyors have
* * * *
At one of Melbourne’s best-known cafes thev
now give you, attached to your pay-ticket, a life-insur-
ance policy which holds good for 24 hours. If vou have
the luck to be killed outright within the time limiL
either by the caf6 s corned beef or a tram-car vou can
collect £lOO from the insurance co. by personal’ applica-
tion or by sending your chief mourner. There are also
handsome consolation prizes for partial dismemberment
bo for a sixpenny meal you can have a ticket on vourself"
for a win or a place, for 24 hours. ’
* * * *
Melbourne doesn’t appreciate cheap beer The
Bourke-street pub. that lately grasped at a straw and
advertised beer at 2d. a pint and spirits at 4d. soon closed
its doors, and the landlord sold the furniture etc fm*
the rent. ’ ’ 1
* * * *
,‘ ‘ x ’, : P u . r washer-lady was complaining
about the hard times, the other day. “There’s Bill
Vs out er work agin,” she said ; “ and Lor’, I d’no what
e s goin to do. Laura an’ Jane, they both earns a bit
an I m out most all the week. But it all goes. There’s
the rent—that’s five bob—an’ food—an’ me ’usband’s
funeral—an I gasped. “ But I thought your hus-
band was dead,” I said. “Oh ! ’e’s dead right enough.
It s a lucky thing usbands don’t go dyin’ every week.
Is burym as cost me two bob a week ever since an’ it
won’t be all paid for another year. Got it on tim’e-pav-
ment—two pound down an’ three years to finish like as
you do them sewing machines an’ pyannies. Lori Mrs
Brown, she got a lovely pyannie, an’ it’s near paid for now"
Didn t cost as much’s me ole man’s funeral neither.
Still, pyannies do make a deal of noise sometimes don’t
they ;an ca nni ’ave another bit er soap ? ” That was
how I became acquainted with the time-payment funeral.
• * * •
“ Z.”: Saw a young fellow with luxuriant, poetic
haw peddling “ electric combs ”at ss. each. The combs and
the thin copper wire twisted round their backs probably
cost 2s. per doz., but their name and his hair combined
effected a ready sale. Women and policemen believe any-
thing a well-dressed man tells them.
LINES TO THE LITTLE BOY AT MANLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do you love your country, sonny, with its jolly, romping
girls,
And its little, lithe-limbed kinchens with their dimples
and theif curls ?
Are you proud to see Australia, the youngest, in the van
Of the nations that are marching towards the destiny of
man? J
See yon shuffling, slippered Mongol so significantly bland,
He is compassing your downfall with a jack-plane in his
hand ;
Ahd his brothers and his cousins to the ninety-ninth
degree
Are weaving warps to drag you down beneath the Yellow
Sea.
Stop your “barrack” for a moment, son, and listen.
You will hear
The approach of Pagan forces that a full-grown man might
fear.
Not the rattle of the rifles, but the ceaseless, whirring
sound
Of the armored car of Commerce—and its wheels are
going round.
Battles now are fought on bill-heads, and where blows
were struck with steel
Now the millstones of the market grind a nation’s bones
for meal.
Do you love your country, sonny? Then shake off com-
plaisant sloth,
For the history of your nation must be writ on rolls of
cloth.
VIC.
JEACH.


the newest IN ...
(aOLF JEWELLERY
No. G9442. —15ct. Gold and Platinum-tipped Golf
Brooch, 35s.
No. G9443. —16ct. Gold Golfing Brooch, 56s.
No. G9444.—15ct. Gold and Pearl Golfing Brooch, £3.
No. G9441. —15ct. Gold and Platinum-tipped
Golfing Brooch, 30s.
No. G9440.—15ct. Gold Golfing Brooch,
32s. 6d.
No. G9452. —15ct. Gold Golf
Ball Scarf Pin, 9s. 6d.
No. G9453.—liiet. Gold, Pearl
Ball and Platinum-tipped Scarf
Pin, 20s.
Send your Order Early as we do not stock these designs
in big enough quantities to make them commonplace.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
«,,riTTMI.-mnTnTTrr n/'WrOVD A PTAPfi
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. TSSS&ST*
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE
LANGTON GRANGE..
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Sen w)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons
6.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Cnisine. Electric Light.
K‘«W' SEKSf Cuyo
Ai- Mle San Martin, U-rfo.G™ “*
Buenos
Africa.
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
For Suits that Suit , in Style , Fit, Quality , Price.
SPECIAL RANGE of NEW WINTER SUITINGS
COMPRISING PURE-WOOL TWEEDS AND FANCY WORSTEDS,
BLACK COATINGS, AND PURE INDIGO TWILL SERGES.
63
MEN’S SAC SUITS
REALLY TAILOR-MADE TO MEASURE.
NOT FACTORY SLOP WORK.
631-
SEND FOR PATTERNS AND FULL PARTICULARS.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts.,
BRISBANE.
Cures While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
110 DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG MD OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-65 Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6 j 4 oz» f 2-3 j 2 oz. s I*B#
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD
NOVELTIES IN ...
YACHTING J€W€LL€RY
No. G 9455. —
15ct. Gold
Scarf Pin,
11s. 6d.
No. G 9451. —15ct. Gold Yachting Brooch, 325. 6d.
No. G 9445. —15ct. Gold
Hope and Sculls Brooch,
425.
No. G 9446. —15ct. Gold
Rope and Anchor Brooch,
£2 2s.
No. G 9454.—
15ct. Gold
Scarf Pin,
No. G9449.—-15ct. Gold Knot and Sculls
Brooch, 425.
No. 09447. —16ct. Gold Knot and Soull
Brooch, 30s.
No. G 9466. —15ct. Gold Scarf Pin, 11s. 6d.
No. G 9448. —15ct. Gold and Fine Pear' Set
Brooch, £4.
No. G 9450. —15ct. Gold Buoy and Soulls
Brooch, 455.
We post them Free on receipt of remittance. Be sure you do
not delay your Order too long. Illustrated Price Lists Free,
CORNER. GEOff g*
S Y ONLY
Have You a PHONOGRAPH ?
fd
If so, what are you paying for Records 1
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE 1/3 EACH *
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters
25 Ash St., Sydney, N.S.W.
WINCHESTER
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
The “New Rival” is a grand good cartridge ;
good in construction, good because it is
primed with a quick and sure primer, and
good because carefully and accurately
loaded with the best brands of powder
and shot. It is a favorite among hunters
and other users of black powder cartridges
on account of its uniform shooting, evenness
of pattern and strength to withstand
reloading. A trial will prove its excellence.
all dealers sell them
f
d
ďf
m
-
ri
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meet 6 all
trains and steamers.
W.
Also Imperial, Toowoomba.
PETERMANN,
Proprietor.


A Talking Machine Given Away
95®. GRAMOPHONE, for 455.
THE ONLY TALKING MACHINE THAT SATISFIED MADAME MELBA
the best and strongest
TALKING MACHINE
VERY LOUD AND CLEAR
Reproduces Songs, Recitations,
Instrumental Solos, Band
Performances,
Orchestral
Selections,
&c., &c.
SEE OUR
SPECIAL
OFFER
ƒ
WITH
Free . ■
Records
And we Pay
Carriage.
Unbreakable Disc Records
Thousands to Select from.
You may have one of
these Machines and
Records Free
B-mm
f** uiwu J*J Tl TYI %V
m _ tt*no« bj Postal Money Orfor or
The Ul| ion Manufacturing and Agency Company
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
is
.„ B ° oK i °s N . A 'f URB AND Illustrated Marriage Guide,
illustrated with over 50 engraving's, new 1905 edition,
s „^P° sted ' How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tines Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings Is
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. ° Moll
Jr landers, a rare book dv De Foe. Is Dosted
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’is 2d. ’ All Sola’s
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
ls each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionisu latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
O „ H ° RS ® B ° OK and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches Is
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handbook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CußE.lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is: post Is 3d
Georgette, is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post]
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver's Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals)!
3s 6d. Mahomet s Fortune Tellino Book of Fate
(Dreamer s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
w Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post
“° s , A ’y°> 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandows Book of Strength, 3s posted
Carlisles Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. 1
NOJV|E CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c., with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is post
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster'
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mag-
i'adden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
of Pleasure, is 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. iHT Established SO rears.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK
BE . GOT FROH THIS A DVT
*
Write for my „
CAN
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wifes Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Olog Dancing Made Easy Is
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage’ Sd"
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Dostec? lB ' T New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition Is nosted
- 8d posted! Tocology!
78 6d post. Voltaire s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Re*,,h,™
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, hm posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G W
Reynolds Court of London Series, 2s each posted!
Rnnw lB i Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers Assistant, 2s 6d. The Wife’s Handbook
2 r d P° sted - Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
lTS CI OuRE NS Is N 9H READI r N^ S ’ l8 w d ' NeRVOUSNESS AND
its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid. Moore’s Universai
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music corn’
plete). Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
P o^ l ’ 18 2d - Wannan’s Engine Driver’/ Guide,’
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
I s 3d - Women’s Secrets, Is post Gay
B ™ IN , Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney
(214)
fg
The
Standard
VVeeder
7i feet
(Patented)
international Harvester Company of America
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
Launceston and Christchurch
CZ
'V
zJ,
62
The world over are taklno up the use of weeders. Prn.
erly used they kill the weert«s weeaers. Rrop-
™ - - rr„,r „* n h s
wfl_L MAKE SO LARGE A PROFIT
TO A FARMER FOR SO SMALL AN
OUTLAY OF CASH AND LABOUR.
... W . C * Wm forward on application,
illustrated pamphlet giving full par-
ticulars. together with prices, and
terms of both the riding and walking
pattern. Send for It NOW. It will
cost you nothing.
Agents Throughout Australasia.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, whicli
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
fd
[ INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
aud affection, cure disease and bad habits,
| gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. Jly mammoth Illustrated
| Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
aud profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifet-tm*.
Write to-day. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, as Pitt St., Sydney-
fd
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <kc. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
~ T Sept. 28, 1895, says :
If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
f
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
80x91 3, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
fd
I T S k T and device without
if P * I cured myself by Galvanic Electricity.
monevll fniH "wT head noise . s > don,t waste tinle and
money as I did. Write me, mentioning this paper, and I
will send you full information FREE. Address—
MR. LEWIS VERNON, 64 Hunter St., Sydney.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
O' RJCORO'S
tsS£<* ce, °f f E-
Tl ,e omy imaiiiuie tterneuy for wcmkhcss & utiJILITY
Lsed tor over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
n n- ® nccess throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame. S
1 rice 125., or four quantities in one for 363 ; freight Is &
1® ***• t/miphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
NERVOUSNESS
having tried In vain every
SEStStr- "*"«.s'»»-‘
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ƒd
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 4.5
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the
name b**
WIDY
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Jjurnal
says:—“Benger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ :
*
FOOD
For INFANTS, INVALIDS and thm ARFIt
BENQER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, L . IyeRYWHERB.
Benger s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
: Sh °f D Z afca black and white
t rget, 6ft. square, and from a measured distance
may seem a rudimentary kind of rifle practice •
but practical marksmen know that it ia 1 ’
waste of the taxpayers’ money send allw
IOfH aZIDg Cartnd - es a runi
lOUOyds. or more away. One of “ ¥ man ’
in our defence system is that fhe ® Weak Spo , ts
r g h
being concentrated upon
swash-bucklers and laster-cam D P !^ UTTed
respondents term “ intricate evolutions
phrase which covers a deal nf u •
4r£E “ht'KeT. Wf fISSfS
Jving s prize-winner, and you hnlH r»f 0
who never “drops his bundle I ”;^and—thoug^^h?*
thin? who P rance ab °ut on hired moki
think fit to sneer at pot-hunters with their vernier
fhat g the Pam 0 (1 81ghts > etc.—it can yet be affirmed
any t r t a h nD-Oand aCCUr t- e i na / ksmen ™ Australia, at
any range and any kind of target, are in the ranks
of these alleged pot-hunter!. Switzerland is
fo'rSn the T St f effective deface
orce in the world, and yet a tourist might traverse
the republic through without once meeting a
wo‘„ , fd™„d^.‘h a "i' ,ine h‘
ftnd a shooting match in progress—iust a
« *^ e ’ r stomachs „„d potting


rn
27 Va|
PRIZE i)
oMEDAISjS
x Tmr is your Cue
When ordering BiCeiard
„ REQUISITES OR
Atheetic GOODS
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “ Alcock"
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled
MELBOURNE,SYDNEY.PERTH.
Wellington,N.£
for BOOKS AN °
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Magic Up-To-Date,-Is.- Horse and Cattle
Doctor, 6d. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
(Si. How to Dancjs, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Little Folks*Reciter., Popular Reciter, Humorous
Dialogue Book, 6d each. Nigger Stump Speeches,
Is ; post, Is 3d. All'Nat Gould’s Novels, 6d each,
posted Bd. Devil in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,
etc., Is. House Painting and Papering, 1/3. How
to Play Billiards, Is. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all degrees, Is.
Cycle Building and Repairing, new edition, 190
illustrations, Is 3d. Macfadden’s Physical Train-
ing. Is. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamf.ron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s Card
Games, Is.' 1 Picture Frame Making, Is 3d.
Poultry Keeping, Is. Dream Book, Is. Every
Man His Own Builder, Is and Is 5Jd.
NOVELTIES.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinas, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURiTY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
n
&
%
Free Catalogues i
No. I—Plays, Reciters,
Make-up, etc.
No. 2 —Conjuring'Apparatus
and Books.
No. 3—French Novels in
English.
No. 4—Books for Presents.
No. s—Useful & Mechanics
Books.
No. 6—Books for the
Married.
No. 7—Advanced
Literature.
Confessions of a Melbourne, Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Gay Life in Melbourne, illus., Is 3d. Hoffman’s
New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d. How to Bet
and Gamble, Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields, Factories
and Workshops, Is 3d. A Midnight Mystery, Is. A
Left-Handed Murder, Is. God and My Neighbor, 9d,
p. Is. ENGiNEER’sPRACTiCALTKSTiengines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Ur, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is.
Sandow, 3s. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, ls3d. N ewTrickswitiiCoins, Is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover's Letter Whiter,
Is. Photography, Is. Monster Song Books, 3d,
6d, and Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingkrsoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
GLEASON’S GREAT HORSE BOOK
EVERYTHING WORTH KNOWING ABOUT THE HORSE. Fully Illustrated. Deals with breeding', breaking,
training, sheltering - , buying, selling, telling age, racing, etc. Diseases —their causes, how to know them and
how to"cure - them. Worth £lO for its information, but offered for 7/6.
508 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
201 BOURKE ST
MELBOURNE.
“snowed up"
[' A not infrequent winter
< experience tn some parts
{ *>f the "Old Country”
In
weatiker extremes
of heat and cold,
noi
©id,
ilhinj is so Sttsiaining as \
CadW 7 i
MII/K
CHOC 01/ATE
A Concentrated Sweetmeat-Food of the highest order.
A product of the beautiful Garden City of
Bournville, founded by the Manufacturers of
of which, The Lancet says it is “The Standard
of Highest Purity,” while Health
calls it “A Perfect Food.”
\w
L_
AIDS DIGESTION.
BRACES THE NERVES
PLASMON
COCOA
I» non-heating. One cnp contains
more nourishment than 10 caps of
any ordinary cocoa.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved nigh grade ELECTKIC
KELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Neryous-
i ess, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ule will aloe fm&rtCj
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
de'ay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST;
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
WHAT IS CATARRH?
fd
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose and adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing |
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia,Coughs,
Golds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete with 4 months’
treatment by mail, lOs.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
Q3HD3
by Dr Langston’s Perfect
Combined Treatment, I
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable 800k —- n
"RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY 4. CURE.
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM.
Vl^R’s
GOUT
PlliliS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1J and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
“F.C.” : Is there no way of hurrying on
a Commonwealth postage stamp, with sometning
on it to bring to mind the Australian Common-
wealth, not only here but abroad—something to
help to get everybody who ever licks a stamp
into the way of talking and thinking Australian,
instead of Tasmanian or Queenslandish ?
“S.”: “ Cheats never prosper,” said Jehu,
the descendant of Nimshi. “ Well, you ought to
know,” I admitted, deferentially. “ Yairs, I give
yer a instance ’appened to me on’y larst week.
Know’Ogson, the corn sin’man ? No? Well, you
ain’t missed much.. ’E runs dawgs, an’ ’e’s a dawg
’isself. I met ’im larst week. ‘Be at Redfern
for the G p.m. train,’ ’e sez. ‘Right-o,’ sez I.
An’ I was. I’d a bin there yet, on’y one o’ the
blokes from ther rank come along. 4 00 are yer
waitin’ on?’ sez ’e 4 ’Ogson,’ sez I. ‘Fat bloke
with wiry whiskers, red 'air ? ’ ’e sez. 4 That’s
’im,’ I sez. 4 Well ’e’s gorn with ’Oppy George ;
gone out Randwick way.’ I walloped the old
neddy an’ made a fiyin’ start. I caught ’Oppy on
the Bunnerong-road. ’Ogson shoved hout ’s fat
head. 4 * !! -—!——,’sezl. ‘Yer wasn’t
there,’ sez ’e; 4 ’n\ any’ow, what are yer gorn ter
do about it ? ’ 4 - !! * ——,’ sez I, an’ ’e ’ands
out a tanner. 4 I’m not a bloomin’ church,’ I sez,
an’ then ’e tells ’Oppy George to drive on like ’ell,
an’ ’e drives, an’ I drives, and we presents a spec-
tacle along the road with two cabs at full
gallop, an’ ’ Ogson’s red ’ead cussin’ shameful at
me out o’ the winder, and ’Oppy cussin’ ’is
horse, an’ me cussin me ’orse an’ ’Ogson.
’Ogson cussed hisself dry at last, an’ as ’e found I
was still goin’ strong, ’e gives up. 4 ’Ei e’s another
bob,’ sez ’e, ‘an’it’s all ye’ll get if ye drives and
cusses from 'ere to Perth.’ An’ I’d just opened
me mouth wide to tell ’Ogson me full opinion of
’im an ’is bob, when I saw that in ’is excitement
’e ’ad guv me a sov’rin. I cussed an’ galloped for
a bit more just f’r appearance sake, but I cussed
rather feeble-like and sorter died away in the dis-
tance, the’orse not so much gallopin’as jumpin’
up an’ down in one spot. Then I turned an’ went
easy down a side street. An’, lookin’ back, I’m
blessed if I didn’t see ’Oppy George goin’ past
again at a gallop, an’ ’Ogson cussin’ afresh outer
the winder. ’E must ’ave found out about the
sov’rin. ’E missed Randwick altogether that day,
an’ w’en ’e had finished gallopin’ arter his sov’rin
’e owed ’Oppy George twenty-two bob. Yes,
honersty’s the best policy.”


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
NOW OPEN
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Flemington, Vic., July 7 •••
SILVER CITY CUP, Broken Hill, N.S.W., July 18 ... ...
NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S.A., Aug. 11...
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
100,000 at 5/2 each.
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
ss. Ticket* TnTVf/ each /os r l?jyS ARY cr’ f9O5 ' ihe Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
m m " *Os. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances
LICENSE theTwlsp R tal E es N s T u h d S AUTHORTSED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART/orToneT^fto n Llt^^^Uu r in Austria £ ° rWarded PARCBLS
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
SHE
1
£ll f#
nn%
. The „„^ ilk Foods close, y approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young mfant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
strong 6 bones rfCCt the formation of firm flesh and
F °° dS absolutel y &ee from any noxious
fn toWn» d hCnCC SUperi ° r t 0 cow ’ s milk as obtained
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only beingf necessary.
The •■Allenburys" Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate thev
are alike suitable. 1
ALLEN Si HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON, # Bridge Loftus Sts., Sydney
drug ha ait
HAVE YOU FAILEr. THROUGH
MQUQR HABIT
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON’T DESPAIR]
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one
u - Ravensthorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
Have finished the half course , which has
effected a cure. I ha.ve no desire for drink,
m fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
°f u - Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 6. Posted Free.
TDe Dr. Langston Institute,
129 a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
tobacoo UABit
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
thce famous hemedy F or
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION
HAS THU T.ARGFCT catu of aatv nxrTiom ' _ A iiUi M
CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Pain or
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY
SoreneS hX CI £ ChXisXl of p Hoarseness,
ind 6 a “ ' W Seated Uh this IS’X!e t 0 has
BEJWARE COUGHS ?
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION
w utfoiujj. consumption nas
aken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
IS NQ EXCEPTION TO THIS RULH.
BRONCHtTIS and ASTHMA..
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING IN-
TENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED
MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —In 1898, I was for four years previously in
Queensland travelling- representative for a mercantile
house. Having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself
a .medical man, and used all kinds of chemists*
prescriptions without avail. I was then staving at Hayes’
Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager did all possible
for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan
Currie, at that time acting manager for the New York
Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised
me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was'about done for
could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly
suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intensely. Guess
of my thankfulness, when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle
of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured me
I took another bottle away from the citv with me, and
gave part of it to a young girl at Southport, and it also
saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan,
iweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out 'and travelled
about 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted
a cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THO.S. ROSS,
Labasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l had Bronchitis several
times since IS9S in Victoria, Western Australia, and here
and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I
arrived in Cairns in 1900 from Western Australia, I was
induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles
and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards run a
mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any
feeling of .shortness of breath. No medicine for Bronchitis'
that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as vour
Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager,
Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES
TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE,
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY' NOW.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir.—l am a storekeeper,
living- in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a
number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing of your valuable medicine, he
tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is
oier 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been in
these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He
makes my house his home when here, and got the
medmine from me. He is at my place now, and he says
that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return vou thanks
for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and hearty
now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part
°* '. ou as may be of great benefit to other people
suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly,
M. GOGLIN, Storekeeper,
Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS’ SUFFERER IN
QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD COULD NOT GET
ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testi-
mony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so
distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleen
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine
advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You mav
depend on my making your wonderful medicine known
1 have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case it
may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam sure
there are a great many people out this wav that if thev
knew the wonderful effect of this medicine they would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully
J. P. BOYD,
Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
SEVERE COUGH.—A FIVE YEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir,—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during- that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and can t be licked.—Yours sincerely,
“ W. TREMELLEN,
“Modewarre, Victoria.”
ASTHMA—A SEVENTEEN YEARS CASE.
{PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes “ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearnes Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the Asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The
mPniPino miitn minn/] J t . .
medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure in
recommending it.”
Writing again two years later, he states:—“l am
keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of
the asthma.
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
t. TT 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr Hearne,—The silent workers are frequently
the most effective and if there is anybody in Victoria
who, during the last few years, has been repeatedly
working for and singing the praises of Hearne r s Bron-
chitis Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman some three years ago was recommended
rniVn ■ y °f Ur ? ron ,? h jf ls °~ re by Mr - Barham, accountant,
R ol l 1 f1 fcreet - an< *. effect that it had was so marked
toothers* 13 SmCe been continuaU y recommending it
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be,
Yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE
BOTTLE OP HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OP THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR
TWELVE MONTHS.
. Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad couch so I
one haß°nHr ott v °l your , Bronchitis oure > and used about
one-half of it, which cured my couch in two or three da vs
My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
of the ™S tWdve months, then used the remaining hflf
H h l-r^ C,ne ’ and Jt cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
Yn „ hav ® li ? d ,.^ n ? y * arm afc Bombay for about 36 years,
nlence v at llberty to use this letter in any way you
please.—Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON, * *
Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS and ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
mv SiU-I feel in duty bound to express
'” y , d ehrst to you for your marvellous Bronchitis
Ptrh,hfe hm f a °u re .’ nexfc t 0 Mr - Cheshire, Chemist, North
Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in stock. Mv wife
being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your
Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate relief, and, con-
tinuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. Mv
and I recommend it to all our acquaintances who
suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publi-
cation if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN,
lElsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT, CURED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, EXPRESSES APPRECIATION
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir,—Accept my testimony to the success of your
Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last February in Mel-
bourne, and was recommended by a friend to' trv your
Bronchitis Cure. After three doses, I felt immense relief
and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished’
Before leaving Melbourne I obtained three bottlesof it as
I would not like to be without so wonderful a medi-
cine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN,
Darlinghurst, Sydney.
HEARNE’3 BRONCHITIS
CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.: Larsre Size
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE ’
m m n a. A m ci mu PROPRIETOR,
. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED RV iin«T r Pr > * " " *
BRANCH DEPOT-
A <33 w ™ R '!ff DE L D “ Y POST T 0 ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
Tel. 3562.


fd
AND HEARTBURN CURED.
INDIGESTION comprises many ailments ; has many varied symptoms. Pain
after food relieved slightly when wind is rifted; a feeling of sickness if
awakened suddenly ; headache ; a bad taste in the mouth ; the recurrence
of food ; heartburn ; sleeplessness—all of these, or any of them, may be
present. They all mean that the digestive organs are out of order, and need a
a little help to get equal to their
work. Bile Beans give that help,
and tone up the digestive organs so
that they can do their work properly.
“ For about five years,” says Miss
Jessie Hay, of Montefere-street,
Wellington, N.S.W., “I suffered
intense agony from Indigestion and
Flatulency. I consulted several
doctors, who prescribed for me, but
without beneficial results. Many
advertised so-called remedies were
algo tried, but still I suffered on, and
life became a perfect burden to me.
A friend, who had proved the worth
of Bile Beans, advised me to undergo
a course, and as a further inducement presented me with a box. By the time I
had finished that box, I noticed a considerable improvement in my health, and
thus encouraged, I underwent a thorough course. By the time I had finished
the ninth box, I was completely and thoroughly cured of Indigestion and
Flatulency, which is entirely due to Bile Beans. I never fail to recommend
them to fellow-sufferers.”
L=t!
BILE BEANS have a world- wide reputation as a proved cure in cases of BILIOUS-
NESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, STOMACH CONS lIP ATION,
PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS, BAD BLOOD,
BAD BREATH, ANiEMIA, RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, and by giving tone to the
system, will ward off COUGHS, COLDS, and INFLUENZA. Obtainable generally at
Is. l£d., or 2s. 9d. LARGE BOX (contains three times the Is. lsd. size).
ile”'
eaois
• m
ONE BEAN
ONE DOSE
A. ®> F.
PEAKS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Slot ice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
The Briny Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were about half-way ’tween the
Salt Lakes and Townsend Ranges, and
(as always) hunting for water, or for
blacks to guide us to it. We were very short.
For the last two weeks the camels had had next
to nothing, and the horses the same. There had
been a weary stretch of heat and flies and exas-
perating mirages for the last 150 miles, and never
a duck or anything flying as a sign of even some-
thing drinkable in the distance. We had been
tracking some blacks round and round in vain for
days, getting to their camps just as they had left,
sometimes when the fires were still warm. Some-
times we’d make the mistake of following up a
distant willy-willy in mistake for camp smoke.
So that when, about half-an-hour after striking
camp, we fell across the fresh tracks of a buck
and a gin, we swore to get hold of those two any-
way. M‘Grath’s horse and young Tom were
unloaded and given half a bucket of water
between them, and McGrath and Bern (our
black) went off along the track. We waited.
In about two hours they came back walking,
with the two blacks rope-handcuffed between
them. Two more horses used up.
The buck was a fine, upstanding specimen,
stark naked (as was also the gin), and with all the
muscles of his back standing out in fine relief.
He was strong, but he had no chance with
McGrath. He talked volubly and excitedly, and
Berri made out that he thought we had designs
on his newly-wed or newly-stolen wife. Adams
ordered her to be untied, and finding herself free,
she scampered off over the plain, never giving her
man so much as a look, while he stormed at her
all he knew.
She was a young, plump thing for a gin, and
Berri, who had been openly mashing her, gave
chase, but was promptly called off. Adams
wasn’t taking any chances with professional
beauties.
The buck put on an unfriendly countenance
towards us after. Berri and McGrath were put,
one each side of him, but he gave himself airs as he
marched along and refused to discuss the water
problem. He was so haughty that we called him
the Duke of Westminster. They went on ahead,
and he made the pace, running faster and faster
till McGrath had enough, and knocked him down.
Then he crawled along over the sand-ridges, till the
camels caught up and trod on their heels, and
breathed heavily on their backs, and McGrath
knocked him down again. Even this didn’t seem
to promote better feeling.
We gave him no water, but he remained
haughty and ducal. Before the afternoon was
over he took us out of the way to about four diffe-
rent dry wells that he may not have known were
dry.
But about an hour before sundown, as an out-
crop or boulder rose up ahead, he put on a different
face, and intimated with sudden brightness that
it was right now. Our spirits rose, and we
bustled up accordingly.
When we got to the spot he solemnly pointed
to the bottom of the stone heap and stooped down
and tumbled some over, scraping away at the
earth with his bound hands to show us it was
almost damp. Then with the air of a party whose
work was done faithfully and well, and an aspect
which implied that all was forgiven between us,
he graciously waved us a sort of affectionate fare-
well and started to make off northerly on his
own. His hands were still tied, but I expect he
would have gnawed through the rope in half an
hour. We recaptured the Duke of Westminster.
We started digging. We’d have been glad to dig
thirty feet for a few buckets full of water, but, as
we expected, the soil got drier from the start,
and at 3ft. the case was hopeless. Our peer
looked blue as we tied him up for the night and
made a dry, dry camp.
The poor animals were even more disappointed
than we were—it was awful to see them. The
camels did everything but cry. The pony Macaroni
had watched the men with the spades, and as soon
as he heard the hard, flinty noise, and knew it was
hopeless, his knees just sank under him and his
nose stuck in the ground, and we never got him
up again. He was shot next morning before we
started.
Then the Duke of Westminster was discovered
in the night with his rope bitten half through,
and somebody had to sit up with him for com-
pany after that. So, altogether, Adams was a
bitter man next morning, and said, with a fine
glare in his eye, “Jim, you just cut a couple of
pounds of salt beef into slices.”
We started again, and now the Duke had three
for escort —an extra hand to ply him with the
beef, which he bolted as fast as it was handed to
him.
“ We’ll see how long he’ll last on that without
any water,” said Adams; and quite a hopeful
party we were on that sweltering plain on that
happy morning.
The beef soon got in its work. When the peer
couldn’t hold any more he threw the last slice in
the sand. Then he rolled his eyes about and
said, “Gabbi, gabbi, kiap, calle, calle, tahbil,”
etc. Berri said these were the words for water of
all the tribes from King George’s Sound to
Moreton Bay.
Tim’s pity was aroused. “ Couldn’t we explain
that if he promised to find a well we’d give him a
drink now ?” he said.
Adams wasn’t taking any, and thought of his lost
horse. “Not a drop,” he said; “I’ll wring his
neck first.” So we all had half a pannikin of the
red stuff we’d got left, and drank it unabashed in
front of him. It was about the last.
He kept up his hostile attitude till about 3
o’clock. Then he stopped dead, and struck atti-
tudes, scanning the points of the compass anxiously,
with his tongue hanging out. We knew now that
he was hard pushed, and meant going for water
straight, and all we hoped for was that he hadn’t
let himself run down too far to get to it.
He settled into a steady sprint, never taking
his eyes off the sand. McGrath ran with him.
He would have liked to knock him down for the
awful pace he made, but had to content himself
with oursing. The Duke was our only saleable
asset now. The animals realised that there was
hope.
The camels lumbered along in ridiculous haste.
The last skeleton horse almost ran.
The Duke of Westminster and McGrath were
half a mile ahead all by themselves, when all of a
sudden they dropped out of sight into the bowels
of the earth as if it had swallowed them.
When we got to the place there was a hole into
an underground cave, and about a foot down,
McGrath’s head looking up, his mouth and beard
all dripping from drinking. “Get a rope and
send down the buckets,” he said. “It’s all
right.”
I was first man down with a candle. The place
was of some extent, and the Duke was stretched
,n his stomach at the far end with his mouth
buried in the stream —0001, beautiful spring water
and unlimited.
The buckets were sent down and filled, and
hooked up through the hole, and the capiels drank
about seventeen gallons apiece. The horse drank
nearly the whole universe. The Duke kept at it
most of the afternoon, and when he got through
he was swollen up like a balloon and couldn’t get
up out of the hole. We had to rope him out, and
his sides stuck out so much that he scraped against
the edges.
We made camp, and told the Duke he could go
where he liked now, and that nobody cared a
hang, but he was in no hurry. He borrowed some
more salt beef, and walked about grunting and
patting his balloon.
G. BRON.
On the Spur of the Moment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I BEG AN life as a clerk in a small country
bank in the West of England. Einding,
however, that promotion came neither from
the East nor the West nor the North, I started
South to look for it, and so made my way to Aus-
tralia.
While I was at the bank, a strange thing hap-
pened. The cashier, a handsome, heavy fellow,
named Gilmore, became engaged to a daughter of
one of the directors. She was a plump, wholesome
girl—no beauty, but they seemed to suit each
other excellently, and all went easily till two
days before the wedding. Then he ran up to town
“on business,” and never came back. That was
the last they ever heard of him, except an odd
notice in the Times, undated, saying that he died
of an accident on the yacht Foresight, no such
yacht being registered among British shipping, and
a £lOO-note, which came by post to Dora Bland,
wrapt in a bit of paper, on which were written
the words, “ He loves you still.”
I had been in Sydney ten or twelve years when
I called, one evening, at the Australia, to see a
friend. As we talked over old friends and places,
in the smoking-room, after dinner, I should hardly
have noticed a man sitting near us but for the
numerous demands he made on the waiter for
drinks. My friend was called away, and as I sat
waiting for him I heard a husky voice at my elbow
saying—
“ You know the West Country ?”
I moved to look at the speaker—the man of
many drinks. He was fleshy, slouching, alcoholic,
but his speech was that of a gentleman.
“D’you happen to know a little place called
Stoke St. Catherine? ” he asked.
“ I lived at the bank there as a youngster,” I
answered.
“ Hey ? At the bank ?” he questioned, and for
the first time lifted his heavy eyes to mine.
Memory wakes strangely. I had thought neither
of place nor man for years, yet as I met his star-
tled glance I knew him.
“ Why, it’s Gilmore ! ” I exclaimed.
“You see,” said Gilmore, “ I was acting trustee
for a tremendously rich girl from God-knows-
where in the Southern States. She’d got a touch
of the tar-brush—the kind of woman that dresses
in yellow and has a devil. She was always at me
to marry her and chuck Dora, proposed to me
half a dozen times, always flopping about bursting
into tears or spitting like a fury. Worried the
life out of me. Handsome girl, too, lithe as an
Indian, and as dark, with magnificent eyes. I
told her I couldn’t have it any longer; she must
behave; Dora was the one I wanted. But a man
can’t be always stamping on a woman, and a
devilish handsome one, too. I kissed her once or
twice just to pacify her, but it only seemed to
make her wild. A week before Dora and I were
to be married she sent me a letter, not like the
howling screeds I was used to from her, but quiet
and apologetic. She wanted me to spend one last
evening with her ; theatre, and supper at the
Savoy after. She ended up: “ You have been
very patient with me. Forgive me the trouble I
have caused you. When once you are Dora’s
husband I swear to trouble you no more.”
After the Savoy supper—and you know what
they are—she asked me to come back to her flat
for a cigarette “and to say good-bye.” Pretty
ass I was to go. She can do things. That room
looked as big as a cathedral, all dim and cornery,
full of some eastern scent, and red lamps hidden
behind curtains. We sat down in one of the
alcoves. She was dressed in yellow, and diamonds
flashing all over her. Her face was pale all but
her red lips and her great dark eyes. You know
what it is after supper. I remember I let fall my
cigarette and it burned a hole in the carpet. She
was close up to me in the corner. She said :
“ After to-night never again,” and drew off the
least bit in the world. When I bent towards her
she put her face in her hands ; I smelt her hair
and it touched my lips. Then I put my arm
round her. She looked up at me, her eyes all
dewy, her lips quivering. ‘ Can you, can you go
away ? ’ she said, and her voice shook me down to
my boots.”
He had been talking as in a dream, his blood-
shot blue eyes staring in front of him. Now his
head dropped.
“ Lord help us ! ” he said thickly, “ I must have
been crazy.”
“ I s’pose it was three o’clock in the morning
when we looked out of window. The dawn
was just whitening. It was early in May.”
He paused, thinking. Then he looked at me,
breathing heavily,
“May weather in England,” he said; “blue
sky and white clouds, pink may, and lilac, and
laburnum, and the elms in full leaf, and the hedges
twelve foot high, full of sweetbriar and foxgloves.”
The waiter brought him another drink; the ice
tinkled in the glass as he lifted it to his lips with
a hand that shook.
“ Her yacht was down at Tilbury,” he went on.
“She put a great cloak over her dress, and we
bundled into a cab. The sun came up behind us
as we got into the dinghy, waiting at the wharf.
She was lit like a rose. She snuggled close against
me, looking out from the great fur collar of her
cloak with shining eyes.
“ ‘ How do I stand daylight ? ’ she said.
“I never thought of the man at the sculls. I
just took her in my arms and kissed her till she
glowed. By breakfast time we were off Graves-
end.”
He fell into thought once more.
“What was the good of explaining?” he asked.
“ I was a goner, I knew that before we’d got
blue water under our keel. I’ve known it ever
since.”
He looked at me again, suddenly sitting upright,
a dull flush rising in his cheeks. “Do you re-
member Black Down, and the barriers of a
winter’s morning ? ” he asked. Then he slouched
down into his chair, his chin dropped on his
breast.
“Here she comes,” he growled, and at the door
of the smoking-room appeared a majestic and
scornful vision, yellow-clad and be-diamonded.
“ Come James,” she called, as one calls a dog;
and like a reluctant dog James went.
A. W.


SAVED
FROM
CONSUMPTION.
TRADE
MARK
n
If
Couch s,™
Colds , c
C R O UP|'
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE
Throat, Lungs
and. Chest.
(SHELDON DRUG C? I
uXaT
, Sydney n.s.w.
COPYR»OI*T E O
Suffered for Eighteen Months
with Bleeding of the Lungs
but Made Well h y -
D? SHELDON Wei
NEW i^OLDS
Discovery^
OUGHS
AND
ONSUMPTION
, Geelong-, Vic.
Shkldon Drug Company,
Dear Sirs, —I had suffered for eighteen months
with bleeding of the lungs, and was given up by
my physician, who said I could not live longer
than two days. My lungs were bad, bleeding
daily ; also I suffered terribly with pains in the
back and swellings. I saw your advertisement in
the paper for Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
Coughs, Colds, and Consumption, and procured a
bottle from Mr. Nash, the grocer. It helped me
at once, and now lam entirely cured. My lungs
are as strong as anyone’s and I have never had any
bleeding since ; in fact, I feel like a new person.
I have also given Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
to my children at various tiroes, and I have never
had anything from either doctors or chemists
which has done me "and mine the same good. I
can recommend Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery to
all those suffering from colds or consumption, as
in my case.
Very gratefully yours,
(Sgd.) ELIZABETH PETERSON.
49 Butamen-street, Geelong.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG TROUBLES.
It has proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
patent medicine, or an ordinary cough mix-
ture, but a scientific discovery that will make
eore lungs well.
To be obtained everywhere
at 116 and 3]~, or will be posted
upon receipt of price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO.
15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
600 D 'GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD
GOOD
SUnuchT
LAUNDRY SOAP
GOOD WORK
ON
WASH DAY
324
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD
A woman
Suffers heroically pains
and pangs that a man
could never bear* Yet
most of these are
instantly relieved by
scotrs Emulsion.
In WEAKNESS,
MATERNITY,
SUCKLING,
LOSS OF
APPETITE,
POOR NIGHTS,
OUT OF SORTS,
‘PULLED DOWN'
through
ILLNESS,
OVERWORK,
or WORRY,
CHEST,
THROAT or
SKIN TROUBLES
+ —_»+ —l—+
Scotrs always Mgs
new strength
and new tile.
+ + +— —
85 Gowrie Street, Newtown, Sydney,
N.S.W. Sept. 27, 1905. “ I took Scott's
Emulsion for a very severe cold, accom-
panied by a short dry cough and difficulty of
breathing, the cold having settled on my
lungs. I found Scott's most soothing and can
truly say that I am quite cured and feel quite
well once more." (Mrs.) E. Metcalfe.
Great nourishment in small hulk —that is
the secret. Purest cod liver oil with hypo-
phosphites of lime and soda. You will have
no difficulty either in taking or digesting
Scott's. The special Scott process has done
away entirely with all that trouble. This
is why Scott's is always
far the best for women,
fgd
Always get the Emul-
' gfon with this math—the
Fishman—the mark of
the -Scott"process!
If you feel disposed to test
this, we will gladly sgfld
you a free sample bottle.
Send us your address
and 4d. for postage,
mentioning this paper.
SCOTT & BOWNE;
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Going on the Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE’S a cheerful little microbe, and it’s
very much about,
And deep into your cuticle it drives its
little snout;
It whispers and it wheedles, and delivers its
command —
“Go forth into the wilderness, and get upon the
land.”
You can hear the microbe whisper in the watches
of the night,
And it makes you discontented, though your
prospects may be bright,
’Till you long to take some implements—some
shovels and some hoes —
And go out and “make the wilderness to blossom
as the rose.”
Yes, to blossom as the rose—in your folly you
suppose
You can irrigate the wilderness with thirty foot of
hose 1
But you’re not the pnly Johnny whom the microbe
holds in thrall;
The townsman and the country man, it gets into
them all;
The dude who finds a boarding-house inimical
to ease
(Who’s full of “ closer settlement,” as practised
by the fleas),
The shearer who’s been “ ringing ” all the Western
shearing sheds,
The “dosser” who is seeking fresher fields—and
cleaner beds—
The digger who is bulging with the gold that he
has panned,
They are jostling each other to get settled on the
land.
They'll get settled on the land, and it's hard to
understand
Why they overheat and bust themselves to get upon
the land.
They are marchin’ through the desert an enthu-
siastic baud,
Each has bluey on his shoulder, and a billy in his
hand,
And they tempt you with an accent that is affable
and bland,
To chuck yer job and pilgrimise to freedom on the
land.
So you crumple up yer bluey and you fill yer
water-bag,
And you saddle yer “goanna” with yer quart pot
and yer swag;
You’ve got your money stitched up in yer mole-
skin trousers’ band,
And you start for the horizon, “on the wallaby ”
for land.
Yes, you're goin' on the land , and you think it will
be grand,
Just a hundred miles from nowhere in a humpy on
the land.
So you wallaby and wander North and South, and
East and West,
While the sleepless little microbe keeps a borin’
at your breast;
And many pints of swankey you get called upon
to stand,
In exchange for information re localities and
land.
But at length you get a lithograph, and go and
pick a block;
You begin to take an int’rest in the price of
wool and stock,
You interview an “agent,” and you pay him as
per scale.
But that’s quite another story, and we’d better
draw the veil.
Yes, we'd better draw the veil, but a spicy little tale
Has been told about the agent and his little sliding
scale.
You have signed your declaration—it’s been wit-
nessed by the “beak”—
You have lodged your application, all correct,
“ within the week” ;
The Local Board is sitting, and you’ve got to face
the band
If you mean to give yourself a chance of gettin’
on the land.
You feel like some stray animal just landed from
the Ark,
And hope that nothing will occur the Local Board
to nark ;
You’d give your chance of heaven for a drop of
something “short,”
When the bobby stands “attention,”.and cries
“ Order in the Court.”
But you're goin' on the land, and the music you can
stand,
If it only plays the proper tune to jout you on the
land.
The Chairman looks you over when the bobby
calls your name;
You look as if you felt inclined to bust yourself
with, shame ;
The impression that you’re making isn’t quite the
one you wished,
And you’ve got a sort of feeling that you’re likely
to be dished.
Perhaps they take exception to the color of your
nose,
And fancy you’ve been drinkin’—says the Chair-
man “Out he goes !”
You And yourself disqualified, dissatisfied, ig-
nored,
And you ciu-se the Crown Land Agent, and the
ballot, and the Board.
And you almost curse the land, for you feel you’ve
been trepanned,
And it isn't quite so easy to arrive upon the land,
But you’re not the kind of person to be easily
pooh-poohed !
You’re a horny-handed hustler, an’ you ain’t a
city dude,
So you pack your bloomin’ “turkey,” and you
take the Northern train,
There’s another subdivision, and you mean to try
again.
You’ve got the little microbe of the land-selectin
craze,
You’ve got to know the agent and his funny little
ways,
You’ve faked your nasal organ ’till the color
doesn’t show,
And you-’re game to face the Chairman and to have
another go.
Oh l the hunger for the land ! You've annexed the ,
proper brand
Of the fever for selectin' that is stalkin' through the
land.
You get into a ballot, and you struggle out on
top ;
You get a bit of desert, and you tempt it with a
crop;
You fence it and you watch it like a pussy with a
mouse,
And you build yerself a humpy, and you fancy
it’s a house.
Yer bloomin’ crop is poppin’ up quite healthy-like
and sound,
Then the rabbit comes a hoppin’, and he eats it to
the ground;
And you find it ain’t so easy as some people might
suppose
To make the blinded wilderness to “blossom as
the rose.”
Oh ! You've got upon the ground, where the rabbit
ramps around,
And you find you've got a longin' for a tombstone
and a mound.
But you get another crop in, and you want to
sink a tank,
So you saddle the “ goanna,” and you go and see
the Bank.
And the Bank says, “ Oh, yes, certainly, we’ll
tow you into dock
For a mortgage of your desert, and .your imple-
ments and stock.”
Then you feel depressed and blighted, and you
think you could dispense
With the evei-lastin’ cawin’ of the crows upon the
fence;
You wonder if yer Fate includes another nasty
jar,
When a cyclone comes a roarin’, and you dunno
where you are.
Yes you do, you!re on the land, with yer fence half
hid with sand,
And a mortgage on yer cattle, and yer implements,
and land.
Then you up an’ curse the land, and the rabbits,
and the sand,
And the everlastin’ livin’ on provisions that are
canned ;
I-n the most impressive language that you’ve got
at your command,
You execrate the agents, and the Land Act, and
the land.
You roll your blessed bundle, and you reef your
trousers’ band,
And say you’ll go and fraternise with Chinkies on
the Rand ;
You stagger to the shanty, and you sample every
brand
Of their soul-destroying liquors, and forget about
the land.
But you've been upon the land, and you've got its
Cain-like brand ;
The color of mahogany your features have been
. tanned —.
You've deep excoriations on your hard and horny
hand,
And your blessed heart's been busied in the struggle
ivith the land.
N.s.w.
IRONBARK.
The Elephant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I WAS with a traveilin’ circus and mena-
gerie once in a big minin’ town, and the
position I held, in addition to purveyin’
bones and actin’ as washer-up to the hyaenas and
their friends, was the high and mighty one of
tent-minder.
In this last joint I had to meander round the
tent durin’ the performances, and in the intervals
of laminin’ the kids who were crawlin’ under the
canvas, had to shift the drunks off the tent-guys
and ropes.
Now, it’s a curious thing, but a circus tent’s got
more attractions for drunks than a plate of treacle
has for flies. All the boozers in the district ’ll
come for miles around and hang themselves over
the tent-ropes, or lean up against the canvas
walls, which is dead against all circus rules and
regulations. As for kids goin’ in on the free list
—well, imps ain’t thicker round the gates of
Gehenna.
This town was feelin’ good and gay then, for
the last lap of the railway into it had just been
finished, and the place was full of paid-off
navvies alternately fraternisin’ and scrappin’ with
the miners. Consequently business was brisk for
me and the circus generally.
One night, just about dusk, goin’ round the
tent, I sees a, drunk leanin’ up against the wall of
the menagerie tent.
“Get out of this,” I says, “you beer-eatin’ son
of a”—-
And there I stops, for he begins to straighten
but, and I see he’s a navvy about eight foot high.
“Phwat!” says he. “Phwat d’ye mane by
interruptin’ a mahn in his med-hic-ations,” and
with that he lurches at me as I backs away.
“I mean,” I shouts, gettin’ desperate and
backin’ faster, “I mean that the animals is just
inside where you're meditatin’, and,” I says, “if
you’re kicked by the elephant, Lord help you,”
I says.
• This seems to make matters worse. “To glory
wid yer elephant,” he yells. “Bring him here
and I’ll kick him, and you too, to the blue bounds
of blazes,” he says, “where ther pigs root up ther
daylight.” And as I turns to run he gets me one
—and with those navvy ! s boots on too. I can feel
it still in cold weather. .
As I fades round the corner I looks back, ana
there’s my gentleman on his old pitchagain, lean-
ing up against the tent and singin to nimselt
quite happy. “0.K.,” says 1 5 ere ,s
where I come in,” and I goes for Mick Connors.
Now, this Mick was boss of the lads that did the
drivin’ of the big pegs', and so on, for the tents.
Says I: “ Michael, I want you to do me a favor
and that’s get your big maul and come with me.
“ Sure,” says Mick, and off he goes ana comes
back with a thunderin’ big maul he drove the pegs
with. I leads him round inside the tent until we
comes to a bulge in the canvas. As far as 1 ran
judge, my friend the navigator is oecupyin that
bulge, and he’s singin’ to himself somethin about
“ Touch the harp gently, my pretty Louise, and
no doubt feelin’ good and sentimental. _ .
“Just about here, Mick,” I says, indicatin the
lower part of the bulge, and Mick, after spittin
on his hands, swings the maul round his head, and
brings it down true as a hair. The singin stops
quite sudden, and there’s a dead silence for about
three seconds, and then there’s the most terrible
screech' goes up into the night that ever was heard
on earth. Mick and me runs like the devil out
through the cages where all the beasts is dancin
and yellin’, fit to kill, and out intb the dark and
all the time we can hear this voice cryin out
Lord knows what.
Well, I stays in the tent for a day or two,
thinkin’ it safer, and one mornin’ in comes the
navvy walkin’-double, with a couple of sticks.
“Young man,” says he, “show me th’ lli-
phant.” So I shows him the only one we has a
baby, about four foot high. He looks at it a long
while, and at last: “Hell to me sowl,” he says,
“ luk at me, a foine lump av a man. Ruined for
iver, an’ not able to sit down in comforrt all the
days av me life. Kicked be a blessed rat av an
iliphant,” he says, and he goes away very sorrow-
ful and shakin’ his head.
MACHETE.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
*>)\
MM
mmmm
mmm
y
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in the West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I had to give up work and
:eek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Reading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Bindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the-muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., LoweU, Mass., U. S, A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
M
t &
m
H ii H
/s
71
We have
the Cure for
WEAK MEN!
As a man suffering from an exasperating Weak-
ness, you absolutely misinterpret the facts if you
imagine you cannot be cured simply because all
the methods you have adopted have failed. Their failure is due first to tin
fact that internal remedies were never really intended for complaints such
as yours ; secondly, to your lack of foresight in not discovering this before
you wasted your money. ... A weak organ, a weak system, a weak const'
tution, all result from one single condition, which may have been produced
by one or several of a dozen different causes. These causes sapped your nerve
life, drained away your vitality, weakened your tissues, stagnated your circu-
lation, and until you renew your vitality by replacing the lost nerve life you
can never be cured. . . . Nerve Life is Electricity, and nothing but Elec-
tricity will cure you. Follow our advice, wear Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric
Belt, and you will speedily recover your strength and vigor. We have seen
it cure thousands, and it is guaranteed in every case undertaken.
Drop us a post-card, and we will send you our most excellent Book,
which will inspire you with the courage to help yourself. It is full of facts
and suggestions that make a man feel a desire to be a whole man, and it tells
of many men who were just as badly off once as you are now, but who
through following our advice, are now in the prime of manly strength and
vigor. . . . Call at our office any day between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m., or Monday,
Wednesday, or Saturday Evening, and you can obtain a Free Test and Free
Consultation. Do not delay, but write or call at once now that you have had
the way to health pointed out to you.
OUR TESTIMONIALS PROVE OUR MERIT.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
? e t r S i r >-7 tr . ied * So : called Electric Belt, which I sent to^^m^oS^ofan^some
quack Herbalists, without obtaining any relief, I decided to try your Belt, and am thankful that I did sn
for it has entirely cured me of Indigestion, and I can eat any food now, some of which I dire not touch
before using your Belt.
,yurßelt. I consider it has also greatly relieved the serious bladder trouble I was afflicted
with. I would not be without my Belt for double the cost. I can and will recommend it to all sufferers
hoping by so doing to help suffering humanity.—l remain, erers,
Your very grateful patient, X. ELPHIOK.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
PALMWOODS. QUEENSLAND
Dear Sirs,—lt is a great pleasure for me to tell you that the Belt I got from you some five months ae-o
has completely cured me. I have not worn it now for two months, and there is no sign whatever of mv
trouble coming back again. My Back,'which used to be so bad, never troubles me now, and mv e-eneral
health could not possibly be better. I must say that you have done all, in fact more than you promised
to do for me. Your High-Grade Belt is a wonderful appliance, and lam quite willing to believe that von
have effected some wonderful cupe3 with it. Thanking you for all you have done.for me T remain ril ~
Sirs, yours very truly, E. KBISTENSEN
The Dr. McLaughlin Co
167 E. SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE, VIO.
wumm onuu« tu»n»
lOOW. MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
90 WILLIAM ST., PERTH, W.A.
54 WILLIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z
5/4/6 B.
ABE TOU BILIOUS?
ABE TOU FAGGED?
ABE YOU CONSTIPATED?
nr /v wit
BEECHAMS
PILLS.
If you are Bilious
It interferes with work, pleasure and happiness. Everybody is
so at times, and in many cases it makes life a burden. The
fault is with the stomach, liver, and kidneys. The action of
BEECHAM’S PILLS is prompt and certain, and they will in
a short time remove the evil.
When you are Fagged
That run down feeling is caused by your overworked digestive
organs not doing their work properly. BEECHAM’S PILLS
will set them right, reinvigorate the system, and restore sound
and lasting health.
If Constipated
It is important to know that constipation causes more than half
the sickness in the world, especially of women. It can be pre-
vented if BEECHAM’S PILLS are taken whenever nature
seems to call for assistance. Comfort and happiness are sure to
follow the use of BEECHAM’S PILLS.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECH AM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 10|d., Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d.
-[l-
LADY'S GOLD
ELGIN WATCH
POST
to any address
fgdfd
This is the Famous Elgin
—Usually sold at £6 lOs.
It is jewelled in seven holes, has heavy 10-carat Gold Case,
handsomely hand engraved, and will wear a lifetime.
We consider this one of the most satisfactory watches we
offer, and it is backed by the famous “A.&C.” guarantee.
If when you receive the watch you are not absolutely
satisfied that it is exactly as described, you have the
option of exchanging it for another, or we will cheer-
fully refund your money.
In spite of the low price we offer the watch at we will keep it in
order, except for breakages, for 12 months free of charge.
Ask for our catalogue. It will save you money on every
purchase.
fd
ANGUS
"The Store
Where £?
Quality £?
Counts”
Opp> the
Barometer,
Q.V. Markets,
•9
Consult DR. MARTIN,
The Old Established, Reliable
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
men
NO
"OMEN
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S Great Work on the
Diseases of Men anti Women, contains 34 Illustrations and
Colored Plates. Write To-day for it. POSTED FREE.
May be had from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6t1., or if you
apply to him now a copy will be Posteti Free for £s. This
Magnificent Medical Work contains 692 pages Crown Bvo., over 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautifully
Four-Colored Plate—the most interesting, up-to-date and reliable
Medical Work Published. It is a true guide for all the diseases of men
and women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books
advertised FREE TO THE PUBLIC. It is a compkte Encyclopaedia
of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-standing,
chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book
has ever been published.
PRIVATE HOSPITAL TREATMENT
>- limited number
—ox sxoixvoMflHMOo r Yi\ ssaaaav
DR. MARTIN,
ELMLEY HOUSE,
151 Elizabeth St.,
[Please mention this paper when writing.]


HOT
WATER
BAGS
TWHg
The Very Best'
Quality, with
Patent Stopper
and Handle.
ďf
Without
Covers.
6s 6d.
7s Od.
7s fid.
8s Od.
8s Od.
Complete
\vi th
Wool or
Sealette
Covers.
7s 3d
7s 9d
8s 3d
f)s Od
9s «d
Perdriau Rubber Co.“
270 George St., Sydney.
ASTHMACURE
ERiIVIAtILTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
PffllcnUy In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Couchs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Sold h, all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
fg
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
WOLF
or
AX
&fio
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hidas, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool "9*l send to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD, SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E, J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
fgd
ƒ
Tl NTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatio Hammer Bock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, oonsuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Btr!otfy ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE_*OE»TSi_ W< 4 j LEMPRIERE,
ITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
“ ' at 64 PITT BT., BVDNEY.
dfd
f
“There is No Better Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO.,
60 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan axd Edwards Pbopy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, .Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand,
-----
m
ft
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in It. S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Bundle St., Adelaide.
A NOVEL PRESENT.
ON receipt of P.O O.
forward to any
of our HANDSOME
ROUND WIRE
or M.O. for 5/- we will
address in Australia one
9ct. COLO-FILLED
BROOGHES, with any
Name or Three Initials, Hell, Heart, Anchor or Cross
Pendant, guaranteed the same quality as brooch ; and
without pendant, 3/6. In Isct. G.F. Twisted Wire,
8/6 ; without Pendant, 6/6. Illustrated Catalogues
sent Free. All letters carefully addressed to R. SIMS, Cold
Wire King:, Cole’s Book Arcade, Melbourne, Vic.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
CARD ORE CONCENTRATOR.
We claim for this.table a 50 per cent, greater capacity, higher concentrates, and lower Tailings
than any other table, a much greater dressing area, much less chance of losing concentrates,
perfectly even surface when working on account of it being mounted on the Patent track-rods,
never runs hot because of the large bearing surface and good workmanship. The table is easily
adjusted, and requires very little attention.
N. GUTHRIDGE. Ltd
SOLE SALES 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, and
AGENTS, 486 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
