

DEWAB'S
SIXTY TETnis*
REPUTATION.
WJ
Milling
and Contractors’ Plant,
107 Kent Street,
—roß
Engineers’ and
•*
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and
GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
M° 2 5
EtOBART.
Hadley’s Orient Ijotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING'
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd,, 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 BENT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE-
HELICAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS, PUMPS, RAM PUMPS,
DUPLEX STEAM PUMPS, SPIRAL RIVETED PIPES, IRRIGATION PLANTS.
Send for Illustrated Lists and Particulars to Gibson, Battle & Co,, 7 Bent St,, Sydney, ...
V
Take it back,'
I must have
ITTON
Pinc-Applc Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
NOTICE OF REMOVAL
The EDISON and SWAN UNITED
ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY, LTD., beg
to announce to their clients the re-
moval of their Sydney Office, Show
Room and Stores from 16 Carring-
ton Street, Wynyard Square, where
they have been for the past 12 years,
to larger and mors commodious
premises at
58 Clarcoce Street,
Four doors north of ErsXine Street.
~Gt&
u
o
sd
“TO THY SPEED ADD WlNGS.”— Milton.
CONTINENTAL TTBES
Are the Wings that
give Speed to the
Twentieth Century
Motor or Cycle.
Unsurpassed for Durability & Comfort. SYDNEY Address : 225 Clarence St.
IS
\
y
,OUR GROCEREOR M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
mm
\fm
&
TEA!
ASK
FOR
ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY.
I3NT BOTTLE
fsd
OIL
No Other in
the World .
ENGINES
EQUALS
‘SI
TING PLANTS SUPPLIED.
RRI
ABSOLUTE
in
Reliability
Simplicity
tfficieaoy
Durability
Economy.
w orry or Trouble
NO LIGHT wanted.
IGNITION is
AUTOMATIC.
No Carbonization
whatever.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
All Sizes.
Stationary & Portable.
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue,
E. Coulssn
116 a’Beckett St.,
MZimiMHE.
USE . .
DELMO BROS.
MACARONI
VERMICELLI
SEMOLINA
79-81 COPPiN ST.,
RICHMOND,
VICTORIA.
HELIDON SPA.
fig
yj
h
<
£
tii $
_j <1
GQ f
0
H 0
1“ »
co 3
in 3
S 3 o
0
V
£
”H
>«
©
■H
3
O
w
A
<
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1382.]
[Thursday, August 9, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE- BEST NOVELS TO READ^
All well bound in Artist
or Art Linen Covers, 3/t
ically Designed Cloth
; each, by post 4/-
Owen Wister, Lady Baltimore.
Upton Sinclair, The Jungle.
Will Lillibridge, Ben Blair.
•Booth Tarkington, Conquest of Canaan.
Nicholson, House of a Thousand Candles.
Dwight Tilton, The Golden Greyhound.
»Will Harden, Pole Baker.
Herbert Ouiek, Double Trouble.
Eleanor Lane, Nancy Stair.
Graham Phillips, The Delude.
Charles Major, Yolanda.
Francis Lvjrde, Tlie Quickening.
Warren Cheney, The Challenge.
’Mary Wilkins Freeman, The Debtor.
Ward, The Sage Brush Parson.
Powell, The Prisoner of Omith Farm.
♦May also be had io Paper Wrapper, 2/6 or 8/-, post free.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . •
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis !
axd Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
f
A. The Larynx, or organ of roice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat. ’
Mr HUDSON’S JUJUBES'*!
(ReoistkrED). CONTAINS NO COCAINE OB OTHER POISONOUS OBOC. Sold to oil
from the Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist. M’;'''oh./jueensland, post Keren t Street W., London.
Depot : 5& 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all Australian Stiffs and N-Z., and at AM ittgt
THE RED PAGE.
OSCAR WILDE
A LIFE of Oscar Wilde was much to be
desired. His accomplishment in
literature, though considerable, is
in the great scale moderate; but
psychologically he is a writer of especial
interest. The Life by R. H. Sherard, just
published by T. W. Laurie (Lond., 12s. 6 d.
net) cannot be regarded as full or final ; yet
it adds valuable information, is wholly read-
able, and so is welcome.
For its inadequacy the conditions of
English publication are partly responsible.
The pathological features of Wilde’s char-
acter cannot be discussed for a common
audience. Sherard therefore lias contented
himself with a sketch which, despite draw-
backs, is excellent, lie himself is a writer
of fluid temperament, sympathetic, impres-
sionable, with a mind that is a mirror of
moods and with an easy style that is a mirror
of his mind. Like his friend Daudet he
seems a man of sentiment and surfaces,
without particular depth of thought or
solidity of judgment. His instincts are
usually sound, but when he attempts to
reason he is apt to err.
Wilde also was Sherard’s friend, and
naturally S. has been dazzled by his subject
to the prejudice of good biography. But
he has laboured in the collection of facts, and
for these and their effective presentation
one is grateful. The book is liberally illus-
trated with portraits and personalia ; though
one misses a portrait of Lady Wilde, and
several that one finds—hotel-keepers, Rus-
kin, French writers—have some air of com-
plimentary irrelevance.
Lhe first thing to say of Oscar Wilde s
that he was an Irishman. Therefore he was
eloquent, artistic, amorous, vain, witty,
ostentatious, extravagant, good-natured,
moody, unstable. There are Irishmen to
whom some of these adjectives do not apply ;
but they apply to the type, and Oscar Wilde
represented the type. He had little or
nothing of the quality that we have been
taught to call Celtic, was not a dreamer, was
haunted by no mystery. His writing and
conversation were rhetorical. They dealt
with outer aspects, not with inner sub-
limities, and were consciously designed for
an audience. Even in De Profund'is Wilde
is not talking to himself, but of himself.
He belonged to a genius-generation, a gene-
ration of unsound nerves. From hale bodies
and sluggish minds the generation of talent
is bred, less hale in body, less calm in
mind. In the second step from the physical
height comes, as the lot may fall, genius
—or disease —or crime. Physical energy,
reaching the highest pitch that the
organism can bear, seems to break like a
wave in the brain, the most delicate appara-
tus of the body, last fruit of evolution.
Wilde had the genius-temperament, but notr
genius-intensity. His mind was feminine
and receptive, not highly original, lacking
propulsive force. His beautiful verse is full
of imitations ; the epigrams of his brilliant
comedies decorate familiar dramatic themes,
like new spangles on Harlequin’s old jacket;
Ruskin inspired the Eesthetic pose, Whistler
claimed the ideas of the Renaissance
lecture and so on. Sherard mentions
that Wilde, because he was a boy, was a
disappointment to his mother, and for a long
time after his birth was treated as a girl,
talked to as a girl, dressed as a girl.
That mother, in the portrait prefixed to
Poems by Speranza, appears like her son
in features and facial contour. As
poetess, she had considerable vogue in
her day, y and probably more than
one Irish - Australian woman bears her
name. Sherard says, truly enough, that
her poetry, as poetry, “ has no particular
merit either of expression or thought.”
“ The Fenian editor, O’Leary, states that
* Speranza ’ was, of the four poetesses on
The Nation , the one who was considered the
least talented, that ‘ Eva’ was held to be the
most sincere and The most gifted.” Gavan
Duffy, however, had a high opinion o'f
“Speranza,” and she of him. Sherard re-
prints a famous Nation article, heroded
“Jacta Alea Est,” for which and others
Duffy was indicted for treason ; and recounts
how ‘ ‘ Speranza ’ ’—then Jane F rancesca Elgee,
though she dropped the “Jane” as unroman-
tic—dramatically took public credit or blame
for the article, and won Irish popularity
which had waned before she accepted a small
pension from the Sassenach. Sherard de-
scribes her as schwarmerisch, meaning that
she was a gushing sentimentalist unbalanced
in her life and her writings, one of those
women with a tendency to slop over.
Another woman who met her, when aged
fifty-seven, in London, says she looked like
“a tragedy queen at a suburban theatre.”
Wilde’s father, Sir William, vas a« famous
Irish surgeon, noted as an oculist. He was
exceptionally vital, exceptionally gifted, and
as an author he ranged from travel to
statistics. According to Sherard, his strong
amativeness went as far as brutality. Both
he and his wife sprang of distinguished
families ; and not far distant in their re-
lationships were McClure the explorer,
Maturin the novelist (from whose Melmoth
the Wanderer Wilde borrowed a pseudonym),
the Ouseley clan of soldiers, diplomatists
and clergy, and certain able doctors and
lawyers. The meeting of two such lives was
bound to bring nervous disaster to descen-
dants.
Oscar Fingal O’Flaherty Wills Wilde was
born 16th October, 1854, in Merrion Square,
Dublin. His father “wanted him to have a
good Irish name ” ; “ Wills ” was the name
of a fine Irish family, fi’om which sprang
W. G. Wills, still remembered as painter
and dramatist, to whom Oscar Wilde was
“ cousin in a near degree.” “In his youth
and early manhood he was proud of these
sounding patronymics. Later on he discarded
the use of them.”
They irritated him. To refer to them was to
provoke his great anger. They classified him;
they labelled him; they wrote him down as cle
so7i village; and this was intolerable to him, to
his cosmopolitan sense, to his disdain for par-
tisanships, politics, and protestations. _ Ho had
a strong aversion from what was local in interest...
and in all these ways his Irish Christian names
offended his taste. [Worse, they wounded his
vanity by making him feel himself a subject of
ridicule.]
For the rest, Oscar Wilde never willingly placed
himself on the losing side in any division of men.
Irishmen and Irish matters have always been un-
popular in the London society to which he
aspired, as they are in lower spheres of the Anglo-
Saxon Mob; and although Oscar Wilde never
denied his nationality lie took particular care
not to let it transpire.
Wilde was the second child. His elder
brother, Willy, was also degenerate from the
healthy physical type ; a younger sister died
before reaching womanhood, and is the sub-
ject of his beautiful “ Requiescat.” He was
brought up as a Protestant, and at eleven
years of age was sent to Portora Itoyal
School, at Enniskillen. There he exhibited
literary faculty, but excited no particular
attention. He is described as a big, heavy
boy who “used to flop about ponderously.”
His conduct was good. He had no notion
of arithmetic. He was not popular with the
other boys; for he kept aloof from them,
played no games, and gave them satirical
nicknames. Sherard refers to his reckless
mental combativeness, and quotes some
pretty instances from his later life.
Of one very famous contemporary Irish writer
he remarked : “He has no enemies, but he is
intensely disliked by his friends.”
Of an antipathetic Russian Jew he said he had a
face like a foetus in a bottle. “He came to Lon-
don in the hope of founding a salon. He has
succeeded in opening a restaurant.”
He wore his hair long, was always very
well dressed, and is remembered as the only
boy at Portora who used to wear a top hat.
“ He was very superior in his manner to-
wards Willy,” who was seemingly very
superior in his manner to the other boys.
Willy was called “Blue-Blood” ; because,
being remonstrated with for not washing
himself, lie “ declared very proudly that his
skin was dark, not because it was dirty, but
because of the blue blood in the veins of the
Wildes.” Sherard relates these things as
showing a certain social arrogance in the
brothers.
Wilde matriculated at Trinity College,
Dublin, in 1871, just before his seventeenth
birthday. This was the marking of his
matriculation paper (with a maximum of 10) :
(Jrreck , two papers—B, 8.
Latin, two papers —8, 7.
Latin Composition —4.
English Composition —s.
Hist or g —B.
Arithmetic —2.
In holidays he travelled in France and
Greece, imbibing ideals from both countries.
At his University he distinguished himself as
a scholar, and won the Berkeley gold medal.
Sherard suggests that it was his characteristic
incapacity for arithmetic which made it
necessary for him in 1883, “at a time when
his name was in everybody’s mouth, after his
successful visit to Paris, and while he was
lecturing all over England,” to go before a
London magistrate and “ make a statutory
declaration concerning the loss of a pawn-
ticket which was the voucher for Bishop
Berkeley’s gold medal.”
In 1875 Wilde went to Oxford University;
Sherard blames Oxford, in part or all, for
the subsequent downfall. Wilde himself
wrote that “the two great turning-points
in my life were when my father sent me to
Oxford, and when society sent me to prison.”
At Oxford Wilde came under Ruskin’s in-
fluence, and helped to mend roads—“ he
had the honour of filling Mr. Ruskin’s especial
wheelbarrow.” At Oxford he won the New-
digate prize for English verse, with “ Ra-
venna.” Presently he launched “ the
{esthetic movement,” published his poems,
lectured in America and England, edited
(significantly) The Woman’s World, won
French notice as conversationalist and as
author of Salome (he was a superb
French scholar), wrote his plays for
London theatres, and became prosperous
and famous. The rest is tolerably familiar.
Sherard collects many data, and throws tresn
li<d)t on many incidents. Wilde died at
Paris 30th November, 1900, in the beginning
of his forty-seventh year.
The tacts are sufficiently explanatory,
when taken in relation with the misfortune
of Wilde’s English environment. The Eng-
lish character is hostile to Irish exuberance.
It is not necessary to attribute blame.
simply the two do not mix. Like Sheridan,
like Lever, like G. B. Shaw, Wilde had
English admirers, but the general Eng-
lish sentiment remained mislike, due to
misunderstanding, and that due to
racial antipathy. As playwright he had
to overbear opposition which would
not have followed men with a tithe of his
talent. Fancy Wilde, an artist, writing for
an audience typified by a conscientious
dullard like Clement Scott—casting opals
before oxen. Yet he succeeded, by force of
sheer brilliancy, in extorting unwilling
praise, and died ruined by excesses the seeds
of which had been sown in generations
before him. Man of wit, man of art and
heart, man of sincere aspiration, as he de-
serves censure he earns pity, and in the
sources of his obloquy are the roots of his
fame.
ANCESTRAL MEMORY.
As to memory of ancestral impressions:
“Nil” writes: —The “I’ve been here before;
I know what is coming next ” sensation does not
necessarily indicate memory of individual experi-
ences or thoughts in the present life, and still less
bo those of a previous existence. I believe the fac-
tors are intrinsic to the individual brain ; and that
the two most important are subconscious memory,
and the anticipation of perception by observation.
As to subconscious memory. Sherlock Holmes
said that his brain was an attic in which there
was no room for lumber, and that he stored only
those things in it which would be of future use to
him. This is an impossible choice. Probably
of all the millions of records the brain makes,
only a small percentage can be recalled volun-
tarily. Nevertheless, none are obliterated (unless,
perhaps, pathologically, or traurnatically), and I
take dreams, visions, portents (in a less direct
way), and*the impressions in delirium, to be made
up of more or less incoordinate and kaleidoscopic
collections of the records not available for con-
scious memory, which is true recollection. And,
to some extent, these also go to form the “ mental
throw-back” sensation.
As to the second factor: perhaps I should have
said “anticipation of conception by observation.”
The eye or ear is quite capable of making an ob-
servation, and the brain of perceiving it, appreci-
ably sooner than the mind can conceive it, and so
place it in its proper category, according as it
appears to be familiar, forgotten, or new. In cer-
tain conditions the mind is incapable of exercising
this function correctly. And then, taking into
association subconscious memory, we have a favour-
able arrangement of matters for the “ done this
before ” impression.
It is significant that the scenery of these
pseudo-recollections is frequently of a nature
likely to be familiar to the individual. For
ample, a person who has never had any chance of
knowing of the existence of a Roman fortress, or
any cognate matters, will, I venture to prognose,
never have any pseudo-recollections of such
things. A man with no (present) musical percep-
tions will not have “anticipatory” impressions
of an overture which he he has never heard be-
fore (I have myself experienced this form,
amongst others).
J*
Which seems fallacious. A perception which
is not also a conception is the perception -that
remains subconscious. The point in the present
argument is that immediately it reaches conscious-
ness it is classified as familiar : “ I have been here
before.”—However, we were looking for evidence,
not theory.
“JnssO” supplies a fragment. He says that when 12
years olcl he was driving to visit his grandmother’s birth-
place in New England. “ I was accompanied by my father.
Neither my father nor myself knew where our ancestral
home had stood. About’three miles out cf the town we
came upon the remains of a stone chimney, and a pro-
fusion of garden flowers gone wild. I looked at the place
and at once recognised it. I got my father to stop and
let me gather Howers, and I was very loth to leave when
his patience was exhausted. I argued with my father,
that we had lived there at sometime, and yet this was
mv first trip from home over four hundred miles away.
On enquiring from old residents we found that the ruined
chimney was all that was left of my grandmother’s birth-
place.”
Ergo, if the idea of ancestral memory hold
good, “Jusso” reincarnated his grandmother—
at least to the extent that his brain-cells, possibly
by identity of substance or similarity of arrange-
ment, held impressions that originally had been
stored in hers—jusso as he may have had “his
grandmother’s eyes,” or her nose, or her trick of
pouring out the “tea” without putting in the
tea-leaves, etc.
L.F. reminds us of the explanation that the lobes of the
bra;n may work asynchronously, the impression in one
succeeding by a perceptible interval of time (which yet is
not measurable by consciousness) the impression of the
other. This explanation, however, supposes that both
lobes function to the same ends, which is erroneous ; and
that there are dual cognitive as well as dual sensory
centres—which, at any given time, is also probably
erroneous.
“ Brehon” has merely had a peculiar dream, which is
outside the demanded category of “ remembered before.”
Several of us have had peculiar dreams, but ths chances
are they arise from the subconscious niemery of indivi-
dual experience.
MEMORANDA
According to The Athenceum, in a new edition
of his essay on Blake, Swinburne presently will
be found piercing and scattering the inane and
transcendent bosh that has been uttered and
written regarding so-called Celtic literature. For
as a matter of fact there is n’t any Celtic litera-
ture worth regarding. And S. adds: .
Some Hibernian commentator on Blake, if I rightly
remember a fact so insignificant, has somewhere said
something to some such effect as that I, when writing
about some fitfully audacious and fancifully delirious
deliverance of the poet he claimed as a countryman,
and trying to read into it some coherent and imagina-
tive significance, was innocent of any knowledge of
Blake’s meaning.
It is possible, if the spiritual fact of his Hibernian
heredity has been or can be established, that I was: for
the excellent reason that, being a Celt, he now and then
too probabl.v had none worth the labour of deciphering—
or at least worth the serious attention of any student be-
longing to a race in which reason and imagination are the
possibly' preferable substitutes for fever and fancy.
That, now, is talking. “But in that case,'* S.
proceeds :
it must be gladly and gratefully admitted that the
Celtic tenuity of his sensitive and prehensile intelligence
throws into curious relief the occasional flashes of inspira-
tion, the casual fits of insight, which raise him to the
momentary level of a deep and free thinker as well as a
true and immortal poet. The vein of sound reason in
Blake’s eccentric and fitful intelligence has never been
adequately acknowledged or perceived.
Without committing itself to details, the News-
paper Society, representing the proprietaries of
the most important U.K. newspapers, has ac-
cepted the principle of Govt, control of publica-
tion of news in war-time ; and a Bill upon the
subject probably will be introduced to Parliament.
The Review of Reviews looked like a hopeless
proposition in journalism, but Editor Judkins has
found what may be a way of solving it—by
subordinating the literary to the social aspect,
and raising a cohort of subscribers round
Humanity’s banner with an H. Saying nothing
about the ends, the technical ingenuity of the
means is respeotable.
Part XX of The Forest Flora ofH.S. Wales , by J.
11. Maiden (Syd., Govt. Printer; Is.) amounts to a
Boon for anyone interested in local trees. It is a
summary part, giving additional information in
regard to trees already dealt with, and is made
uncommonly valuable by sixteen photographio
plates. These are the very things that hitherto
it has been difficult to get, and for printing them
together and selling them so cheaply Mr. Maiden
earns gratitude. The part includes notes on
timbers for industrial use.
Scott Campbell, in “Below the Dead Line”
and “The Adventures of Felix Boyd,” is writing
for The Popular Magazine the best detective
stories since Sherlock Holmes.
The series of primers of “Religions Ancient
and Modern,” in course of publication by Con-
stable (Bond., Is. net) is remarkable for lucidity.
The plan is to take a form of belief like “Anim-
ism” or “Buddhism,” and show precisely whatit
stands for, divested of extrinsies. The books
scarcely reach the compass of an encyclopedia
article, yet are so contrived that they gain by
compression : the writers are the fittest to be
found. The last little volume of Magic and
Fetishism, by A. C. Haddon, is the clearest ex-
position of this difficult subject that one has seen.
Many of its illustrations are drawn from the
practice of Australian aborigines.
The new Life of Robert Burns can be commended
to friendly Scotch enemies. The author is John
Macintosh, already creditably to be reckoned
with : the publisher Alex. Gardner (Paisley;
2s. G d. net). Aim is to give a compact and
popular life of the bard who encouraged us to tak
aff our drams (in an age when whisky was possibly
of superior quality, whatever may be said of
freedom). Macintosh lacks particular inspiration
of style, but minds his facts and tells a straight-
forward tale discreetly (one misses the chapter on
“ Burns and the Lasses ”). There are ten relevant
illus. which should have been printed better.
In Graphical History (Melb., W. _P. Linehan ;
4 d.) J. E. S. Henerie develops ingeniously a
method of plotting facts in relation to dates, s® as
to give at a glance the historical value of a move-
ment or epoch. The idea is worth scrutiny bv
teachers, who may devote it to better purpose than
Mr. Henerie does. His suggestions for detailed
study of English history imply so much wasted
time for an Australian boy, who, in primary
schools at least, wants to learn things of real
utility. All that the primary Australian scholar
needs of English history is a summary and know-
ledge where to find details if he need them.
Then he will have time to learn a summary of
the history of the world. There is a yarn of
Johnny Paterson, the Victorian painter, which
says that he commented upon the departure of a
man who had told him certain gross stories with,
“ Eh ! but the mind o’ yon mon is verra much oot
o’ drawing ! ” And Mr. Henerie’s historical mind
is very much out of Australian perspective.
A freak triolet from N.Y. Bookman :
THISTRIOLET
I SLITTLEFUN
S OHARDTOGET
THISTRIOLET
I NFUNANDYET
E X ACT LTD ONE
THISTRIOLET
I SLI TTLEFUN
Every student of human nature(says The Radies’
Field) must have been struck with the extraordinary
vitalityand vigour possessed byall thoroughly disagreeable
persons. They invariably exceed the allotted threescore-
and-ten span of life.
The second number of The Antiquarian Gazette,
published by Isidore Kozminsky at 339 Collins-street,
Melbourne, combines for readers pleasure arid business,
and is welcome as far as it goes. At present it goes only
four pages farther than the cover.
A good new sixpenny is The Procession of Life,
by H, A. Vachell.. .Haeckel’s Evolution of Man (6tf. net
for Part I) is worth I*. intrinsically, and humanly is in-
valuable. Commended particularly to studious youth,
to meditative bushnien, to school-teachers, to workers
libraries. Part II will be ready' by the year-end: the two
parts are one indispensable, if you don’t know them.
J. Say. : The pleasure of labour must remain your re-
ward. Critically: you want piquancy.
A .O.S.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to : —
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS for Sporting Material.
MICK
SIMMONB
'
THE GLOBE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, top lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks,left choke, patent
D. &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 6/2. 3
Leston
Daly
Coy.
0.8.8. L,
Gun
sdf
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, e x t, e n sl °n
rebounding looks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage— N.E.W., is 9 ,
CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d .. •• •• • • •• ‘inn rib
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension ,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b. . . • ■
Postage-N.S.W., 2s 9d; Inter-State, 6s 2d _ „ .
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Gross Bolt.
Postage-N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
£3
Postage on 1 Gun, 2s 9d
iN.fc. .;5s 2d Inter-State.
mm
m
National Arms Co. s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, top lever, rebounding bar locks, Greener cross bolt, Siemen’i
steel barrels, left choke, pistol walnut stock ; weight, about 71b.
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’!
“The Reliable,
£6 12s 6d
»
D 8.8. L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Pore-end,
chambered for 2|in. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Pottage, 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State
dsf
Mick Simmons
ds
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deelev-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s 9d N.S.W.; 5s 2d Inter-State
£l2 12s
The Celebrated
“MAINE ’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2|lb.
THE MAINE
r?iFie
tSheu/ing Pi fie Apart'
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE —N. S. W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE! 2/2 EXTRA.
fds
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2}lb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.P., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2Jlb.
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d
Remington S.S. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.P., 20in. barrel, weight Silb. Postage—
N.S.W., is 6d ; Interstate, 2s
13s 6d
18s Od
16s Od
Btovens’
'•Little Krag.
m
Btevens’ S.S. “ Little Kra.g,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
sight, with Y sight if required, 6d extra ; length over all 36in., Q 1 n
weight about SJlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ;2s 8d Inter-State).. mXS
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers* Guide and Hints on Fishing— Post Free.
Folding Orchard Gun,
410 g.
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 410 g. side lever
action, finest Siemen’s Steel 24in. Barrel,
case hardened locks, length over all 38Jin,
weight about 41bs., Walnut Stock AF-
Postage on 1 Gun, 1/9 N.S.W. ;
3/2 Interstate.
fds
We can now
supply these
guns with
skeleton
stocks same
price.
f
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open eights, weight about 3flb • •
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
dsf
Marlin Repeating: nine.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 26 short,
20 long, or 18 long Rifle Cartridges), weight 6Jlb
1897 Model, 241 n. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding rear sights, weight 6jlb. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 8d ; Inter-State, is 2d)
Mick
Simmons
£3
£4
CONICAL W
a. 3*e iwcxjnxrxTioaxr.
Gun Cartridges.
UNIVERSAL CARTRIDGES
UNIVERSAL
NEW RIVAL
NEW CLUB
“ E. 8.” SMOKELESS
AMBERITE
ELEY’S “ E.O.
BALLISTITE
12g.
16g.
12g.
12g.
12g.
12g.
12g.
12g.
per 100
6s Od
6s
6s
6s
8s 6d
10s 6d
11s 9d
11s Od
Cartridges can now bo sent by Boat to any
Queensland Port at ordinary Goods Freight.
Pea Rifle Cartridges.
BULLETED No. 1, od, 9d ; No. 2, Is 3d ; No. 3, Is 9d 100
SHOT No. 1, Is 3d ; No. 2, Is 9d ; No. 3,2 s od, 4s „
Rifle Cartridges ,
WINCHESTER, 22 Conical
~ 22 Short
~ 22 Long
„ 22 Long Rifle ~
„ 22 Extra Long..
$lOO $lOOO
Is Od 9s 0d
Is Id 10s Od
Is 3d 12s Od
Is 0d 13s Od
2s Od 18s Od
LAWN TENNIS.
' tNF&KY
a/e
Hanmcap
6/-
STAMbARb
7/3
I
Ascot
2/0
Postage on 1 Racquet, 9d N.S.W. ; Is 2d incer-State.
The above four lines of Racquets are absolutely the best value
in Australia, and are a new departure in the Racquet Trade.
F. H. AYRES’ RACQUETS.
Child’s .. 3s 9d, 4s 9d
Pull Size .. 6s 6d, 7s 6d
Sandown .. .. 8s 9d
Handicap .. .. 12s 6d
A 1 14s 6d
Cork Handle .. 16s
Champion .. .. 19s 6d
Central Strung .. 24s
SLAZENCER’S RACQUETS.
.. 13s 6d
18s
Renshaw
Demon
Whitehouse .. 28s
“E.G.M.” .. .. 80s
“Doherty” .. 36s
TENNIS BALLS. doz .
Grey or Terra Ootta 4s 6d
Challenge, cov. reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s grey reg. 9s 6d
Slazenger’s cov. .. 16s
Ayres’ grey reg. .. 8s 6d
Ayres’ cov. reg. .. 9s 6d
Ayres’ Cyprus .. 12s 6d
Ayres’ Handicap .. 16s
Ayres’ Champion .. 16s 6d
MICK SIMMONS’ SPORTING GOODS
BOXING GLOVES .
Postage on 1 Set, Is N.S.W. ; Is 8d inter-State.
Boys’ Oloth, 6s set
Boys’ Chamois, 6s, 6s 6d set
Boys’ Tan, 6s, 7s set
Men’s Practice, Boz., 6s 6d set
Men’s Chamois, Boz., 8s set
Men’s Tan, Boz., 8s 6d set
Men’s Special Value “ O.B.B.” Boz. Fighting
Gloves, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d set; 60z.,
12s 6d set
Men’s Superior Gold Cape or Chamois, Champion
shape, Boz., 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s, 26s set
Bryan’s Best Champion, 4, 6 or Boz., 19s, 21s set
Bryan’s 2nd quality, 6 or Boz., 15s 6d set
MICK SIMMONS
'
The “ARMY,” 18s 6d
PUNCHING BALLS
(Postage on ordinary ball, 9d. N.S.W., Is 2d Interstate).
Complete. Each.
" ARMY,” Bound Shape, soft tan leather, cover, 1 piece top, and welted
seams. These balls are very light, suitable for fast work 7s 6d, 10s 6d, IBs
“ ARMY;” Regulation Style, finest selected calf-skin, double stitched, welted
seams, reinforced throughout, very fast 16s 6d, 21s, 255, 80s
“ARMY,” Pear Shape, else similar to above ~.27s 6d, 35s
“ ARMY,” Round Shape, made from heavy selected cow-hide, very strong,
suitable for club use 11s 6d, 15s, 18s, 18s 6d, 20s, 25s
“ EXPERT,” Medium Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for
ceiling attachment, made with fine grain leather, 1 piece top,
reinforced 8s 6d, 14s, 21s
“ EXPERT,” Regulation Size, with rubber cord for floor, and rope for ceiling
attachment, made with solid cow hide 16s 6d, 20s, 21s
THE
ASCOT
Mick Simmon*
ASCOT, No. 1, Pol. Wood Box, 4 horses, 6s ; post 9d N.S.W.,
ASCOT, No. 2, Pol. Wood Box, 6 horses, 7s 9d ; post Is N.S.li
ASCOT, No. 3, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, 11s; post Is N.l
ASCOT, No. 4, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, larger, 13s 6'
2s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 5, Pol. Mahogany Case, 6 horses, lined tray,
N.S.W., 3s 2d Inter-State.
ASCOT, No. 6, Pol. Mahogany Case, 8 horses, sup., 27s 6d ;
Is 2d Inter-State.
7., Is 8d Inter-State.
VW., lsBd Inter-State
d ; post Is 3d N.S.W.,
18s 6d; post Is 9d
post 2s N.S.W.
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


reat Medical Experts
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN,
Director of Institute.
SPECIALISTS WHO CURE.
MEN!
If afflicted with a disease which, if
not cured, means death, you
require the aid of a medical expert
who can cure you swiftly. Consult the Specialists of
The Freeman & Wallace Medical Institute
whose names are household words of thirty years’ standing
throughout Australia. They treat diseases others have
aggravated by tampering. A day’s delay may mean
Death. Do not wait. To-morrow you may be too ill to
write or act. You can be cured if curable.
Serious Diseases Afflicting the Male Sex
are Specialities of the Medical Staff of the Institute, of
whom Dr. R. Wallace, M.D., who is registered by
Australian, English, and American Boards, is Physician-
in-Chief. By their wonderful Home Treatment system,
men can be cured in their homes as if personally examined.
Blood Diseases are treated with singular success. If you
cannot call, write. It will cost nothing. The Specialists’
professional opinions are given FREE-
Dr. RICHARD WALLACE, M.D.
Physician-i7i- Chief.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE MEDICAL INSTITUTE
Each Specialist associated with this great Institute is a Graduate from famous English and American Colleges, and they are
under a Bond of £lOOO for the faithful performance of all Medical contracts undertaken. In order to convenience patients
residing in the Southern and Western States of Australia a Branch of the Institute has been opened in Melbourne, at
Bourke and Elizabeth Streets., opp. G.P.O, AH Correspondence to this Branch is supervised by the Physician-in-Chief,
who is registered by Australian, English and American Medical Boards. Advice or Consultation is Free.
Blood Diseases
One of the most serious of diseases is that
of the blood arising from specific causes.
The blood is the life, and if polluted the
whole machinery of the body is assailed.
Victims to blood diseases are in a serious con-
dition. If not attended to at once they
will surely die. No one but skilled scientific
experts should attempt to treat them.
Insidious and subtle, undermining the
health, affecting every vital organ, they kill
quickly.
They are Desperate Diseases
requiring desperate remedies. Their origin I
is not obscure to the skilled medical man
who has specially studied them. This is the !
class of disease with which the medical staff i
of the Institute are familiar. Ninety per '
cent, of such diseases are permanently cured |
by them. Any sufferer may be convinced of '
proof of cure by writing to the Specialists 1
for Pamphlet of Testimonies of remarkable I
cases cured by them, mailed free. Sufferers '
may find there cases similar to their own. 4
>m
I
ksi
a
T//JS MEDICAL INSTITUTE, SYDNEY.
Strengthless Hen
Men who are deficient in Vital Power from
many causes, at thirty are prematurely old,
lacking the power, the energy to be a success
in life and to enjoy it domestically and
socially. Such men are only half-men, the
contempt and pity of their fellows. A man
should be strong, full of purpose, suceeßsful
in strength, no man’s inferior.
The Specialists Make Such Men.
A man will continue to degenerate if
lacking the essential power of the man. It
is the law of Nature, the survival of the
fittest. Thousands of Weak Men have been
cured at the Institute, have been made
strong and healthy, and are living advertise-
ments to the Specialists’ skill, who may be
consulted Free of Charge, by letter or per-
sonally, by any man who has doubts about
his condition. Such advice is invaluable
coming from men whose professional skill as
medical experts is unequalled in Australia.
It is the Most Scientific
Throughout Australasia.
Over £lOO,OOO has been
expended on this Institute.
By reference to any of the leading banks or commercial houses in Sydney, patients can convince
themselves as to the professional bona-fides of the above Medical Institute. It is scientific in every
detail. Its cost has been enormous. It is known far and wide by reason of the great cures effected by
its Specialists. Its Medical Staff comprise many of the greatest medical minds in the Commonwealth.
A patient suffering from Varicocele, Rupture, Loss of Vital Power, Weak or Shrunken Organs, General
Debility, Heart Disease, Cancer, Sciatica, Rheumatism, Insomnia, Kidney Disorder, Dropsy, or Diabetes,
Spinal Affections, Diseases of the Stomach, Nerves or Blood, are all treated by Specialists who have
studied the class of disease thoroughly. Patients may depend upon it the treatment they require is the
treatment they will receive, and will be such as no other medical Institution in Australiacan afford them.
The Specialists of this Great
Medical Institute have
practised in Australia over
a Quarter of a Century.
Free—A Book Worth £lOO,
It tells every Weak Man how to get strong. It explains the
reason for the Early Decay of Manhood’s Strength and how Perfect
Vigor is restored. It tells how we have cured thousands of weak
men in Australasia during the past five years. It is a beautifully
illustrated, 570-page book, and is full of those
Candid, Plain-Spoken Truths
which have always been the medium of communication between our
patrons and ourselves during the past twenty years. It tells about
the cause and cure of * ‘ weakness ” in men as men like to read it—plain
and honest, straight from the shoulder. There are other troubles
from which men suffer, such as Rheumatism, Lame Back, Varicocele,
Weak Kidneys, Sciatica, etc. It tells about these also and how
we cure them. To any man who suffers from an early breaking
down of the vital powers it is worth £lOO. “ CLINICAL
EXPERIENCES," 570 pages,
150 Graphic Medical Plates,
31 chapters, is the Book for Sick Men. It is commended by hundreds
of Australian newspapers. It Costs You Nothing, except the
postage fee of One Shilling in Stamps.
Subjects Treated comprise Insomnia, Epilepsy, Fevers,
Sunstroke, Burns and Scalds, Gunshot Wounds, Snakebite,
Drowning and Restoration, Bathing and Exercise, Treatment of
Invalids, Anatomy, Consumption, Rupture, Electricity and Cure
of Nerve Diseases, Diet, etc. A list of 50 valuable prescriptions
are also included, making the book especially valuable to country
residents, where medical men are few. Applicants should send in
at once for copies, as the edition of this work is fast being ordered.
a
ccs m
ICAI
i
ON
Gene
Disea
i
ECMAN&
■o Medical*
CONSUITINC
EDITION. //
Free for One Shilling
in Stamps.
Great Journals Praise this Book.
“ STAR,” Sydney : “ A book for the people.”
"EVENING NEWS,” Sydney: " A revised and enlarged edition.”
“TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL," Sydney: “The Specialist*
find it necessary to supplement new literary staffs.”
“PUNCH,” Melbourne: “Anyone interested in incurable diseases
■hould write to the Specialists.”
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie: “‘CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ contains much
valuable information written in a popular manner ”
~ ‘‘.OBSERVER,” Adelaide : “There has never been published of its
kind in Australia a more worthy addition to the literature of the colony."
_ ERCURVHobart: “Itis an elegantly-bound volume. Over
20,000 . . . copies are issued yearly.*'
“WORKER,” Brisbane: “Almost every disease which flesh is heir
to has been treated within the pages of this work.**
“NEW ZEALAND MAIL”: “ In this book the authors give
us much that is instructive from a physical health view-point.”
~ “SUNDAYTIMES,’’Perth, in “Bits about Books,”
March 29, 1903, says :“ ‘ CLINICAL EXPERIENCES’ o
General Diseases is splendidly compiled. It would be
hard to overrate its value, nor do we ever remember
to have seen a more creditable production or one that
merits a more appreciative press notice.”
“ OBSERVER,” Auckland: “A highly inter-
esting volume. It deals with nerve com-
plaints and how to cure them.”
. ‘‘l* 1 * ■*»" Kalgoorlie : “ The postal
facilities of the Institute are unique.”
“SUN,” Kalgoorlie : “Striking
cures of many so-called ‘INCUR-
ABLE’ diseases are effected daily.”
These are but a few from
hundreds of others, all of
which are voluntary re-
views of extreme
literary value and
merit.
&
V
V
&
j> * <y\ j?
*°
,v^
o°<^
When under treatment all Patients are under the special care of DR. R. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.F.P.S., E. L.M., a distinguished
Medical Expert who is registered by the Medical Boards of Australia, England and America. Ho holds Nine Diplomas and Certificates
of Qualification and Registration, which may be seen at the Consulting Rooms. His professional advices are given free to all inquirers.
IMPORTANT. —Our dispute with the Postal authorities having been amicably settled. Patients may dired
their letters to the above address without fear of delay.


“I had a very severe lung, trouble
3fiid was so weak that X could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
filler’s
'Cherry 9eeteral
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard and unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In largo and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
To soothe
the Skin ,
smarting under the heat of a
burning sun. and to remove the
effects of perspiration,
CALVERTS
Prickly=heat Soap
is specially adapted. Though indispensable
in eases of Priekly-heat (whence its name)
and other irritation of the skin, it is also
popular for general bath and toilet use, being
pure, antiseptic, and refreshing.
Sold by all local Chemists find Stores, -
in bars and tablets.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
England.
SAVE
THE CHILD!
Weakly little ones are
made strong and
bonny by SCOTT'S
EMULSION of cod
liver oil and hypo-
phosphites of lime
and soda* Fragile
ones are made robust,
ailing ones made well*
Mothers who give
Scott's give their chil-
dren health and save
themselves anxiety*
I Hill Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W., October
18, 1905. “My little daughter Mildred,
aged 16 months, had a severe attack of
bronchitis and seemed to be just wasting
away; she was so weak that she could
not take any nourishment or even turn over
in bed. However, from the first dose of
Scott's Emulsion I noticed an improvement
in her condition and now she is quite like
a different child, for sir looks and eats well
and can get. about all over the. place."
(Mrs.) A. Barden.
A good plan is to keep a bottle of Scott's
by you and give a dose at the first sign of
chill,- cold, cough, skin trouble, teel hing,
weakliness or languor. Always have
Scott's for children. Scott's is the original
and far better than any imitation can be.
Always gft' the Emul-
sion with this mark—the
Fishman—the mark of
,the "Scott” process J
It is absolutely sale, sure
in its effects, economical,
nice to take and bound
to agree,
Prove this. Write at
once for a free trial bottle
(enclosing 4d. for post-
age and mentioning this
paper). Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besr remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
Ask for Borin 1 ng ton’s
and seethatyou get it.
BRONCHFTfS.
ASTHMA.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
«*
v*
0
A«9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tsn, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers : M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwado & Co., Melbourne.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed,
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works s Birmingrham, England.
dsf
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. I hey glide
over ihe roughest
paper with the ease
I of a soft lead pencil.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.oiling Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for
assorted Sample Box.
*
BATH HEATERS
Send for Catalogue. ~»E
For use with
Gas,
Kerosene
or Wood*
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt St., SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST~., MELBOURNE.
By lioy.al- Warrant
Purveyors to
sd
His: Majesty
The, Kiwy and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening aud
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIB. AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
fs
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says:—" You can wear it
night dresses all the year round.’
SEE THE L.ABEL ON THE SELYEQGi-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Clank! Clink!
Various Bulletin contributors badly want a Song of
Australia. ‘
Oh Poet! hear the people who are calling from
the dark,
And see the sullen faces which are waiting for a
spark
To penetrate the gloomy brains of our poetic
bands t
And illuminate the ages with their songs of
Austral lands.
Out of the hovel and putrid street,
Out of foul dens of prey,
There comes the shuMe of shackled feet,
Cavernous faces, and forms in gray,
With frozen hearts and foreheads dank —
Old England’s sons come here to stay,
And sing us a song of “ Clank ! C{ank l ”
But Poet ! we have thrown aside the chains of
British crimes.
And free and eager listen to the strains of other
climes ;
And now we want to flaunt a song that we can
sing with all
Our might and main, and make our shores re-echo
with, the call.
Out of the homes of stocks and shares —..
Out of the usurer’s loins—
There comes the Jew with his gleaming snares,
Covetous hands and sweated coins,
With smirking smiles and ghoulish wink.
Old Israel has come with his golden link,
Ami his siren song of “ Clink 1 Clink ! ”
'N.S.W.
SPRING.
A Bridal Song.
She is more sparkling beautiful
' Than dawn-light seen thro’ tears
The weeping worlds of Paradise
Shed down upon the spheres.
Her eyes are bright and passionate
With love’s immortal flame—
The flowers of a wildwood tree
In petals write her name.
Her breath o’ life’s so wond’rous sweet
The bees halt, in amaze,
Their streaming honey-scented fleet
Above the meadovv ways ;
And ev’ry little singing thing
Atween the breasted hill
And God’s high-vaulted cloistering
Up-raises with a will
Pteams of laud, and cheery chaunts
Of her, who now is mines—
Queen-Angel of angelic haunts
Thro’ months of mead and wine.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
A Seychelles Moon.
The crescent moon was in when we arrived,
A silver bow hung ’mid a swarm of stars,
All settled like “ Ligurians ” yet unhived
On Night’s dark purple pallium past the bars •
Of such gay sunset glories as survived,
Aureolins, violets, lilacs, cinnabars,
And fifty other tints that.one might mention,
But faded.ere they’d claimed your fixed attention.
This Moon of ours, each night in growing splen-
dor,
We watch, we love, we worship, we regard,
As, bright, her face between the palm-shafts
slender
Glows like a silver lamp, with cross lines barred.
Where coco-plumes distinct and dark and tender
Show lozenged paries between, the light to guard,
The grand east-window of our forest-fane
With stars and planets ; clouds of every stain.
And, as she grew, our love for her grew stronger ;
We sat out late, we sang but never danced ;
We lingered on and lingered ever longer,
By all those soft and silver moonbeams tranced.
Yea! longter, longer ; longer, ever longer;
Beneath the moon-drown’d palm-trees as they
glanced
All, dripping silver on our cool pavilion,
The broad verandah and the old grey skillion.
VIC.
G.G.McC.
A Ballade of Ocean Beaches.
I weary of the sun-scorched plain,
Its yellow, sere monotony ;
I want the whisper of the rain,
I want the great blue, surging sea,
- With all its murmurous mystery ;
My weary soul, my aching brain,
That sicken of the hot, bare land,
Are hungry for the wizardry
Of crested wave and cool, wet sand.
Out here the moon may waste and wane,
She cannot work her witchery,
She needs the tossing, tumbling main
To croon to her its melody,
And then she glows, a fantasy ;
Ah, once I heard that haunting strain
By dusk-dimmed shore, by star-lit strand-;
But now I dream, and dream in vain
.Of crested wave and cool, wet sand.
Ajl day the surge’s strong refrain
Sounds in my soul incessantly,
And in the night I hear again
The wand’ring waters’ harmony,
The ocean’s siren minstrelsy.
Oh, just to wash away the stain
Of dust eternal and be fanned
By winds that sing exultaiitly
Of crested wave and cool, wet sand !
Stern Fate or Chance, whiche’er you be,
Lift for a space your iron hand,
And grant once more the joy to me
Of crested wave and cool; wet sand.
N.s.w.
WILFRID MAILUER.
“ Itari ” : Gympie (Queerisland), the very
name of which suggests gold, is now becoming
a dairying centre. The volcanic scrub lands of the
district were carefully avoided by the older
Queenslanders, but dairymen from the Big Scrub
of the Richmond River (N.S.W.'),' who had
flourished on similar country, found that they
could sell out their N.S.W. farms up to £4O per
acre, and get the Gympie country for £1 or £2,
and they commenced an exodus. The new indus-
try became infectious, and now the Queensland
Lands Department cannot get this country opened
up quickly enough to accommodate the rush of set-
tlers. So Gympie, which was sagging in the middle
byreasonof the vanishing gold returns, is beginning
to thrive on butter, with extra prospects ahead.
The Blackall ranges, in the neighborhood, are
already known for their luscious strawberries,
sold in Sydney three or four months before the
local crop arrives, and many things besides straw-
berries are expected of them. Gympie is fortu-
nate with a second string to its bow—-unlike
Charters Towers, where poppet-heads rear them-
selves up with monotonous regularity, and never
the whirr-r-r is heard of a hurrying cream-
separator, or a furious discussion seen in the local
papers about the right way to feed the cow’s baby,
or whether Sunday’s milk should be separated or
run into the creek owing to the fourth command-
ment.
The Wrights, father and son, were pot-
tering at a coal outcrop in the Gippsland hills,
pending the flotation, and they were very
desolate, particularly Wright junior, who was
only 21. They had been on the job two months
before they discovered they had a neighbor some
three miles down the other slope of the range.
Billy Wright went to look the Gables up one
Sunday afternoon. They were ’possumers on a
small scale, and cultivators on a smaller scale,
and seemed to live on two cows and a cab-
bage patch. There were four Gables, father,
son, mother and daughter, and they were
a weird family large, hairy, bony, un-
couth people. The son seemed two removes
from an idiot. The daughter, Kate, was 26, a
very tall female in very short clothes, all edges
and feet. Billy stayed for a few hours. A week
later he called again when out shooting, and three
Sundays after that he looked in during the evening.
The whole family of Gables grinned at him, and
winked and nudged, and presently old Gable got
up, and said: “ Well, I s’pose you young uns
don’t want us round. We’ll go to bed.”
“What,” said Billy, “to bed at a quarter to
eight?” “Oh, we ain’t got nothink else
t’ do, ’n’ you ’n’ Katie- .don’t want
us round, I ken see. Come along, Andy, shift
yerself.” “ But,” said the amazed visitor, “you
mustn’t go on my account. If you do I shall
leave at once.” “Gerrout!” gurgled Gable,
“ don’t I know what young lovers are. You’ll be
wantin’ Katie by yerself, 1 bet.” “But I don’t,”
cried Billy, backing towards the door. “ What! ”
cried the old man, “do I understand you’re goin’
back on my dorter?” “I never had any idea,”
protested Billy. “ I’m sure I’ve done nothing to
lead you tothink”—- — “Then you bin cornin’here,
loafin’ round my place, leadin’ my girl to believe
you was meanin’ marriage, ’n’ after all you're
goin’t’ crawl out ! ” Old Gable went for his gun,
Mrs. Gable caught up a pan, Andy made a motion
to attack, and Kate reachedfor a chunk of firewood.
The wood hit the door as Billy fled, the frying-
pan caught him in the back, and old Gable had
two shots at him before he got out of range. Billy
Wright never called on those neighbors again.


Australian Mutual Provident Society-
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HASS HffOTVTTIV TO liEINTTI On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
* , JLJ A XV/ ****** JJ City or suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
ot Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing 1 Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to-0 per cent, of the loan during - any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— Hon. A. W . Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe; Esq. ; Rolio A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.I A F F A FS S
PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' ROBERT b! CAMERON, Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE, 87
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMCPETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &e.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
yVJNCH&STZR
n
AUTOMATIC- ** ,fle
.22 CALIBER MODEL 1903
LIKE HISTORY IT REPEATS ITSELF
As a means of pleasure and sport, the Winchester Automatic
Rifle is as far ahead of any other .22 Caliber as an automobile
is ahead of the historic one-horse shay. After loading this
rifle, all that it is necessary to do to shoot it ten times is to
pull the trigger for each shot. Although automatic in action,
it is simple in construction and not apt to get out of ©rd@r.
Fcr city, country or camp it is the gun of the day.
Sold by all dealers. Manufactured by
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
df
ldeal Beverage
for weather extremes.
Cadbury’s
Absolutely Pure
An invaluable food-
drink £ old,
at all times & seasons.
The Standardof Highest Purity-7fe Lancet.
A Perfect faod"-Health
Cures While
You Sleep
ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary 1
Curative Powers over j
Whooping Cough, Croup, <
Asthma, Bronchitis, j
Influenza, i
m DISTRESSING GOUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD. f
PROTECTS your home against contagious disease.
Vapo-Cresolene complete 7-6; Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6; 4 oz., 2-3; 2 oz., 1-3.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN
In all Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
weajcjflen ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, » nd Strengthen tke Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure ohe return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CUBE PILLS. n»nf^ I L Cont^f i ? usßl S odand skin Diseas ©s.
Disorders ROXTrs fi. ®© pes ; Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course. 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women gomplamts, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing' Powders 6s
Head Office ; 047 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; IS PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE:
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
ENGLISH
MANUFACTURE.
sdf
x>
IN BLACK & IVORY HANDLES.
(EACH RAZOR IN A CASE}
dsf
wm
ds
Refuse
Imitations
See that the label on the Razor Case is exactly as above.
I Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT & Co., London, England.
mS" s
foolish "“l
All Ji
'■chet
Sold by
Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
In the Colonies.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
r"'sy/l\*o 0
S'" *
'Ba a
VV u»2 )i 4 8e 3
tsW
»75a
N»
nans
B
m
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA)
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ES
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION.
BILIOUSNESS,
0
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—S** Cap Mule marked ENO’S ’ FRUIT SALT/ Without it you have O
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pr«p*r*d only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. BUG.,
by J. o. BNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
i
i
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
They TOUGH the LIVER
Be Sure they are
There's SECURITY in
WARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dos*. 8so» Price,
Carter’s


' LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Hives immediate relief.
•linseed COMPOUND ’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy’
for Coughs and Colds, (fives immediate relief.
•LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds,
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ Of 40years’proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &o.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘ IINTJM CARTHART [CUM PILLS ’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
•LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
THE BALLET GIRL
I
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free. Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Xooelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
\ \ / /\\
Wl li
m
/K \
i
%
w
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade EEECTRIC
BEI/l'S FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BtLT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Eumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Eive., and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
3?
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cy< le bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or Clincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
,o any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
Ann Second-Hand Cycles
£UU makes ’ £1 to £2.10
good as new,
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wanted in each district. Large profits easily Trade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our special offer, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, (fee., half prices.
MEAD CYCLE CO - Dept. B3d
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
RHEUMATISM.
ft's
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1 / 1 A and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
WHY
REMAIN
DEAF?
When you can cure yourself at your own home
without any detention from your daily routine
work. No Medicines, no Electricity, but nature’s
own treatment by auial kinetics, endorsed by all
leading physicians as the only safe and positive
cure. Full particulars FREE. Call or write at once.
The “EAROSCOPE” CO.
90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.SW.
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, 4c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &e.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. ' 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE .. .. 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGIIAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 0,350
HAVERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mali, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.O.
&
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27th OCTOBER., 1006.
First Prize, value £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63.
And 107 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Oowdery, Waterloo,
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing 1 will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1900. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN Me DOUG ALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
KPigl?;
%
ftp
e
upsforektt
BASED UPONTHE WEU HNOWN”hONTSERRAT”LIME FRUIT JUICE.
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
SORE
SINGLETONS EYE O! NT M ENT
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL BYE TROUBLES.
IM ELVER RAIL-3.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book:
‘HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
•TDRINR
IS THE
Curse of the World', Ruination of Men, Star-
vation of Families, Loss of Self-respect,
Imprisonment and Death.
The unfortunate DRUNKARD has a bad look out, no matter which way he views the scene. His financial
position is as rocky as his gait, while his body is tottering on the brink of ruin along with his moral and social
reputation. Take up your morning paper, and you are nearly certain to read of a man being in prison for a
crime committed when under the influence of liquor. Drink attacks all classes, rich and poor, old and young,
men and women. It by no means follows that every Drunkard gets into prison—far sadder results often
happen—the gradual ruin of a fine business—the slow, but sure, loss of practice by the professional man
—the neglect of personal appearance—the shabbiness of the family—all point out that the terrible curse of
ALCOHOL is there, and the news spreads as though shouted from the house-top. These present times in
Australia are too hard to allow any man’s sobriety to be questioned. It may be—it is a difficult habit to break
oneself of, but Eucrasy will help you and strengthen you for the fight. Don’t neglect the matter one moment
longer, but call or write to us at once. NOTE OUR ADDRESS—
The Eucrasy Coy., 62 Hunter St., Sydney.
All correspondence is treated in strict confidence. All letters and other information, as well as all
packages, are forwarded in plain envelopes or wrappers, sealed from observation. We make no charges for
personal consultations or for books of particulars and other literature dwelling upon the subject of
ALCOHOLISM.
in
Don't
waste time,
experimenting.
Thirty Years 9
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of ihe claim of
OMridge
v £ung Tonic
to be the WOULD'B CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
ItcanbaoVainad Troia
any Chemist or .-tore,
and Saves Many
Lives.
FOR -
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
{substitutes^
THOUSANDS OF
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being
A, |D rn by Dr Langston’s Perfect
UUKtU Combined Tbeatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
VYork. Immediate Belief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent witji my Valuable 800k —
"RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY & CURE
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
51hs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address —
JA S. CRA I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address :
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
a «IORRISs
IMPERIAL
ointment
rj CUBES 1


OLDSMOBILE
Oldsmobile 7 h.p* Touring Runabout* £225,
The Oldsmobile is America’s most successful motor car.
It is so strongly and perfectly built, so durable and reliable, that it has successfully accom-
P T e „i a 0 0? endurance run in England, a 30-day continuous trial trip on the Continent,
and a 3500-mile race across the United States of America.
It is especially adapted for use in this country, because of its construction, economy of
operation, mechanical simplicity (repairs cost practically nothing: with intelligent handling),'and
its ample power. .
e dsmobile Touring' Runabout is really worth twice what it costs—and is sold at a
remarkably low price, because we know how to produce the highest automobile efficiency at a
minimum cost. s
Investigate the merits, and save money by owning an Oldsmobile.
Free Catalogue, showing an Oldsmobile line of Runabouts, Touring Cars, Delivery Cars, and
Railroad Inspection Cars. ’
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich., U.S.A.
AGENTS :
MOTOR GARAGE OF SYDNEY* Limited*
HERBERT GARRATT 'l
W. PHILLIPS
R. GAUT J
Directors.
253 Elizabeth St«, Sydney.
THE “LOUIS’ VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” W_ar.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the NEW LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk SVlsrcers throughout the Colonies.
a is a mnußEnrß..bljp-3
fUTlMnirf
E S S
m
BBaffl
HOTEL
DIETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
~v>
&
Sams
H
r-v; »-St.XJSS *,
H«|
!%>W
mzsimn
'‘•'i *•■
* lkWsS
•»«
FROM
111.5
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABIE
FROM
£11.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE |
Alcock&C° 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne. I
gSILLIAUDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
Iving of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel*
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
HARLENE
sizE4e
Ws
m
fO&
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer 8 Restorer
—————The Finest Dressing.
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 8 96, High Holborn, London, w.c.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
chief^officeYor n.s.w.— 263 Ocorg'G Street, Syclfi©y.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person agred 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call Or write for V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
WOOL
Sena Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD
tlie Leading Sydney Salesmen,
r
r RUBEROID
DAMP’COURSE
DEFIES
damp a
- • •
ft
*7»l2
To be
obtained
from all
Builders'
Iron-
mongers
and
General
Store-
keepers*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1382.
TIM ILSL>AV. AKiUST 9, 1906.
Prick Go.
ABOLITION OF THE CANTEEN.
THE GOOSE-STEP BATTALION GOING INTO EASTER ENCAMPMENT.
Draw'D > Jjo P S | AuC|
KjN V g~K


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A nstrut in for the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ." 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
ten &* n ff direct to The Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tub Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleoo, Managing Director.
11 oio to A eldress Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking sortie care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
. The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specialty
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neiospaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention . The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To .1 lllilh-iirs in. Hlach mill »*'/ rite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
loill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. B. A. Thompson <b Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., 33 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brevier and Co;
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size Gfin. x llrin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY. AUGUST 9, 1906.
SOUTH AFRICA.
Run yard Kipling has lately broken out with a
poem on politics in South Africa ; so the position
must be indeed desperate. Probably it is the
swan-song of British Jingo-Imperialism in that
continent, for—if it is possible in public affairs
to forecast the future from the present—nothing
seems more certain than that the British cause in
South Africa is doomed. The wish is not father
to this thought. The Bulletin recognises that
the hope of peace for Australia is so closely bound
up with the stability of the British Empire that
any such great change as the loss of South Africa
would bring grave anxiety, and possibly grave
danger, to the Commonwealth. So —in spite of
all disagreement with that unjust and wicked
war which was waged to establish British rule
and German-cwm- Jewish dominion over the
African continent south of the Zambesi —this
paper would wish, for the sake of peace in Aus-
tralia, to see peace established in the Afrikander
community. But no wish can alter facts, or the
logical conclusion from facts ; and it is difficult to
avoid the conclusion that South Africa is lost to
the British flag. Perhaps, by a strange irony of
fate, events will ripen quickly, and the present
British Liberal Government, which, as an
Opposition, did all it could to avert the
cruelty of the war and the calamity of the
subsequent Chinese-labor decision, will have to
shoulder the ignominy of the loss. Perhaps
Fate will be more just, and the party of Jingoism
and Chinese Labor will have to face the storm
which it brewed. Perhaps even a miracle may
happen and by some marvellous development of
wise statesmanship the British position yet be
saved. But it will need a miracle.
* * * *
When the war to subdue the Boer Republics—
nominally in the interests of an all-British South
Africa, really as a move in the game of inter-
national finance—was first entered upon by the
organisation of the Cecil Rhodes - J ameson
Raid, there were many reasons given in
its apology. The Boers were tyrannous ; they
did not wash; Kruger had a prejudice against
Englishmen ; he had no idea of the use of a spit-
toon ; and so on. The ultimate limit of cant
and blasphemy among the apologists was reached
by that Bishop of the Church of England who
preached a sort of holy war, arguing that the
Boers represented Old Testament ideas, while the
Cohens, who ran the issue on the British side,
represented the new revelation of Christ ! It
was this disgusting and ribald cant which
organised in British communities, among decent
people of British blood, the main oppo-
sition to the war. If it had been carried
on throughout with the frank brutality and
illegality of the Raid—if Britain had said
flatly that it was out to steal territory, as Russia,
Austria, and Prussia stole Poland or as Prussia
stole from Denmark, and as almost every nation
is willing to steal when it is able—a good deal of
pro-Boer argument would have been, smothered.
The issue would then have been narrowed down
to that of advisability, whether the loot was wortli
the burglary, whether it was wise to set the bad
example of wiping out two inoffensive white
democracies. But inveterate habit made Britain
cant from first to last (at least, not Britain, for
the soul of Britain was not with the war, and every
great living Briton at the time protested against
it, buttheinob, rich and poor, which ruled Britain);
and in the process of this canting there were
given many assurances which now constitute some
of the chief reasons why the British position in
South Africa is untenable. The war was to estab-
lish a pure democracy in South Africa ; that assur-
ance stands in the way of holding the conquered
territory as a province under martial law, which
now is the only sure way of holding it. The war
was to relieve the blacks from Boer tyranny ; the
blacks heard this, and have been expecting some-
thing in the way of benefits ever since, and show
their disappointment by a very expensive revolt,
and by a clear intention to side with any
enemy against Britain in the future. This
war was to free South Africa of Boer
mismanagement, and usher in an era of
wonderful prosperity ; it has made South Africa
practically bankrupt, and the discontented whites
holding dishonored British promissory notes for
prosperity and clamoring for some change—
any change—are not the least formidable of the
difficulties which bristle around the British ad-
ministration.
* # * w
But the difficulties which were sown during the
waging of the war, and which have come up to
such a prolific crop of trouble since, are, after all,
insignificant beside the disastrous blunder which
followed. Britain having, by a slow process of
attrition and “ concentration,” partially conquered
the Boers in the field, and having finished the
process by bribing the unconquerable remnant of
the farmers to lay down their arms, could have
ignored all the cant that had been indulged
in, and could have safely swept aside all the
promises to natives, Jews, whites, if it had garri-
soned the territory won. If 50,000 British citizens
had been poured into the Transvaal to work the
mines, South Africa would have been won for
good, to develop ultimately on the lines of Canada
or Australia. The new colonists would have been,
owing to the. special circumstances of their migra-
tion, stubborn in British, as opposed to Boer, senti-
ment. With them to rely upon, a fully democratic
Constitution might at once have been granted to
the conquered territory ; and if Boer or native ob-
jected, the immigrants could shoulder a rifte as well
as cast a vote for the British cause. But this most
obvious decision of statecraft was flouted. The
Balfour-Chamberlain Government, at them ging
of Cohen, decided on Chinese labor for the mines,
and thus passed sentence of expulsion on the
white miner, who will not, in any part of the
world, work side by side with the Chinaman.
True, it was Cohen’s war, not Britain’s. It was
the international financiers, not the British
people, who organised the Jameson raid (wherein
the British flag skulked behind a buccaneer stan-
dard) and the later Chamberlain raid, which
flaunted the Union Jack openly. But the
war, though Cohen’s, was fought with British
blood and British gold, and at such a cost
of both as none dreamed at the outset
would be necessary. Having carried through the
bitter campaign, Britain might, without unfair-
ness, have turned aside from Cohen —who had
instigated the war as a “ picnic,” requiring 20,000
men and £5,000,000 of money—and have arranged
the post-bellum conditions in the interests of the
Empire rather than of foreign finance. But Bal-
four and Chamberlain were bound to Cohen,
and, to that bond traitorously true, they sanc-
tioned the employment of Chinese slave labor for
the Rand mines. In doing that they not only
lost the British garrison, the industrial army
of occupation, but they deeply disappointed
all South African whites whom they did
not actually antagonise and embitter, and
armed the natives with a new grievance against
the white man. Now the British cause is with-
out a real friend in South Africa. The idealists
who, saw in the continuance of British rule the
best hope of a great Afrikander nation, are of the
mood White Australians would be in if Britain
decreed that Asiatics must be admitted to their
Commonwealth ; the Boers are more deeply con-
vinced than ever that British aims are sordid,
base and anti-national; the natives, who were
probably as well treated under the Kruger regime
as it was wise to treat them, are disappointed at
finding no betterment in their condition, and
seethe with discontent; that part of the white
population which, without having any very fixed
ideas on the patriotic issues involved, looked
to the war to cause a S’African “ boom ” and
find that it has brought the country to deep de-
pression, are sore and resentful. Even Cohen
growls— Cohen for whom the war was waged and
for whom Chinese labor was secured— Cohen
growls because still his millions do not increase
quickly enough. Britain is left thus with the
faithful aid only of the “Johnny” officials who
have been imported to run the civil service ; and
their aid is of little value at anything more serious
than a ping-pong tournament.
* * * ■*
What the ultimate fate of South Africa is to be
there is no possibility of judging, except that it
will almost certainly not be a part of the British
Empire. The white population may possibly be
organised into an Afrikander Federation—a power
strong enough to keep the natives in check and to
make impossible an invasion bv a European
Power. The overwhelming mass of the blacks
may win the territory back for Ethiopia and pro-
nounce the doom of Dutch and British alike.
Whatever comes the issue will profoundly affect
Australia. When Britain decided to exterminate
the Boer Republics it was of serious prejudice to
this Commonwealth, which is interested in main-
taining the theory of the inviolability of white
communities, however small. When the decision
was come to and. the war waged and won, Aus-
tralian interest lay in an effective British occupa-
tion of the conquered territory, since grave trouble
to Great Britain would possibly involve the dis-
memberment of the Empire. An effective British
occupation was sacrificed for a scandalous Chinese
occupation, and a position created which must,
unless a miracle intervenes, cause a disaster
shortly. That position provides another pressing
reason why Australia should organise its defences.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Astounding Lies of Anti-Sosh.
The Bulletin has received from Brisbane two
remarkable documents issued in the interests of
the Anti-Sosh party, of which George Held is
the head and front, the eye-glass, the stomach,
the bulging waistcoat, and the chief ornament.
They are remarkable for a breadth and depth and
richness of mendacity which are almost beyond
the resources of the "English language —and yet
the latest dictionaries show that there are a quar-
ter of a million words in that language, and it is
still growing. The less conspicuous publication
of the two is issued from the Courier Buildings,
and purports to be signed by one John Cameron
—at least the signature looks like that. John
Cameron —if it is he—concludes with an earnest
cadge for funds wherewith to fight the scheme
for supplying the farmers with land, and gives
some of the reasons why he should be trusted
with the money, in these words : —
Federal Land-Tax. —I need hardly point out the
necessity there is for action to be taken in this matter.
Already the Federal Premier, Mr. Deakin (urged thereto
by the leader of the Labor party in the Federal Legisla-
ture), has expressed his approval to the introduction of a
Federal Land-Tax. It is suggested that the amount of
this tax should be Is. in the £1.
So far, the amount proposed by the Parliamentary
advocates of the Federal land-tax has been from
Jd. up to 4d. in the £ on estates worth over
£5000—not Is. in the £ all round. So the lie that
issues from the Courier Buildings consists in sup-
pressing all mention of the £5000 exemption ; and
all mention of the fact that an estate worth
£00,000 would only pay 4d. in the £ on the last
£10,000 or so, and that the average on the whole
estate would be about 2d. in the £ ; also in multi-
plying the tax by 24 and the 4d. tax by
three. And these are not very remarkable lies
and suppressions for the anti-Sosh party. They
don’t represent its best efforts, so to speak, and
are only in the way of a preliminary canter. But
it rises to the occasion in a flaring black-and-red
handbill, wherein the case for the anti-Sosh
party—that crowd of blasphemous liars which
takes the name of religion in vain as part of its
argument, a,nd claims Gon and the Church as
supports of its propaganda—is set out afresh, not
by mere suppression, but by direct Ananias and
Sapphira
FEDERAL LAND TAX.
How it Will Affect tiie Queensland Farmer.
Say you have a farm of.. 80 acre > 200 acres 640 acres
at £5 at £2 10s. at £1
= £400. =£500. =£640.
Your Municipal and Shire
rates, at 2d. in the £
will be £3 6 8 £4 3 4 £5 6 8
The FEDERAL LAND
TAX at Is. in the £
will be 20 0 0 25 0 0 32 0 0
Add to which the State
Treasurer’s Tax of, say,
6d. in the £ .. .. 10 0 0 12 10 0 16 0 0
This would mean a total
for the Three Taxes of £33 6 8 £41 13 4 £53 6 8
Which you will have to pay EVERY year.
Note.— The above Taxes will be in addition to the
Income Tax.
This may be classed as rather a special effort. In
ali statements of the Labor party’s scheme of a
Federal graduated land-tax the thing that has
been made most clear is that the estate which is
worth less than £5000 is to pay nothing. The
wail about the farmer with £400 worth of land
who will pay £20 a year is a lie direct—the tax is
a lie, the Is. in the £ is a lie, and the £20 is a lie.
Even if that oppressed imaginary farmer owned
£5400 worth of land instead of £400 worth, the
Labor party only proposes to make him pay
16s. 8d.—which is a vast deal too little. Similarly
the jeremiad about the farmer with £500 worth of
land who is to pay £25 is a lie ; that farmer will
also pay nothing. And the broken-hearted
lamentation about the bucolic person with £640
worth of land who will pay £32 is a lie; he will
likewise pay nothing. The whole plan and in-
tention of the proposed Federal graduated land-
tax is to break up the great estates so as to supply
bucolic persons of this class with untaxed land, and
to so multiply their class that if they have ever to
go to the polls to vote against a scheme for the im-
position of the imaginary taxes mentioned in the
red and black document quoted above, they will
be able to muster 100 votes where t’ ey now count
one, and will be able to resist the alleged enemy
where now they are helpless. The attempt to
beguile the small farmer into voting against the
measure which is intended exclusively for his
benefit is worthy of the Anti-Sosh crowd—a
gathering which about holds the world’s record
for impudence and unreliability.
-o
Patent Poison and Swindle.
Last week the House of Reps, debated a motion
by J osiah Thomas, affirming that all patent
medicines imported into the Commonwealth
should be made to declare upon their labels their
exact pharmaceutical composition. In the course
of the discussion it listened to some weird truths,
related by Oarty Salmon (a medical practitioner),
regarding the composition of some of the alleged
“cures” and medicines that are brought into
Australia by the hundred thousand bottles or
packages. One infants’ remedy—to be given to
baliies at the rate of three tea-spoonfuls a day
—contains 42 per cent, of proof spirit. An alleged
fruit syrup contains no fruit, but is composed
of ginger, senna, and podophyllin—podophyllin
being an active poison. Salmon, in fact, was
able to say that, within the week, a man
had died from an overdose of it. Probably all
over Australia fond mothers have been cheerfully
pouring podophyllin into the baby every time it
cried. “ The effect of these foods and medicines
on infants,” says Salmon, “is worse than starva-
tion. The attempt of their stomachs and intes-
tines at assimilation causes a wasting more rapid
than even starvation will accomplish.” Un-
doubtedly the proprietors of such medicines must
be aware of their contents, and of their deleterious
nature ; yet they go on spiling them, and in most
instances raise a grieved howl against any pro-
posal to make them divulge their composition.
Salmon had more instances. A well-ad vertised con-
sumption cure contains no medicinal substance but
opium—the effect of which is not to cure, but to
deaden the pain, and at the same time to plant
in the unhappy patient the seeds of a craving
which make him an opium fiend as well as a lung-
less shadow. A “strength-restorer” and “blood-
builder ” (nearly all the patent medicines are that)
is made of juniper and a preparation of broom —
in fact, gin and bitters. There is an “electric”
cure for deafness, and its principle is the insertion
in the ear of a solution of red pepper. The
pleasing warmth of the pepper is supposed by the
deluded patient to be due to electric action.
“This apparatus,” Salmon said, “costs 30s.;
commercially it is worth 3d. ; remedially it is
valueless.” The House agreed to Thomas’s
resolution, Minister Lyne declaring that under
his Commerce Act or Customs Act he had
power to enforce all that Thomas asked
for. If that be so, there should be no
delay in exposing the contents of the imported
nostrum to the cold breeze of publicity. The
Commonwealth, however, has, unfortunately, no
power to overhaul drugs and medicines manufac-
tured within its boundaries, that being still a
matter for State control, and it can only be hoped,
in a hopeless sort of way, that if the Common-
wealth does its duty the States will follow suit.
Everywhere in the world chemical analysis tell 3
the same story about patent medicines—that
babies are killed, women debauched, and sick
men made worse by swallowing these two-
penn’orths of nefarious drugs which are sold at
2s. 9d. or 3s. 6d., with a reduction if you take a
quantity and die sooner.
«
The Difficulties of the Australian
Manufacturer.
Ip Australian manufactures are to be properly
pushed ’ by legislative action (strong protective
Tariff, an Anti-Trust Bill, occasional Government
bonuses, &c.), how comes it that the professing
patriots, who rail so loudly about the prejudices
of the purchasing public, and bewail the difficulty
in getting Australian goods judged on their solid
merits .how comes it that these wordy exponents
of practical legislation have neglected to protect
the local manufacturer against antagonistic re-
tailers? Clearly enough the growth of Aus-
tralian manufactures all these years has been
stunted by the suppressive tactics of shop-
keepers, notably the big shopkeepers who are
also importers on their own account. Local
products have been belittled by the people to
whom the gullible purchasing public looks for
advice and guidance as to the quality of the goods
they require. It is true that public opinion has
lately withdrawn the shopkeeper’s ancient license
to persistently slander Australian goods merely
because they are not imported. Public opinion
is at last educated up to a certain point of
sympathy with the local manufacturer, and
reasonable faith in his capacity for under-
standing his business. So the shopman needs to
be diplomatic in his indirect disparagement of
Australian workmanship. But the old trouble
goes on nevertheless. Where the retailer is
actually retailing locally-made goods in competi-
tion with the imported he usually endeavors to
suppress the manufacturer’s name. The foreign
manufacturer gets the advertisement of his brand,
whereas the local maker is, in the majority of
cases, prevented from announcing himself to the
public. The Victorian hat trade affords striking
illustration of the retailers’ unpatriotic policy.
The Denton Hat Mills turns out tens of
thousands of felt hats per annum, which bear any
brand except the name of the manufacturer.
Various fancy titles are stamped upon the lining,
and when the order, given through a wholesale
house, is of sufficient importance the hats are said
to be “specially made for So-and-8o,” the retail-
ers. But they give no advertisement to local
manufacture. Their origin is kept dark by the
shopkeeper in order that they may pass for
imported with any customers who love foreign
goods for their foreignness. The Austral Hat
Mills (Melbourne) are making a plucky attempt
to fight single-handed the battle of all the local
mills, but the manager reports great difficulty
in making headway against the obstructive
demands of many retailers. At the beginning
of this year the Austral Mdls inaugurated
the system of branding hats with the maker’s
name, leaving no room for doubt as to where they
came from. In short, the local hat manufacturer
claimed the right to advertise himself on his
goods as freely as, say, a foreign lamp manufac-
turer advertises himself. To this new Australian
departure the large retailers are bitterly opposed,
in many cases. They will place orders for the
“Austral” hats provided that the “Austral”
brand be omitted. The goods must appear as
being “made specially for So-and-So,” but
they mustn’t take credit for their Australian
nationality. All these retail markets are
closed to the manufacturer who is striving
to popularise his local products under their
true designation.. The employment of local labor
in hat-making is checked by the autocratic re-
tailer. He refuses to further the advertising of
a local brand, although he makes a business
feature of the brand of certain imported hats
which he could not buy without the brand, even
if he wanted to. A simple cure for this trading
evil suggests itself immediately to every thinking
citizen, except the few who sit in Parliament and
are paid to think about such matters. An im-
proved tariff will, in due course, protect the
Australian market from foreign, fever-den, felt
hats, but meanwhile it is the duty of every State
Government to ordain that all Australian goods,
which are commonly marked with any name, shall
bear the brand of the manufacturer, frankly and
openly set forth.
4.
The N.S.W. Gambling Bill.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade’s Bill for the
“ regulation and suppression ” of gambling seems
to involve a contradiction in its title, but —passing
the apparent grammatical absurdity—that repre-
sents the object of the measure. Gambling is to
be regulated on racecourses and sports grounds,
and suppressed everywhere else, even in sport-
ing clubs such as Tattersall’s. The regula-
tion goes this far: that on sports grounds,
if the promoters wish, betting may be abso-
lutely prohibited, and persons attempting to
bet may be removed, and, in the event of contu-
macy, arrested ; and the number of race meetings
(where betting would certainly be encouraged by
the promoters) is limited. There can be no addi-
tion to the present number of race-courses. Any
race-course where the running track has a less cir-
cumference than six furlongs must be shut up.
No race-course shall be used for race-meetings on
more than 24 days in any one year; and no
club, association, or person may hold more
than 16 days’ racing in any one year. There
is not much doubt that these provisions could
be effectively administered. The evil of betting
at sports gatherings which the promoters wish to
keep free of the bookmaker, and the hypocrisy of
the sports committee which professes to forbid
betting, but really encourages it, will be alike
ended. The limitation of the number of race
meetings is another easily effected and most
desirable reform. At present there is hoyse-
racing of a sort in and around Sydney nearly 300
days of the year. It may be all for the “ improve-
ment of the breed of horses,” but a good deal of
this attention to the parentage of the noble
animal can be spared for the sake of devoting
a little more time to the improvement of
the breed of man (who is also a noble animal).
It is in regard to the suppression of street, house
and club betting that the Gambling Bill meets
with its most serious difficulty; and Mr. Wade
has had no hesitation in dealing drastically with
“the liberty of the subject” to attain his objects.
On the appearance of things, the Bill —allowing
that it goes through without serious amendment —
will attain those objects, but it will still have to
face the ordeal of law-court tests raising such
questions as “Wheyi is a place not a place?”


The Gambling Bill starts oil with a series
of sweeping definitions the most important of
which is that “street” includes any highway,
thoroughfare or passage on any public or private
land. All New South Wales is divided into three
sections—(l) streets (as defined above), on which
betting is absolutely prohibited; (2) sports
grounds or racecourses, on which betting is
allowed ; (3) houses or lands in, or on, which
betting is absolutely prohibited. And, seemingly,
what isn’t a house (vvliich includes grounds at-
tached thereto), or a piece of land, is a “grounds”
or a “street,” and there is no area which isn’t a
“place” within the meaning of the Act. But
this point is not made as plain as it might have
been (by following, for instance, a recent Bulle-
tin suggestion). To use a house in contravention
of the Act means heavy penalties to occupier or
owner. Any house reasonably suspected of being
a gaming-house, or any house or land reasonably
suspected of being used as a means of entrance to
or exit from a gaming-house, may be “proclaimed,”
and, in that event, not only owner and occupier,
but any visitor to the premises, is liable to punish-
ment. In effect, suspected gaming-houses may
be declared under quarantine, and visiting them
may be made an offence. A house unjustly sus-
pected and “ proclaimed may go to the
Supreme Court and clear its character. But the
onus of proof is on the suspected house. The
gaming-house which makes elaborate precautions
with locks, bars, etc., to keep out the police,
thereby sows the seed for a fresh crop of penalties.
There isn’t any clause by which an institution
such as Tattersall’s Club can continue to “call the
card ” in peace. Apparently, to “ call the card ”
under this Bill would be to court bankruptcy and
gaol. “ The interference with liberty ” and the
“ violation of the principle that innocence is to be
presumed until guilt is proved, or easily prove-
able,” will doubtless be urged in objection to
Wade’s drastic proposals. But, if they represent
the minimum price the community has to pay
for the suppression of the betting-shop and
street bookmaker, the price will, no doubt, be
cheerfully paid. For the betting evil is monstrous.
It not only attacks the purses of mental weak-
lings, but saps their enterprise and industry. The
man who hopes to make a “ rise ” in the world by
gambling, never puts his shoulder to the task of
making a “rise” by hard work and intelligent
enterprise ; his hustle is numbed by the gambling
drug. And Australia—which offers, on the whole,
greater facilities than almost any other country
in the world for a man to “rise,” and which,
with proper national legislation, will offer him
ideal facilities —has less excuse for the gambler,
and more incentive to the hustler, than most
lands. Also, it has great need of the hustler.
Patriotic citizens will welcome, therefore, the
principle of a Bill designed to prevent, as far as
possible, the flaunting of baits to the foolish to
draw them into the vortex of gambling. That
some sort of gambling will always exist must be
admitted. What the law should aim at is the
suppression of agencies which seek to enlist from
among the improvident new victims for the evil.
♦
Population—How to Lose it and How to
Get it.
An essay by “ G.H.” :
Population is pedestrian cash. The country whose
population steadily increases, and whose standards of
living and education continue on the up-grade has little
to worry about. It is the other kind of country that
requires to tie an ice-factory around its head, and think
numerously. When it finds'that its population is rushing
down a wholesale precipice, and that the standard of
living amongst the people who have not yet rushed is
pretty nearly the same as it was fifty years ago, it needs
to find out things. First, why its population is depart-
ing ; second, where it is going to. In the institutions,
laws, and general customs of that Where, it will most
likely find a highly effective antidote for its own distress-
ing Why. And just here seems to be a good place to px
pound Ireland’s sample Why. The population of Ireland
has been steadily evaporating, mostly to the Protectionist
United States, for the last 65 years. The following table
shows how incessant that evaporation has been
Population Loss in
of Ireland. 10 Years.
1841 .. 8,175,124
1851 .. 6,552,385 1,622,739
1861 .. 5,798,967 753,418
1871 .. 5,412,377 386,590
1881 .. 5,174,836 237,541
1891 .. 4,704,750 470,086
1901 .. 4,458,775 245,975
Total loss, 1841-01 3,716,349
And, according to authoritative figures recently pub-
lished in the Cold Country, Ireland’s population has
further declined since 1901 to 4,390,208.
The wholesale evaporation of humanity began in the
identical decade in which Cobden’s Freetrade joss
arrived. Ireland entered the nineteenth century with
a population of 5,000,000 men. In the 41 years sub-
sequent to 1800, over 3,000,000 were added. And
this addition was effected in the face of the most
iniquitous system of absentee landlordism on earth. In
the middle forties, however, Ireland ran up against a bad
famine. With only a fraction of the land under cultiva-
tion, Ireland had thusfar been barely able to feed its
expanding population. But the famine of the forties
brought Ireland to a dead stop, and at the same time
provided the Manchester Calico Jimmies with the lever
which finally upset the Corn Laws. The Manchester
manufacturers, hungry for foreign markets, had been
crying out for Freetrade in corn since 1838. If Eng-
land would subsist on foreign food, they argued, foreign
countries would accept English cotton goods in exchange.
Thanks to heavy Protection, the cotton towns of Lanca-
shire had sprung up practically in a day. The industry
upon which they flourished, according to Australian
Freetrade theories, was a purely artificial one ; for Eng-
land did not, and could not, grow an ounce of cotton.
Nevertheless Protection had created the cotton industry,
and had made it financially powerful. Previous to the out-
break of the famine in Ireland, these manufacturers had
despaired of opening the English market for foreign corn.
When the agony arrived across the Irish Channel, they saw
their opportunity. “ If distress should continue to favor
us," Cobden gleefully wrote, “ we shall get something sub-
stantial in another twelve months." Distress did con-
tinue to favor the Calico Jimmies. The “ favor ” was of
such a wholesale nature that half a million Irish peasants
died within 18 months. The Manchester men danced
around their graves in anticipatory triumph. In Ireland’s
misfortune they saw no object-lesson in land monopoly.
The Potato Panic impressed them as an excellent expe-
dient whereby they might destroy the agricultural inde-
pendence of the United Kingdom. How they succeeded
is a matter of history. Freetrade was established in
England and Ireland by a method unparalleled in the
records of modern nations. The people gave no direct
electoral mandate for Freetrade. As a matter of
fact, out of a total population of 27,000,000, only about
three-quarters of a million had votes. But the fight for
Freetrade was not won on the hustings. The Parlia-
ment that repealed the Corn Laws was hostile to Cobden’s
propositions ; and the Prime Minister, who brought in
the Bill, had affirmed the principle that the nation’s
existence was embodied in the independence of its food-
supply. Yet, thanks to the condition of Ireland, the
Repeal was effected.
Freetrade, according to the vociferous Cobden, was to
make Ireland a land flowing with wakes and whisky and
other emblems of joy. Ireland was to grow fat upon im-
ported food, and was to pay for it with coin which was to
come from some unspecified source. Ireland refused to
get fat, however, in spite of the abolition of the corn
duties. It was base ingratitude on the part of Ireland.
It knew instinctively that the idol had clay hoofs, and
that its smile was a clock-work affair. The middle of last
century marked a great and melancholy turning-point in
Irish history. The Distressful Country appeared to
pass a silent resolution to the effect that Ire-
land under English rule and English Freetrade was
synonymous with Hell, and that the best thing was to
seek a home elsewhere. Not often have nations taken
such a step. To remove a nation—or the able-bodied
portion of it—from the soil to which it has emng for cen-
turies, is no small thing. It is tragedy great. “'''ter,
and all-significant. But the Irish exodus began. It has
gone on. It has never ceased. It seems that it will
never cease—until Ireland gets a Protective tariff and a
really national land-system. -. , , ,
The industrial difference between Ireland and hnglana
in Cobden’s day was simply this. England began its
Freetrade career as the greatest manufacturing State on
earth—the State that had almost a monopoly of the
world’s manufactures. It had reached that condition
through centuries of Protection, and though under rree-
trade it has dropped back to second or third place, it
wiii take a great deal of Freetrade to destroy these
gigantic industries —the purely artificial cotton in-
dustry included. But Ireland, its manufactures carefully
destroyed by English legislation, began its Freetrade
career as a country which had to build its industries
afresh, and it met the usual fate. No country ever built
up great manufactures under Freetrade, and there is no
reason to believe that any one ever will.
It is pitiful to think of Ireland’s vanished manufactures.
Take its woollen industry as an example. In 1641 265
years a^o —it employed 30,000 persons. And how many
in 1881 ? Only a sorrowful 7000. And, in the same year,
John Bright asked, in the House of Commons, “ Why is
it that during the last hundred years there has not been
a single manufactory of any importance established and
sustained in Ireland?” Coming from Cobden s chief
assistant fetish-monger, that question suggested Cain
asking Abel how he came to be dead.
The Sacred Victorian Cow.
Somebody wrote to Harrison Ord, the chiet
inspector of Victorian factories, the other day,
asking him to have a look at some of the butter-
factories, and particularly at their machinery.
Ord’s reply was that the Factories Act ex-
pressly exempted butter-factories from inspection,
and that no supervision could be exercised over
them. Yet in these factories there are steam
boilers, of all ages and sizes, and in all states of
disrepair ; and they are largely in the care of men
who are uncertificated. All othifer engine-drivers
must have certificates. The Victorian law won’t
allow a man without a certificate to take his
engine into one of Tait’s roadside railway stations
for loading. But in a building filled with expen-
sive machinery, and which has often a lot of men
in it as well, the big steam boiler may be, and
often is, in charge of a man who doesn’t know
steam from electricity. Some day there will be
the father of an explosion, and if it happens when
there is a directors’ meeting at the factory,
and pieces of director go ‘flying through
a couple of shires, there is a possibility
that something will be done in the matter.
The same stupid principle applies to the
wages of the factory employees. In all other
factories the wages ai’e, or may be, regulated by a
Board ; but the Factories Act expressly excludes
butter-factory employees, and farm hands gener-
ally, from the purview of the statute. Allof this
is done owing to the quaint notion, which the
farmer carefully fosters, that dairying and farming
would go to rack and ruin if fair wages had to be
paid and decent regulations conformed to. No
one ever brought forward any proof of this weird
allegation; the “farmers’representatives” in the
House just scrambled to their feet and made the
statement in that bluff, satisfied way that is
characteristic of them, and the House was so im-
pressed that it accepted the lie without even
casually inspecting it. Yet to say that the butter-
factory cannot afford to employ a certificated
engine-driver is a libel in the 10th degree on a
flourishing industry. And there is even less
excuse for the villainously low wages >which
the great bulk of the factories pay their em-
ployees. The dairy farmers, and the landowners
who rent them the land, are simply coining
money, and their objection to decent wages for
the men who do most of the hard work—and who
work seven days a week—is a shameful scandal.
The industry can well afford good wages, and it
wouldn’t even be necessary to reduce rents to pay
them. But so sacred is the Cow that most legisla-
tors grow weak in the legs and begin to perspire
as soon as it is mentioned.
A Straight Line.
A railway journey from Junee to Hay (N.S.W.)
is an object lesson. This line is 168 miles long,
and the annual loss is about £50,000. It doesn’t
really pay for axle-grease, through lack of popu-
lation to use it. After the train has passed the
outskirts of Narandera it enters on a vast sheep-
walk. Narandera is in the county of Cooper, a
large county of 2752 square miles, and traversed
by two expensive railway lines—the other
one doesn’t pay for axle-grease either. The
population of the county—outside the town ot
Narandera, which lives on being a railway June-
tion—is about 1000, and is either stationary or
diminishing. As the train hustles gradually
along you enter the great sheepwalk county of
Sturt. It has 738 people on 1512 square miles—
four people to ten square miles. The last census
showed that the population is diminishing, lothe
south is the sheepwalk county of Boyd; the last cen-
sus showed that its population is diminishing also.
Ahead is the great sheepwalk county of VVarad-
gery ; the last census showed that its population
is diminishing too. As the train plods along, the
distant river timber can be seen slowly receding
from view, and the intervening space, containing
some of the finest land in N.S.W., is utter chaos
-—Save for a sheep or a crow. You seldom see a
cow. They don’t take to cow on these big sheep
stations. Both sides of the line, as far as
you can see, .are freehold “ station property.
Ten or fifteen miles out to the north is a
little nest of farmers, isolated as it were. You
wonder why it is they did not settle down closer
to the line, where the land is better. But it would
never do to have farmers so adjacent to the rail-
way; They would disturb the sheep. It would
never do to have them near the river either—they
might fall in and get drowned. Doubtless it was
to avoid all such trouble that the river and the
railway line, and their immediate surroundings,
were sold to the squatter (if the line wasn’t sold
to him it should have been given to him), bo
you stand a bigger chance of getting into
Sheol than getting a field of river frontage for
agricultural or any other pursuit—anywhere along
the ’Bidgee. Whitton is a tired-looking little
township, cursed with too much sheepwalk, by
which it is surrounded. It would never do to
have the “ backbone of the country” rooting up the
land within a mile or two of the township and
the railway that doesn’t pay. The big land-
holders between Narandera and Hay saw to that
years ago. Probably they thought that the advent
of small landholders within such easy distance of
the line, and on the very best of the land too, would
lead to Socialism, or something. The fact that
this line runs through the very best soil in
Riverina cannot be disputed, but the land is kept
for a sheep-walk. Three acres of this land ought
to almost keep a human being, but through the
bad management of the big squatter they just
about keep a jumbuck. Wanted, the Federal
graduated land-tax.
«.
What is an Australian?
Louis Esson spreads himself on the subject men-
tioned above: —
Is the Australian—the ethnological specimen (white)
born or branded in this country—a fellow Irishman, a
brither Scot, an Oxford Englishman, a fat German, a
frivolous Frenchman, a spaghetti chewer, a Finn, or
what ? Is the Australian a secessionist, a Socialist, a gum-
sucker, a leaner, a man on the land, a tote twirler, an
importer, or an auctioneer ? Is he a Ohow ? Is he a fellow
Hindu, or Jap, or Javanese, or brother Assyrian ? Is he
anything in particular, a cosmopolitan, or a man who has
just shifted his native land with him?
It seems easy. I include anybody as Australian who
has faith in Australia; desires to live violently and en-
thusiastically in it (if possible) ; has solid Australian sen-
timent ; is interested in things Australian—history, ex-
ploration, cities, the bush, politics, arts, personalities,
public debt —everything ; who buys local goods (when
they’re there); who doesn’t think gum trees “ hideous”
and our landscape “all the same”; who believes the
people here can run their country better than outsiders
can tell them ; who lives, works, thinks and dreams Aus-
tralian, and is quite cheerful about it.
Examples: Marie Narellf., native born, is labelled
“ Queeu of Irish Song.” I pass. How can an Australian
be “ queen of Irish Song ” ? Irish song is fine in its way.
So is nearly every country’s national song ; so might
Australian national song be, if we had any. But Irish
song is not our goods. I wouldn’t claim Marie Narelle
as an Australian artist any morfe than I would Melba,
who is “ queen of Italian opera,” or Haddon Chambers,
who is a London playmonger, or Mackennal, who sculps
alien subjects, or H. B. Marriott-Watson, who writes for
the Daily M ail.
The Australian comes from cosmopolitan stock. He
may be Scotch, Russian. Swedish, Danish, anything;
he had to come from somewhere. Yet he’s Australian
when he grafts in and for this country. Usually he’s
only partially Australian. When he joins a Caledonian
or Hibernian Society, a Swedish Club, a Deutsche Turn-
Verein or Brixton Empire League he’s no longer Aus-
tralian—that section of him, anyhow. When Pat or
Mike waves his shillalah and calls for Home Rule for
Oireland (and tosses thrums and sentiment in the Irish
envoys’ hats), I wouldn’t have him on my mind as an
Australian. He ought to walk about. He’s Irish, or
pretends to be. He’s moved deeper by something in the
Old Land that he deserted (not willing to make material
sacrifices for his patriotism) than by anything in the
New Land that accepted him. Australia doesn’t move
him yet. It takes an earthquake to move some people.
And it’s the same all round. You can’t, or shouldn’t,
class people as Australians who write furrin books, paint
furrin pictures, warble furrin songs—whether emigrated
to furrin parts or lingering wearily on in this “ blasted
hole.” They’re half-and-halfers at best or worse.
If a man iiving here isn’t moved more by things hap-
pening here than by those in other lands (including the
dim, legend-haunted place his parents may have come
from) he’s no use to me. He usually wrecks his children.
Have conducted some experiments on small boys. When
asked what they are, “ English,” say some, “Scotch,”
“ Irish,” “German,” others; rarely “Victorians,” still more
rarely‘’Australian.” One replied “English.” lobjected.
So did his dad. “ Noo, what are ye, Jock? ” “ Scawtch,”
cried Jock at the second go. “It’s the fault o’ the
schules,” commented the now’ proud parent. One boy
said “Geelong.” Federation sinks slowly into the hearts
of the people.
If a man or woman doesn’t find this country the most
interesting on the map (that is, for him or her) and doesn’t
rejoice and revel in being here, he or she had better
depart for London or Japan or Spain (so romantic ; they
play guitars there !) They’re no good here. They’re big
blots—public nuisances.
Australia doesn’t need to grasp at half-distinguished
personalities—actors, poets, singers, painters. They’ll
want us some day more than we want them. We’ll come
at the finish. What Turgenieff said about Russia applies
pat to Australia. “ Russia can do without everyone of
us, but woe to him if he forgets Russia.” Queens of Irish
song and Italian opera, Teutonic bassoonists, Macaroni
dancers, Pinerotic mummers, painters of the latest
Parisian nudes. Continental Socialists, Home Rulers —
whether living here or not, and how’ever famous or
even useful as importers of certain goods we lack—after
all, they don’t count. They don’t take us anyw’here.
They haven’t the root of the matter in them. We’ll have
our own say some day, and say it in our own way. Till
then we can wait and spread things.
“Smooging” in the Public Service.
N.S.W. Opposition leader M'Gowen, on the
Railway Commissioners Bill, made one remark
which deserved to be remembered :
If there was one man in the service who had a
happy knack of not making friends, it was Mr. Oliver.
And undoubtedly that fact has materially helped
on the proposal for Oliver’s unjust dismissal by
a contract-breaking Act of Parliament. The man
seems to have had no gift of smooging. He
didn’t know how to be properly affable to mem-
bers of Parliament and Ministers. But he did
know how to stand up for the public interest,
and was prepared to drop all affability and to
snarl when contracts tending to rob the public
purse were proposed. It is easily understandable
that a man of Oliver’s stamp should get on
Premier Carruthers’ nerves, for Premier Car-
ruthers is eminently of the non-quarrelsome,
peace-at-any-price type. He would apologise to
anybody, be civil to his vilest detractor, and put
up with any outrage on the public for the sake of
peace and quietness. But it is not easy to under-
stand how a majority of a Parliament —even the
N.S.W. Parliament—could even seriously con-
sider an Act to dismiss a public servant of this
type, whose administration shows success by its
results, and who is accused only of a want of
affability and a lack of the power to cringe. For
it is just men who lack affability and the capacity
to smooge that the Public Service wants. The
curse of all Government departments is the man
who devotes his best energies to cultivating the
good graces of his superiors, and can only spare a
very tired effort for the real work he is paid to
perform.
The Juvenile Smoking Prohibition Bill, which
will presumably be permitted to pass the Vic.
Legislative Council, promises to come hard on
the jockey mannikins who arrive at years of dis-
cretion without losing the appearance of boyhood.
If the provisions of the Bill are properly enforced
it will be impossible for the average adult light-
weight jockey to buy a “ smoke ” at a shop where
he isn’t known unless he can produce proof °f h'S
legal right to blow a cloud. Otherwise, the Bui
is nor open to even a humorous objection. It
ought to kill the lolly-shop cigarette trade in one
act. Also, it will tend to reduce the consumption
of tobacco by adults, who won’t be allowed to
begin smoking till they have sense enough not to
begin at all. The Bill might very well be amended
to prevent the sale of tobacco to all weak, under-
sized youths who have still a possibility of growth
in them ; in fact, there might be a height limit
for smokers as well as an age limit. As far
as the law can protect the physique of the
growing generation, the protection ought to be
enforced. If the sale of strong narcotics to
strong men is restricted by a Poisons Act, why
shouldn’t young weaklings be prohibited from
purchasing the narcotic that is mild?
- *
Just now, Melbourne is suffering from a wave of
moral hysteria, and, in a small way, the methods
of Mafficking night are being applied to the
regeneration of mankind. Melbourne has got the
Judkins disease in a bad form, and a bitter out-
break of snuffle spreads like a great, bleak, holy
gamp over the land. Within the last' few weeks
there have been put before the Victorian public,
amid the loud cheers of crazy audiences, pro-
posals—
(l) To abolish alcoholic drink, and uproot every vine-
yard in the State.
(2) To make gambling in every form a criminal offence,
and to empower the police to break into any house in
which it is reasonably suspected that a game of penny
nap is in progress.
(3) To suppress boxing.
(4) To make smoking, even on the part of adults, a
crime.
(5) To raise the age of consent from 16 to 21.
(6) To prohibit dancing by men and women, whether on
the stage, in a public ball, or in a private house.
(7) To forbid tights or short dresses, or low-neck dresses
on the stage.
(8) To prohibit mixed bathing, under pain of arrest and
imprisonment.
(9) To prohibit girls’ swimming matches to which men
are admitted.
(10) To abolish the life classes at the National Gallery,
and the use of models (male or female) by artists, and to
include nude pictures and statues in the clauses relating
to indecency.
(11) To abolish high-jumping at agricultural shows as
unscriptural.
There is very little left now, but probably before
this is published, Judkins, or some of his crowd,
will have advocated a Bill to suppress football,
cricket, lawn-tennis, and mixed picnics. So far, no
one has said anything against breathing, yet when
a girl in a thin summer blouse breathes hard, after
running, there is a heaving of her bust which
should not be allowed in mixed company.
‘—♦ ' ' .
George Reid rose last week to say that “it had
been alleged he was looking forward to having
pauper labor in Australia,” and that the state-
ment “ was one of the meanest and foulest slanders
ever uttered against a public man.” Well, here
are Reid’s own reported words of a few years
ago:—
We all HOPE that some day Australia will have a great
woollen industry, but that can only come when we are not
so well off. In the plenitude of time, when our millions
become tens of millions, we shall have a crop of misery
which will solve the difficulty in regard to cheap manu-
factures.
These were reported in the daily papers as Reid’s
own words on the subject. They set forth that he,
as a Freetrader, saw no way of getting a great
woollen industry except by raising “a crop of
misery ” —human misery—and at the same time he
hoped for the woollen industry, which reads much
the same as if he said straight out that he hoped
for the misery. A man with such an unhappy
way of expressing himself need not plunge about
so furiously when he is accused of looking forward
to having pauper labor in Australia. By his own
words that is just what he is—or was—looking
forward to. In fact, he seemed to be doing more
than looking forward to it; he seemed to be cry
ing out for it.
■ ♦
One of Vic. Premier Bent’s strongest points is his
attitude on the railway and land questions.
Thomas now declines to even think of a railway
unless the landowners, whose property will be
improved by the line, pay something towards its
cost. A case in point, showing the soundness of
Bent’s theory, is the proposed 60 miles of line
from Wickliffe-road to Lintons, across a por-
tion of the West Victorian plains. For more than
two-thirds of the distance the line, as surveyed,
will run through large properties. For 12 miles
it traverses McPherson’s Nerrin Nerrin estate (a
property of about 60,000 acres), and it runs for
nearly the same distance through the adjoining
estate, equally large, of Ceramballac, which
belongs to a Chirnside. The construction of the
line would add about £2 per acre to the capital
value of the two estates mentioned. That is, it
would be equivalent to presenting Chirnside and
McPherson with £120,000 each. And Bent
doesn’t see why Chirnside and McPherson
shouldn’t be satisfied with a smaller present than
that, so he demands a contribution from the big
landlords. Until they come to terms, the line
will not be further considered, there being, un-
fortunately, no Betterment Tax system, under
which Chirnside and McPherson would have to
pay whether they liked it or not.
: «.
“ Woomba” writes, from Toowoomba (Q.): —
A few nights back I went to see and hear G. H. Reid
go through his performance at the local Town Hall.
He started by saying that, although he was an anti-
Socialist, some of his best friends were Socialists, and he
sympathised with a lot of their aims, and he thought
they could sink the Sosh and anti-Sosh question safely, as
the time was not ripe for Socialism to become dangerous.
After wandering through various subjects for hours he
finished up by stating that Socialism was a hellish con-
trivance, and he would fight it to the end.
His chief argument why Protection would not be a-
success was that all the large factories were established
in Sydney and Melbourne, and if a high tariff were estab-
lished Sydney and Melbourne would capture all the busi-
ness of the other States, consequently prices would In-
much higher and the poor farmer would have to pay
The Need for Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world needs Men —the world needs earnest
fighters,
Strong men endowed with granite wills ;
The world needs scribes —needs grim, defiant
writers
Whose ink like boiling lava spills.
Too long we bow to charlatans and pandars—
Too long we commerce with buffoons ;
Caesars we need, and fiery Alexanders —
A band of resolute dragoons
To charge the ranks of sophistry and error,
To lay all lies and liars low ;
A cohort that shall strike eternal terror
In each disciple of Yes-No.
The world needs Men—the world needs mighty
Preachers
To draw mankind to surer goals;
The world needs Prophets—needs new Seers and
Teachers.
Men’s bodies are incarnate souls.
Grey catalogues of saints avail them little
Why proffer hands they cannot clutch ?
The faiths of yore are clammy, cold and brittle
They crumble ’neath the eager touch.
Give us a Faith —a faith in this Existence —
Give us a Heaven here below ;
We weary of the mirage in the distance.
We sicken of the vain Yes-No !
The world needs Men—not Mountebanks and
Jesters —
Not Pimps and pliant-conscienced Knaves ;
Wrong rankles still—malignantly it festers,
And all the earth is full of graves;
The world needs Men—Oh, don’t you hear it
asking ?
The world needs you—it needs you Now.
The world needs Men to set them to their tasking,
Behind the potent era-plough ;
The world needs us—it calls us to our labor—
The world needs US, and we must go ;
And we must work—must draw the mighty sabre
Against the Yes that is mostly No.
VIO.
GRANT HERVERY.


is
r
u %
r=V
-r
L iTT
V
J
>9
1 Here, cabby, what tobacco is that you smoke?” “ Gallahcr’s Two Flakes.'”
‘ By thunder, drive me somewhere where I can buy a ton of it.”
20,
Prize Scheme for 1905.
£250 in Cash Prizes
RANGING FROIVI£S DOWN TO $/-
to Collectors of Outside Wrappers
from Caillers Chocolates.
£62.10.0 .EACH QUARTER
Mch3P t .June3QT» 5ep3QT» Dec 15™
ALL SIZES,I?INCLUDED,ARE VALID.
your Wrappers to
j^cti£ce-r t, jg, p.0.80x/36, Sydney.
more for his machinery, so under those circumstances it
was better to have Freetrade and cheap prices.
On land nationalisation he considers it would cost
£500,000,000 to nationalise the lands, and immediately
that was paid over to the owners they would leave the
country, and we should have to pay £15,000,000 per year
interest, and as all the capital (£500,000,000) was out of
the country there would be nothing to pay interest with.
Then he went on to state that after the land national-
isation all industries would have to be nationalised,
and they would be wrecked through want of competent
managers, and he pointed the moral by stating that he was
not a business man, and should he be placed in charge of
a department, what sane man would invest £5 in any
business he had control of?
Having explained that he couldn’t be safely trusted
with a £5 job owing to his business incapacity, he urged
his audience to entrust him with the business manage-
ment of the Commonwealth.
In winding up, he said he desired to sink the fiscal
issue pending the death of Socialism, and that Protec-
tion, bad as it was, didn’t matter.
Finally, he seemed to imply once more that Socialism
didn’t matter much either.
4.
The Penny Post.
There is an appealing magnificence about the idea
of instituting an Australian penny post which
commends it to the unpractical mind. Little
wonder that it has won the approval of the
Deakin Government, which has for its leader a
man of poetic imagination, for its Treasurer a fine,
hearty spendthrift, and in its ranks no cautious
financial authority. Austin Chapman came back
from Europe filled with the idea of signalising his
term of office as Postmaster-General by bringing
Australia within the scope of an Imperial penny
post. John Eorrest, who holds the money-bags,
carries generosity to excess, even in spending his
own private revenue, and Deakin, the final autho-
rity, is not the sort of leader to closely scrutinise
any proposal about which a colleague is enthusi-
astic. So a penny postage proposal is brought on
with a rush, and, The Bulletin believes, without
a single thought as to ways and means. To
have a penny post between Australia and
England would cost very little; but a neces-
sary accompaniment of that reduction is
penny postage throughout Australia, and the
revenue loss from that would be enormous. The
postal authorities estimate it at £300,000. The
Cabinet, in the flush of its enthusiasm, cuts down
that estimate by 25 per cent. But the Postal De-
partment, which can take a calm view of the
matter, is much more likely to be correct in its
calculations as to the cost. It is also opti-
mistically forecasted by the Cabinet that the
deficit, would “soon” be made up by increase
of correspondence. But no reasonable anticipation
would construe “soon’’into less than 10 years;
probably it would really mean 15 years. And
that is a long, long “soon.” Meanwhile, there
are far more pressing matters on which the Com-
monwealth can spend £300,000. There is the
acquisition, for instance, of the Northern Terri-
tory, its colonisation, and its linking to the great
cities by a railway. There is the building of the
Westralian railway. There is the provision of
naval defence. There is the re-organisation
of the citizen militia, and the establishment
of, at least, a small-arms factory. There
is the matter of old age pensions. All
these are essentials. “Penny postage with-
in the Empire” is a sentimental luxury. If the
Commonwealth revenues were superabundant
there would be nothing to be said against the
cheapening of postage. But that is far from
being the case, and penny postage inevitably means
the postponement of some much more essential
matter which would make a call on the revenue.
Under the circumstances it is the duty of Parlia-
ment to put a check on the generosity of the
Government. Time enough when Australia is
secure to think ot cheapening postage. More im-
portant now to make it a dear matter to send an
invading army here from a foreign country than
to make it a cheap matter to send away an order
for imported goods.
«
The councillors of Upper Yarra have just given
amazing evidence of what the Victorians who
support the ’Pootra brand of politics are capable
of. Long ago they borrowed up to the legal limit.
Then they raised an overdraft, till the bank grew
weary and stopped further advances. Since then
they have given cheques, though at the time there
were no funds to pay them, and nobody has charged
them with issuing valueless paper. Their secretary
and engineer grew weary of the calls and insults of
the council’s creditors, and resigned his billet, first,
however, telling his shiftless bosses that their
present rate of Is. 3d.—levied on valuations that
were so low as to be quite bogus—was insufficient
to meet obligations, and that nothing lower than
2s. would do it. This council lately cadged £l5O
from Bent, on condition that it also raised £75
itself; yet, before it had raised a solitary £l, it
calmly let contracts up to £225. After the secre-
tary had wiped the mud off his feet and slammed
the door, the council considered the situation.
It was determined not to pay a penny
more of rates; but a genius pointed out
that, if it raised the rate to Is. Gd. and simul-
taneously lowered the valuations, it and the other
property-owners would actually pay no more in
the aggregate, but would get at the State for an
extra £2O or £3O of subsidy, a higher subsidy being
paid to a shire that rates itself at Is. 6d. than to
one that rates itself at Is. 3d. And this unblush-
ing scheme to diddle the people of Victoria by
faking the valuations was agreed to, not one coun-
nillor rising to describe it as plain swindle or any-
thing like that.
This is the S.M. Heb.yld’s latest attitude—if it
can be called an attitude — on the N.S.W. railway
trouble (extract from its leading article of
August 1) :—
It would be as idle to praise the Commissioners for this
year’s surplus as it would have been unkind to lay the
previous year’s deficit to their charge. They simply sat
down and watched the surplus grow. The favorable
seasons did the good work, and the Commissioners merely
sat at the receipt of custom.
Then followed this other yarn from the same
paper’s leading article of August 3 :
Curiously enough, if Mr. M‘Go wen’s ideas were followed
out there would be no Railway Commissioners at all. He
insisted last night that the latter had done nothing to
bring in the great revenue recorded by the Department.
The system and the seasons had done everything. . . .
Mr. Eddy’s work, on this showing, counts for nought.
. . . It is useless to argue with such prejudice.
Two points here stick out prominently. One is
that the S.M. Herald is so anxious to call any
Labor member a fool that it calls him one even
when he agrees with it, and this unseemly haste
makes the ancient Hunter-street publication look
ridiculous. On August 1 the Herald said the
Railway Commissioners deserved no credit for the
surplus that has been produced this year. On
August 2 Labor-leader McGowen said the same
thing, and on August 3 the Herald said that “it
was useless to argue with such prejudice.” The
second point is that the Herald keeps one atti-
tude for the Australian-born official and another
for the imported one, hence itsassurance(Augustl)
that Oliver, the Australian, should not get credit
for the good results shown to-day, and its fury
(August 3) lest the same theory should be applied
to Eddy, imported.
Coroner Cole (who is an M.D. also) has decided
that Donald M‘Lkod, the balancer whom parsons
and press alleged, in a loud, horror-stricken voice,
to have been kicked to death atFlemington (Vic.),
died from accident. The medical evidence, and the
other evidence given at the inquest, showed that
nobody kicked the man at all. He was struck a
few times, but nothing to speak of, except one
blow that broke his nose. His neck had been dis-
located either through his turning his terror-
stricken head too suddenly to watch his pur-
suers, or through falling with his head doubled
under him. Even then the dislocation was so
slight that it could probably have been reduced
and the man’s life saved. But those who assisted
him bumped him on to a stretcher and let his head
fall back in their haste to render first aid, and so
caused a laceration of the spinal cord that finished
him off. M'Leod went out to Elemington with
a red coat, some tickets, a bag, a false name and
no money, and died through running away from
his creditors, the case being aggravated by mis-
guided sympathy. If only Bent hadn’t been in
such a hurry to give Worrall that advertise-
ment !
7 ♦
The recent anti-Socialist N.S.W. Farmers’ and
Settlers’ Conference, having rejected by a big
majority the Progressive Land-Tax as being “rank
Socialism,” spent its seventh sitting enthusiasti-
cally agreeing to these few items :
(1) The State should publish a list of brands in use over
10 years.
(2) The State should handle and ship wheat in bulk.
(3) The State should post daily information as to the
market price of wheat at railway stations and post offices.
(4) The State should conserve water.
(5) The State should grant to single families in the
country the same educational concessions now given to
two or more families.
(6) The State should provide facilities for higher edu-
cation in country districts.
(7) The State should erect schools where desired by
parents along railway lines, irrespective of whether other
schools can he reached by train or not.
(8) The State should provide horse-paddocks, feed, and
sheds for the use of children who ride to country schools.
In fact, the State should do every kind of Social-
ism that costs money ; but the kind of Socialism
that would bring in a little money directly in the
shape of land-tax, and a heap of it indirectly by
cutting up big estates and making 100 agricul-
tural taxpayers grow where now there is only one,
is abhorrent to the grasping and brazen cadgers of
the Farmers’ and Settlers’ Association.
Thomas Bent now talks of buying out the Chows
who have monopolised the furniture trade in
Melbourne. It is the best solution of the difficulty,
he says. How? Does Tommy, as an advocate of
“ Safe Socialism,” think of taking over the trade
as a State industry ? If not, how would he pass
the purchased businesses on to the white workers ?
And what will he do with the Chow who is bought
out? Will he turn him loose to monopolise some
other business ? If Thomas buys out the cabinet-
making John, a steamship ticket back to Chow-
land will have to be part of the contract. This
Chinese worry in Melbourne shows that Customs
duties are only a portion of the big principle of
Protection to Australian industries and indus-
trious Australians. Protection set up a furniture-
making industry in Melbourne, but it did not
preserve it for the Australian workman. Mel-
bourne would have been little worse off if it had
been situated in Shanghai, and now it is neces-
sary to buy the foreigner out of the business Pro-
tection created. This is no argument against
Protection, but it is a convincing condemnation
of half-pint measures drawn up by timid half-pint
legislators. We want quart legislators.
If freedom of speech be essential to
progress, good sense and good taste are essential
to freedom of speech. An encouragement to the
exercise of these things lurks in every drop of
D.C.L. whisky. And if the drop be duly regulated
in size and frequency cheerfulness in good doing
flourishes like smiles in a genial human climate.
But is it of any avail to talk whisky wisdom to
rabid teetotallers ?*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ In London Town.”
Her Majesty’s “Dorothy Vernon.”
Criterion “Bleak House.”
Town Hall - Madame Dolores.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Queen’s Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers
Hippodrome Bohemian Dramatic Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The LittleMichus.”
Theatre Royal “ Honor Thy Father.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Apart from the fact that Burleigh wore
knee-breeches and the Virgin Queen an outstand-
ing collar like a brewery-horse’s, the lazy dramatist
finds some solid advantages in pitching his story
in the days of Good Queen Bess. In these later
slow-moving times the young man can’t be rushed
into matrimony until he has had his Sunday tea
at her mother’s for two years; and there is a
three-volume novel at the very least in the
couple’s picnickings and philanderings before the
arrival of the final five-shilling rise in salary that
can make them one. For dramatic treatment,
when the last train leaves at 10 minutes past 11,
there are serious disadvantages in this style of
courtship—more especially as the young man
nearly always does it in plain tweed clothes
with ink-spots on them, or, in the most
magnificent cases, in the same sort of gar-
ment that the waiter wears. They probably
did much the same sort of thing in the days of
Good Queen Bess; but it is quite easy to make a
theatre-full believe that they didn’t—that it was
then the thing for the young man to drop into
a garden in trappings of silk and velvet, with
a sword by his side, and win and woo Rosalind or
Dorothy before the shadow of the stately castle
tower stole one ell across the moated grange—or
whatever the old thing was that happened to be
there. And if another Sir Silk-and-Velvet hap-
pened to drop in—as it seems he had a habit of
doing—why, then, by our troth, there was room
and occasion for some pretty sword play, inter-
rupted by the arrival of an angry parent (with a
large stomach, and also in velvet—in brown vel-
vet) ; and pointed references to dungeons and the
block followed. So we have something like a
revival of “Elizabethan drama.” We also have
“Deadwood Dick” literature; and in a cold,
deadly analysis there is not much elemental
difference between them. They belong to the
same school —one for boys, the other for girls.
# * » *
It is most fit .and proper that Miss Tittell
Brune should lead the latest outbreak of this
class of “ Elizabethan drama ” at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney. For Miss Brune is the pre-eminent
Girls’ actress. On Saturday she opened her new
Sydney season ; and before 4 o’clock there was a
petticoated crowd around the gallery doors,
waiting to scramble for the pick of the seats
nearly four hours later on. Shop girls mostly,
they seemed, spending their Saturday afternoon
off in this patient adoration of the little Ameri-
can ; and at 8 o’clock the tightly-packed house
received her with almost frantic enthusiasm.
Three-fourths of the circle was Girl, in one stage
or another; there was Girl in the boxes; it was
Girl who capped the crowd, leaning over the
topmost guard-rail, high up in the gallery.
It seems hopeless to ask Why? Have the
paragraphists done it, just as the other week
they sent tens of thousands to stare at the “Light
of the World”? Or has she done it for herself?
Anyway, there is the adoration, and it is the real
thing. Act after act, call after call; and Miss
Brune comes on panting as though she had run
two miles and got there. It matters little whether
she has done well or ill. Her “ Dorothy Vernon,”
now played here for the first time, is much below
the standard of her own earlier work. But the
unsatisfied critic still has to confess that the house
is utterly against him. Dorothy \ ernon is a
spoiled child; and spoiled children run in all
shapes. But Miss Brune’s spoiled child leaves no
fixed impression ; she is not one spoiled child,
but several, and of different ages. She
can make love, though—or be made love to!
When her head is on his shoulder (Thomas
Kingston has arrived to supply the shoulder),
nobody could be more “ clingsome,” nobody could
say more prettily that she will be his —all his.
Thomas Kingston, still spare of limb as in the
old days, retains his good voice and graceful,
spirited ways; on- this occasion he is the young
man who drops into the garden, pretends he is
somebody else, and wins Dorothy in four minutes
by the post-office clock ; but he has to pass through
three more acts, filled with deadly peril and
elaborate stage-carpentry, before he can carry her
off. Queen Elizabeth arrives late in the evening
and disposes of things in her red-headed, regal
way ; and, though a good deal of what she has to
do is almost foreign to the piece, Miss Vaughan’s
characterisation is one of the distinguished fea-
tures of the performance.
. * -:tf * *
“ Jo,” who was always being chivvied and
chased about, just like our own “ Jo ” Carruthers,
but without deserving it as he does, comes out of
the pages of Dickens to Sydney Criterion stage
next Saturday at the call of Miss Beatrice
Holloway. Sydney hasn’t had a real good weeper
of a play for some time now, so something of the
sort should be about due. And there is a lot of
misery about “Jo,” which will take well and
give unhappiness to all.
* # * *
New names are liable to happen on Sydney
Tivoli bill at any moment now ; for these are the
last nights of Brinn, who juggles with cannons on
his face, and Miss Lilieth Leyton, who has helped
to bring back the old farce to music-hall favor.
Meantime there have been numerous resurrec-
tions, of whom Kelly and Agnes are the most
notable. But Little Cliff remains the bright star.
Mostly the stage youngster is a parrot, more or
less well-trained. But this one struck the Tivoli
first as a youngster whose work wasn’t mechani-
cal ; and now it is opening its eyes wide at his
versatility.
* # * *
“In London Town,” staged at Sydney
Royal, on Saturday, shows Miss Francesßoss with
golden hair a-down her back ; and Walter Baker,
instead of making love to her with exuberant
boyishness, leaves that pleasant task to Max Max-
well, and acts her prodigal father, who has come
home after finding a gold reef where the busks
were thrown out, and is searching for his child with
a million in each pocket. Otherwise, it is about the
same Bland Holt melodrama. As usual, Walter
Baker has, in his youth, fallen a victim to the wiles
of villain Styan, has “donetime,” hascomeoutof
the place where time is done to find his wife stolen
by the villain, and goes away to America, after
leaving his little daughter in the care of the father
of the extra-villainous villain Norman. When
the play opens, villain Norman has accumulated a
big record of plain and fancy crimes. Among
other things he has “led astray ” one girl who is
an illegitimate daughter of the elderly hero's wi^ e
by Norrison (Styan), and he has his eye on
Alice Dalton (Frances Ross) who is Hargraves’
legitimate daughter. Failing with her the
villain pursues her through four acts and passes
off his lady love (Miss Harrie Ireland) as Har-
graves’ real daughter. There's the story, which,
of course, comes to a happy ending in Scene 3 of
Act IV. It’s a yarn in which the improbabilities
don’t bump against public notice at every turn,
but are occasionally disguised more or less—often
less. Allowing that people can be gulled in the
simplest way (and look at the number of votes G.
H. Reid can poll !), everything that happens “ In
London Town ” could happen, and, if the long
arm of coincidence creaks at the joints occasion-
ally when overstretched, Mr. and Mrs. Bland
Holt come in and relieve the situation with some
humorous by-play.
* * * *
Acting of “In London Town ” is, as is
usual in Bland Holt’s theatre, of sterling merit
throughout. Both Miss Ross and Miss Ireland
are excellently suited, and the fact that Baker
plays an old man part—and plays it remarkably
well—gives something of an air of novelty to the
cast. Max Maxwell takes on the responsibilities
of juvenile lead with success, and an outstanding
feature is Arthur Styan’s effective character
sketch of the old blind rogue, Norrison.
** * *
Sixteen-year-old Ella Caspers’ contralto
voice was sampled by a Sydney audience for the
first time on Monday night, and the audience
liked its flavor so well that it intends to keep an
eye on the singer, and an ear open for the
development of her voice. The latter is of rich
and tender quality, and if the fair-haired pos-
sessor, who is going to settle down to earnest
study in Sydney, fulfils in maturity her vocal
promise of to-day, she will reach a music-peak.
And, when she does —well, long may she peak !
Rivers Allpress, “dear” Mr. Sykes, Mr. Nield
and the Garcia School girls were amongst those
who gave assistance at the concert.
** * *
“ Are you a follower of Brahms ? ” That
is what the horde of performers in the Amateur
Orchestral Society are asking Sydneysiders these
days. If you are not, you will never join the
heavenly throng. Brahms, the last of the Immor-
tals, died in ’97. Last Thursday, the A.O.
Society performed his Symphony in D, for the
first time in Sydney, and the society thinks it did
it so well that the Master’s spook was seen by the
performers in the act of applauding. The
Symphony is fearfully long, and this writer
is assured that, if one were educated up
to it by five or six hearings, the hearer
would learn to love it as the crow loves the beasts
that perish if they aren’t toolong about perishing.
As it was, this listener sat back with shut eyes,
whilst the tenths and twelfths were getting inter-
locked, and whilst the cross accents and triplets
were doing .something fiendish with two bars of
three-four time, and tried to think of what a
famous American critic had said of Brahms. He
was “a composer of great spiritual obsti-
nacy.” Now, that is very soothing. The orches-
tration bristled like a thousand black cats, but
by repeating inwardly again and again “ Brahms
was a composer of great spiritual obstinacy ” the
listener was kept cool as iced goods. But in spots,
in many spots, the Symphony bursts into flower
and fruit, and parts of it ejects cut jewels.
When these spots spotted, the listener, by dint
of deep brain-sinking, recalled the facts that
“ Brahms was modest to gruffness and he
loved beer, the society of Women and good cook-
ing, and sea air and basses are the ground
elements of his music.” The three thousand or so
persons who audienced the piece received it about
as warmly as they do their gas bills—which only
proves that they are not educated up to Brahms.
But they roused up heartily for the rest of the
programme, especially for Miss Doyle’s singing.
The damsel is a Brisbane girl (high mezzo-so-
prano), a pupil of Hazon’s, with a most attractive
presence; but nervousness caught her by the
throat, and often nearly strangled her pretty
notes.
** * *
HONOR THY FATHER.
At Melbourne Royal, any night, when Anderson’s in
charge,
The soul that seeks dramatic thrills can get ’em, fine and
large,
For that’s the place where evil deeds are done in won-
drous ways
By Willard, of the skating gait and sneerful, cynic gaze ;
Where Laurence Dunbar wades in blood for Ada Guild-
ford’s sake ;
And Cross gets “ pinched ” for stealing things which he
would scorn to take ;
Whilst, ’neath the shadow of her hat, Miss Duggan vents
her grief,
And ’Erbert Bailey spreads himself in “ comedy relief.”
In England, Russia, France, or Spain the changing scenes
are laid,
But ever by the same bad man the same girl gets be-
trayed :
She wears the same long cloak of shame, her hair hangs
down her back,
And wrongfully her “ fall ” is charged against the hero,
Jack.
Poor Jack I His uncle casts him off, he suffers all the
time,
He stands suspected by the world of many a scarlet
crime ;
But still the long-lost heiress shares that hero’s troubled
life,
And waves her arms and proudly bears “ the sacred name
of wife ”
When any villain comes to woo, and throws her off the
roof,
Because he wants to win her love and seize the missing
Proof.
At last the other woman brings a message from the dead,
And sins enough to sink a ship are heaped on Willard’s
head.
The comic Bailey prances round ; Miss Buckley pats bis
cheek;
The supers’ hearts are full of joy—too full to let them
speak.
For Jack has proved his innocence ; the clouds, he says,
are psat,
And Virtue, good old Virtue, reigns triumphant at the
last.


The Speediest Cure.
It Gets There Quickest
S f>n
ALL CHEMISTS, Is.
Four Times the Quantity, 2s 6d.
INSIST ON
“FISHER’S”
Kidney flilments
WHEN you have any SUSPICION that your
KIDNEYS are GETTING BAD, take
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE
TO CLEANSE AND STRENGTHEN THEM.
It is invaluable as an agent to ward oil Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, and Backache.
Thousands of people take an occasional dose of
“Fisher’s” Phospherine
to keep their kidneys in perfect order, and up to
the mark.
A most WONDERFUL MEDICINE, easy to
take, absolutely superseding awkward pills and
heavy drugs.
Many people as a precaution against kidney and
bladder troubles take it in their whisky or in wine.
TEN DROPS MAKE A DOSE.
A MOST EFFICIENT DOCTOR,
AT SMALL COST.
(post free) FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 George Street, Sydney.
This is not a strictly accurate synopsis of
Anderson’s latest melodrama, the title whereof is
“ Honor Thy Father.” In the present instance,
the trouble concludes with an “ Apotheosis of the
Heroine on Angel Wings,” and the dark, familiar
Millard is, as a matter of fact, conspicuously
absent from the cast. All the other members of
the stock company happen in their usual manner,
and “Honor Thy Father” will agitate the feel-
ings of the Andersonian public for 12 nights only.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) will be the last of
‘The Squaw Man,” at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne), but in order that Charles Waldron, Miss
Humphrey, and the rest of the co. may show
what they can do with another drama, “The
Christian ” will be revived on Friday, for one
consecutive night. The part of John Storm, the
hot gospeller, should be right into the hands of
Charles Waldron, and the company, as a whole,
looks quite capable of giving Melbourne an im-
proved opinion of this uneven play.
** * *
On Saturday the new season of comic
opera begins with “ The Little Michus,” which is
expected to explain the meaning of many
mysterious advts. re the Gazeka. Favorable
verdicts on “ The Little Michus” have been de-
livered in Sydney, and more recently in Adelaide,
therefore Melbourne, being hungry for any sort of
musical piece, looks forward to this well-bred
French opera with yearning eyes.
* -* -& *
R. G. Knowles, after putting in a pros-
perous seven nights at the Princess’s, has taken
his nimble tongue inland, and at Bendigo he will
conclude his tour on Friday. The Princess’s,
just now closed for want of a tenant, will be
devoted to a reproduction of “The Fatal Wed-
ding ” at an early date.
At Melbourne Town Hall the renewed
municipal organ, with Edwin Lemare at work
upon it, accounts for large audiences twice a week.
Last Saturday’s recital was the tenth of the series,
and the reception given to the performer indi-
cated a growing popularity. Mr. Lemare, by the
way, is going to deliver four afternoon lectures on
Wagner’s “Ring,” at the Athenaeum Hall, this
month. To-night (Thursday) an amateur attack
on two original Australian comedies will be con-
ducted by the author, Arthur Clarice, at the hall
aforesaid. Other halls seem to be suffering a
recovery from the recent epidemic of benefit
concerts.
* *• * -*-
New arrivals of vast importance will pro-
bably burst forth at the Opera House ere these
remarks are published. At time of writing, there
is room for new arrivals, and Seymour and Dupre
are about to go away and leave more space for the
imminent events.
* * *
Last night of his season in Australia
William Collier told his Sydney audience :
We had a terrible time before we came to Australia.
We had to pass through earthquake and fire in ’Frisco ;
and then, to get to Sydney, we had to pass through Mel-
bourne, which was almost as bad.
And more to the same effect. This represents
characteristically the mummer’s attitude in life.
Melbourne didn’t rush to admire Mr. Collier; in
fact, it stayed away from his hard Yankee fun-
making pretty unanimously. So, to him, Mel-
bourne is Mud—a city with no artistic appreci-
ation and no life. Actors (which term, for the
purposes of this paragraph, includes actresses)
always judge a city by the audiences it gives
them. If there is poor business, that city is a
wretched place and all its citizens should be in the
penitentiary. Similarly, plays are judged by the
actor according to the “ fat ” they afford him. A
good play is one in which he has most of the
iimelight; a play in which he is subordinate is
“rotten.” Writer remembers a charming actress’s
judgment on a new play. “The first act was
lovely—just lovely. But I don’t know how the
audience endured the rest.” The conclusion arrived
at (and afterwards found to be correct) was that
the play was much the same all through, but gave
the lady a fine show in Act 1., and no show at all
in Acts 11. and 111. and IV. Melbourne probably
won’t pass any sleepless nights owing to Collier’s
criticism. If it has any tendency to insomnia, it
can comfort itself with the words of high praise of
Melbourne, mixed with disgust of Sydney, which
some other actor man has uttered for equally bad
reasons ; and when Sydney meets that other actor
man, it will have no need to lie awake either.
* * iif &
The Comic Opera Co. has passed on from
Adelaide Royal, much regretted. “The Shop
Girl ” called up various recollections, mostly
pleasing, of Bradfield and the old Gaiety crowd.
The one thing certain is that the piece was better
staged this time ; the mountings of the plays have
been a great feature of the brief season. So has
the wealth of feminine talent. Florence Young
was a constant feature, but hardly any cast could
find places for Clara Clifton, and Evelyn Scott,
and Alma Barber, and Connie Milne, and Nellie
Wilson all at once. “Paul Jones” was the
farewelling production, and the vacant place was
immediately filled by “ The Man from Mexico.”
Improbable is a feeble word with which to
describe this American jumble of convicts and
step-dances, but it serves well enough to reintro-
duce a more volatile Willoughby and a more
genial Ward than of old. As for Miss Palotta,
she does not alter. The Tivoli continues in the
ways of Variety, with a marked and mutual
reliance on male talent. There is some fair
conjuring, and tumbling, and acting; and two
good points are a farcical sketch that does not
end with an explosion, and the absence of any
fliekergraph. The “marvellous” Corrick family,
however, has come back to the Town Hall, and,
in the intervals of making a wide variety of
music, the Corricks rely on the flicker-film a good
deal.
(»ne of the first results of William Lyne’s
Federal Bounties Bill has been the decision of
Victorian Minister of Agriculture Swinburne to
start the State growing flax. He sent an
officer to Maoriland for some thousands of flax
plants. These are to be planted on about 250
acres of State lands in the Blackwood and Leon-
gatha districts. Swinburne reckons that flax-
growing ought to be a profitable industry in
A' ictoria, and he is putting an officer of the Agri-
tural Department in charge of this State Socialistic
enterprise, with'orders to hustle like all Gehenna.
Of Queen Elizabeth we read —
“ Cold made that monarch croak.”
To save that Queen from catching one,
Sir Walter spoilt his cloak.
But had she ruled us now, you know,
For very trifling payment,
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Would save poor Raleigh’s raiment.”
AT POVERTY POINT.
Prince’s Court, the Melbourne Summer rendezvous for
blokes and tarts, is to have a rival. St. Kilda Beach is to
be made into an attractive trysting place for Bill and his
“ bit of skirt.” A syndicate has secured the permissive
occupancy of the reserve in which Pat O’Rourke
came mysteriously to his death a few weeks ago. The
bloodstain is to be removed, and the reserve is to be
surrounded with a 12-foot iron fence and the country
inside it christened “ Dreamland.” What the people who
pay to go inside are going to dream about, and how they
are going to do it in acres are secrets that have not yet
been divulged, but it is safe to forecast on the strength of
the name that Judkins and co. will fall up against the
new idea.
Edward Miles, the Cold Country’s oldest Thespian,
who went to the pit in his private box, the other day, at
the age of 92, took to the boards in ’34 at the suggestion
of Grimaldi. He played Romeo at 19, harlequin at 60,
and retired in his 82nd year.
The late Johnnie Toole was a devil for his practical
joke. It was necessary to his reputation as a tremendous
humorist to go round, playing off tricks and wheezes ;
and during his acting in Melbourne he strained some
points to provide amusement for his friends out of hours.
His favorite jest was to go into an ironmonger’s shop,
and ask for a pound of tripe, or to march up to the teller
in a bank, and demand a glass of beer. Old Johnnie told
of many successes with this freak, but he never told
of his escapade in entering a dainty milliner’s shop
in Swanston-street and asking for an iron stove.
“ I want to buy an iron stove,” he said. “ Have
you any good iron stoves ? ” The young woman behind
the counter looked amazed, and then she said gently;
“ I cannotsay, sir, Will you sit down ? I shall inquire.”
Johnnie sat down, and the girl went to inquire. She re-
turned, and talked soothingly to him about the beautiful
stove that had been sent for, till the mistress of the
establishment came hastening in, via the front door, with
two policemen in tow, and tried to give the eminent
comedian in charge as a lunatic at large. J. L. T. had
to identify himself with his own photograph before the
police were satisfied that it was wise to let him go.
Dunedin Star dramatic critic the other day set himself
to be bright and allusive, and wrote of one character in a
melodrama that he was “ called upon to wander through
a desert ere he sights the Canaan of his part.” The
comp, set it up “can-can,” and so it was printed ; and
the humbled paper had to explain next day that there
really was no indecent dance in Mr. ’s part.
Harry Rickards, of the Tivoli and other Australian
theatres, entered, some time ago, into an engagement
with Ferdinand Glinserretti, leader (and owner) of a team
of five acrobats, for an Australian season. Hearing that
a change had been made in the team, Rickards declined
to keep the contract, on the ground that it was no longer
the crowd he had engaged. An action in the King’s
Bench, in which Glinserretti claimed £2OOO damages, was
the result, and the verdict went against Rickards for £5OO.
Miss Tittell Brune gave a quite too sweet performance
of fresh, young-girlisli innocence at Spencer-street station
(Melb.), the other afternoon. When she arrived in a
brougham to catch the Sydney express, a bodyguard of
eight gushing damozels took her in charge. It looked
as though she must have invited them to play a hasty
game of romps with her before the train went off. The
average age of the affectionate young creatures was about
17£, and some of them wore their back hair in a pigtail
with a ribbon at the end of it. They loaded her with
bunches of violets ; they hung on to her arms, fought for
the privilege of getting close to her, and generally con-
ducted themselves like lambkins. The actress meanwhile
played the part of a slightly elder sister, unconscious of
everybody save her bevy of playmates. It was only once
or twice that Miss Tittell marred her clever impersona-
tion of artlessness by glancing keenly about her to judge
what kind of effect the show was creating for advertising
purposes. Can a well-known actress on a railway plat-
form ever forget to lose sight of the fact that she is adver-
tising herself?
The just-deceased Russell Sage, the American multi-
millionaire, was as well-known for his meanness as for his
millions. His name was familiarised all the world over
by the “Belle of New York,” in which “the Queen of
Kammic Appera” (American pronunciation) used to sing:
When in my diamonds I appear
I look like a beautiful chandelier,
And Russell Sage would fall down dead
If he’d to pay my salary.
Chronicled that, when San ’Frisco was shivering, the
famous tenor Caruso rushed into the street in slim attire
and, excitedly accosting a well-known attorney, said,
“ What shall Ido ? ” “ Oh, don’t bother me, you d
Dago; I have troubles of my own,” said the attorney.
Earthquake is a great leveller. It brings 10-storey hotels
to the dust and reduces the greatest tenor on earth to a
mere Dago.
“ Cockaigne ” : Toole may have been a good actor in his
early time, but, when I saw him, he was only a comic
lecturer, and not so good as Greville at that. London
steams the acting out of man or woman. Ask any Austra-
lian what he thinks of Beerbohm Tree. Even at his little
London house Toole’s seasons had much of the bogus
element to get up the reclamO for the provinces. Usual
trick. “ One hundred nights in London. Must be good.”
When he went to America they said, “ Here’s the joker.”
So they gave him a dishful of clams to eat, as “Our
Oysters.” After negotiating one, Toole said, “ I feel as if
I had swallowed a baby.”
“S.S.” : It took Milo and Cruickshank a week or so to
make an impression in the fog of London, but when they
did arrive they arrived with emphasis, and presently
their names sprang from the foot to the head of the
Pavilion bills, and were screamed at Johnnie Bull in capi-
tals half a yard high. The London papers now say
“ there has never been a greater attraction at this house,
and you are lucky if you catch a glimpse of the stage,
much less of the lady.” Laing, who devised and worked
up the whole show in Melbourne, has now only one dread
—the fear that his Pansy Montague will be sought in
marriage by some wealthy earl. He took an aborigine
nullah away with him for the express purpose of warding
off eligible peers.
“ Snell” : “Little Mary ” regarded as an entertainment
struck me as the clumsiest device that ever brought
loads of gold to a successful dramatist- It is a problem
play in the true sense of the term, since what it’s all
about is supposed to.remain a problem to the audience
till the last gasp. Then it is discovered with grievous
disappointment that the solution was not worth waiting
for. Barrie throw's in a few decent scraps of character,
and turns a ray or two on a human truth here and there ;
but after a curtain-raiser, a prologue, and an explanatory
first act, people are still W'ondering- what it’s all about,
and waiting anxiously for the entertainment to be sprung
upon them. They lave all heard that the mystery
hinges on the digestive apparatus of man, and they think
it will work into a blaze of humor presently, but it never
does, and the denouement is, after all, only a bald ex-
pression of the obvious. Barrie asks us to believe
that Moira Loney gets into an aristocratic family,
and in the course of eight weeks up-ends its
eating arrangements, and revolutionises its mode
of life and its moral attitude, without anybody dis-
covering that she is responsible for anything. The play
is a succession of great preparations for things that don’t
happen, the author is all the time leading up to jokes
that don’t come, and the curtain falls on a huge disap-
pointment. I’ve read that “Little Mary’s” success in
London was due to the gratitude society felt because the
play had produced a phrase that would enable it to refer
to its “ innards ” without feeling that it was rude. Cer-
tainly this is something to be grateful for, as that portion
of us has been almost unmentionable outside medical
treatises since people knocked off talking familiarly of
the lower chest in Smollet’s time, but it’s an amazing
excuse for the success of a bad comedy.
“ T.D.”: Melbourne’s ethereal pianist, Una Bourne, has
arrived in the Big Smoke, more slender and lily-like than
ever, after making a round of the Continental cities.
When I saw her, t’other Sunday, she was one of an in-
teresting trio of former prodigies from Australia, other
two being Amy Castles and violinist Nora M'Kay. Come
to think of it, Australia has an astonishing record of pro-
digies for its age, and beats the older countries hollow
when it comes to the subsequent development of artistic
maturity.
There is no doubt Tittell Brune is a women’s woman.
One little girl at a large dressmaking establishment asked
for the afternoon off to go and bid the lady adieu. She
got it, also a month’s holiday without pay for her “im-
pertinence.” “ But,” said the little worshipper, “ I don’t
care. I asked Miss Brune to kiss me, and she did.”
Ellen Terry, who has just had a jubilee, is engaged by
Beerbohm Tree for a revival of “ Winter’s Tale,” the play
in which she made her first appearance on any stage.
he will act Hermione in her old age. Probably she will
yet act Juliet.
A number of girls in this country will be more or less
thrilled by the news that Maurice Farkoa, the effeminate
Frenchman who appeared with the “Three Little Maids”
co., has got rid of the white forelock which streaked his
head of hair. Just now he is playing the part of a
Chinese lover in “See See,” a new comic opera, and his
hair is all black. He has either dyed the eccentric fore-
lock black to harmonise with its surroundings, or he has
ceased to dye it white, or he has unpinned it and put it
away in a trunk.
“Nym”: In your issue of last week “Melb.” asks if
Tom Lewis, the lad old “ G.8.W.” used to tumble on his
soles, was his son ? In this matter I plead ignorance, but
I do know that “G.8.W.” bad one son, George, by his
charming wife. When last I heard of him, George Lewis
was an orchestra conductor at the Empire, or Tivoli, or
something in the musical line, in London.
It is said that no woman ever was so innocent as Edna
May looks.
A three days’ gorge was lately held to celebrate the
anniversary of the annexation of Cook Islands to Maori-
land. Multitudinous heathenish antics were gone through
in the guise of old-time dances; ceremonies were per-
formed in honor of land, sea and war deities, and a native
drama was staged. The actors didn’t spend much at the
costumiers—just painted themselves various colors,
daubed their heads with mud, and rushed on. Encores
weren’t allowed. It was a wild production, and might
take in Sydney for a half-night season.
“ Melb.” : At one time G. B. W. Lewis got £lOO a week,
a la Hernandez, for equestrianism. In 1872, Mr. and
Mrs. Lewis took a dramatic co. from Australia to
Bombay. Shafto Robertson was a member ; he was a
brother of Mrs. Kendal and of dramatist Tom Robertson.
On the voyage Shafto fell from the deck into the engine
room, and was killed, on the same day that Walter Mont-
gomery suicided in London. When Creswick came here
he was bitterly disappointed because his old chum
Coppin would not engage him for the Royal. He was on
the point of returning to London when the Lewises en-
gaged him for the Bijou.
“T.D.”: The high water mark of success for an ora-
torio singer in England is to secure a footing as soloist at
the great provincial festivals, where Handel and Men-
delssohn serve as the supporting pillars, and a roof is
provided by the compositions of Elgar, Parry, Standford,
and other British composers of “solid” merit—in two
senses. So far, two Australians, Melba and Crossley,
have been included among festival singers, and a third
will shortly have to be added in the person of Melbourne’s
Mary Conly, who is to sing at the great “ Three Choirs ”
turn-out at Hereford towards the year-end. Madame
Conly is one of the singers about whom comparatively
little has been chronicled in Australia, probably for the
reason that she has been kept so busy with English work
that she hasn’t had very much time to send the wily
paragraph around.
Melba still retains her position as the operatic “ star ’
of the London season. Her appearance in even such an
old-fashioned work as “Rigoletto” draws a “brilliant”
audience, with King Edward and a crowd of royal parties
in the foreground. A “ Melba Night” is the same attrac-
tion that a “ Patti Night ” used to be. Talking of Patti,
she may be described nowadays as a cockney fetish. She
gave an afternoon concert at the Albert Hall in June, and
the musical critics told her that she retained “ all her
ineffable purity of tone,” and was acquiring new “ depth
and richness in her lower notes.” Which means that
Patti, at 63 years of age, is not so much a singer as an
institution. People go to see her and applaud. At the
concert in question the other vocalists were Santley
(older than herself), the veteran tenor, Ben Davies, and
Ada Crossley, whose voice, of course, was a refreshing
contrast to the others, but who got no particular mention
from the newspaper flatterers of the elderly Madame.
REV. WORRALL the Methodist parson who
nearly tipped Bends engine off the line.
Photo, by Vincent Kelly, Bendigo (Vic.).
Australian singer, Frances Alda, had a law suit in Paris
lately. She had leased aflat from M. Alexandre Henzey,
a member of the French Academy and a grand officer of
the Legion of Honor, and, in spite of his protestations,
adorned her balcony with boxes of flowers and kept a
lapdog in the flat. So Monsieur of the French Academy
and the Legion of Honor brought an action against her,
in the Second Chamber, for £l2O and the rescinding of
the lease, with the result that Frances had to pay him
£32, and shift her flower-boxes and dog elsewhere.
“ Melb.” : How much better is Knowles able to pull a
great house by himself than he was when encumbered by
assistance 1 Then he and a galaxy of artists, such as
Henry Lee, could not magnetise a crowd among them.
This was Garner’s last shot, so far as concerns us. He
was too far ahead of the time—and Rickards. A man of
sound taste, Arthur Garner. He could see form at a
glance. But what’s the good, if you haven’t the tide
running with you? Garner wrenched round the
whole Australian drama, and paved the way for Brough
and Boucicault, when he brought hither his London
Comedy Co., including Blanche Stammers, her mother,
that elfinishly-gifted, unlucky Fred Marshall, and so forth.
Your Coppins and other Artful Dodgers had been saying
that nothing so intrinsically good could pay. Maybe it
did not pay mightily. As middleman with Williamson
and Musgrove, Garner was the impracticable, the seventh-
heavenly sort. To he sure, he made a mush with Fleming
Norton —but only because F.N. was patronised and spoiled
in London by royal highnesses. Taking Garner all round,
he would fail where such managers as Henry Irving,
Charles Kean, Phelps and Edwin Booth fail—-in romantic
and somewhat noble ideal.
“ The Moocher ”: Re Ella Caspers. Rejoiced to hear
that, anyhow, one budding genius thinks Australian
teaching good enough for her. I framed The Bulletin
photo, of her; and wish she may prosper. Have often
thought that teachers here are, to a great extent, respon-
sible for the efflux to the Old Land of all our promising
young musicians. Herr Screamer finds a girl in a far-out
town. She hasthe makings of a good voice. He sees in her a
good advt. for himself, so he booms her hard and then ships
her to England. Result: much talk about clever Herr and
an increase in his roll of pupils. Few seem to notice that
she is heard of no more ; and, by the time she is forgotten
out here, Herr is ready with a fresh wonder. No doubt
Ella Caspers has a hard row to hoe. When she is
“ finished,” the Very Best People here won’t like her.
She is bound to be “ offly crude, you know.” Yet I think
the people, the mere vulgar majority, will like her all the
better for being “ made in Australia.” Anyway, here’s
luck to Ella !
At last, O, my country’s art! Manager Cole, of the
Bohemian Dramatic Co., Havmarket, Sydney, allows to
being anxious “ to hear from anyone with good Australian
dramas for disposal.”
Nemesis, or some other long-armed avenger,
has overtaken all the available members of
Melb. Hospital committee who helped in
that competitive design affair some months
ago. The committee awarded the first prize
of £3OO to a close friend of one of themselves,
despite the report of the appointed judges that
his design was nothing like the best. Three of
the minor committeemen who voted for paying the
money to their colleague’s friend stood for re-
election last week. They were opposed by three
men almost unknown in public life. These three
went in easily, and the old ones came to the
ground with a heavy noise. Apparently the
governors (which is .Johnsonese for subscribers)
thought that a hospital committee so willing to
look after its friends has little time left to look
after the patients.
Victoria is again wasting money on its
Fisherman’s Bend Canal, the tortuous channel
whereby steamers crawl up to Melbourne between
two flat and muddy wildernesses. The canal was
made on the advice of that imported engineering
genius, John Coode. It cost almost as much as
would have sufficed to dig a straight channel from
Melbourne to Port Melbourne, abandoning the
Lower Yarra altogether, and the straight channel
would have reduced the distance from Melbourne
to the Bay by one-half, consequently there would
be only half as much channel to keep dredged.
Why Sent can’t make up his mind to abandon
the troublesome old canal, and let the Lower
Yarra go to perdition, and make the short cut
even now, no one seems able to understand.
The Local Government Extension Bill,
now before N.S.W. Assembly, makes provision
for much municipal socialism. Schedule 3,
embodying the powers which may be conferred on
a municipality, enumerates, among other things,
the ownership of water-supply and sewerage,
trams and light railways, ferries, markets, light-
ing, swamp reclamations, butter factories,
dairies, public baths, hydraulic power, public
batteries, laundries, kitchens, pawnshops, lodging
houses, amusements and workmen’s dwellings.
Useful powers conferred are to regulate all solici-
tation or collection for charity, the opening of
roads, and the erection of houses. Put together,
these represent a fearful amount of municipal
socialism.
WHEN THE CIRCUS CAME TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the circus came to town,
With its coaches and four, and its steeds galore, and the
band, and the painted clown,
Out to the street with a shout we’d fly,
To look at the elephants marching by ;
Our hearts would beat, and hopes run high
As we followed it up and down ;
And naught in the air, the sea, or sky
Loomed half so large in our youthful eye
As the circus that came to town.
And after it we went.
And we got in the way of the men when they were rigging
the circus tent:
And around the animals’ cage we’d fool,
And push the ape from his three-legged stool,
And get chucked off by the bucking mule
(Which a charm to the business lent).
We wagged it a week, awaj r from school,
And got found out, as a general rule—
A thing that we’d all repent.
When the circus came to town
We swallowed our tea in a trice, and then to the tent
would hurry down,
And we took the full of our shilling’s worth,
And we cheered the drummer’s pond’rous girth,
And clapped our hands in the height of mirth
At the tricks of the painted clown.
And wond’rous thoughts in our minds had birth ;
And we thought that the band was the best on earth,
Of the circus that came to town.
We fondly recalled the scene,
When the elephants went and the circus tent no longer
adorned the green,
The cowboy decked in his gaudy scarf,
The juggling man with his magic staff,
The songs that we heard on the phonograph,
And the smell of the kerosene ;
And we started a show on our own behalf,
And “ performed ” on the back of the poddy calf,
And sighed for the might-have-been.
Now the circus comes to town,
And it rattles along, and a bare-foot throng is cheering it
up and down ;
And the elephants still are marching there,
And the thud of the drums is in the air-^
But the hands of Time the mask will tear
From many a painted clown ;
Clumsy, indeed, is the dancing bear,
And the wonderful band has a tinny blare
When the circus comes to town.
N.S.W.
MARY ANN.


Furred vSßins
Rabbit vSkins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGNHENTS TO—
HILL CLARK ®, CO.,
Wool and Produce Satesmen, SYDNEY,
PUT THIS IN YOUR NOTE BOOK.
IT WILL PAY YOU to obtain a free copy of our latest Illus-
trated Catalogue from which to select your Photographic
requirements. Write for a copy now. It won’t take a minute.
HARRINGTON’S
IS THE LARGEST
PHOTOGRAPHIC EMPORIUM IN
THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
CAMERAS
Latest Styles ; All Grades.
For Plates or Films.
From ss. up to £5O.
CENSES
By the World’s Leading
Scientific Manufacturers.
SUPPLIES
Of every conceivable kind.
Always Fresh, Reliable,
Goods at Popular Prices.
HARRINGTON & CO., LTD.
386 GEORGE ST. E™, SYDNEY, and 93 Queen-st,, Brisbane
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
Methodist parson Worrall, of Victoria, a
loose-tongued fanatic who talks violently of
heaven, hell, hotel bars, horse-racing, and other
matters of which he knows practically nothing,
was summoned to the Vic. Parliament House
last week to receive the dignity of a censure
from the Speaker for having uttered “a false,
un-Christian libel ” upon members of Parlia-
ment in general, and Sam Gillott in particular.
The Speaker’s censure was a wisely worded
address, therefore parson Worrall, in getting it,
did actually receive an undeserved dignity.
Bent’s Parliament, having summoned the absurd
preacher to the blessed Bar of the House, was
bound to take him seriously, and the verdict
of the public is that it served Bent’s
Parliament jolly well right. The incident
is regrettable only for the fact that Brother
Worrall’s libel was not nearly so true as it might
have been. He left unsaid the things that he
ought to have said, and he said the things he
ought not to have said, and there was no health
in the ravings of Brother Worrall. The pub-
licity given to the parson’s nonsense may help to
hasten the suppression of Law-breaker Wren, in
his present capacity of a mock philanthropist and
champion of the Labor party, but it can’t be much
of a help, anyhow. For the moment, the uncom-
promising Methodist preacher looks rather less
foolish than the legislators who called him to
account for his foolishness.
WELSHED.
“ Did you have any luck at the races , Bob? ”
"Rather. W hy I hacked the winners in the first
four races , and I’d ’ a’ hacked him in the
last, too, hut I hadn’t any money left.”
Every party (almost every man) in the
Victorian Parliament came with discredit out of
the farcical Worrall scrimmage. Bent and his
backers blundered through a series of humilia-
tions. The Labor Opposition consented to the
initial foolishness of calling the screaming parson
to the Bar. and, by so doing, forfeited its claim to
be regarded as the defender of tfc free preach.’ 3
When the parson arrived, and stood to his pop"
gun, Prendergast,.Warde and others made free-
dom of speech their text, but not ail their mouth-
could give their action the aspect of any-
thing but a political dodge. MacKinnon and
l eacock sat alertly watching for chances to cap-
ture toe Methodist sympathy ahead of the Labor
party. Through the debate, Sam Gillott, the
person most concerned, sat with his hat pressed
down over his eyes—a depressed and Worried
trimmer. As a side issue, Worrall stated that,
after the performance was over, he and Gillott
met and shook hands cordially. Worrall pro-
fessed to believe that there was blood on Gillott’s
hand, but perhaps Gillott wiped bis allegedly
gory paw on the tail of Worrall’s coat before the
shaking operation took place, and thereby saved
Worrall from going away with the appearance of
Macbeth after ho had made a vacancy where
Duncan used to be.
* * * *
Ordinary Victorians have to take what
they get in the way of railway carriages, and be
thankful that the thing is a carriage and not a
trolley. But the Rev. Henry Worrall and his
admirers arc apparently not pleased with any-
thing infermr to the best rolling-stock in the State.
-i“ e hysterical shepherd, who carries two hand-
kerchiefs to weep into, seems to have been
sobbing some more, for Hicks, M.L.C., deemed
it necessary to move in the House of Proputty—
That, as the railway carriages of the special train run
from Bendigo to Melbourne on Tuesday were quite unfit
for use, the Commissioners should provide better and
more suitable vehicles.
Ihe tickets for the special that conveyed the
martyr to be eaten by Bent’s lions were sold at
11s. each little more than half the ordinary
second-class return fare. Present writer and
numerous other persons have frequently had
to journey to Bendigo during the past few years
(paying full fare) in antiquated second-class car-
nages which had no ventilators, and in which
each window consisted of an immovable sheet of
glass. Also, the paint was worn off the grimy
walls, and the seats were so close that the knees
of the two rows of passengers almost met. Com-
pared with these, the carriages of the Worrall
cheap special were palatial, and, besides, martyrs
ought to put up with some inconvenience. Yet
’lcks, M.L.C., shows a lofty disregard of the
insanitary carriages that are inflicted on the
ordinary, full-paying passenger, and grows indig-
nant only when Worrall and his followers are not
favored with satin and rosewood for 11s. That’s
so like Teles.
* * * *
One of the most cheerful things in connec-
tion with the Martyrdom of St. Worrall hap-
pened at the Commonwealth Parliament. A
number of Judkins’ friends turned up there to see
the martyr come through the flames—apparently
they had been too busy pursuing the flesh and the
devil to know that two lots of Parliament were in
session. There were a couple of parsons among
them, and, after listening for two hours to Bigjohn
Forrest’s Budget speech, it dawned on them that
something was wrong ; possibly they had come
too late, and the martyr had met his doom already.
As they were about to make inquiries, a wicked
pressman happened along, and, after directing
them to the State House, thoughtfully informed
them that Worrall had been fined £lOOO, and that
Bent had been ordered to sit upon his chest till it
was paid. Then they went away sorrowfully.
* * * *
Apropos the Chicago packing industry, it
is said that that Successful Merchant’s last letter
to his son was simply L.
* * * *
The S.A. military forces have an amateur
millinery branch, known as the__Scottish Corps.
The members
receive no pay
for their services,
and have to buy
the weird gar-
ments that only
partially cover
their Highland
nakedness ; but,
as the Adelaide
girl loves their
variegated, mys-
terious skirts,
. and is interest-
ed in the wee
bit o’ Tam
that inter-
ven e s be-
tween hi s
stockings and
his petti-coat,
the heroes
pay up and
look pretty.
Now. there is
wrath, mu-
tiny, and the
howl of the
out-raged
haggis. Sev-
eral Scotches
yearned to
extend their
operations of
feminine slaughter
into the country districts, and arranged to give a
concert and dance at a little hamlet a few miles
from the city, but General Labor-member|Smeaton,
who commands the menagerie, forbade the use of
the claes to subdue the timid rural maiden, and,
when the McDonalds persisted, had them forcibly
restrained by the common drunk suppressor. The
outraged Caledonians invoked the retribution of
law, and now McSmeaton and the Commissioner of
Police are each sued for about a million for damag-
ing the feelings of the uniform.
* * * *
If “ necessity is the mother of invention,”
what would a girl of 12 who sets fire to a quantity
of bedding to prevent her mistress going to the
theatre, be the daughter of? An Auckland
demoiselle has just raised that problem.
THE CRAZE FOR ATHLETICS.
THE MISSUS : “ Julia Murphy , have you been drinking?”
J ULIA (indignantly): “Indade, an’ I’d have you know I’ve bin takin ’ lessons in physical
calcher; an’ now I’ve got the twist I’m a-goin' to jiue the stage."
It is surprising how seriously Victorian
swaddles take themselves. For about three days
every year they go to Langwarrin or some such
place and revel in scenes of imaginary bloodshed.
It is all imagination, and the best soldier is the
one who imagines most. Last Langwarrin camp,
an imaginary battle of singular imaginary fury
was fought on Mt. Eliza. The attacking party
imagined that Captain Crouch, who was one of
the defenders, had surrendered to them. Captain
Crouch imagined that he was still fighting, and
probably died sword in hand like an imaginary
hero. The attackers, however, told the papers,
which are always imaginative; and, after some
controversy, a Military Board was appointed to see
whose imagination was in better working order.
After hearing some acres of evidence and solemnly
considering it, the Board has now brought in a
comic opera finding quite in keeping with the rest
of the piece. It says that Captain Crouch never
technically surrendered, and, therefore, of course,
he was quite right in imagining that he hadn’t;
but it adds that he looked as if he had surren-
dered, and so the other side was quite justified
in imagining that he had surrendered —which
leaves things rather more mixed than they were
before.
The Victorian Government is in a difficulty
over Mrs. Cleary, widow. Long ago the late Mr.
Cleary, by virtue of his miner’s right, settled and
built a house on a bit of land in the bed of what is
now the Waranga Basin. A miner’s right isn’t
hereditary, so Mrs. Cleary, who still occupies the
place, is apparently just a trespasser on State
lands. But she declares she will not leave with-
out compensation, and when the Goulburn River
is turned into the great new reservoir next week
she will be drowned if she doesn’t leave. Mrs.
Cleary says cheerfully that she will just stay and
drown. The Bent Government recognises that if
it drowns even a trespassing widow in cold blood
it will probably lose its billet, and if it sends the
police to drag her out on a cold hillside it will
also create ill-feeling. Besides, she might even then
go back and drown herself at the old address,
whereupon people like Worrall might say Bent
killed her. Yet the open payment of compensa-
tion to a trespasser would be an awkward prece-
dent. Probably the best thing would be for Bent
to say openly that Mrs. Cleary will just have to
drown if she wants to, and at the same time send
round someone surreptitiously to bribe her to go
out. The amount spent might, perhaps, be put
down on the Estimates as repairs.
Sydney Morning Herald, when it joined
the syndicate to publish H. G. Wells’ forecast of
America’s destiny, caught a Tartar. Wells
deals it out heavily to private enterprise at inter-
vals. Extracts on Chicago :
It was like a prolonged, enlarged, mingling of the
south side of London, with all that is bleak and ugly in
the Black Country. It is the most perfect presentation
of nineteenth century individualistic industrialism I have
ever seen —in its vast, its magnificent squalor it is pure
nineteenth century. . . , It is indeed a nineteenth cen-
tury nightmare that culminates beyond South Chicago in
the monstrous fungoid shapes, the endless smoking
chimneys, the squat retorts, the black smoke pall of the
Standard Oil Company. ... Its owners have no more
sense, no better moral quality, than to make it stink in
the nostrils of anyone who comes within two miles of it,
to make it a centre of distribution for disease and decay,
an arena of shabby evasions and extra profits, a scene of
brutal economic conflict and squalid filthiness, offensive
to every sense. (I wish I could catch the soul of Herbert
Spencer and tether it in Chicago for a while to gather
fresh evidence upon the superiority of unfettered indi-
vidualistic enterprises to things managed by tlie State.)
Want of discipline ! Chicago is one hoarse cry for
discipline !
And referring to the bright spot in Chicago—the
well-known “ Field Houses ” :
And this Field House is not an isolated philanthropic
enterprise. It is just one of a number that are dotted
about Chicago, mitigating and civilising its squalor. It
was not distilled by begging and charit3' from the stench
of the stockyards or the reek of Standard oil. It is part
of the normal work of a special taxing body created by
the Legislature of the State of Illinois. It is just one of
the fruits upon one of the growths that spring from such
persistent creative effort as that of the Chicago City Club.
It is Socialism—even as its enemies declare.... !
One of the S.A. Judges, the other day,
spoke in open Court in severe condemnation of
somesolicitor—name unmentioned—who was need-
lessly causing a whole estate to be frittered away
in law costs. Then he neutralised the effect of
his pious homily by ordering that his remarks—
which didn’t amount to much in any case, seeing
that Gentleman One wasn’t identified—should not
be published. This sort of thing suggests a
grievous lack of moral courage on the part of the
man with the long rags on his body and the right
to wear the wonderful figment on his head.
From a Melbourne Argus leading article
(18/7/’O6): —
An even greater danger to the pedestrian than um-
brellas is the orange peel that is recklessly thrown on to
the pavement by all sorts and conditions of men, includ-
ing women and children, especially youngsters.
And the writer quite forgot to state that umbrellas
included dogs.
THE INCOMPREHENSIBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, let us wander Forth ! Ah ! Once Again
The Breathless Postman and the Borrowed Pen,
Also the Office Boy, who Staggers up
Bearing the Note that tells me Where and When.
Unmoved, he yields the Missive to my Clutch,
For Love he knows not, nor Cares overmuch,
But Whistles thro’ his Teeth and gets him Hence
(I’ve met, I think, At Least a Million such).
O ! Youth that never wrote to Ladye Fayre,
Or waited at some Windy Corner where
The Wintry Blast did shriek the Written Words—
“ I’LL run Out, if I have the Time to Spare.”
I do remember me a Summer Gone
She, too, was fair; and Oh ! her Eyes—they Shone !
(She was a Tea Room Maid and always Gave
A Smile away with Every Currant Scone.)
But now ! Ah me ! (plus) Well-a-day ! Alas !
(What pyramids of Grief we do amass 1)
We wandered Many Miles beneath the Stars
And parted—but we saved her Father’s Gas.
Please not to scorn this Tale, or Look Askance.
I only thought to Interest. Perchance
There is a sympathetic Soul somewhere
Who can appreciate a mild Romance.
VIC.
KODAK.


f
>■
Taught by Post.
Stott & Hoare’s
Business College
MOORE STREET,
SYDNEY. [8
E 2
PHOTOS
FKOM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. UENNERT, Sf>C. FB(i St. Martin, Paris, France
Correct SPRINg ClotbeS.
3
.
Guineas
Every known art will be employed in
fashioning and finishing my Spring Suits
in the best possible manner.
Designers of acknowledged skill.
Expert cutters make perfect fitting a
certainty.
Experienced tailors assemble, make and
finish the woi'k accurately in every
particular.
Patterns, Fashion Plates and Self-Measurement Forms POST FREE.
R. C. HAGON, Merchant Taiior, j 29 King' St., Sydney.
Salvarmy Commissioner M‘Kie draws a
luscious picture of the ball-room :
It was said that throughout the world 50 per cent, of
the girls who earned their living by shame fell first at the
dance. Private balls and dancing parties were the feeders
of public halls, and public halls were the harvest of the
libertine. They were the rivers that emptied themselves
into the ocean of abandonment. It was almost an utter
impossibility for any woman to walk into a ballroom in
the ballroom dress of the day without some man sinning
against her in his heart. It could not be proper for a man
who was neither father, husband, nor brother, even to
hold the hand of the lady as it was held in the saloons,
much less put his arm round her waist and draw her to
him until they could almost hear each other’s heart heat.
The Lord wanted us to enjoy life, but not at the expense
of other men’s wives and daughters.
It would certainly not be safe to invite Brother
McKie to a dance. This excited saint seems able
to imagine all sorts of sinful emotions that the
average ball-roomer is too world-weary to know
anything about. He knows exactly what artistic
feelings are roused beneath his fresh and innocent
old weskit by the sight of a pair of white shoulders
appearing through the mouth of the cavern of
evening dress. If he had started as a dramatic
critic when he was young, and sat among rows of
bare shoulders in the dress circle, watching the
sinful show on the stage, he would have found,
after a week or so, that he took as much interest
in all this beautiful meat as if it were hung up in a
shop and marked 6d. per lb. A Salvarmy Commis-
sioner seems able to get more excited about waists
and shoulders at the age of 40 or so than an ordi-
nary smoke-dried worlding can at 25.
A REASONABLE INFERENCE.
ABRAMS : “ Vill you come, and haff a drink mit
me, Bloomstein? ”
BLOOMSTEIN (amazedly): “ Vy , vere arc they
girin' 'cm away, Abey?"
A man named Ogier had a rare stroke of
luck, the other day. He was charged in Mel-
bourne with “receiving” a watch, the property
of newspaper man Cunningham— not the Cun-
ningham who steers the Argus, but the other one.
The exhibit was identified, and the case looked
all the blacker against the man because of
a whole heap of other charges. But while the
jury was making up its verdict a messenger handed
the Judge a parcel, which had just been left at
the Crown Law Office, containing an exactly
similar watch and a note bearing the words—
“ Cunningham’s watch. Ogier is innocent.”
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
Ballarat East has got
a prisoner with pluck.
Last April he departed
through an underground
passage, climbed a wood-
pile, placed a wheelbarrow
on top, and so reached the
coping of the gaol wall,
then jumped 25ft. down
on the other side. He
broke his leg, but managed
to crawl about a quarter of
a mile, and was found,
nearly dead, in a gutter.
He was in hospital after
that for months ; but dur-
ing the last few weeks
he had been hobbling
about on crutches. The
gaol surgeon reckoned that
the hobble was mostly
pretence, but before be
could give effect to his
thoughts the prisoner
cleared up any suspicion.
One night he stood his
bed up on end, and, work-
ing from the top, knocked
a large hole through the
brick ceiling of the
ward in which he was
confined. Then he climbed through the
hole into a dark labyrinthine kind of gar-
ret, started to belt a hole in the roof, and
was doing well when he was missed. A warder
reached the garret by another route and found
the nearly ex-prisoner waiting for him with a
brick. For reasons connected with a revolver he
didn’t throw the brick. Now, had the prisoner
got away, his only chance lay in doing the 25ft.
drop over again, and on the doctrine of chances
and averages he would probably have broken his
neck this time. Even Brassey, who was an ex-
perienced faller-off, couldn’t make a habit of
dropping 25ft. with impunity. And, rather than
stay in a nice warm gaol, this hardened breaker
and departer was ready to take the chance.
* * *
The other day some nature-lover told
Premier Bent that those in charge of that beauti-
ful Melbourne city playground, the Fitzroy Gar-
dens. were cutting down big trees by the dozen,
and replacing the grassy lawns with dolly flower-
beds, in the Monkey fashion. Bent went and
saw, and said that if the destruction didn’t cease,
the annual vote would. The axe and saw lay idle
for a few days; then they got to work again in
the same old manner. But it is significant that
all through these gardens the English elms, oaks,
and other trees are carefully guarded. It is only
the native trees that are hacked and hewed about
and rooted up, as though they were an eyesore and
an abomination.
* * * *
“0.K.” : The various American ways of
uttering the English language are ordinarily
classed together under the term “accent,” but
whereas the accents —
there are several of them
—are peculiarities which
may be pretty accurately
mimicked by an Austra-
lian, the American pro-
duction of words begin-
ning with a vowel seems
to be inimitable by
foreigners. You notice
it in the talk of the
women, rather than the
men, as though it were
almost a distinctively
American sexual pecu-
liarity of speech. The
pronunciation is labored,
not to say clumsy, where
the word starts with a
vowel—especially “o”
or “ a.” The cockney
drops aspirates from
where they ought to be
as easily as a Frenchman
who is speaking English.
Or he will put in a false
aspirate with absurd em-
phasis. The American
woman, well-educated or
otherwise, has a tendency
to struggle with “o’’ or
“a” at the beginning of
a word, as though she
were fighting against the
temptation to put in an
aspirate. She “makes a
mouthful ” of the smallest
words. Miss Ola Hum-
phrey, the leading lady in
“The Squaw Man,” is
one more instance of an
American actress who can-
not adopt Hamlet’s advice
to the players. Words
which should be spoken
“ trippingly on the tongue”
have to be brought out
from under the tongue, or
forced with difficulty from the back
of the throat. The effort is palpable. One can’t
imagine these American ladies reeling off long
speeches with the ease of, say, Miss Maud Milton
(of Musgrove’s Shakspearean Co.), although her
musical intonation was rather American in its
cadences. What is the original cause of the pecu-
liarity, and why is it more markedly feminine
than masculine?
There are some practical people in Ade-
laide. A local youth was accused of impossible
behavior in the family circle, and the accuser was
his own father. Did the maligned son commit
suicide, or biff his unnatural parent in the eye, or
clear his character, like Walter Baker, by enlist-
ing in the army and shedding much blood in the
forefront of the armed scrap? He didn’t. He
sued his father in the local court for £49 19s.
libel damages, and obtained a verdict for the full
amount.
“ Spring ” discourses on Blood :
How these stodgy weeklies love Blood 1 The issues of
Sydney Mail and T. and C. Journal on a recent date
were two big, red smears. Each sheet seemed to pro-
claim that it was more blanky than the other, and that
in its extra blankiness lay its claim to he rushed by the
public. One journal sent its photo, fiend to the slaughter
of beasts at Glebe Island. A picture showed a fierce-
looking man, stained with Blood, about to plunge
a murderous weapon into a peaceful moo-cow;
s bcr , aJtSLifWta.“
sheep. In another were shown designs cut in the
still quivering warm flesh by butcher artists stained with
Blood. Over all these hung a cloud of warm-blood
odors reminiscent of Chicago. These sickening, hut
true, sights were backed up by a more or less reliable
picture of Father Gapon’s death. The pale, strangled
corpse, grotesquely twisted, grinned from the cheerless
page. An artist’s conception of the Madrid bomb out-
rage was served up hot and steaming on another
page. There was a lot of Blood on the street that
day. But in the pictures of the Ballina murder
the camera gloated with its star gloat. The face
of every one who had the remotest connection
with the butchery looked out proudly on an appreciative
world. The usual cross of the cheap, back-street tragedy
press located the place where one victim fell and the
letterpress proudly stated that Blood was found there. I
searched in vain for a big, black cross pointing out the
spot where the rival reporters died fighting for the pos-
session of a blood-stained shirt; but I presume that they
did it, and that the picture was omitted by pure accident.
* * * *
Sydney potters away at a few small street
improvements now and again—that is to say, the
City Council does: the 43 outside municipalities are
hopeless, and seem likely to remain that way till
Greater Sydney comes to pass. There is more
sclieme than actual fulfilment about the Sydney
improvements—in fact, barring what was done at
Moore-street and Martin-place, it is difficult to re-
member that anything has really been finished
yet—but even schemes are better than nothing,
just as it is better to dream than to be dead. The
latest proposal is to widen Oxford-street, between
College and Bourke streets, from the present 60ft.
to 90ft. It isn’t a very big idea, for it will still
leave Oxford-street practically the only outlet
from the city eastward, and the improvement
can’t he carriprl far—at the host it rrmqf sten nt
can tbe earned tar at the best it must stop at
the boundary of the corpse-municipality of Pad-
dington—but still it shows that one of the 44
municipalities is threatened with intelligence.
„ * „ *
“Y. ” : Re deaths under chloroform—
Melbourne had two in a week—no evidence seems
to be given at inquests regarding the quality ot
the chloroform used. In the last Melbourne case
(a death at St. Vincent’s Hospital) it was sug-
gested that the chloroform might have deterio-
rated from exposure to light, which produces
suffocating chlorine compounds. That, probably,
is a danger which cannot be afterwards traced.
Another question concerns the purity of the
anaesthetic. Chloroform comes on the market at
various prices. That of a certain firm is said by
surgeons to he absolutely reliable; at other
samples they squint more doubtfully. Why not
analyse the chloroform whenever misadventure
occurs—or, better still, analyse samples of all
chloroform sent into the market, and allow none
to go into use that is not of perfect purity ?
Observed at Sydney Water Police Court:
Act 1., Scene 11. in the Crick-Willis-Bath Police Court
formality, on Friday last, was more interesting by reason
of the setting than of the action proper. The business
began with the calling up and disposal of several ladies
who had had rum overnight. Then the male drunks were
postponed to leave the way clear for the celebrities.
W. N. Willis headed a procession, which included Charles
Bath, Barrister Lamb (defence), and Barrister Garland
(prosecution), and Lands Commission Secretary Houston,
but no Crick. Willis seated himself serenely and con-
templated the court with subdued curiosity. Lamb rose,
explained that Crick was on his way from bis office,
and argued that an adjournment was desirable to
enable Willis to digest a blue book that would have
made a respectable load for a goat. He held the volume
of printed evidence in one hand, and over-balanced to
the left. It was a reckless proceeding, and for the futjur e
counsel will take that mighty tome in both hands. The
strong-man exercise impressed the court san evidence
of the size of the document Willis had to g J through. A
fireside-sort of conversation ensued about a holiday on
Monday, a half-day on Wednesday, and part-heard cases
in between ; and when it was, after 25 minutes, agreed
that Thursday was the day to adjourn to, it was casually
remarked that Crick was still on his way from his office,
three cricket-ball throws distant. WithoutCrick.it seemed,
nothing could be fixed. The court was assured that Crick
was coming. So the court fined five drunks and then Crick
arrived. He went nimbly to Lamb’s side, got the hang'
of things in a second, and pointed out to the bench that
Tuesday wouldn’t do as Monday was a holiday and Crown
witnesses would want a day or two to recover their sober
senses. Thursday would suit to begin the month’s work
So Thursday was agreed upon, and the procession lef*,
and the court fined some more drunks.
* * * •
The fact that Victorian Governor Ta'l-
bottle has presented Melbourne City Council wi th
a portrait of Lord Melbourne, after whom the
i city was named, recalls the fact that, before
a its final christening, Melbourne answered to
as many names as a lost dog. It came, m
fact, when anybody whistled to it. When
“the settlement,” or “the township,” was
recognised as inadequate, it became known
as Yarra Yarra or Yarrow Yarrow.
Later, it was styled Bearbrass or Bear-
grass (said to be a corruption of Bear-
purt, which was unreliably stated to
I be the native name for the locality).
Some of the residents from Tas-
mania took a hand by calling it
Batmania, after John Batman.
John Pascoe Fawkner, not to be
outdone, christened it Glenelg,
in honor of the Secretary for
the Colonies. Governor Bourlte squelched all
these names by officially making it Melbourne.
“Bob” McNa \ M.H.R., has for many
years been fossicking in out of the way places for
material for a work on the early history of
Maoriland and late ly made an important and
’ •' T . , , _ ~ , ,
unexpected find at Salem (U.S.A.). In that tar-
off town be dropped across, and photographed,
~,,. . . r . 1
the log-books of the Britannia, Lndeavor, and
Providence and secured a quantity of informa-
a«.»».**.*.*»*
under Captain Raven, of the Britannia, which
left j n Dusky Sound (Maoriland) in 1792. A
1 “ •>, ' t i Y „ if„i o9vnr
l o * l of mystery has surroun q j 1
some of whose timbers still lie in JJuslty Sound,
but this is now cleared up. The vessel wasn t
wrecked, as supposed, but was simply condemned
and abandoned in 1795, and arrangements were
d f th constr uction at the Sound of other
, , . , ~ ,■
vessels to take the sealing a yay
the first attempt at shipbuilding in the iYustrai-
asian States, and tile first vessel built was the
Providence. The energetic M‘Nab hopes to issue
book in about six months’ time. He will then
jt other dea ling with the American sealing
wu w «uu«udi, uv, f> . , , , 1707 A
and whaling trade with Maoriland from 1797 to
1865.
*** . *
Sydney WATCHMAN is sometimes as funny
as a circus. T’other day it dug out a yarn of a
lady who had been proselytised at the R.C. pres-
bytery, Bathurst, imprisoned in the Tempeß.C.
Refuge, and otherwise maltreated by ‘Rome,
In reply, “Rome” brought evidence that the
lady was never proselytised and was never im-
prisoned by “ Rome,” though she had been twice
in a common secular State gaol, and that she
"’as quite an uninteresting individual, with no
claim to all this sudden prominence. IheWATCH-
man swallows its fairy tale with a grimace, and
then, in no wise abashed, gets back to the old
comminations about “Rome” :
In all this sad business there is only one fact which
affords us any satisfaction. The woman in her declara-
tion said she had been a Protestant, but had yielded to
priestly overtures, and had become a Roman Catholic.
There is no evidence to justify that Statement. To the
?aol authorities she gave her religion as Roman Catholic.
Rome has herself denied any imputation of-perversion,
Protestant she never was. She is A PRODUCT OF
ROME—in many respects only too typical a product—
and, as such, after the demands of justice have been satis-
fied, we hand her back to Rome, hoping they will show
her mercy. Thank God, Protestantism has no such types
furni ® h •• • Naturally the question arises, Was the con-
-11 “
The parsons who run the Watchman kind of
literature don’t blush worth a cent when their
tal o bursts, and their injured heroine proves to
be a very ordinary kind of gaol-bird. A spieler
°. r a bottle-oh may object to being proved a foolish
bar, but a certain variety of parson only looks the
more virtuous when he is shown up. Anyhow,
why was this uninteresting female dragged into
publicity ? Apparently she was a dreadfully corn-
monplace person with a bad habit of getting into
gaol, and why there should be columns of shriek
on the Watchman’s part because she was a rene-
gade Protestant, and then more columns because
she wasn’t, passes comprehension.
SINNING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Men sin against women in their hearts.”—Moan from
Salvarmyman M‘Kie.
Girls with cool, transparent blouses,
Chatting to us in your houses—
Sweet and winning ;
Dainty things of white and pink,
Sometimes while we look we think. . . .
Are we sinning?
Maidens in the ballroom seated,
Silken dresses, ruched and pleated,
Point lace tricktd ;
Gazing at your throats, our eyes
May betray a slight surmise—
Is it wicked ?
Man and woman once abode
In a garden where there strode
Angels haughty ;
When, amid the murmuring leaves,
Adam’s eyes looked into Eve’s—
Were they naughty ?
Dismal Army man, beware 1
Poets make of women fair
Half their story ;
Eyes grow tender, senses thrill,
And around us trembles still
Eden’s glory.
VIC.
X.
MYETHICS
FOR THE BULLETIN
We don't do half the things we ought
•Cur time down here’s so cursed short
A busy wKirl
mostly
But iKowgk in some
Ihinga. I'm remiss,
I ctoVt reproach
tnq&eifwitk Ihi*,
iLt ever I d Ihe chance
to kiss /
A prettcj girl
And didrit take it.
KERAN.
AT THE COUNTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Time, the Teller, with an injured air,
Snatches our treasured notes and quickly bends
Over the counter, and—“ Are you aware
This paper’s only counterfeit, my friends ? ”
VIC.
KODAR.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLIANCES, Ltd- 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL. RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
p/\Dpy Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
nVJDE ■ Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Sheep Dips, Pearn’s Pumps, Mining Requisites, &c., &e.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Prime Minister Deakin, it is said, pooh-poohs
the idea of paying the States £9,000,000 or £10,000,000 for
transferred properties. His idea is that if the State which
transfers the smallest amount of property per head hands
over lands and buildings worth, say, £llos. per inhabi-
tant, then properties to the value of £llO per inhabitant
should be transferred to the Commonwealth by each State
free of charge, and only the surplus be paid for. Of course,
this idea is fair and logical enough ; for the people in their
Federal capacity to pay themselves in their State capa-
city for their own properties, except in so far as is
required to balance accounts, is quite unnecessary. But
it would be just as fair and logical for the Commonwealth
to make a settlement in full by taking over sufficient
State debt to cover the whole value of the transferred
properties, and anything that will make a beginning at
the transfer of the State debts to the Commonwealth is
highly desirable. In fact, this paper would gladly see
the Commonwealth pay 40s. in the £, and take over
£18,000,000 of State debts in payment for £9,000,000 of
State properties handed over, just to give the process of
debt transference an extra lift. It badly wants a lift.
m ♦ * *
N.S. Wales lias begun its new financial year
with a month’s revenue of £920,705, or no less than
£164,106 more than it had in July, 1905 ; and of that
£164,106 the railways supplied £57,885. The expenditure
charged against revenue was £936,661 ; so, in spite of the
enormous increase in railway earnings, the State went
£15,956 to the bad on the month’s transactions, without
taking into account the borrowed £124,786 which J. Car-
ruthers spent. The Julv revenue for the past four years
has beenl9o3, £898,300; 1904, £810,954 ; 1905,
£756,599 ; 1906, £920,705. So J. Carruthers got £lOO,OOO
more than the average of the previous three years, and
yet leaned on Cohen to the extent of nearly £125,000 —at
the rate of £1,500,000 a year. How much revenue does
the “ Reform ” Treasurer reckon N.S. Wales would have
to yield before it would be a fair thing to leave off bor-
rowing?
N.S.W. railways (apart from tramways) last
year earned £384,980, after paying working expenses and
interest; and, while bringing in a Bill to sack the Rail-
way Commissioners, Treasurer Carruthers collars this
surplus and wears it as a halo. Simultaneously he opens
the new Sydney railway station, which is about a mile
from the centre of the city, and more than that from
most of the wharves. Nobody knows what the old rail-
way station cost, but it Was probably £350,000 or
£400,000 ; and it is just now being torn up, and pulled
to pieces, and thrown on the rubbish heap. The cost of
removing it, along with the extra cost of carrying on the
traffic while it is being removed, will about counter-
balance anything that may be got for the old material.
According to every rule of honest finance, the cost of the
old rooted-up station, so far as it was provided out of
capital, should now come off the balance-sheet; in other
words, last year’s railway surplus ought to be used to
pay off that part of the old railway' debt which the old
station represented. To call the £384,980 profit, and use
it to make a surplus with, and encourage persons to come
along with demands for freight and other concessions,
while leaving the old station in the balance-sheet, is
financial fake and dishonesty.
Thomas Bent, of Victoria, having half a million
over from last year, announces that he will ship it to
England to pay off Bull Cohen to that extent; and the
man who can do that, while not borrowing to pay for new
works, could be forgiven even worse comic songs than T.
Bent sings. It is quite another thing to create a surplus
by deferring payment for works, or paying for them out
of loans. They do that in N.S. Wales and call it Reform ;
and the country is no forrader” than it was before—
or very' little. The result of Bent’s repayments will pro-
bably be that he will get money, which he will pre-
sently have to borrow to pay off old loans, at a much-
reduced rate of interest. Canada, which has a fine, sub-
stantial sinking fund, almost makes the fund provide its
own annual increments in this way ; the money it has
been able to save through the much-reduced rate of in-
terest at which Cohen is now prepared to lend to Canada
is almost equal to the sinking fund pay'ments. So Bent’s
£500,000 will probably be a very fine investment—even if,
as is likely, he borrows the greater part of his 1907
renewal loan of £4,000,000 in Australia.
The Victorian .loan of £4,000,000, which falls
due.on Ist July, 1907, was raised in 1881, and carries 4 per
cent. By the end of the year the State will have paid
26 years interest; and reckoning it as having paid com-
pound interest, Which is the only way the thing can
fairly' be reckoned, that £4,000,000 will have cost Victoria
£6,663,344 in interest alone. And Victoria will still
owe the original £4,000,000. On the other hand, if to his
renewal loan of £4,000,000 Bent attaches a provision for a
sinking fund of £lOO,OOO a year, invested at 3£ per cent.,
by the end of the next 25| years there will be just enough
accumulated to wipe out the whole loan and he done
with it.
YVestralia begins the financial year with a
deficit for July of £10,398 : revenue, £200,697 ; expendi-
ture, £211,095. About the same time as this was
announced, new Treasurer Wilson proposed a land-tax.
“ The falling-off in Commonwealth refunds in four years
had amounted to £352,084, and the interest and sinking-
fund had increased by £219,898, so the State was £571,000
worse off than when Federation was entered upon.”
In other words, mostly-absentee cos. were taking
out millions by skimming the cream off the country, and
there was a boom in consequence, and Westralia was im-
porting large quantities of luxuries in bottles and pots.
But instead of making those who were ravenously ex-
ploiting the country pay for the works necessary for the
exploitation, Westralia borrowed the money. Now most
of the cream has gone ; the bottled and potted luxuries
are not arriving in the old quantities; partly on that
account Customs have fallen off ; but the debt and the
interest bill remain. That this would happen might have
been easily foreseen, and almost as easily provided against.
The Government’s land : tax is not graduated ;it will be
no more than 2d.; hut there will be an extra 50 per
cent, on absentees. Its main object is to bring in
revenue; and the exemption stops at £250. It is
few of the things that a land-tax ought to be; but
Westralia has got into such a state that it must
do something, and this is a handy something. The com-
plete overhaul of the State’s public service might follow.
Westralia badly needs at its Treasury some plain, brown
man, such as Turner was and Kidston is, and Wilson has a
chance that rarely comes a Treasurer’s way.
In Treasurer Peake S. Australia has something
of a plain, brown man, too—only S. Australia is still
borrowing far too much. It had a surplus last year of
£112,474. It paid off £20,000 of Treasury bills during the
year; it did an amazingly honest thing, and wrote
£25,000 off the railways’ capital account; and now
£87'474 is available to redeem some more Treasury bills.
This £87,474 is presumably in addition to the ordinary
sinking-fund payments. S. Australia has two sinking
funds—one, created by ex-Treasurer Holder (now Speaker
of the Reps.) in 1896 ; J per cent, of the total debt has to
go to it yearly. That calls for about £60,000. The other
is a fund to wipe out deficiency bills, and calls for about
£20,000 a year—presumably the £20,000 previously men-
tioned.
Queensland received £118,106 more than it
spent in July—which is a handy contribution towards
the half-year’s interest bill. In July, 1905 the excess was
£94,638.
• * «- *
Outside Queensland, Fremantle (W.A.) is
the first municipality in the Commonwealth to run
its own tramways, but is setting a shocking example
in the matter of extravagant management. Instead
of having a committee of councillors, a Board of five
members has been constituted, and although the
duties are purely nominal the sum of £BOO per annum
is paid in fees —out of which the chairman collars
£2OO. The engineer-manager gets £750, and there
is a secretary and quite an army of clerks, messengers,
inspectors and other officials eating up the receipts at an
alarming rate. There are less than eight miles of tram
lines and only 14 cars constantly running. Perth Tram-
way Co. runs 45 much larger cars, and employs many
more hands, but has only a general manager and one
superintendent. Out of profits a sum of £3OOO to £4OOO
a year is handed over to the Perth City Council. Unless
Fremantle ratepayers look out they won’t have any
profits, but they will find themselves at the bottom of a
very deep hole. To pay interest on the loan for tram-
ways it has been found necessary to strike a fourpenny
rate, and next year the rate will be higher unless the
administration exes, are cut down. The trams are
popular enough, and under proper management ought to
yield a splendid profit, especially if they could be ex-
tended Perthwards. At present the only means of
crossing the Swan River at Fremantle is over an old
ramshackle wooden bridge erected by convicts nearlv
half a century ago. It impedes navigation terribly, and
ought to give place to a swing bridge of modern design.
According to a balance-sheet just published,
the Patriotic Fund, established six or seven years ago for
the relief of cohentingenters and their families, has still
to its credit a sum of £23,000, £20,500 of which has, within
the last few months, been placed on fixed deposit for two
years. Obviously, therefore, it is intended to continue to
hoard the money. There may be some excuse for hoard-
ing now that claims for assistance are probably neither
frequent nor urgent, but there was no excuse for hoard-
ing at an earlier stage, when applicants were often treated
in the most niggardly fashion. Writer remembers inter-
viewing the committee of the fund in those days on
behalf of a very large contributor, who was indignant at
the close-fisted policy that was being adopted, and who,
moreover, was in a position to make things very, very
uncomfortable. The committee was extremely angry at
its action being criticised, and asserted that it was doing
only what business men would do. It had to consider
the future, it said. Well, it has considered the future so
thoroughly that it has now £23,000 which it doesn’t know
what to do with. It is a repetition of the Bulli Fund
fiasco.
* * * *
The Victoria Life and General Insurance
Co. (Melbourne): —
Funds
(apart
Ex- from
June, Income. Claims, penses. Dividends, &c. Capital).
1896.. £16.995 £11,868 £1922 7£ p.c. =£3,000 £319,056
1897.. 17,244 7,443 2024 124 „ „ 5,000 321,833
1898.. 15,899 12,132 2219 I2£ ~ „ 5,000 318,381
1899.. 15,298 11,244 1615 15 „ „ 6,000 314,820
1900.. 14,062 8,735 1594 25 „ ~ 10,000 308,553
1901.. 14,050 11,506 1484 25 „ „ 10,000 299,613
1902.. 13,068 9,179 1419 25 „ „ 10,000 292,083
1903.. 12,434 10,146 1535 25 „ „ 10,000 I
Written off securities, £20,000 f " oZ > Bdt>
1904.. 11,976 9,776 1426 25 „ „ 10,000 i
Written off securities, £lO,OOO f Z4d,olu
1905.. 11,587 14,294 1330 25 „ ~ 10,000 229,573
1906.. 12,270 13,193 1540 25 „ ~ 10,000 217,110
It is when you look at figures like these that you feel
inclined to break out into a little song of thanksgiving
that your own life-policy is in a mutual office. In five
years this co., which, of course, is issuing no new policies,
has paid its policy-holders £56,588 ; but it has paid itself
£50,000. In those five years the policy-holders have paid
in, in premiums, £17,018 ; therefore the co. has paid
them £39,570 net. That means that, out of the
funds which existed five years ago, the policy-holders
have had £39,570 ; the shareholders have had £50,000.
Yet the policy-holders provided the insurance fund, which
even now amounts to £183,807 ; all that the shareholders
ever put into the business was £40,000. And though the
shareholders have for years past been drawing nearly 25
per cent, per annum on their capital, there is no teiling
how much more there may be for them to divide in the
end. It looks as though it will be something handsome.
A new line added to the balance-sheet explains that “ the
liabilities under life policies have been reduced during
the year by £14,160, leaving a total liability of £128,160
on all policies, including bonus additions.” Apparently
that means, not that £128,160 is the present value of the
liabilities, but that that is the face value of all outstand-
ing policies. In that case the co. could pay off all its debts,
still have its own capital and £48,950 to spare, and
then pocket as profit all future premiums, less whatever
small amount may be taken from them and returned by
way of bonus additions to policies. This is assuming that
by “ total liability on all policies ” is meant what will have
to be ultimately paid ; if it means present value of liabili-
ties which have not yet matured, the assurance fund
would still show a surplus of £55,647. In the mutual
office that amount would be available for distribution
among policy-holders ; in this purely Private Enterprise
concern, the shareholders get it. The expenses of
management amount to 52 per cent, of the premium in-
come. But that is not the expense of doing the policy-
holders’ business; it is very largely the expense of ad-
ministering the large surplus which the shareholders
maintain in the business, but which they are making a
brave struggle to reduce by drawing this 25 per cent,
dividend once a year.
» * * *
The Victoria Insurance Co. (Melbourne)
Added
to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1896 £17,058 36 per cent. = £17,974 • £80,138
1897 18,010 36 „ „ „ 17,974 £36 80,174
Loss.
1898 23,336 Nil \ „„„
Assets written down, £20,000 / 3o,sd»
Profits.
1899 14,597 9 per cent. = 4,494 10,103 46,941
1900 19,046 22| „ „ „ 11,234 7,812 54,753
1901 17,374 27 „ „ „ 13,481 3,893 58,646
1902 23,923 27 ~ . ~ ~ 13,481 10,442 69,088
1903 28,195 36 ~ ~ ~ 17,975 10,220 79,308
1904 28,068 36 „ „ „ 17,975 10,093 89,401
1905 27,571 36 ~ „ ~ 17,975 9,596 98,997
1906 28,330 36 ~ ~ ~ 17,975 10,355 109,352
This is another insurance co. which apparently pays too
big a dividend to please the insurer, who naturally looks
for a big lay-by to protect him in the case of something
serious happening. Yet, in eight years, the reserves have
been trebled ; and, as the risks have been increased but
little meantime, the co.’s present position is much stronger
than it was, and it is far better worthy of confidence. Its
paid capital is £50,181; on that and the reserves the
year’s profits were at the very fine rate of just 19 per
cent., and, if it could keep that up, something ought to
happen soon to insurance rates. But, as a matter of fact,
this co. (in common with most others, until the last few
months) has been having a remarkable run of luck lately.
This shows it to some extent:—
Net Ex- Expense Loss
Premiums, penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1900 £82,217 £19,224 £46,406 23'4 p.c. 56‘4 p.c.
1904 83,216 20,456 39,500 24'6 „ 47'4 „
1905 82,276 22,544 36,710 27 ’4 „ 44'6 „
1906 83,535 23,589 36,782 28’2 „ 44'0 „
This co. i 6 re-insuring rather more freely than it formerly
did ; and that no doubt accounts for some of the fall in
the loss rate, and it may also account for a little of the
very marked growth in the expense rate. As to the
latter, part of the trouble with the office whose business
isn’t growing is that either its expenses must grow or
efficiency must suffer. Here, though net premiums have
hardly increased at all in six years, cost of manage-
ment and charges and expenses at head - office
and branches have risen from £19,080 to £23,589.
As against that there has possibly been an improvement
in selection ; but the downward course of the loss rate
hasn’t been quite so regular as the figures above would
suggest; and, anyhow* these loss-rate figures are subject
to = a great manv outside influences. Generali}' speaking,
the last two or three years it has paid people to keep
their premises from being burned down. The co. s in-
vestments returned £5165 last year; this was at the rate
of a rather poor £3 6s. per cent, upon the average hold-
ing. Of the investments £12,351 is real estate, taken in
at book value ; another £69,556 is on fixed deposit, and
£37,332 is in public stocks, while only £11,900 is on mort-
gage. The money, therefore, seems to be handled rather
with a view to safety than to secure a high return ; and
that is the right policy with insurance funds.
* * * *
The Victoria General Insurance and
Guarantee Go. (Melbourne)
Added to Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1896 ..£4988 25 per cent. =£sooo £17,816
1597 .. 3689 20 „ „ 4000 17,505
Loss.
1898 .. 5011 10 „ „ 2000 10,494
Profit.
1899 .. 4511 15 „ „ 3000 £l5ll 12,005
1900 .. 3233 20 „ „ 4000 11,238
1901 .. 4741 20 „ „ 4000 741 11,979
1902 .. 4301 20 „ „ 4000 301 12,280
1903 .. 3957 20 „ „ 4000 12,237
1904 .. 3736 20 „ „ 4000 11,973
1905 .. 3334 15 „ ~ 3000 334 12,307
1906 .. 3534 15 ~ ~ 3000 534 12,841
It looks as though this co. were half inclined to turn over
a new leaf, and, modifying its dividends, put by a bit
more for the better protection, not only of its insurers,
but of its shareholders as well. It had a straight
enough tip, anyway, that its only hope lay in doing some-
thing of the sort; for its premium income was steadily
falling. Even now there is no recovery in that respect,
probably because insurers are not satisfied that the re-
form is lasting ; and it doesn’t amount to much of a
reform, anyhow—the lay-by is only just over one-seventh
of the profits ; and that is a wretched proportion in an
insurance concern, which is liable to be struck by some-
thing extra heavy at any time, and can’t (epecially when
it is small) be sure of any one year’s premiums covering
that year’s losses. A comparison of recent results shows
this :
1900. 1905. 1906.
Premium income .. .. £11,324 £9,443 £9,124
Losses .. 6,387 4,429 3,829
Expenses 2,864 2,973 3,103
Losses p.c. of premiums .. 56'4 46’9 41 "9
Expenses p.c. of premiums .. 25 - 4 31 - 5 34"0
The underwriting profit in 1900 was thus 18’2 per cent,
of the premiums, and last year 24'1 per cent.—which
seems to show that it has paid very well to increase the
expenses, and, apparently, to more carefully select the
risks. All the same, that policy can be carried too far.
You can go on reducing the loss rate till you get it to
nil by the simple process of selecting your risks
till you accept nothing at all. The only' drawback
about that system is that, having no income,
your profits are also nil. There is some doubt,
however, whether this co.’s expense rate has mounted up
quite so fast as the figures show. It adopts the unintel-
ligible plan of lumping together commissions and re-
turned premiums ; and as there has been a slight increase
in this item, a small part of the jump in the expense rate
may be due to more premiums being returned. The co.’s
funds are principally on deposit (£15,534), public stocks
(£13,954), and real estate (£9684). The stocks are in at
cost; the estate at book value. On the mean holding of
the investments for the year the interest earnings were
at the rate of £3 12s. 6d. per cent. —about low enough to
suggest that the stocks and estate are, at any rate, not
undervalued.
* * * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (N.S. W.):
Unex-
plained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- off Re- Re-.
Profits, serves. Dividends, serves, serves.
Dec., 1900.. £5518 £736 8p.e.=£5250 £27,767
June, 1901.. 5445 40 8 ~ ~ 5250 28,002
Dec., 1901.. 5480 8 ~ ~ 5250 £BO 28,152
June, 1902.. 5507 13,097 8 „ „ 5250 —, 41,506
Dec., 1902.. 3988 2,894 8 „ „ 5250 43,138
June, 1903.. 2583 6 „ „ 3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903.. 2665 500 6 „ „ 3938 40,820
June, 1904.. 3992 775 6 ~ ~ 3938 41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5596 3,987 8 ~ ~ 5250 45,982
June, 1905.. 5860 4,542 8 „ ~ 5250 51,134
Dec., 1905.. 6230 852 8 „ ~ 5602 52,614
June, 1906.. 7245 1,000 8 ~ ~ 6750 54,109
The reserves are—lnsurance, £42,915 ; equalisation of
dividend, £10,699; and undivided profit, £495, which
passes to the equalisation of dividend fund. Apparently
depreciation is charged direct to profit and loss ; but no
profit and loss account is published, and the amount of
the standing charge probably wouldn’t be disclosed even
if one were published. The size of this charge upon gross
profits cannot therefore be even guessed at. If, however,
it has been a uniform percentage there has been a fine
spring in profits—though those of three years or so ago
were unusually low on account of the drought on the
North Coast. Further details
June, June, Dec., June,
1901. 1905. 1905. 1906.
Capital .. .. £131,250 £131,250 £159,228 £175,000
Reserves .. .. 28,002 51,134 52,614 54,109
Debt to public .. 51,005 44,853 33,356 30,312
Ship property .. 94,623 175,000 184,730 201,179
Freeholds.. .. 81,939 26,294 25,765 24,631
Sundry debtors .. 17,577 22,279 24,008 28,354
Other assets .. 16,117 3,664 10,695 5,257
Five years ago the capital and reserves showed earnings at
the rate of £6 18s. per cent. ; now they are at the rate of
£7 45., including the unexplained additions to insurance
fund. These additions are, however, only contingent
profit; they are set apart to cover a risk which has partly
expired—the risk begins with the launching or purchase
of every boat. And as against the higher earnings shown
now there are greater risks : ship property has increased
£106,556 in five years, the money being provided partly
through increase of capital, but more through the
sale of freeholds (mostly taken over by the State) to the ex-
tent of £57,308. And, as before said, it is impossible to tell
how vigorously or otherwise this ship property, which is
open to heavier depreciation and danger, is being written
down out of revenue. When the co. stops to take breath,
and ceases buying up old lines and new vessels, some idea
of what it is writing off may be got; at present all that
can be said is that it appears to be easily earning its 8
per cent., and that its reserves could wipe out more than
one-fourth of the paper value of the fleet and still leave
capital intact.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steam-
ship Co. (N.S.W.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £3092 6 p.c. = £3OOO £92 £8793
June, 1905 .. 2960 6 „ „ 3000 8753
Dec., 1905 .. 3385 6 „ „ 3000 385 9138
June, 1906 .. 3053 6 „ „ 3000 53 9191
This co., which has been in existence for 14J years,
doesn’t give its 400 shareholders any too much information
about its proceedings. It shows just about enough profit
each half-year to pay its 6 per cent. Yet that did not
prevent a shareholder, with apparently a good deal of
inside information, suggesting at a recent meeting that
the dividend should be increased. And the directors did
not point to the figures and say the thing was impossible ;
spokesman John See said “the steamers were written
down with the object of making provision for the pur-
chase of a new steamer. There was no increment in
steamers, and they must be replaced out of earnings.”
Which reply suggests that the management is wise and
prudent. There is no increment in railway stations
either, yet wasn’t it spokesman John See who was
Premier when the Owe’Sullivan conceived the idea of
building a vast new railway station, not out of earnings
but out of the same old loan moneys that the previous-
station had been built out of ? What provision is being
made in this way by the N. and H.R. Co. it is not easy
to say; but some idea can be formed. Take this com-
parison :
Dec., June, Dec., June,
1904. 1905. 1905. 1906.
Ship property .. £41.300 £40,050 £39,080 £40,595
Freeholds, &c. .. 7,175 6,390 5,855 5,308
Plant.. .. .. 2,730 2,998 2,881 3,069
Liquid assets .. 66,157 68,321 70,265 67,551
Debts to public .. 5,568 6,005 5,943 4,332
Deduct debts to public from liquid assets, and it will be
found that the latter increased from £60,589 to £64,322 in
1905—a growth of £3733. So, in addition to the amount
spent on repairs and on plant, £3733 apparently represents
the earnings in that year after paying the 6 per cent.
dividend—the earnings, that is, available tor writing off ;
and £3733 is equal to 8 per cent, on the total book value
of ships, freeholds, etc. The experience of the past half-
year cannot be followed so closely, because there has been
an increase in the book value of ship property, due pro-
bably to payments on account of a new purchase; but
there is no reason to suspect that the same very prudent
policy is not being followed. The liquid assets, repre-
senting over 60 per cent, of the capital, are nearly all on
bank deposit.
» * * *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power
Co.:—
Written To Re- De-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. off. serves, ficit.
1896 .. £7,209 8J p.c. =£6,562 £647 £11,414
1897 .. 10,016 10 „ „ 7,500 £1250 1266 10,148
1898.. 11,531 10 „ ~ 7,500 1250 2781 7,367
1899.. 11,614 10 „ ~ 8,438 1250 1926 5,441
1900.. 16,498 10 ~ ~ 11,250 1000 4248 1,193
1901.. 10,058 10 ~ ~ 11,250 2,385
1902 .. 13,140 10 „ „ 11,250 1890 495
Reserves.
1903.. 13,499 10 „ ~ 11,250 2249 1,754
1904.. 13,889 10 ~ ~11,250 2639 4,393
1905.. 13,260 10 „ ~11,260 2010 6,403
June,
1906.. 7,057 10 „ „ 5,626 1432 7,835
The co. maintains a paper item among its assets—
“ Parliamentary rights and concessions, £ls,ooo—dis-
regarded in the foregoing. The position of the reserves
is as follows :
Plant renewal account £15,500
Waterloo lease reserve account .. .. 5,500
Undivided profit 1,835
Total nominal reserves .. £22,835
Less paper asset 15,000
Balance £7,835
More or less, this balance is not genuine reserve either;
it is mostly a provision for the renewal of works which so
far have been kept in repair out of revenue. The whole
undertaking is in the balance-sheet at original cost; the
reserve accounts are equivalent, then, to an allowance
for depreciation. The one advantage about this system
is that it purports to set out the total amount written off
or provided for depreciation, although that can be done
just as effectively without inflating balance-sheet figures,
and by a plan which isn’t liable to give wrong impressions
as to the nature of the reserved accounts. But, so far,
no renewal has been paid for out of this account; if
renewals have been necessary (and presumably they have
been, for the co. is 16 years old), they have been paid for
out of revenue and classed as repairs. This suggests that
the reserves are better than they might look ; also, that the
stated profits(since they are already probably providing for
some renewals) are more genuine than they would be if no
such depreciation charges were coming out of profit and
loss. On the other hand, gross revenue isn’t what it was.
With assets shown at £133,205 in the first half of 1902,
£12,678 was earned ; last half-year £142,263 of assets
earned only £12,455 gross revenue. The co. is not likely
to pay more than 10 per cent. ; practically it is limited
to that by its Act. (It can pay more, but the City Coun-
cil must share equally in the extra.) But if it can make
concessions and so extend its business, it might, by-and-
bye, be able to find a very profitable investment for the
£75,000 of its uncalled or unissued capital; and these con-
cessions, combined with electrical competition, probably
account for the reduced earnings shown.
* * * *
The Sydney Hydraulic and General En-
gineering Co.:—
Carried to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1902 .. £4400 15 per cent. = £2200 £2200 £2200
New Share Premiums .. - .. .. 579 2779
1903 .. 2264 10 „ „ 1500 764 3543
1904 .. 2129 10 „ „ 1500 629 4172
1905 .. 2296 10 „ ~ 1500 796 4968
1906.. 3226 15 „ ~ 2250 976 5944
The capital is £15,000 ; on this 5 per cent, was paid in
January, and 10 per cent, is payable now. Besides the
capital, £2206 of the reserves is in plant; the other £3739
is represented by sundry debtors, who have increased
pretty rapidly during the year. Part of the reserves is
solid ; but the other part is merely provision for wear
and tear, nothing apparently having been written off.
* * * *
Brisbane Gas Co.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. 10 p.c. = £7345 £20,673
Dec., 1902 .. £9,688 11£ ,» .. 8446 £1242 21 > 915
June, 1903 .. 9,054 11 „ „ 8085 969 22,884
Dec., 1903 .. 11,762 ll£ „ „ 8452 3310 26,194
June, 1904 .. 11,042 Ilf ~ „ 8452 - 2590 28,784
Dec., 1904 .. 11,634 Ilf „ ~ 8452 3182 31,966
June, 1905 .. 10,309 Ilf „ „ 8452 1857 33,823
£20,000 of Reserves transferred to Capital 13,823
Dec., 1905 .. 10,898 10 p.c. = 8400 2498 16,321
June, 1906 .. 10,768 10 „ „ 8400 2368 18,689
Twelve months ago £20,000 of reserves were transferred
to capital ; wherefore the dividend, represented as
10 per cent., is really £ll Bs. 6d. per cent, on the
paid capital. So the wind is tempered to the eye of
the shorn lamb the lamb in this case being the
man who buys the gas and provides the dividend —
even though the same old blast strikes the animal’s
pocket. Besides the reserves shown above there is an
item “Suspense account for dividend reserve, £5100”;
this is apparently the balance of the profit made on a
land transaction not yet completed. Depreciation
(amount unknown) is provided for out of revenue;
and, in addition, £378, which is about the same
as usual, was written off during the half-year
to provide for renewal of holders and retorts. At
June, 1903, after the sale of the land, the fixed invest-
ment (land, plant, etc.) was £149,000; it now amounts to
£153,978 ; and it looks as though a good deal more than
£4978 had been spent on extensions, new plant, etc.,
during the past three years. Whatever more (if any) has
been spent has been provided out of revenue, and serves
as something equal to a charge for wear and tear on the
undertaking. In any case, however, whether sufficient
has been provided to cover depreciation or not, the assets
have appreciated considerably in earning power ; in the
first half of 1903 the assets showed gross revenue at the
rate of £2llls. 6d. per cent, per annum ; now the gross
return is almost exactly 22 per cent.; and, so far as
shareholders are concerned, it doesn’t matter so very
much whether the improvement has come through
the hard writing down of assets or through a Labor-
governed Brisbane being now able to buy more gas—
it doesn’t matter, at least, provided the improve-
ment is permanent. The co. owes very little,
and is strengthening its financial position steadily.
Three years ago it had £31,373 of liquid assets in excess
of liabilities ; now it has £37,887. And, meantime, as
shown above, £4978 has also been put into plant, in addi-
tion to anything that may have been charged direct to
revenue. There are several ways in which a gas co. may
hide away its profits, and this payment for works out of
revenue is the easiest of them. There is hardly one co.
in Australia besides the Metropolitan (Melbourne) which
shows what it spends in that way; yet, unless those
figures are available, or can be estimated in some way,
the public has no means of telling whether it is paying a
fair price for its lighting or not.
* -V * *
Bendigo Gas Co. (Victoria): —
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £2925 12 p.c. =£2520 £450 £18,641
June, 1904.. 2461 12 „ „ 2520 164 18,418
Dec., 1904.. 3142 12 „ „ 2520 £622 19,040
June, 1905.. 2537 12 „ „ 2520 17 19,057
Dec., 1905.. 2710 12 „ „ 2520 200 19,047
June, 1906.. 2563 12 „ „ 2520 112 18,978
Of the reserves, £14,084 is “ accumulated profit invested
in assets, renewals of works, contingent fund, and wear
and tear account.” So far as it is invested in renewals of
works which had not previously been written down to
nothing, it is not a reserve at all. So far as it represents
wear and tear which has actually taken place, it is also
not a reserve. The position is not satisfactory. Twelve
months ago both this reserve fund and pla.nt (£47,210)
stood where they stand to-day. Nothing has be?n
charged directly to profit and loss to cover wear
and tear, and nothing has been charged indirectly
by increasing this so-called reserve fund. Moreover,
there has been no increase of undivided profit out of
which an appropriation might be made ; the balance is
£7B less than it was 12 months ago. Nor has any re-
venue been spent on new works, which would be equiva-
lent to a depreciation allowance. All that has been done
is to pay for a few repairs. For the past twelve months,
therefore, the 12 per cent, dividend has only been paid
by assuming that the plant is everlasting and that there
has been no wear and tear ; and, even after that assump-
tion, past profits had to be drawn upon to the extent of


2S6e Best Tobacco
the world can
produce. & /
6d,
per
ounce.
3 STRENQTHS-
A 1 Mild.
B 2 Medium.
C 3 Strong.
/
A*
O
4
/
2oz. Tins 1/*
4oz. Tins 2/-
Boz. Tins 3/9
Sold Loose only by
A. A. MARKS,
/37G George St.
310 George St.
28 Hunter St.
177 Oxford St.
SYDNEY.
£7B. That sort of thing cannot go on for long. The
amounts shown as written off have come £2OO off meters
and £ll2 off suspense account. The most satisfactory
feature is that the co. owes practically' nothing; liquid
assets can pay the current dividend and all liabilities,
and leave £5059 over.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900.. £3003 7J p-C. = £2781 £IS9 £33 £8,439
June, 1901.. 2972 74,, „ 2784 188 8,627
Dec., 1901.. 5010 S ~ ~ 2972 2038 10,665
June, 1902.. 4873 3 ~ ~ 2972 1901 12,566
Dec., 1902.. 5913 8 ~ ~ 2972 2941 15,507
June, 1903.. . 6048 10 ~ „ 3717 2331 17,838
Dec., 1903.. 6484 10 „ ~ 3720 2764 20,602
June, 1904.. 5748 10 „ ~3721 - 2027 22,629
Dec., 1904.. 5543 10 ~ „ 3722 250 1571 24,200
June, 1905.. 5606 10 „ ~ 3723 800 1083 25,283
Dec., 1905.. 4469 10 „ „ 3725 94 650 25,933
June, 1906.. 4398 10 „ ~ 3726 672 26,605
Times seem to be too good for this co. to make very big
profits ; that is to say, there is a great deal of money
about which the Freetrade crowd won’t allow the owners
to find profitable use for, and the competition to lend it
is bad for the Mont de Piete. Also it affects the .co.
in other ways. In June, 1903, the advances totalled
£87,243; they' have now shrunk to £82,448. In
the early half of 1903 the gross interest earnings were at
the rate of £23 7s. Cd. percent, per annum on the total of
the advances ; now, after allowing for interest earned by
fixed deposits, they 7 are about £2l 4s. 6d. per cent. There
are, however, risks in the business which the foregoing
table doesn’t suggest; there is the moth that eats and
the rust that tarnishes, wherefore, in 1899-1900,, £7778
had to be written off. Among the reserves at present is
a contingency 7 fund (£3102), which is a special provision
for such shrinkages in value ; and, as a reserve, this is
therefore open to suspicion. In consequence of the re-
duced demand for money', the co. has paid off most of its
own fixed deposits ; three years ago they stoodat £11,215,
now they 7 stand at £5026 ; and the bank debit of £B5O has
been changed to a credit of £6646., Meantime, working
expenses have moved up from £3875 to £4398. It is still
a highly profitable business, nevertheless, yielding £8 15s.
2d. per cent.,per annum: on capital and reserves ; but,
compared with the “hard times” of a few years back,
some of the gilt is off it.
* * * k
“C.H.S.”: This compilation may be of value
to Westralian investors :
Value of Ore per Short Ton (20001 b.).
Jan., June,
Mine. 1906. 1906. Rise. Fall.
s. d. s. d. s. d. s; d.
Oroya-Brown Hill . . 101 7 100 9 010
Great Boulder.. .. 78 7 64 4 14 3
Ivanhoe 52 1 50 0 2 1
G. Horseshoe .. .. 48 7 40 11 1 8
Kalgurli.. .. .. 62 2 62 1 0 1
Associated Northern.. 95 4 90 2 5 2
South Kalgurli .. 37 3 34 4 2,11
Associated .. .. 49 0 43 4 6 8
G.B. Perseverance .. 50 11 35 10 15 I
Lake View Consols .. 30 6 28 1 2 5
Hainault .. .. 30 0 29 2 0 10
Great Fingall .. .. 49 11 43 4 6 7
Sons of Gwalia .. 43 5 34 4 9. 1
Great Tower Hill .. 28 0 27 3 0 9
Cosmopolitan* .. 22 2 21 2 1 0
Bellevue * .. .. 35 9 32 9 3 0
North White Feather* 31 2 43 4 12 2
* Long tons (22401 b.)
Costs per Short Ton.
Rise in
Jan., June, Ton-
-1900. 1906. Rise. Fall. nage.
s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. Tons.
Orova-B. Hill 28 6 29 5 0 11 Nil
Gt. Boulder .. 29 4 2,045
Ivanhoe .. 25 8 23 7 - 2 1 Nil
Horseshoe .. 29 3 29 10 0,7 1,350
Kalgurli .. 26 0 23 6 2 6 1,500
Ass. Northern 28 2 25 3 2 11 Nil
S. Kalgurli . . 22 9 23 5 0 8 640
Associated ».. 41 4 30 11 10 5 870
L. V. Consols 26 8 25 1 1 7 510
Hainault .. 23 3 22 9 • 0 6 Nil
Gt. Fingall .. 21 0 22 "2 1 2 760
Sons of Gwalia 27 7 21 7 6 0 650
Gt. Tower Hill 19 6 21 6 2 0 740
Cosmopolitan* 20 7 20 6 0 1 400
Bellevue* 33 4 32 7 0 9 440
N.W. Feather* 34 6 35 2 0-8 Nil
* Long tons (22401 b.).
Victorian Butter Factories Co-operative
Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
Dividend. Bonus Written Deficit
(10 p.c.) to clients, off. (Prelim.
Aug., Profit. Exes.)
1900 .. £163
April, Reserves.
1901 .. £914 £149 602
1902 .. 1603 164 £lOO6 1035
1903 .. 2513 191 1612 1745
1904 .. 3072 201 2593 £2O 2003
1905 .. 2882 205 2483 20 2177
190 G .. 4278 212 1947 571 3725
This is very remarkable growth. The co. started in 1900
with a Board comprising a managing director in Mel-
bourne, a butter-man of Tungamah, another of Kongwak,
and an accountant of Benalla. At first it only' went in
for co-operative marketing, the other sort of butter-mar-
keting being then under dark suspicion. Presently more
butter factories joined in, and in 1903 30 per cent, of the
commission paid by them was returned as bonus. In 1904
the commission itself was reduced h.v 1 per cent.; and a
butter-box factory' and a freezing works were secured ata
cost of £18,363. During the past year these works showed a
profit of £1551, orB| per cent, on the capital cost. This
is put forward as “ net profit; ” hut as the works are in
the balance-sheet at cost, it allows nothing for deprecia-
tion, and that is a big' item in such works—freezing works
especially 7. It isn’t merely (hat the thing wears out ;it
becomes obsolete, and has to be scrapped or one’s com-
petitor gets the business. The “ net profit” isn’t there-
fore what it looks. With the purchase of these works and
the rapid extension of business, debts have grown very
fast. In 1903 they amounted to £3445, and there was a
hank credit against that of £1957. Now they 7 amount to
£33.280, and there is no credit balance at all. There
are £41,284 of assets, most of them very perish-
able, many of them apparently involving very 7 con-
siderable risks (apart from foreign bills, “ sundry debtors”
amount to £16,483) ; and of that £41,284, the co.
..owns only £5845. It has to stand the risk of things
going wrong, not only with its own money, hut with six
times as much of the public’s money. Under these cir-
cumstances, a rapid accumulation of reserves is most
desirable ; the 10 per cent. div. meantime ought to be
cut down and something less extravagant in the way of
bonuses should be declared. If it doesn’t do these things,
the co. stands a very serious chance of presently finding
itself tied in a hard financial knot, which will mean sacri-
fice. And there are always plenty of people waiting to
help at the sacrifice of co-operative enterprises.
* * * *
Though it has no bright prospects, Boulder
Main Reef (W.A.) is not dead yet. Co. has £12,000 in
cash and calls to go on with, and it is proposed to expend
£6OOO in renovating the plant, and the other £6OOO in
further testing the property. According to the new mana-
ger, Wauchope, there are 20,000 tons of Bdwt. ore in sight,
and it is expected that this will more than pay expenses
when the milling plant is overhauled. Other low-grade
ore will probably be found in the upper levels—stuff that
was passed over in the early days. The tailings' were sold
last August for £6OOO ; they proved worthless, and were
abandoned. But the sale gave new hope to the eo.
* ** * *
That calling-up of more capital in Hannan’s
Star (W.A.) doesn’t seem any better the more it is looked
into. The co., which has been in existence since 1895 and
lias never returned its shareholders a farthing, was
reconstructed in August last, when a 2s. assessment was
'made on the 210,165 shares issued ; and it was then said
that there were £3500 liquid assets in hand taken over
from the old co. As very little work has been done since,
it is absolutely impossible that the £24,500 working capi-
tal then provided could have been dissipated; and the
two calls of Is. each (due July 31 and August 31) look
very much as if they were made with the object of
squeezing out weak holders.
* * • *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, has, after spending
a lot of money, got on to a pay shoot 70ft. south at the
300 ft. level. The ore ranges from a few inches up to 2ft.
wide ; values vary from 7£dwt. to 50z., and average
32dwt. Owing to this development the ground to the
south has been re-pegged, and a good deal of activity is
being displayed. There is practically no pay mine from
this point to the Hainault, but this stretch of country
has been badly prospected, and may yet produce much
gold if capital is forthcoming to give it a thorough test.
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), suspends
development work till the air-compressor plant is en-
larged. Yet, though this helps the finances, the long
talked-of div. still refuses to arrive, and it is a marvel
that the mine maintains its share value of £80,(100. On
February 1 ore reserves were reckoned as 9500 tons
blocked out, since when 7000 tons have been treated, and
the balance remaining above the 400 ft. level is very small.
Underfoot, below the fourth level, about 4000 tons are
guessed to exist. At this level, however, the gold shoot
is very flat, and dips to the north, and is being followed
by an inclined winze. An air winch is to be installed to
haul the ore up this winze, so this will mean heavy
working costs. Under the circumstances, the outlook of
the co. is very dreary.
» • * *
East Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), has hired the
Creme d’ Or mill on the adjoining lease, and started
crushing. Very gaudy reports are still published about
this very doubtful property. In a winze below the second
level the reef was reported to be sft. wide and worth
22dwt. At 413 ft. the shaft cut a reef “3ft. wide and
worth oldwt.” At the 500 ft. level values up to £27
a ton were recorded. In spite of all these fancy reports
the ss. shares continue to he quoted at 3s. 9d. or there-
abouts, and local residents still don’t rush them. The
hiring of the battery ought to soon set many doubts at
rest. • With a battery available, the co. surely won’t keep
£27 stone longer underground than is absolutely neces-
sary.
Cosmo Newbury Hills (W.A.), which Carr
Boyd has beep booming for months, has, been visited t by
Oarr Bovd, prospector,Cunningham and Gapt. Wearne on
behalf of a Kalgoorlie syndicate. The report is “ No good.”
The country is intersected by numerous leaders, some
of which run to ounces in patches, but they are too small
to be any use to a co. The syndicate, which consisted of
10 shares of £lO each, has been dissolved, as Cunning-
ham and Wearne were quite satisfied that prospects did
not warrant any expenditure of capital. A fresh syndi-
cate has now been formed to inspect another of Carr
Boyd’s fields, and Captain Wearne is to again go out.
The Narlarla Hills (W.A.) bubble has quite
burst. The £lO shares were dealt in up to £74, so some-
body, no doubt in Adelaide, must have scored con-
siderably. The proposal of the Adelaide syndicate
responsible for this wild cat, as well as for Grant’s Nor’-
West, to sink and test the alleged lodes • is probably a
piece of bluff. There is practically'nothing to test, and
the find, such as it was, is by no means new.
Collie Proprietary coal (W. A.), taken over from
the Zeb. Lane crowd in February last by electrician R. C.
Young, has now a certificated manager—Leitch, the man
who lost an arm in the Stanford Merythyr (N.S.W.) ex-
plosion ; and the concern will proceed to put up another
fight, under more favorable conditions than it has suffered
from lately'.
Bananaland badly wants a provision in its new
Mining Bill to permit mining on private property ; hut
it is feared Minister Blair’s measure will not give it. Not
only are large areas, supposed to be rich in minerals, held
as freehold, but the old survey marks have disappeared in
many places, while in others they' are erroneous, so that
the prospector is sometimes fired out by an irate owner—
who may be only a sham owner, despite his obliterating
fury—after he has opened up a show. This snag has been
struck against at Cloncurry; • so the Government has
arranged for a new survey there. But a new survey'
won’t get rid of the unworked freehold curse.
* * * *
Present position, as far as the Stock Exchange
is concerned, of most Queensland copper propositions is
as interesting to the jobber as it is dangerous to the
public. From O.K. in the north right through the State
to Mt. Morgan, Peak Downs, Glassford Creek, Mt. Hector,
and Mt. Cannindah, the hulk of the shares in every'
instance are in few hands. The few, up till lately, have
been sitting tight, and this position, in the hands of a
good operator and a willing public, ; means disaster
to the public. The willing public is now coming
in. Brisbane, usually morose, takes a hand, prin-
cipally in Central Queensland. Sydney' is likewise
putting some money into the same parts. Mel-
bourne is swallowing Cloncurry' almost holus-bolus.
One recent float was in 04,000 shares of 10s. each ; 30,000
paids went to vendors, 12,000 to contributors on the
latter paying ss. per share on 12,000 other shares, and
10,000 are in reserve. The prospectus said : “ The whole
of the contributing shares have been applied for previous
to the publication and issue of this prospectus, which is
published for public information only, and no person is
invjted to subscribe.” But the chances are that the
public will want to come into the co. that it wasn’t in-
vited to enter, the shares won’t be available, prices will
be forced up (and the public won’t see why'), and then no
doubt the vendors will be induced to part with a few of
their 30,000.
* * * *
The new co. which owns Peak Downs (Q.) has
started unwatering, and is hoping to find some high-
grade precipitate. Also, it is hoping that it will meet ore
straight away when it has the working's dry. Further,
it is lipping that copper will keep up until the blast
furnace is going.' So it is going ahead building its blast
furnace, though what it is going to put through the blast
furnace is not known, except it be the poor ore .already
at the surface; and it is doubtful Whether that will pay' to
smelt on its own. Still, with nothing done, Peak Downs
shares are forced tp £l.; It is .absurd. There is trouble
in store for someone ; for if the opinion of the man who
last saw the peak Downs workings may be relied upon, it
will take more money than ‘the present co.'has to effec-
tively locate the ore body 7, without opening it up and
equipping the property with plant. . That opinion may
be right or wrong ; The Bulletin merely says that
people who buy shares at present figures are, upon the
data available, taking ludicrous risks.
* * * *
An old copper miner sends this :—“ Peak Downs
copper mine is on the contact of the schist and granite
and, unfortunately, the underlay seems to be in the
direction of the hard granite, judging by' the small
amount of development that has been done. Previous
managers seem to have seen what that meant, and tried
to locate another shoot of ore longitudinally by driving
along the footwall. The ore body became yellow sul-
phides, somewhat irregular and narrow, below 180 ft. It
did not pay to handle this in the early days, but the rich
carbonates and oxides in the shallow ground paid hand-
somely'. Some of the copper was doubtless left in the old
furnace bottoms and slag dump ; it would he curious if
such were not the case, for there is always more or less
copper in these products. I remember that a bottle of
amalgam was found on a heap of old battery tailings near
the copper mine (for it is surrounded by old alluvial
workings and quartz reefs), but the mysterious ‘ assays
that have yet to come for precious metals ’ out of old
tumble-down furnace bottoms and slag dumps ( vide
official report) is too much for my digestion.”
* * * *
By way of counterblast, this comes from G. A.
Collin, of Brisbane, who had much to do with giving the
old mine another trial: —“Bulletin of July 19 harps
again on the effect of a probable slump in the copper
market. As the co. has a fine coal property a few miles
off, and actually gets coal delivered at 11s. per ton, and
pays for freight to Rockhampton only 17s. per ton for all
goods, it is evident the mine can be worked as cheaply as
any, and has less to fear a slump in the copper market
than most. Mr. Coates, the manager, writes in his last
report that bailing operations are in full swing, and
water is shifted at the rate of 24,000 gallons per hour. So
if ‘mournful Brisbane ’ arrives too late it won’t he Bris-
bane’s fault. As for the lode, Rand, Government geolo-
gist, stated in his report to Government in 1599 that it is
a true fissure lode ; and at the deepest level (240 ft.) it
showed a width of Bft. to 12ft., assaying from 6 to 12 per
cent., and going strong under foot ; and that is good
enough for most uersons.”
* * * *
“M.C.” : Mt. Morgan (Q.) reckons on treating
10,000 tons of copper ore per month, and shareholders
are beginning to ask what extra divs. they are likely' to
get. The copper development is discounted by the fall-
ing off in the grade of oxidised ore, by the building of
new plant, and repayment of £75,000 of debt, and the
creation of a necessary' reserve. The dividend lately paid
left little to spare, otherwise co. would not have had to
borrow. If the yearly output of copper is calculated on
a 3 per cent, basis from 120,000 tons of ore, it would
amount to 3600 tons, worth at £6O per ton £216,000,
enough to pay 3s. per annum in dividends and leave
£66,000 to cover depreciation and refining charges, which
are heavy items. Gold contents per ton of copper are
exceedingly high, and it is thought the gold value of
nearly £5O, if it can be maintained, will cover mining,
smelting and converting charges. Future depends upon
whether value of gold and copper extraction can be
maintained, and on the value of that oxidised ore which
has stood to the mine for so many years. A long future
seems assured ; but increased dividends will have to be
waited for, and it is easy to be too sanguine as to the
amount of ultimate increase. A decent reserve fund
and the payment of debts should absorb a year’s profit
out of copper.
Mt. Molloy (N.Q.) is a compact copper-mine, in
a hollow among the hills. Till more development work
is done no one can say whether the show will last. No.
4 level is, however, looking well, with about 6ft. of good
ore. Mine has been employing over 100 men. As usual,
there’s a big lump of shares; so each miner has to pro-
vide profit for over 1000 shares !
* # « *
The Etheridge (N.Q.) Railway Bill, which is
to validate the agreement entered into by the Queensland
Railways Commissioner, is being pushed along by Kid-
ston’s Government. First reading went through last
week. Bill gives the constructing co.—the Etheridge
Railway and Mines, Ltd. —the power, with the consent of
the Governor-in-Oouncii, to assign or transfer all
or any of its rights and powers, and . makes
provision for keeping the y'ellow laborer off
the job ; also for payment of current rates of
wages. Although the money for construction has
not loomed up yet, there are indications that with
the passing- of the validating Act, it will be available.
Certainly those wh.o have been left to nurse the Chfilagoe
infant deserve a chance to make a recovery, and it would
be wretchedly bad luck if the Etheridge, on which they
now rely, turned out to be a twin youngster.
* . * » *
After all,, it has fallen to the Queensland
Government itself to take out of the Dawson leases the
200 tons of coal required for the Admiralty test. Premier
Kidstoh lias earned the disfavor of about half-a-dozen
Rockhampton shareholders in the Dawson Co. for what
they term “confiscating their property.”, For two or
three years the co. has been monkeying with the ground,
and on .two occasions Kidston warned them that
unless they got to work things would hap-
pen. Co. even allowed its licenses to run out,
and the alleged act of confiscation was the Government’s
refusal to grant the co. a lease of 7000 acres of the Daw-
son Valley. If that modest request were granted, this
was promised;—(A co. in 25,000 £1 shares would be
formed, 4000 shares to go to the Dawson Co., 4000 to the
Dunstan Co., 8000 to the public, 4000 to the under-
writer (who in this case was G. C. Willcocks), 5000
reserved. What Kidston wanted was 200 tons of
coal, not a monopolistic company ; and he decided
that the Government should sail in and get it, for too
much time and State money has already been spent in
vainly encouraging the Dawson crowd to do something
practical. Rankin, the managing director of the Queens-
land Collieries, has been appointed to carry out the
work ; and there appears no reason why it should not he
carried out effectively, and promptly.
* * * *
Among the speculators who have put their
money into the nest of resurrected shows south of the
main Broken Hill line of lode there seem to be some who
implicitly believe in the miraculous. They apparently
expect .a lode to be cut that will be twin-sister, to the
bonanza worked by the B.H. Prop. Nothing has yet been
met to justify su,ch faith. In all the shows that have
sprung up on the broad White Leads plain, there is not a
single indication of anything greater than the ordinary
small vein long familiar to those' connected with “out-
side shows.” The Rising Sun hen has laid the latest egg,,
and is cackling tremendously'. But it all boils down to
some veins of galena, which were frequently met for the
whole length of the western crosscut; and at 30ft. from
the shaft they happened to bunch and be of better quality.
The lode, what there may he of it, will be found further
west.
* » * *
The Junction, Broken Hill, is putting down its
main shaft (Browne’s) another 200 ft..—and waiting for
something to turn up. One of the things waited for is
the repair of the Junction North shaft, a work not-yet even
begun. The completion of this work will herald the un-
watering: of the lower level of the Junction North, and
incidentally the draining of the winze below the Junc-
tion’s 775 ft. level, which will allow the Junction to get
at a rich shoot of ore, cut just before the outbreak of the
fire. Meantime, if the directors wake up sufficiently,
some of the ancient machinery on the. mine iqay be over-
hauled/arid a condenser put in. The overhauling and
also the condenser are badly needed.
The De Bavay zinc process has had a good trial
run at the B.H. North mine. The concentrate assayed 45£
percent, zine, but it was obtained from one unit of the
plant only (seven tables), and the question of how the
process is going to act on a large scale has yet to be
answered. The material for treatment over the De
Bavay tables requires to be prepared as carefully as
baby’s food, which means high working expenses. The
plant has been idle since the experimental run. But
Melbourne has been very busy gambling in the Process
shares.
The tin shows about Euriowie and Waukeroo
(far west N.S.W.) ought to get a move on now if ever.
A tin expert from Tasmania (R. Purdue, manager of
Federation and Dalrvmpie) has made an inspection, and
pronounced the fields good. The tin. outcrops, which
have hitherto been regarded with a doubtful eye as mere
surface veins and pockets, are to make into one big lode
at depth ; and the expert has talked learnedly to that
effect, as experts did 16 years ago 1 o J. S. Reid and others,
and induced them to put in some tens of thousands,
which they dropped. There have been spasmodic efforts
to work the deposits since then ; hut the micaceous
character of the gangue has stood in the way of a satis-
factory recovery. A good deal of alluvial tin has lately
been found near Yanco Glen, on the west side of the
Tarrawingee railway line.
* * * *
The Commissioners of Savings Bank, Mel-
bourne, announce another issue of Government guaran
teed debentures of £lOO,OOO on behalf of the Yic. Credit
Foneier, tenders to be sent in by noon on Tuesday, 28th
August, 1906. The rate of interest is 3£ per cent., and
the minimum price £9B per £lOO. As the debentures
have a currency of nearly eleven and a quarter years, the
actual net return to the investor at that price will be
about £3 14s. sd. per cent. net. The debentures will be
for £lOO and £5OO each, as tenderers mav desire ; a
deposit of ten per cent, is required on 28th August, and
the balance may' he paid at any time up to 28th February
next; interest for the period ending 31st October will be
paid when the debentures are issued. Brokerage of ten
shillings per cent, will be allowed to members of recog-
nised Stock Exchanges. Tender forms ms ybe obtained
at any Savings Bank.
Mount Boppy Blocks (N.S.W.), lately visited
by the Sydney directors and G. H. iSlakemore, wisely
decided to abandon all work in present shaft and sink a
new one to water level to catch the underlay on a huge
gossan lode. Lode in old shaft carries small values in
gold, silver, and lead ; but until something more than
80ft. is touched (the present depth of the shaft) there will
not be enough to build a prediction upon.
* * * *
“Thurla”: On July 30 the miners at the
Conrad Stannite mines, Howell (N.S.W.), struck against
the introduction of the Gympie or single-hand system of
working. Manager Parker said both systems, double and
single hand, would be used ; but the miners suspected
that it was the thin end of the wedge, and came out—loo
of them, counting in truckers and timber men. Some of
the smelters and other surface hands also turned out.
The mill hands decided not to quit work ; still individuals
have been falling out, and, anyhow, the mill can’t
keep going without? the mine. The objection miners have
to the single-hand system in connection with the Conrad
is that it would he very dangerous to work alone in the
face, owing to the treacherous nature of the walls and the
lode. They allege that the stope south of the plat at 250
feet, where it was proposed to introduce the system, is
not safe for such work, as in about 800 ft. of sloping
there are only two man-ways, and often the men cannot
use these, but have to go by the passes that may be
empty. The Inspector of Mines has been inspecting the
mine ; and something may come of that.
* * * *
Another factor in reducing the mining costs,
especially in large mines, is the general use of “Little
Wonder” Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill mines use them extensively. The
managers favor these drills for their great strength and
simplicity having only one working part; also for
economy in air consumption as they require only about
25ft. free air per minute. Miners prefer them, as work is
made much easier; for tributors, “Wonder” drills are
the means of bringing in larger returns. Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, have de-
scriptive catalogues for those interested, and attention
is drawn to an exceedingly simple and ingenious patent
water attachment for allaying dust.*
* » « *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is con-
siderably cheaper than any other. It Will scour out and
should certainly be used by those who hope to get a good
price for their wool. E. Rich and Co., Sydney and
Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
* * * *■
The New,Havillah Gold Mining Company has
just installed a high lift pump to make all necessary' pro-
vision against any increase in the' volume of water now
that they are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This
installation is in addition to the large three’ throw pump
which has given such high efficiency' and, such constant
service since its inception. The new pdmp is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and. is capable of
lifting 2,010,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The -mechanical efficiency' of the
pump is guaranteed at 71'5 percent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 li.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this coil-
tract. This Company lias had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each with unqualified success.* [a]
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
The Review (London), of 28tli July, 1905, in
commenting on the last annual report of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, said :—“ In their
last report the directors of the Colonial Mutual state that
no fewer than 3504 policies were issued during the year
1904 for sums amounting in the aggregate to close upon
£900,000. This we consider to be a very good showing.”*
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 00 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silburberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * ' *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereasrh-st., 74, Sydney, and
■l7 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
- perfect' coating manufactured from ' asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any' sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discretion of cast or wropght iron work.*
A- * * *
• ■■■ Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is ttieir Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.* _ ...
*■* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. • Agents every-
where.*
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters-and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
* * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bo wry', member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
*.* * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us h r
Inventors’ Guide.*


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
OOSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J URK SMITH, Manager,
Castlerea£h-st. Sydney.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 111 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
David >Storer (Si Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
CEL BLUE.
Kept by ...
ALL MERCHANTS
CSb STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING or
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Aboriginalities.
“ Walfre ” sends a faint buzz from the far
interior of N.S.W. :
There is a peculiar state of affairs out West just now.
Although there has been a very fair amount of cold
weather this winter there are still a noticeable number
of blowflies about. None of the oldest inhabitants (there
are 12 oldest inhabitants here, and each one is older than
the others) can remember being troubled by flies after
heavy frosts. The most feasible explanation is that,
owing to the number of poisoned rabbits lying around,
flies have increased far beyond the average. ' It is pretty
safe to predict that next summer will be about the worst
on record, and that the West will be almost a solid ram-
part of fly' and buzz-z-z-z-z-z.
THE MAN-EATER.
A proposal has been made to deal with the rabbits by
means of meat-eating ants imported from South Africa.—
Daily Paper.
BILL (suddenly attacked by rabbit-destroyer):
“Ooo, bli'me! A tiger hunt! I reckon MY
jig's darnced! ”
AT THE FOOTBALL MEETING.
COPPER : "'Ullo, what's the trouble!" BATTERED ONE: “Spoke outer me turn."
“ Brisbane ” : “ Elmore ” need not go any
further than Australia for an answer to his ques-
tion as to musical birds of prey. The magpie
fills the bill. During the late drought I have
often seen these birds picking out the eyes of
sheep that were still alive but too weak to stand.
It was also common to see two or three crows and
a couple of magpies feasting off a newly-deceased
carcase. And a magpie’s carol is song.
“ Whana ” : The Maoris have peculiar
methods of determining distances, not one in a
hundred being
able to tell you
the mileage from
his pah to the
next pah or town-
ship. Rode from
Napier to Wairoa
once. Was ap-
proaching a pah
and met an old
Maori. Asked
him, “How far
the next place ? ”
“ How far Nu-
haka'! ” said he,
and stood looking
along i..u road
fully two minutes.
Finally he sat
down. “ How far
Nuhaka,” he re-
peated as soon as
he was quite com-
fortable. “I think
good horse fifteen
miles; bad horse
—aw —long time.”
Seeing a younger
native a few yards
away, I put the
same question.
He looked my
horse up and
down, under and
over, for a second or so and then answered, “I
think two hour that horse.” I did the journey just
under two hours, and found the distance was
about 16 miles. The Maori has a fixed belief that
a place may be further off with one horse than
with another.
* * * *
Geraldton, in Queensland, claims that it
can easily beat the rest of Australia in wetness.
In 1902, when pretty well all the continent was
wilting, it had 191 inches, and the year before
that it had 202 inches —17ft. all but a couple of
inches; and they probably fell, but slopped over
when the gauge was more tired than usual. From
January to March the Geraldton people can
reckon upon having 4yds. of rain ; when there is
only 3yds. it is a drought, and a row awaits the
local joss, who, by the way, is the most respect-
able-looking joss in Queensland. There are never
more than 29 wet days in February ; but the fall
averages just under an inch and a half whether it
is a wet day or not. Yet they don’t, as a rule,
have to swim around Geraldton; half-an-hour
after the rain has stopped the surface is reason-
ably dry, which probably accounts for the fact
that if it doesn’t rain for three weeks there is
grief among the bananas (Geraldton is the place
where the bananas come from), while if it doesn’t
rain for six weeks there is positive disaster.
* * * *
Householders will find that for universal
use Little’s Phenyle Disinfectants are unsurpassed.
The Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide, it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and is one of the
best washes for all domestic animals. Sold by all
chemists, grocers, storekeepers, throughout Aus-
tralia.*
“ Fraulein ” : Amusing that anyone should
think it odd to catch snakes in rabbi t-traps.
That’s the way we mostly kill them here. Towards
the end of the summer, when water is scarce, tiger
snakes get about the house, living for days be-
neath the floors. When one has been seen a few
times going under the house, a saucer of milk and
a rabbit trap are set for his snakeship. The trap
is set with the opening of the jaws along, not
across, the path of the snake. Result —a snake
securely caught within twenty-four hours. Wells
here are good snake-traps. After a sultry night,
two or three are down most of the wells in the
district. Once down, they can’t get up, though
they live for days in the water, and can live for
half a day at least under water. I’ve kept one
under myself—l mean I’ve kept one under the
water. (Cruel woman !)
The Council-General of New Caledonia has,
after a heated discussion, decided that lepers shall
not be isolated. The voting was very close —eight
against isolation, seven for. The Governor, to his
credit, voted with the minority. It seems
almost incredible that such a law needed any
discussion whatever, but strange things
happen in Fresh Caledonia. The fact
is there are lepers amongst the inhabi- -
tants of Noumea, but nobody seems to
worry about them. Leprosy was
brought into New Caledonia, some
20 years ago, by a Chinaman, and
since then the disease has spread
like wildfire. There must be at
least suo white and 2000 kanaka
lepers to-day. The Government
has done its foolish best to give
the pest a fair chance. Some
years back, it formed a leper-
station on Belep Island, the
Belep natives being removed to
the mainland. The expense
proving too great, the lepers
were taken off the island and
sent back to their various
tribes on the mainland, and
the Belep “boys” went home
again to their tainted isle.
As a result, the mainland boys
are spreading the disease among
their people, and the Belep boys
are catching it fast. It seems probable that,
unless some drastic measures are adopted,
New‘Caledonia will, in another 20 years, become
one vast lazarette. The tainted Kanaka mixes
with his friends, eats with them and sleeps with
them. The friends don’t object, so why should
the leper object ?
“ Werrimee ” : Re wild passion-fruit.
“Ossian” (B. 26/7/’O6) says: “Wild passion-
fruit are plentiful on the northern rivers of
N.S.W. In appearance they greatly resemble
the ordinary fruit; the only difference is that the
leaves are a shade thinner and the fruit deadly
poisonous.” I lived five years alongside a passion-
fruit scrub (Woram, Richmond River), and I have
bought much of the seedy fruit in Sydney (which,
I presume, is the tame variety), and if there is
any difference between the two, I have not been
able to discover it. Wild passion-fruit—the very
wildest sort you can find—are not only eaten off
the vine, but people on the Richmond, Clarence
and Tweed Rivers make preserves, tarts and pies
with them ; and hawkers, plying up and down
the Richmond in boats, gather cases of them every
trip for sale in Coraki, Woodburn and Ballina.
Other excellent fruits plentiful on those rivers are
gooseberries (a rich, yellow fruit, enclosed in a
white husk when ripe), blackberries (a wild cur-
rant), raspberries, tomatoes, figs, cherries (which
formerly used to hang over the water in blood-red
masses, and fall in showers on the steamers’
decks), lillipillies, lemons, limes (two varieties),
yams (which fruit is a potato), quondongs, gee-
bungs, strawberries, and the tamarind—a splendid
nut. Sarsaparilla vines (as sold in Paddy’s Mar-
ket) are also plentiful on the Richmond ; and one
frequently comes upon dense clumps of peach
trees (gone wild), and acres of pie-melons, not to
mention numerous lien-fruit, deposited by the
descendants of fowl that deserted the barnyard
for the jungle. These fowl are quite expert on the
wing, and often lay in hollow trees.
* * * *
N.S.W. Government Botanist Maiden
makes clear some points about which “Abo.”
contributors are bushed :
“ Ossian,” on gooseberries and raspberries, isn’t quite
clear. The fruit to which he refers is the Cape goose-
berry (know to botanists as Physalis). It came to us
from South America, via Cape Colony. There are a
number of Physalises in the United States, where they
call them ground cherries. Our Cape gooseberry is a
sub-tropical plant, flourishing in our warmer coast
brushes. The common gooseberry of northern Europe
will only flourish in elevated situations in N.S. Wales,being
a cold-loving plant. If it is going to be elbowed out of its
ancient name of gooseberry by people who are too lazy to
call the other fruit Cape gooseberry, then it will have
to fall back upon its slang name of goosegog.
The reason why Cape gooseberries spring up everywhere
after a clearing, as referred to by “ Ossian ” and “ Gip,”
is not easy to explain. Certain birds eat the fruit
greedily and void the seeds, which are evidently capable
of lying dormant for a long time, years perhaps, till the
opening out of the brush affords the necessary foothold
and light for the Cape gooseberry to germinate and
spread.
As to native raspberries. “Ossian,” in speaking of
their exuberance on the North Coast, evidently refers to
the Australian species of raspberry. They are true rasp-
berries, but of different species from the common rasp-
berry of Northern Europe, which only flourishes in cold
situations. Our native species of raspberry ( Rubus ), of
which we have four, have engaged the attention of fruit-
growers, with a view to their improvement, but so far
without practical results. One of them (Rubus Muorei)
is, in my view, the worst “ lawyer ” of the coast districts.
Re wild passion-fruit, which “ Ossian ” speaks of as
“ deadly poisonous.” Here we again haveen introduced
passion-fruit and native passion-fruit. The common
passion-fruit that one sees in the shops (Pasxiflora
edulis) is not a native, but has spread enormously in the
warmer coast districts. We have in Australia about half-
a-dozen native species of Passijlora, some of them with
beautiful flowers. Their fruit is very poor eating, even
when fully ripe, but their poisonous nature only exists in
the imagination.
IN BEG-AND-BORROW LAND.
“ Please, Mr. Smith, can per lend father the
double-furrer plough, and a bag of seed wheat,
and the grey mare; and can Jim help us ter
muster? And father sez can per spare Mrs.
Smith till mother comes ’ome from Perth?”
SLAVE O’ THE SHOVEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first the saffron cockfight flashes up the clouded
east,
And mirroring the dawn, the windy sky is golden-
fleeced ;
When, chirking down the gully at the bend of Marble
Creek,
The grey hawks gather where, red-splashed, the dressing
gallows reek ;
When the bower-birds wake up skittish in the holly-grove
behind, »
I also wake and potter out to face my daily grind :
And, as 1 slide into my boots and reach the raw meat
down,
(), how I wish I hadn’t left my' clerking job in town !
The loud, melodious chanting of the wind among the
gums
Makes melancholy music in my soul, when evening comes,
For then it is I wander back and lounge into the scrub,
To drag my bit o’ timber in and cook my bit o’ grub -
For then I find my lonely fork and make my lonely tea,
And think how sad this fife is for a clever chap like me ;
O, when I haul the red steak down and pound it once
again,
I’d give one-half my life to swap my shovel for a pen.
When, in the sweltering pub. at night, the rowdies plunge
and shout,
When, tumbling through the angry air, the bottles
fly about,
When dusty heads bump, cursing, in the road outside
the door,
And, drunken-deaf, the “dead-house” bunch lies tangled
on the floor,
When the dice-box bangs upon the bar, and the drinks
flow long and brown,
O, then I want to go back south to see my girl in town ;
O, then, when battling in the crowd, I hear the blue-rum
speak, .
1 want to be a clerk again at twenty bob a week.
But when, week-ends, I breast the rise to reach the office
shack,
Where Bullface, throned upon a box of fraeteur, hands
me back
My honest sweat in yellow gold, I look at him and smile
To see his fretful chiv., and guess I’ll chance the toil
awhile ;
O, then I clash the tawny coins within my horny hand,
And bless the kindly ways iof this, my good old native
land ;
Sure, then I love my lot, and as I swing full-chested down
The hill—O, I don’t wish I were a clerk again in town !
vie.
FRANK HENTY.


df
By Appointment to
H.M. The King and H.R.H. The Prince of Walea.
d
v SALT °
A pinch ot Salt gives flavour, but a pinch of CEREBOS Salt gives Strength
and Health as well, because it contains the bran phosphates which make
the difference between White Bread and Whole Meal Bread.
A gents—Harrison Attwood, Sydney.
FINGERS——-
BY THOUSANDS
Have been graced by our Rings, or perhaps it were
better to say thousands of our Rings are graced by
I charming fingers.
We sell so many because we are known for
The most exquisite of Rings.
The latest designs in Rings.
The extreme finish of our Rings.
The lowness of price of our Rings.
We have been making Rings for many years.
Our prices are as low as London prices.
2 Choice Sapphires, I
Tourmaline, with Small
Olivines, £lO 10s.
4 Pearls and 1
Australian Sapphire,
£4 4s.
Diamond Half-Hoop
Ring, £5 ss.
A Marvel ok Value.
2 Rabies & 1 Diamond
or 2 Sapphires and 1
Diamond, 18ct., 635.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St,
“Agricola”: Magpies are on the war-
path early this year, and are already embellishing
the vocabulary of the out-backer. Last week 1
was biking near Wagga, and, about a quarter of a
mile ahead, saw a wildly gyrating figure waving
a stick round his head in large capital S’s. 1
concluded that his business was snakes, and
bustled along to be in at the death. He turned
out to be a runaway German sailor on his way to the
shearing sheds. He was much nettled, and spat
out frightful German adjectives at an old man
magpie, who wiped his beak contemptuously on
an overhead limb, and aimed some visible scorn
at the German’s cap. The foreigner inquired
the name of the fearsome bird, and opined, “He
von tain sheeky bird alretty, by tarn.” He shook
his fist at old man Mag, and hurled Government
metal at him with the prodigality of an unna-
turalised foreigner. Then his patriotism came
out through all his woes : “Ach, Himmel! Soosh
sheeky birds ve not in Shermany have godt,
by tarn!” I left him to the company of
the “sheeky” bird, and, as I topped the rise,
looked back to mark the imported one’s progress.
Just as he lifted his bluey on his back, Mag
swooped at him and knocked his cap off.. In
terror he stamped both feet on the ground like a
startled buck rabbit, and made more S’s with
his stick, while old man Mag sailed off home to
make the missus and kids laugh with the story.
The squarehead didn’t mount his swag again, but
dragged it after him with one hand, and kept his
weather eye fixed on the bird till he got out of
range. It was the triumph of the native-born
over the imported article.
AT THE TWOPENNY FEED.
DINER: “ Hey I Look ’ ere, this ’ere plate's orl
greasy. ”
WAITER: “ Veil, dot's only to keep hcem from
rusting.”
The vagaries of the Australian climate were
strikingly illustrated on July 26 when the ther-
mometer registered 25 degrees and under at places
like Bourke, Hay, White Cliffs, Hillston and
Walgett. At Coonabarabran the temperature got
down to 16, equal to 16 degrees of frost. A sum-
mer temperature of 118 has been registered at
Coonabarabran, a cheerful variation of 100 degrees.
SCIENTIFIC CHARITY.
PHILANTHROPIST OF THE FUTURE : “My poor fellow, in this tabloid is concentrated a well-
cooked meal of five courses — soup, fish, entree, joint, dessert. Let it dissolve slowly on
the tongue, and you will”
MENDICANT: “ But, excuse me, Mister, does the tabloid also contain the various mines appro-
priate to each course! ”
“D.H.R.”: I am with “Elmore” (B.
12/7/’O6) all the way about protecting bees with a
close season. The way that thb hives are
robbed in the early summer months, by
idiots who don’t get enough to repay them
for labor done, is ridiculous j and the
way that others are destroyed in mid-
winter deserves the attention of the
Animals’ Comfort Society, or some-
thing. If the hives were looted,
as “Elmore” suggests, between
September and January, the
looters would find a good deal of
honey, while there would remain
ample time for the insect which
“improves each shining hour”
to lay in a winter’G supply. Of
course, the months flamed would
not suit all parts of the Common-
wealth, but they could be varied
in different parts. The native bee
has considerably decreased in
numbers in the otiter-back, and
there can be no doubt that the
decrease is due to' this wholesale
and indiscriminate plundering of
his commissariat waggons.
■* * *
“ J.S.” : Can you give me the
address of some place in Australia
that hasn’t a great future before it? I
don’t want places with futures behind
them or on top of them—l just want one without
a future at all. Recently a lot of Governors and
Ministers and M’s.P. and others have been tour-
ing this continent, and after devouring the fatted
turkey and drinking the fizzy wine they have
always told the local people that the place had a
wonderful future before it. The “wonderful
future” mostly depended on the local “vast
resources.” Surely there ought to be one place in
Australia where a man can be at peace—where
the rolling of the wheels of the stupendous future
won’t disturb his sleep, where there are no “ great
natural resources,” where there are no “pro-
spects,” no huge, bloated “ destiny ’’—nothing
but rest!
* * * *
“ Uckle ” : Be “ A.P.R.” (B. 5/7/’O6) and
his comments on the lack of firewood for rabbiters,
and the annoyance occasioned thereby. Whole
towns are likewise affected in the West, where
squatters monopolise the ground on all sides. The
squatter burns every stick of wood on his run, con-
sidering it as rabbit harbor. Instead of going but
a few yards for firewood now, the unfortunate man
in the town has to go, in many cases, eight or ten
miles out. When that lot is finished—good Lord
deliver us !
“Agricola”: “The Prooshan’s” crow-
slaying par. seems to have set things humming in
the crow line. But all the competitors have
neglected to mention the simplest method, prac-
tised by the juvenile with his untrusty '22. On
killing-day the carcase is left hanging all night to
cool, and the crows, who superintend the
slaughter from the neighboring gum-trees, call
round pretty early in the morning to sample the
quality of the beef, and to carry off the scrag-ends,
and the bulk of the kidney-fat. They don’t bother
to look in at the window, and caw, either —they’d
simply hate to interfere with the family slumbers.
But when the shadow of Scalp Day is hovering in
the middle distance, young Bill is up long before
the crows, and safely planted under the hide, with
the muzzle of the '22 bearing on the carcase.
The nose of old Bottly-neclc is too full of meat-
smell to notice the perfume of the boy, and as he
settles on the carcase, in the place where the tail
was yesterday, he softly chortles “caw.” That
is the last remark he makes in this world, for
young Bill conveys the corpse to the wood-heap
and decapitates it.
* » * *
“F.H.R.”: I’ll leave it to any jury of
bushmen that this is the only genuine “Wagga
rug.” Take three wheat or corn sacks and sew
them together with a packing-ijeedle and twine,
side to side. Nothing "more is needed, and if
they be ripped up the rug loses its most valuable
asset —weight. I have seen them made thus in
camps all over Australia, but have never yet seen
a man carry one in his swag. They are generally
made in the beginning of winter and discarded,
or turned into bag tent-flys, in the summer.
Made this way, they are just the right length and
width for a single bunk, and I know of nothing
that defies cold and frost like them. I put in a
winter in Gippsland with the aid of one, so I
ought to know.
* * * *
“ Pylock ” writes indignantly, evidently
under the impression that there is only one Night
Well and that he has the loan of it: —
Me night-well, who has been pulling “ Wurrym’s” leg?
It is quite evident from his letter that he has never seen
the well. Now, it is not east of Wagin, nor is it 30 or 40
miles from there, but it is situated in the bed of a creek,
on the Albany-Ravensthorpe Road, about 80 miles from
Albany and 100 from Ravensthorpe. It is eight or nine
miles from Mungup Station, on the Pallunip River. It is
a cleft in a big flat rock, and fresh water rises in this cleft
a* - irregular intervals and disappears, sometimes remain-
ing in nearly all day and sometimes only an hour or two.
It mostly comes in between 10 and 11 at night; some-
times not till three or four in the morning, and occasion-
ally not at all—once not for two weeks. I cannot offer
any explanation of the phenomenon, but fancy it is due
to some tidal action. It is a well-known camping place.
In sandalwood times I have seen 20 and 30 horses watered
there at a time, and it seemed to have no effect on the
supply. I, myself, have camped there scores of times,
and my father has known of the place for 40 years. It’s
native name is Caipuaru-Wimbric, which is rather long
for general conversation. Shall be glad to hear from
“ Wurrym ” again, and, if possible, show him the place
provided he is not a N.S.W. land agent.
GIPPSLAND CATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With bells the road tinkles
As home the mob passes
To the milk-cans and sheds,
And the long and lush grasses.
Whips crack at the muster,
Men shout and hoofs rattle
They smell lucerne paddocks
Wild, winter scrub cattle.
For food long they’ve foraged,
Turned out from snows’ dazzle
In the blanket-wood scrub
And the wild oats and hazel.
Driven back to the bails
At turn o’ the seed-time,
Proud mothers with calves
For the milk-time and feed-time.
'Cross creek and round cutting,
Up mountain side pushing,
Flanks steaming, horns gleaming—
They’re roaring and rushing.
And the shouts and bells clanging
Break louder and clearer,
Down bush tracks to Neerim
Still nearer and nearer.
Till the road rings and rattles
As home the mob passes
To the sliprails and sheds
And the sweet, springing grasses.
VIC.
LOUIN ESSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A 'o notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken o f
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (off any State) accompany.
Pigsty: You seem to take more interest in
sectarian problems than this paper does. You say, “It is
a universal fact that the R.C. poor are the poorest of the
poor.” Dunno! Among European nations the ones
showing least wealth per inhabitant are Russia and Servia
(mostly Greek Church) and Turkey. (Roland, which is
Catholic, is the richest part of Russia.) For individual
poverty you won’t beat the East End of London by much.
Then you say that, with one exception, “ R.C. nations are
decadent.” Dunno ! Among the nations which have
nearly bossed Europe at different times, and which are
now nothing in particular, are Sweden and Holland (Pro-
testant), Spain and Rortugal (R.C.) and Turkey (Moham-
medan). Among conspicuously rising nations to-day are
Italy (it was going downhill before Christianity was in-
vented and is just beginning to look up), Argentina and,
to some extent, Mexico (all R.C.); Germany, U.S.,
Australia and Canada (which are from three-
fifths to four-fifths Protestant); and Japan (Bud-
dh.st). One thing, however, tnis paper does know.
In Australia most Orangemen seem to be attached to the
Freetrade party and to howl for foreign imports and attack
Australian industries—from Freetrader Rarkes with Ins
Kiama Ghost down to Freetrader Wilks with his Walls of
Derry. And in JN.S.W. every "candidate who is put up
now on the Orange ticket is a declared enemy of
Australian manufactures. That ought to make every
good Australian sick of the Walls of Derry
Jeach: “Missed Deal” begins with two good verses,
then ends badly Barlelo: Some good points in
“ Australian Curlew” (by the way, have you been read-
ing Bret Harte’s “Australian Emeu,” with the accent on
the last syllable V) but on the whole rather too rugged..
E.A.Y. : Couldn’t build a picture on that idea G.lv.
(S.Y.): Originality of that poem is beyond all question.
No one could borrow a poem like that. There is no place
to borrow it from....R.M.V. : Just the usual “Farewell”
poem... .Tom B.: “Adam’s Curse” is a subject that is
best left alone.. ..“R.J.” : You want Theß. to say some-
thing severe about a Gippsland parson who, instead of
“ saving souls,” is giving free instruction to pros-
pectors, &c., about saving gold. The severest thing
it can think of to say is that that parson
seems to have some extra-cantankerous critics....
Bush-girl: “Shop” doesn’t quite reach the mark....
Darcy Mac: W.p.b. accordingly J.A.D. : Not abso-
lutely bad... .Leontide: Approaches merit in places, and
violently recedes in others S.E.F.J.: Versification too
awkward....J. Marsh: insufferably long-winded and
twaddlesome G. Mac: That fox and fiea yarn is a
hundred years old (or else a thousand), and it is based
on the erroneous idea that the flea is a readily drownable
object Wild Flower: Received letter saying you
“herewith forward a few verses.” Not a verse enclosed.
. ...S.H.J. : Horribly confused. For lack of inverted
commas and other trifles the dialogue all runs together in
a shapeless heap S.O.L. : “Outsider” very stereo-
typed. Other better, yet hardly good enough....
W.W.R.: “ Squaring-up ” well written —what there is of
it. That doesn’t mean that there isn’t enough of it, for
often there is too much of a tale chat is insufficient, and
sometimes there is just enough of a tale that is insuf-
ficient, and occasionally a tale is both insufficient and
there’s not enough of it G.A.8.: lie “In Other Words”
why those remarks about the world being “ in white ”
at Christmas? Much of the world isn’t Ugly Duck-
ling : Impossibility of rhyming “ spirits ” with
“hysterics” turned the scale against it
Tambo : Even the simplest kind of agricultural meeting
wouldn’t tall in like that Winifred: Almost good
enough A. A. : “ Fish O ” yarn only impresses us with
deep, deep contempt for the local efiemist who valued
tallow at £5 an ounce... .S.E. : “ Lament ” disappointing.
First verse made us expect something better, and, instead,
we found something worse Riki: “Jones’’poem un-
worthy of so great a subject. The first Jones who became
Premier should have been hailed by a loftier bard
Cardross: “Remembrance” too slender Ralph the
Rover: Your anthem has roved right over the rim of the
horizon W.M. : “ Simple Song ”is so simple and gentle
as to be almost childish Euterpe: Hardly strong-
enough. Seems that your “ Bushland Rover ” has just
been and gone and roved Cohen: “Waif” thrown
out for non-payment of dog-tax Two-Tooth : As
verse, it fails. Might have made a decent prose sketch...
J W.M. : Rather good idea, not very well handled
Agnostic : Not ill-done, but has hardly grip enough.
Will consider anything sent, of the kind you mention
Squatter: Local interest only. We don’t acknowledge
pars; would require too much space.... Vic. Holt: Too
crudely melodramatic Em. : The treatment doesn’t
redeem the triteness of the ideas Dan : Rather cheaply
sentimental E. Campbell: Well intended, but had no
literary chance Phoenix : Good enough in its way, but
it isn’t our way .. .T. Garnett: Moderately well written,
but hardly suits us E.M.J.8.: Inferior workmanship.
P.C.M.: Note the weak spots where marked Chris.
if.: Thev don’t quite squeeze in Wild Flower : Pool-
quality The Loafer: We’ve no wish to be “hard on
you,” "but your verse is hopelessly “outofit.” E.M.B. :
The faulty metre kills it Cocky: The whole idea of
the Progressive Land-Tax (with exemptions) is to hit the
big land shark and make him sell out to cocky. An
income-tax wouldn’t have anything like the same effect ;
the worst land monopolist is the one w'ho draws but a
small income, or no income at all, from his holding, but
who locks up the land for a rise... .One of the Old School:
Sorry can’t sympathise with your indignation. The
Sydney trams are (1) about the cheapest in the world ;
(2) have verv little accommodation for smokers. A
mother with two young children occupying two seats in
the smoker on one fare is swindling the Government
and putting other people to needless inconvenience (pre-
sumably neither she nor the young children wish to smoke).
Aif. W.: Much too long a tale for such a small cat
Lantana : Are your facts as weak as your names—" Little-
ton ” for “ Lyttleton ” ; “ Bailey ” for “ Bayley ” ; “ Bar-
rataria” for “Barataria”? Don’t like to go on such
loose-looking information.. ..N.P. : “Tommy Tanna’s
Sermon ” is too much like so many other nigger sermons
which depend for their humor mostly on “ Big Fella
God” and “ Debbil-debbil.” And there is in Tasmania
a railway-station called Dubble-Barril (or something like
that), which is quite as funny as “ debbil-debbil.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Quip : Joke invisible ; picture isn’t, but that’s its only
good point W.D. : Can’t say, but shouldn’t think so ;
it’s just crude drawing which thousands of the untaught
are capable of Ken A. : Neither very promising
Lou W. : Picture ot man With spectacles pointing at
animal rather pointless Peerman : “ Doing the Grand ”
hasn’t a feature to recommend it R. 8.8. : “Capital
leaving the Country ” looks like a picture of an angel.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men—buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*


6 ir)T'- Be off — yotK
Ifr) H~s yo** r
surfer! ’ _ f|
'-^ySTRAUA~ v
been wi^~
/NQw
" Hof on! Lrfs hA v e A looK a^^is! ”
>i
The force is *foo demoralised
\ do fulfil its lunctfon^.
=X L Ar^ OS 3
E/citW Citizen'. — *' Hey! —’C°*>« q«\icK
'tfjercs tnurder ih ttext~ / -
HwstenKy Co'ist^ble:- "LpVe »ie -I «>
Jr harness -
/ (S*\>s)
jfe«AS,„
p:vr»
totATHUt,; l*M
**Y OLon^l
is A Sl*4 |
J^ e iferfoJy' ,
L SetTii^
"^ e
%f !!/. ,-
u (5^W.
" -to loolC i»7 ►nirror >
V/€. 3^
I infixed Sj>oi~ on dlf> if-
koui' tr°s«.. " Hie ! .Hie! we ,
y | e II W*^!
| I |
WorraJl I
Cheshire Caft - Variety
°f I,e >Lord W j
deli obiTM I lis'To V
see % whole
wo^i|>
r-
yr><2. :
H°2L 1
a A .
; jj
5 CV^
r
? ”tbe C6S+J)
"Af'ne 3 "*** **> ,h ~\—
mV* whom flje ,r> § ba*dT|i
been delighted do bonoor .
/< t3»> been "to .
. CUf °£ U 750 leroh J^'fe^^ectTo^’
Nf°B
|o*v» /.,
K S J A
TO BE PUBLISHED
, SHORTLY
the
MISTAKES
OF
-MX LIFE
yfyJJj TBEMT
fd
PIOUS REFLECTIONS.


“ The turning of the flood waters of the Gouiburn
River into Waranga Basin (Victoria) next week will
raise the water in the basin by 6ft. There are two
houses below what will then be water-level. One .Is
occupied by Mrs. Thomas Cleary, who announces that
unless she receives compensation for the loss of the house she wlil
stay in the old home until the Government drowns her. The Govern-
ment nas given her notice to quit, and has declined to recognise
claim to compensation."
Mr. Bent is here seen trying to persuade
Mrs. C. to “Come out o’ that.”
• see your Government wrecked A
first 1 ” says she.
T N E S» E i™ ° F »
R ' ,L ' v *v station^'
to U/ A, "°"R (!) the ■pta'ker.
A Woman
From the
Bush ”
discourages
outside compe-
tition in the local
matrimonial market
thus :
“Girls will live to
curse the day that they
first heard of Australia, us
many English women do who
marry Australians, and come out
l&,lo this country in ignorance of
the life before them. The
burning heat of summer,
\ the cold of winter,
t| in comfortless wooden
houses, with roofs
close to the head.”
—Correspondence In
Sydney paper.
Stout Landed Person: “Look here;
you not only eat my grass,, but you
prevent me getting .cheap labor.
You must go.”
Young Australian Farmer (to
imported wife) : “My dear,
you’ll either have to take off
that head-gear, or I’ll have
to take off the roof. Now,
which shall it be?”
Australia can find many more pressing
things to do with the money.
" 4 * 0 '
f ° UU ' 3 ’ thC aPPr ° Val ° f the will beLrkea JtLuZTZyr “
RABBITS, RAILWAYS, &c.


\
The. Worlds;;
i- Dentifrice
Odol not only beautifies but
it also preserves the teeth, and
the fragrant taste it leaves in the
mouth is most refreshing.
Price 2\6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for
several months ( the half-size bottle l,c).
Of all Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Davy Gaunson, in Vie. Assembly: “ I
believe with all the great physicians that a man
should get drunk once a month.”
One of Bananaland’s new M’s.L.C. sank to
sleep twice during the opening ceremony. He
seems to have summed up the duties of the Upper
House pretty swiftly.
Labor member Charles McDonald, the new
Chairman of Committees in the House of Reps.,
is an artist among other things. Two of his paint-
ings, “Young Blue Gums, Victoria,” and “Bou-
gainvillea,” were shown at the recent annual
exhibition of the Queensland Art Society, held in
Brisbane.
Parson Hughes is getting on in the material
world of Melbourne, getting on in society, getting
on everywhere that money and an agreeable
anecdotal manner can get anybody on in this
world. He drives a fast motor, is a recognised first
nighter, and a frequenter of the cafes and high-
class dining places in the city.
At the age of 84 years, Joseph Taggert
went over last week, at Quirindi (N.S.W.).
Seventy years ago he arrived in Sydney with
his parents. As mailman' he opened up the route
between Murrurundi and Walgett when there
were but three white men at each end, and four
white women on the whole route.
Veteran Melbourne journalist James
Smith is bestirring himself in spiritualism again.
He has just circulated a pamphlet explanatory of
the cult, accompanied by a long report of a speech
said to have been made to a medium by the spook
of Richard Seddon. The speech is almost long
enough to be genine, for Seddon was dreadfully
voluminous in his later years.
The boundary rider’s find of 257 sovereigns
in a kerosene tin on the Molong (N.S.W.) station
of Kater, M.L.C., recalls a loss made by the same
Kater long ago, when a clerk in a Mudgee bank.
Kater was given some £6OOO in notes to be taken
to the head office as exchanges, and, at Cherry
Tree Hill on the way down, was relieved of his
handbag by a pair of bushies. One of the rangers
was arrested and returned his share, but the other
was shot dead by Sergeant Stephenson and the
hiding place of his £3OOO was never discovered.
A BIG CLIMB.
The anti-Bosh monkey after the cocoa-nut vote.
“Lil”: Be Melbourne police-magistrate
Panton (B. 19/7/’O6). My rabbit-vendor is candid
enough to confess that he has been forced under
the notice of that P.M. more than once. He gave
me the sum of his experience thus: “Panton’s
right enough in some ways, but when you’re up
before ’im. Gawd ’elp yer if y’ ’ave big ears. ’E
’as one look at yer ears, and you’re done ! ”
The proposal to present Mrs. Seddon with
her late husband’s Ministerial residence and
£lO,OOO is not likely to pass in Maoriland without
considerable opposition in the press, if not in the
House itself. Statements are being printed that,
apart from the real estate and personality of her
late husband, Mrs. Seddon is a fairly wealthy
woman in her own right.
Ex-Railway Commissioner John Mathieson,
some years ago autocrat of Queensland and then of
Victorian railways, was on two occasions within a
signature or two of securing railway control in
N.S.W. He was an able man in his line, but,
while threatening with dismissal any one under
him who solicited political influence, he himself
constantly courted it for his own advancement.
He cultivated prominent politicians as an industry,
quite irrespective of what State they belonged
to. Accordingly, when a hitch occurred any-
where, Premiers and leaders of Opposition thought
first of Mr. John Mathieson. His trouble lay
with the men under him. N.S.W. railway men
who threatened fight under Eddy and Oliver,
would have fought outright with Mathieson.
The appointment
of Acting Equity-
Judge Street (N.S.
Wales) will relieve
the congestion of
work in that seques-
tered jurisdiction.
J ustice Gregory'
Walker’s ill-health
and Justice A. H.
Simpson’s absence
have caused a silting-
up of causes in the
mild and placid, al-
most cloistered, se-
clusion of Equity.
The Acting - Judge-
ship was offered to
one “ silk’’—Adrian
Knox—and, it is said,
he refused to take it
for a less period than
six months. Street is
a “ stuff ” gown, but
has been moving up
rapidly of late. He
is not only a capable
lawyqr and a man
with a bright brain
and some wit, but he
is discreet also, and
may be relied upon
not to break out with
judicial jokes during
his three months’
tenure of office. Act-
ing Judges never do. It’s only when a man’s perma-
nently and irremovably appointed that he discovers
a vein of dreadful humor. Even Justice Pring
has been known to joke—if it be not contempt of
No. 3 J ury Court to say so.
S. Australia’s loud-voiced ex-Works Minister
Richard Witty Foster, who was once a full-fledged
Methodist parson—almost everybody is or has
been a Methodist parson in 8. A. —is to be one of
the Ass candidates for Senator. Once Foster
followed in the footsteps of Kingston, but associa-
tion with Jenkins affected his political morals,
and now his bray about the horrors of progress is
heard in and out of season.
The oath in Court is usually administered
by a glib and frequently illiterate tipstaff.
Judge Murray is the only N.S. Wales'Judge who
personally administers the oath. Burton, who
officiated in 1832-44, always administered the oath,
and made witness repeat the words after him.
That Judge was a stickler for punctuality ; on one
occasion he fined himself £5 for being late, but
before the Court rose remitted the fine on account
of his own previous good character.
Some years ago, when applying for ad-
mission to the Melbourne Cricket Club, a certain
Victorian M.P. was blackballed. He was what
was known as a pro-Boer, which was a dire
offence in those days. Since then Chinese labor
has been introduced into South Africa; also, the
M.P. in question has become a Minister of the
Crown, and was incidentally appointed a trustee
of the Melbourne (or Metropolitan) Cricket
Ground quite recently by the Government. Then,
when the recent cricket dispute was at its height,
Samson, in the person of the new trustee, rose
up and delivered a knock-out blow that put the
grab-all M.C.C. out of court. And, behind it all,
the M.C.C. sees a pro-Boer M.P. who was black-
balled by the club some years age.
Everett Digges la Touche, 8.A.,
spouting throughout Victoria against Home
Rule in the wake of the Irish delegates,
Devlin and Donovan, is said to have been
brought out from England by Simian
Phraser and others of the Orange clan.
Everett Digges la Touche is a small young
man of somewhat the same physical
type as the Wesleyan Judkins. So far
the very existence of Everett Digges la
Touche is hardly suspected by most
people.
“ Wang ” remembers an
apostle :
Reading- of Dowie, Judkins, and other fanatics, reminds
me of one I knew a few years ago. He hung out at
Oowies’ Creek, near Geelong, on the Anakie road. Every
Sunday, clad in white from shoes to headpiece, and
carrying a cross made of a pitchfork handle, to which
was attached a white cloth, he would station himself
alongside the road and wait for victims. The stock
market was held on Mondays at Geelong, and remote
stock owners sent in their animals on Sundays. The first
time I met old Snowflake I was following up a flock of
sheep on foot, leading my horse, with the reins slung
carelessly over my shoulder. Then suddenly a vision in
white hurled itself over an adjacent stone wall and bore
straight down on me, with the cross held aloft and the
cloth flapping in the breeze. The sheep spread them-
selves out all over the landscape, and my horse bolted.
The old pale evangelist cleared his throat for an exhorta-
tion ; but from his surprised look as he listened to my
remarks, he evidently came to the conclusion that I was
beyond his reclamatory powers. He contented himself
with wavjng the pitchfork-handle cross over my head a
couple of times. Then he went away to watch for the
next sinner. Last time I saw old Snowflake he was flying
for his life from an incensed Hindu hawker, whose gods
he had aspersed. I didn’t interfere.
Bishop Langley, of Bendigo, who died of
paralysis on Sunday, was born in 1840 at Dun-
garvon (County Cork, Ireland), and came to Aus-
tralia in the first 50’s. His early story in Ireland
mostly tells how he lived at some place beginning
with “Kil,” or moved to some place beginning
with “Bally.” He started to take care of the
immortal soul in N.S.W. at the early age of 25,
and in succeeding years he was two curates, four
incumbents, three archdeacons, and one bishop.
Bendigo only rose to the dignity of owning a
bishop in 1902, and Mr. Langley was the first
holder of the office. He leaves 12 children.
Mr. Sam Hordern, in the N.S.W. Arbitra-
tion Court, made some interesting remarks re-
specting apprenticeships; he does not believe in
them, and gave one instance as an illustration.
His father, Anthony Hordern, had apprenticed
to him a youth named William Bede Dailey, who
did not appear likely to make much of a draper,
but whom Anthony Hordern thought might make
something of a lawyer. Accordingly he released
the boy Dailey from his indentures, with results
widely known. It was generally imagined in
Sydney that it was to Mr. John Hordern, of
Nottingham House, corner George and Grosvenor
streets, that Dailey was apprenticed.
William Stuart Forbes, baronet, who died
in Maoriland lately, was a striking person-
ality, standing 6ft. sin. He was the ninth
baronet, and came into the unprofitable title some
years back. Stated that deceased derived the
income wherewith he bought plug tobacco
for his declining years in a rather curious
way. He had been one of four old cronies who
used to gamble at cards regularly, and the under-
standing was that all winnings should be banked
on the tontine principle, the last survivor of the
lot to take the pool. Baronet William saw the
others under the turf, and gathered in the shekels.
The shekels weren’t very numerous, but they
came in handy.
THE RAG-PICKER.
It is now the (Vie.) Government’s business to collect the shreds of its tattered
dignity.— Aon on the Wore all fuss.
AUSTRALIA : “ Another loely advertisement for State rights .”
The pomp of Willie-Motor Kelly was
illustrated the day Bent gave Parson Worrall the
famous advertisement. Willie, with Fisher,
Thomas, McWilliams, Chanter, Hughes, Spence,
Salmon, Phillips and Maloney of the Reps., found
himself in the lobby of the State House. All
the seats inside were occupied by people who
had rushed to see the show. So William-Motor
asked Bent to allow them the back benches ot the
chamber, and Bent moved accordingly ; and gave
tho names of the Federal members who were to be
admitted. Willie’s name was far down the list,
but large odds were hurriedly offered in the Press
gallery that lie would be the first to enter. And
he was. He had shoved himself into the van, and
he led the way with all the pomp and self-
consciousness of a school girl rising in her new
white frock on exam-day to state that the boy
stood on the combustible upper storey of the ship.
Belmore, the Earl who clawed at his pay
more keenly than any other Governor N.S.W.
ever had, and after whom many things about Syd-
ney are named—including the malodorous markets
alongside which the Owe-’Sulli van railway-station
is built —is still living. Nowadays, at 71, he is
senior representative peer of Ireland, having been
elected, for life, half a century ago. His wife was
a niece of W. F. Gladstone’s. It was said that he
only accepted the post in N.S.W. while the
estates in the North of Ireland were being
nursed back to solvency. Besides Governoring,
he grew cabbages in Australia, and scraped in
every penny he could. He even claimed a day’s
pay for one day spent on board ship in Sydney
Harbor. “Who’s Who ” says that he owns about
15,000 acres, and is also heir to an estate in Kent
“ now enjoyed by his mother.” One would think
the lady must be too old for any wild enjoyment
in Kent.
“ Quan ” : John Macarthur may have
been the first in Australia to object to being tried
by a man who had borrowed money from him,
and this may have happened on the occasion of
his being cited to appear on a charge of having
smuggled a private still into Sydney ; but that was
not the occasion upon which he objected to Judge-
Advocate Atkin trying him, nor was the objec-
tion that stated (B. 19/7/’O6). Says Sutherland’s
“History of Australia” (which calls him Atkin,
and not Atkins): —
The determining cause (of Bligh’s deposition) was sup-
plied by a guarrel which took place between Mr. Mac-
arthur and Mr. Atkin, the new Judge-Advocate of the
colony. Mr. Macarthur was condemned to pay a heavy
fine for neglect, in having permitted a convict to escape
in a vessel of which he was partly the owner. He refused
to pay, and was summoned before the court of which
Atkin was the president. He declined to appear, on the
ground that Atkin was his personal enemy.
Finney’s “History of the Australian Colonies”
gives the same account.
Taken by-and-large, American millionaires
are a mean-souled lot, and perhaps the meanest
was the just-deceased Russell Sage. “Uncle
Russell,” like Rockefeller, has been praised as an
unremittingly industrious, churchgoing and am-
bitious man, but his meanness was a characteristic
which blotted out all the rest. Even when he was
handling millions of his own, and was one of the
biggest operators on New York Stock Exchange,
he was daily to be seen haggling with a street
apple-woman over the number of apples she
should give him for a penny* or growing tearful
in the effort to get a fly-specked cake of chocolate
at half-price. When apples were what he called
dear he lunched off half of one. Sage never gave
money away. A collector for a deserving cause
pointed out that Mrs. Sage (who had money in
her own right) appeared as a giver on his list, and
invited her husband to be another. He thought
he had scored when Uncle Russell wrote some-
thing on the paper, but on investigation it turned
out that he had merely sought for some cheap
credit by writing “Mr. and” before his wife’s
“Mrs. Russell Sage.” By such exercise of
“thrift’’this shocking example of millionairism
managed to leave sixteen million pounds, and
started for eternity without a penny in his pocket.
The silly censuring of Rev. Thingummy
at the Bar of the Victorian Assembly reminds
one that a bogus “dignity” of the British
Parliament was maintained for many years
after Cromwell’s time by the unresisted
authority of the Speaker. The penalty of being
“named” by the Speaker was vaguely under-
stood to be the most terrible thing thatcould happen
to a member of the Commons. If an inquisitive
young politician asked a veteran to explain the
effect of the Speaker’s naming, the veteran would
solemnly reply “God knows,” and that ended the
inquiry. Nobody dared to test the power of the
penalty. At last Hr. Kenealy, the champion of
the Tichborne Claimant, got into violent conflict
with the Chair. “ I call upon the honorable
member to resume his seat,” said Mr. Speaker.
The rowdy doctor of laws continued to perform
until the man in the wig had repeated his request
several times. Then came the “naming.” In
his loudest possible voice, the Speaker cried
"Dr. Kenealy”—and the House of Commons
held its breath. The hon. member had been
addressed as no other hon. member had been
addressed within the memory of man. The
mysterious meaning of the penalty was about to
come to light. Men gazed upon the victim as at
one whose minutes are numbered. The Speaker
completed his sentence, “Dr. Kenealy— sit
down!” Since then a good many members have
endured the “ naming ” without a shudder, and,
as a rule, they refused to sit down under it.
“jSTum” discourses about people who are
called to the Bar without any idea of supplying
them with liquid refreshment: —
The first man called to the Bar of the Vic. Assembly
was Turner, a Ballarat editor, who had offended the
majesty of Parliament by an article published in ’6l. The
proceedings were just as farcical as those of last week, and
having been admonished, Turner went away to sin some
more. Dill, the publisher of The Argus, was struck with
the same public feather a few months later. The next
man to appear at the Bar was Dill’s successor, Hugh
George, who was sent to the spot known as “ the leads ’’
where he lived like a belligerent rooster for
some weeks at State expense. Syme was the ensuin''
visitor in’67, and, in the course of the proceedings, Davi§
gave Parliament such a bad time that it was glad to let
him go. In the same year, Hargreaves, the gold dis-
coverer, appeared for having made statements about
certain alleged smellful transactions implicating a num-
ber of leading citizens of the day. The affair was allowed
to fizzle out, apparently in the interests of those who
desired to let the sleeping dogs remain horizontal. In
’6B one Andrew’Tobin, a wild Irishman of sixteen stone,
was brought up for threatening Minister Longmore with
stoush and not supplying it, and, the following year, Glass
and Quarteman appeared to answer charges of corruption.
In their case, the usual practice of sending prisoners to
“ the leads ” W’as not followed. They were committed to
Melbourne Gaol, and remained there unti) the end of the
session, which is the longest sentence Parliament has
power to impose. Over 20 years elapsed before
Clark, the editor of one of the Ballarat papers
was brought up. The Speaker bellowed forth
his censure, and shook the Mace ; and that pressman,
who w'as as deaf as a post, stood at the Bar wonder-
ing whether he was being complimented on his
vigorous English or sentenced to death. Parson
Edgar, of the Wesley Church—prominent last week in the
glorification of the Rev. Worrall—was the next offender.
Edgar had said that Parliament contained liars and
profligates, but he sadly lacked the grit of his brother,
Worrall. At the Bar, he did the most abject trawl ever
seen outside Japan. Elmslie and Packer, publishers of
the Argus and Age, were each fined £lOO in ’99 for print-
ing a report on a subject that was sub judice, and Wor-
rall’s is the first case since then. There is a general im-
pression that the late Jimmy M’Kean, the giant Mel-
bourne solicitor, was called to the Bar; but a different
procedure was adopted in the two cases in which he was
concerned. M’Kean was a member for years, and, in '76,
he remarked, in Collingwood court, that members of
Parliament were a lot of drunken scoundrels. The same
night the matter was referred to in the Assembly, a com-
mittee of enquiry was appointed, and when Parliament
met next day the first business was the expulsion of
M’Kean from the House. The- other case, which hap-
pened a few months previously, occurred through
M’Kean’s defiance of the Chair, lie was “ named ”in his
place, and, as he still scoffed at the piece of furniture, he
was committed to “ the leads,” where he remained a
prisoner for three weeks. M’Kean may be said to have
led a stormy life in politics.
Parson Won-all's accusing screech at
Gillott, and its comic-opera consequences, sopped
up all the available limelight, and left Brudder
Judkins in the cold, wet darkness. But Judkins,
who has a paper as well as a pulpit to advertise,
wasn’t the sort to stand that. He arose at first
opportunity and loudly proclaimed, not merely
Gillott, but the whole Vic. Parliament asM’Leod’s
murderers. Then Judkins anxiously awaited the
sudden blaze of light. But it didn’t coine -only a
thicker blackness. Bent had suddenly found sense
and had recognised that there is no profit in taking
serious notice of the hysterics of women and
parsons.
MR. REID’S TOUR IN BAN AN ALAND.
G EORGE: "Now, surely, after my doing all this
for you, you’ll he good and take your anti-
Sosh like a little man. Won’t you?”
On the 19th June a memorial service was
held at St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, as a last
tribute of respect to the late Richard Seddon.
All English officialdom, from the King to the
Salvation Army, was represented; every Aus-
tralian State sent its Agent-General ; the Cape
and Natal were there. Even the British South
Africa Co. sent its secretary. The Commonwealth
alone was conspicuous in being unrepresented.
Matters must have reached a pretty pass if politi-
cal jealousies in his Cabinet are to prevent Deakin
from daring to provide Australia with a represen-
tative in England for even a funeral service.
THE DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T am a man led by the holy spirit. —Parson W. H
W orrall, at Bendigo.
Of old the grim Jehovah ruled
His peoples with an iron rod ;
By flood and famine they were schooled
To fear the heavy hand of God.
He smote the froward ones of earth
With fire and pestilence and sword ;
By open grave and blackened hearth
They bowed themselves before the Lord.
But now the puny priestlings seek
In vain to sway a careless world ;
The voice of thunder waxes weak,
The bolts are impotently hurled.
The ancient glory groweth dim,
And all the splendid strength is spent;
For Judkins is the voice of Him,
And Worrall is His instrument.
VIC.
R.P.


ANTHONY HORDERN’S SALE
FIFTEEN ACRES of Sale Bargains in Full Bloom for
THREE WEEKS. Fail not to Reap a Harvest of Joy.
&
ft®
sSfigo
<ESB
gg
ftg
OR
ORc,
fiiw
'*:>!
HI
lillHl
IHllffll
' MV,,,
I’lMßMl'Hli)
PIB
'rA
m
JPM
V
i itt9
ON THE HISTORIC SLOPE OF BRICKFIELD HILL
July 30th
. . to . .
August 18th
*
Both Days
Inclusive.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY-
7).
m
jOiHUW
S?ecifu-
w
s*jr
m
D ou *»'
3
FO
Scotch
c £*m/\h
i 6 Uwo/
Misr^.
%
fofeks! Boiit
ir\ow ifv&i we need 3
JOSHUAS
"SPECIAL
If Better 6 &Lot Older"


Be Your Own Beauty Doctor.
' If you have a complexion that has a muddy or faded
appearance, or be troubled with blackheads, freckles and
wrinkles, or any skin blemishes whatever, you can easily
exchange for a skin without a blemish, a complexion
radiant with a transparent freshness, a clear, smooth, and
perfect skin that is so much to be admired. This is the
kind of complexion that we guarantee if you will give
Valaze a fair trial. Price 3s. 6d., or large jar 6s. (contain-
ing three times the amount), 6d. postage. Leading
chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274
Collins-street, Melbourne. Dr. Lykuski’s Special Yalaze
Blackhead and Open Pores Cure—guaranteed to cure most
obstinate cases—2s. 6d. tin, by post 3s. Valaze Herbal
Soap, lasts six months, 2s. cake. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to cover Postage and we will forward you our latest edi-
tion of the “ New Guide to Beauty,” a book that is full of
most valuable information concerning the skin and
health, and will prove most useful and instructive
to anyone.*
Under Vice-Regal Patronage.
MADAME MASSERAN,
CORSETIERE, of Melbourne,
begs to inform her clients that she will be at
the Hotel Metropole, Sydney, from Wednesday,
15th, to Wednesday 22nd inst., both days
inclusive.
t f»nt to H.M. Kf
&
A
Charles Heidsieck
SEIHS
EXTRA DRY
91%
U
f JNEST EXTRA Q?
MIL
zftwvcA/
■mt
HIGH-CLASS COMFORTS .
BUCHANAN * OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE .
TRADE maVkTHE varnished board
39
Dress Fabrics
Are Stocked bv the
Leading Drapers.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, August 7, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
A large bunch of orange blossoms: Miss J eanette
Osborne, one of the Ben. Osbornes, of Hopewood,
Bowral, is going to stand under the floral
wedding-bell with Mr. Arthur Peck, who is in
the civil service of some Malay region. They
met on the premises of Jessop, the cricketer, in
England. She is one of the best-looking of the
great army of her name. Mr. Duncan Osborne,
one of the Aleck Osborne group, is engaged to
Miss Maddrell, of Braidwood. A sister of hers
married a beautiful, brass-bound person named
Hussey-Cooper, of the P. and 0. line. Bride-
groom-elect (Duncan) has a cherubic baby face,
and both he and his Choice are well-off. Also
Miss Minnie Richards, of Rand wick, is engaged
to Mr. Willie Badgery, of Taralga.
In musical and wool coteries the engagement of
interest is that of Mr. George Grimm, the well-
known vocalist, to Miss Kate Durham, of Rich-
mond. She is a confessedly beautiful girl with a
little voice—just enough to blend with George’s.
The Durhams, who have a ripping house at Rich-
mond, are related to the Wentworths, Hills,
Badgerys, and Dalgarnos.
Miss Lizzie Hogue, second daughter of the
Chief Secretary, is another about to face the
three-barred love-honor-and-obey gate. Bride-
groom-elect is named Holmes.
A son of the Chief Secretary has been engaged
by Mr. J.C. W. for the Repertory Co.
A last-mail letter from London says that Melba
is much stouter than when Australia last gazed
upon her, and now presents the real “straight-
front ” figure to her admiring audiences. But as
long as Fat doesn’t get into that Voice nobody
but Melba and her dressmakers will mind.
One, who asserts that she knows , tells me that
Court presentation gowns may be hired for five or
ten guineas—and that even the expense of “the
rotten sixty guinea gown ” may be avoided. Also,
this Knower says that a Somebody holding
a lofty billet within shadow of King Edward
told a certain Agent-General that presentations
are made easy for Australians and Canadians,
especially for Australians. “WE”—notice the
size of the pronoun—“ recognise the slight class
distinctions in Australia and its democratic spirit,
and in consequence any Australian woman, pro-
vided she be reputable, is eligible for presentation
to her Majesty. Even the fact that she may be
working for her living is not a bar.” (There’s
generosity for you ! Imagine the Royal charity
being wide enough to cover such a sin as that of
getting your own living!) “WE” went on to
assure his hearers that this tolerance and let-’em-
all-eome courtesy was not extended to the English,
Irish, or Scotch woman. For her the Lord Cham-
berlain’s statutes are not eased any more than
in the late Victoria’s time. The Countess of
Crewe and Mrs. Coghlan seem to be sponsoring
the majority of Australians. If King Edward
would only say something democratic, such as “I
hope that every Australian girl, even though
she comes to my Kingdom as a stewardess,
will make it convenient to be presented to US,”
he would make a great number of persons glad, or
mad.
A romantic advt. from Melbourne Argus :
■p ECLUSE, beyond want, occupying little, low-roofed
- L|J bungalow, on idyllic river' bend, weary of iso-
lated solitude, desires to correspond with home-
loving woman, not averse to the holy bond. Sylvan
Dell, Argus Office.
Doubtless a tall, thin, elderly gentleman, with
that stoop that the peerage gets through bowing
to royalty at the Court of St. James, or at
Almacks, or the Tower of London, or somewhere.
He has a short, pointed beard (Van Dyck pattern),
and a tendency to linger with long white hands
over rare books and engravings, and he personally
breathes on his valuable collection of cameos, and
polishes them with his handkerchief. In the
low-roofed bungalow he ponders on his ancestors
who came in with the Conqueror, or the devil, or
some other remote personage. And this elevated
hermit now feels the want of a hermitess, who is
tall enough to live up to his dignity, and not so
tall as to knock her head against the lid of the
bungalow ; hence this advertisement, replies to
be addressed to Sylvan Dell —not “ Briggs.”
Amongst ancient Sydney mansions now on sale
is “Tusculum,” out Potts’ Point way. It was
built by a wine merchant named Young when
there were very few houses in Macleay-street,
and was afterwards occupied for many years by
William Long, wine and spirit merchant and
semi-millionaire, father of Mrs. Martin (the wife
of Chief Justice Martin) and Mrs. W. B. Dailey.
After the widow Long’s death, it was for a time
occupied by the only son, William Alexander
Long, M.L.C., of racing fame—commonly called
“Bill.” After him the house had a variety of
occupants, amongst them the W. P. Mannings.
Now much of the ground has been cut up
and sold, and the old mansion no longer
fronts Macleay-street, but hides itself away at
the back.
Mr. Frank Coffee and daughter Holly go for a
trip to the Land of the Canned by the Sierra on
Monday week. Mr. W. J. Spruson (of the firm of
Hepburn and Spruson, patent agents) also goes on
the same trip.
Miss Lute Mackenzie, daughter of Colonel
Mackeiizie, who commands something or someone
in Hobart, and niece of Francis Suttor, of the
Beautiful Calves, left yesterday with the Collier
Company for America, where she will make her
first appearance, perhaps carrying a banner. She
is a pretty, graceful youngster, and her military
parents must be quite day-after-to-morrow in
advancement to smile upon and sanction their
lamb’s sortie.
The smart florist girl, who runs her business
under the name of Florance and Co., is about to
be married to a Viennese resident in Sydney, one
of a firm of Austrian merchants.
Saw a just-finished linen frock lately that had
one of the small embroidered side pockets for a
hanky. It was in the form of an envelope with
straps at either side, and fastened with a hook in
the belt.
As Sydney remains obstinately dull, I’ll fill you
up with
A Smart Luncheon*.
(Mrs. Newmoon, a smart Sydney hostess, stands survey-
ing her smart luncheon table with the eyes, of a grazing
coxy looking at the next chew of grass. Three smart
maids stand a little behind her, respectfully sympathetic
in her satisfaction. The lady is smartly dressed. Her
hair, ever so slightly brightened by art, gleams as brilliantly
as the silver on the table. Her environment is luxu-
rious, but the pictures are not in the best taste.
She is quite young, and her complexion exquisite. A
whirring sound is audible from without, and, with a loud
sough, a smart automobile stops at the door. Mrs. New-
moon’s large brown eyes take on the look of a cow
expecting the evening bran. Enter a blaste debutante of
eighteen, wearing a tailor-made of violet cloth. She kisses
Mrs. Newmoon, who addresses her as Bouncie).
Mrs. Newmoon : Bouncie, it’s just dear of you to come
so early. What do you think of mv table ?
Bouncie (after a prolonged scrutiny) : It’s simply
ripping, Belle 1 Those two shades of pale green silk fixed
up to look like the petals of a flower—and the Neapolitan
and Russian violets. AVhere did you get it from ?
Mrs. Newmoon : It is 1113* own idea.
Bouncie : Oh, Belle, you little liar ! You know you
could no more have ideas than freckles.
Mrs. Newmoon (with a pleased side glance towards
the mirror): I mean I used the idea I saw in a fashion
paper. I wanted to have everything awfully nice, as it’s
lanthe’s last unmarried luncheon.
Bouncie : “ Last unmarried luncheon ! ” No wonder
you married so well, Belle, you do blunder so fasci-
natingly.
(They go into thedrawing-room and the blasie debutante
robs three chairs of their cushions to make her own more
comfortable).
Bouncie : lantlie is a hundred and two, isn’t she ?
Mrs. Newmoon : No. She's just thirty-two. Auntie is
her godmother you know*, and
Bouncie : And your aunt is just the woman to keep
other women up-to-date in the matter of a girl’s age—
especially if it’s verging on old age 1
Mrs Newmoon : Bouncie ! you'cat. Did you come half-
an-hour too early just to hand me acid-drops ?
Bouncie (after a pause): Well, dear, to tell you the
truth, 1 came early to warn you to set me next lanthe.
To-day she’s just an old maid of no particu'ar import-
ance, but by this time to-morrow she’ll be a smart young
married woman. 1 want her to persuade her ridiculous
husband to buy our motor-car. You know it cost £5OO.
We’ll sell for £4OO. Only three months in use. I want
the money for a flutter in Egypt with the Lambswools.
Who’s coming, Belle?
Mrs. Newmoon : The Lambswools and
Bouncie (interrupting): Isn’t Ren6 Lambswool getting
sharp ami hard-faced ? Really, her reflection in a mirror
is enough to scratch the quicksilver off the back. Go on
Belle.
Mrs. Newmoon : Mrs. Buster-Cross
Bouncie : The Greasy Merino.
Mrs. Newmoon : And Mrs. Margaux and Pearl
Bouncie : The vineyard people. Well, don't sit them
near the Lambswools. Wool and wine ivon’t mix. Yes?
Mrs. Newmoon : And Mrs. Foozler
Bouncie : I’m always glad of Rachel. She’s got the
freshest scandal made up on the spot—her spot. Ido
hope she’ll wear her leaning-tower-of-Pisa hat—the red
one that says out loud, “ This way', ladies ; this way' to the
bargain counter.” Go on, Belle.
Mrs. Newmoon : Miss Platto and
Bouncie : If old Platto’s in a bad humor she'll be amus-
ing. But “Menu, not Men,” is her motto. Anyone
else ?
Mrs. Newmoon: Mary Kittenly. She’s back from her
wedding-tour, you know ; and the Scoffsby' girl, and, of
course, lanthe. That’s all.
Bouncie : And enough 1 Ten human Black Thursdays !
I know I’ll be bored unless lanthe promises to buy' the car.
(Within the next ten minutes the ten guests arrive.
Some are in golf or hockey clothes, the others are smartly
frocked and furred, and wear violets. They follow their
hostess into the dining-room, their voices pitched high,
their movements energetic and confident. Only Mrs.'
Buster-Cross moves as if her legs were made of unjointed
wood. She smiles broadly from ear to ear, and from eye-
brows to treble chin. All seat themselves, talking as one
about the artistry of the table—all save Miss Platto, who
is intently reading the menu. The first course is served.)
lanthe (in reply to something the blasie debutante has
been urging upon her) : I’d love a motor, of course, but I
don’t think Billy'’s means will run to a car as well as the
horses and a brougham ; of the two I’d prefer the brougham ;
I don’t want to hide the light of my hair under a motor-
veil. Billy* says—
Mrs. Buster-Cross (a little oily about the lips and
chin): But isn’t it awful to think that a young man of his
age can’t marry without his mother’s section ?
The Scoffsby Girl (leaning eagerly forward) : Her what,
dear Mrs. Buster-Cross ?
Mrs. Buster-Cross (beaming): We’re talking of Hal
Smooker’s engagement, dearie. His father left it after
him in the will that Hal couldn’t marry without his
mother’s section.
(A group of the guests shriek with merriment. The
hostess colors faintly. Mrs. Buster-Cross looks offended,
and, amidst some confusion, Rene Lambswool holds out
a post-card.)
Miss Lambswool : It’s all through this, Mrs. Buster-
Cross.
Mrs. Buster-Cross (eagerly): Is it a funny one ? Send
it here. (She studies the card, which shows a draped
Grecian figure holding aloft a lamp. Then her jaw
falls) : Well, where’s what you laughed at ?
The Scoffsby Girl : Oh, just look at the length of the
waist of the girl. If you had a waist line that, Mrs.
Buster-Cross, we’d laugh at you. (Mrs. Buster-Cross,
whose 33-inch waist is near her armpits, looks pleased.)
Mrs. Lambswool : When I got your cheque, Mrs.
Buster-Cross, for the Infants’ Bib Fund, I got as well a
delightful shock, and- it took me ten minutes to realise
that the third figure of the amount was not a mistake.
(Mrs. Buster-Cross, flushing radiantly, imparts to the
wool and wine ladies the terms of the late Buster’s will.
Also, those of the still later Cross’s testament.)
Mrs. Foozler (in earnest rumble-toned conversation
with the Scoffsby girl) : It’s not the slightest use in the
Pastepotters trying to get into Society—for Society
won’t have them at any price
Miss Platto (interrupting): Yes, it would, only they
are not willing to pay the price. She can’t, or won’t,
give luncheons and dinners like Mrs. Newmoon, and her
husband won’t have an always-open billiard-room and
free whisky and wine.
Mrs. Foozler : I think that the block is that ante-
nuptial scandal, and
Mrs. Newmoon (to Miss Platto): Don’t say “No” to
that Huviard Amerieaine Mattie.
Miss Platto : I’ve said “ Yes ” twice to it.
Mrs. Marsaux (looking at Rachel Foozler): Ante-
nuptial scandal! Nothing of the kind ! Why, Sydney’s
too busy winking at the post-nuptial flirtings. It’s
Mrs. Pastepotter’s hats Society won’t tolerate. They' are
a cross between the helmet of Navarre and that millinery
calamity that Nellie Stewart wears in “ Sweet Nell.”
Mrs. Newmoon : It takes a tall, large, beautiful woman
like Mrs. Crosby to wear such hats.
(All eyes turn expectantly towards Miss Platto.)
Miss Platto (dropping her fork audibly and looking at
her hostess with angry eyes): “A beautiful woman like
Mrs. Crosby ! ” Belle, you used to be a girl of such refined
taste. Mrs. Crosby is tall and large, I grant you—so is a
giraffe and an elephant. With her snapping black eyes,
her strong black hair, her white face, thin painted mouth
and great, thick, round throat with those two awful lines
running around it, and
The Kittkslt Bride (interrupting): Du Maurier called
them “ the collar of Venus.”
Miss Platto (continuing) : She’s wise always to wear
black, for all she wants is a scarlet frock to look the
typical Frisker of Babylon.
(Everybody laughs, and Miss Platto clutches the menu
afresh. Mrs. Lambswool murmurs to Mrs. Buster-Cross
that Mattie Platto is privileged “ because she has sixty
years and sixty thousand.”)
Rene Lambswool (to the table): Have you seen The
Woman at Home for this—
lanthe: Of course we haven’t. No one has. The woman
is never at home.
Miss Platto (looking sourly at the Missuses present):
No, she’s too busy scuttling over to the other woman’s
house Bridge-playing, or racing on board warships and
liners, or pursuing the remains of old knapsacks at the
Barracks, looking for Platonic affairs.
Rene Lambswool : I mean the magazine with the por-
traits of Australian beauties in it?
Bouncie (jumping into the conversation) : Is any one
of us in it?
Rene Lambswool : No.
Chorus : Then what a collection of frights they must be !
Mrs. Buster-Cross : The new millinery is something
lovely. Yesterday Madame Lousiana gave me a show all
to myself, and I bought the heavenliest Gobbling blue
toque. When Madame took it out of its box 1 let a
screech of joy out of me and nearly kissed her——
Bouncie (shuddering, and aside to lanthe): What a
horribly narrow escape for Madame ! Why, if the kiss had
come off she’d have had to go to the wool-scourer’s.
Mrs. Newmoon (to Mrs. Buster-Cross): I wish you’d
worn it to-day, dear.
Mrs. Buster-Cross : Well, I would only I was afraid
some of youse might get one like it before I’d had a chanst
to wear it at the Saumarez-Smith’s Garden Party.
The Scoffsby Girl (aside to her neighbor): Isn’t the
Greasy Merino a whole Tivoli programme ?
Mrs. Foozler (a sugar factory in her voice): You
should have bought a river hat as well, Mrs. Buster-Cross.
One with brodene Anglaise and some bebe ribbon, and a
touch of a pastel shade. It would suit you.
Mrs. Buster-Cross : So I think, but Madame Lousiana
put me off it. “Mrs. Buster-Cross,” she says, “leave
river 'ats to them as suits them.” This is going to be a
dark woman’s season, and if there’s one thing I am it’s
dark ; so I’ll have a wide pick amongst the soft yellows
and wine shades and over-blown rose ones.
* * * *
They talk more millinery, and more about people, and a
little about the theatres.
» * * *
Three hours from the start of the smart luncheon the
blasie debutante, with the Lambswool beside her in the
motor, is whirring off the Newmoon premises.
Bouncie : Belle Newmoon has a perfect genius for
getting the wrong people together. 1 wonder if she
thinks tee enjoyed sitting there fora hundred years just
because lanthe has at last yarded a man ?
Rene Lambswool : Isn’t lanthe going to buy this gaso-
line cart ?
Bouncie : No. She gave me to understand that she and
her newly-acquired Billy would have to boil on tuppence
a week. llow I hate poor people ! (Yawns.)
Another enormous crowd, variously estimated
at between 60,000 and 80,000 people gathered
about Parramatta River to watch the Ladies’
Double Sculling Championship of N.S.W., con-
tested by the six crews that the previous
Wednesday’s preliminary racing had left in the
final. Originally 20 ladies formed 10 crews, and
the districts represented were North Sydney,
Abbotsford, Stockton (Newcastle), Glebe Point,
Manly (2), Mayfield (Newcastle), Port Hacking,
Port Macquarie, and Darlinghurst. The winning
pair were Mesdames Wood bridge and Hyde, of
Stockton, near Newcastle, who wore light blue
sashes and caps, and pulled marvellously for women.
I was told that they acquired their strength and
skill through pulling from Mosquito Island to
Newcastle every morning with the milk. The
Herbert girls, of Port Macquarie, in gold sashes
and caps, made a succession of brilliant
efforts to overtake the winners, and, had
they—-the winners—been ordinary women, would
have beaten them. But they were not ordi-
nary women—they were machines in skirts.
A fearsome row has broken out in Rose Bay
women’s golfing circles ! The committee of the
R. Club blackballed a nice girl, whose grand-
fathers wore evening dress, and whose grand-
mothers wore their clothes cut low after sunset,
what time the committee’s grandpas were going
about in shirt-sleeves and eating with their
knives. The only reason for the pilling was,
“We don’t know her.” Which is a rash and
insufficient sort of reason, seeing that the club
isn’t personally acquainted with the Czar or the
Shah of Persia.
The trousseau talk of the hour wanders in
circles around the bridal array of Miss Muriel
Marks, who marries Dr. Watson next month.
Miss Esme Sly, one of the legal family of that
name, was voted belle of the University Sports’
Club ball. She belled in cornflower blue chiffon
and silver.
Two things that will stand out—or up, like
Kosciusko—in the memory of those who attended
the reception to Dolores at Town Hall were (1)
the Hannibal-like generalship of Mr. Southwell
in organising and leading to the Guest’s hand-
clasp over three thousand excited women, and
(2) the emphasis of the Dolores kiss. Hannibal
S. brought in the forces five deep, and when
Dolores saw a face that belonged to a friend she
kissed it, forte. A rhapsody in B major is the
Dolores salute. “Your name, please?” asked
Hannibal of a lady awaiting presentation. “I
didn’t speak,” was the surprised reply. Another
to whom the same query was put gave him the
Polar eye and remarked, “I haven’t been intro-
duced to you.” Dolores is the most fascinating
feminine musical personality that has struck Aus-
tralia, within the recollection of anybody alive
or only moderately dead, but she has no
more taste in frocks than a rock-cod. She
turned up at the Ella Caspers concert
in a rig reminiscent of Maggie Papakura leading
the tourist about Rotorua and taking long, wild
leaps over boiling springs. She spoke the golden
word about the little contralto—" Genius.” Pos-
sibly there wasn’t a dissentient opinion in the
audience. The girl has a beautiful voice, and
brains. Her “Abide With Me” dropped note
by note a benediction, and seemed to exhale
purity and peace.
If that liner-load of women that is coming to
Australia under the wing of the Immigration
League to marry Superfluous Man—that isn’t the
ostensible reason, but not even the affidavits of a
car-load of angels would convince me that it isn’t
the true one—should hear that from the Randwick
Bachelors’ Dance last week 30 nice girls went home
early because there was no possibility of their getting
partners, it—the liner-load—may cancel its col-
lective passage. The bachelors of Randwiek are
clearly road-metalled in the matter of feeling. A
steam-roller could roll over the most delicate
blossom of sentiment in their composition, and
the only result would be to cripple the machine
through it rebounding off the blossom. They
can do worse than live in single wickedness —and
they did it when they so heartlessly under-manned
their ball.
Actor William Collier left not many personal
regrets behind. His manner was cold and for-
bidding. With his company he was always top
dog, and the only dog. No one else was allowed
a ray of the limelight. At his farewell night in
Melbourne, the ladies of the co. weren’t allowed
to receive over the footlights the flowers sent to
them by admirers of their art. But that didn’t
prevent the actor man himself, on his last night in
Sydney, taking a gift across the footlights. The
gift was a puppy, and it wasn’t meant sarcastic
either, though it might have been.
Just died, the widow of J. B. Rundle, M.L.C.,
a well-known figure out Potts Point and Elizabeth
Bay way. The deceased lady met her death in a
peculiar fashion. It had been her custom for a
long time to patronise a certain George-street
shop. Going thither, as usual, her coachman was
blocked by other vehicles, and had to draw up a
door or two away. The poor old lady, not noticing
that she was at the wrong door, walked straight
into a flight of steps leading to a basement, and
fell to the bottom.
Wonder if we shall have the new eye-shade in
Australia by the time the many Spring meetings
are in full neigh ? A woman invented it, and
called it “The Maisette,” and it has caught on
abroad as a preventive of sun headache and eye-
screwing. The Maisette is a bar of tortoise-shell
or gold, lined with green silk and mounted on a
folding stick. When you wish to look at the
flannelled fool at the wicket, or the bogged oaf at
the goal, or watch your horse chasing the field
before it, you rest the bar against your forehead,
and the great natural laws which govern the uni-
verse do the rest.
Artist Percy Spence has set up in London as a
painter of portraits. Two hours in accomplish-
ment and ten guineas. He did several water-
color portraits of pretty women whilst here in that
time, and at that rate ; but, though the pictures
were beautifully worked up as regards hair and
dress accessories,, the friend of the original of the
portrait in some cases would exclaim at first glance
“Who’s that?” His tendency was to idealise
the faces—-to make them all perfect ovals.
The Players, so long regarded as Sydney’s
tip-top amateur combination, will have to look to
their laurels, judging by the way the Sydney
Muffs played “The Amateur Burglar” and “The
New Boy” at Sydney Criterion Theatre in aid-of
the United Dental Hospital, which will serve the
double purpose of giving students experience and
fixing up the teeth of those who are too poor to
pay for their treatment. The versatile. Donald
Smith and energetic Stanley McKay practically
ran the show, and the Muffs played both
pieces in a manner that did them proud. In “ The
New Boy ” the company was quite at home in an
atmosphere of rollicking humor ; the Muffs
appear to be a genial, pleasure-loving crowd. The
two women parts were excellently done, Mrs.
Rennick being dressed and played admirably by
Miss Vera Wallis, while the part of Nancy Roach
was well filled by Miss Maud Crothers. Miss
Wallis’s dresses were beautiful, and the name of
the builder thereof would be a secret worth
knowing.
My Brisbane correspondent writes
The engagement is announced here of Miss Edith
Griffith, daughter of the Chief Justice of Australia, to
Mr. Doyle, of station fame, and well endowed.
Brisbane is filling up for the Show, and by every train
arriving from the West there tumbles forth a crowd of
country cousins—pa, ma, the quiver (very) full, and
bundles.
At the recent Naval and Military Ball, where their
Exes. Chelmsford, the Admiral and Lady Fawkes, bonny
Miss Du Cane, pretty Mrs. Braithwaite, and a host of
minor stars shone over the assembled throng-, the most des-
perate yet unsuccessful efforts were made to put the
official set through without mistake. Two aides, Bertram
Brooke and the Admiral’s own, were stationed close by, and
as the opening bars were played they whispered detailed
explanations to their respective chiefs. But, alas ! The
outer and inner chain was too much for them, and, after
two or three frantic dives into the struggling mass of
spurs and flounces, these would-be marshals just leant
against the wall and subsided into hopeless laughter.
They had to do that or else weep.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis, and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
»ff, it kills ; the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss. 6d.
“ Tonic,” Central Chambers, 77Swanston St.,-Melbourne.*
I
Sr
.HIELDS
jyjORE than one Smart and Effective Costume has been
ruined by the use of Poor Dress Preservers. A sure
way to avoid such a disaster is to use only KLEINERT'S.
A guarantee against damage with every pair.
roRiHETCVNtciJNLG
SEASON
4
v
*
zs
I
r>
m
o
§
A
VC
rv
12>S
Cons
v/fd*ci
e:
Ask For
2vV«3
to Mis Majesty King Edward VII.
r
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton's Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (Sb Co.
Lombard Chambers,
107 Pitt Street. SYDNEY
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 7, 1906.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The fattest charmer in this capital is called
“Babs.” An older battler is playfully labelled
“Babe,” and the very large, plump, though quick-
witted wife, of a prominent Federalist answers to
the name of “ Tiny.” There’s one Society chick
front-named “Dove,” and another “Bee.” After
all these, plain Nora Power—the blunt label of
the prettiest Power among them all—strikes one
as wholesome and sane.
Countess Linlithgow has a frank horror of this
‘roo-land. Some drifter from these parts asked
the chilly dame whether she had seen a certain
event chronicled in the Australian papers. “No,”
said the countess, coldly, tightening her lips; “I
never wish to see an Australian paper as long as I
live.” (Her taste, they say, when out here, was
the Pink TJn.)
The humors of the Divorce Court occasionally
obtrude. A distressed plaintiff in a suit told the
Bench, the other day, that her particular brute
was the most evil-tempered man “she had ever
lived with.” Perhaps she didn’t exactly mean
that. If she did, it was an awkward place to own
to a plurality of pasts. By the way, it’s unusual
for the much-loved woman to talk Man. It’s the
spinster who doesn’t know him, and the baffled
dame who married him and still doesn’t under-
stand him, who talk, year in and year out, of him
and his villainies and weaknesses and vices and
sins.! Hear an unloved Christian Endeavorer on
the sins alone !
A well-meaning bachelor, of giddy habits, sent
a bride a box of light-colored silk stockings as a
souvenir, the other day. They were the latest
thing from Paris, but the ’groom objected so vio-
lently that the girl posted the scented packet
back, with a request for a clock or a cruet (if he
would send something). She delicately intimated
that she desired a souvenir which would last, and
which the donor could view for himself now and
then. So he forwarded a silver box of powder—
it was evidently the only feeble revenge he could
think of.
Justice Cussen is slowly but surely being drawn
from fireside reveries into the glitter of Vanity
Fair. His dame is being-drawn likewise. At a
recent hop she mothered 32 fledgelings. Thirty-
two ! And she scouted for them with any amount of
red-hot zeal. Men fled from her appealing eye.
Never did a duenna fight so desperately for her
charges. “ I must introduce you to my girls,” she
told every male she could lasso. Escape being
impossible, he turned to face the flock, expecting
three at the most. Thirty-two girleens smiled
upon him. In a dazed state ho saw 32 flapping
programmes. Ih a nightmare he felt 64 eager
eyes watching him. And Mrs. Cussen has the
humor to laugh now at the awful experiences of
her victims.
One satisfactory opinion from a wanderer,
gathering the roses while she may in the Thames
vicinity, is to the effect that Australian frockers
show up well in juxtaposition to the English
misses. It came as a surprise' to this frill devotee,
who had felt qualms at appearing at an Anglo-
Australian affair of much lustre, to find that she
and dozens of other ’Roo-landers were quite in
the picture, and that charmers like Miss Ruby
Madden, Miss Muriel Cumming, Miss Langtree,
Mrs. : H. Levy, and the Misses Anderson (of
Sydney) show with distinction against a back-
ground of limp and bony Londoners. The more
blue-blooded the Vere de Vere, the bonier she is.
Fat is a crime in the eyes of the splinter of
nobility. Of course a fat monarch is another
matter. There is a majesty that doth hedge
the avoirdupois of Royal Edward.
One sees the name of Mr. George Armstrong
constantly in the lists of “those present” in the
Big Smoke files. Melba’s son takes kindly to the
tempestuous pettings of his mama. Report says
that no one has a hope of the Diva’s enthusiastic
attention now that son George is housed with
her. What a pity, in a way, it’s not a Georgina,
to wallow in feminine luxuries, and sample a
season in the great axle of the universe under the
wing of the first canary in the world. After all,
a youth can only be gay to satiety. He gets no
excessive satisfaction out of the pinking of his
nails, the set of his coat-tails, the size of his shoe,
the shape of his eyebrow, and the dozen and one
effects the second sex joys in. It’s a good thing
to be feminine and deliciously foolish over the
quality of one’s hanky, and even smaller details.
A man can never know to the full the raptures to
be got out of toilette effects.
The Willie Manifolds are enjoying a great time
in London. In a word the sporting pair are going
big. The dame is an energetic social battler with
a cheery black eye and a figure sufficiently cor-
setted to save it from being buxom. The polo
champion himself is a typical socially-indifferent
squatter who is content, when away from the
sheep-run, to give his mate the reins and to be
quite docile. He’ll go to a frilly shivoo with the
patient look of an uncomplaining ox, but there his
social activity ends. He can’t be induced to
flutter. As well expect a harvesting machine to
two-step over the crops. The one Manifold chick
en tour will be given all the shining hours that a
devoted, wealthy and knowing rnommer can fit
into a season.
A pair of Bananalanders, also going big in the
Mecca of ambitious wanderers, are the Cunliffes.
They have taken the Countess of Something’s
house in Surrey, and go a-motoring in the most
up-to-date goggles and things. Of course, the
machine of the hour has a new smell. If yours
has an old out-of-date smell, there is more disgrace
on your head than if you had slain an inefficient
cook or bolted with your neighbor’s wife.
Mrs. Harry Levy acquaints her sister —Mrs. I.
Isaacs—with bright occurrences in Britain. The
Sydney charmer (I hear from other sources) has
been haunting Henley o’ Sundays, when myriads
of the gayest pole and punt upon the river. Also,
she has been testing the splendors of Ascot, and
comparing the glories of its meetings with Rand-
wick and Flemington Cup rallies, where the stage
management, at least, is more effective.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Brookes are due from
their big jaunt shortly. Toorak will be glad to
get the pretty trifler back again. Just at present
the prevalence of To-let signs among the Man-
sions of the Blest has a depressing effect upon the
stay-at-homes. Most eyes are mentally turned
on the distant capital, where the absentees spend
their good Australian money. No one is enter-
taining here. Nothing is doing. Half the
fashionables prepare for the 1907 gad, and the
other half sink their sorrows in Bridge.
An unconventional personage of great cash
tonnage appeared at a swagger function recently.
As he hadn’t sacrificed to the God of Graces (but
rather otherwise) for some time, a she-acquaint-
ance twitted him on his attendance this day.
“Well, I haven’t deserted respectable society
altogether,” he assured her. And he hasn’t.
More than that, Toorak, which pretends to be so
shocked at his unorthodox way of life, swarmed
round him like so many hungry bees.
The ambitious dame of one seasoned Federalist
is crowding out her husband’s library with books
on etiquette. Whether she should leave one
pasteboard or two after the party, or go in bereave-
ment rig to make a visit of sympathy, or use her
kerchief before or after meals, or manipulate an
orange with a small pick and shovel or a pair of
fingers, is the worry of her stylish hour. In vain
her loving spouse emits a grunt and says
“Bunkum!” to all her cares concerning these
punctilious points. Dishonor would appear th
this socially-yearning soul better than a slip in
etiquette. So she gathers together all the avail-
able books of polite conduct and correct behavior,
and hustles out philosophy and the poets from the
library shelves. The maids of the house, who
suffer by reason of the jam and the French
mustard being locked away, relate the story to
other Mary Anns, and so it circulates briskly.
Now the mischievous are looking for an excuse to
set the etiquette fiend tripping.
An awfully important skating expert is at pre-
sent agitating the mind and pulse of the Glacia-
rium dears. He’s fresh from the ice at Prince’s
Court, and returns thither in a month or two.
Professor Chambers has a graceful figure, and all
the appearance—with more humanity thrown in
—of ex-Private Secretary Fitzpatrick. His voice
has been cultivated up to a noble pitch, owing to
his pilotage o’er the ice of England’s fair aris-
tocracy. The local girl is paying all her pin and
powder money away to go a-glide with him.
Some superior literary extracts :
She drew his throat down and fitted her flower-mouth
to the sunburnt hollow.
He felt the necessity to grip on to something stronger
than himself.
“ You small sweet fool! ” he said, his voice so deep and
tender that it thrilled all through her.
These are from a book of the hour which I picked
up idly in a South Yarra drawing-room the other
day. It bore the name of the fashionable library
of Collins-street. lam told there’s a rush for it,
some passages being so devilled as to stimulate
the most blase feminine taste. Here is another
bit:—
And the moonlight was in her eyes, and the scent of
lavender in his blood, so he kissed her again on her bare
burning lips, his own on fire ; kissed her on her eyes, her
chin, her threat; kissed her till
No, the excitement is too great. One thing, the
chin-kiss has a smack of novelty. The chin has
been neglected. That feature (unless it has a
dimple) has so far passed amorous notice. But
“bare lips” suggest a query. Does the sex
generally wear clothes on its mouth ?
A Glaciarium carnival shortly calls for motley
wear and ornate rigs and fantastic disguises, and
the skittish who are versed in ice frolics are falling
over themselves in anticipation of the show.
Two dozen Brighton charmers are tired of wait-
ing for something festive or otherwise to happen ;
so they take matters into their own hands and
start ahead with a hop, to which they have asked
every eligible in the neighborhood, and every
good-looking Johnnie in this city.
Mrs. Otto Wunderlich and her medico-spouse
have been abiding at Menzies. The young Syd-
ney dame has a continental style of frocking that
captures the Melbourne eye. One day she
stepped forth in a gay crimson garb with lively
white plumes nodding from her Parisian hat.
Another time she knocked the Menzies dwellers
and subsequently the Glaciarium crowd with a
silver grey rig, fitting so closely that she seemed
to have been melted and poured into it out of a
jug, and a marvellous top-piece a-droop over a
classic profile and secured with a chin-scarf of
grey chiffon. No feminine has successfully worn
her chin in,a chiffon sling for years, but the Har-
bor charmer has a nose of such beauty that any
style of millinery invented would agree with it.
The doctor himself went a-skating regularly, and
the picturesque dame saw that no harm came to
him.
Many rushed to view the £lOO lace dress
flaunted by Mrs. R. G. Knowles. One day in the
green-room I counted fifteen females prying into
the beauties of the St. Petersburg mesh. The
owner, by the way, is a bright, knowing, cultured
dazzler. The French residents here went crazy
over her perfect Parisian accent and her know-
ledge of French literature. Apart from that, Mrs.
Knowles is the originator of the audacious show.
She urged R. G. to it and so helps him on to a
fortune.
Mrs. Ross-Soden distributes her Tyson wealth
lavishly. The other night the Cream rallied to
a call and disported gaily in the profusely-lighted
hall. (The dweller likes her mansion referred
to as “The Hall.”) Music and supper on a
banquet scale made the evening go swiftly.
Two of the most uncommonly pretty and chic
foreigners in this city are off to Sydney to startle
that capital with a beauty boudoir on an extensive
and expensive scale.
The student who leaves a girl behind him when
he goes on the grand gad is a rare specimen of the
first sex if he remains true to her for any length
of time. He almost always deserts. There
has been a recent instance of a pair tearing them-
selves apart on the ocean-liner —he to take a sad
countenance to Europe ; she to return home and
to mourn as David for his last girl. A big, bright
ring was the outward seal of their engaged
affections. It reminded other men that the girl
was booked. Travel, however, cleared the clouds
from his brow, and the Big Smoke turned him
suddenly gay. He was so lost to the sense of
decency that he used to pour his perfidious soul
out to the waiting Griselda in ecstasies over the
other girl. Then there were two sirens in his
ken. Then three, over whom he enthused with a
full, free and unthinking heart. At this stage
the fiancee checked his flow of eloquence, and re-
turned the gold circle.
Another Toorak warbler gets a help to Europe,
Mr. Charles Rose, the tuneful serenader who has
been hampered in his career from the start by a
pane in his eye. This glass is dropped in moments
of song, but it obstructs his countenance at other
times and worries the public. It also leads the
misguided artist to make grimaces in extracting
the top C, and this, too, is a worry to the onlooker.
A woman stalked down Bourke-street, the other
Saturday morning, tenderly carrying a small dog
of nondescript breed. Several tufts of the
quadruped’s hair were carefully done up in curling
pins:—evidently in preparation for some important
engagement later in the day.
Mrs. Oswald Watt is again in this city. The
charmer has thinned and lost some of her bloom
in Sydney.
Two smart sisters have open and public squabbles
over their gewgaws and such trifles, and become
enraged if one finds t’other coiling her tresses in
an imitative fashion. One will not stand being
copied by t’other. That’sdeplorable, and droll. But
there’s a more pathetic instance of sister rivalry
in the case of a specimen of the brute sex trans-
ferring his affections from one to t'other. He had
plighted his troth to the first angel befqre he met
tlie second. When he did encounter the cherub,
he immediately plighted some more, and the
spurned one is slowly starving herself to death,
while the inother of the rivals mingles salt tears
with her prayers that the brute may slip fatally
on a banana-skin and leave the family alone.
Sister-rivalry is a horrible thing.
Charles Rose managed—off his own bat—to
score a record attendance at his off-to-Europe
concert on Thursday. The serenader always had
the sympathy of the Tooraketty set, and for once
that set was as good as it promised. The show
resulted in the dressiest concert gathering since
the Melba time. Mrs. Jack Fisken, with a bush-
fire garb of vivid flashes, struck tlie boldest chord.
Miss Arrnytage was keyed (in a chiffon sense) up
to ball-room magnificence. The Bowes-Kelly
contingent and hosts of the most moneyed clans
sported raiment the like of which has never been
flourished in the Masonic Hall before—that is, for
a mere bill of strum and song.
The farewell Rose concert is given out solemnly
to be his last for many a songful season. The
story goes that Charles is bidden Bullwards to
clasp to his nervous bosom certain relatives of
classy and moneyed note. But the farewell show
is a movable feast and an abiding infliction. One
warbler in this city has farewelled and blubbered
between strains four or five times, and she still
goes briskly—or plumply, rather—on her way,
and looks good for a few more “ finals ” before
stepping aboard with the accumulated silver.
A reconciliation has been effected between an
estranged young couple, and their re-engagement
is announced. In the first place, the girl, who
was burdened with money, said Yes to Edwin at
her debutante hop. After the excitement of the
dance and the consequent congratulations had
died down, Angelina guessed she had rushed
things overmuch. So she returned the gold band
of hope to Edwin. After a season and a half of
pirouetting and several colds contracted by sitting
in the draughts for bijl-and-cooing purposes,
Angelina decided that the “yes’’ murmured
softly to her Edwin at the debutante hop was not
a mistaken monosyllable, and, the young man
being adjacent, negotiations were re-opened. Now
Edwin is rushing the heiress into matrimony 6re
she can change her mind once again.
My Adelaide correspondent writes
The Rymill-Blue marriage is billed to make a society
earthquake in Tortoise Town on September 25th. The
bridal raiment is to be of the gossamery chiffony
Parisian kind that makes you think the girl will be visible
through it, but she never is, and the trousseau, as a whole,
will be a never-to-be-forgotten joy. Adelaide’s girly ele-
ment will turn out in full force to catch a glimpse of the
show. Bride and groomlet will dwell somewhere between
Woodville and Seaton, an uninspiring neighborhood that
possesses only one attraction —it is near the golf links.
Both are wild golfers, and himself is secretary of the club.
So he will be able to keep an eye on the premises, and
see that nobody steals away the clubhouse, or the trees,
or anything.
The “just returned from Europe ” state seems to be a
permanent one with the local product that has once
learned to make a costly noise in furrin parts. Notice
(8., 26/7/’O6) that Miss Elsie Hamilton, the Adelaide
pianist, has “ just returned from study in Europe.”
May I be permitted to point out, with all due difference
—I mean deference—to Miss Tryphena that the damsel
was in exactly the same interesting position at least two
years ago. But that was in Adelaide. She may move on
to the Harbor in another two years, and be still just re-
turned from Europe. Anyway, it’s a good old advertise-
ment gag. Reminds me of the warbler who wanted to
make some cash. She had been living in another State
for some years, so she hastened back to her birth-place,
looked out some stray relatives, and got them to boom
her; and gave it out that she was going to Europe to
study. Her State arose and did its duty nobly, and she
gave a concert that brought in £lOO. Then she went
back to the parental dwelling, and there she remains.
That’s nearly two years ago, but never a sign of her has
poor old Europe seen ; and its disappointment in this
matter is the chief cause of the disturbances in Russia
and other troubles.
Another Tortoise Town warbler has been gathering in
laurels and bay-leaves in the Fog Village. Ethel Hancke,
studying at the Royal College of Music, London, has just
gained the Anne Lloyd Exhibition for her top note
against all comers. The damsel has a fine voice, and there
are plenty of parental shekels behind her, so she ought
to do well. She held a scholarship at the Elder Conserva-
torium (Adelaide) for three years before going Fogwards.
Also, she was engaged to warble at the State concert
when the Yorks (afterwards the YValeses) were starring in
these parts ; and most of Adelaide’s warbling profession
was very annoyed about it. The idea of allowing a mere
amateur to yodel to a York or wail to a Wales was said by
some to be adjacent to disloyalty. But the Yorks heard
her and survived.
Said that one Government House official was much
annoyed, because when walking down the street the
police did not salute him. A complaint to this effect was
sent to the Commissioner of Police, and now all the
Johns have been presented with photos, of this especial
flunkey so that they may touch their hats to the Truly
Great Man. A salute order, with photo, attached, has
been issued to the beadles at the Post Office, Town Hall
and other Government offices, so the outraged gentleman
will have a sufficient supply of grovel, abasement and
salaam in future.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions ; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar ! In times gone-by
such foolish methods were excusable ; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest . Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing remedy for ali
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &c., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladies are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d.
and 6s. per pot.*
T he demand for ballet-training is on the in-
crease. The youngster hereabouts is not content
graduate for the ballet. So Miss Florence Green,
w h o has rather set a severe countenance
against stage gyrations, now has to cave
j n and yield to the general demand
f or ballet capers. The announcement that she
was a bout to train toes for footlight purposes has
resulted in a rush of stage-aspiring youngsters,
The sudden success of Carrie Moore in Bulltown
Qne Q f tbe causes of this youthful craving.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in ttie city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Desighs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
Walter bradley and go.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at i/~, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—•
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i
Pts
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to"
Fr«d. Hagei>> Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
This Elastic Truss—
Clastic |
Truss--
Single, 157-
Double, 20/-
is the acmeof comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
tlie discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Bent, in moving the second reading of the
new Vic. Licensing Bill, mentioned a characteris-
tic clause in the political gospel of Duncan
Gillies. Seems that Duncan long ago warned him
“never to touch a Licensing Bill or a tariff.”
The wisdom of the Tory place-hunter lay in his
determination to have nothing to do with
meashres calculated to touch the pocket of the
fatman importer or the bloated beer-trader.
THE SHIP INDUSTRY. IN DISTRESS.—
THE INADEQUATE LIGUT.
“ I have no hesitation in saying that I and
my party are out for the abolition of the Legisla-
tive Council.”— Commendable statement by Labor-
leader Archibald, of s.A.
Formal question and answer regarding the
Butter Commissioirput in Victorian Parliament
Was Mr. Croker paid for his services ?
Mr. Croker was paid.
Our oath ! How could Mr. Croker buy his corsets
if he were not paid ?
Sydney Telegraph has had a new line
over its Foreign-trade and other leaders lately—
“ Daily Telegraph Stories.” That puts it
mildly, of course ; still, it shows some perception
of the position.
“ G. H. Reid,” complains a Queenslander,
“is too artful a campaigner. We’d have given
him a warm time at his meetings, have greeted
him for the clown that he is, but he always had
his wife and daughter;there! We had to be de-
cently civil to him for their sakes.”
The Federal penny post represents a con-
cession to the richer classes—the mercantile com-
munity especially— at the expense of the general
taxpayer, which should not be made until the
financial situation is clearer.
Apparently the solitary decision arrived
at by the N.S. W. Government, so far, on Justice
Owen’s Land Scandals report is that Under-
Sec. MacFarlane shall not return to his billet in
the Lands. Robert McDonald, one of the
Western Lands Commissioners, is at present
“doubling"’ the two parts. Thus does Mac
follow on the heels of Mac.
Arthur Griffith, in N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment, revives his Bill to assure to the widow and
children of a testator maintenance out of his
estate. A living man’s property must maintain
his wife and children; it is absurd, as well as
unjust, that a dead man’s estate should be relieved
of that liability if he is hunks enough to will all
his property away from his family.
The gabble on Rananaland’s Address-in-
Reply fizzled out soon enough to make it almost
a record for brevity. Last year the farce ran into
five or six weeks; this year it lasted two days—
two wasted days. Hungry Forsyth was mainly
responsible for showing up the ridiculousness of
the whole business. For four hours he insisted on
saying that the present prosperity of Queensland
was due to Queensland being prosperous ; and
after he had repeated that in 217 variations, the
House went out to yarn ; so when the Speaker put
the question there was no response, and the farce
was over. Even Forsyth has his uses, impossible
as it might appear.
Premier Kidston’s land monopoly tax pro-
posal for Bananaland is so painfully modest that
it, is hard to conceive any serious opposition—
except on the ground of its painful modesty. It
is only to apply to estates required for closer
settlement; and the money thus raised is to be
handed to the shire councils for road construction
through subdivided areas. Some members of
the old Morganite party got such a fright from
their constituents last year, after their support
of the Land Monopoly Tax Bill, that Kidston
has decided to go slow; and his present
scheme is to show the farmers that the tax won’t
touch them, but only the men who are blocking
the farmers. As an object-lesson in the effect of
a tax to make land available for the farmers, even
this poor little measure ought to be helpful in a
poor little way.
Vic. M.L.A. Outtrim re-introduces his
slaughtered innocent of last session—the Juvenile
Smoking Prevention Bill, which prohibits the
selling, giving or supplying of tobacco in any
form to children under 16. It is a simple enough
measure, and the only persons at all likely to
oppose it won’t have a vote for some years, and
shouldn’t be considered even if they had ; where-
fore it is a fearsome commentary on the ways of
legislation that a Bill of this sort should have to
come before Parliament three or four times before
it is passed.
The suggestion that the Commonwealth
should appoint its own J’s.P. is likely to bear
fruit. Before, however, any official
step is taken, the form and feature of
the creature should be determined. If
he is to be the State J.P. invested
with Federal power, he will be a
worse affliction than he now is. The
freak will simply have a wider
sphere, and be more bumptious and
insufferable. If the Commonwealth
makes its own appointments, but
follows State precedent in its methods,
the Australian J.P. and the State
J.P. will be an ignoble pair of
brothers. The only way to avoid ex-
tending the sphere of the fraud and
fool, or creating a new batch of frauds
and fools, is for the Australian Par-
liament to deliberately fix the duties
the persons are to perform and
designate the kind of men suited to
discharge the duties. If the reason
for appointing J’s.P. be that they
may witness signatures in out-of-the-
way places, then men appointed for
that purpose should have no authority
to go on the Bench. And any mem-
ber of the Federal Parliament who
solicits the Government to appoint
his creature to a Federal J.P.-ship
should be named (disrespectfully) by
the Speaker.
“If a man is willing to work,
and cannot find employment, then
the State should either have to find
him work or give him sufficent money
to enable his wife and children to
live. That sounds like revolution, I
know, but if you think it out care-
fully, I would like to know what
Christian argument you can bring
against it.”— Swinburne, Vic. Minister for Water
Supply.
Though Australia has only a theoretical
interest in the question of the establishment of an
Irish Parliament, about which question two Irish
envoys are now holding forth in this country, it
is probably safe to say that three-fourths of the
Australian people have sympathies in that direc-
tion. As things stand now, it looks as if not only
Ireland, but England and Scotland also, must soon
have local Parliaments; the great, unwieldy
Legislature at Westminister is bogged in a mul-
titude of details, and, as one of its own members
recently remarked with bitterness, the old, worn-
out, overworked machine is only fit for the scrap-
heap. And it is certainly time that Ireland had
a chance to try if, as regards some of' the details
of government, it can’t do better for itself than
England has done for it. England has put up in
Ireland this amazing record, that it has made it
the one white man’s country on earth that doesn’t
seem worth living in. It is the only white man’s
country where a vast and continuous process of
depopulation is going on, and, if that result is
anything to go by, British rule in Ireland is worse
than Russian rule in Poland, or Spanish domin-
ance in Cuba. And, if English rule in Ireland
should not be judged by its capacity for making
the country a desert, it is up to England to
explain what it should be judged by.
SETTLED!
I am prepared to admit that Protection is the settled policy.— GKORGE REID.
AUSTRALIA: “ It is not properly settled yet, George."
GEORGE: “ Well , let me at it with that axe, and it soon will he.”
. New Customs and Excise duties on spirits
were brought to the Federal Parliament with a
sudden rush—to prevent the revenue being preju-
diced by clearances to avoid the higher duty.
They represent adequate—or nearly adequate—
Protection to the Australian spirit-distilling in-
dustry, and will, no doubt, very soon make the
general Australian nip a thing of local production.
The Government should deal gs courageously and
as promptly with the machinery section of the
Tariff Commission’s report—shortly to be pre-
sented.
“ Hamer’s ” complaint:—
After Bunker— l mean Bruntnell—had got in for Surry
Hills, on a small majority, a pleased individual came up
to me and said it was a great victory for Freetrade. He
said that the fact that Bruntnell was a “good” man and
a teetotaller make it a victory for Freetrade. He told
me that Protection was ruining the country, and asked
me to look at the unemployed and himself. So I looked
at himself. The man was wearing a suit of English cloth,
an American hat, American hoots and Brummagem
jewellery. He was smoking a Manila cigar, which he lit
with Japanese matches, and his tie was of Chinese silk.
He invited me to have a Scotch whisky or an English
beer to celebrate the approach of good times and the vic-
tory of Freetrade.
The Owe’Sullivan appeared in a new
guise last week as leader of a protest in the
TV XKT i. • ,1
JN.b.W. Parliament against the
changing over from the old to the
new Sydney railway-station on
Sunday—the most suitable of all
days, since the traffic is then
smallest and the danger least.
Perhaps the Owe’Sullivan was
concerned because an unobtrusive
Sunday opening would stand in
the way of an official blare, with
champagne and an Owe’Sullivan
oration. Perhaps he was only
making friends with the Mam-
mon of Holy Joeism in view of
the result of the Surry Hills elec-
tion. Whatever his object, it
was a poor sort of posturing for
a man who once tried to bulk
large in the Democratic crowd.
And it was well matched by
Joseph Carruthers’ attitude in
reply—a pitiful yes-no uttered in
the tone of a worm weeping on a
clod. The changing over from
one station to another must be done one day. To
give Sunday the honor might have minimised the
inconvenience and the danger to human life.
Sydney courts are becoming so choked
with libel actions, many of them mere advertise-
ments, that it would be a fair thing for Parliament
to charge so much a day for the use of the J udge
and the premises.
Iceberg Irvine, of Victoria, in his capacity
as a prospective Federal legislator, thinks the
election of Senators by the people should be
abolished and the matter entrusted to the State
Parliaments. Which is one of the reasons why
Iceberg Irvine is neither use nor ornament—only
a sloppy, melting, thawing, dripping circum-
stance.
From the Press gallery of the Reps. :
A large, fat figure entered the House of Representatives
last Thursday (August 1) and rolled slowly round the
seats with a round, gleaming piece of glass stuck in its
eye. It marched from man to man, shaking hands, and
talking in high, audible tones, and taking no notice of
anybody who happened to be speaking. It moved
heavily from the room, to be interviewed by a frenzied
Argus reporter. It came back to the chamber, to
create more local disturbance while other men
were speaking, and Knox, Joe Cook, and Dugald
Thomson gathered round ic lovingly. Pumpkin
Smith—alas !—was away, By-and-bye the huge, spheri-
cal figure rose, and began'to talk. It had refused
to listen to anybody else, but was insulted to find that no
quorum was present to hearken to its weighty words, so
it called for a quorum. Then it remarked (among other
things) that Australian legislation was a By-word among
the Civilised Nations; that we were tottering beside a
Precipice of Socialism; that the cry of “Australia for
the Australians ” was wicked and selfish ; that we had a
Mother Land; and that the Labor party' was a Tiger,
holding the Executioner’s Whip over the head of the
Ministry. By the time the massive, rotund Shape had
made three speeches, and had renewed these statements
in each speech, it was realised by all present that Reid
had returned for a day.
Sydney Evening News, after a brief spell
of comparatively liberal tendencies, has gone
back to its old parochial wallowings. Last week
it rose in an indignant leading article to denounce
the proposal of the Australian Government to
vote £50,000 for the encouragement of immigra-
tion as tending to destroy N.S.W.’s “identity ”
and place it in “fetters.” It is amazing in what
unlikely places theparochialistcan find “fetters”
lying about.
“Z.Z.”: I played the looker-on at the
recent Surry Hills (Sydney) contest, and feel sad.
Expected to hear some statesmanlike utterances
on finance, legislation, and administration.
Heard, instead, one candidate promise to have the
local tram-fare reduced to a penny. Another
exhibited a woman he had bailed out 26 times.
Another told the publicans he was out to give
them fits. Such were a few of the candidates’
claims to be elected. Among the crowd I heard
one candidate accused of writing for a sectarian
paper. A barracker stated his man was an Irish-
straliancatholic, while the other reptile was
backed by the Protestant mob. If the above is a
fair sample of State politics, I think we could do
without a State Parliament.
“ Tiger ” Inglis’ fierce attack on the
N'.S.W, “Reform” Government because of the
degradation to
which it has
bi ought Parlia-
ment was wildly
cheered at —of all
places—a _ Sydney
Commercial Tra-
vellers’ dinner. De-
form is thus
hooted in its very
citadel.
HOOPING THE HOOP.
AUSTRALIA: “Now, then, hoys, watch me knock
a hole in him!"
The shepherd roaming o’er the plain,
The stockman on his lonely run,
The teamster with his bullock wain,
The sportsman out with rod or gun,
The digger on gold-bearing reef—
While firm to duty’s call they stand—
For coughs and colds they find relief
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure at hand.*
An association has been formed in Mel-
bourne “ for the purpose of coping with municipal
Socialism.” That’s right. Let’s suggest a title—
“ The Society for Suppressing Sewers and Paved
Streets.”
To cure a cold in one day take Laxative
Bromo Quinine Tablets. All chemists refund the
money if it fails to cure. E. W. Grove’s signa-
ture is on each box. Is. lid.*
NOT ENTIRELY INCORRECT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. G. If. Reid denies that he has any idea of bringing
pauper labor into Australia, and says the statement is e
slander.
Let’s consider the position
For a moment, Mr. Reid !
You’re an agile politician—
That is cheerfully ai reed ;
Yet one thinks, with hesitation,
But with total disrespect,
This offensive allegation
Is not wholly incorrect.
: Not that you’d bring pauper labor
To Australia, not at all 1
If you drummed upon that tabor
Who would hearken to the call ?
One must grant that such a slander
Is, as stated, foul and mean ;
But, one asks, in simple candor,
What your policy has been ?
Oh, we grant you, portly neighbor,
That you are most wrongly charged
With a wish to import labor !
The indictment is enlarged !
For your policy has ever
(Has it not, now ?—Yes or No)
Been a strenuous endeavor
To enrich the foreign foe !
Though you’d not bring pauper labor
(That’s too foolish to discuss),
You’ve a policy, my neighbor,
1 ‘ ZNT ON PAUPERISING US !
v ,iich is why, with hesitation,
Yet with perfect disrespect,
I submit the allegation
Is not wholly incorrect!
N.S. W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Way back Ip tfec early Fifties—’
Ip fact ip *53
CALL or
WRITE for
CATALOGUES
*£s£*.They’re FREE.
PALING’S h
| €STRBLISH€P apd It’s BUS Now.
We have steadily grown to be
TN€ • LARGEST • MUSIC • STORE »1H» AUSTRALASIA.
You are not limited to PIANOS and ORGANS only,
You can purchase as well Cheaper and Better,
Eygry Kpowp MOskal IpStrOipcpt.
PALING’S Tiipe Paynjcot Systefi} makes buying CaSy. All Goods SOaraptccd and
Sold at LoWgSt Prices.
W. N. PALING * C°~ L TO 338
6EOR6E STREET,
SYDNEY
Brisbane
Newcastle
READ THIS “AD."
RIGHT THROUGH!
We are offering you some
BIG VALUE SPECIALS 111
Complete Bound Volumes “ Windsor ”or “ Cassell’s ” Magazine.
Large, handsome books, containing hundreds of bright stories, tales and articles by most
popular modern writers. Magnificently,illustrated throughout. Ordinary price, 7s fid.
Special Offer, 2s 6d; Post Free, Is extra.
America’s Smartest and BrightestTHE CENTURY.”
Superbly illustrated throughout. Crammed with brilliant stories and articles by
America’s most famous writers. This is an offer of a 15s volume for 2s 6d;
Post free, Is extra.
Huge Bound Volumes of “ WORK.”
The book for the handy man AT HOME. Illustrated with thousands of working
drawings and plans. “ There is not a person of ordinary intelligence who could not learn
from ‘ Work ’ how to make a living.” Each volume contains many thousands of valuable
practical receipts on an enormous range of subjects. Special Offer, 4s per volume,
Post free.
SPECIAL CHEAP EDITION JUST OUT-
** SEAFARERS,” by Chas. Websdale.
Post free, Is 2d.
NEW BOOKS NOW HAVING A BIG SALE.
Paper Edition, 2s lOd; Cloth, 4s. Post Free.
By George Ohnet
By Cyrus Townsend Brady
By Bart. Kennedy
By Baroness Yon Hutten
By Hermann Sudermann
By Henry Wallace Phillips
By H. K. Bloxham
The Poison Dealer
The Patriots
A Tramp Camp
He and Hecuba ..
The Undying Past
Plain Mary Smith (A romance of Red Saunders)
On The Fringe of the Never-Never
(Cloth edition, only 2s. lOd. post free)
By Joseph Hocking
By S. R. Crockett
The Woman of Babylon
Kid McGhie
Cattle Brands (A Collection of Western Camp Fire
Stories)
The Prey of the Strongest
By Wit of Woman
The Scarlet Empire '
Pictures From the Balkans
Giant Circumstance
Heart’s Desire
Lucy of the Stars
These Books are in great demand, and unless you order
early you have no show of securing first suppliesm
By Andy Adams
By Morley Roberts
By A. W. Marchmont
By David M. Parry
By John Foster Fraser
By John Oxenham
By Emerson Hough
By Frederick Palmer
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
476 George St.
(Opposite Q.V.
Markets),
Sydney.
Patent Tuiencent
■ ■■—■■—— .
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
ALSO,
60 Candle Power
for Less than
lOne Farthing per
Hour with Ordi-
nary Kerosene*
STAND LAMPS
Complete
from . .
18/6 EACH.
sduieU 6ui6ue|| f jajjoejJ
BURNER
Complete
12/6
wai Rt
Existing Fonts.
f
Welshach
Incandescent
Acetylene
Gas Burners
Brilliant Light
of 100 Candle
Power*
5/-
Complete
By using these
Incandescent
Burners, c o*n-
sumption of
Acetylene Gas
will be reduced
by half and your
light doubled.
Acetylene Gas
Fittings and
Lamps.
K'm
SI
US
I
j
DORS YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO:-
WELSBACN LI <3NT CO
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Perry Bros., Brisbane.
48 Victoria St., Wellington, N.Z.
Harold Colton & Co., Adelaide.
J* M, Ferguson, Ltd,, Perth, W*A,


“M OTA ” brand
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit,
Highest Grade np T n fl
American . . . I C I llwn
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
Iu stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. ItESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbewery and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Veterans’ Race on Parramatta River
on Saturday' was an event that no State save N.S.W.
could have put on exhibition—three world champions,
one of them unbeaten ; together with five others of the
world’s very best, who onl.v missed the premiership of the
planet by’ a hair’s breadth, and beat all comers till the
world-champion himself put them down, and did it with
difficulty'. The afternoon was lovely’, and the course,
from Abbotsford to Mortlake picnic grounds, was like a
sheet of glass. Sydney' turned out en masse to see its old-
time mighty' scullers in their last great race of one-and-a-
half miles,* and took an enthusiastic farewell when
the navy’ blue jerse.v of Peter Kemp led
the way home, with * the blue and white of
Elias Laycock behind, and the black and yellow of
William Beach third. They started beautifully, Richard
Green, burdened with the weight of 70 years, receiving a
minute’s handicap. Then Michael Rush shot away with
25secs. handicap, followed by Elias Laycock with 12.
Reynolds had eight seconds, and Pearce six. Kemp, the
winner, Beach, and M’Lean were on scratch. Green
pulled wonderfully’ for a man of his age, but lost his
bearings, and went too far over to the opposite shore.
Kemp and Beach came away with a rush worthy
of much younger men. But old man Green kept
in front to the gasworks, and then Kemp headed
him, with the rest in a bunch close behind.
Towards the finish Laycock began to close up, and
the excitement boiled over, causing the watching boats
to press close to the course and get mixed up with the
scullers. The Government steamer fouled Laycock, and
threw him out of his swing altogether. The scullers
scrambled out of it somehow and resumed the race, which
Kemp won by half a length from Laycock, with Beach
three or four lengths behind. The display of stamina
was remarkable. Grandpapa Green finished second last.
Somewhere about 80,000 people were scattered along the
banks, and on steamers and miscellaneous craft. The
official steamers were well patronised, and the takings go
to swell the fund for distribution among the veterans.
The illustration on this page shows the
famous Australian veteran scullers. The one at
the top is Peter Kemp, the winner of the
veteran’s race on Saturday, and world
champion 1888-90. In the second
row are Beach, champion
from ’Bl-’B7, who
retired unbeaten ;
Richard Green,
the grandfather of ■
Australian sculling; 1
and John M’Lean, 1
champion in 1890
The third row' shows
Michael Mush, Harry ■
Pearce, Charles Key-1
nolds, and Elias Lay- 1
cock. This unique uon-
test was worked up by ■
the Sunday Sun, arid®
turned out an unqualified!
success. The photographs 1
were supplied by the Eden'
Studios, Sydney.
Talk about earthly'
glory! Too much public
confidence is a misfortune,
and Stanbury to-day sadly
realises it. For him Satur-
day week was indeed
a. debacle. The loss of
the champion-
ship, £5OO of
the
stake,
and the
prospective
loot of a
match with
Canadian
Human were
bad enough,
but the cro.vn-
i ng disaster was
the charge against
his integrity, which
means loss of “gate’* \
whenever he shall
row again. A sec-
tion of the public
professes confidence 1
that Stanbury could have
won had he liked, and
no matter .how unjustifi-
able, how utterly without
reason, the belief may be, ’
it is there, . and- at present
nothing* seems capable of shift-
ingit. It is doubtful if a match between Stanbury and
Towns would draw a boat-load of spectators to-morrow.
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby competition started
on its double-barrelled second round on Saturday. In A
division Glebe kicked St. George to the tune ofjlB to nine.
Balmain and South Sydney wiped the floor with each
other impartially, and finished a drawn game with three
each. Newtown danced on Manly, inflicting 19 to three.
In B division Sydney slew Eastern Suburbs needlessly dead,
nine to nil, Western Suburbs stamped on North Sydneyby
12tp three, and University had the bye. When this mix-u’p
was sorted out Glebe was found to be still at the head of
the poll by an increased margin, with a credit of 21
points. The second place is occupied by no less than foui-
teams abreast—Eastern Suburbs, South- Sydney, Univer-
sity, and Newtown, with 17 points each. Sydney is
third, alone, with 15 points; Balmain, fourth, with *l3 ;
Western Suburbs next, with 11 ; and thence to the tail
single figures,
! * * *, *
Baimjain has shown an improvement that is
simply amazing, and against South Sydney the forward
division played a beautiful game, dribbling perfectly in
spite of hard ground, scrimmaging with sound judgment
and tackling with certainty and effect. The back
division also worked admirably, but its combination
was not jewelled in as many holes as that of the for-
ward crowd. South Sydney forwards were completely
out-classed, but the back division was good, or else it had
been a day of terrific downfall. Balmain opened with a
five man charge, which was only stopped close up by
the last man being thrown into touch. South next
worked down the touch-line till Balmain heeled and set
going another charge that was carried right over by Wil-
cox after a run in which he dodged like an excited taran-
tula. The shot at goal failed. Then South did some
beautiful kicking, and by first-class generalship got
within 12 yards of the goal, right in front. Before it could
gtrike, Balmain heeled out to another counter-charge
that was only brought to grass by the swift-footed
Douglas overtaking Balmainer Whitting and downing him.
A terrific struggle took place right on the line, Balmain
getting across four times only to be thrown out again
before it could fall on the ball. Then somebody
kicked clear to the Balmain full-back on the 25. He
promptly’ kicked for the goal, but it flew low, and South
Sy'dney worked it out to half-way, and gasped for breath.
Balmain had also felt the strain of that effort, and while
the water-side suburb was taking a deep whiff of
oxy'gen, South man Fry suddenly rushed through, to be
brought down two y'ards from the line. Then another
struggle took place, on Balmain’s line, and South Sydney
got across by sheer force twice, only' to be rushed out
again before it could fall down on the leather. Balmain
worked back to half way, where both parties held their
hearts and gasped. Next South pack heeled. Three-
quarter M'Cabe got hold, and showed Balmain how to
dodge. He slipped through them like cash through a
gambler’s fingers, and headed straight for the full back
with a support running on the outside. Tackled he
passed like a flash, and the scores were equalled. The
second spell showed much hard work done but no scores.
* * * *
Sydney opened its match against Eastern
Suburbs (B Division) with a series of passing charges
that came to grief mostly through forward passing.
THE VETERAN SCULLERS,
who formed Saturday's unique exhibition
on Parramatta River.
Photo, by Eden Studios, George-st., Sydney.
Play was bright, but marred by unscrupulous conduct on
thepart of Sydney, a few of whose players need to be
passed out for reckless kicking. For Suburbs, Messenger
played a great game, and sent Sydney back again and
again by cool, accurate line kicking. Then Suburbs
charged, Messenger taking the ball himself three times
between the two 25’s. But Sydney managed to secure
and punt out. From a mix-up on the corner of the 25,
Sydney suddenly potted a beautiful goal just on half-time.
Score, four to nil. The second half was very fast indeed,
Eastern Suburbs playing desperately to equalise things.
A rapid succession of furious charges caused Sydney to
force four times in five minutes. Some astounding marks
also helped,to save Sydney’s hogflesh, and a sudden rush
took the leather right to Suburbs’ line, where it was
deliberately taken out of the scrum and whipped across
the line. The extra points were added, and the game
ended in a victory for Sydney by nine to nil. Eastern
Suburbs had at least the consolation of knowing that,
badly as Sydney bad lickqd it, it had “ done ” the referee
much worse.
All that is best in the Australian game of foot-
ball was on display at Sydney Cricket Ground on Satur-
day afternoon, when the St. Kilda (Melb.) team met an
18 drawn from the combined teams of Sydney League’s
first grade clubs. The Sydney team was merely a chop-
ping block on which the visitors demonstrated the fine
art to which they have brought their game. They pass
with their feet, the ball travelling right across the
ground in a succession of short,-accurate kicks, executed
with amazing quickness and skill. No matter how
high a ball soars a St. Ilildean seems to be able
to jump high enough to get it. The Australian
game, as these Melbournians play it, certainly is foot-
ball. The hand plays a very minor part in it.
Truly, they do juggle with it somewhat; but it is the
foot that is relied on for the serious business of the game.
Still, looking at it with an impartial eye, this writer fails
to see that it is one scrap less dangerous than Rugby,
and the jumping for glorious high marks is most
risky. Nevertheless, played properly, it is an inter-
esting thing to watch. It partakes more of the nature of
human draughts or chess, whereas Rugby is a miniature
battle • and the instincts of a thousand years of close
order and charging en masse probably explain why the
Rugby game appeals more to of the spectators.
The Vic. Football League, which has a match
arranged with Ballarat this coming Saturday, perceiving
that any old team will meet all likely demands, decided
not to lose a good “gate,” and postponed two of last
week’s games for seven days. This has grievously vexed
the Association, which thought its match with South
Australia was going to be the sole attraction for that
Saturday. Consequently the two bodies are niore un-
friendly than ever; also the S.A. Association is being
drawn into the quarrel. The trouble is of course the old
human weakness that makes the stronger man want the
bigger half of the loaf. There being thus only two League
games last week-end, a 40,000 crowd distributed
itself between the ’Wood v. Essendon and South v .
Geelong tussles, and the former’s ground was densely
packed. The crowd got its money’s worth in the finest
and fastest game seen this season, played with sufficient
vim and sufficient luck to make it interesting up to 10
minutes before the bell rang. ’Wood started well by
kicking two goals, but for the rest of the first quarter
shot after shot just missed the posts, the score then
being two goals 10 behinds to Essendon s one behind.
Then the ’Dons woke up, and half-time saw them 23
points to 35. They kept battling steadily thereafter, but
'Wood had got its system going to perfection-
no man holding the ball longer than was necessary
to pass it on by a short, low kick or a punch,
to the handiest man in front—and the pace finally found
the opponents’ weak spots. In the last 10 minutes the
Essendons were played to a standstill, and ’Wood put on
three goals more, just to make sure, the tally being
’Wood nine goals 15 behinds to five goals seven behinds.
South Melbourne, flushed with last week’s victory over
Carlton, played the same 18, and walloped Geelong
handily by 101 points to 3S. In the Association games
West met and ran over the weak Ports by 132 points to
27 ; North maintained its lead by' scoring 31 points to
Footscray’s 27, after a hard, good game ; and Richmond
had the better of its argument with Williamstown by'37
to 25, after a most interesting game, in the third quarter of
which the discussion became so unfriendly that the
umpire had to stop play and caution several players
against mistaking their opponents for the ball. Just how
accidents happen to players of the Australian game is
explained by a couple of mishaps that recently put
two men temporarily on the sick list. An
Essendon man, springing for a high
mark, drove his chest so
violently against
a mate’s knee
§ that he was badly
I knocked out, and,
after the match,
was spitting blood;
while a Carlton
man, doing a simi-
lar leap, twisted
and sprained an
ankle in coming
down. There was
no suspicion of
rough play about
these disasters, but
they invalided the
men for quite a
while, just the same.
Lepping event,
at recent Canterbury
Park (Sydney) meeting,
was won by a jockey (M.
ltyan) and nag (Phrizus)
that had never previously
figured in a jumping race.
Consequently, Mo was
liberal (for Mo) with
his odds, and was
a heavy loser
for.Mo,
is).
At Adelaide
on Saturday last
the police had to
escort two players
in rival teams from
the ground because
they had come to blows
and were so anxious to
“finish it” that a breach
’ of the peace was feared if
they were allowed to leave
together.
Saturday was an important day in Sydney
British Association circles. If Glebe could beat Pyrmont
it meant that Balmain had a chance of winning the
premiership. But Glebe had never a hope, although it
started with a rush, and pressed home a well sus-
tained attack. Pyrmont put up an invincible de-
fence, and kept its eye open for a counter attack.
The opportunity came suddenly, and was snapped
at once. Undismayed by its bad luck Glebe attacked
once more, but lost control of the leather, and
before it could recover itself, found that its own goal was
in danger. Pyrmont broke through a second time just
as the spell ended. The second half consisted of a series
of attacks by Glebe, which were beaten back and followed
up. Only once did Glebe get through, and on that occa-
sion the Pyrmont goal-keeper mulled badly, missing the
ball altogether. The game ended in victory for Pyrmont
by six to one. Pyrmont’s score in the competition is 12
wins, one lost, one drawn, equal to 25 competition points.
Balmain is next with 10 wins, two lost, and none drawn,
and 20 competition points. It has two matches still to
play. Rozelle has one match yet to play, and is also the
proud possessor of 20 competition points, so it was not
very much interested in the defeat of Pyrmont. But it
meant a lot to Balmain. Other matches played on
Saturday were Sydney against South Sydney, won by the
latter with four goals to one ; Rozelle’s victory over
Ultimo by three to nil; and Balmain’s defeat of Granville
by two to nil. Now the premiership is decided, the con-
test for the Gardiner Cup will begin.
* * • *
The Yic. Full Court last week unanimously up-
held the appeal of bookmaker Oolman against Justice
A’Beckett’s decision that the V.R.C. was within its rights
in refusing the privilege of bookmaking at Flemington,
or in charging a fee for the privilege. Last Cup meeting
the club decided to raise Ikev Mo’s fee, for the paddock,
from £5O to £75. Ikev paid, but shortened his odds.
Colman, however, decided to fight, and three Judges have
now decided that “as the Y.R.C., under its Act of ’7l,
is permitted to hold the land for the purpose of main-
taining and using it as a public racecourse, it has no
manner of right to make fish of one and flesh of
another. Betting is not unlawful, and the club has
no power to make by-laws restricting a lawful act.”
Which means that if the Y.R.C. wants a fee from Ikey
for betting, it must call it an “admission fee,” and it
must charge the same fee to everybody, backers as well
as layers ; also, it means, incidentally, that the £9OOO it
collected last year in fees was gathered in illegally, and
may have to be refunded. In any case, there will be no
£9OOO, or even £9, this year. It is a frightful situation—
for the public as well as the V.R.C. For if everybody
who pays half-a-guinea can go into the paddock and
bet —and “balance” and welsh—there’ll be riotous times
at Flemington, and Judkins and Worrall will have some-
thing really worth raving about.
• • * •
Wade’sN.S. W. anti-gamblingßill closesall race-
courses with a running track of less than six furlongs in
circumference. That, of course, means six furlongs
round the outside edge, and the animal that gets
the inside running travels less than five-and-a-half
furlongs. Six furlongs, or three-quarters of a mile,
is altogether too short a course for any but the weedy
gallopers of the present-day racing decadence. Hart
an inside circumference of a mile been insisted on it
would have shut out one or two more of the minor race-
courses which ought to be closed in the interests of sport
and of the public.
* * » *
Realm must have been a mighty good thing for
the V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle, seeing that he was
able to win the corresponding event at Caulfield last
Saturday with another 241bs. on his back. For a moment
it looked as though top-weight Florin, meeting Realm on
231bs. better terms than before, would just manage to
turn the tables on him. They ran neck and neck at the
final jump. Florin was the first over, but in the run home
the Flemington hero wore him down and won by nearly a
length. The time (6.50) has onl.v once been beaten, by a
9-stone horse (Good Day). Considering that Realm
carried 11.1, the performance was distinctly the best on
record for the Caulfield race. York, last year, took 3sec.
longer in doing the same job with the same weight.
York was a “ rod in pickle ” for the double event. Realm
was even better pickled than the Adelaide champion who-
has since gone to England.
* * * *
Perhaps The General will reward his followers
for their loyalty' by taking the Caulfield G.N. Steeple-
chase next Saturday. He isn’t the safest jumper in the
field, but he has been round the stiffer course at Fleming-
ton, and it is “up to him” to win another big event.
With Beilis going rather badly on the track, The General
and The Cardinal look promising. The latter finished
second to Airly in a slow-run race two years ago.
* * * a
What a falling off ! Original entrants for
V. A.T.C. G.N. Hurdles totalled 53. Only 15 accepted.
• *...**
Winner (Alexis, with 9st. 71b. up) of the big
thing (Park Handicap) at Brisbane races, Saturday, per-
formed promisingly indeed (judging by the nags behind
him), which is not surprising, seeing that he is by Little
Bernie, from V.R.C. G.N. ’Chase and V.A.T.C. G.N.
Hurdles’ winner Realm’s sister, Czarina. Alexis is full
brother of Czarovitch, heavily back'd for coming Mel-
bourne Cup ; and also full brother of that good performer,
Ivan. Alexis should be worth keeping an eye on.
* * * *
Things were very much mixed over a race at
Rosebery Park (Sydney) pony meeting last Friday. Miss
Alma finished first in the big handicap, but before passing
the post her lead-bag (which made up the necessary load)
fell from the saddle, to be subsequently picked up and
placed on the scales with the jockey. The responsible
official declared “ weight ” and Mo paid out, only to find
that a mistake had been made—allowing the lead-bag in
the circumstances was decidedly wrong. The committee
then placed the second nag, Mona Lily, first, whereupon
Mo kicked vigorously, and swore by the beards of his
ancestors that he wouldn’t unload over two winners.
Once more the wise men controlling matters discussed
the situation, and, this time, ruled that Miss Alma’s
backers must be paid (in face of the fact that, through
finishing short weight, she should have been disqualified
altogether), and gave the prize to Mona Lily.
* * * *
Saturday’s Caulfield G.N. Hurdles’ winner,
Realm, was a profitable spec, for present owner, who paid
650 gs. for the great lepper, after it annexed V.R.O. G.N.
Steeple a few years ago, and has already won £9OO in
prize-money, independent of bets.
•
Trainers and owners of common dirt often evi-
dence lamentable lack of originality in naming their
nags, but what must be said of the King, who has called
his vearling colt by Persimmon from Courtly—Court
■ Plaister. Perhaps it is an obscure royal joke, though !
* * * *
The final of the Dunlop Inter-Club premiership
under the N.S.W. Union was runoff on Saturday, on the
Homebush road. The competing teams were those re-
presenting ‘ the Enfield and Eastern Suburbs Clubs,
and consisted of four riders each. The road was
dusty and hard, and the blue metal cut the tyres griev-
ously, causing many punctures. Nevertheless it was a
great race, the ,40 miles being covered in lh. 56min.
12 l-ssee. The competitors were paced by selected riders,
and kept together wonderfully well. At the finish
three of each team Were all bunched together, and
there was a great sprint for home. Enfield rider Maxwell
just beat Thompson, of the Eastern Suburbs, with Blake,
also of E.S., close behind. Then came Gannon, of En-
field, followed by Nicholson, of Enfield. After that there
was another Enfield man sandwiched between two
Easterners. Enfield won by two points, and as this is its
second win, the shield now becomes the club’s own pro-
perty. Balmain has also a shield of its own, having won
the championship in 1902 and 1904.
Liver and Kidney Troubles.
DR. MORSE'S INDIAN ROOT PILLS ACT LIKE
MAGIC.
Coming troubles often cast their shadows before
them, and invariably liver and kidney complaints
are preceded by marked symptoms. The aching
back, the insipid, tired feeling, are the first m-
dications which
may lead t o
Bright’s disease,
diabetes, gravel,
gall stones, in-
flammation and
stones in the
bladder, and
other urinary
troubles. “Hav-
in g used Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills for
the relief of liver
and kidney com-
plaints I can
speak with some
degree of ex-
perience as to
their magiceffect
upon these ail-
ments,” writes
Mr. George Harper, of 132 Liverpool-street.
Sydney. “For over twelve months I suffered
daily with intense pain from aching kidneys, and
I was frequently almost doubled up and unable to
walk. I was also troubled with chronic constipa-
tion, which occasioned me much distress. Nothing
I tried seemed to give me any permanent relief
until seeing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills in a
chemist’s shop, I gave them a trial, with the
result that they drove away the pains and restored
my system to perfect working order. I still take
a pill or two occasionally, and recommend your
wonderful remedy to anyone who is suffering.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect blood
purifier, and a positive and permanent cure for
biliousness, indigestion, constipation, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments.*


MUSIC IN THE HOME
Made Possible to All by the
Pianola Piano
THE PIANO THAT EVERYBODY GAN PLAY.
This wonderful instrument can be played
artistically and easily by anyone, even by those
music-lovers who Have no knowledge of piano-
playing, or who may not know one note from
another. Its repertoire includes all the music
♦here is, from a Strauss Walt* to a Beethoven
Symphony.
The principal numbers from all the current light opera and musical
■comedy successes of the day are at the instant command of the owner of a
PIANOLA PIANO.
Or, if more serious pleasures are desired, the whole world of music is
equally available. More than 15,000 Pianola Music Rolls are already
catalogued, including from this enchanted realm the works of all the
modern and classic masters.
THE PIANOLA PIANO is a high-grade standard upright
piano, into the case of which is built a Metrost.yle Pianola, the standard
player. The first complete piano, playable either by the non-musician by
means of perforated music rolls, or by the pianist by hand, at will.
THE METROSTYLE, while enabling one to render any com-
position in accordance with an authoritative interpretation, allows, with
equal ease, individual expression. It is also invaluable in that it enables
anyone to play artistically an unfamiliar composition at first sight, even
without any knowledge of music. Found only in the Pianola and the
Pianola Piano.
All makes of pianos taken in exchange at a fair valuation. A small
deposit payment places the instrument in your possession at once, with
monthly remittances thereafter. . ’
A cordial invitation is extended to oall and hear the instrument,
whether desirous of purchasing or not.
An illustrated Catalog will be sent free for the asking. When writing
ask for Catalog “ P>.”
The word “PIANOLA ” is Copyrighted, and the
Instrument is Patented, it is sold only by
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO.
357 George St., SYDNEY.
Branches a* - 185-7 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
311 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
58 King' William Street, ADELAIDE.
The genuine Pianola is sold in Australia only by the above, and
by Nicholson & Co., Perth, Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie, W. A.
TF you wish to BUY, SELL, or HIRE
A MOTOR LAUNCH,
A BAILING YACHT,
or MARINE MOTOR,
Call or Write for List.
MOTOR LAUNCH AGENCY,
CIRCULAR QUAY. T. 1760.
DUNLOP
MINING .i
DREDGING
' AwS
;
J
;\v
i
Are now used by the leading Australian
Mining and Engineering Companies;
THE REASON !
THEY can be Supplied to Order to suit Special Con-
ditions in half the time similar goods can be obtained
from Europe or America.
THEY equal in quality and workmanship any imported
article—are free from perish, and cost less.
THEY give better satisfaction owing to being made to
suit your own special requirements.
THEY are made by an Australian Firm
that has a reputation for honest dealing, and
supplying only high-class goods at Reasonable Cost.
Correspondence Invited. Tenders and Samples
Submitted.
Illustrated Catalogues Posted on Application.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER. CO.,
108 Flinders St .Melbourne. 148-150 Clarence St., Sydney
117 Grenfell St., Adelaide. 268-270 Adelaide St., Brisbane
81 King Street, Perth. Worcester St., Christc'h, N.Z.
Why
Are our Rubber Goods
used by such mines as
the Broken Hill Prop.
I.td. (S.A); Mt. Morgan
(Q); Mt. Lyell (Tas}; Gt.
Boulder, (W.A.) ; and
dozens of prominent
Mining Companies ?
Because they give
satisfaction.
The above illustratitn depicts a Dredging Sleeve recently made to
order of Victorian Government for their Sand Dredge, "Pioneer f y
Witham had bad luck in Saturday's monthly
race for the Chamberlain Cup. (living to his exhaust
valve breaking, he never saw the way the race went.
Saunders also had troubles, his ignition machinery going
wrong and letting him down with a bump. Forest
Finlay, who won the first race and ran third in the
second, again came home two behind the winner. That
fortunate being was F. Daniels. Jarman, who won the
second race, ran second on Saturday, so the appearance
of Daniels is something like an irruption or a strange
bovine in the paddock.
* * * *
The coming of South African champion, Mike
Williams, to Australia was something of a surprise, and
Wren—who stands the expense—doesn’t know what to
■do with Michael, now he’s got him. When the chief engi-
neer of the tote wired for O’Brien of America, he thought
that the arrangement with Williams of Africa was off,
and neglected to cancel his offer to the latter. Such offer
was a purse and expenses to come and fight Squires.
When the fixture with O’Brien was reduced to documents,
a cable message fell in on Wren, announcing Williams’
acceptance of the other engagement, and stating that
Williams had taken to the water, bound for the Common-
wealth. Now Williams says he didn’t come here to fight
small fry, and it seems that Wren will have to keep him to
match with the winner of Squires v. O’Brien. There are
efforts to arrange a biffing bee for Mike with Peter Kling,
and Ed. Williams wants a cut at his namesake. This
proves Ed.’s advisers to be rather unwise. The small man
who sets up against slogging heavy-weights usually gets
heart trouble as a result of too much thumping, and is
afflicted with ring fright for ever after.
* * * *
That Peter Felix is losing the ability to hit a
knock-out blow is very evident by the way Peter Kling
survived the pounding that the scientific black gave him
under meat-yard rules at Sydney National Sporting Club
last week. It wasn’t a fight—it was a rough-and-tumble,
and should have been stopped under the Queensbery
regulations. From the first, it was evident that any
science that was going to be shown would be supplied bv
Felix. Kling was merely a leaping wild animal, whom
anybody with the strength to hit one real, sledge-hammer
blow would have obliterated in short order. Felix landed
him full in the face again and again with bis dainty
left—but it was too dainty. Ivling’s head always
got back to its original position after being knocked
half way down his hack, and he would get in close and
chop, chop. They got hold of one another, and tried to
hold each other’s fists while bashing with their elbows.
They continued to twist and struggle long after the gong
had sounded, and the referee had to get into the ring and
haul them apart, and narrowly escaped getting punched
by both. In the second round they roared at one another
like bulls, and Felix’s wild whoops, while he held Kling
against the ropes and bashed him over the back, the
neck, head and sides, shook the building. Kling was
utterly beaten, and the referee should have stopped the
fight and declared the black the winner. But Kling
got to his corner, and recuperated, and came back to a
round that was simply indescribable. When Kling
knocked Felix down the referee had to hold him back
from the prostrate man while he counted. After that,
Felix went to the floor repeatedly. In the fourth round
Kling’s face was never free of the black fist while they
-were within distance. But the white got in close, and
banged away with both hands on the black body,
•while Felix grabbed his head and tried to screw it right
round. Kling got loose somehow, and beat the black man
to the boards twice, after which the referee suddenly
realised that he had some authority, and declared Kling
winner. There are no points about that method of
-fighting. It is interesting and amusing for the fellows
■outside the ropes, hut it is foolishness for the ones inside.
In the majority of cases it would have been stopped.
Kling ought to have been disqualified several times in the
first round and a half. Kling has plenty of pluck, and if
he looks after himself may yet do well; hut if he tries
last week’s methods on some cool-headed, hard-hitting
■opponent, he will probably be brushed away in the middle
■of his first roar.
* * * *
The bruiser who, “to oblige the club,” meets a
man who is obviously much lighter than himself, has an
unpleasant row to hoe. If he knocks the little man out
in short order, a refined and sympathetic audience calls
nun a “ cow,” or something even more inelegant. If he
lets the little fellow down lightly, the chances are that a
sympathetic referee will reckon he ought to have made a
better showing- against so light an opponent, and perhaps
award the fight to the limiter man “on points.” Then
the hard-jowled persons, who. laid odds on the big fellow,
howl for his blood, and the enthusiastic crowd hoots
him as a ninny and a busted Goliath. This was
the predicament in which Charles Griffin, late of
Maoriland, found himself when he met Ted Green
of Balmain, at Sydney Gaiety, on Saturday night.’
Mr. Griffin was obviously much heavier—he looked
17ib. or 181 b. weightier than the Sydneyite. The an-
nounced weights made the difference a stone. Mr. Green
had evidently studied the tactics of the fate Mr! Napoleon
Bonaparte, and tried to defend himself by putting Mr.
Griffin on the defensive. The Maorilander did not realise
that he was being made a fool of for about a minute, and
then he inserted a few uppercuts that had a singularly
disquieting effect. In the second round Mr. Griffin
settled down to business—be was not there to show
chivalrous consideration, or’to prolong the agony in any
way. The man in front of him was there to be smit,
and Mr. Griffin proceeded to smite. His thoroughness
roused the anger of the crowd, which asked the Almighty
to sky if He had ever seen anything like it. Receiving no
satisfaction, it took to alternately cursing and hootin'*
Griffin. He fell on Green like a landslip, hi's blows hailed”,
and Green fled from the downpour as cattle flee before a
blizzard. Griffin pursued, and bashed and banged with
energy. The crowd hooted and called on its gods, forget-
ful that Green could end it all by the simple expedient of
hoisting the towel. Griffin cared little for their blame or
praise—they had paid their money before they came in, and
that was all the interest he took in them. When the vic-
tim came up for the third round he attacked Griffin with
considerable suddenness, driving home a couple of weighty
shocks that made the cyclonic Maorilander rock. But it
was only momentary—then Green hit the floor with a
bang, and stayed there listening dimly to the roars and
hoots with which the sympathetic but fool audience
irreeted his conqueror.
* * * *
Lightweight “Monty” Andrews, of Sydney,
dealt out a scientific hiding over twenty rounds to “.Ted”
Whiting, at the Cyclorama building (Melb.) t’other night
for a £6O purse. Andrews weighed in some few lb. the
lighter of the pair, but Whiting’s slight advantage in
weight and height did not counterbalance the knowledge
displayed by the Sydney boy, who made his opponent
look a mere novice. Proceedings opened bv “Monty”
shifting about and using both hands with aptitude and
effect. Whiting, out-classed in the legitimate game,
resorted to rushing and wrestling tactics, and endeavored
to beat his man in the in-fighting, but “ Monty ” covered
and stopped so well that the blows counted for nothing.
In the fourth round Whiting, with a bull-like rush,
pushed the Sydneyite in a corner against the ropes, and
rained a shower of blows, mostly on the body. If the
required power had been behind them, Andrews, Esq.,
would have been in a delicate state. Several times
Whiting went to the hoards on his own account,
but referee Stokesbury requested him to box on. The
referee’s decision (after the full 20 rounds) was a foregone
conclusion.
* * * *
With the advent of August Australia starts
what is officially known as the “ new racing season.” Con-
sidering that the crowd which follows the stiffened moke
and the steed that is in the hag can attend a race meeting
of some sort or another almost every day of the week all
the year round, why start a new season ? Why not just
let the old season go right on ?
* * *
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
Victorian Owners’ and Trainers’ Association
last week passed a resolution.favoring the legalisation of
the totalisator. It took the common or horse-sense
view that the suppression of gambling- was impracticable,
and the talk about it just so much waste of the time
which is money. Therefore the aim of those who control
racing should be to give punters an honest run for their
money, and to eliminate from the gambling business the
unhealthy elements of welshing, balancing, swearing,
drinking, cursing, pulling horses, running stiff, and
other needless and unpleasant circumstances. Reed, the
chairman of the Association, reckoned that bookmakers’
profits could not be less than £140,000 a year. He quoted
the case of one book who cleared out to England with
£3,5,000, leaving behind rows of houses and clusters of
pubs, from which he still draws a corpulent income. G.
G. Stead, the Maoriland owner, was brought up as an
advocate of the honest public tote. Indeed, every re-
spectable owner and trainer favors it. He gets better
odds and the machine doesn't get at his boys and hire
them to pull a favorite. The racing clubs’ themselves
naturally want it. The V.R.O. is crying for it, and
as far as punters are concerned the success of John Wren
and the Oollingwood tote is sufficient evidence to con-
vince any sensible man as to whether the betting public
piefers tire bookie or the machine. Unfortunately in
Victoria just now every parson with a loud voice is
shrieking at the top thereof for pro’hibitiori of betting—
“the stamping out of the curse of gambling.” Bent’s
blundering’ in the Worrall. case lias made the reverend
personages feel that they are the power that can move
the Legislature. Bent has introduced a Drink Bill and is
about to introduce a Gambling Bill, and this legislation,
though Bent declares that he is doing it off his
own bat, is regarded by the Judkinses of Victoria
as the actual fruit of their raucous agitation. To
mention the legalisation of the tote just now is to call
down such violent indignation from the church that
many men prefer to drop the subject for fear the church
should burst in its excitement. Meanwhile the book-
makers cordially approve of Judkins and Worrall. The
only thing they are really afraid of is the tote, and 1 hey
reckon that Judkins and Worrall stand between them
and that ealamit}’.
* * * *
The crortk horse-owner sees trouble ahead of
him in Maoriland. The executive of the Racing Confer-
ence has been empowered to provide new machinery, so
that suspected eases of malpractice may be investigated
and dealt with by a permanent tribunal. The primary
idea is to license owners as well as trainers and jockeys, and
the possibility of the license being refused on the annual
renewal-day is expected to prove a very effective
check on the unscrupulous. The idea is a noble one, and
the individual who only has a holiday win when the price
suits will find a much bigger snag in his road than the
’ordinary namby-pamby club stewards who lire so prone
to return a verdict Of “ explanation satisfactory.” The
awful fear of having his license refused will haunt the
cronk owner’s dreams. Loss of his little document
would be tantamount to being warned off the turf, the
oidy difference being this : The old idea is that every
horse-owner has a right to be on the turf, and can only be
dragged off when his character is proved to be awful.
The new idea is that the whole boiling of horse-owners
are only on the turf upon sufferance, arid even if an owner
doesn’t seem bad enough to be directly warned off the
grass his license can he dropped on the ground that lie
isn’t good enough to be actively shoved on to the grass.
During last April 1763 immigrants were
refused admittance at New York—the front door
of that country which Bruce Sniff tells us welcomes
every body with open arms.
The plaints of a certain voluble crowd
about the sinfulness of opening the new Sydney
railway station on Sunday caused Joe Carruthers
to back down, as a matter of course. Joe always
backs down. The proposed Sunday opening
simply meant that the trains which, on any other
Sunday, would have rim into the old station,
would this Sunday run into the new one instead.
There was to be no opening ceremony gist the
usual number of trains. In fact, when a huge job
of that kind is on hand, there is no ti me for an open-
ing ceremony. Possibly, seeing that it was Owe’-
Sullivan who objected most loudly to the Sunday
opening, the trouble was more over the lack of
opening ceremony than over the Sabbath.
Anyhow, the plans were altered; the trains
began to run into the new station on
Saturday, before things were anything like
ready; some voluble people got a chance
to shoot off their mouths at great length;:
and, owing to the premature nature of things,
there was chaos. The people who must
blow off their loose eloquence when anything—
even a new dog-kennel—is Opened, have a lot to
answer for.
“ 0.K.” : If, as some have suggested,
Donald M’Leocl, late of Flemington racecourse,
died of fright he wasn’t the first human
of low grade whose fear of death killed
him before his neck was broken. There is
at least one well-authenticated case of a dead
man being hanged at Melbourne Gaol. He was
a Chow. As he stood on the drop-bridge he took a
melancholy survey of himself, and looked to the
right and left of him, and said, “Not to-mollow—
no more to-mollow.’’ As a matter of fact, there
was no more to-day for the poor wretch. The
hangman could feel him die as the white cap was
pulled over his face, and it was a lifeless form that
dropped into space when the lever was pulled.
All the spectators had seen the Chow shudder off
his mortal coil before he fell. If condemned sol-
diers confronted by a firing party have been
scared into “ dying before the gun goes off,” there
is fair ground for the supposition that “Big
Mick” MtLeod, a soft fellow with no heart for
work, gave up the ghost in a moment of mortal
funk.
The much-needed Chinese Employment
Bill, which aims chiefly to protect the white
cabinet-maker, has been re-introduced for the
manyth time in the Victorian Assembly. It
mainly provides that, after Ist January, 1907, no.
unlicensed Chow shall work in a factory ; licenses
to be annual and non transferable ; onus of proof
that any Chow found working in a factory is
licensed, to lie on such Chow ; a Chow employer
shall not board or lodge an employee, or be re-
gistered as a factory occupier unless licensed ; no
factory occupier shall employ an unlicensed Chow,
Licenses may be cancelled after third conviction.
REFORM WITHOUT REVOLUTION.—The great
and particular merit of Hunyadi Janos is that it
relieves without discomfort; in other words, it effects
reform without revolution. This is because it is the
best and safest natural aperient.*
Mount Gambier, where S. Australia grows
its potatoes, continues to be torn to the depths of
its Blue Lake; and almost every local resident
knows for sure that that is bottomless. When
Labor Premier and local preacher Tom Price was
down there weeks ago,, the W.C.T.U. gave a re-
ception to his wife ; and Thomas said some things
in the local-preacher manner about frivolous
females. Mount Gambler didn’t worry over it
much till the Tory wire-pullers pointed out that
this Labor person had imputed 72 deadly vices to
its wife and daughter. Every potato-grower in
the South was therefore urged to throw his biggest
and rottenest spud at the base calumniator. They
held a meeting, demanded an apology, and called
upon the Institute committee to wipe the name of
Price off its foundation stone. Price hasn’t been
able'to see anything to apologise for, and the
Institute trustees say they are not a political body
and are not going to be made into political tools.
The stone was therefore secretly removed; and later
on it was plastered over with tar and grease. The
Po'ato Union says it didn’t do it; but, all the
same, some of the members are quite furious
enough to do worse. Livingstone, the local’
M.LIA., said, at one meeting, that he was proud
of the Ml Gambier people because they did
not tear Price Iq pieces on the platform of the
railway station as he went away. A side-show is
provided by the W.C.T.U., which has pulled
its bonnet-strings to rags taking violent sides in
the controversy.
Shall hacking cough my rest destroy,
And all my pleasure here alloy?
Are pains that cut me like a knife
To make a misery of life?
Shall bronchial troubles wear me out ?
No—never, all are put to rout
By best of medicines, simple, pure,
W. E. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Native representation in the Maoriland
Legislature is an absurd anomaly, considering that
the sale of liquor to natives is prohibited in the
King country. The Maoris are treated as a race
of children. Kids return no members to Parlia-
ment. If the brown, native is never a man, accord-
ing to social regulation, he isn’t entitled to share
the white man’s political rights, yet he figures as
an infant at the pub and a free and independent
adult at the hustings.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE CONTAINS AN
ENDLESS VARIETY OF DESIGNS. AND
OFFERS MANY
*35
SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated, richly embossed,
silk-lined, ICs (id. Other stylos, 12s Cd, las,
17s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s.
Art China Statnette
ORNAMENT, TAin high.
*s 6d pair. Larger,
7s Cd pair.
PLEASING SUGGESTIONS
•L
A. SAUNDERS.
RACK COMES, 9-ct gold-mounted, 15s.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Silver-mounted, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver EAU DE
COLOGNE CASE, richly
embossed. 4Jin high, 255;
oin high, £2 ss.
SUITABLE FOR WEDDING, BIRTHDAY, OR OTHER
GIFT PURPOSES.
SENT, POST FREE, ON .REQUEST.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SEWING COMPANION, comprising $
articles, in silk-lined case, £2 ss. Other
styles, 7s (id, 15s 6d, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRAYER P.nOK, pure silver-
mounted, “Pearl” or “Garden
of the Soul,” 7s (id. Church
of England Prayer, 7s Gd.
BUYING
BY MAIL,
You can buy by mail
just as well as in
our store.
Our personal mail order
department makes it
possible, and guarantees
it. All goods delivered
post free to any
address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Rapid-adjusting FIELD or MARINE GLASS, achro
inatie lenses, large field, dear definition, with
solid leather sling and ease, £2 10s. Other
styles. 12? fid, 15s, 17s Gd, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, to £lO.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
Choose from our
catalogue any design
you like.
Over 3000 illustrations
to select from.
We send it, post free,
to any address.
Write for it.
A postcard will bring
you a copy.
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO. FRAME, solid silver, cabinet
size, richly embossed. Marguerite
design, 108 6d. Other styles'
Ts Cd, 30s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s,' 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Best French Briar PIPE, real amber stem,
pure silver screw and mount, in leather
case, 12s Gd. Other styles, is (id,
Ss (id, 10s (id, 12s Gd, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver, 4s Od.
Other styles, 7s Cd, 8s 6d,
10s Od, 12s Gd.
€s&
A. SAUNDERS.
Toilet POMADE JAR, cut
crystal glass, pure sil-
ver top, in 4 sizes.
5s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s Gd, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile-leather Wallet DOCKET-BOOK, calf-lined,
pure silver mounts and lock, in Tan or Green, 255.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
Richly-ornamented Gilt Bedroom
“Cherub” base, first-class timepiece,
20s. Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s, 12s
17s 6d. 255.
CLOCK,
7in high,
6d, 15s,
A. SAUNDERS.
Folding Travelling MIRROR,
bevelled glass, Russian leather
case, 4s 6d. Size larger, 5s Od.
I w*\* •«**»' [tt* • -v* E2S* * c 2
A. SAUXDERS.
Lady’s Imitation Lizard-skin Strap PURSE, pure
silver mounts and lock, calf-lined, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 5s Cd, 6s 6d, 8s Od, 10s, 12s Od, las.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHOE LIFT and HOOK, 7in long, in
silk-lined case, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s.
SHAVING CUP, pure silver-
plated, white metal, richly
embossed, 20s, Other styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar-stud BOX, pure silver-
plated, richly pierced sides, 7s fid. Other
styles, 4s 6d, 5s Cd, 7s 6d.
a*
A. SAUNDERS.
Baby’s RATTLE, solid silver, bell,
xylonite ring, 4s (id.
Other styles, 4s fid, 5s fid, Gs 6d, 7s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic Roller SHAVING
STROP, pure silver-plated, 13s 6d.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 17s Od.
A. SAUNITI}:-.
HAIRPIN BOX, pure silver-plated, handsomely em-
bossed, satin finish, 8s 6d. Other styles, 5s 6d, lOs 6d,
12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 qua-
lity, hobnail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base,
£2 10s. Other styles, £2, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
extra long, fine, white brist
les, 255. Other styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Military HAIR BRUSH,
richly embossed, fine white bristles, Ss 6d.
Other styles, 7s Gd, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
pure silver shield. Cs Gd. Other styles,
7s Gd, 8s Gd, 10s, 12s Gd, 15s.
WHISKY FLASKS, pure silver-plated, patent
screw tops, Morocco, Lizard, Seal, or Crocodile
leather, 15s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s Cd, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
HEAD SALTS, pure sil- ,
ver-mounted, richly em-
bossed, 3s 6d. Other styles,
2s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s Cd, 6s 6d.
Lady’s Travelling ROLL, fitted with every conveni-
ence leather case, 15s. Gent.’s, 17s 6d. Other styles,
10s 6d 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, to £l5.
Fitted Bags a Speciality.
Solid Silver Shav-
ing BRUSH mil
SOAP HOLDER,
15s 6d. Other
styles, 15s Gd, i/s
Gd. 20s.
Wk
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather, plain,
domed silver mounts, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 5s Cd, 10s 6d, 15s, 11s OU.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith, and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS,
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.


m mmmm Wmm m
CVV.-.',v'.
masm
••••;>
-, ~ « \
51U»
:• '
m
m
XU
m
•r-v :
""SW:?:
. : xU‘i.V&
- i ••: $
•V:;
(.•WV:-:
Get-
m
Pim
iSsirtMK-SSS
/.'.V s‘.y>
sss
j:-ms
ttfadhraMnw
The “SUN” Gram and Fertilizer Drill,
DISC and HOE.
fNBEAM” Gang Plough
, 3, and 4 Furrows.
The
m
The “SUNBEAM” Disc /Plough.
2. 3,4, 5 and 6 Funfows.
“SUNRISE’’/Stump-Jump Harrows
m
i
m
kgenfe for Crossley’s Oil Engine.
Portable and Stationary,
gg
I
The
7SC
ik
15
r
E
IlWpI
€
-->
r
wv
a.f,
Fiy.nE.ft
Si
h
a®®
ite
:’;J
3
3a»
ifi
The “SUNRISE” Stump-Jump Plough
2 to 8 Furrows.
The “SUNRISE” Stump-Jump Disc
V 2, 3, 4,5, or 6 Furrows.
ougn
m
■ •-
■
si
sm
an
“ SUNDfAL ” Disc Harrows.
“MAXIM” Chaffcutter.
B
Melbourne .Sydney Adelaide
s&Jv3overt C9-P<2rfh, D&lqelyt (s -Brjjtaive


■ »'
FML l
%
v- [r 'V>;
V
\\Wb-
r-
-1
*
:',.-r ■ ' !, ;v '■*
.*v v xt;;
t ®m
m W 4
jgpg
w»<<?
*
TErmn-jW
1 SIS
**% /
&
r nsOL
«HhHL
■IB
■ ■ ip 11 ;♦ i
Sill?®® *■'' :
yh MmM
\ 4: ■/, gP®
M i l "'
- tBS&L
1 J
\ •-- &2M» v .■; . .s%-
\ ¥■&. *m
_ w
m
.<•
■■>■■■ u.r.
■ V Tv‘i
' •:•;■
SJESf**,**’*
'
'.*>■ 'I-:* 4 .
&
Rfl
: :■
•.ms:
/
I
■
* ?:•:
IB
r M %
f> «g
?*&*
ism
■ ■
fyyj.
m
?;«25
m
mi
«5
.
88
«v.*
i ; irV£A
m
■ yy.
•T</ ►’
The Castles o/ our forefathers are the Palaces to-day.
The old Virginian drawn to earth by the aroma of his
favorite weed finds it in every home, in every land
“THE THREE CASTLES CIGARETTE.”


11l
mm
111 11 1
n
!l ! : l„i
- jfl ffl
a
I:i• 1 : ;■:’'
■
m
MMmmsm
■
■
IMillili
■H
mm
WM
Bill
lliliil
nw
m
;iil'l:|
■lll
1 ■ i •i' ■ :
1 HI
m,
MU i H
BMHMH
1111 ill
.
'i r i.'/ w ? Ti
ill
I I
.. .:
HUH
fß'iSteiii! ilBUi
MHOTOfflwffl raiOTWPffifflS#
111
M
a
iBBI
■ll
1
■ . ■■
jliffgil; ill 1 || |ll|j|l
f IHiH
■1
-I-; :i:
.i , .«nM«lll!!!!!i:;mmjjjj||||t|| lM ,HHT
aria
urn'*’ __
•*' i: linll l
"'"lliliil
BIC ni,, i:*iifn,ii
’ll
HlillllH 1
|lliiimii|||||
l!!!!!!"!!m!iillliii!ll!!
iiiillllll
llliiilll
lllii"
111 ■ll ■ 1111111 ; 111111
liiiiiiiiiiiiiil
ALL’S WELL WITH YOUR FAMILY
If your life is assured for an adequate amount with the CITIZENS*.
ALL'S WELL WITH THE COMPANY .
ITS POSITION TO-DAY IS IMPREGNABLE.
ITS STRENGTH IS AS THE STRENGTH OF GIBRALTAR.
ITS FUTURE PROSPECTS ARE BRILLIANT.
CITIZENS’ LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY, Limited
FUNDS JE1,500,000.
Head Office : Citizens' Building, Castlereagh & Moore Sts., Sydney.
Branch Offices: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Wellington (N.Z,)
.I iiiiiiiiiiii
■ii MBm
||liiiuiilllllllHlll' ,, 11" ,,, ||J
limiiiiiinii
mm
iiiiniiii


- Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
" •• •• £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaibe & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLIOAR,
Superintendent.
national j)ank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated, tinder the Companies Act, 1888.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— .las. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial jQutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STRIET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Haul Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other planes.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner George & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised .. .. .. £700,000
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled . .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. \ 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) f £370,000
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... <£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES :
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA — Adelaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meal s. Grain and Dairy Produce of
ail descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
1 iisiness.
Shipping.
3NT. ID. Ij.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
ROOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
>raitar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Steamer
WEIMAR
•SCHARNHORST
GERA
•ZIETEN
*G. KURFURST
•BARBAROSSA
•SCHARNHORST
•BREMEN
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving- MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
SIDNEY Every Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NEW GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and YOKOHAMA.
*PRINZ SICISMUMD, 3300 tons.. Ist SEPTEMBER.
•WILLEHAD, 4761 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER.
*PRINZ WALDEMAR. 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent-
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOIIMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Svdnev.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
1 i nr i 'i' wp »
Tjianrtat.
Capital Paid-up £457,538 10 0
Reserve Li ability of Shareholders .. 176,812 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 60,000 0 0
0 0
£699 351
Head Office: BRISBANE. ’
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE
ds
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown * ..
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dale/eft/ and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
•MARATHON
SALAMIS
DAMASCUS
N. Allan
A. Douglas, R.N.R.
H. A. Schleman ..
Noon, Aug. 21
Noon, Aug. 31
Noon, Sept. 25
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O CESA-TaiC S.S. 00. A. & A.. LIKTE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. SIERRA, 6200 TONS, SAILS MONDAY, AUGUST 13.
For Full Particulars avd Illustrated Matter, send or appiy to —
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
f WINTER
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
»*/«
HOLIPAVS
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
css*
$
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
fflont depiete 0.4*1. Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STR2ET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.';
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT .SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
PASTORAL ACCOUNTS
AUDITED AND KEPT.
LOANS NEGOTIATED.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, 90 Pitt St., Sydney.
(late Actuary for Australasia for the Equitable Life of
the United States.)
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-BED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Sept. 3, Oct, 1, Oct. 29.
To Europe
via
America,
The Most Interesting
Route.
£3T Send for Illustrated Pamph'.ets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Nea/e’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Moor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. TKtEPiiosE 1040.
I Skipping.
I THE AOELAIDfSTEAMSHIPCO:
(LIMITED).
| EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian.
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Gran tala (from Mel-
bourne), August 15.
S.S. Yongala (from Me'
bourne), August 29.
BRISBANE, 'i
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Oairns. I
S.S. Pilbarra, August 11.
S.S. Marloo, August 18.
Best and Cheapest rtoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call-with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
F^ EM^ N . TL |’ C °LOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
•. , , _ vv.vx t/v ouuuißy ( iiiiiiei. onina.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £26 to £75
including table wines. 1
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TUUY, Principal Agent.
Banking. Public CompanrcsT&q '
Bank of Belli South Wales'
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ..
2,000,000 0 o
1.450,000 0 0
2,000,000 0 0
Total 6,450,000 0 0
j Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esc;.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaorin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
Auditors:
Harrington Palmer, Esq. Frederick W. Utiier, Esq
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woild.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
Hotels.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed.
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wil find every omior and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beacon jfield Parade
81'. HILDA.
'I'HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house iu
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.


Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice made
In the matter of the Trusts of an Indenture of
Settlement dated the 7th day of August 1876 and
made between Silvain Eugene Trefond and others
and In the matter of the Estate of Sarah Franklin
deceased and In the matter of the Estate of
Elizabeth Jane Trefond deceased Trefond v.
Boustead 1900 T. No. 1118 and dated the 3rd
March 1902.
It was (inter alia) ordered that the following
Enquiries should be made namely.
An Enquiry who were the persons entitled by
virtue of or according to the statutes of distribu-
tion of Intestate estates or otherwise to the
estate of the above named Elizabeth Jane Trefond
living at the time of her death and whether any
of them are since dead and if so who are their
respective legal personal representatives.
An Enquiry who was the heir at law of the said
Elizabeth Jane Trefond at the time of her death
and whether such heir at law is living or dead and
if dead who by devise descent or otherwise is
entitled to such real estate (if any) of the said
Elizabeth Jane Trefond as descended to such heir
at law.
Now the persons claiming to be such next of kin
or the legal personal representatives of such of
the said next of kin as are now dead and heir at
law as aforesaid of the said Elizabeth Jane Trefond
late of 53 St. John’s Wood Terrace Regent’s
Park in the County of Middlesex (wife of the said
Silvain Eugene Trefond) who died on or about
the 20th day of October 1898 at Brighton in the
County of Sussex are by their Solicitors on or be-
fore the Ist day of November 1906 to come in and
prove their claims at the Chambers of Mr. Justice
Kekewich and Mr. Justice Joyce at the Royal
Courts of Justice Strand London England or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said order.
Thursday the Bth day of November 1906 at 12
of the clock at noon at Room 696 in the said
Chambers is appointed for hearing and adjudi-
cating upon the claims.
Dated this 25th dav of June, 1906.
RICHD. JOHN VILLIERS,
Master.
WALTER ADAM BROWN,
27 Lincoln’s Inn Fields,
London, England,
Plaintiff’s Solicitor.
Note. —The said Elizabeth Jane Trefond was a
daughter of James Naunton late of St. John’s
Wood, London.
Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES.
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effective, and dead cheap.
Bring' along your Cars and Cycles to—
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd.
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
I)* - LIVE AGENTS WANTED IN VARIOUS STATES.
Feel Rig'Ht
WHEN YOU
Feed Rig'Ht
You know one always feels “ very fit ”
when the head and nerves swing along
peacefully and with that certain sense of
power that is unmistakable.
BUT
when overwork or anxiety
breaks down the soft gray matter in
the brain and nerve cells (anxiety will
do it quicker than overwork) faster
than the food you have been using will
replace it.
THEN
to save yourself from that
horror of darkness—nervous prostration
—you must change food and take on
some sure rebuilder.
THAT’S THE MISSION
OF
Grape-
Nuts
made of the selected parts of Wheat and
Barley containing the natural Phosphate
of Potash which combines with Albumen
in the human body and makes the soft
gray filling of the brain and nerves
centres. Another thing to be considered
is that Grape-Nuts food is “processed”
in making and the starchy parts con-
verted into a form of sugar exactly as the
process of digestion in the body, so
Grape-Nuts has really passed the first
act of digestion and therefore the food is
quickly assimilated in the most perfect
manner by babe or athlete.
“ There’s a Reason.”
Get the little book, “The Road to Wellville,” in
each pkg.
fd
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O IA the Bunch
“* post free.
Three Black Tips,
Cream, or Black
Tipped with
White.
WRITE NOW.
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
5/ Length, 12 inches.
/ = POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Order payable to John - Mii.ler. Illustrated Price List Free.
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke anti Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
The Best Cigar in Australia.
A BSOLUTELY the finest cigar in Australia at the price. Has a rich
flavor that makes you want more—a flavor that you won’t find
in any other cigar at-or near the price.
KING Of ALL K. & B. HIGH LIFE CIGARS.
Send 17/6 and Add 9d. for Postage
and we will send you the box post free. In mild, medium
and full strength.
BAMPLE BOX OF FOUR POST FREE 1/-. STOREKEEPERS SUPPLIED.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
1
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
WEAR THE WELL-KNOWN
PERFECTA” SHIRT
(Eesd). For Everyday Wear it cannot be beaten.
Ready to Wear
In Oxford Materials,
5/6
Fifty Patterns to
Seletft from.
Note. —Send at
once for Sample
Shirt,
5/6
Post
Free-
r/
#
SM.mcnwt.im
* MELBOURHE.
¥
A\
I
w
s>
A
f/A
»
*
1
d \\
a
The Celebrated
“CESTUS” SHIRT
Ready to Wear
In Ceylon Materials,
5/6
(Reod.)
For Country Wear.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.
Shirtmakers,
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
IN OUR ....
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL . 1 !.UE IN
Men’s Sac Suits
63 /•
Made to Measure in PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Mannfacture, and in
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and CO A TINGS.
gjUp—Send for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
These Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-made.
THE . . .
BIG BLOCK,
Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
Have You a PHONOGRAPH ?
nffWai
If so, what are you paying for Records 1
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
Durability.
PRICE 1/3 EACH -
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (GenU
Australian
Headquarters :
25 Ash StSydney, N.S. W.
1
'*r
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the_ premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND Tor ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND, SPECIALIST, 195 Collins St., Melbourne
Carruthers has instructed every N.S.W.
shire council which fixed the salary of its secre-
tary at more than £3 per week to reduce it to that
amount. AVhat will happen to those that refuse
to comply? Also, have instructions been issued
to those councils which give less than £3 per week
to raise the amount to the Carruthers standard ?
Or lias Joseph putted them on the back in recog-
nition of their sweating propensities ?


Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
£0
and | M
Bowels, S£
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
California
Syrup of Figs
is a positively reliable and
at the same time the most
agreeable family medicine for
Constipation,- Biliousness, In-
digestion, Headache, etc.
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP OF FIGS,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,
is strengthening, invigorating and energising, not
weakening and lowering as most ordinary pills and
purgatives are. There is no discomfort or inconvenience.
It simply aids and seconds nature, and its results are
healthful regularity and freedom from dangerous im-
purities in the system.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32Snow Hill, London, Eng.
Australia: 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL ENTERTAINER!
The 6lobe
CINEtyATCXSRAPN
PRICE—
£IB 10s.
Write for
Particulars.
\
nui
.
THE newest and finest instrument ever offered at the price. The Cinematograph is a
wonderful entertainer. The Mechanism is on the Star Wheel principle, of sound con-
struction, and well finished. The Spools are inches in diameter, and will hold 600 ft.
of Films. The Body is made of Russian Iron, and is large enough for any size Arc Lamp, is
mounted on a Polished Ash Base, and it slides over on metal runners to bring the Condenser
into position with the Lantern Projection Lens. The Optics are first quality, and consist of a
2A-inch Cinematograph Lens and an 8-inch Lantern Lens. A Carrier is included to act as a
cut-off. The whole apparatus is sent out in a well-made cabinet, bound with iron corners,
and iron handle.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
‘MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET (facing Royal Hotel), SYDNEY.
I'll Try It.
Do You Want a Moustache?
Then just try a jar of CAPILLARINE. The result
will astonish you.
In a remarkably short time it will give you a full
moustache. .
Try it and see ! CAPILLARINE has a 20 years’
reputation behind it.
CAPILLARiNE!
10/6 POST FREE
under sealed cover.
m
The Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
IUT MONEY RETURNED
TO ALL PURCHASERS OF OUR
Wonderful GAS-SPIRIT STOVES
IF NOT IN EVERY WAY ENTIRELY SATISFACTORY.
WE have sent out thousands of our “ FAVORITE ” GAS-SPIRIT STO VES, and HAVE NOT HAD A
SINGLE COMPLAINT. They’re the most ingenious, simplest, and most useful and economical Stoves on
the market. So different to anything hitherto brought out, and so effective.
The “ FAVORITE ” Gas-Spirit Stove Creates Its Own Gas.
fd
No pumping of air into it to make it dangerous
to use, or unsuitable for ladies to handle. It is
filled with Methylated Spirits, and to use it you
simply press the little Pump A, which deposits
enough of the Spirits into the Channel B to
heat the Burner C. The heat of this Burner
causes the production of the Gas, which lights
at the Jet Holes around the Burner. It is blown
out just like a candle when finished with, and
leaves NO SMELL, causes NO SMOKE or SOOT,
makes NO NOISE, and is POSITIVELY FREE
FROM DANGER.
As a time-saver there is nothing on the market
to equal it. Takes no more time to light than it
does to strike a match. A veritable boon in
every home, office or bedroom. Better let us
send you one. We guarantee every Stove we
send out, and refund money in full if not in
every way satisfactory.
Price only 3/6 each
Postage extra—
. N.S.W., 6d ; other States, N.Z., etc., 9d.
A USEFUL COMBINATION TOOL, consisting of Oan Opener, Glass Cutter, Knife and Scissors
Sharpener, Corkscrew, Tack Hammer, and Screw Wrench given free to all purchasers of two or more Stoves.
Usual price 6cl. each ; postage Id.
Also in stock, “DOVER ” EGG BEATERS, Set. each ; postage 3d.
“DIAMOND KNIFE” POLISHERS, Is 3d; postage 2d.
WggT The Whole of the above four Most Useful Articles for ss.
Postage—N.S.W., 9d extra ; other States and N.Z., Is. 2d. extra.
A. J. SMITH & CO.,
Martin Chambers (only), cor.
Pitt & Moore Sts., SYDNEY.
SIXPENNY MUSIC
Owing to the enormous demand for popular songs at a cheap price, we have issued the following great songs at Sixpence per copy, full music size :
No. 1
No. 2.
No. 3
Hear the Pipers Calling, Jenny Mine
The Greatest 2dth Century March Song.
In the Shade of the Old Apple Tree
The Greatest Ballad Hit of 1906.
I Wouldn’t Leave My Little Wooden
Hut for You
Is a song of sterling Merit.
No. 4. My Irish Molly O!
The great little Irish Song.
No. 5. Nobody
The laughing song that is setting all Australasia on
the smile. Sung by Hugh J. Ward.
No. 6. Teasing, Teasing, I was only Teasing
You.
These are the best selling songs of the day. 7d. in stamps will land any of these at your door.
The penny is for postage. If you order three at a time, a penny also covers postage. Special rate to trade.
AL.ILAN &, CO„ 276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne
PUBLISHED BY
Almost impossible to find in the House of
Reps, a Freetrader who is a Freetrader when his
own constituents are affected. On the Bounties
Bill, Freetrader Lonsdale suggested a bounty to the
farmer who lost his crops, Freetrade-Laborite
Brown suggested a bounty for developing rust-
resisting wheat, Freetrader Fuller (from the 111a-
warra dairy district) asked for the bounty on
condensed milk to be increased. And Freetrader
Wilks ie still anxious that the ships of the new
mail line should be built and repaired in his.
electorate, whether that represents the cheapest,
market or not.
The S.M. Herald barracks more and more
loudly for the importation of a Chief Railway-
Commissioner, from either England or America,
at an unlimited salary, on the grounds that an
Australian does not know what competition is
doing outside the Commonwealth to advance rail-
way management. Mr. James, on this reasoning,
ought to place his paper in charge of a Londoner
or New' Yorker used to journalistic competition
in those cities —a man who would be profoundly
ignorant of Australian politics and politicians,
and Australian conditions and aspirations. Why
doesn’t he?
The Foreign-trade push, with its usual
bitter hostility to all Australian manufactures,
has raised a shriek against the giving of bounties,
(under the Bounties Bill) for such articles as
ginned cotton, sweetened and condensed milk,
powdered milk, canned fish, flax fibres, and so on.
The shriek was based on the other shriek that
a huge outlay would be necessary in order to.
provide plant for these industries, and that conse-
quently all the bounty would go to rich mono-
polists, and never reach the farmer or producer,
for whose benefit it was intended. Minister
Lyne replies by a memorandum, which shows that
the plant required for the articles mentioned
would cost something like this Ginned cotton,
£2OOO ; sweetened condensed milk, £lOOO to £5000;.
powdered milk, £2OO ; vegetable oils, £2OO ; tinned
fish, about £200; fibres, the same or less. Obvi-
ously, most of these amounts are within the means,
of a single grower ; all are well within the capacity
of a farmers’ or fishermen’s co-operative company.
So it was just the Foreign-trade lie once more.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report: A quiet
week has been experienced in the local wool market, few
transactions taking place. Advices respecting the new
clip are coming forward daily, shearing having commenced
in many of the early districts. Latest reports from
Bradford show that manufacturers and spinners, although
well employed and having orders on hand for months
ahead, are operating with great caution, preferring only
to buy to meet their immediate requirements. The “ top ”
market is quiet, super GO’s. being quoted at 271 d., and
common 60’s, at 261 d. These prices, however, are in
advance of those ruling at this time last year, and present
indications in consequence point to satisfactory prices
being obtained during the coming season.-*
N.S.W. Premier Carrufchersshould admin-
ister a tonic to that aged and damaged body, the
Public Service Board. The Attorney-General
says
It is impossible for the board to complete the work of
regrading for some little time yet. 1
But this grading of the Public Service is not a
matter which has been suddenly sprung upon the
P.S. Board. It is a statutory obligation imposed
upon it once every five years. Five years is a
long time for a man to wait for what is due to
him, and the Board, if it hadn’t been quite so
gone in the knees, might have contrived to do the
work it is paid for at its due date. The Board is
supposed to see to the efficiency of the Public
Service, but it looks as if many an office cat in the
service could give the Board points in efficiency.
The proposed Australian penny post
is an expensive luxury, which might well
wait until Australia has secured other pressing
reforms. Old Age Pensions, for instance, are far
more urgent, while a scheme of adequate defence
is a crying necessity. Or the money it is pro-
posed to fool away on penny postage would just
about enable the Government to take over the
Northern Territory and start the Transcon-
tinental railway. Until Australia is properly
defended a penny post won’t help it much.
The still-born Secesh movement in Wes-
tralia is wonderfully like the Secesh that was
born dead in N.S.W. The wail of Monger,
M. thattheother States are “battening on
the life-blood” of W.A. is Joe Carrutliers’ cry
over again thatthey are “battening” on N.S.W.,
and Monger’s fable that Westralia only entered
the union on the promise of its transcontinental
railway is almost a repetition of the Ananias of
Premier Joe and his friend Lindon Biddulph that
N. only entered the union because it was
promised an Australian capital 100 miles from
Sydney. There is a wealth of imagination about
Secesh that, if devoted to writing testimonials for
patent medicines, would produce shocking conse-
quences.
“ A Planter ” shed tears all over the pages
of the S.M. Herald, the other day, re the horrors
which, he says, await the Kanaka when he goes
back to his sunny native isle. (It seems from his
lament that the native isle is just the savage old
place it was long ago ; that all the tales we have
heard about the success of the missionary man are
bogus and brass and “brumrny” ; and that we
ought at once to stop all contributions to the
missions as sheer waste of money and a foolish
contribution to the support of a confidence
trick.) “ A Planter” proposes, as an alternative,
that the Kanakas be sent to Fiji, where he
and other planters will gladly employ them for a
darned long term at darned low wages. Which
looks very kind of “ A Planter’’—not “ A Plun-
derer.”
An old superstition turns up again :• —
Tlie Victorian Street-Betting Suppression Act forbids
betting with “ infants ” —persons under 21 years of age—
the penalty being £lOO fine. For 10 years that portion of
the Act has been a dead-letter, because no detective or
policeman is under 21, and, if the ’tec. hires a person
under 21 to bet, he has himself broken the law and made
himself liable to £lOO. Consequently, there is no
evidence, though it is well-known that half the betting
done at the clubs and tote-shops in Melbourne is by legal
“infants.” Still, a North Melbourne betting publican
has had the bad luck to bump up against the law.
It was that accursed number 18 again. This is how the
story is told for the prosecution. The pub. is
the 13th on the list for that suburb. It is just
13 doors from the nearest pub. on each side. It
was June 13, and a little girl 13 years of age
named Alice Tucknell (13 letters in her name)'came in
and put 12 pence on the horse numbered 13 on the card
for the first race at Ascot. She backed it for a
place, and it won, and then she backed No. 13 in the
last race both ways and it also won. All these 13’s must
have alarmed the bookie something considerable; but he
held out. And he paid the little girl all her winnings.
At least, he said he did. She went home to her father,
told him all about it, and showed him the 7s. she had
won! He figured it out, and then went mad. He
said she should have got 135., and away he went
to the bookie to expostulate. He came back with
one black eye, a bruised ear, and 11 other injuries—
making 13 in all—in various parts of his body.
(This part of the yarn is invented to keep the
13 superstition going.) He rushed off to the police-
station (which also has 13 letters in it) and informed the
sergeant in charge. The. sergeant took down the state-
ment of the girl and her father, and forwarded them to
the Crown Law Department. It sat on the matter for
weeks and har.ched a prosecution. A summons was taken
out calling on the publican to come before a court on
August 13.


Amusements.
lUEW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in the Adelphi success, in Four Acts —
HONOR THY FATHER.
EUGENIE DUGGAN as MERCY MERRY.
Prices—3s 11 js., Is. Plan Allan's, Menzies’ & The Grand.
Missing Friends.
TyiLL JOHN SMITH, who left Narrandera, New South
Wales, in 1894, for shearing in Queensland, and who
was last heard of at A (flick’s, Warbrecban, Queensland, or
any person knowing his whereabouts, communicate with
WILLIAM M. DALEY, Solicitor,
14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Public Notice.
Commissioners of Savings Banks.
FOR ADVANCES DEPARTMENT.
(KNOWN AS CREDIT FONOIER.)
ELEVENTH ISSUE OF
Debentures for £lOO,OOO
at 3J per cent.
TO MATURE 31st OCTOBER, 1917.
To be issued under the authority of the Acts of'
Parliament of Victoria, Nos, 1481, 1722,
1778 and 1878.
CONDITIONS FOR TENDERS.
Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’ Head
Office, 29 Market-street, Melbourne, until noon on Tues-
day, 28th August, 1906.
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO, or
£5OO, as may be desired.
interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be payable half-
yearly on 30th April, and 31st October, the first such pay-
ment being due on 30th April, 1907, at the Commissioners’
Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria.
Any tender below £9B per £lOO will not be entertained. :
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash, or by
a Bank Draft payable to the Commissioners of Savings
Banks, amounting to 10 per cent, of the face value of the
Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be accepted in
full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on or before
28th February, 1907, or may be paid at an earlier date.
Interest at per cent, per annum will be allowed on
accepted Tenderers’lodgments of 10 percent, and over
from date of receipt to 31st October, 1906, and will be ‘
payable up to that date on the issue of the debentures.
Commission will be allowed only to Brokers who are'
members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate of
ten shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures for 1
accepted Tenders.
The due payment of these Debentures, and of all inter-
est thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by and
the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of Part
1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed by the Go-
vernment of Victoria.
Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected, and
Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon ap-
plication at the Head Office of the Commissioners or any
of their Savings Banks.
By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General of Savinas Banks.
6th August, 1906.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.—Probate Jurisdiction. —In the Estate of
JOHN WOOD, late of Forbes, in the State of New South
Wales, Freeholder, formerly Baker, deceased. —To
ELIZABETH MARTHA WOOD, formerly the Wife of
the abovenamed John Wood, deceased.—Pursuant to an
Order of the Honorable W. GREGORY WALKER,
Probate Judge, made herein on the twenty-eighth day
of June, 1906, the Widow (if any) of the abovenamed
John Wood, who died on the 15th day of March, 1904,
is, on or before the 31st day of August, 1906, to come
in and state her claim to participate in the distribution
of the Estate of the said John Wood to the Curator of
Intestate Estates; otherwise the said Curator will
proceed to distribute the Estate of the said John Wood
as if he died without leaving a Widow. The address of
the said Curator is Queen’s-square, Sydney. Dated this
29th day of June, 1906. T. W. GARRETT, Registrar of
Probates.
DAINTY WORK FOR PRETTY FINGERS
THE PURITAN MAID
SILK PATCHWORK PILLOW
Only 3/6, Carriage Paid
Makes a Handsome Cusbioc
21 inches square, exclusive
of Ruffle
Artistic Design & Colors
VERY EASILY PUT
TOGETHER
A Pleasing Creation
for Needle Workers
A boot 250 Rich Quality
Silk Pieces In Beautiful
Shades of Blue, Green,
lirown, Crimson, Cream
Ac., and Fancy Stripes,
Checks, Turuuis. Ac
This Cushion wins the
Prize at Shows and
Bazaars whenever ex-
hibited.
•TSjPT.HE complete outfit consists of about 250 pieces of silk
¥ accurately cut to size and shape aod of elfectively contrast
« tng colors and patterns There is not the slightest trouble
or difficulty about the way of making up tbe Pillow, for simple
and clear prioted directions are given, and one completed
pattern square *s sent with the outfit Forty nine of these squares
make a Pillow measuring 21 inches both ways, exclusive of tbe
ruffle. The engraving serves merely to give you some faint idea
of the general effect of the contrasting patches and the method of
arrangement, but it is not possible to display the richness of 'he
appearance, the wonderful not of color, yet the exquisite harmony
of the sbadmgs and tbe symmetrical combination of the compieied
design. Of course, tbe pattern may be varied to mafce a larger
or smaller cushion or a bed-spread, or quilt The price of tbe
complete outfit is only 3/0, including carriage; three outfits for
10/. These Pillows when finished sell readily at 12/6 or 15/
each, and at church bazaars realise double those figures. A Needle
Threading: and Thread.f’atfing Thimble will be given with each
of tbe first ioo outfits sold if you mention this paper wnen ordering
THE UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY.
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
Amusements.
1"OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction of J. and N. TAIT.
AUGUST 9, 11, 14, and IC.
MDLLE. DOLORES,
The Great Prima Donna ,
BRISBANE—AUGUST 23 and 25.
MELBOURNE—SEPTEMBER 1.
65., 45., 2s.
EDWIN H. LEMARE,
THE FAMOUS ENGLISH ORGANIST.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
SEPTEMBER 1,5, 6, 8.
Tickets at Paling’s. H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Concert Manager.
Criterion theatre, Sydney.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 11,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in a great and interesting
DICKENSIAN PRODUCTION,
BLEAK HOUSE.
MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY as JO.
Magnificent Scenery and Costumes of the Period.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is. Box Plans, Elvy’s, Day
Sales, White Rose.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
BLAND HOLT’S Melodramatic Mirror of City Life—
IN LONDON TOWN.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. O. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE, supported by Mr. THOMAS
KINGSTON, in Paul Roster's Stirring Stage Version of
Charles Major’s Famous Romance —
DOROTHY VERNON.
Box Plan at Paling’s. IPS’" PRICES AS USUAL.
QUEEN’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Pitt-street, opp. Criterion Theatre.
EVERY EVENING (except Thursday, August 9). ■■
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
And Their Moving Pictures,
introducing the greatest attraction ever seen in Sydney,
THE ROYAL FESTIVITIES IN MADRID.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
|_| AY MARKET HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY,
ley- PRICES—6d. and Is.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
SEYMOUR and DUPRE, Comedy and Specialty Artists.
Last Two Nights of BRINN, Sensational Juggler.
Enormous Success of VASCO, the Mad Musician.
ALEXANDRA and BERTIE. KELLY and AGNES.
Enormous Success of LITTLE CLIFF.
Great Success of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, sup-
ported bv Messrs. GEORGE BENTLEY and H. HALL, in
anew Sketch—“THE LADY BURGLAR.”
MAUD FANING, Miss OLIVE LENTON, &c.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
IRVING SAYLES, Comedian.
PHILLIPS BROS., Vocal Duo.
RALEIGH and MAY, Slack Wire Juggling Act.
FRED BLUETT. Character Comedian.
TED KALMAN, End Man.
NELLIE KILBURN, Soubrette Artiste.
CARLETON and SUTTON, Knockabout Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. KsT PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■* Lessee and Manager .. Mr. j. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, 9th August (last Performance)- 1 - -
THE SQUAW MAN.
FRIDAY, 10th August (One Night Only)—
THE CHRISTIAN.
SATURDAY, 11th August—Return of Mr. J. C. William-
son’s Royal Comic Opera Co. and First Performance
in Melbourne of
THE LITTLE MICHUS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
NEW
No. 4.
No. 4.
Albert's American Annual
CONTAINING —
10 numbers of Latest Songs, Piano Pieces, Lancers and
Cakewalks. (£1 worth of the Best Music for 1/2): —
I’M TRYING SO HARD.
BARNEY.
YOUR DAD CAVE HIS LIFE.
MY YOKOHAMA LADY.
UNDER THE ANHEUSER BUSH.
DOWN IN THE DEPTHS.
WOULD YOU CARE? Waltz.
SAILOR CAP, March.
HAPPY HITS, Lancers.
CEORCIA RAGTIME, Waltz.
With full Words and Music, all bound together in
one volume, and with a beautiful cover. Will be
sent to any address in Australasia post free for 1/2.
ALBERT & SON, King=st., Sydney.
Owners of the “ BOOMERANG ” Mouth Organ. Pub-
lishers of American Music, Wholesale and Retail
Distributors of Edison’s Phonographs and Records.
Catalogues of Music and Musical Instruments, Phono-
graphs and Records posted free for the asking.
“ BOOMERANG,” SONGSTER No. 4, containing 60
Songs (words), Complete Guide to HYPNOTISM,
Comical Recitations, Funny Sayings, etc. Price 7d.
the lot, post free.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d. ; Posted, 8d
s
mm
I i».I W %
£ mm A
Hr. * w
■*; wi
• ! I^ ' :
, ;
■ ~ ■ '. C i : ;, ■■'■•'•.'.;■ ■. ■ ■ -
_
' • $%
*v. •
jUP I
4 **4
>: M9)
a
■Vii
■
'
x 'fm
'.% y f- *x*^;
•.....
'
11 aI<IV V BH V 1 T AHHH|r , 9
Ufetf
A
JAS.WARD, Brickfield Mill, Sydney.
H
EALTH, as supplied by ♦ * .
BLACKF6LLOW BRAND
. . . PURE . . .
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
r
fe, liuliatecf by F^EAVT^II
IN order that the people of
Australia may have an
opportunity of testing.the
fine quality of our genuine
Eucalyptus at a fair price, we
have decided to offer for three
months only
16oz. Bottles of Pure
Eucalyptus for . .
3 f Q each
(or 3 Bottles for lOs)
posted to any ad-
dress in the Com-
monwealth.
Mr. A. H. JACKSON,
B.Sc., Ph.C., E.C.S., Public
Analyst, 349 Collins Street,
'Melbourne, in his report on
our Oil, says : “ Blackfellovv
Brand Eucalyptus has been
tested by me at various times
and I have always found it to
satisfy all the requirements of
the British Pharmacopoeia.”
In buying so-called Eucalyptus Oil from your Chemist ox* Grocer
you. pay at least 7s. for the quantity
we are offering to the public for £?
3s 9d.
We are the largest Distillers and Exporters of PURE EUCALYPTUS in
Australia, consequently are in a better position to supply a genuine than
mere factors and bottlers, who make the public pay for the labor entailed in
packing the oil in small bottles, together with at least 20 per cent, added for
middlemen’s profits. "
Write Direct to . . .
ECKERSLEY ®. SONS,
Eucalyptus Oil
Distiller
214-210 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE, Australia
One Thomas Henley, of N.S.W. State
Parliament, informs the public through the press
(27/7/’O6) that he is profoundly impressed with the
failure of State Socialism as evidenced by the
suspension of the State motor ’bus service. A
mere nodding acquaintance with Henley, who is
a plumber and an authority on septic tanks,
would reveal the improbability of his being im-
pressed with anything of larger importance than
a soldering iron or a roll of lead. While Henley
is in the humor, he might become profoundly
impressed with his own inconsistency in retaining
his seat on the Board of Water Supply and Sewer-
age. If State Socialism is a failure then the
Board of Water Supply and Sewerage is a failure,
and it is partly run by a failure and plumbhr
named Henley.
Ex-Premier Philp, of Queensland, has
suddenly developed a strong weakness for cold
tea. In the Assembly the other day, he called
the drinking and gambling evils “ the real curses
of Australia, ” and argued that the hotels should
be brought under the provisions of the Factories
and Shops Act, which would mean closing at 6
p.m. “ Will you support a measure to ensure
this reform ? ” said Home Secretary Airey,
quickly. “ Yes,” shouted Philp, and so pinned
himself down to something he will be very sorry
for by-and-bye.


ass
CELLULAR HLOTMINC DEPOT
'ARM
KOi,
C .
t. ,
■
DAVID BRAHAI & CO*
94 King St., Sydney.
Tailors and Costume Makers.
Sols Agents for
Aertex Cellular Underwear.
LINOLO
GLEANS, SHIMES, POLISHES
Linoleums, Wood Floors,
Furniture, Harness,
Boots and Shoes, &c.
THE FINEST AMERICAN POLISH
YET PRODUCED.
' All Grocers, Ironmongers, &c.
Australasian Agents—
AMERICAN HYGIENIC AGENCY, Ltd., 177 Liver-
pool Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
Sole Victorian Distributing Agents—
J. J. MADDEN & CO., 58 Queen St., MELBOURNE.
Sole Queensland Distributing Agent—
ALFRED MOON, 37 Adelaide St., BRISBANE.
FREE SAMPLES any State on application.
THE “EVER READY”
.Electric Pocket Search Light..
'V
Eyerybody wants the
handy pocket lamp.
It is smokeless, grease-
less, dustless, and non-
explosive . Saves gas
and insurance bills.
Gives a strong light so
long as you keep your
finger on the button.
Take your finger off and the light disappears. It
cannot get out of order: no wires, no oil. no liquid
and no danger from fire. Women or children can
safely use it to search in dark corners of rooms. It can
be used in bath-room, sick room, cellar, closet or office,
it will last indefinitely with ordinary usage.
AMUSING ! NOVEL! USEFUL!
Made to Fit the Pocket. Light and Easy to Carry.
Gives a Good Strong Light.
Size— Si inches long. 2$ inches wide, and 1 inch thick.
IMITATION MOROCCO CASE.
It lights up a considerable area. Turn it on a spoony
couple in the dark and see all the fun.
Did you ever drop anything on a dark windy night,
and the match wouldn't light? The wind can't blow
out the SEARCH LIGHT.
Did you ever go into the house and knock the
skin off your shins in the dark looking for a match ?
Get a SEARCH LIGHT. '
If you've been out with your friends at night, you
never miss the key-hole if you carrv a Search Light.
Judge for yourselves how useful such a light is.
Von can only get the “ EVER READY ” from us.
With Incandescent Bulb 5/- carriage paid.
With Lens, giving three times the light 7/6 carriage paid.
THE ATEN "S AND MAIL DEALERS
c">-opj:b.ative society.
.3 .-COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency So.
Ltd..
SYDIVTB Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
1
f
WHIM.
William Fleming# 1 equitable bw, george st.syd/iev.
cjhcjwv (2) iSatidnuJuyMs
Ju/i/uud Y-mUa&td for uJ
kavt cental
trfwnak Jcr-1
turn. s?v
<u/i/£o UMV/'
wnyrtatu-
fadum * 2n/ c-trnlcrma.
m^Miit^meriwrfar'a
pi* yvtyjMft'
WILLIAMS'
SHAVING
SOAPS
m
*. .1
II
11
' i><*» -it
mmm
More Than
/2 the Shave
depends upon the lather,
and the lather depends
upon getting Williams’
Shaving Soap. Most
used because it has
never been equaled in
ability to soften the
beard, keep a rich,
moist, creamy lather,
allay irritation, and make
shaving easy and safe.
It’s dangerous econ-
omy to experiment on
your face with other
makes.
Sold by Chemists, Hairdressers and
Perfumers , all over the world; or
mailed to any address on receipt of
price in stamps.
Williams.’ Shaving Sticks, Is.
Williams’Luxury Tablets, Is.
Williams' American Shaving Tablets, 6d.
(Trial Size) of Williams’ Shaving
Stick, 2d. Trial Tablet Williams’ Shav-
ing Soap for id. stamp by addressing
THE J. B. WILLIAMS CO.
65 Gt. Russell St., London, W. C.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
Main Office and Factories.
GLASTONBURY, CONN., U. S. A.
a
Tbe BRUNSWICK
Household
ICE MACHINE
is, as its name implies, a machine that has been brought
down to the small capacity required for a private house.
In short, where hitherto it has been impossible for the
private house or the large boarding-house to get a
machine that is not “ miles too big,” the BRUNSWICK
has solved the difficulty, and will provide you with as
small a quantity as 2001 b. of refrigeration and 101 b. of
actuhl ice.' This is a boon to those in the Country and
Bush who have perhaps power—they only want J-horse
power for the smallest size of machine—and can drive a small refrigerator. A small scheme of cold storage is
the greatest luxury it is possible to have, and we invite inquiries from squatters and others before the hot
weather comes in. Tell us what you want to do, and we will give you the fullest information as to how to do it.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., So,e Aoents ’ 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, &c., &c.
M
3HVIIU
your
oiv/t
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from-
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10US.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered lot
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
A CERTAIN WAY
TO IMPROVE
YOUR MEMORY.
The Pelman-Foster Memory System means to
the brain what modern business methods mean
to commercial life. We show you how to train
the brain to think and remember—we help you
to make the brain a well-ordered house of mental
treasures, where every fact is accessible—where
every scrap of knowledge comes readily to
mind when you require it.
There is no mystery about Memory training.
Write to-day for our free booklet, “ Memory
and How to Improve It," and learn what a simple
thing it is to train your Memory to serve you
faithfully.
Address the Secretary,
The Pelman School of Memory,
Q.P.O. Box 402, Melbourne.
London : 4 Bloomsbury Street, W.C.
America : 901 Whitehall Building, New York.
Germany : Braunerstr, 13, Munich.
MAN’S INFLUENCE
OVER MAN.
Remarkable Words on
Personal Magnetism from
an Eminent Divine.
No subject has excited so much interest or
awakened so much discussion among thinking
people of late as that of Personal Magnetism. It
is worthy of note that clergymen, doctors, college
presidents, and men of science everywhere are
giving it deep thought. Many of them have
openly certified to its wonderful powers. The
outspoken words of the Rev. Paul Weller of
Gorham, N.Y., in this connection will call forth
no little additional comment:
REV. PAUL WELLER.
In answer to a personal letter from an intimate
friend, asking him if it were true that he (Rev.
Mr. Weller) had become a firm believer in
Personal Magnetism and Hypnotism, Rev. Weller
wrote:
The facts are: The subject of Personal Magnetism or
Hypnotism, to which I have devoted many years of study,
was recently more forcibly than ever called to my
attention through reading a scientific work on the subject,
now being circulated by the New York Institute of
Science of Rochester, N.Y.
I am a minister of the Gospel, but I do not hesitate to
say that the reading of that book and the subsequent
study of its contents have worked an all-powerful, im-
portant, and good influence over me. My recommendation
of Personal Magnetism, a subject every man and woman
may study with profit, is njade after thorough investi-
gation and with complete knowledge of its great value. I
make this statement deliberately. The study of Personal
Magnetism, as set forth in the admirable books I have
mentioned above, should be next to the study of the
Holy Bible.
Personal Magnetism embodies all the laws governing
man’s influence over man. It is the power that makes
men mould the minds of men. It turng life’s failures
into successes. It develops the latent powers of the will
and makes one capable of the accomplishment of great
deeds. I have received many letters on the subject, and
to all writers I have answered : “ Write to the New York
Institute of Science, Rochester, N.Y., asking for their
scientific work on Personal Magnetism and Hypnotism.
It will be sent to you free of charge. If its perusal does
as much for you as it did for me you will thank me the
longest day you live for having called your attention to
the book.
Yours truly,
ruiy,
(Rev.) PAUL WELLER.
It will be only necessary for you to send your
request to the New York Institute of Science,
Dept. 22 R., Rochester, N. Y., U.S.A., and you
will receive the volume Rev. Paul Weller recom-
mends by return mail. IT IS FREE. A lid.
postal card will bring it.
Some interesting literature is being scat-
tered about Australia by “Mary” and “Benja-
min,” the un-surnamed Yanks who coaxed a
number of Christian Israelites with untamed hair
away from this country last year, on the ground
that they had to “gather the long-lost sheep of
the house of Israel ” into a vessel bound for
Benton Harbor, Mich., U.S.A. At that time the
“seventh trump” was reported to be sounding, as
a signal for sheep-shearing or something Ihe
seraph who is performing on the instrument must
have a phenomenal lung development, and his
clarion call has lasted long enough to enable
Benjamin and Mary to return for another load of
sheep with long hair and flowing whiskers. (There
is probably no truth in the rumor that the trump is
a steam whistle, and that the “sheep” are unloaded
at a Chicago meatvvorks siding.) Among other
printed matter Polly and Ben carry a stock of
Shiloh’s Messenger of Wisdom, the principal
press organ of the hirsute sect, which has a curious
way of mixing religion with hair and dollars. In
spite of their belief that “ the earth shall be puri-
fied and return to its Eden state,” and that there
shall be no more death among the faithful who
father at Mich., U.S.A., the “Israelites of the
louse of David ” think it strictly advisable for
possible converts to send some coin along with
their applications for Shiloh’s Messengek, or for
the books of alleged wisdom which are also pre-
pared at Jerusalem (now situated in Mich.,
U.S.A.). In sending 50 cents, one gushing person
(sex not stated, perhaps because it is quite obvious)
writes to Shiloh’s Messenger :
l got a little book from a handsome young man with
soft whiskers round his face and beautiful ringlets of
golden hair hanging on his shoulders. Another one was
with him, who might be his brother, with long ringlets of
dark chestnut hair around his shoulders. Both had
calm, happy faces. They reminded me so much of Christ,
as His picture always appears with long ringlets of hair.
They might have been angels sent to deliver the message
sounded by the seventh angel; or they might have lived
in the days of Christ and have been resurrected to go
forth and carry the glad news of His second coming.
They were neither shabby nor dirty, but the clothes they
wore looked cheap and sunburnt.
An angel with “soft whiskers around his face” is
an original conception.


\VfILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6 ; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING , Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP BELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free oC charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
df
THE
DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Hen_ loises
a comj,'et e and permanent cur#
should write to 'I he L. R VERN'OV i n
10 HUN TER st „ SYDNEY, for piml
phlet desc ibing an entirely new P a *ff.
applied method which we will send post
free on mentioning this paper.
Consumption
Gan Be Cured.
At Last a Remedy has been found
that Cures Consumption.
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, Discoverer of the
New Cure for Consumption.
Marvellous as it may seem after centuries of failure,
a remedy has been discovered that has cured the
Deadly Consumption even in the advanced stages of
the disease. No one will longer doubt that con-
sumption can be cured after reading the proof of
hundreds of cases cured by this wonderful discovery—
some after change of climate and all other remedies
tried, had failed, and the cases had been pronounced
hopeless id cure. This new remedy has also proved
itself effective and speedy in curing < atarrh. Bron-
chitis, Asthma, and many serious throat and lung
troubles. '
In order that all in need of this wonderful product
of science may test its efficacy for themselves,
a company has been formed to give it to the
world and a Free Trial Treatment can be obtained
K " writing the Derk t\ Yoi kerman Co. Ltd.,
wuO Djxson Buildings,- Sydney. >end no money.
Simply mention this paper and ask for the Free
Trial Treatment. It will be sent you by return of
post, carriage paid,
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Don’t wait if you have any of the symptoms of con-
sumption, if you have chronic catarrh, bronchitis,
asthma, pains in your chest, a cold on your lungs, or
any throat- or lung trouble, write to-day for the free
trial treatment and book of instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
The Pipe
Without a Rival
The Standard of Quality
in Briar Pipes
obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
US
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the .- ame
diseases in 4.3
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name IW
df
BLOOO POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have- made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Bloud P'oison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIC TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
You Are Tired
Of being drugged and dosed and have gone the
rounds of so-called Specialists, humbugs and
quacks and had your ailment aggravated, consult
the Physicians and Surgeons of
™ Or. Langstcn institute.
We Cure and Cure to Stay Cured all
NERVE, BLOOD & SKIN DISEASES.
The success of our Electro-Medical Treatment is
vouched for by thousands of grateful testi-
monials. The following speaks for itself: —
Dear Doctor,- “ Mortat,” Goroke.
I wish to let you know that since taking
your treatment I am an entirely different
man. Previously I was one of the most
miserable men living. Now work seems no
trouble to me at all, and my sleep healthy
and refreshing. I hope that you may live
long to do your good work.
Sincerely yours, 0. J. FLACK.
FREE FOR THE ASKING.
Our Latest Medical Work, MENS SANA IN
CORPORE SANO— a Comprehensive Treatise on
AH Diseases, 128 Pages ( Illustrated ). Written to
be understood. Points out the way to a Perman-
ent Cure. It tells what you want to know and
what you ought to know. POSTED FREE to all
sufferers. WRITE TO-DAY.
THE OR. LANGSTON INSTITUTE,
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
Consultation Free. Fees Moderate.
When writing mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH' HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they mav OURE
THEMSELVES OK ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple tor all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDUsriEiZ'-
An interesting
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
perve-power and vitalitj'. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAERHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor —•
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNS
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be:
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokoiiyne. I never travel
without it. and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
WILL ANDRADE »> BOOKS
AND
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is : post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Marri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donklly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 0d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, ‘2s!
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering, 1/3. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all de-
grees, Ts. Cycle Building and Repairing,
new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d. De-
cameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride ok the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is.
NOVELTIES.
r
r\ 7
m
V
''f.
Wji/'
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
Picture Frame Making,
Is 3d. Poultry Keeping,
Is. Dream Book, Is.
Every Man His Own
Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Confessions ok a Mel-
bourne Barmaid, illus., is
3d. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring
Entertainment, Is 3d.
How to Bet and Gamble,
Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields,
Factories* and Work-
shops, Is 3d. God and
My Neighbor, 9d, p. Is.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s Ed dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINGARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, 1s; posted 1/3.
508 GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
Engineer’s Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Up, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with
Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s Plain Howe Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 1248 pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, is. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter, Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, las post Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Free Catalogues.
201 BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE.
MELBA AGGORDEONS
<*;
&>j
Produsetha
most. .
delightful
music.
They ara
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1.2, 3. or 4 sots of raeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Fost Office OP
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. Wo
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
376-278 Collins Street. Melbourne.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
%
&
No. I—Gunmetal Open-race Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 lOs, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUIMKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
BalsamAnisced
COUGHS
.Pop )COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
• Safe for Children.
TRADED
MARK
o**
anise* 0
Of all Chemists & Stores . Be sure
you ffet Powell's tenth above
Trade Mark.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the use of
pS RX CORO’S
tSSfcH cE of ft-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quai ler of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faultling & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
DRUNKENNESS.
TOBACCO and DRUG HABIT.
Permanently cured at your own home, safe sure
and effective. Can be giv n secretly to stubborn
patients. Endorsed by leading Physicians, C.’ergjr,
and the Press, Call or write for full particulars,
Everything Free and Strictly Confidential.
ADDRKSB—
“ANALEPTIC ’ CO., 90 Pitt St. Sydney, N.S.W.
“Pyin," from Dunedin
The tide in the affairs of man that leads, etc., dumped
me down in the Scoto-Maoriland town of Dunedin some
three months ago, and I’m just waiting 1 for that tide to
swing me back again somewhere on the coast of Aus-
traha. Any part of it’ll do, I’m not in the way of feeling
particular just now. I came here filled with hope,
t £ that Maoriland bore the brand from top to toe
of God s own country.” I’ve been looking around ever
~y e been here for that brilliant prosperity
which they say belongs to these islands alone, and
which is pitiably absent from Australia. I can’t
find it, and, as far as I can see, Maorilanders (or
that portion of them who camp together in this part
of the island) are also ignorant of its whereabouts. True,
there is no surface poverty ; neither should there be in a‘
small community like this; but it’s the devil’s own job
for a lot of the people to get through the week with 21
meals. Rents are as high as the lower heavens, and the
necessaries of life are about double what they are your
side. Maoriland has been boomed, and folks here are
hugging the boom to their bosoms in order to keep it
warm. If the cold blast of real fact gets to it one of these
days, that boom is going to bust as flat as a decayed toy
balloon, sure as you’re living. Then again, the local
residents; They’re narrow-minded, self-opinionated, pro-
vincial, and utterly incapable of seeing further than the
incarnadine extremities of their probosces. This is no
exaggeration ; ask any man who’s had the misfortune
to be pitchforked into this Caledonian paddock. And
one of the most peculiar phases of this democratic
country is that the. worst payers of the whole crowd are
the Gabor organisations. There’s a rag - here, run under
the aegis of the unions, and the men who run the show on
behalf of Labor go round, hats in hand, and beg for con-
tributions, and ask the casual available scribe to do his
good graft for nix ! This is in “ God’s own country.” Oh!
send me a whiff of Wexford-street!
“Melb.”: Talking of Fawkner’s house,
preserved in Launceston. How much more impor-
tant was his first house in Melbourne ! I went to
see it, in sorrow, just before it was pulled down.
It stood at the rear of the Union Club Hotel.
Yet was not Batman’s house, corner of William
and Collins streets, before Fawkner’s?
“ A.D.” tells a tale of horror :
I don’t enthuse over the young Australian who wears
beer froth on his waistcoat; but I prefer him to
the white-lipped, cigarette shadow who haunts the
chemists’ shops assuaging his unhealthy thirst with
pink and yellow fountain drinks. The temperance advo-
cate has not arrived who is game to accuse the medicine
and pill shops of selling' drinks that, in some instances,
are rank enough to kill a Hottentot. (Probably the local
medico could speak with point upon the subject.) After
five years inside knowledge of the trade, I conclude that
the thirst quencher supplied by the pill man is not the
stuff to build up the stomach of a young nation. Stand-
ing near a city chemist’s, one muggy night, I observed
the usual band of squash drinkers leaning against the
wall outside. They were deadly sober, to be sure, but as
they moved in and out the shop their green and pinky
drinks made strange noises inside them. They addressed
each other in sad voices. One of them, a gaunt, high-col-
lared youth, told a cigarette-shadow beside him that the
almonade and raspberry-syrup was losingits bite. Another
crainpy ” boy said he always woke up after a night of
ginger-squash and pink-shakes as though lie had been
swallowing sweetened vitriol and jam tarts. For six
years or thereabouts I managed an electro-plating de-
partment where pumps and fountains came in regularly
to be renovated and repaired. Some of these elaborate
silver-washed machines are a network of miniature
stills and winding tubes. The common beer pump
exuded an ordinary nine-inch smell when dissected, but
the almonade-raspberry fountain gave out a sublimate of
stinks that poisoned the air and corroded the office
fittings. We preserved the greeny-yellowy slime that
oozed from the middle tubes ; it was quicker than caustic
for burning off warts, and I discovered that it made first-
rate ink. Consoling to know that one has penned good
cow-verse with the dregs of raspberry-squash.
A society called “ Vierderiliterabeagi-
tationskommissiondelegierten versammlungspeti-
tion ” has been formed in Switzerland to protest
against the price of beer being raised.


WILD WITH
ITCHING HUMOUR
Eruption Broke Out in Spots All
Over Body—Caused a Continual
Itching for Two Years —Doctor’s
Medicine Did no Good —Cured at
a Small Expense, and Now
THANKS CUTICURA
FOR COMPLETE CURE
“Some time ago I wrote you for a
book on the Cuticura Remedies and
received it O. K. and went and bought
the Soap, Ointment, and Pills. They did
me more good than any medicine I ever
used. They cured me of my skin disease,
and I am very thankful to you. My
trouble was eruption of the skin, which
broke out in spots all oyer my body,
and caused a continual itching which
nearly drove me wild at times. I got
medicine of a doctor, but it did not cure
me, and when I saw in a paper your
ad., I sent to you for the Cuticura book
and I studied my case in it. I then
went to the drug store and bought one
cake of Cuticura Soap, one box of Cu-
ticura Ointment, ana one vial of Cuti-
cura Pills. From the first application
I received relief. I used the first set
and two extra cakes of Cuticura Soap,
and was completely cured. I had
suffered for two years, and I again
thank Cuticura for my cure. Claude
N. Johnson, Maple Grove Farm, R. F. D.
2, Walnut, Kan.. June 15, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in tha
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
ITCH! ITCH! ITCH!
Scratch! Scratch! Scratch! . This
is the condition of thousands of skin-tor-
tured men, women, and children, who
may be instantly relieved and speedily
cured by warm baths with Cuticura Soap
and gentle applications of Cuticura Oint-
ment, the great Skin Cure, and mild
doses of Cuticura Resolvent Pills, when
physicians and all else fail.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, and Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of
60) may be had of all druggists. A single set often cures.
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
na~ Mailed Free, “All about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
RANKINE & DOBBIE
Manufacturing Stationers,
Printers and Bookbinders.
MINING SCRIP
A SPECIALITY.
285 COLLINS STREET,
Telephone
3227.
MELBOURNE
SB
L3.cS
QUEENSLAND BRANCH —
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Ta 3.—
VARLEY BROS.,
312-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Everything.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
' Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER!
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Solis Australian Agent,]
The first
Essential
for the preservation of the
teeth is to keep them clean by
constant attention at least every morning
and evening.
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder
makes the work of your toothbrush so much
more complete and satisfactory, because it
perfects the cleansing and also supplies the
necessary antiseptic properties.
It is also delightfully flavoured and
refreshing to use.
Sold by local Chemists and. Stores.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co.. Manchester, Eng.
95,090
“THE WAYBACK SERIES.”
MO 3, BED HARRY, 1/-
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S cLouDY AMMOiSii
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
CURES.
Bright’s Disease.— From. Mr. William John Yuille, Harveytown, Eaglehawk,
Vic., Ist September, 1905. . , T
“Despite all the skill and attention bestowed on me by the hospital doctors and nurses, 1
gradually grew worse, the doctors having diagnosed my complaint as Bright s Disease, lhe doctors
gave me up as incurable, and gave me but a few weeks longer to live. I was then taken from the
hospital to my home to die (as my friends thought), as my father did not wish me to die m the
hospital. But I had a feeling within myself that there was hope whilst there was life, and, unlike my
friends I did not give up in despair. On the way home my father procured a bottle of Warner s bate
Cure but, on arrival, I was in a state of collapse from the shaking I had undergone on the way. My
father thinking that the Safe Cure would do me no harm if it did me no good, gave me a small dose,
continuing to do so at intervals throughout the day. I felt a little better, the agonising pain being
less severe. I continued to take Warner’s Safe Cure, and was soon able to get a little rest and sleep,
and my strength very gradually returned. My friends began to have hopes of my ultimate
recovery. Each day investigation showed less albumen. My health steadily improved. Each
bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure I took hastened my recovery. I was then able to get up and about, and
in less than three months was restored to perfect health and strength. _ From that time up to the
present I have had no return of the disease, and for six years have been m constant employment on
the mines.”
gladder Disease.— From Mr. F. H. White, 37 Errol-street, West Footscray, Vic.,
“ About e?ght years ago, when living in Gippsland, I had occasion to do some heavy work on our
farm there and brought on a disorder of the bladder, which caused me to suffer excruciating pain in
the bladder and other organs, especially in my side and back. A brick-dust like sediment pre-
cipitated in my water. At frequent intervals I suffered torture. The pain became so severe at last
that I was not able to get about. I tried a number of medicines with no effect until I commenced to
take a course of Warner’s Safe Cure. After taking one bottle of that medicine my condition was
much improved, and the pain less violent. Continuing to take the medicine, I gradually grew better,
and my urine became clear and free from deposits. All symptoms of my deplorable condition have
now ceased. I enjoy very good health and can honestly recommend Warner s Safe Cure tor bladder
troubles.”
Liver Disease.— From Mrs. Mary Maher, 18 Burrahpore-street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
17th March, 1906. . . ~..
“For a number of years I have suffered from sick-headaches, indigestion, and biliousness. At
times I became quite dizzy and almost afraid to venture into the street. My blood was poor and
j. t imnimr in o-pi. rplipf but without success. 1 was nearly in despair
Wines 1 ÜBVaUIC UUIW Uliij a,u\J. cuu.uou •“**“"*“ ; 1 „
watery. I tried many medicines, hoping to get relief, but without success. 1 was nearly in despair
when, on the advice of a friend, I decided to give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial.
when, on the advice oi a inena, j. aeciueu tu give w »moi o k»ic After taking aboutt
bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure the headaches entirely left me, and in the course of a month I found a
wonderful improvement in my general health. I gained strength rapidly, and as my strength returned
the dizziness ceased to trouble me. I can now eat and sleep and attend to my household work with
ease and comfort.”
Rheumatism.- From Mrs. Mary Regelsford, 84 Gerard-street, Alexandria, N.S.W.,
26th October, 1905. . „ , , , •
“ I was laid up with acute Rheumatism and Rheumatic Fever for eleven weeks, and for eight
weeks of that time I was quite a cripple, being unable to get about at all. I was treated by a Sydney
doctor, but after taking his medicine only got relief for a little while. I then thought a change mign
do me good, so I went away, and while away I got so bad that we called in another doctor. Me pre-
scribed for me, but I only seemed to get temporary relief. I also tried many professed cures for Rheu-
matism, both internal and external, but could get no relief whatever. I was beginning to get very
down-hearted after trying so many medicines. Finally I made up my mind to take Warners bale
Cure. Altogether I took seven bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure and one bottle of Warner s bate Rheu-
matic Cure. After taking the second bottle I began to feel a change, so I persevered with the treat-
ment and found that I was improving with every dose I took. The result was, that I was thoroughly
cured. I can honestly say that I feel like a new woman, being now able to attend to my household
duties, washing included. You are at liberty to use this letter as you like, so as to benefit others who
may suffer as I have,”
A pamphlet containing many similar letters will be sent, post free, by H. H. Warner and Co.,
Limited, Australasian Branch, Melbourne, proprietors of
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
Kofibrt Arc Lamp.
THE BEST ELECTRIC LAMP
for Dwellings, Shops, Show-
windows, etc., etc., is the
Kolibri Arc Lamp
MADE FOR DIRECT AND
ALTERNATING CURRENT.
It gives 160 candle power, and consumes less than
half of the current required by the best incan-
descent lamps.
Sole Australian Agents—
The Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Telephone
No. 331.
Cr. HANNA and KAVANAGH STS., SOUTH MELBOURNE. 12
The Inky Way.
“The Mole”: Sydney received a shock on a recent
Saturday morning, when a report spread that Granny
Herald had ceased publication—shut up shop—tucked
her capital under her crinoline, and left the country.
The rumor had some foundation, as printing was stopped
for about five hours through a disabled machine. When
Sydney recovered from the scare, it tried to imagine
what would happen if the careful Hunter-street dame did
shut up and fly, before the Socialistic Tiger got a good
grip.
* * * *
“Lil”: A recent Melbourne Herald correspondent
wailed that “ Tiie Bulletin, with its insidious cleverness,
is sapping the moral fibre of thousands.” Evidently
“moral fibre” is the latest synonym for “ anti-Australian
principles.” I, for one, would chance my moral fibre
being sapped if certain ponderous journals would intro
duce enough cleverness to make themselves readable.
But they don’t, so they’re guilty of nary a sap.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The wonder about the average provincial
paper in New South Wales is, not that it’s a poor kind of a
rag, but that it is any rag at all. Certainly the local
paper reports the local news, but that is seldom a
penn’orth—quite a lot of papers have to charge sixpence
to make things worthwhile —and the Sydney'dailies are
the sole source of general news. Yet in spite of this the
country papers fight each other on every available occa-
sion, and when two of them meet in one town they
quarrel like cats shut in a bag. Orange boasts
two dailies —they were bi-weeklies or tri-weeklies
once, but in the effort to get ahead of each
other they became dailies, and would probably
become hourlies if they could, and this rivalry is enough
to make a stranger weep. The result of the general poor-
ness of the country press is reflected in their advertise-
ment rates. Theatrical ads., for instance, run at 2s. or
2s. 6d. for the first inch, and Is. 6d. each additional inch ;
in some cases it is Is. 6d. all through ; and there is a dis-
count on the whole bill—if the bill happens to be paid.
InM.L. the same advertisements would cost 4s. and 35.,
and 3s. and 25., and on the whole there w'ould be better
value for the money.
• * # *
“Snell”: I have just been told of an extraordinary
happening, which is substantiated to a certain extent by
independent evidence. The hero is a journalist who can
afford to drink lager with his devilled oysters now-a-
nights, but not long back he was writing scrap para-
graphs, and scattering them over the place in the hope
that a few would drift into print and earn him rent and
bread. He was living in a small room in a dingy
old building over a tobacconist’s, and of late so
few of his paragraphs had found openings that
the seedy proprietor of the shabby apartment had fixed
the day and hour of the ejectment, and Penn didn’t know
where to go next. He was doing a bitter think, when his
raised window rattled in the breeze, and a fo-note blew
in. Penn might have thought it a miracle, only he looked
out of the window and saw much excitement in the street
below, where a portly warehouseman had dropped a roll
of notes, and was dancing in agony as they floated about
in the high wind. Penn did not return that fiver. He
says that would have been flying in the face of Providence ;
and perhaps, after all, it would have been.
* * * *
“ N.”: The veteran sits hard on the shoulders of a news-
paper, like Sinbad's Old Man of the Sea, curling his thin
legs round its throttle. Now there was a dinner to newly-
made editor Cunningham, of the Argus, the other night.
The youngsters were, of course, allowed helow the salt,
but apparently no man under 50 was permitted to make a
speech. Yet a special corollary of Cunningham’s well-
earned elevation is the forcing up of young blood. There
is always a danger, on every paper, of venerables sticking
so firmly together that in the end they have to be shunted
in a bunch. Then they slide, like plaster saints off the
board on the head of a Dago when he is tripped up.
« * * *
i “Genung”: My first job was on a weekly paper in
i Ballarat. I was bound apprentice by an anxious father
! to learn type-setting, but mighty little of that I learned.
I found out many other things. Our “news” consisted
principally of twelve columns of “ jars ” to more or less
respectable gentlemen and more or less virtuous ladies.
Each of the little towns round Ballarat had its weekly
half-column of such matter as this : “ B.J. should use the
same stuff to color his nose as his wife does for her cheeks.
It is cheaper, and doesn’t smell so strong”; or, “Why
does Joe T. stay at home now at nights? Is he afraid of
Maggie’s big brother ? Oh, you naughty man ! ” The
circulation was enormous. One week it reached 2000.
The boss ran the rabbit that night seven times.
At the head of the leading article, or more often where
that unread thing should be, was a notice :
“ All contributions to the column of Personalities must
be accompanied by the sum of threepence in penny-
stamps for each item.”
Sometimes they were, sometimes not, but they were all
published. The boss was a careless sort in money-
matters, and would go through his mail—sometimes a
hundred letters —revising and altering items, and nearly
alwa.ys forgetting the stamps. As soon as he went out
for his “eye-opener” we boys formed a co-operative
party, and went through the waste-paper basket looking
for our wages.
At last the boss went too far. He had a par in-
quiring why Jeremy Bones, a very leading citizen, was
doing some extra-bad wickedness. Bones went out and
bought up some of the boss’s liabilities, and set the law
in swift motion. A few days after, while we were dissing,
a posse of police and bailiffs marched in. One of them
shoved a blue paper into the boss’s face —all “whereas”
and “therefore.” Then they set to work, took the
machinery' to pieces, put it and type and all on to a dray,
and carted the things off, leaving the boss flooding the
air with curses. I asked him what I should do next, and
he threw a bucket of “pie” at me. That ended my first
job.
* * * *
In his posthumous “memoirs,” English journalist
Wemyss Beid says he regularly wrote 1500-word leaders
in from forty to fifty' minutes. Also, he rather enjoyed
writing with people talking around him, and felt no
difficulty' in joining in the conversation. The accom-
plishment is accounted for by the fact that in his early
day*s he had to turn out his Monday leaders thus rapidly',
or miss catching the long-distance train which took him
for a Saturday*to-Monday visit to his best girl. Best girls
have a lot to answer for.
Arbor Day, depicted by “ H.G.”
A great example of the perversion of an excellent idea
to base ends is provided in the so-called Arbor D .V
brations, conducted by the Victorian Education Depart-
ment. Tbev were intended to instil a love of the beauties
of nature into the infant mind, and at the same time to
enlarge the timber supply and furnish healthy exercise.
They have degenerated into “loyal functions at ''hicl
local councillors turn out in the unwonted discomfort oi
frockcoat and ill-fitting belltopper to spell-bind in aitch-
less frenzy about “ the throne and empire, while
one of their number stoops with difficulty oyer a Bent-
like bingv to shove one anaemic sprig into the earth as
the signal for the local brass band to beef out a discordant
“ Gawsave.” Minister of Eduction Sachse stated, a year
or two back, that the Education Department would one
day be self-supporting, through the sale of the valuable
timbers planted by the children. According to present
indications, there won’t be sufficient timber from this
source to provide the teachers with walloping-material,
but there will be a coming - generation that is gone in the
legs, its supports having been worn out in infancy,
through weary hours of standing about to listen to the
shouts of officious municipal potentates.
Sydney Trades and Labor Council is
letting the public into the secrets of the success
of the people who are able to keep motors, race-
horses, yachts and other fast things. It lies in
the miserable wages paid to milliners, shop-assist-
ants and dressmakers by the chiffon kings. A
woman is put in charge of a department—say
dressmaking or millinery—and to make her room
pay, and make her salary (which is anything from
£3 to £7 in big houses) she must sweat the girls.
The rate of wages is fixed by her, as she is sup-
posed to know the capabilities of each worker;
needless to state, she doesn’t overrate them.
• Overcrowding is another evil, and it is a common
practice, when the inspector calls, to send the sur-
plus girls out of the room on various pretexts,
with a caution not to return untill the coast is
clear. Singular as it appears on the surface, still
it is a fact that most of the employees regard the
inspector as their natural enemy.
“HYS BOKE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah ! the book he might have written,
Aye, have written years ago,
When the Muse was ever-gracious,
And Hope not all mendacious ;
When the river-song, a-ripple, ran in clear andjendless
flow.
And Life’s mirage fond, fallacious,
Rose-redden’d all the spacious
Sounding concave of the dome, whence, pure as snow,
The clouds went out a-sailing
Towards where day’s glory 7 failing
Returned to blaze anew in one splendid after-glow.
Years agone—full years of pleasure,
With no time to count the treasure
As his rapt heart joined in concert with the music of the
spheres.
Years all joy withouten measure,
One long deep-drawn draught of pleasure,
Years of ecstacy ineffable bey r ond the depths of tears.
Now, he’s glad that book's not written,
Sure, his heart was on his sleeve,
What time fond youth was smitten
With the love of “ make-believe ” ;
Diffuse and crude the phrases,
The sober judgment says ;
At Hampton Court the maze is
Less devious in its ways,
lie’s certain now his script is
Far safer where it lies
Than scattered wide in pica large
Before a people’s eyes.
VIC.
G. G. M‘C.


AFTER TWELVE YEARS
Of Suffering' from Indigestion a Sydney Woman Finds
Quick Relief and a Cure.
SHE SAYS SHE .OWES HER GOOD
HEALTH TO
MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP.
Mrs. Emma Relton is to-day a hearty, plesant-
faeed woman, living at 218 George-street, Circular
Quay, Sydney, where her husband carries on
business as a tailor. For nearly a dozen years she
was a great sufferer from indigestion, and was
hardly ever able to enjoy a meal. She tried
many kinds of medicine, and had treatment from
doctors, but with no lasting benefit, and finally
lost all hope of being cured. In 1900 a friend
persuaded her to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup In
a letter, dated March 2nd, 1900, she says
A HAPPY WOMAN NOW.
“ taking only three small bottles .1 could
eat and sleep better than I had dime for years,
and was able to relish my food. This relief was in
itself a great boon, and. feeling encouraged by it,
I went on using the Syrup, gaining health and
strength from every dose, until, after emptying
six bottles, more, I was feeling perfectly well again,
and 1 have remained well ever since. Mother
Seigel s Syrup is the sole cause of my cure, and is
the.best medicine I know of, and I always keep it
hapdy in the house.”
Mother Seigel's Syrup is made entirely from
the extracts of roots, barks, and leaves, and is
Nature’s own remedy for Indigestion, Bilious-
ness, Constipation, Headaches, Wind, Palpi-
tation, and all disorders of the Stomach.
Liver, Kidneys and Bowels.
ell
f' 1
Gives
Permanent
Polish*
Preserves and
Cleans the
Leather,
Sold by all Store-
keepers and Boot
and Shoe Shops.
By Royal
Warrant to
d
His Majesty
The King*
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &c.,
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
THE ACODBDEON for Country Residents.
fds
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
<T*"ft Postage to any Address
' IwC oG# ■ ■ in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s CJgij
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/(5 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to 100/- , v
HEINDORFF BROS
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 2io Queen St., Brisbane
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We Rive away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any'size'hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of pur.New Life Vegetable Bills (Formula) printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
VVe are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Bills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
E/ectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
£IOG
a WeeK
Given
Away
m.
■
Free
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How toGet Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is, 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. ' Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard ELOctr-'
tionist, latest edition,, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’S’
Big Horse Book- and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
WindowTicketWriting Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond,Ms ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illns. , Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Slagnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind tiie Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d- The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. . PrOf. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chronios. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS -FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand Questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy ip consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out, of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
AJSTY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 409. Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, SolderiXp, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. PiAno Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, ls*,post’ed. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man Ills Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator',- Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddEn’s Physical Trainino, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. ' On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |)*“ Established 20 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT
♦
Write for my
gig illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
RKMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL -NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Sd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post! Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d.post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, ES. HOW TO READ HEAPS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Mother, '3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each, posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s: Large Un-.
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted; The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE EOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
WOOL
SHEEPSKINS
lit & Ft CO., Lt
TALLOW
SYDNEY.
HIDES
Jl\e Xatjcet describes it as —
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.’'
Zi}3 British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excel.ence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
>
FOOD
Bender’s rooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
‘‘Bend ’Or,” on an undesirable sort of
citizen :
The professional lunatic is a type known in many hos-
pitals for the insane. This bogus inhabitant of Bedlam
leaves one asylum with the set purpose of getting into
another as soon as his little capital is worked out. The
States have a happy knack of passing this undesirable on
to one another, A free railway pass to the nearest border
town brings the malingerer within the lunacy law of
another State. He has been put on the train at the other
end with half-a-sovereignanda newrig-oot, perhapsaswag
Alighting, he proceeds to have a good time on his limited
capital and the proceeds of the asylum-made clothes.
Perhaps-he strikes a patch, and hangs on to a man who
is knocking down his cheque. He has a keen eye for these
genuine lunatics, and, being a plausible rogue, fattens on
them to the final and ultimate bean. At last he faces a
future absolutely unrelieved by the hope of a single beer.
He then proceeds to work the “system.” He generally
chooses a public place in broad daylight, turns his coat
inside out, hat ditto, and proceeds to be a wildly irre-
sponsible atom dancing on the face of the earth. A crowd
.collects. Then a policeman assembles, and makes an
arrest on a charge of being unusual and disorderly.
Throughout his meanderings the bogus lunatic has pre-
served his certificate of discharge from the last asylum,
and this being found on him when he is searched, is con-
sidered by the examining medico—generally not a
specialist in insanity—as proof that he has got hold of a
relapsed case. Committed to the nearest mental hos-
pital, the wandering one gets good food, bed and extra
diet called'medical comforts (which include! even beer)
until, fattened with good living on an idle life, he feels
the call for freedom again. Then he begins to drop the
wild expression out of his face, and to walk soberly and
put off Iris antic, disposition, and is soon discharged as
ured.
- Tusi Ata ” : Curious what a fascination
exotic names have for most people. Notice that
one of your (rejected) correspondents—a lady,
judging by her pretty-sounding nom de 'plume—
has chosen a pen-name that would bring a blush
into the face of the most hardened Samoan
damsel. A N.S.W. railway station also bears a
most untranslatable Maori name, and among the
many ..suburban villas with South Sea. titles I
have noticed a few whose real meaning is most
likely hidden from the occupants. They are
generally said to mean something like “ Pleasant
View” or “Butterfly Arbor,” or thereabouts.
Sometimes they do, but I know for certain that
sometimes they don’t. Came across one, foT in-
stance, the literal translation of which is “Vomit-
ing upon the Qeean.” A pleasant name that for a
home !
Homo Rule for Ireland is likely to come,-
after all, in a perfectly quiet sort of way, and
with no insectoriarifuss. Lloyd George, a member
of the Bannerman Ministry, recommends local
Legislatures for Ireland, Scotland, and Wales
(and presumably for England also) on the ground
that the old Mother of Parliaments is sagging
down and on the point of breaking in the middle
through overloading, arid has. really only time to
be an Imperial Parliament. That is where-the
Unionist movement must go to pieces ultimately.
Whether Unionists like it or not, there will have
to-be an Irish Parliament and other local Parlia-
ments, because old Ma Parliament in London is
breaking up with fatigue and a load of details.


VICTORIA
Co 11 in s & Swa nsfon $* Mel bourne
WEST.AUSTRALIA , f v.
Hay St Perth ft (l
QUEENSLAND r VV *
Queens EdwardS* 5 Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
865143 Queen St. Auckland
18-3 LambfeonQuay. Wellington.
256 5233 HighS 1 ; Christchurch. 1
Princes 5 DowlingS* Dunedin.
f
CORNER, GEQRcr <tT SYDH^L
(JTwUwlwlwl»
Ifits from t _
[Stewart Dawsons
its good.
U Write the
store nearest \
you.
ggaccooaoaowft
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered \\J
Free on receipt of remittance. '
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
It is Important to Know this ! Diamonds are steadily increasing in price and from
the latest market reports this is bound to continue. All these pieces of fine Diamond Jewellery were
mounted up when Diamonds were a good deal lower than they are to-day. It would be impossible for
us to duplicate one of the pieces shown at the prices they are now marked—we would want from
15 per cent, to 25 per cent. more. If you want to benefit by the low prices here shown, do not delay.
G 3050. —Fine Gold ITalf-lloop Bangle, set Rubies and
Diamonds, £2O.
Fine Diamond New Moon Rrooeh, £32 10s.
Smaller, £2l.
Finest Diamond Cluster Bangle, Turquoise Centre, £4O.
Fine Diamond and 15ct. Gold Clover Leaf Brooch, £lB 10s
No. CM4 —15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond Cluster Bracelet
Brooch and Pendant combined. Price £45.
Very Fine Half-Hoop Diamond Bangle, £lO5.
Smaller size, £55.
Ruby, Pearl and Diamond, or Sapphire, Pearl and
Diamond Brooch, £5 10s.
No. 155—Elegant Scroll Brooch, 18 Fine Diamonds,
2 Whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires, £8 10s.
Earrings, Fine
White Dia-
monds, £6O.
Fine Gold Shamrock Brooch, set Diamonds and
Emeralds, £lO 10s.
Earrings, Fine
White Dia-
monds, £lB 10s.
No. G‘2687. —Fashionable Rose, Diamond and Olivine Lizard
Brooch, £l4 10s. Set Pearls and Olivines, £6 10s.
No. 01456.
Diamond Crescent
Brooch,' £l5 10s.
Larger size, £26 10s.
15ct. Gold Domed Links, set
Fine White Diamonds,
£lO pair.
The Fashionable Brooch, Knife-edge Bar, with 5
stones set singly, 16ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Sapphires, £22 10s, £45 ; Diamonds and
Emeralds, £2l, £25 ; Diamonds and Whole
Pearls, £l5 10s, £3O; Diamonds and Opals,
£l6 10s, £3O ; Diamonds only, £22 10s.
Fine Diamond Star Brooch or
Pendant, £57 10s.
Fine Diamond Sun Burst Brooch
or Hair Ornament, £52 10s.
No. 567—Fine Diamonds, Rubies
and Pearls, 15cfc. Gold Brooch,
£6 10s.
Magnificent Pure White Single Stone Diamond Collar Necklet, £250.
Worth quite 25 per cent. more.
Very Fine Single Stone Diamond Brooch, £32 10s.
Fine Gold New Moon Brooch, set Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s.
15ct. Gold Bracelet, set with 20 Diamonds and 9 Opals.
An exquisite piece of jewellery. Price £35.
No. E 5105. —Fine Diamond and Opal New Moon
Brooch, larger size than shown, 34 Diamonds,
13 Opals, £3O. Three inches long.
Splendid Diamond Bangle, Leaf Centre, £47 10s.
Fine Diamond, Pearl and Sapphire Brooch,
15et. Gold, £l4 10s.
No. G33o2—Exquisite Brilliant White Diamond and
Emerald Cluster Brooch, £l4O.
©
Fine Diamond Cluster Bangle, £3O.
Fine Diamond Spray Brooch, £l7 10s.
No. 157 A.—Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine Diamonds,
2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. G2s39.—Fine Diamond Scroll New Moon Brooch, £35. Smaller size,
with Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and Sapphires, £l6 10s.
Fine Diamond Corsage or Hair Dagger, £B5. If with Pearls and Turquoise, £8 10s.
No. 152 —Pine Gold Scroll-Pattern Bangle, Set Fine
White Diamonds, £32 10s.
No. CMs—lsct. Gold and Finest Opal and Diamond Scroll
and Cluster Bangle. Price £45.
No. 156—Scroll and Cluster Combination Brooch and Bangle,
Fine Gold, set all'Diamonds, £27 10s,


, -
VN
WHAT PEPS ARE.
PEPS are a germicide and
antiseptic of the highest
value in colds, coughs, bron-
chitis, sore throat, or tight-
ness of the chest. Their won-
derful healing essences are
brought into direct contact
with the diseased surfaces of
the throat and lungs. Liquid
cough mixtures, merely swal-
lowed into the stomach, do
not reach the seat of disease
as Peps do. Between the
stomach and the lungs there
is no direct connection, and
all lung and bronchial disease
must be treated direct. Peps
do this. They strengthen the
actual tissues of the lung and
wind-pipe. They bring won-
derful relief to the asthmatic
victim, and cure the worst
influenza cold. No home can
afford to be without this
remarkable medicine.
BRONCHITIS EVILS,
BRONCHITIS means in-
flammation of the delicate
membrane lining the tubes
that carry pure air into the
lungs. The membrane lining
these air-passages is extremely
sensitive to sudden change and
chill. The rational treatment
is by breathing in the pine
fumes emitted from a few Peps
as they dissolve on the tongue.
It is the method that is most
certain. The whole of the
inflamed air-passages and the
nasal organs will be bathed in
the soothing and healing in-
fluence of Peps. The painful
inflammation is allayed, the
glands that secrete the mucous
are helped back to their normal
activity. Of all Chemists,
Is. Gd. per box, or direct from
the PEPS PASTILLE CO.,
39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
L
***• .V-
f
wai Cute the WORST COLD, . . .
. . . Combat the WORST COUGH.
Citv of Newcastle Gas Co. (N.S.W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901.. £3137 15 per cent. = £lBB5 £1252 £41153
Dec., 1901.. 2494 15 „ „ „ 1885 609 44,762
June, 1902.. 2660 15 „ „ ~ 1885 775 45,537
Dee., 1902.. 3499 15 „ „ ~ 2180 1319 46,856
June, 1903.. 2778 15 „ „ ~ 2574 204 47,060
Dec., 1903.. 3280 15 ~ ~ ~ 2969 311 47,371
June, 1904.. 3309 15 ~ ~ ~ 3264 45 47 416
Dec., 1904.. 3630 15 „ „ ~ 3312 318 47,734
Share premiums and suspense items 3309 51,043
June,1905.. 3835 15 „ ~ „ 3375 460 51’503
Dec., 1905.. 3544 15 „ ~ ~ 3375 169 51,672
June, 1906.. 4111 15 „ „ ~ 3375 736 52,408
The reserves consist of a formal reserve of £20,010, re-
serve for renewals, &c., £29,675, meter fund £1063, insur-
ance fund £450, and undivided profit £l2lO. The nature of
the renewals reserve is not clear. Current renewals (ordi-
nary) appear to be charged to profit and loss, and this
reserve seems to be provision for extraordinary renewals
that the future may call for. It is added to as a rule by
£5OO per half-year. If £5OO is a fair thing to cover a
half-year’s decay, in addition to the amount spent on
renewals and charged direct to profit and loss, then that
£5OO should come off the profits shown above. But that
is probably in excess of the requirements. The co. is
strong financially. Besides works and landed property
(£77,099),.it has £14,532 in N.S.W. public stocks, and,
after clearing off all its debts to the public and paying
the present dividend, it has a surplus of £5763
of other liquid assets. If the works, &c., are
worth £77,099 depends upon whether they ’ have
been kept written down (in other words, whether the
renewal reserve shown on the other side of the balance-
sheet is a true reserve and not merely a reserve against
actual depreciation). The total assets certainly return
as much as £7 2s. 6d. per cent, on the year’s profit-figures
as shown above. But a high return doesn’t necessarily
mean that a gas co.’s assets are sound; because a main
which has served 15 out of its (say) 20 years will earn just
as much as if it were fresh in the ground. In any case,
however, this co., besides paying 15 percent., and paying
for repairs as it goes, is making ample provision for extra-
ordinary renewals, and it has the actual funds to make
them with.
• » * *
Goulbukn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 .. £BO2 15 p.c. =£7so £52 £5979
June, 1902 .. 762 15 „,, 750 12 5991
Dec., 1902 .. 942 15 ~ „ 750 192 6183
June, 1903 .. 938 15 ~ „ 750 188 6371
Dec., 1903 .. 953 15 ~ ~ 750 203 6574
June, 1904 1160 15 ~ ~ 750 410 6984
Dee., 1904 .. 1180 15 ~ „ 750 430 7414
June, 1905 .. 1111 15 „ „ 750 361 7775
Dec., 1905 .. 1205 15 „ „ 750 455 8230
June, 1906 .. 997 15 „ „ 750 247 8477
The reserves consist of reserve fund, £5200; plant
renewal, £2039; meter renewal, £lO2B ; undivided profit,
£2lO. Most likely the plant renewal and meter accounts
are not true reserves, being a set-off against actual
depreciation ; and the amount added to these reserves in
the half-year (£145) is in that ease not true profit. The
fixed investments amount to £12,565. Five years ago
they amounted to £13,061. Apparently, there-
fore, in addition to the renewal reserve, general
provision is being made for depreciation by writing down
works out of profits. The money thus accumulated is
being kept in liquid assets. Five years ago these
amounted to £4333 ; they are now £7ll4—before pay-
ment of div. in both cases. The capital is £lO,OOO. The
position is strong, and the financial management appa-
rently very satisfactory.
* * * *
TamWorTh Gas and Coke Co. (Tamworth
N.S.W.):—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves
June, 1902 .. £692 10 p.c. =£soo £192 £1706
Dec. 1902 .. 699 10 ~ ~ 500 199 1965
June, 1903 .. 623 10 „ „ 500 £lOO 23 1988
Dec., 1903 .. 571 10 „ „ 546 25 2013
June, 1904 .. 642 10 „ „ 546 100 2009
Dec., 1904 .. 631 10 „ „ 546 85 2094
June, 1905 .. 635 10 ~ „ 546 89 2183
Dec., 1905 .. 597 10 „ „ 546 51 2234
Tune, 1906 .. 595 10 „ „ 546 49 2283
As far as can be seen, no provision whatever is made for
lepreciation, the profits not being charged with anything
ior wear and tear. All additions, if not renewals also,
ippear to be charged to capital, instead of being paid for
>ut of revenue ; so that no depreciation is being provided
’or in that way. It is, therefore, reasonably clear (1) that
he reserves shown above are more or less fictitious ; (2)
hat the profit shown above is not real profit; (3) that the
lividend is being paid in part out of capital. To prevent
lisaster by-and-bye, the dividend ought to be reduced.
The Brighton Gas Co. (Brighton, Yic.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £1686 5 p.c. = £lll7 £391 £l7B £2706
Tune, 1902.. 1462 5 „ „ 1117 465 2586
Dec., 1902.. 1524 5 „ ~ 1117 324 83 2669
Tune, 1903.. 1526 5 „ „ 1117 408 1 2670
Oec., 1903.. 1769 5 „ „ 1117 242 410 3080
tune, 1904.. 1831 6 ~ ~ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904.. 2097 6 „ „ 1340 352 405 3633
rune, 1905.. 2172 6 „ „ 1340 275 557 4190
Oec., 1905.. 2428 6 „ ~ 1340 269 819 5009
rune, 1906.. 2285 6 „ „ 1340 386 559 5568
?lant, buildings, mains, &c., cost £46,623. From this
£3109 has been written off out of profits, and another
68285 has been spent on repairs and renewals. If these
;wo sums together cover the whole depreciation, then
;he reserves as shown above are genuine and solid. For
it least three years past nothing has, however, been
vritten off to cover general depreciation, the amounts
ihown as written off having been spent upon repairs
ind renewals ; so the chances seem to be that
Re true profits and reserves are less than shown.
Caking the average thus spent as £6OO a year, it amounts
;o under 1J per cent, on plant, buildings, and meters ;
md that is probably not enough. Still, in this matter,
his co. is by no means a great sinner among gas cos.
Further, though it has not accumulated much in the way
)f liquid assets to provide for extraordinary renewals in
,he future, it has not drifted into debt ; it could pay all
ts bills and have £1366 of liquid assets to spare. Its
msiness, moreover, is extending; in January-June, 1901,
ts revenue for gas and by products was £3543 ; in the
jast half-year it was £4656. And expenses have not
ncreased proportionately.
The Newcastle - Wallsend Coal Co.,
N.S.W.):—
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec,, 1900 .. £10,183 20 p.c. = £lO,OOO £lB3 £51,654
lung, 1901 .. 15,534 30 „ „ 15,000 534 52,188
Dec., 1901 .. 17,968 35 „ „ 17,500 468 52,656
June, 1902 .. 17,645 35 ~ „ 17,500 145 52,801
Dec., 1902 .. 17,673 35 ~ ~ 17,500 173 52,974
June, 1903 .. 15,202 30 ~ ~ 15,000 202 53,176
Pec,, 1903 .. 9,566 20 „ „ iO,OOO 52,742
June, 1904 .. 4,009 15 ~ „ 7,500 49,251
Dec,, 1904 .. 5,003 10 „ „ 5,000 3 49,254
June, 1905 .. 5,027 10 ~ „ 5,000 27 49,281
pec,, 1905 .. 3,759 10 ~ ~ 5,000 48,040
June, 1906 .. 5,093 10 „ „ 5,000 93 48,133
This is one of those very rare mining cos. that
have actually got their reserves in cash or its
equivalent. The equivalent is stated merely as
“loans”; and that --certainly isn’t very definite.
Also it isn’t possible to say what the loans are earning,
as all receipts are lumped. But though the co. has its
reserves in cash or its equivalent, there is a doubt as to
whether all its capital is represented by assets ; in other
words, it isn’t too sure whether the reserves are really
reserved at all, “ Mining property, including buildings,
tunnel, pits, &e.,” are down for £94,422 ; and at June,
1900, they were down for only £90,603. In those six
years a vast quantity of coal has been taken out, and the
mine—pits, tunnel and all—has got six years nearer the
time when it will be a mere hole in the ground ; and yet,
no doubt because something has been added to the plant,
the mine is taken in at £3SI9 more than it was six years
ago. It is pretty certain, then, that the reserves are not
real reserves, but at best only funds for the return of
capital. Certainly, most mining cos. have not provided
even that much. They make payments, and call them
dividends, whereas they are to a great extent merely
distributions of assets.
* * * *
V.4LK OF Clwydd Coal-mining Co. (N.S.W.): —
To Ke- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1900 .. £1,648 10 p.c. = £1,500 £l4B £757
June, 1901 .. 1,546 10 „ ~ 1,500 46 803
Dec., 1901 .. 1,899 10 „ „ 1,500 389 1,202
June, 1902 .. 1,794 10 ~ ~ 1,500 294 1,496
Dec., 1902 .. 1,518 10 „ ~ 1,500 18 1,514
June, 1903 .. 1,541 10 „ ~ 1,500 41 1,555
Dec., 1903 .. 1,880 10 ~ ~ 1,500 380 1,935
June, 1904 .. 1,618 10 „ „ 1,500 118 2,053
Loss.
Dec., 1904 .. 157 5 „ „ 750 1,146
Profits.
June, 1905 .. 1,606 10 ~ „ 1,500 106 1,252
Dec., 1905 .. 2,269 10 ~ ~ 1,500 769 2,021
June, 1906 .. 1,720 10 ~ „ 1,500 220 2,241
Apparently plant and other property are being written
down out of profits not shown above ; but the process is
slow, and the extent uncertain. At December 31st, 1904,
plant was valued at £6650 ; it now stands at£6ooo. Free-
hold, &c., which stood at £15,034 18 months ago, stands
at £14,786 now ; but as apparently there have been some
purchases meantime, the full amount written off this
item is not ascertainable. In 1905, however, £5OO appears
to have been written off. Consequently, though the re-
serves are small, they are probably genuine, and so are
the profits as set out above. But, instead of the amount
written off being invested in permanent securities, the
whole of the savings of the past 18 months have gone to
wipe out the liability incurred over the John McLaughlin
share-transfer trouble. At December 31st, 1904, just
after the matter had gone against the co., £2149 was
entered as a suspense liability ; the item even now hasn’t
disappeared finally, but all except £l5B of the liability
has been wiped out. There may now, therefore, be a
chance to increase the deposits (representing reserve fund
and a fund for the return of capital), which in the past 18
months have only grown from £8365 to £8541. After
paying the dividend, the co.’s surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities is £11,305. At December 31st, 1904, it was
£9313, or £1992 less. The capital is £30,000.
JiiCHARDSON and Wkenoh, Ltd. (Sydney), pro-
perty valuers, salesmen, &c.: —
Deficit
(Good-
in will not
Reduc- reak-
tion of oned an
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Asset).
June, 1901 £2,517 5 p.c. = £1,500 £1,017 £48,483
Dee., 1901 3,313 5 ~ „ 1,500 1,813 46,670
June, 1902 3,263 5 „ „ 1,500 1,763 44,907
Dec., 1902 2,993 5 „,, 1,500 1,493 43,414
June, 1903 1,746 5 „ „ 1,500 246 43,168
Dec., 1903 2,055 5 „,, 1,500 555 42,613
June, 1904 1,611 5 „ „ 1,600 111 42,502
Dec., 1904 1,622 5 „ „ 1,500 122 42,380
June, 1905 1,661 5 ~ „ 1,500 161 42,219
Dec., 1905 1,730 5 ~ „ 1,500 230 41,989
June, 1906 1,830 5 „ „ 1,500 330 41,659
Goodwill originally represented £57,500 of the total capi-
tal of £60,000 ; so that on that account alone, and pre-
suming there were no formation expenses handed over to
the co. to wipe out, Richardson and Wrench, Ltd., began
with a deficit of £57,500. In 17 years it has wiped out
£15,841 of it, and has good Treasury bills or solid cash
balances to show for that amount instead of vapory rights
to use two people’s names and pretend that it was those
people when everybody knew it wasn’t. Besides a small
amount (£713) of commissions in suspense, the co. has
now liquid assets £16,971 in excess of liabilities to the
public and the current dividend ; and, even though the
Sydney land-boom refuses to boom above a whisper, and
this eo.’s trading profits are consequently limp, the
gradual growth of liquid assets makes it an easier matter
to maintain the 5 per cent, dividend. Apart from the
name and the business and the office mat and the ink-pot,
the co. now owns something’ like ss. Bd. per share.
» * • *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)-
Applied
to Re-
Written duce
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1901.. £5BB 5 p.c. =£437 £227 £14,649
June, 1902.. 573 5 „ „ 437 107 £29 14,620
Dec., 1902.. 518 5 „ „ 437 44 37 14,583
June, 1903.. 344 5 ~ ~ 437 14,676
Dec., 1903.. 410 5 „ „ 437 14,703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 Nil 14,802
Profit.
Dec., 1904.. 120 Nil 120 14,682
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c.= 437 28 14,654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437 14,701
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil 15,341
The deficit is probably more than this, as there is an item
“Improvement account, £1192,” among the assets, and
this is probably to some extent a goodwill item. (Of the
capital of £17,500, £15,000 is represented by goodwill,
which, being a paper asset, is here disregarded.) Without
allowing anything for depreciation, the ordinary profits
for the half-year were £343 ; but the co. has been in the
courts, at a cost of £983 ; hence the loss of £640 shown
for the term. The co.’s tangible assets, including stocks,
cash, sundry debtors, and expenses paid in advance
amount to £1372. Its liabilities total £1339. Surplus,
£33. Apart from goodwill and the doubtful improvement
and furniture accounts (£2125), that is all there is to
show for the capital of £17,500.
* * * *
Watson’s Bay and South Shore Ferry Co.
(Sydney)
Apparent To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1902 £l4O
1903 .. £1564 6 per cent. = £464 £llOO 1240
1904 .. 1208 6 „ „ 433 775 2015
1905 .. 1154 6 „ „ 433 721 2736
1906 .. 1867 6 „ „ 433 1434 4170
This is another case in which the public must make its
own allowance for depreciation ; and an asset that bumps
against a pier as often as a harbor ferry must depreciate
something considerable. The co. itself first shows (profit
and loss account) £967 as profit; and from that it appro-
priates £776 for depreciation—it had previously charged
profit and loss with £9OO direct, and added the amount
to depreciation account. If this means that £1676 is a
fair thing to charge for the year’s wear and tear, then
the net profits are cut down to £l9l, and a 6 per
cent, dividend should not have been paid ; if it
means that £9OO is written off for depreciation which has
occurred, and £776 is set aside to provide for future de-
preciation, then the two should not be turned into the
same account —one is a genuine reserve and the other
isn’t. It may also mean that £9OO is reckoned a fair
amount for the year’s wear and tear, but that there was
previous wear and tear which had not been provided for,
and £776is written off to cover or to help to cover it. In
that case previous profits were not as good as represented.
In any case, it isn’t satisfactory that figures in a balance-
sheet should be capable of meaning so many things. A
further comparison gives these results: —
1903. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Receipts .. .. £6,660 £7,181 £7,802 £8,829
Outgoings .. 5,097 5,972 6,648 7,512
Steamer property .. 11,916 11,803 14,226 19,394
Debt to public ’. .. 3,239 2,489 4,147 7,930
Of the debt to the public £5924 is now shown as owing on
debentures ; and there was £3024 of preference capital al-
ready. (The total share capital is £7221.) The line “ out-
goings” is worth less than it ought to be because the vari-
able amount charged direct for wear and tear cannot be
separated from other items; and a special expense,
“Contribution for Clovelly resumption, £350,” is not
included in the past year’s outgoings. Receipts have
grown satisfactorily, but the debt iq large ; ordi-
nary < shareholders will see that two people
now stand between them and dividends; and it is
doubtful whether any of the reserves are real reserves.
On the other hand, after paying 6 per cent, and providing
for current repairs, over £2750 has been put into new
property in three years—equal to a writing-off of just
over £9OO a year: qqd that is 6£ per cent, per annum on
the average holding of ship property. If that is just
enough to cover depreciation, then nothing really beyond
the bare div. has been earned. There doesn’t seem to be
much over that.


TATTERSALL’S
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
ROSEHILL CUP, Rosehill, N.S.W., September 15 -
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., October 1
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Victoria, October 20 -
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6
50,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5 2 each.
100,000 each 5/2 and 10/4.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905 , the TctSIYICMiCM Government Stamp TctX i 2d.
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may e orwar ec lou » 1 J
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booicing Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
9
§
fl
W
IM
.j-;r
jkYWMVt
m Wo Wottvev sYva\x\&\» ft
ow request.
Apropresswe d/etary adapted to t/?e grow/ftp d/gest/Ve powers
Milk Food IN?I
fro/77 6/rt/> to 3 mo/)f/?s
Milk Food N? 2
From 3 to 6 months
Malted Food IN?3
fro/7? 6 mont/zs ezpzvs/r/s.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILEI THROUGH
DRUNK!
ENNESS
.DON'T DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABIT
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE.
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure," absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshing sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cores ; here is one :
Ravenithorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
Have finished the half course, ichich has
effected a cure. / have no desire for drink ,
in fact , have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Tosted Free.
The Dr. Langston institute,
1 2 9a COLLINS STREET,
IVP ’-BOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THCE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEJWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
TERRIBLE COUGH CAUSED BY MEASLES.
IMPROVED IMMEDIATELY AND QUICKLY CURED
BY HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send me by return post
one large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, for which please
find payment enclosed. I had a terrible cough caused by
measles. It was tearing me to pieces. I chanced to have
a small quantit}' of your Bronchitis Cure, took one dose,
and improved immediately. I like to always have some
on hand. It is well worth a testimonial on account of
what it has done for me, and you are at liberty to make
use of what I Have written. This is not the first time it
has done me good.—Yours truly,
G. R. HOOK,
“ Hilslea,” Cjlyde, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
TWO CHILDREN IN ONE FAMILY CURED TWO
YEARS AGO BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH NOW.
HAVE NEVER HAD A SIGN OF THE ASTHMA SINCE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—lt is with pleasure I can say
that my two children, whom you treated two years ago
with your medicine for Asthma, are keeping in the best of
health. They have never had a sign of the Asthma since.
I always keep a bottle of your invaluable Bronchitis Cure
in the house now.
(Mrs.) L. EDGELL,
Smeaton, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE
THOROUGHLY CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF-EFFECT WONDERFUL.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l have-been very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
vour Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me immediate
relief, and after taking the second bottle I am thoroughly
cured. Its effect on me has been most wonderful. lam
73 years of age. I trust you will make use of this state-
ment by publishing it for the benefit of humanity
t>'eneral! v. Yours most respectfully,
* THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
DRY, HACKING COUGH FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
OTHER TREATMENT TOOK NO EFFECT.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —For twelve months or more I had a dry, hack-
ing' cough on my chest that used to trouble me terribly
at night-time. I was told it was a touch of Bronchitis. I
h ied different sorts of medicine, which took no effect, so
1 tried yonr Bronchitis Cure, which, I have much pleasure
in informing you, relieved me at once. It has completely
cured my cough. lam sure anyone can depend on your
medicine for a thorough and immediate cure.-—I remain,
yours truly, DAVID MATTHEWS,
Modewarre, Victoria.
INFLUENZA AND BRONCHITIS.
TEN YEARS SUFFERING WITH A TERRIBLE COUGH,
AND WASTING AWAY.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Twelve years ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza and Bronchitis, and for ten years was suffering
with a terrible cough and was wasting away. I had
medical attendance, and tried various medicines recom-
mended, but without success, until, on my daughter’s
recommendation, I used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, with
the result that it completely cured -me, and I am per-
fect! v free from any cough now. f- ■'
E. ASTALL,
116 Shields-street, Flemington,
Melbourne
BRONCHITIS.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS CURED BY OKE BOTTLE
OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO OTHER TREATMENT DID ANY GOOD.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —My daughter, 12 years of age, had a
cry bad cough that had been a trouble to her for years,
i tried every cough remedy I could get, but not one of
them seemed to do her any good. Then I tried ohe bottle
<,f your Bronchitis Cure, and she has never coughed since
-he finished it. lam glad to say the effect has been won-
derful/ —Yours, etc.,
J. BATSEN,
Homebush, Sydney, N.S.W.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. CL Hearne. ,
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonderful
cure your medicine has effected in my case. About three
years ago I began to cough. At first the cough was not
severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became very
weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my chest,
and great quantities of phlegm. On several occasions
there was blood in the expectorated matter. I had been
treated by a doctor, who pronounced my case to be
consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
beard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking- it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
.1. BLAIR,
Westminster-bridgfe Road, S‘.E., London. '
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH FOR
TWELVE YEARS. ’ -
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
NO : OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
Sir, —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from a most
distressing, suffocating, dry cough, that could not be
removed or even eased by any remedy, doctor’s prescrip-
tions, and patent medicines having been tried ; but I am
happy to state that the cough, pain in the chest, and
difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by the
fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. I remain, sir, yours
most respectfully,
WILLIAM CROCKETT,
Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, N.S.W.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE CURED BY ONE SMALL
BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small,"bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without
it:—-I remain yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
SEVERE BRONCHITIS.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HE ARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
IT ACTED LIKE MAGIC.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It affords me very much
pleasure to give you an unsolicited testimonial as to the
great merits of your wonderful Bronchitis Cure. I can
say without hesitation that as a chest medicine it has no
equal. Having had Bronchitis in a severe form it com-
pletely cured me, and now in the Winter months if I at
all contract a cold on the chest it gives me instant relief.
I have also.proved its efficacy with members of my
family, whom it has always cured of coughs, colds on the
chest, also sore throats. It has acted like magic. Sir,
you are deserving of the best thanks of the community
for introducing to suffering humanity such a valuable
medicine.
I remain, gratefully yours,
W. DUNCAN,
23 Normanby Street, Windsor, Victoria.
ASTHMA.
RELIEVED BY TWO DOSES OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Asthma, I have much pleasure in stating that your
Bronchitis Cure afforded me great relief after taking
two doses only. I have since proved its efficiency in
quickly curing a bad cold, and altogether my chest feels
stronger. I can strongly recommend it as the best medi-
cine for chest complaints and coughs, as I have tried them
all. Thanking you for the benefit that I have received.—
I am, Dear Sir, your faithfully, D. BEATTY,
Hume’s Buildings, 65 Willis Street,
Wellington, New Zealand.
COUGH.
DISTRESSING AND HACKING COUGH COMPLETELY
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Last winter my youngest
son, Herbert, who is rather weak on the chest, had a dry,
distressing, hacking cough which troubled the poor little
fellow very badly at night time. I tried many so-called
panaceas, without any appreciable effect. But after
using less than a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure I am
pleased to say that the child was cured and is now quite
well, all symptoms of the cough having entirely dis-
appeared. I have had much pleasure in recommending
vour magical medicine to my friends.—Believe me to be,
yours very gratefully, R. SHERIDAN KNOWLES,
“ Lillieslea,” Union Street,
Windsor, Victoria
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURB—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE. Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
branch Q^ ce . No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


CHILBLAINS
The Chilblain is a slow inflammation of the skin of
the hands or feet, attended with swelling, itching, and
burning pains. Weak circulation ot‘ the blood is the
principal cause. People with imperfect blood circulation
generally suffer from cold feet and cold hands, and if they
put them into cold water and then near a fire the chilblain
will be formed. If you suffer from cold feet, rub them
frequently with
It will stimulate the circulation, and the chilblain
will thus be prevented. If chilblains are formed, bathe
with Dr. Sheldon’s flagnetic Liniment, and then cover
the parts with a piece of cloth on which Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment has been put. It will relieve the
itching, stinging pains, and after a few applications will
effect a cure.
Obtainable Everywhere Is. 6d., Large Bottle 35., or will be
posted on receipt of price by SHELDON DRUG CO.,
15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
V
%
mi
*
1
For
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Qhill-on-the-Liver,
Influenza,
Weak Chests.
W For
Weak Backs,
Aching Kidneys,
Asthma, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.
A Remedy of over 50 years’ standing. Prescribed by Physicians and sold by Chemists in every part of the
civilized world. Guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium, or any poison whatever.
ALLCOCK’S—The Original and only Genuine Porous Plaster.
Publicans and Sinners.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MOSS was a chap pretty
well known by most shearers up North.
He had a pub. at Dixon Springs—who
Dixon was nobody knew, an’ the springs was
never rnore’n billabongs when I seen ’em. But,
one way’n another, there was a good bit of traffic
-on that road, and bein’ as how there was nowhere
■else to go to, Moss got it all.
Nice man, Moss was. His father was a Jew,
-an’ his mother a Scotchwoman, which ain’t a cross
calculated to produce ladies’ benev’lent societies.
There wasn’t nothin’ benev’lent about their son,
Saunders. He was a rum-looking chap, too—big
an’raw-boned, with a shock of red hair (that was
the Saunders), an’ a face like a ferret, black eves
an’ a hook nose (that was the Moss).
My oath, he was hard ! I’ve known plenty of
shanty-keepers, an’ it’s not a soft breed, but
Moss, of Dixon Springs, beat ’em all. He’d start
a cove on good grog—had a tremendous stock, he
had—an’ then when yer got goin’ an’ he had yer
cheque, he’d fill yer up with the slickest poison
any man ever dealt out. I’ve got down to The
Springs just after a big shed had cut out, an’ seen
the chaps lyin’ about like flies on a bit of sticky
flypaper— all done, and Moss with every one of
-their cheques in his safe. An’ when yer woke up
he d kick yer out without as much as one finger o’
whisky. “ Tank’s round at the back,” he’d say
“ don’t waste the water ! ”
Well, about Jim Cassidy. He was the only pal
I ever did have as wouldn’t go on the spree. Had
a missus an’ three kids, Jim had, an’ he thought
the sun shone out of them. He wasn’t one of yer
blasted teetotal wasters—but he’d stop at two or
three drinks; wouldn’t take a shout when there
was a crowd about, and wouldn’t shout himself.
An’ the rum thing was, he was so jolly well-liked.
He was ringer on Bolwarra three years runnin’.
One year Jim an’ me was late leavin’ Bolwarra.
The boss had some young horses he wanted broke
in, an’ we took the job on—so it was a fortnight
•or so after the other chaps that Jim an’ I started
for home ; he lived near Albury, an’ I lived any-
where. We hadn’t all our money with us, ’cause
I d sent nearly all mine down to me old mother
in Sydney for her to look after, an’ Jim always
sent most of his to his missus. Boss was away
when we was leavin’ Bolwarra, an’ they paid us our
balance in cash. Jim had a little over £2O, an’ I
had a tenner.
We got to Dixon Springs two nights after, an’
found no one but ourselves at Moss’s pub. All
our crowd had gone, an’ we heard afterwards
that nearly every blooming one of the Bolwarra
cheques had gone into Moss’s account that year.
He must have made tons of money.
\\e was both tired an’ was sworn off drink very
strict (Jim s doing, of course), an’ I had a brute of
a headache, caused by my fool of a mare havin’
taken me under a limb where there was room for
her but very little for me. I was that sick with it
I couldn t eat anything, so I had a cup of tea and
went off to roost. Jim stayed to have a feed an’
yarned'a bit with Moss.
Next mornin’ I was all right, an’ we made an
early start. They got us breakfast in good time,
an’—rather to our surprise—Moss had his man (who
was as big a blackguard as himself) get our horses
ready, an’ he was round near the bar door when
we come from havin’ breakfast, lightin’ our pipes
an’feelin’fair toffs. I paid up for the beds an’
feed, an’ was just goin’ out to get on my mare
when Jim says, “ Well, I’ll bother you to get out
that money for me, Moss.”
Now, I didn’t know Jim had left his money
with Moss overnight, but I wasn’t surprised.
Moss had a good fire-proof safe ; so it was a com-
mon thing for a shearer as happened to have a bit
of cash an’ wanted to save it, to hand it over to
Moss to be locked up until he was leaving.
‘; Money ?” he says. ‘ ‘ What money ? ”
“ Why, the money I gave you to lock up for me
last night,” Jim says.
Moss shook his head, very sad an’ pained-like.
“Well, I knew you had a few in last night,” he
says, slowly, “but I didn’t think you was as bad
as that. You never left any money with me, Cas-
sidy, me friend.”
Jim had gone pretty white. He brought his
fist down on the bar counter.
“I handed you twenty pounds in this bar last
night, an’ saw you lock it up in your safe,” he
says, speakin’ very quiet. “ An’ you know it.”
Moss laughed.
“Oh, come now, that’s a good ’un !” he says.
“Twenty ! Why don’t you make it fifty or a
hundred while you’re about it? Just as easy.
Where’s yer witness?”
Jim turned to me, his voice shakin’.
“Dave,” he says, “you know I had more’n
twenty quid. I gave it to him last night; every
penny of it except the odd silver. You can
search me, an’ if you find ten bob I’m a liar. He’s
got my money.”
“Look here,” I says, “this is a poor joke,
Moss. Ante up an’ let’s get a move on.”
“ You can get a move on as soon as you dashed
■well like,” says Moss gettin’ narsty. “ I’m full
up of you drunken swabs—tryin’ to take a man
down like this. Spielin’ don’t act in this part o’
the country. You’d better clear out, both of you.”
Mrs. Moss had come in an’ was lookin’ on. She
was a big bold-faced woman ; had been a barmaid
in a shanty in some minin’ districk when Moss
married her. She had a tongue like a wood-rasp.
“When these gents has finished their little
game, Saunders,” she says, “per’aps they’ll let
you come in to breakfast.”
Moss took a key out of his pocket an’ chucked
it over to his wife.
“Open the safe, Yi’let,” he says. “See if the
gentleman’s money’s there.”
The safe was in the bar parlor, an’ Mrs. Moss
opened it with a flourish. It was quite empty.
Not that Jim troubled to look at it. He turned
back to Moss. Next thing I saw him put his
hands on the counter an’ give a spring, an’ then I
give one meself, an’ pulled him back. Moss had
put his hand quickly into the cash-drawer, an’ we
was both lookin’ down a revolver.
He sang out, an’ his man Joe came runnin’ in,
an’ we saw immejit why he’d had him an’ our
horses so nice an’ handy.
“Now you git.” Moss says. “ I’m full o’ this,
an’ I swear I’ll shoot if yer lift a hand. Take me
down for twenty quid, will yer ? Let their horses
go, Vi’let.”
Mrs. Moss ran out on to the verandah, an’ the
next minute we heard her say, “ Cl—k,” an’ then
our horses’ hoofs on the road. They was good
horses, an’ there was only one thing to do—chivvy
after them. I started at once, an’ Jim just waited
to say one or two tilings to Moss, an’ then he
come after me. We had no show with Moss —he
held all the cyards.
I had a reg’lar job with Jim. He was nearly
cry in’ an’ half mad—as much with bein’ had so
simple as over the loss of the money, which was
bad enough. He’d have murdered Moss if he
could have got a show ; an’ when we caught the
horses —which wasn’t for three mile —he was all
for goin’ back an’ havin’ it out. I persuaded him
to come on—two men an’ a barker an’ a shrew’s
no fightin’odds for unarmed blokes. We told a
p’liceman about it in the first township we struck ;
but he didn’t think we had any chance of besting
Moss. If Jim had only had a witness it would
have been all right.
Well, we got over it —I will say I got over it
quicker’n Jim—an’ I lent him some money, an’ he
managed all right. I said good-bye to him in
Sydney—he was in a hurry to get home. Then I
drifted about for another year. Jim paid the
cash I’d lent him back to me old mother, but I
never set eyes on him again till we met at Bol-
warra next shearin’.
Mighty glad to see old Jim I was. We started
yarnin’, and, of course, we got on to Moss.
‘‘l stayed at his place coinin’ up,” Jim says—
which rather surprised me. “ No, we never said
anything about my twenty quid. He was as sweet
as old pie— met me with a happy smile. 0’ course,
I was with a lot o’ chaps. An’ when I come away
it was, ‘ See yer goin’ down, I s’pose, Mr. Cassidy.’
The hog ! ”
“I like his darned cheek,” I says. “ What did
you say ? 9
“I said, ‘Oh, per’aps.’”
‘‘ I wonder you go near the cow,” I says—an’ I
couldn’t make it out. Jim give a little smile to
himself, but he didn’t say anything more.
We told a lot o’ the chaps, an’ they was wild.
For two pins they’d have smashed up things at
Moss’s goin’back. But Jim was dead off any-
thin’ like that, an’ the only thing he’d make the
boys promise was that they wouldn’t get on the
tear at Dixon Springs. It was a hard thing—
but they all promised.
That was a big year at Bolwarra. Jim was
ringer—his third year—an’ he must have made
a thumpin’ cheque. I don’t know what ho sent
along to Mrs. Jim, but the night before we left he
drew somethin’ over 50 quid—an’ took it all in
gold, which he had arsked previous to have. I
arslced him why, an’ he laughed.
There was a no-end jolly crowd of us leavin’
Bolwarra, an’ I reckoned .Tim ’ud find it hard to
get the boys to keep their promise about not
drinkin’ when we got to Dixon Springs the second
night. However, there wasn’t no trouble —y’see,
the boys was that hot about the way Moss had
sold Jim, they was glad of the chance to do him
a bad turn. We got to Moss’s late in the evenin’,
and, when we’d fixed up our horses, Jim says :
“ Come into the bar ’arf a mo’, boys.”
We all marched in. Moss was standin' there
rubbin’ his hands.
‘‘Tea’ll be ready in a minute, gents,” he says.
“ All right,” says Jim. “By the way, Moss, I
want you to look after a little money for me to-
night. Lock it up, will yer? Fifty”—an’ he
counted it out slowly on the counter an’ watched
Moss, whose little eyes was a-shinin’, lock it up in
the safe. We looked on in surprise. It seemed
a rum thing for Jim to trust him again after
the way he’d been fooled larst year. However, he
had witnesses this time.
“There, that’s safe, ain’t it, boys?” says Jim,
as Moss put the key of the safe back into his
pocket. “ Come on to tea.” An’ we all went an’
had a feed. Moss buzzed round us like an old
red-haired blowfly, an’ Jim was just as affable to
him as any bloke could be, jokin’ with him an’
makin’ us die laughin’ at the things he said. But
I can raise a grin now, thinkin’ of Moss’s face
when the whole lot of us trooped off to bed after a
smoke, without so much as glancin’ at the bar.
His jor just dropped.
None of us was in a hurry to get up next day.
When I went out to the stables, along o’ some o’
the other chaps, there was old Jim, singin’ softly
to himself an’ brushin’ down his inare. He put
the saddle on her, an’ was just gii-i '■m’ it up, when
he stopped an’arsked me if I'd swop saddles for
the day. I had a new-fangled military saddle as
he had a fancy to try. O’ course I says yes, an’
he changed the saddles and we got the horses
ready. Jim singin’ all the time, “There is a
happy land.”
“ You’re blooming cheerful,” I says.
“ Yairs, ” he says.
All the chaps was ready for the road before
breakfast, an’ after we had our feed we was all
in the bar settlin’-up—Moss lookin’ as black as a
thunder-cloud —when old Jim came in an’ arsked
Moss for his money.
“ Wha-at ? ” says Moss.
“ My money,” Jim says.
“ What are yer dreaming about ? —yer money ? ”
Moss snarls.
All the chaps got near, an’ yer heard a queer
little growl go round the bar. It was a bit too
barefaced—two years runnin’.
Jim laughs, puzzled-like.
“ Why, the fifty quid I gave yer larst night,”
he says, patient, as if he knew Moss was only
tryin’ to pull his leg. “ Come on, old man—
time’s precious.” .
We was all crowdin’ round, an’ Moss went a
dirty yellow, but he stuck out.
“Git along with yer,” he says. “Who are ye
tryin’ to take down now. Jim Cassidy? I ”
At that moment long Tom Pullinger broke in :
“D’yer mean to say he never give yer that
fifty?” he arsks. “Why, yer fool, the whole
crowd of us saw him ! ”
“ I know yer did,” Moss says. “O’ course he
give it to me. But I give it back to him before
breakfast this mornin’! ”
“Well, that’s a good’un!” Jim says, and he
burst out laughin’. “Come on, Moss, don’t be a
fool. I’m not on me own this time—yer don’t fool
me two years!” He leaned forward. “ Where’s
yer witness, Moss ? ”
Moss was holdin’ on to the counter, the pieksher
of disgust.
“You low pig!” he says. “I give yer that
fifty first thing this mornin’. Don’t yer remember
cornin’ in, an’ gittin’ a drink, an’ arskin’ for it,
an’ ” ——
“Oh, git out!” Jim says, beginnin’ to lose his
temper. “I’m chock-a-block o’ you, Moss —
surely you got enough out o’ me larst year.
Hand over my money, or I’ll break your neck ! ”
The boys began to growl louder and edge up.
I remembered Moss’s revolver of the year before,
so I slipped behind the counter and shoved my
knee against the cash-drawer —an’ a lovely look T
got off Moss for me kind action. He was shakin’,
an’ couldn’t get his words out.
“ Pay up, you dog ! ” some of the chaps called
out.
“ He’s got it now ! ” says Moss.
“Well, search me,” says Jim, impatiently;
“p’rhaps that’ll convince him.”
The chaps didn’t like it, but just for form’s
sake they went through Jim—boots ’n’ all. Moss
come round an’ took a hand in the searchin’, an’
all they found was thirteen bob an’ his youngest
kid’s photo. Then Moss slipped outside an’ had
a squint over Jim’s mare, old Black Polly, as
everyone knew —unsaddled her, an’ even hunted
in her mane an’ tail. By that time the chaps was
fair mad, an’ long Tom Pullinger took Moss by
the scruff of the neck and hustled him into the
bar parlor.
“Now you makeup your mind, you thievin’,
low-lived Scotch Jew,” he says. “ Stop yer game
an’ pay up ole Jim’s money, or we ll smash yer
place into post an’ rails ! ”
“Let’s do it now!” sang out someone. The
chaps was willin’ enough, an’ some started flickin’
bottles off the bar shelves with their whips. Mrs.
Moss rushed in screeehin’, an’ flew at the chap
lioldin’ her Saunders—but I caught her an’ held
her tight, f’r fear she might hurt herself. She
was a mass of woman was Vi’let !
Moss caved in suddenly.
“Let me go,” he says, “I’ll pay him—curse
him ! ”
Tom Pullinger lets him go, and he unlocks the
safe. You should have heard the howl that went
up! There was Jim’s little bag of sov’rins, all
sweet an’ ’andy on the top shelf ! For a moment
I thought the boys ’ud do for Moss, they was that
furious—-they hustled round him, cursin’, an’ him
screamin’ out that he’d paid Jim in notes already.
Long Tom Pullinger knocked him down at that,
an’then Jim says : “Oh, let him alone—what do
I care, so long as I’ve got the money!” So we
leaves Saunders Moss a-lyin’ on the floor an’
Vi’let swearing at us like a bulloeky across the
prostrite form, an’ we makes tracks.
“Jim’s road an’mine branched off from the
other boys’ that afternoon ; so we says good-bye at
a bit of a shanty where Jim shouted all round
very free an’ handsome, an’ thanked all the chaps
for backin’ him up.
A few miles along, Jim says suddenly :
“ D’you mind if we change the saddles now.
Dave ? ”
“Not a bit,” I says.
So we got down an’ slipped off the saddles. Jim
put mine on my mare, an’ slung his own on Black
Polly. He lifted up the flap on the off side. There
was a little pocket fixed under it very cunnin’, an'
he put his hand in an’ took out a little parcel, an’
opened it out on the saddle, me watcliin’ him.
I gaped. There was ever so many notes !
Jim counted ’em carefully. “Fifty,” he says
—an’ grins at me.
“My bloomin’ colonial ! ” I says.
He grins more.
“There’s twenty,” he says, countin’ ’em out.
“That’s larst year,” an’ he shoved ’em in his
pocket. “ An’ there’s thirty, an’ half o’ that’s
fifteen—an’ that’s yours, Dave.” He stuck the
notes into my hand.
“ Well Pm damned ! ” I says, bewildered-like.
“Then you did...before breakfast...?”
“ Yairs,” he says.
BOHEE.
Although Maoriland is fairly bubbling
over with political organisations of all sorts and
hues, another has bobbed up serenely, the
Workers’ Political Association. The new body
wants a State ammunition factory started, State
saw-mills and timber supply depots, State smelt-
ing works, State ferry service between the two
islands, State trawling plants to supply muni-
cipal fish markets, and State flour mills. Also,
it wants the B.N.Z. to be converted into a State
Bank with sole right of note issue ; the extension
of the Shearers’ Accommodation Act to agricul-
tural workers ; immediate stoppage of the sale of
State lands; periodical re-adjustment of rent of all
lands hereafter leased from the State; and no
future leases to be for more than GO years. Re-
garding old-age pensions, the new organisation
desires the pensions to begin at the age of 60, in-
stead of 65.


>
A Sufferer for 15 Years
"C~*T ISE doctors treat headaches as a symptom only, not as a disease.
YY An aching head is proof of the disorder of some other organ —
" * generally 'the stomach or liver. Bile Beans are so successful in
curino- headaches, because they remove the root cause, by correcting and
mi
stimulating the liver and digestive sys-
tem. “For the past 15 years or more
I have been a martyr to painful head-
aches, sickness, and biliousness in all
forms,” says Mr. T. Reece, of 28 Clay-
ton-street, Ballarat. “ I had consulted
nearly all the doctors in Ballarat, but
they certainly did not seem to under-
stand my case. They were baffled, be-
cause I never smoke, drink, or keep late
hours. In short, not one of them did
me any good at all, and one medical
man went so far as to say that I would
have to put up with the trouble, and
that there was no cure for me at all.
At last I was recommended to try Bile
Beans for Biliousness, and about two
months ago I purchased a box. I have much pleasure in saying that
since that time I have enjoyed perfect health, and have no objection, in
the interests of humanity, to your publishing this.”
BILE BEANS have a WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION as a PROVED CURE in cases
of BILIOUSNESS, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, STOMACH TROUBLES, WN-
STIPATION, PILES, DEBILITY, FEMALE WEAKNESSES, NERVOUSNESS,
BAD BLOOD,
BAD BREATH,
ANAEMIA, DIS-
TURBED SLEEP,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, and,
by giving tone to
the system, will
ward off COUGHS,
COLDS, and IN-
FLUENZA. Ob-
tainable generally
at 1/14, or 2/9
LARGE BOX (con-
tains three times
the 1/1 size).
ti
o
1
WOR
m
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
Since the Cities are the Cities.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FOOLS can parrot-cry the prophet when the
proof is close at hand
And the blind cm see the danger when
the foe is in the land !
Truth was never cynicism, death or ruin’s not a
joke,
“ Told-you-so ” is not a warning—Patriotism
not a croak.
Blame will aid no man nor country when the dark
days come at last—
As with men so with a nation, and the Warning
time is past.
Our great sins were of omission, and the dogs of
war are loosed —
And we all must stand together when those sins
come home to roost.
Since the cities are the cities and shall stand for
evermore,
Let us justify our being, be it peace or be it war.
For because we are the townsfolk, and have never
ridden far,
Shall we call the bush to aid us that has made
us what we are ?
Westward went our brothers, fighting distance,
drought, and loneliness
While we lived in light and comfort knowing
nothing of distress.
We who never shared the hardships when the
sunset led them on,
Now’s our time, O street-bred people, with our
faces to the dawn !
They have conquered with the cross-cut and the
wedges and the maul,
With the spade and axe and mattock and the
saddle-packs and all,
They have mighty work before them for the sake
of you and me—
Let us stand up to our duty ! We’re the Rear-
guard by the Sea.
Days of gibes at “street-bred people” by the
street-bred bards are done—
Shall the man who lays the yard-stick never learn
to lay the gun ?
Shall the crouched type-writer toiling for his
home in days like these
Touch the button the less firmly when we play on
other keys ?
We have seen in many countries what the street-
bred men can do—
In the desert, scrub and jungle they were men
who battled through !
Human weeds of grand endurance winning where
the strong men quailed,
Pigeon-chested leaders leading on where beef-born
courage failed.
Street-bred people down the ages—beggars, mobs
and democrats—
Fought through many desperate sieges (fought on
horseflesh, dogs and rats)
When their own cowed country failed them, then
the city soul was proved—
“ Street-bred people ” died in thousands for the
cities that they loved.
In the days when strength was needed—days of
pike and axe and sword—
Daylight found the peaceful burghers ready, keep-
ing watch and ward.
Clerks and tailors fought like heroes at the gates
and in the trench— •
(Even Falstaff brought his herrings with some
slaughter through the French).
Every man should have a cottage and a garden to
defend,
But the “ should : be” is for ever—cities stand
until the end.
Every farmer has a country that he loves when
war-drums roll—
Every clerk may have a city that he loves with heart
and sold.
Fat or lean, we all are sinners—lean or fat we al;
would be;
High or low or lean or fatted, ’tis fo» Nationality.
It will be till all is ended, as it was since al:
began—
’Tis the head and not the feathers ! ’tis the hear!
and not the “ man ’’ !
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Turning of the Worm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MRS. JAMES’ creamy cheeks were
flushed pink, and her pretty mouth wore
a stubborn expression. Mr. Winter’s
shifty eyes looked first at her and then round at
the green trees, and between many “look heres”
and “my dearchilds” he strove to tell her that
the thing was impossible. Mrs. James fixed her
baby blue eyes on his, and her mouth grew less
sulky and more pouty. “ I don’t care,” she said ;
“ if she doesn’t apologise I’ll never speak to you
again. ”
“ She will never do it. We are m her hands—
the thing is impossible,” Mr. Winter once more
assured her.
* * * *
Mrs. Winter was an unimportant woman, who
had a baby every year and dressed dowdily.
There was a time when she was called graceful
and rather pretty, but that was before Mr. and
Mrs. James came to live in the house by the river,
and Mr. Winter took to spending his evenings
out. People called on her because she was
decently connected, but they found her dull. She
whined so about the children and the servants;
also she loved her husband, which was absurd of
her under the circumstances.
In vain her friends strove to open her eyes.
Her obstinacy annoyed them. Even her nurse-
girl had remarked casually that she had seen Mr.
Winter and Mrs. James in the park together-
remarked it so often that it seemed less casual
than spiteful.
What Mrs. Winter wanted most at, this time
was to visit her people. She was tired, poor soul,
of bringing cranky babies into the world—tired ot
incompetent servants, and most tired of the things
her friends told her about the man she had
married. „
She thought his business must be failing. He
did not see his way clear to let her go —in fact, he
simply couldn’t afford it. She reckoned up the
cash, and found the trip could be made for a few
pounds. She would “do up” her black hat, and
with the new blouse she was making, her clothes
would answer. But Mr. Winter remained obdu-
rate, and as he rose to go out he assured her the
thing was impossible. Just what he told Mrs.
James in the park, you remember, but that was
afterwards.
* * » *
On an afternoon, Mr. Winter’s married sister,
who really liked Mrs. Winter, and altogether dis-
approved of her own brother, called in amiable
mood. After hearing Mrs. Winter’s tale of woe,
and listening impatiently to her long, quivering
sighs and her plaintive talk about the black hat
and the new blouse, she found it impossible to
contain herself.
“If you’ve the spirit of an insect, my dear
Mary, you will be away before the end of the
week, and if you ever mention that black hat
again, which ought to be in the dustbin, or that
miserable mercerised blouse, you deserve nothing
but contempt. Go to the park to-morrow at 10,
or the next morning, or the morning after that —
oh, hang the children—and see for yourself. And
don’t leave this town with a penny under £5O.
And, Mary, when you get away, liven up. Your
happiness is gone for the present; win what you
can of it back. Go in for a course of skin treat-
ment. Get some decent gowns. Be naughty,
even—smoke cigarettes, or anything that’s up-to-
date, and don't have babies every 12 months.
And so it came about that a rather bewildered
Mrs. Winter walked aimlessly next morning into
the park, and in a secluded corner stumbled on
Mr. Winter, fastening something bright and
sparkling on Mrs. James’ dainty wrist. The
smiling baby-face was raised to his, and, as Mary
watched, Mr. Winter bent and kissed the sofo
lips with a lover’s kiss.
Mrs. Winter felt a quick stopping of the breath,
an instant’s nausea, and then insects—millions of
them—tearing all over her. Mr. Winter rose
quickly to his feet and stuttered something about
having picked up a trinket of Mrs. James’. Mrs.
James sat still, but looked interested.
It was a transformed Mary who spoke—a
woman with head thrown back and steely eyes, a
woman on her mettle, who looked down tho
insolent blue eyes of her rival—a masterful, con-
temptuous Mary, who ordered the dainty bundle
of muslin home to her husband and children, and
shut Mr. Winter’s lips with cutting words.
“No more lies, I beg of you. Come with me, I
have something to say.” And he went —her hero
—like a whipped cur.
Mrs. Winter accompanied Mr. Winter to his
office and got a cheque for £lOO. Next day she
left to visit her friends, leaving her babies behind
her. And it was some days after that when Mrs.
James sulkily demanded an apology for the words
used to her that day in the park, and because
that apology was not forthcoming Mrs. James
kept her word, looked out for fresh conquests,
and let Mary’s husband severely alone.
Some three months later Mr. Winter waited on
the wharf, rather nervously, for the arrival of the
Sydney boat and his wife ; and welcomed sheep
ishly a tall, smart-looking woman, who greeted
him patronisingly, but graciously—a woman with
a pretty color in her cheeks and glossy waved
hair, who talked brightly to a good-looking and
obviously admiring fellow-passenger.
And it was thus Mrs. Winter came into her own
again, and won back her husband’s allegiance.
But the episode has robbed her name of its fitting-
ness, and on Mary’s rejuvenated features rests a
lightly contemptuous expression, where once there
was only sweetness.
GIP.
Reginald.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Reginald aftermath bowed his
matted head over a table in the Ver-
micelli Caffi and wept. Reginald was
a bard of the Old Bohemian breed. He nourished
his tall, drooping body on spaghetti, salmi, and
risotto, and his free but fractured soul on cheap,
red, fortified wine—also on beer, rum, and hot gin
when the spirit moved.
Reginald was born out of his time, and he
wasn’t understood. Cast into a cold, harsh epoch,
with no appreciation for the Beautiful as repre-
sented by Reginald, he gave the Philistine world
the cynical shrug and bitter smile, and took refuge
in alcohol. Reginald’s dreamy lyricsoverhis “Lost
Loves of Yesteryear” (he always lost them), the
“Graveyard by the Saltwater River ” (where he
longed to dream again), and other sweet, mournful
themes of things dead and buried and forgotten,
had melted thestony heart of the editor of the Land
Agents’ Advertiser. The editor thought that a
poet of Reginald's fine feeling for the buried past
would add “tone” to the paper, and put his
readers into chastened mood for the advertise-
ments. He hired the Poet of the Tomb as
descriptive writer at so much a week.
Reginald smiled with lofty cynicism and drew
his first week’s screw in advance. Reginald began
on the Springvale Necropolis, and moved his
readers to tears. Elated by his success, he took a
week’s holiday and mused. When he had re-
covered by the want-of-gold cure, he essayed his
second prose fantasy. It was beautiful, but it
didn’t sell the goods. The harsh editor then
demanded something more practical from Regi-
nald—a mundane, advertising subject, but to be
treated in fragrant, poetical style. He was
turned loose on a new boiling-down works.
The poet shuddered, but he went through
bravely. He did a tannery, a soap-works, a
wool-store, an abattoirs, and a bone-mill. He
quivered, but stuck. Then the bard’s fine soul
rebelled. The editor required a soul-stirring
description of a big baths emporium, and re-
quested Reginald to test all the processes—
slipper, spray, hot, shower, swimming, Turkish,
Russian, Japanese baths —all kinds of baths,
more baths than Reginald had seen during all
his previous career. The noble soul of the poet
rose in protest, and he resigned. Next week he
saw in the paper a two-column article on a new
brewery, with realistic details. That would have
been his next job. So the Poet Aftermath bowed
his shaggy locks over a large pewter and wept.
L.E.


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
m
m
%
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in tlie West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I had to give up work and
: eek medical advice, which is
very expensive there. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Reading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” Wm. Thomp-
son, Hindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life’s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives, strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYER & CO., LoweU, Mass., U. S. A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER'S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer's Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
l&i
©
4®
dsf
r|ws is a message
I to Men. To men
who would like to
feel like men, to look like
me«, and act like men.
This is to men who lack
courage, whose nerves are shaken,
whose brains are muddled, ideas con-
fused, sleep restless, confidence gone;
whose spirits are low and easily de-
pressed ; who are backward—hesi-
tating, unable to venture because they
are afraid of failure ; who want some-
body to decide for them ; who are
weak, puny, restless. It is to men who
have part of all of these symptoms, and
want new life, new force, new vigor.
We offer it all to you in our wonderful
dr. McLaughlin s
ELECTRIC BELT
It cures men so that they, stay cured.
It will cure you, if you give it, a trial
Guaranteed in every case undertaken.
It cures permanently and absolutely.
It pumps a warm soothing current of
new nerve life into your body for hours
II
t.
I
i
1
i
afc a time, while you sleep; AND WILL CURE ANY CASE
J.HAI EXISTS of Broken-down Nerves, Weak Back, Varicocele, Sciatica,
Rheumatism, Stomach, or Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Indigestion,
Insomnia, General Debility, and all Weakness of Men or Women.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
READ this letter..
n „_ “u t , FULLERTON, N.S.W.
iriont-rie Roirsfo-i, »hoiigh I havetaken great quantities of drugs, and hare used other so-called'
W^ bad a hout destroyed my faith in advertised remedies) without
a inn to say thatyour Belt fulfilled every claim you made for it. I had
wWh T h,, r?™ hl L e ff°T pa,ns ln the hack, shoulders, and hips, but lam now well and strong,
IrhnVp as I afwa/J^u r Beit alone to thank. I advise everyone I know to be suffering to seek your
advice, as js feel certain m assuring them that you will give an honest and candid opinion. 1
v™™ rnwv m smith I
Yours faithfully,
JOHN M. SMITH.
FREE ADVICE and CONSULTATION.
T , book, in which we describe our wonderful Btlh
P re J? a *d a,l d under cover upon receipt of your request. We will
f 4? _ agnosis by post, or, if you can call, our Specialists will advise you—
tv Write for our book or call at our office at your earliest
convenience. Do not delay.
The Dr. MeLaughlin Co.,
90 William St. r Perth, W.A.
IOOW. Market St.,
SYDNEY.
WILLIAM PHAAJ.E* CftAWPOR*
2
A
mi
m
s**s
3sn 0
VII
a xq\]
°1
X^xreVj
Xja A
HERE IJP A * *
Field Glass * 30s,
J»§? THAT IS BUILT FOR
♦ HARD SERVICE. . . .
It has a range of 4 miles, is well-made, and optically
correct.
Has nickel tubes and mounts, covered in tan
leather. Complete with case and strap, post free
to any address for 3Os.
We import these fine glasses direct from the maker.
The middlemen’s profits are all cut out. That is why
we can oiler so good a glass at so low a price. If
not exactly as represented we will cheerfully refund
your money.
You had better send for one now. A reliable field
glass is a useful tiling to have bj you.
Other field glasses and all optical goods are fully
described in our new booklet, entitled “ The Oare of
the Eyes.” Let us send you a copy—post free.
ANGUS & COOTE
"The Store where Quality Counts,”
492-4 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
u
e Trail of the True
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Atmually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney*
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins fit..
I DR. MA.RTIKT, M.D., Consulting
Physician, &c.
MEN a*u WOMEN SUF-
FERERS. if you have failed
ind relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of /ten and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
men
a No
wo me n
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex=
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
Judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Cienito Urinary Diseases,
lie has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
wnM^ P T me!^ < ?!7 C l f DR ' MAR T m ’ S £ r eat~work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN , Contains U Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day tor it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PB.Cc 7,6; or if vou
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for*3s.
This magnificent medical work contains juices Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 103 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY
(Please Mention this paper when writing*.)


Tn
Tennis Players and Clubs.
Siazenger’s Oovarod 1305
Championship Temls Balls
14s. psr dozen.
Postage in N.S.W. Is. esitra,
Perdriau Rubber Co.^i
270 George St., Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. AsUtina, Nervous Cough r,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppresaion immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT A Co’s INDIAN CIGAIt-
ETTES. Bold, by all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY.
AM MATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark.
Mbs
or
M AX
'^•o
Sr,
mm
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Showrooms re-arranged with additional cases
and entrance fitted with Electric Elevator.
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Wool'qpf SEND TO
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Mawager.
HARDY’S
sdf
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Brill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SVDNEY.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No letter Pump
than the ‘KNOWLES.’”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., «<,.
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents : Bbvan and Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTER’S
R9B PILLS ■■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR • .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINBBESTRE Zi TRUMAN,
n, OLD KINT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
gicßeoaoaaßßo
'
Fred Metters & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S. Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia,
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Rundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Lockwood Bros Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are jiw
BIST.
*
Sold\
by
all first-
cla a stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 i 2-BI.ADE'.
“ PA MPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - • - 2/6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
s-sr jo jlv jej-sr.
sd
For Draining Mine Shafts, Flooded Galleries and Levels, there is nothing equal to
s? PULSOIKETER STEAM PVMP
it has no exhaust steam to be disposed of; needs no special foundation, but may be swung from
a beam or tripod, and raised cr lowered as occasion demands without interrupting its operation.
Requires neither engine, belt, oil, or packing—just a steam pipe—easy to instai, easy to operate.
Write for Catalogue. IN FACT. ITS AN IDEAL MINE PUMP.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne,
My vtvts for Puisometer
Engineering Co., England.
